THEODORE ROOSEVELT

AN INTIMATE BIOGRAPHY

BY

WILLIAM ROSCOE THAYER

1919

PREFACE

In finishing the correction of the last proofs of this sketch, I perceive that some of those
who read it may suppose that I planned to write a deliberate eulogy of Theodore Roosevelt.
This is not true. I knew him for forty years, but I never followed his political leadership.
Our political differences, however, never lessened our personal friendship. Sometimes long
intervals elapsed between our meetings, but when we met it was always with the same intimacy,
and when we wrote it was with the same candor. I count it fortunate for me that during the
last ten years of his life, I was thrown more with Roosevelt than during all the earlier period;
and so I was able to observe him, to know his motives, and to study his character during the
chief crises of his later career, when what he thought and did became an integral part of the
development of the United States.

After the outbreak of the World War, in 1914, he and I thought alike, and if I mistake not,
this closing phase of his life will come more and more to be revered by his countrymen as an
example of the highest patriotism and courage. Regardless of popular lukewarmness at the start,
and of persistent official thwarting throughout, he roused the conscience of the nation to
a sense of its duty and of its honor. What gratitude can repay one who rouses the con science
of a nation? Roosevelt sacrificed his life for patriotism as surely as if he had died leading
a charge in the Battle of the Marne.

The Great War has thrown all that went before it out of perspective. We can never see the events
of the preceding half-century in the same light in which we saw them when they were fresh.
Instinctively we appraise them, and the men through whom they came to pass, by their relation
to the catastrophe. Did they lead up to it consciously or un consciously? And as we judge the
outcome of the war, our views of men take on changed complexions. The war, as it appears now,
was the culmination of three different world-movements; it destroyed the attempt of German
Imperialism to conquer the world and to rivet upon it a Prussian military despotism. Next,
it set up Democracy as the ideal for all peoples to live by. Finally, it revealed that the
economic, industrial, social, and moral concerns of men are deeper than the political. When
I came to review Roosevelt's career consecutively, for the purpose of this biography, I saw
that many of his acts and policies, which had been misunderstood or misjudged at the time,
were all the inevitable expressions of the principle which was the master-motive of his life.
What we had imagined to be shrewd devices for winning a partisan advantage, or for overthrowing
a political adversary, or for gratifying his personal ambition, had a nobler source. I do not
mean to imply that Roosevelt, who was a most adroit politician, did not employ with terrific
effect the means accepted as honorable in political fighting. So did Abraham Lincoln, who also,
as a great Opportunist, was both a powerful and a shrewd political fighter, but pledged to
Righteousness. It seems now tragic, but inevitable, that Roosevelt, after beginning and carrying
forward the war for the reconciliation between Capital and Labor, should have been sacrificed
by the Republican Machine, for that Machine was a special organ of Capital, by which Capital
made and administered the laws of the States and of the Nation. But Roosevelt's struggle was
not in vain; before he died, many of those who worked for his downfall in 1912 were looking
up to him as the natural leader of the country, in the new dangers which encompassed it. "Had
he lived," said a very eminent man who had done more than any other to defeat him, "he would
have been the unanimous candidate of the Republicans in 1920." Time brings its revenges swiftly.
As I write these lines, it is not Capital, but overweening Labor which makes its truculent
demands on the Administration at Washington, which it has already intimidated. Well may we
exclaim, "Oh, for the courage of Roosevelt!" And whenever the country shall be in great anxiety
or in direct peril from the cowardice of those who have sworn to defend its welfare and its
integrity, that cry shall rise to the lips of true Americans.

Although I have purposely brought out what I believe to be the most significant parts of Roosevelt's
character and public life, I have not wished to be uncritical. I have suppressed nothing. Fortunately
for his friends, the two libel suits which he went through in his later years, subjected him
to a microscopic scrutiny, both as to his personal and his political life. All the efforts
of very able lawyers, and of clever and unscrupulous enemies to undermine him, failed; and
henceforth his advocates may rest on the verdicts given by two separate courts. As for the
great political acts of his official career, Time has forestalled eulogy. Does any one now
defend selling liquor to children and converting them into precocious drunkards? Does any one
defend sweat-shops, or the manufacture of cigars under worse than unsanitary conditions? Which
of the packers, who protested against the Meat Inspection Bill, would care to have his name
made public; and which of the lawyers and of the accomplices in the lobby and in Congress would
care to have it known that he used every means, fair and foul, to prevent depriving the packers
of the privilege of canning bad meat for Americans, although foreigners insisted that the canned
meat which they bought should be whole some and inspected? Does any American now doubt the
wisdom and justice of conserving the natural re sources, of saving our forests and our mineral
sup plies, and of controlling the watershed from which flows the water-supply of entire States?

These things are no longer in the field of debate. They are accepted just as the railroad and
the telegraph are accepted. But each in its time was a novelty, a reform, and to secure its
acceptance by the American people and its sanction in the statute book, required the zeal,
the energy, the courage of one man- -Theodore Roosevelt. He had many helpers, but he was the
indispensable backer and accomplisher. When, therefore, I have commended him for these great
achievements, I have but echoed what is now common opinion.

A contemporary can never judge as the historian a hundred years after the fact judges, but
the contemporary view has also its place, and it may be really nearer to the living truth than
is the conclusion formed when the past is cold and remote and the actors are dead long ago.
So a friend's outlined portrait, though obviously not impartial, must be nearer the truth than
an enemy's can be--for the enemy is not impartial either. We have fallen too much into the
habit of imagining that only hostile critics tell the truth.

I wish to express my gratitude to many persons who have assisted me in my work. First of all,
to Mrs. Roosevelt, for permission to use various letters. Next, to President Roosevelt's sisters,
Mrs. William S. Cowles and Mrs. Douglas Robinson, for invaluable information. Equally kind
have been many of Roosevelt's associates in Government and in political affairs: President
William H. Taft, former Secretary of War; Senator Henry Cabot Lodge; Senator Elihu Root and
Colonel Robert Bacon, former Secretaries of State; Hon. Charles J. Bonaparte, former Attorney-General;
Hon. George B. Cortelyou, former Secretary of the Interior; Hon. Gifford Pinchot, of the National
Forest Service; Hon. James R. Garfield, former Commissioner of Commerce.

Also to Lord Bryce and the late Sir Cecil Spring-Rice, British Ambassadors at Washington; to
Hon. George W. Wickersham, Attorney-General under President Taft; to Mr. Nicholas Roosevelt
and Mr. Charles P. Curtis, Jr.; to Hon. Albert J. Beveridge, ex-Senator; to Mr. James T. Williams,
Jr.; to Dr. Alexander Lambert; to Hon. James M. Beck; to Major George H. Putnam; to Professor
Albert Bushnell Hart; to Hon. Charles S. Bird; to Mrs. George von. L. Meyer and Mrs. Curtis
Guild; to Mr. Hermann Hagedorn; to Mr. James G. King, Jr.; to Dean William D. Lewis; to Hon.
Regis H. Post; to Hon. William Phillips, Assistant Secretary of State; to Mr. Richard Trimble;
to Mr. John Woodbury; to Gov. Charles E. Hughes; to Mr. Louis A. Coolidge; to Hon. F. D. Roosevelt,
Assistant Secretary of the Navy; to Judge Robert Grant; to Mr. James Ford Rhodes; to Hon. W.
Cameron Forbes.

I am under especial obligation to Hon. Charles G. Washburn, ex-Congressman, whose book, "Theodore
Roosevelt: The Logic of his Career," I have consulted freely and commend as the best analysis
I have seen of Roosevelt's political character. I wish also to thank the publishers and authors
of books by or about Roosevelt for permission to use their works. These are Houghton Mifflin
Co.; G. P. Putnam's Sons; The Outlook Co.; The Macmillan Co.

To Mr. Ferris Greenslet, whose fine critical taste I have often drawn upon; and Mr. George
B. Ives, who has prepared the Index; and to Miss Alice Wyman, my secretary, my obligation is
profound.

W. R. T. August 10, 1919

CONTENTS

I. ORIGINS AND YOUTH II. BREAKING INTO POLITICS III. AT THE FIRST CROSSROADS IV. NATURE THE
HEALER V. BACK TO THE EAST AND LITERATURE VI. APPLYING MORALS TO POLITICS VII. THE ROUGH RIDER
VIII. GOVERNOR OF NEW YORK--VICE-PRESIDENT IX. PRESIDENT X. THE WORLD WHICH ROOSEVELT CONFRONTED
XI. ROOSEVELT'S FOREIGN POLICY XII. THE GREAT CRUSADE AT HOME XIII. THE TWO ROOSEVELTS XIV.
THE PRESIDENT AND THE KAISER XV. ROOSEVELT AND CONGRESS XVI. THE SQUARE DEAL IN ACTION XVII.
ROOSEVELT AT HOME XVIII. HITS AND MISSES XIX. CHOOSING HIS SUCCESSOR XX. WORLD HONORS XXI.
WHICH WAS THE REPUBLICAN PARTY? XXII. THE TWO CONVENTIONS XXIII. THE BRAZILIAN ORDEAL XXIV.
PROMETHEUS BOUND XXV. PROMETHEUS UNBOUND

ABBREVIATIONS

Autobiography = "Theodore Roosevelt: An Autobiography." Macmillan Co.; New York, 1914.

*** The titles of other books by Mr. Roosevelt are given without his name as they occur in
the footnotes.

Leupp = Francis E. Leupp: "The Man Roosevelt." D. Appleton & Co.; New York, 1904.

Lewis = Wm. Draper Lewis: "The Life of Theodore Roosevelt." John C. Winston Co.; Philadelphia,
1919.

Morgan = James Morgan: "Theodore Roosevelt; The Boy and the Man." Macmillan Co., new ed., 1919.

Ogg = Frederic A.Ogg: "National Progress, 1907-1917." American Nation Series. Harper& Bros.;
New York, 1918.

Riis = Jacob A. Riis: "Theodore Roosevelt; the Citizen." Outlook Co.; New York, 1904.

Washburn = Charles G. Washburn: "Theodore Roosevelt; The Logic of His Career." Houghton Mifflin
Co., 1916.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

CHAPTER I. ORIGINS AND YOUTH

Nothing better illustrates the elasticity of American democratic life than the fact that within
a span of forty years Abraham Lincoln and Theodore Roosevelt were Presidents of the United
States. Two men more unlike in origin, in training, and in opportunity, could hardly be found.

Lincoln came from an incompetent Kentuckian father, a pioneer without the pioneer's spirit
of enterprise and push; he lacked schooling; he had barely the necessaries of life measured
even by the standards of the Border; his companions were rough frontier wastrels, many of whom
had either been, or might easily become, ruffians. The books on which he fed his young mind
were very few, not more than five or six, but they were the best. And yet in spite of these
handicaps, Abraham Lincoln rose to be the leader and example of the American Nation during
its most perilous crisis, and the ideal Democrat of the nineteenth century.

Theodore Roosevelt, on the contrary, was born in New York City, enjoyed every advantage in
education and training; his family had been for many generations respected in the city; his
father was cultivated and had distinction as a citizen, who devoted his wealth and his energies
to serving his fellow men. But, just as incredible adversity could not crush Abraham Lincoln,
so lavish prosperity could not keep down or spoil Theodore Roosevelt. * For over a hundred
years the Roosevelts continued to be typical Dutch burghers in a hard-working, God-fearing,
stolid Dutch way, each leaving to his son a little more than he had inherited. During the Revolution,
some of the family were in the Continental Army, but they won no high honors, and some of them
sat in the Congresses of that generation--sat, and were honest, but did not shine. Theodore's
great-grandfather seems to have amassed what was regarded in those days as a large fortune.

* Autobiography, 1.

His grandfather, Cornelius Van Schaack Roosevelt, a glass importer and banker, added to his
inheritance, but was more than a mere money-maker.

His son Theodore, born in 1831, was the father of the President. Inheriting sufficient means
to live in great comfort, not to say in luxury, he nevertheless engaged in business; but he
had a high sense of the obligation which wealth lays on its possessors. And so, instead of
wasting his life in merely heaping up dollars, he dedicated it to spending wisely and generously
those which he had. There was nothing puritanical, however, in his way of living. He enjoyed
the normal, healthy pleasures of his station. He drove his coach and four and was counted one
of the best whips in New York. Taking his paternal responsibilities seriously, he implanted
in his children lively respect for discipline and duty; but he kept very near to their affection,
so that he remained throughout their childhood, and after they grew up, their most intimate friend.

What finer tribute could a son pay than this which follows?

Thus the President, writing nearly forty years after his father's death. His mother was Martha
Bulloch, a member of an old Southern family, one of her ancestors having been the first Governor
of Georgia. During the Civil War, while Mr. Roosevelt was busy raising regiments, supporting
the Sanitary Commission, and doing whatever a non-combatant patriot could do to uphold the
Union, Mrs. Roosevelt's heart allegiance went with the South, and to the end of her life she
was never "reconstructed." But this conflict of loyalties caused no discord in the Roosevelt
family circle. Her two brothers served in the Confederate Navy. One of them, James Bulloch,
"a veritable Colonel Newcome," was an admiral and directed the construction of the privateer
Alabama. The other, Irvine, a midshipman on that vessel, fired the last gun in its fight with
the Kearsarge before the Alabama sank. After the war both of them lived in Liverpool and "Uncle
Jimmy" became a rabid Tory.

Theodore Roosevelt grew up to be not only a stanch but an uncompromising believer in the Union
Cause; but the fact that his parents came from the North and from the South, and that, from
his earliest memory, the Southern kindred were held in affection in his home, must have helped
him towards that non-sectional, all-American point of view which was the cornerstone of his
patriotic creed.

The Roosevelt house was situated at No. 28 East Twentieth Street, New York City, and there
Theodore was born on October 27, 1858. He passed his boyhood amid the most wholesome family
life. Besides his brother Elliott and two sisters, as his Uncle Robert lived next door, there
were cousins to play with and a numerous kindred to form the background of his young life.
He was, fortunately, not precocious, for the infant prodigies of seven, who become the amazing
omniscients of twenty-three, are seldom heard of at thirty. He learned very early to read,
and his sisters remember that when he was still in starched white petticoats, with a curl carefully
poised on top of his head, he went about the house lugging a thick, heavy volume of Livingstone's
"Travels" and asking some one to tell him about the "foraging ants" described by the explorer.
At last his older sister found the passage in which the little boy had mistaken "foregoing"
for "foraging." No wonder that in his mature years he became an advocate of reformed spelling.
His sense of humor, which flashed like a mountain brook through all his later intercourse and
made it delightful, seems to have begun with his infancy. He used to say his prayers at his
mother's knee, and one evening when he was out of sorts with her, he prayed the Lord to bless
the Union Cause; knowing her Southern preferences he took this humorous sort of vengeance on
her. She, too, had humor and was much amused, but she warned him that if he repeated such impropriety
at that solemn moment, she should tell his father.

Theodore and the other children had a great fondness for pets, and their aunt, Mrs. Robert,
possessed several of unusual kinds--pheasants and peacocks which strutted about the back yard
and a monkey which lived on the back piazza. They were afraid of him, although they doubtless
watched his antics with a fearful joy. From the accounts which survive, life in the nursery
of the young Roosevelts must have been a perpetual play-time, but through it all ran the invisible
formative influence of their parents, who had the art of shaping the minds and characters of
the little people without seeming to teach.

Almost from infancy Theodore suffered from asthma, which made him physically puny, and often
prevented him from lying down when he went to bed. But his spirit did not droop. His mental
activity never wearied and he poured out endless stories to the delight of his brother and
sisters. "My earliest impressions of my brother Theodore," writes his sister, Mrs. Robinson,
"are of a rather small, patient, suffering little child, who, in spite of his suffering, was
the acknowledged head of the nursery .... These stories," she adds, "almost always related
to strange and marvelous animal adventures, in which the animals were personalities quite as
vivid as Kipling gave to the world a generation later in his 'Jungle Books.'"

Owing to his delicate health Theodore did not attend school, except for a little while, when
he went to Professor MacMullen's Academy on Twentieth Street. He was taught at home and he
probably got more from his reading than from his teachers. By the time he was ten, the passion
for omnivorous reading which frequently distinguishes boys who are physically handicapped,
began in him. He devoured Our Young Folks, that excellent periodical on which many of the boys
and girls who were his contemporaries fed. He loved tales of travel and adventure; he loved
Cooper's stories, and especially books on natural history.

In summer the children spent the long days out of doors at some country place, and there, in
addition to the pleasure of being continuously with nature, they had the sports and games adapted
to their age. Theodore was already making collections of stones and other specimens after the
haphazard fashion of boys. The young naturalist sometimes met with unexpected difficulties.
Once, for instance, he found a litter of young white mice, which he put in the ice-chest for
safety. His mother came upon them, and, in the interest Of good housekeeping, she threw them
away. When Theodore discovered it he flew into a tantrum and protested that what hurt him most
was "the loss to Science! the loss to Science!" On another occasion Science suffered a loss
of unknown extent owing to his obligation to manners. He and his cousin had filled their pockets
and whatever bags they had with specimens. Then they came upon two toads, of a strange and
new variety. Having no more room left, each boy put one of them on top of his head and clapped
down his hat. All went well till they met Mrs. Hamilton Fish, a great lady to whom they had
to take off their hats. Down jumped the toads and hopped away, and Science was never able to
add the Bufo Rooseveltianus to its list of Hudson Valley reptiles.

In 1869 Mr. Roosevelt took his family to Europe for a year. The children did not care to go,
and from the start Theodore was homesick and little interested. Of course, picture galleries
meant nothing to a boy of ten, with a naturalist's appetite, and he could not know enough about
history to be impressed by historic places and monuments. He kept a diary from which Mr. Hagedorn*
prints many amusing entries, some of which I quote:

* H. Hagedorn: The Boy's Life of Theodore Roosevelt. Harper & Bros. 1918.

Munich, October. "In the night I had a nightmare dreaming that the devil was carrying me away
and had collorer morbos (a sickness that is not very dangerous) but Mama patted me with her
delicate fingers."

Little Conie also kept a diary: the next entry is from it:

Paris. "I am so glad Mama has let me stay in the butiful hotel parlor while the poor boys have
been dragged off to the orful picture galary."

Now Theodore again:

Paris, November 26. "I stayed in the house all day, varying the day with brushing my hair,
washing my hands and thinking in fact haveing a verry dull time."

"Nov. 27. I Did the same thing as yesterday."

Chamounix. "I found several specimens to keep and we went on the great glacier called 'Mother
of ice!'"

"We went to our cousins school at Waterloo. We had a nice time but met Jeff Davises son and
some sharp words ensued."

Venice. "We saw a palace of the doges. It looks like a palace you could be comfortable and
snug in (which is not usual)--We went to another church in which Conie jumped over tombstones
spanked me banged Ellies head &c."

"Conie" was his nickname for his younger sister Corinne.*

* She subsequently married Mr. Douglas Robinson.

November 22. "In the evening Mama showed me the portrait of Eidieth Carow and her face stirred
up in me homesickness and longings for the past which will come again never aback never."

The little girl, the sight of whose portrait stirred such longings for the past in the heart
of the young Theodore, was Edith Carow, the special playmate of his sister Conie and one of
the intimate group whom he had always known. Years later she became his wife.

The Roosevelt family returned to New York in May, 1870, and resumed its ordinary life. Theodore,
whom one of his fellow travelers on the steamer remembers as "a tall thin lad with bright eyes
and legs like pipestems," developed rapidly in mind, but the asthma still tormented him and
threatened to make a permanent invalid of him. His father fitted up in the house in Twentieth
Street a small gymnasium and said to the boy in substance, "You have brains, but you have a
sickly body. In order to make your brains bring you what they ought, you must build up your
body; it depends upon you." The boy felt both the obligation and the desire; he willed to be
strong, and he went through his gymnastic exercises with religious precision. What he read
in his books about knights and paladins and heroes had always greatly moved his imagination.
He wanted to be like them. He understood that the one indispensable attribute common to all
of them was bodily strength. Therefore he would be strong. Through all his suffering he was
patient and determined. But I recall no other boy, enfeebled by a chronic and often distressing
disease, who resolved as he did to conquer his enemy by a wisely planned and unceasing course
of exercises.

Improvement came slowly. Many were the nights in which he spent hours gasping for breath. Sometimes
on summer nights his father would wrap him up and take him on a long drive through the darkness
in search of fresh air. But no matter how hard the pinch, the boy never complained, and when
ever there was a respite his vivacity burst forth as fresh as ever. He could not attend school
with other boys and, indeed, his realization that he could not meet them on equal physical
terms made him timid when he was thrown with them. So he pursued his own tastes with all the
more zeal. He read many books, some of which seemed beyond a boy's ken, but he got something
from each of them. His power of concentration already surprised his family. If he was absorbed
in a chapter, nothing which went on outside of him, either noise or interruption, could distract
his attention. His passion for natural his tory increased. At the age of ten, he opened in
one of the rooms of his home "The Roosevelt Museum of Natural History." Later, he devoted himself
more particularly to birds, and learned from a taxidermist how to skin and stuff his specimens.

In 1873, President Grant appointed Mr. Roosevelt a Commissioner to the Vienna Exposition and
the Roosevelt family made another foreign tour. Hoping to benefit Theodore's asthma they went
to Algiers, and up the Nile, where he was much more interested in the flocks of aquatic fowl
than in the half-buried temples of Dendera or the obelisks and pylons of Karnak. He even makes
no mention of the Pyramids, but records with enthusiasm that he found at Cairo a book by an
English clergyman, whose name he forgot, on the ornithology of the Nile, which greatly helped
him. Incidentally, he says that from the Latin names of the birds he made his first acquaintance
with that language. While Mr. Roosevelt attended to his duties in Vienna the younger children
were placed in the family of Herr Minckwitz, a Government official at Dresden. There, Theodore,
"in spite of himself," learned a good deal of German, and he never forgot his pleasant life
among the Saxons in the days be fore the virus of Prussian barbarism had poisoned all the non-Prussian
Germans. Minckwitz had been a Liberal in the Revolution of 1848, a fact which added to Theodore's
interest in him.

On getting home, Theodore, who was fifteen years old, set to work seriously to fit himself
to enter Harvard College. Up to this time his education had been unmethodical, leaving him
behind his fellows in some subjects and far ahead of them in others. He had the good fortune
now to secure as a tutor Mr. Arthur H. Cutler, for many years head of the Cutler Preparatory
School in New York City, thanks to whose excellent training he was able to enter college in
1876. During these years of preparation Theodore's health steadily improved. He had a gun and
was an ardent sportsman, the incentive of adding specimens to his collection of birds and animals
outweighing the mere sport of slaughter. At Oyster Bay, where his father first leased a house
in 1874, he spent much of his time on the water, but he deemed sailing rather lazy and unexciting,
compared with rowing. He enjoyed taking his row-boat out into the Sound, and, if a high headwind
was blowing, or the sea ran in whitecaps, so much the better. He was now able to share in all
of the athletic pastimes of his companions, although, so far as I know, he never indulged in
baseball, the commonest game of all.

When he entered Harvard as a Freshman in 1876, that institution was passing through its transition
from college to university, which had begun when Charles W. Eliot became its President seven
years before. In spite of vehement assaults, the Great Educator pushed on his reform slowly
but resistlessly. He needed to train not only the public but many members, perhaps a majority,
of his faculty. Young Roosevelt found a body of eight hundred undergraduates, the largest number
up to that time. While the Elective System had been introduced in the upper classes, Freshmen
and Sophomores were still required to take the courses prescribed for them.

To one who looks back, after forty years, on the Harvard of that time there was much about
it, the loss of which must be regretted. Limited in many directions it was, no doubt, but its
very limitations made for friendship and for that sense of intimate mutual, relationship, out
of which springs mutual affection. You belonged to Harvard, and she to you. That she was small,
compared with her later magnitude, no more lessened your love for her, than your love for your
own mother could be increased were she suddenly to become a giantess. The undergraduate community
was not exactly a large family, but it was, nevertheless, restricted enough not only for a
fellow to know at least by sight all of his classmates, but also to have some knowledge of
what was going on in other classes as well as in the College as a whole. Academic fame, too,
had a better chance then than it has now. There were eight or ten professors, whom most of
the fellows knew by sight, and all by reputation; now, however, I meet intelligent students
who have never heard even the name of the head of some department who is famous throughout
the world among his colleagues, but whose courses that student has never taken.

In spite of the simplicity and the homelikeness of the Harvard with eight hundred undergraduates,
however, it was large enough to afford the opportunity of meeting men of many different tastes
and men from all parts of the country. So it gave free play to the development of individual
talents, and its standard of scholarship was already sufficiently high to ensure the excellence
of the best scholars it trained. One quality which we probably took little note of, although
it must have affected us all, sprang from the fact that Harvard was still a crescent institution;
she was in the full vigor of growth, of expansion, of increase, and we shared insensibly from
being connected with that growth. In retrospect now, and giving due recognition to this crescent
spirit, I recall that, in spite of it, Omar Khayyam was the favorite poet of many of us, that
introspection, which sometimes deepened into pessimism, was in vogue, and that a spiritual
or philosophic languorous disenchantment sicklied o'er the somewhat mottled cast of our thought.

Roosevelt took rooms at No. 16 Winthrop Street, a quiet little lane midway between the College
Yard and Charles River, where he could pursue his hobbies without incessant interruption from
casual droppers-in. Here he kept the specimens which he went on collecting, some live--a large
turtle and two or three harmless snakes, for instance--and some dead and stuffed. He was no
"grind"; the gods take care not to mix even a drop of pedantry in the make-up of the rare men
whom they destine for great deeds or fine works. Theodore was already so much stronger in his
health that he went on to get still more strength. He had regular lessons in boxing. He took
long walks and studied the flora and fauna of the country round Cambridge in his amateurish
but intense way. During his first Christmas vacation, he went down to the Maine Woods and camped
out, and there he met Bill Sewall, a famous guide, who remained Theodore's friend through life,
and Wilmot Dow, Sewall's nephew, another woodsman; and this trip, subsequently followed by
others, did much good to his physique. He still had occasional attacks of asthma--he "guffled"
as Bill Sewall called it--and they were sometimes acute, but his tendency to them slowly wore away.

All his days Roosevelt was proud of being a Harvard man. Even in the period when academic Harvard
was most critical of his public acts, he never wavered in his devotion to Alma Mater herself,
that dear and lovely Being, who, like the ideal of our country, lives on to inspire us in spite
of unsympathetic administrations and unloved leaders.

"The One remains, the many change and pass."

Nevertheless, in his "Autobiography," Theodore makes very scant record of his college life.
* Like nine out of ten men who look back on college he could make no definite estimate of the
actual gains from those four years; but it is precisely the indefiniteness, the elusiveness
of the college experience which marks its worth. This is not to be reckoned financially by
an increase in dollars and cents, or intellectually, by so many added foot-pounds of knowledge.
Harvard College was of inestimable benefit to Roosevelt, because it enabled him to find himself--to
be a man with his fellow men.

*Autobiography, 27.

During his youth his physical handicap had rather cut him off from companionship on equal terms
with his fellows. Now, however, he could enter with zest in their sports and societies. At
the very beginning of his Freshman year he showed his classmates his mettle. During the presidential
torchlight parade when the jubilant Freshmen were marching for Hayes, some Tilden man shouted
derisively at them from a second-story window and pelted them with potatoes. It was impossible
for them to get at him, but Theodore, who was always stung at any display of meanness-- and
it was certainly mean to attack the paraders when they could not retaliate--stood out from
the line and shook his fist at the assailant. His fellow marchers asked who their champion
was, and so the name of Roosevelt and his pugnacious little figure became generally known to
them. He was little then, not above five feet six in height, and under one hundred and thirty
pounds in weight. By degrees they all knew him. His unusual ways, his loyalty to his hobbies,
which he treated not as mere whims but as being worthy of serious application, his versatility,
his outspokenness, his almost unbroken good-nature, attracted most of the persons with whom
he came in contact. He rose to be President of the Natural History Society, a distinction which
implied some real merit in its possessor. His family antecedents, but still more his personal
qualities, made easy for him the ascent of the social terraces at Harvard--the Dicky, the Hasty
Pudding Club, and the Porcellian. He was editor of the Harvard Advocate, which opened the door
of the O.K. Society, where he found congenial intellectual companionship with the editors from
the classes above and below him; and when Dr. Edward Everett Hale wished to revive and perpetuate
the Alpha Delta Phi Fraternity, Roosevelt was one of the half-dozen men from the Class of 1880
whom he selected.

My first definite recollection of him is at the annual dinner of the Harvard Crimson in January
or February, 1879. He was invited as a guest to represent the Advocate. Since entering college
I had met him casually many times and had heard of his oddities and exuberance; but throughout
this dinner I came to feel that I knew him. On being called on to speak he seemed very shy
and made, what I think he said, was his maiden speech. He still had difficulty in enunciating
clearly or even in running off his words smoothly. At times he could hardly get them out at
all, and then he would rush on for a few sentences, as skaters redouble their pace over thin
ice. He told the story of two old gentlemen who stammered, the point of which was, that one
of them,--after distressing contortions and stoppages, recommended the other to go to Dr. X,
adding, "He cured me."

A trifling bit of thistledown for memory to have preserved after all these years; but still
it is interesting to me to recall that this was the beginning of the public speaking of the
man who later addressed more audiences than any other orator of his time and made a deeper
impression by his spoken word.

One other reminiscence of Roosevelt at Harvard, almost as unsubstantial as this. Late in his
Senior year we had a committee meeting of the Alpha Delta Phi in Charles Washburn's room at
15 Holworthy. Roosevelt and I sat in the window-seat overlooking the College Yard and chatted
together in the intervals when business was slack. We discussed what we intended to do after
graduation. "I am going to try to help the cause of better government in New York City; I don't
know exactly how," said Theodore.

I recall, still, looking hard at him with an eager, inquisitive look and saying to myself,
"I wonder whether he is the real thing, or only the bundle of eccentricities which he appears."
There was in me then, as there has always been, a mingling of skepticism and of deep reverence
for those who dealt with reality, and I had not had sufficient opportunity to determine whether
Roosevelt was real or not. One at least of his classmates, however, saw portents of greatness
in Theodore, from their Freshman year, and most of us, even when we were amused and puzzled
by his " queerness," were very sure that the man from whom they sprang was not commonplace.

So far as I remember, Roosevelt was the first undergraduate to own and drive a dog-cart. This
excited various comments; so did the reddish, powder-puff side whiskers which no chaffing could
make him cut. There was never the slightest suggestion of the gilded youth about him; though
dog-carts, especially when owned by young men, implied the habits and standards of the gilded
rich. How explain the paradox? On the other hand, Theodore taught Sunday School at Christ Church,
but he was so muscular a Christian that the decorous vestrymen thought him an unwise guide
in piety. For one day a boy came to class with a black eye which he had got in fighting a larger
boy for pinching his sister. Theodore told him that he did perfectly right--that every boy
ought to defend any girl from insult--and he gave him a dollar as a reward. The vestrymen decided
that this was too flagrant approval of fisticuffs; so the young teacher soon found a welcome
in the Sunday School of a different denomination.

Of all the stories of Roosevelt's college career, that of his boxing match is most vividly
remembered. He enrolled in the light-weight sparring at the meeting in the Harvard Gymnasium
on March 22 1879, and defeated his first competitor. When the referee called "time," Roosevelt
immediately dropped his hands, but the other man dealt him a savage blow on the face, at which
we all shouted, "Foul, foul!" and hissed; but Roosevelt turned towards us and cried out "Hush!
He didn't hear," a chivalrous act which made him immediately popular. In his second match he
met Hanks. They both weighed about one hundred and thirty-five pounds, but Hanks was two or
three inches taller and he had a much longer reach, so that Theodore could not get in his blows,
and although he fought with unabated pluck, he lost the contest. More serious than his short
reach, however, was his near-sightedness, which made it impossible for him to see and parry
Hanks's lunges. When time was called after the last round, his face was dashed with blood and
he was much winded; but his spirit did not flag, and if there had been another round, he would
have gone into it with undiminished determination. From this contest there sprang up the legend
that Roosevelt boxed with his eyeglasses lashed to his head, and the legend floated hither
and thither for nearly thirty years. Not long ago I asked him the truth. "Persons who believe
that," he said, "must think me utterly crazy; for one of Charlie Hanks's blows would have smashed
my eyeglasses and probably blinded me for life."

In a class of one hundred and seventy he graduated twenty second, which entitled him to membership
in the Phi Beta Kappa, the society of high scholars. To one who examines his academic record
wisely, the best symptom is that he did fairly well in several unrelated subjects, and achieved
preeminence in one, natural history. He had the all-round quality which shows more promise
than does a propensity to light on a particular topic and suck it dry; but he had also power
of concentration and thoroughness. As I have just said, he was a happy combination of the amateurish
and intense. His habit of absorption became a by-word; for if he visited a, classmate's room
and saw a book which interested him, instead of joining in the talk, he would devour the book,
oblivious of, everything else, until the college bell rang for the next lecture, when he would
jump up with a start, and dash off. The quiet but firm teaching of his parents bore fruit in
him: he came to college with a body of rational moral principles which he made no parade of,
but obeyed instinctively. And so, where many young fellows are thrown off their balance on
first acquiring the freedom which college life gives, or are dazed and distracted on first
hearing the babel of strange philosophies or novel doctrines, he walked straight, held himself
erect, and was not fooled into mistaking novelty for truth, or libertinism for manliness.

Two outside events which deeply influenced him must be noted. During his Sophomore year his
father died; and during his Senior year, Theodore became engaged to Miss Alice Hathaway Lee,
daughter of George C. Lee, of Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts.

CHAPTER II. BREAKING INTO POLITICS

Roosevelt was a few months less than twenty-two years old when he graduated from Harvard. His
career in college had wrought several important changes in him. First of all, his strength
was confirmed. Although he still suffered occasionally from asthma, he was no longer handicapped.
In business, or in pleasure, he did not need to consider his health. Next, he had come to some
definite decision as to what he would do. His earlier dream of becoming a professor of natural
history had faded away. With the inpouring of vigor into his constitution the ideal of an academic
life, often sedentary in mind as well as in body, ceased to lure him. He craved activity, and
this craving was bound to grow more urgent as he acquired more strength. Next, and this consideration
must not be neglected, he was free to choose. His father's death left him the possessor of
a sufficient fortune to live on comfortably without need of working to earn his bread and butter--the
motive which determines most young men when they start in life. Finally, his father's example,
reinforced by wholesome advice, quickened in Theodore his sense of obligation to the community.
Having money, he must use it, not for mere personal gratification, but in ways which would
benefit those who were deprived, or outcast, or bereft. But Theodore was too young and too
energetic to be contented with the life of a philanthropist, no matter how noble and necessary
its objects might be. He had already accepted Emerson's dictum:

"He who feeds men, serves a few; He serves all who dares be true."

Young as he was, he divined that much of the charitable work, to which good people devote them
selves in order to lighten or relieve the ills which the sins and errors of mankind beget,
would be needless if the remedy were applied, as it ought to be, to fundamental social conditions.
These, he believed, could be reached in many cases through political agency, and he resolved,
therefore, to make a trial of his talents in political life. The point at which he decided
to "break into politics, " as he expressed it, was the Assembly, or Lower House of the New
York State Legislature. Most of his friends and classmates, on hearing of his plan, regarded
it as a proof of his eccentricity; a few of them, the more discerning, would not prejudge him,
but were rather inclined to hope. By tradition and instinct, he was a Republican, and in order
to learn the political ropes he joined the Twenty-first District Republican Association of
New York City. The district consisted chiefly of rich, respectable, and socially conspicuous
inhabitants of the vortex metropolis, with a leaven of the "masses." The "classes" had no real
zeal for discharging their political duty. They subscribed to the campaign fund, but had too
delicate a sense of propriety to ask how their money was spent. A few of them--and these seemed
to be endowed with a special modicum of patriotism--even attended the party primaries in which
candidates were named. The majority went to the polls and cast their vote on election day,
if it did not rain or snow. For a young man of Roosevelt's position to desire to take up politics
seemed to his friends almost comic. Politics were low and corrupt; politics were not for "gentlemen";
they were the business and pastime of liquor-dealers, and of the degenerates and loafers who
frequented the saloons, of horse-car conductors, and of many others whose ties with "respectability"
were slight.

To join the organization, Roosevelt had to be elected to the Twenty-first District Republican
Club, for the politicians of those days kept their organization close, not to say exclusive,
and in this way they secured the docility of their members. The Twenty first District Club
met in Morton Hall, a dingy, barnlike room situated over a saloon, and furnished severely with
wooden benches, many spittoons, and a speaker's table decorated with a large pitcher for ice-water.
The regular meetings came once a month and Roosevelt attended them faithfully, because he never
did things by halves, and having made up his mind to learn the mechanism of politics, he would
not neglect any detail.

Despite the shyness which ill health caused him in his youth, he was really a good "mixer,"
and, growing to feel more sure of himself, he met men on equal terms. More than that, he had
the art of inspiring confidence in persons of divers sorts and, as he was really interested
in knowing their thoughts and desires, it never took him long to strike up friendly relations
with them.

Jake Hess, the Republican "Boss" of the Twenty-first District, evidently eyed Roosevelt with
some suspicion, for the newcomer belonged to a class which Jake did not desire to see largely
represented in the business of "practical politics," and so he treated Roosevelt with a "rather
distant affability." The young man, however, got on well enough with the heelers--the immediate
trusty followers of the Boss--and with the ordinary members. They probably marveled to see
him so unlike what they believed a youth of the "kid-glove" and "silkstocking" set would be,
and they accepted him as a "good fellow."

Of all Roosevelt's comrades during this first year of initiation, a young Irishman named Joe
Murray was nearest to him, an honest fellow, fearless and stanch, who remained his loyal friend
for forty years. Murray began as a Democrat of the Tammany Hall tribe, but having been left
in the lurch by his Boss at an election, he determined to punish the Boss, and this he did
at the first opportunity by throwing his influence on the side of the Republican candidate.
The Republicans won, although the district was overwhelmingly Democratic, and Murray joined
the Republican Party. He worked in the district where Jake Hess ruled. Like other even greater
men, Jake became arrogant and treated the gang under him with condescension. Murray resented
this and resolved that he would humble the Boss by supporting Roosevelt as a candidate for
the Assembly. Hess protested, but could not prevent the nomination and during the campaign
he seems to have supported the candidate whom he had not chosen.

Roosevelt sent the following laconic appeal to some of the voters of his district:

New York, November 1, 1881.

DEAR SIR:

Having been nominated as a candidate for member of Assembly for this District, I would esteem
it a compliment if you honor me with your vote and personal influence on Election day.

Very respectfully

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

Certainly, nothing could be simpler than this card, which contains no puff of either the party
or the candidate, or no promise. It drew a cordial response.

Twenty-first Assembly District.

40th to 86th Sts., Lexington to 7th Aves.

We cordially recommend the voters of the Twenty-first Assembly District to cast their ballots for

Theodore Roosevelt

for member of Assembly

and take much pleasure in testifying to our appreciation of his high character and standing
in the community. He is conspicuous for his honesty and integrity, and eminently qualified
to represent the District in the Assembly.

New York November 1, 1881

F. A. P. Barnard, William T. Black, Willard Bullard, Joseph H. Choate, William A. Darling,
Henry E. Davies, Theodore W. Dwight, Jacob Hess, Morris K. Jesup, Edward Mitchell, William
F. Morgan, Chas. S. Robinson, Elihu Root, Jackson S. Shultz, Elliott F. Shepard, Gustavus Tuckerman,
S. H. Wales, W. H. Webb.

This list bears the names of at least two men who will be long remembered. There are also several
others which were doubtless of more political value to the aspirant to office in 1881.

Just after the election Roosevelt wrote to his classmate, Charles G. Washburn:

'Too true, too true; I have become a "political hack." Finding it would not interfere much
with my law, I accepted the nomination to the Assembly and was elected by 1500 majority, leading
the ticket by 600 votes. But don't think I am going to go into politics after this year, for
I am not.'

Roosevelt's allusion to the law requires the statement that in the autumn of 1880 he had begun
to read law in the office of his uncle, Robert Roosevelt; not that he had a strong leaning
to the legal profession, but that he believed that every one, no matter how well off he might
be, ought to be able to support himself by some occupation or profession. Also, he could not
endure being idle, and he knew that the slight political work on which he embarked when he
joined the Twenty-first District Republican Club would take but little of his time. During
that first year out of college he established himself as a citizen, not merely politically,
but socially. On his birthday in 1880 he married Miss Lee and they set up their home at 6 West
Fifty-seventh Street; he joined social and literary clubs and extended his athletic interests
beyond wrestling and boxing to hunting, rifle practice, and polo.

His law studies seem to have absorbed him less than anything else that he undertook during
all his life. He could not fail to be interested in them, but he never plunged into them with
all his might and main as if he intended to make them his chief concern. For a while he had
a desk in the office of the publishers, G. P. Putnam's Sons: but Major George Putnam recalls
that he did little except suggest wonderful projects, which "had to be sat down upon." Already
a love of writing infected him. Even before he left Harvard he had begun "A History of the
Naval War of 1812," and this he worked on eagerly. The Putnams published it in 1882.

One incident of Roosevelt's canvass must not be overlooked. The Red Indians of old used to
make their captives run the gauntlet between two lines of warriors: political bosses in New
York in 1880 made their nominee run the gauntlet of all the saloonkeepers in their district.
Accordingly, Jake Hess and Joe Murray proceeded to introduce Roosevelt to the rum-sellers of
Sixth Avenue. The first they visited received Theodore with injudicious condescension almost
as if he were a suppliant. He said he hoped that the young candidate, if elected, would treat
the liquor men fairly, to which the "suppliant" replied that he intended to treat all interests
fairly. The suggestion that liquor licenses were too high brought the retort that they were
not high enough. Thereupon, the wary Hess and the discreet Joe Murray found an excuse for hurrying
Roosevelt out of the saloon, and they told him that he had better look after his friends on
Fifth Avenue and that they would look after the saloon-keepers on Sixth Avenue. That any decent
candidate should have to pass in review before the saloon-keepers and receive their approval,
is so monstrous as to be grotesque. That a possible President of the United States should be
the victim needs no comment. It was thoroughly characteristic of Roosevelt that he balked at
the first trial.

He says in his "Autobiography" that he was not conscious of going into politics to benefit
other people, but to secure for himself a privilege to which every one was entitled. That privilege
was self-government. When his "kid-glove" friends laughed at him for deliberately choosing
to leap into the political mire, he told them that the governing class ought to govern, and
that not they themselves but the bosses and "heelers" were the real governors of New York City.
Not the altruistic desire to reform, but the perfectly practical resolve to enjoy the political
rights to which he had a claim was his leading motive. It is important to understand this because
it will explain much of his action as a statesman. Roosevelt is the greatest idealist in American
public life since Lincoln; but his idealism, like Lincoln's, always had a firm, intelligent,
practical footing. Roosevelt himself thus describes his work during his first year in the New
York Assembly:

I paid attention chiefly while in the Legislature to laws for the reformation of Primaries
and of the Civil Service and endeavored to have a certain Judge Westbrook impeached, on the
ground of corrupt collusion with Jay Gould and the prostitution of his high judicial office
to serve the purpose of wealthy and unscrupulous stock gamblers, but was voted down.

This brief statement gives no idea of either the magnitude or quality of his work in which,
like young David, he went forth to smite Goliath, the Giant Corruption,, entrenched for years
in the Albany State House. I do not believe that in at tacking the monster, Roosevelt thought
that he was displaying unusual courage, much less that he was winning the crown of a moral
hero. He simply saw a mass of abuse and wickedness which every decent person ought to repudiate.
Most decent persons saw it, too, but convention, or self-interest, party affiliation, or unromantic,
every-day cowardice, made them hold their tongues. Being assigned to committees which had some
of the most important concerns of New York City in charge, Roosevelt had the advantage given
by his initiation into political methods as practiced in the Twenty-first District of knowing
a little more than his colleagues knew about the local issues. Three months of the session
elapsed before he stood up in the Chamber and attacked point-blank,one formidable champion
of corruption. Listen to an anonymous writer in the Saturday Evening Post:

It was on April 6, 1882, that Roosevelt took the floor in the Assembly and demanded that Judge
Westbrook, of New bury, be impeached. And for sheer moral courage that act is probably supreme
in Roosevelt's life thus far. He must have expected failure. Even his youth and idealism and
ignorance of public affairs could not blind him to the apparently inevitable consequences.
Yet he drew his sword and rushed apparently to destruction--alone, and at the very outset of
his career, and in disregard of the pleadings of his closest friends and the plain dictates
of political wisdom. That speech--the deciding act in Roosevelt's career--is not remarkable
for eloquence. But it is remarkable for fear less candor. He called thieves thieves, regardless
of their millions; he slashed savagely at the judge and the Attorney General; he told the plain
unvarnished truth as his indignant eyes saw it.*

* Riis, 54-55.

Astonishment verging on consternation filled the Assemblymen, who, through long experience,
were convinced that Truth was too precious to be exhibited in public. Worldly wisdom came to
the aid of the veteran Republican leader who wished to treat the assault as if it were the
unripe explosion of youth. The callowness of his young friend must excuse him. He doubtless
meant well, but his inexperience prevented him from realizing that many a reputation in public
life had been shattered by just such loose charges. He felt sure that when the young man had
time to think it over, he would modify his language. It would be fitting, therefore, for that
body to show its kindliness by giving the new member from New York City leisure to think it over.

Little did this official defender of corruption understand Mr. Roosevelt, whose business it
was then to uphold Right. That was a question in which expediency could have no voice. He regarded
neither the harm he might possibly do to his political future nor to the standing of the Republican
Party. I suspect that he smarted under the leader's attempt to treat him as a young man whose
breaks instead of causing surprise must be condoned. Although the magnates of the party pleaded
with him and urged him not to throw away his usefulness, he rose again in the Assembly next
day and renewed his demand for an investigation of Judge Westbrook. Day after day he repeated
his demand. The newspapers throughout the State began to give more and more attention to him.
The public applauded, and the legislators, who had sat and listened to him with contemptuous
indifference, heard from their constituents. At last, on the eighth day, by a vote of 104 to
6 the Assembly adopted Roosevelt's resolution and appointed an investigating committee. The
evidence taken amply justified Roosevelt's charges, in spite of which the committee gave a
whitewashing verdict. Nevertheless the "young reformer" had not only proved his case, but had
suddenly made a name for himself in the State and in the Country.

Before his first term ended he discovered that there were enemies of honest government quite
as dangerous as the open supporters of corruption. These were the demagogues who, under the
pretense of attacking the wicked interests, introduced bills for the sole purpose of being
bought off. Sly fellows they were and sneaks. Against their "strike" legislation Roosevelt
had also to fight. His chief friend at Albany was Billy O'Neil, who kept a little crossroads
grocery up in the Adirondacks; had thought for himself on American politics; had secured his
election to the Assembly without the favor of the Machine; and now acted there with as much
independence as his young colleague of the Twenty first District. Roosevelt remarks that the
fact that two persons, sprung from such totally different surroundings, should come together
in the Legislature was an example of the fine result which American democracy could achieve.

The session came to a close, and although Roosevelt had protested the year before that he was
not going into politics as a career, he allowed himself to be renominated. Naturally, his desire
to continue in and complete the task in which he had already accomplished much was whetted.
He would have been a fool if he had not known, what every one else knew, that he had made a
very brilliant record during his first year. A false standard which comes very near hypocrisy
imposes a ridiculous mock modesty on great men in modern times: as if Shakespeare alone should
be unaware that he was Shakespeare or that Napoleon or Darwin or Lincoln or Cavour should each
be ignorant of his worth. Better vanity, if you will, than sham modesty. There was no harm
done that Roosevelt at twenty-three felt proud of being recognized as a power in the Assembly.
We must never forget also that he was a fighter, and that his first contests in Albany had
so roused his blood that he longed to fight those battles to a finish, that is, to victory.
We must make a distinction also in his motives. He did not strain every nerve to win a cause
because it was his cause; but having adopted a cause which his heart and mind told him was
good, he strove to make that cause triumph because he believed it to be good.

So he allowed himself to be renominated and he was reelected by 2000 majority, although in
that autumn of 1882 the Democratic candidate for Governor, Grover Cleveland, swept New York
State by 192,000 and carried into office by the momentum of his success many of the minor candidates
on the Democratic ticket.

The year 1883 opened with the cheer of dawn in New York politics. Cleveland, the young Governor
of forty-four, had proved himself fearless, public-spirited, and conscientious. So had Roosevelt,
the young Assemblyman of twenty-three. One was a Democrat, one a Republican, but they were
alike in courage and in holding honesty and righteousness above their party platforms.

Roosevelt pursued in this session the methods which had made him famous and feared in the preceding.
He admits that he may have had for a while a "swelled head," for in the chaos of conflicting
principles and no-principles in which his life was thrown, he decided to act independently
and to let his conscience determine his action on each question which arose. He flocked by
himself on a peak. He was too practical, however, to hold this course long. Experience had
already taught him that under a constitutional government parties which advocate or oppose
issues must rule, and that in order to make your issues win you must secure a majority of the
votes. Not by playing solitaire, therefore, not by standing aloof as one crying in the wilderness,
but by honestly persuading as many as you could to support you, could you promote the causes
which you had at heart. The professional politicians and the Machine leaders still thought
that he was stubborn and too conceited to listen to reason, but in reality he had a few intimates
like Billy O'Neil and Mike Costello with whom he took counsel, and a group of thirty or forty
others, both Republican and Democratic, with whom he acted harmoniously on many questions.

They all united to fight the Black-Horse Cavalry, as the gang of "strike" legislators was called.
One of the most insidious bills pushed by these rascals aimed at reducing the fares on the
New York Elevated Railway from ten cents to five cents. It seemed so plausible! So entirely
in the interest of the poor man! Indeed, the affairs of the Elevated took up much of Roosevelt's
attention and enriched for years the Black-Horse Cavalrymen and the lobbyists. He also forced
the Assembly to appoint a commission to investigate the New York City police officials, the
police department being at that time notoriously corrupt. They employed as their counsel George
Bliss, a lawyer of prominence, with a sharp tongue and a contempt for self-constituted reformers.
While Roosevelt was cross-examining one of the officials, Bliss, who little understood the
man he was dealing with, interrupted with a scornful and impertinent remark. "Of course you
do not mean that, Mr. Bliss," said the young reformer with impressive politeness, "for if you
did we should have to put you out in the street." Even in those early days, when Roosevelt
was in dead earnest, he had a way of pointing his forefinger and of fixing his under jaw which
the person whom he addressed could not mistake. That forefinger was as menacing as a seven
shooter. Mr. Bliss, with all the prestige of a successful career at the bar behind him, quickly
understood the meaning of the look, the gesture, and the studied courtesy. He deemed it best
to retract and apologize at once; and it was.

Roosevelt consented to run for a third term and he was elected in spite of the opposition of
the various elements which united to defeat him. Such a man was too. dangerous to be acceptable
to Jay Gould and the "interests," to Black-Horse Cavalry, and to gangs of all kinds who made
a living, directly or indirectly, by office-holding. His friends urged him for the speakership;
but this was asking too much of the Democratic majority, and besides, there were Republicans
who had winced under his scourge the year before and were glad enough to defeat him now. Occasionally,
some kind elderly friend would still attempt to show him the folly of his ways, and we hear
reports of one gentleman, a member of the Assembly and an "old friend," who told him that the
great concern in life was Business, and that lawyers and judges, legislators and Congressmen,
existed to serve the ends of Business. "There is no politics in politics," said this moral
guide and sage. But he could not budge the young man, who believed that there are many considerations
more important than the political.

During this third year, he made a straight and gallant fight to improve the condition under
which cigars were made in New York City. By his own investigation, he found that the cigar
makers lived in tenements, in one room, perhaps two, with their families and often a boarder;
these made the cigars which the public bought, in ignorance of the facts. Roosevelt proposed
that, as a health measure which would benefit alike the cigar-makers and the public, this evil
practice be prohibited and that the police put a stop to it. His bill passed in 1884, but the
next year the Court of Appeals declared it unconstitutional, because it deprived the tenement-house
people of their liberty and would injure the owners of the tenements if they were not allowed
to rent their property to these tenants. In its decision, the court indulged in nauseating
sanctimony of this sort: " It cannot be perceived how the cigar-maker is to be improved in
his health, or his morals, by forcing him from his home and its hallowed associations and beneficent
influences to ply his trade elsewhere." This was probably not the first time when Roosevelt
was enraged to find the courts of justice sleekly upholding hot-beds of disease and vice, on
the pretense that they were protecting liberty. Commenting on this episode, Mr. Washburn well
says: "As applied to the kind of tenement I have referred to, this reference to the 'home and
its hallowed associations' seems grotesque or tragic depending upon the point of view."*

* Washburn, 11.

Amid work of this kind, fighting and fearless, constantly adding to his reputation among the
good as a high type of reformer, and adding to the detestation in which the bad held him, he
completed his third term. He resolutely refused to serve again and declined the offers which
were pressed upon him to run for Congress; nor did he accept a place on the Republican National
Committee.

The death of his mother on February 12, 1884, followed in twenty-four hours by that of his
wife, who died after the birth of a daughter, brought sorrow upon Roosevelt which made the
burden of his political work heavier and caused him to consider how he should readjust his
life, for he was first of all a man of deep family affections and the loss of his wife left
him adrift.

To S. N. D. North, editor of the Utica Herald and a well-wisher of his, he wrote from Albany
on April 30, 1884:

Dear Mr. North: I wish to write you a few words just to thank you for your kindness towards
me, and to assure you that my head will not be turned by what I well know was a mainly accidental
success. Although not a very old man, I have yet lived a great deal in my life, and I have
known sorrow too bitter and joy too keen to allow me to become either cast down or elated for
more than a very brief period over success or defeat.

I have very little expectation of being able to keep on in politics; my success so far has
only been won by absolute indifference to my future career; for I doubt if any one can realize
the bitter and venomous hatred with which I am regarded by the very politicians who at Utica
supported me, under dictation from masters who were influenced by political considerations
that were national and not local in their scope. I realize very thoroughly the absolutely ephemeral
nature of the hold I have upon the people, and the very real and positive hostility I have
excited among the politicians. I will not stay in public life unless I can do so on my own
terms; and my ideal, whether lived up to or not, is rather a high one. For very many reasons
I will not mind going back into private life for a few years. My work this winter has been
very harassing, and I feel both tired and restless; for the next few months I shall probably
be in Dakota, and I think I shall spend the next two or three years in making shooting trips,
either in the Far West or in the Northern woods--and there will be plenty of work to do writing.*

* Douglas, 41-42.

This letter is a striking revelation of the inmost intentions of the man of twenty-five, who
already stood on a pinnacle where hard heads and mature might well have been dizzy. Evidently
he knew him self, and even in his brief experience with the world he understood how uncertain
and evanescent are the winds of Fame. If he had ever suffered from a "swelled head," he was
now cured. He felt the emptiness of life's prizes when the dearest who should have shared them
with him were dead.

CHAPTER III. AT THE FIRST CROSSROADS

The year 1884 was a Presidential year, and Roosevelt was one of the four delegates-at-large*
of New York State to the Republican National Convention at Chicago. The day seemed to have
come for a new birth in American politics. The Republican Party was grown fat with four and
twenty years of power, and the fat had overlain and smothered its noble aims. The party was
arrogant, it was corrupt, it was unashamed. After the War, immense projects involving huge
sums of money had to be managed, and the Republicans spent like spendthrifts when they did
not spend like embezzlers. I do not imply that the Democrats would not have done the same if
they had been in command, or that there were not among them many who saw where their profit
lay, and took it. The quadrupeds which feed at the Treasury trough are all of one species,
no matter whether their skins be black or white.

* The other delegates-at-large were President Andrew D. White of Cornell University, J. T.
Gilbert, and Edwin Packard.

But now a new generation was springing up, with its leaven of hope and idealism and its intuitive
faith in honesty.

More completely than any one else, Roosevelt embodied to the country the glorious promise of
this new generation. But the old always dies hard after it has long been the blood and mind
of a creed, a class, or a party. Terrible also is the blind, remorseless sweep of a custom
which may have sprung up from good soil, not less than one spawned and nurtured in iniquity.
Frankenstein laboriously constructing his monster seems to personify society at its immemorial
task of creating institutions; each institution as it becomes viable rends its creator.

So the Republican Party lived on its traditions, its privileges, its appetites, its arrogance,
and it refused to be transmuted by its youngest members. In 1876 it resorted to fraud to perpetuate
its hold on power. Unchastened in 1880, three hundred and six of its delegates attempted through
thick and thin to force the nomination of General Grant for a third term. The chief opposing
candidate was James G. Blaine, whose unsavory reputation, however, caused the majority of the
convention which was not pledged to Grant to repudiate Blaine and to choose Garfield as a compromise.
Then followed four years of factional bitterness in the party, and when 1884 came round, Blaine's
admirers pushed him to the front.

Blaine himself was not a person of delicate instinct. The repudiation which he had twice suffered
by the better element of the Republican Party, seemed only to redouble his determination to
be its candidate. He had much personal magnetism. Both in his methods and ideals, he represented
perfectly the politicians who during the dozen years after Lincoln's death flourished at Washington,
and at every State capitol in the Union. By the luck of a catching phrase applied to him by
Robert G. Ingersoll, he stood before the imagination of the country "as the plumed knight,"
although on looking back we search in vain for any trait of knightliness or chivalry in him.
For a score of years he filled the National Congress, House and Senate, with the bustle of
his egotism. His knightly valor consisted in shaking his fist at the "Rebel Brigadiers " and
in waving the "bloody shirt," feats which seemed to him heroic, no doubt, but which were safe
enough, the Brigadiers being few and Blaine's supporters many. But where on the Nation's statute
book do you find now a single important law fathered by him? What book contains one of his
maxims for men to live by? Many persons still live who knew him, and remember him, but can
any of them repeat a saying of his which passes current on the lips of Americans? So much sound
and fury, so much intrigue and sophistry, and self-seeking, and now the silence of an empty
sepulchre!

The better element of the Republican Party went to the Chicago Convention sworn to save the
party from the disgrace of nominating Blaine. Roosevelt believed the charges against him, and
by all that he had written and spoken, and by his political career, he was bound to oppose
the politician, who, as Speaker of the National House, had, by the showing of his own letters,
taken bribes from unscrupulous interests. In the convention, and in the committee meetings,
and in the incessant parleys which prepare the work of a convention, Roosevelt fought unwaveringly
against Blaine. The better element made Senator George F. Edmunds their candidate, and Roosevelt
urged his nomination on all comers. When the convention met, Mr. Lodge, of Massachusetts, nominated
J. R. Lynch, a negro from Mississippi, to be temporary chairman, thereby heading off Powell
Clayton, a veteran Republican "war-horse" and office-holder. Roosevelt had the honor--and it
was an honor for so young a man--to make a speech, which proved to be effective, in Lynch's
behalf; and when the vote was taken, Lynch was chosen by 424 to 384. This first victory over
the Blaine Machine, the Edmunds men hailed as a good omen.

Roosevelt was chairman of the New York State delegation. The whirling days and nights at Chicago
confirmed his position as a national figure, but he strove in vain in behalf of honesty. The
majority of the delegates would not be gainsaid. They had come to Chicago resolved to elect
James G. Blaine, and no other, and they would not quit until they had accomplished this. Pleas
for morality and for party concord fell on deaf ears, as did warnings of the comfort which
Blaine's nomination would give to their enemies. His supporters packed the great convention
hall, and when his name was put in nomination, there followed a riot of cheers, which lasted
the better part of an hour, and foreboded his success.

As had been predicted, Blaine's nomination split the Republican Party. Many of the better element
came out for Grover Cleveland, the Democratic candidate, who, as Governor of New York, had
displayed unfailing courage, integrity, and intelligence. Others again, disgusted with many
of the principles and leaders of both parties, formed themselves into a special group or party
of Independents. They were hateful alike to the Bosses who controlled the Republican or Democratic
organization; and Charles A. Dana, of the New York Sun, who took care never to be "on the side
of the angels," derisively dubbed them "mugwumps"--a title which may carry an honorable meaning
to posterity.

I was one of these Independents, and if I cite my own case, it is not because it was of any
importance to the public, but because it was typical. During the days of suspense before the
Chicago Convention met, the proposed nomination of Blaine weighed upon me like a nightmare.
I would not admit to myself that so great a crime against American ideals could be committed
by delegates who represented the standard of any political party, and were drawn from all over
the country. I cherished, what seems to me now the sadly foolish dream, that with Roosevelt
in the convention the abomination could not be done. I thought of him as of a paladin against
whom the forces of evil would dash themselves to pieces. I thought of him as the young and
dauntless spokesman of righteousness whose words would silence the special pleaders of iniquity.
I wrote him and besought him to stand firm.

There followed the days of suspense when the newspapers brought news of the wild proceedings
at the convention, and for me the shadow deepened. Then the telegraph reported Blaine's triumphant
nomination. I waited, we all waited, to learn what the delegates who opposed him intended to
do. One morning a dispatch in the New York Tribune announced that Roosevelt would not bolt.
That very day I had a little note from him saying that he had done his best in Chicago, that
the result sickened him, that he should, however, support the Republican ticket; but he intended
to spend most of the summer and autumn hunting in the West.

I was dumfounded. I felt as Abolitionists felt after Webster's Seventh of March speech. My
old acquaintance, our trusted leader, whose career in the New York Assembly we had watched
with an almost holy satisfaction, seemed to have strangely abandoned the fundamental principles
which we and he had believed in, and he had so nobly upheld.

Amid the lurid gleams and heat of such a disappointment, men cannot see clearly. They impute
wrong motives, base motives, to the backslider. In their wrath, they assume that only guilt
can account for his defection.

We see plainly enough now that we misjudged Roosevelt. We assumed that because he was with
us in the crusade for pure politics, he agreed with us in the estimate we put on party loyalty.
Independents and mugwumps felt little reverence and set even less value on political parties,
which we regarded simply as instruments to be used in carrying out policies. If a party pursued
a policy contrary to our own, we left it as we should leave a train which we found going in
the wrong direction. There was nothing sacred in a political party.

In assuming that Roosevelt must have coincided with us in these views, we did him wrong. For
he held then, and had held since he first entered politics, that party transcended persons,
and that only in the gravest case imaginable was one justified in bolting his party because
one disapproved of its candidate. He did not respect Blaine; on the contrary, he regarded Blaine
as a bad man: but he believed that the future of the country would be much safer under the
control of the Republican Party than under the Democratic. This doctrine exposes its adherents
to obvious criticism, if not to suspicion. It enables persons of callous consciences to support
bad platforms and bad candidates without blushing; but after all, who shall say at what point
you are justified in bolting your party? The decision must rest with the individual. And although
it was hard for the bolting Independents in 1884 to accept the tenet that party transcends
persons, it was Roosevelt's reason, and with him sincere. Some of his colleagues in the better
element who had struggled as he had to defeat Blaine, and then, almost effusively, exalted
Blaine as their standard-bearer, were less fortunate than he in having their sincerity doubted.
George William Curtis, Carl Schurz, Charles Francis Adams, and other Independents of their
intransigent temper formed a Mugwump Party and this turned the scale in electing Grover Cleveland
President.

There used to be much discussion as to who persuaded Roosevelt, although he detested Blaine,
to stand by the Republicans in 1884. Those were the days when very few of his critics understood
that, in spite of his youth, he had already thought for himself on politics and had reached
certain conclusions as to fundamental principles. These critics assumed that he must have been
won over by Henry Cabot Lodge, with whom he had been intimate since his Harvard days, and who
was supposed to be his political mentor. The truth is, however, that Roosevelt had formed his
own opinion about bolting, and that he and Lodge, in discussing possibilities before they went
to the Chicago Convention, had independently agreed that they must abide by the choice of the
party there. They held, and a majority of men in similar position still hold, that delegates
cannot in honor abandon the nominee chosen by the majority in a convention which they attend
as delegates. If the rule, "My man, or nobody," were to prevail, there would be no use in holding
conventions at all. And after that of 1884, George William Curtis, one of the chief leaders
of the Independents, admitted that Roosevelt, in staying with the Republican Party, played
the game fairly. While Curtis himself bolted and helped to organize the Mugwumps, Roosevelt,
after his trip to the West, returned to New York and took a vigorous part in the campaign.
Nevertheless, Roosevelt's decision, in 1884, to cleave to the Republican Party disappointed
many of us. We thought of him as a lost leader. Some critics in their ignorance were inclined
to impute false motives to him; but in time, the cloud of suspicion rolled away and his action
in that crisis was not laid up against him. The election of Cleveland relieved him of seeming
perfunctorily to uphold Blaine.

CHAPTER IV. NATURE THE HEALER

A perfect biography would show definitely the interaction between mind and body. At present
we can only guess what this interaction may be. In some cases the relations are evident, but
in most they are vague and often unsuspected. The psychologists, whose pretensions are so great
and whose actual results are still so small, may perhaps lead, an age or two hence, to the
desired knowledge. But the biographer of today must beware of adopting the unripe formulas
of any immature science. Nevertheless, he must watch, study, and record all the facts pertaining
to his subject, although he cannot explain them. Theodore Roosevelt was a wonderful example
of the partnership of mind and body, and any one who writes his biography in detail will do
well to pay great heed to this intricate interlocking. I can do no more than allude to it here.
We have seen that Roosevelt from his earliest days had a quick mind, happily not precocious,
and a weak body which prevented him from taking part in normal physical activity and the play
and sport of boyhood. So his intellectual life grew out of scale to his physical. Then he set
to work by the deliberate application of will-power to develop his body, and when he entered
Harvard he was above the average youth in strength. Before he graduated, those who saw him
box or wrestle beheld a fellow somewhat slim and light, but unusually well set up. During the
succeeding four years he never allowed his duties as Assemblyman to encroach upon his exercise;
on the contrary, he played regularly and he played hard, adding new kinds of sport to develop
new faculties and to give the spice of variety. He rode to hounds with the Meadowbrook Hunt;
he took up polo; and he boxed and wrestled as in his college days.

In a few years Roosevelt became physically a very powerful man. I recall my astonishment the
first time I saw him, after the lapse of several years, to find him with the neck of a Titan
and with broad shoulders and stalwart chest, instead of the city-bred, slight young friend
I had known earlier. His body was now equal to any burden or strain which his mind might have
to endure; and hence forth it is no idle fancy that suggests a perpetual competition between
the two. Thanks to his extraordinary will, however, he never allowed his body to get control;
but, as appetite comes with eating, so his strong and healthy muscles craved more and more
exercise as he used them. And now he took a novel way to gratify them.

Ever since his first taste of camp life, when he went into the Maine Woods under the guidance
of Bill Sewall and Will Dow, Roosevelt felt the lure of wild nature, and on many successive
seasons he repeated these trips. Gradually, fishing and hunting in the wilderness of Maine
or the Adirondacks did not afford him enough scope for his brimming vigor. He decided to go
West, to the real West, where great game and Indians still survived, and the conditions of
the few white men were almost as primitive as in the days of the earliest explorers. When the
session of 1883 adjourned, he started for North Dakota, then a territory with a few settlers,
and among the Bad Lands on the Little Missouri he bought an interest in two cattle ranches,
the Chimney Butte and the Elkhorn. The following year, after the Presidential campaign which
placed Cleveland in the White House, Roosevelt determined, as we saw in the letters I have
quoted, to abandon the East for a time and to devote himself to a ranchman's life. He was still
in deep grief at the loss of his wife and of his mother; there was no immediate prospect of
usefulness for him in politics; the conventions of civilization, as he knew them in New York
City, palled upon him; a sure instinct whispered to him that he must break away and seek health
of body and heart and soul among the re mote, unspoiled haunts of primeval Nature. For nearly
two years, with occasional intervals spent in the East, the Elkhorn Ranch at Medora was his
home, and he has described the life of the ranchman and cow-puncher in pages which are sure
to be read as long as posterity takes any interest in knowing about the transition of the American
West from wilderness to civilization. He shared in all the work of the ranch. He took with
a "frolic welcome" the humdrum of its routine as well as its excitements and dangers. He says
that he does not believe that there was ever any more attractive life for a vigorous young
fellow than this, and assuredly no one else has glorified it as Roosevelt did with his pen.
At one time or another he performed all the duties of a ranchman. He went on long rides after
the cattle, he rounded them up, he helped to brand them and to cut out the beeves destined
for the Eastern market. He followed the herd when it stampeded during a terrific thunderstorm.
In winter there was often need to save the wandering cattle from a sudden and deadly blizzard.
The log cabin or "shack" in which he dwelt was rough, and so was the fare; comforts were few.
He chopped the cottonwood which they used for fuel; he knew how to care for the ponies; and
once at least he passed more than twenty-four hours in the saddle without sleep. According
to the best standards, he says, he was not a fine horseman, but it is clear that he could do
everything with a horse which had to be done, and that he never stopped from fatigue. When
they needed fresh meat, he would shoot it. In short, he held his own under all the hardships
and requirements demanded of a cowboy or ranchman. To adapt himself to these wild conditions
of nature and work was, however, only a part of his experience. Even more dangerous than pursuing
a stampeding herd at night over the plains, and plunging into the Little Missouri after it,
was intercourse with some of the lawless nomads of that pioneer region. Nomads they were, though
they might settle down to work for a while on one ranch, and then pass on to another; the sort
of creatures who loafed in the saloons of the little villages and amused them selves by running
amuck and shooting up the town. These men, and indeed nearly all of the pioneers, held the
man from the civilized East, the "tenderfoot," in scorn. They took it for granted that he was
a weakling, that he had soft ideas of life and was stuck-up or affected. Now Roosevelt saw
that in order to win their trust and respect, he must show himself equal to their tasks, a
true comrade, who accepted their code of courage and honor. The fact that he wore spectacles
was against him at the outset, because they associated spectacles with Eastern schoolmasters
and incompetence. They called him "Four Eyes," at first with derision, but they soon discovered
that in him they had no "tenderfoot" to deal with. He shot as well as the best of them; he
rode as far; he never complained of food or tasks or hardship; he met every one on equal terms.
Above all, he left no doubt as to his courage. He would not pick a quarrel nor would he avoid
one. Many stories of his prowess circulated; mere heckling, or a practical joke, he took with
a laugh; as when some of the men changed the saddle from his pony to a bucking broncho.

But he knew where to draw the line. At Medora, for instance, the Marquis de Mores, a French
settler, assumed the attitude of a feudal proprietor. Having been the first to squat in that
region he regarded those who came later as interlopers, and he and his men acted very sullenly.
They even carried their ill-will and intimidation to the point of shooting. In due time the
Marquis discovered cause for grievance against Roosevelt, and he sent him a letter warning
the newcomer that if the cause were not removed the Marquis knew how one gentleman settles
a dispute with another. Roosevelt despised dueling as a silly practice, which would not determine
justice between disputants; but he knew that in Cowboy Land the duel, being regarded as a test
of courage, must not be ignored by him. Any man who declined a challenge lost caste and had
better leave the country at once. So Roosevelt within an hour dispatched a reply to the surly
Marquis saying that he was ready to meet him at any time and naming the rifle, at twelve paces'
distance, as the weapon that he preferred. The Marquis, a formidable swordsman but no shot,
sent back word, expressing regret that Mr. Roosevelt had mistaken his meaning: in referring
to "gentlemen knowing how to settle disputes," he meant that of course an amicable explanation
would restore harmony. Thenceforward, he treated Roosevelt with effusive courtesy. Perhaps
a chill ran down his back at the thought of standing up before an antagonist twelve paces away
and that the fighters were to advance towards each other three paces after each round, until
one of them was killed.

So Theodore fought no duel with either the French Marquis or with any one else during his life
in the West, but he had several encounters with local desperadoes. One cold night in winter,
having ridden far and knowing that he could reach no refuge for many hours, he unexpectedly
saw a light. Going towards it, he found that it came from a cabin which served as saloon and
tavern. On entering, he saw a group of loafers and drinkers who were apparently terrorized
by a big fellow, rather more than half drunk, who proved to be the local bully. The function
of this person was to maintain his bullyship against all comers: accordingly, he soon picked
on Roosevelt, who held his peace as long as he could. Then the rowdy, who grasped his pistols
in his hands, ordered the "four-eyed tenderfoot" to come to the bar and set up drinks for the
crowd. Roosevelt walked deliberately towards him, and before the bully suspected it, the "tenderfoot"
felled him with a sledgehammer blow. In falling, a pistol went off wide of its mark, and the
bully lay in a faint. Before he could recover, Roosevelt stood over him ready to pound him
again. But the bully did not stir, and he was carried off into another room. The crowd congratulated
the stranger on having served him right.

At another place, there was a "bad man" who surpassed the rest of his fellows in using foul
language. Roosevelt, who loathed obscenity as he did any other form of filth, tired of this
bad man's talk and told him very calmly that he liked him but not his nastiness. Instead of
drawing his gun, as the bystanders thought he would do, Jim looked sheepish, acknowledging
the charge, and changed his tone. He remained a loyal friend of his corrector. Cattle-thieves
and horse-thieves infested the West of those days. To steal a ranchman's horse might not only
cause him great annoyance, but even put his life in danger, and accordingly the rascals who
engaged in this form of crime ranked as the worst of all and received no mercy when they were
caught. If the sheriff of the region was lax, the settlers took the matter into their own hands,
enrolled themselves as vigilantes, hunted the thieves down, hanged those whom they captured,
and shot at sight those who tried to escape. It happened that the sheriff, in whose jurisdiction
Medora lay, allowed so many thieves to get off that he was suspected of being in collusion
with them. The ranch men held a meeting at which he was present and Roosevelt told him in very
plain words their complaint against him and their suspicions. Though he was a hot-tempered
man, and very quick on the trigger, he showed no willingness to shoot his bold young accuser;
he knew, of course, that the ranchmen would have taken vengeance on him in a flash, but it
is also possible that he recognized the truth of Roosevelt's accusation and felt compunctions.

Some time later Roosevelt showed how a zealous officer of the law--he was the acting deputy
sheriff - ought to behave. He had a boat in which he used to cross the Little Missouri to his
herds on the other side. One day he missed the boat, its rope having been cut, and he inferred
that it must have been stolen by three cattle-thieves who had been operating in that neighborhood.
By means of it they could easily escape, for there was no road along the river on which horsemen
could pursue them. Notwithstanding this, Roosevelt resolved that they should not go free. In
three days Bill Sewall and Dow built a flat, water-tight craft, on which they put enough food
to last for a fortnight, and then all three started downstream. They had drifted and poled
one hundred and fifty miles or more, before they saw a faint column of smoke in the bushes
near the bank. It proved to be the temporary camp of the fugitives, whom they quickly took
prisoners, put into the boat, and carried another one hundred and fifty miles down the river
to the nearest town with a jail and a court. Going and coming, Roosevelt spent nearly three
weeks, not to mention the hardships which he and his trusty men suffered on the way; but he
had served justice, and Justice must be served at any cost. When the story be came known, the
admiration of his neighbors for his pluck and persistence rose; but they wondered why he took
the trouble to make the extra journey, in order to deliver the prisoners to the jail, instead
of shooting them where he overtook them.

I chronicle these examples of Roosevelt's courage among the lawless gangs with whom he was
thrown in North Dakota, because they reveal several qualities which came to be regarded as
peculiarly Rooseveltian during the rest of his days. We are apt to speak of "mere" physical
courage as being inferior to moral courage; and doubtless there are many heroes unknown to
the world who, under the torture of disease or the poignancy of social injustice and wrongs,
deserve the highest crown of heroism. Men who would lead a charge in battle would shrink from
denouncing an accepted convention or even from slighting a popular fashion. But after all,
the instinct of the race is sound in revering those who give their lives without hesitation
or regret at the point of deadly peril, or offer their own to save the lives of others.

Roosevelt's experience established in him that physical courage which his soul had aspired
to in boyhood, when the consciousness of his bodily inferiority made him seem shy and almost
timid. Now he had a bodily frame which could back up any resolution he might take. The emergencies
in a ranchman's career also trained him to be quick to will, instantaneous in his decisions,
and equally quick in the muscular activity by which he carried them out. In a community whose
members gave way to sudden explosions of passion, you might be shot dead unless you got the
drop on the other fellow first. The anecdotes I have repeated, indicate that Roosevelt must
often have outsped his opponent in drawing.

We learn from them, too, that he was far from being the pugnacious person whom many of his
later critics insisted that he was. Having given ample proof to the frontiersmen that he had
no fear, he resolutely kept the peace with them, and they had no desire to break peace with
him. Bluster and swagger were foreign to his nature, and he loathed a bully as much as a coward.
If we had not already had the record of his. three years in the Legislature, in which he surprised
his friends by his wonderful talent for mixing with all sorts of persons, we might marvel at
his ability to meet the cowboys and ranchmen, and even the desperadoes, of the Little Missouri
on equal terms, to win the respect of all of them, and the lifelong devotion of a few. They
knew that the usual tenderfoot, however much he might wish to fraternize, was fended from them
by his past, his traditions, his civilized life, his instincts; but in Roosevelt's case, there
was no gulf, no barrier.

Even after he became President of the United States, I can no more imagine that he felt embarrassment
in meeting any one, high or low, than that he scrutinized the coat on a man's back in order
to know how to treat him.

To have gained solid health, to have gained mastery of himself, and to have put his social
nature to the severest test and found it flawless, were valid results of his life on the Elkhorn
Ranch. It imparted to him also a knowledge which was to prove most precious to him in the unforeseen
future. For it taught him the immense diversity of the people, and consequently of the interests,
of the United States. It gave him a national point of view, in which he perceived that the
standards and desires of the Atlantic States were not all-inclusive or final. Yet while it
impressed on him the importance of geographical considerations, it impressed, more deeply still,
the fact that there are moral fundamentals not to be measured by geography, or by time, or
by race. Lincoln learned this among the pioneers of Illinois; in similar fashion Roosevelt
learned it in the Bad Lands of Dakota with their pioneers and exiles from civilization, and
from studying the depths of his own nature.

CHAPTER V. BACK TO THE EAST AND LITERATURE

One September day in 1886, Roosevelt was reading a New York newspaper in his Elkhorn cabin,
when he saw that he had been nominated by a body of Independents as candidate for Mayor of
New York City. Whether he had been previously consulted or not, I do not know, but he evidently
accepted the nomination as a call, for he at once packed up his things and started East. The
political situation in the metropolis was somewhat abnormal. The United Democracy had nominated
for Mayor Abram S. Hewitt, a merchant of high standing, one of those decent persons whom Tammany
Hall puts forward to attract respectable citizens when it finds itself in a tight place and
likely to be defeated. At such a pinch, Tammany even politely keeps in the background and allows
it to appear that the decent candidate is wholly the choice of decent Democrats: for the Tammany
Tiger wears, so to speak, a reversible skin which, when turned inside out, shows neither stripes
nor claws. Mr. Hewitt's chief opponent was Henry George, put up by the United Labor Party,
which had suddenly swelled into importance, and had discovered in the author of "Progress and
Poverty" and in the advocate of the Single Tax a candidate whose private character was generally
respected, even by those who most hated his economic teachings. The mere thought that such
a Radical should be proposed for Mayor scared, not merely the Big Interests, but the owners
of real estate and intangible property.

Against these redoubtable competitors, the Independents and Republicans pitted Roosevelt, hoping
that his prestige and personal popularity would carry the day. He made a plucky campaign, but
Hewitt won, with Henry George second. In his letter of acceptance he went straight at the mark,
which was that the government of the city was strictly a business affair. " I very earnestly
deprecate," he says, "all attempts to introduce any class or caste feeling into the mayoralty
contest. Laborers and capitalists alike are interested in having an honest and economical city
government, and if elected I shall certainly strive to be the representative of all good citizens,
paying heed to nothing whatever but the general well-being."* When Tammany reverses its hide,
the Republicans in New York City need not expect victory; and in 1886 Henry George drew off
a good many votes which would ordinarily have been cast for Roosevelt.

* Riis, 101.

Nevertheless, the fight was worth making. It reintroduced him to the public, which had not
heard him for two years, and it helped erase from men's memories the fact that he had supported
Blaine in 1884. His contest with Hewitt and George set him in his true light--a Republican
by conviction, a party man, also by conviction, but above all the fearless champion of what
he believed to be the right, in its struggle against economic heresy and political corruption.

The election over, Roosevelt went to Europe, and on December 2, 1886, at St. George's, Hanover
Square, London, he married Miss Edith Kermit Carow, of New York, whom he had known since his
earliest childhood, the playmate of his sister Corinne, the little girl whose photograph had
stirred up in him "homesickness and longings for the past," when he was a little boy in Paris.
Cecil Spring-Rice, an old friend (subsequently British Ambassador at Washington), was his groomsman,
and being married at St. George's, Theodore remarks, "made me feel as if I were living in one
of Thackeray's novels."

Mrs. Roosevelt's father came of Huguenot stock, the name being originally Quereau; the first
French immigrants of the family having migrated to New York in the seventeenth century at about
the same time as Claes van Roosevelt. Like the Roosevelts, the Carows had so freely intermarried
with English stock in America that the French origin of one was as little discernible in their
descendants as was the Dutch origin of the other. Through her American line Mrs. Roosevelt
traced back to Jonathan Edwards, the prolific ancestor of many persons who emerged above the
common level by either their virtue or their badness.

After spending several months in Europe, Mr. and Mrs. Roosevelt returned and settled at Oyster
Bay, Long Island, where he had built, not long before, a country house on Sagamore Hill. His
place there comprised many acres--a beautiful country of hill and hollow and fine tall trees.
The Bay made in from Long Island Sound and seemed to be closed by the opposite shore, so that
in calm weather you might mistake it for a lake. This home was thoroughly adapted for Roosevelt's
needs. Being only thirty miles from New York, with a railroad near by, convenient but not intrusive,
it gave easy access to the city, but was remote enough to discourage casual or undesired callers.
It had sufficient land to carry on farming and to sustain the necessary horses and domestic
cattle. Mrs. Roosevelt supervised it; he simply loved it and got distraction from his more
pressing affairs; if he had chosen to withdraw from these he might have devoted himself to
the pleasing and leisurely life of a gentleman farmer. For a while his chief occupation was
literary. Into this he pitched with characteristic energy. His innate craving for self-expression
could never be satiated by speaking alone, and now, since he filled no public position which
would be a cause or perhaps an excuse for speaking, he wrote with all the more enthusiasm.

Although he was less than seven years out of college, his political career had given him a
national reputation, which helped and was helped by the vogue of his writings. The American
public had come to perceive that Theodore Roosevelt could do nothing commonplace. The truth
was, that he did many things that other men did which ceased to be commonplace only when he
did them. Scores of other young men went on hunting trips after big game in the Rockies or
the Selkirks, and even ranching had been engaged in by the enterprising and the adventurous,
who hoped to find it a short way to a fortune. But whether as ranch man or as hunter, Roosevelt
was better known than all the rest. His skill in describing his experiences no doubt largely
accounted for this; but the fact that the experiences were his, was the ultimate explanation.

Roosevelt began to write very early. He thought that the instruction in rhetoric which he received
at Harvard enlightened him, and during his Senior year he began the "History of the Naval War
of 1812," which he completed and published in 1882. This work at once won recognition for him,
and it differed from the traditional accounts, embedded in the school histories of the United
States, in doing full justice to the British naval operations. Probably, for the first time,
our people realized that the War of 1812 had not been a series of victories, startling and
irresistible, for the American Navy. Nearly ten years later, Roosevelt in the "Winning of the
West" made his second excursion into history. These volumes, which eventually numbered six,
are regarded by experts in the subject as of great value, and I suppose that in them Roosevelt
did more than any other writer to popularize the study of the historical origin and development
of the vast region west of the Alleghanies which now forms a vital part of the American Republic.
One attribute of a real historian is the power to discern the structural or pregnant quality
of historic periods and episodes; and this power Roosevelt displayed in choosing both the War
of 1812 and the Winning of the West.

In his larger history Roosevelt had a swift, energetic, and direct style. He never lacked for
ideas. Descriptions came to him with exuberant details of which he selected enough to leave
his reader with the feeling that he had looked on a vivid and accurate picture. Here, for instance,
is a portrait of Daniel Boon which seems remarkably lifelike, because I remember how difficult
other writers find it to individualize most of the figures of the pioneers.

The backwoodsmen, he says, "all tilled their own clearings, guiding the plow among the charred
stumps left when the trees were chopped down and the land burned over, and they were all, as
a matter of course, hunters. With Boon, hunting and exploration were passions, and the lonely
life of the wilderness, with its bold, wild freedom, the only existence for which he really
cared. He was a tall, spare, sinewy man, with eyes like an eagle's, and muscles that never
tired; the toil and hardship of his life made no impress on his iron frame, unhurt by intemperance
of any kind, and he lived for eighty-six years, a backwoods hunter to the end of his days.
His thoughtful, quiet, pleasant face, so often portrayed, is familiar to every one; it was
the face of a man who never blustered or bullied, who would neither inflict nor suffer any
wrong, and who had a limitless fund of fortitude, endurance, and indomitable resolution upon
which to draw when fortune proved adverse. His self-command and patience, his daring, restless
love of adventure, and, in time of danger, his absolute trust in his own powers and resources,
all combined to render him peculiarly fitted to follow the career of which he was so fond."*

* Winning of the West, 1, 137, 138 (ed. 1889).

Roosevelt contributed two volumes to the American Statesmen Series, one on Thomas Hart Benton
in 1886, and the other on Gouverneur Morris in 1887. The environment and careers of these two
men--the Missouri Senator of the first half of the nineteenth century, and the New York financier
of the last half of the eighteenth--afforded him scope for treating two very diverse subjects.
He was himself rooted in the old New York soil and he had come, through his life in the West,
to divine the conditions of Benton's days. Once again, many years later (1900) he tried his
hand at biography, taking Oliver Cromwell for his hero, and making a summary, impressionistic
sketch of him. Besides the interest this biography has for students of Cromwell, it has also
interest for students of Roosevelt, for it is a specimen of the sort of by-products he threw
off in moments of relaxation.

More characteristic than such excursions into history and biography, however, are his many
books describing ranch-life and hunting. In the former, he gives you truthful descriptions
of the men of the West as he saw them, and in the latter he recounts his adventures with elk
and buffalo, wolves and bears. The mere trailing and killing of these creatures do not satisfy
him. He studies with equal zest their haunts and their habits. The naturalist in him, which
we recognized in his youth, found this vent in his maturity. And long years afterward, on his
expeditions to Africa and to Brazil he dealt even more exuberantly with the natural history
of the countries which he visited.

Two other classes of writings make up Roosevelt's astonishing output. He gathered his essays
and addresses into half a dozen volumes, remarkable alike for the wide variety of their subjects,
and for the vigor with which he seized on each subject as if it was the one above all others
which most absorbed him. Finally, skim the collection of his official messages, as Commissioner,
as Governor, or as President, and you will discover that he had the gift of infusing life and
color into the usually drab and cheerless wastes of official documents.

I am not concerned to make a literary appraisal of Theodore Roosevelt's manifold works, but
I am struck by the fact that our professional critics ignore him entirely in their summaries
or histories of recent American literature. As I re-read, after twenty years, and in some cases
after thirty years, books of his which made a stir on their appearance, I am impressed, not
only by the excellence of their writing, but by their lasting quality. If he had not done so
many other things of greater importance, and done them supremely, he would have secured lasting
fame by his books on hunting, ranching, and exploration. No other American compares with him,
and I know of no other, in English at least, who has made a contribution in these fields equal
to his.

Throughout these eight or ten volumes he proves himself to be one of those rare writers who
see what they write. As in the case of Tennyson, than whom no English poet, in spite of nearsightedness,
has observed so minutely the tiniest details of form or the faintest nuance of color, so the
lack of normal vision did not prevent Roosevelt from being the closest of observers. He was
also, by the way, a good shot with rifle or pistol. If you read one of his chapters in "Hunting
the Grizzly" and ask yourself wherein its animation and attraction lie, you will find that
it is because every sentence and every line report things seen. He does not, like the Realist,
try to get a specious lifelikeness by heaping up banal and commonplace facts; he selects. His
imagination reminds one of the traveling spark which used to run along the great chandelier
in the theatre, and light each jet, so that its passage seemed a flight from point to point
of brilliance. Wherever he focuses his survey a spot glows vividly.

The eye, the master sense of the mind, thus dominates him, and I think that we shall trace
to its mastery much of the immediate power which he exerted by his writings and speeches on
public, social, and moral topics. He struck off, in the heat of composition or of speaking,
phrases and similes which millions caught up eagerly and made as familiar as household words.
He even remembered from his extensive reading some item which, when applied by him to the affair
of the moment, acquired new pertinence and a second life. Thus, Bunyan's " muckraker" lives
again; thus, "the curse of Meroz," and many another Bible reference, springs up with a fresh
meaning.

No doubt the purist will find occasional lapses in taste or expression, and the quibbling peddler
of rhetoric will gloat over some doubtful construction; but neither purist nor peddler of rhetoric
has ever been able in his writing to display the ease, the rush, the naturalness, the sparkle
which were as genuine in Roosevelt as were the features of his face. On reading these pages,
which have escaped the attention of the professional critics, I wonder whether they may not
have a fate similar to Defoe's; for Defoe also was read voraciously by his contemporaries,
his pamphlets made a great rustle in their time, and then the critics turned to other and spicier
writers. But in due season, other critics, as well as the world, made the discovery that only
a genius could have produced Defoe's "every-day," "commonplace" style.

His innate vigor, often swelling into vehemence, marks also Roosevelt's political essays, and
yet he had time for reflection, and if you examine closely even some of his combative passages,
you will see that they do not spring from sudden anger or scorn, but from a conviction which
has matured slowly in him. He had not the philosophic calm which formed the background of Burke's
political masterpieces, but he had the clearness, the simplicity, by which he could drive home
his thoughts into the minds of the multitude. Burke spoke and wrote for thousands and for posterity;
Roosevelt addressed millions for the moment, and let posterity do what it would with his burning
appeals and invectives. He was not so absolutely self-effacing as Lincoln, but I think that
he realized to the full the meaning of Lincoln's phrase, "the world will little note, nor long
remember what we may say here," and that he would have made it his motto. For he, like all
truly great statesmen, was so immensely concerned in winning today's battle, that he wasted
no time in speculating what tomorrow, or next year, or next century would say about it. Mysticism,
the recurrent fad which indicates that its victims neither see clear nor think straight, could
not spread its veils over him. The man who visualizes is safe from that intellectual weakness
and moral danger. But although Roosevelt felt the sway of the true emotions, he allowed only
his intimates to know what he held most intimate and sacred. He felt also the charm of beauty,
and over and over again in his descriptions of hunting and riding in the West, he pauses to
recall beautiful scenery or some unusual bit of landscape; and even in remembering his passage
down the River of Doubt, when he came nearer to death than he ever came until he died, in spite
of tormenting pain and desperate anxiety for his companions, he mentions more than once the
loveliness of the river scene or of the massed foliage along its banks. Naturalist though he
was, bent first on studying the habits of birds and animals, he yet took keen delight in the
iridescent plumage or graceful form or the beautiful fur of bird and beast.

The quality of a writer can best be judged by reading a whole chapter, or two or three, of
his book, but sometimes he reveals a phase of himself in a single paragraph. Read, for instance,
this brief extract from Roosevelt's "Through the Brazilian Wilderness," if you would understand
some of the traits which I have just alluded to. It comes at the end of his long and dismaying
exploration of the River of Doubt, when the party was safe at last, and the terrible river
was about to flow into the broad, lakelike Amazon, and Manaos was almost in sight, where civilization
could be laid hold on again, Manaos, whence the swift ships went steaming towards the Atlantic
and the Atlantic opened a clear path home. He says:

'The North was calling strongly the three men of the North--Rocky Dell Farm to Cherrie, Sagamore
Hill to me; and to Kermit the call was stronger still. After nightfall we could now see the
Dipper well above the horizon--upside down with the two pointers pointing to a North Star below
the world's rim; but the Dipper, with all its stars. In our home country spring had now come,
the wonderful Northern spring of long, glorious days, of brooding twilight, of cool, delightful
nights. Robin and bluebird, meadow-lark and song-sparrow were singing in the mornings at home;
the maple buds were red; windflowers and bloodroot were blooming while the last patches of
snow still lingered; the rapture of the hermit thrush in Vermont, the serene golden melody
of the wood thrush on Long Island, would be heard before we were there to listen. Each was
longing for the homely things that were so dear to him, for the home people who were dearer
still, and for the one who was dearest of all.' *

* Through the Brazilian Wilderness, 320.

CHAPTER VI. APPLYING MORALS TO POLITICS

I have said that Roosevelt devoted the two years after he came back to New York to writing,
but it would be a mistake to imagine that writing alone busied him. He was never a man who
did or would do only one thing at a time. His immense energy craved variety, and in variety
he found recreation. Now that the physical Roosevelt had caught up in relative strength with
the intellectual, he could take what holidays requiring exhaustless bodily vigor he chose.
The year seldom passed now when he did not go West for a month or two. Bill Sewall and Wilmot
Dow were established with their families on the Elkhorn Ranch, which Roosevelt continued to
own, although, I believe, like many ranches at that period, it ceased to be a good investment.
Sometimes he made a hurried dash to southern Texas, or to the Selkirks, or to Montana in search
of new sorts of game. In the mountains he indulged in climbing, but this was not a favorite
with him because it offered less sport in proportion to the fatigue. While he was still a young
man he had gone up the Matterhorn and Mont Blanc, feats which still required endurance, although
they did not involve danger.

While we think of him, therefore, as dedicating himself to his literary work--the "Winning
of the West" and the accounts of ranch life--we must remember that he had leisure for other
things. He watched keenly the course of politics, for instance, and in 1888 when the Republicans
nominated Benjamin Harrison as their candidate for President, Roosevelt supported him effectively
and took rank with the foremost Republican speakers of the campaign. After his election Harrison,
who both recognized Roosevelt's great ability and felt under obligation to him, wished to offer
him the position of an under-secretary in the State Department; but Blaine, who was slated
for Secretary of State, had no liking for the young Republican whose coolness in 1884 he had
not forgotten. So Harrison invited Roosevelt to be a Civil Service Commissioner. The position
had never been conspicuous; its salary was not large; its duties were of the routine kind which
did not greatly tax the energies of the Commissioners, who could never hope for fame, but only
for the approval of their own consciences for whatever good work they did. The Machine Republicans,
whether of national size, or of State or municipal, were glad to know that Roosevelt would
be put out of the way in that office.

They already thought of him as a young man dangerous to all Machines and so they felt the prudence
of bottling him up. To make him a Civil Service Commissioner was not exactly so final as chloroforming
a snarling dog would be, but it was a strong measure of safety. Theodore's friends, on the
other hand, advised him against accepting the appointment, because, they said, it would shelve
him, politically, use up his brains which ought to be spent on higher work, and allow the country
which was just beginning to know him to forget his existence. Men drop out of sight so quickly
at Washington unless they can stand on some pedestal which raises them above the multitude.

The Optimist of the future, to hasten whose coming we are all making the world so irresistibly
attractive, will be endowed, let us hope, with a sense of humor. With that, he can read history
as a cosmic joke-book, and not as the Biography of the Devil, as many of us moderns, besides
Jean Paul, have found it. How long it has taken, and how much blood has been spilt before this
or that most obvious folly has been abolished! With what absurd tenacity have men flown in
the face of reason and flouted common sense! So our Optimist, looking into the conditions which
made Civil Service Reform imperative, will shed tears either of pity or of laughter.

As long ago as the time of the cave-dweller, who was clothed in shaggy hair instead of in broadcloth
or silk, prehistoric man learned that the best arrow or spear was that tipped with the best
piece of flint. In brief, to do good work, you must have good tools. Translated into the terms
of today, this means that the expert or specialist must be preferred to the untrained. In nearly
all walks of life this truth was taken for granted, except in affairs connected with government
and administration. A President might be elected, not because he was experienced in these matters,
but because he had won a battle, or was the compromise candidate between two other aspirants.
As it was with Presidents, so with the Cabinet officers, Congressmen, and State and city officials.
Fitness being ignored as a qualification to office, made it easy for favoritism and selfish
motives to determine the appointment of the army of employees required in the bureaus and departments.
That good old political freebooter, Andrew Jackson, merely put into words what his predecessors
had put into practice: "To the victors belong the spoils." And since his time, more than one
upright and intelligent theorist on government has supported the Party System even to the point
where the enjoyment of the spoils by the victors seems justified. The "spoils" were the salaries
paid to the lower grade of placemen and women--salaries usually not very large, but often far
above what those persons could earn in honest competition. As the money came out of the public
purse, why worry? And how could party enthusiasm during the campaign and at the polls be kept
up, if some of the partisans might not hope for tangible rewards for their services? Many rich
men sat in Congress, and the Senate be came, proverbially, a millionaires' club. But not one
of these plutocrats conducted the private business which made him rich by the methods to which
he condemned the business administration of the government. He did not fill his counting-room
with shirkers and incompetents; he did not find sinecures for his wife's poor relations; he
did not pad his payroll with parasites whose characteristics were an itching palm and an unconquerable
aversion to work. He knew how to select the quickest, cleverest, most industrious assistants,
and through them he prospered.

That a man who had sworn to uphold and direct his government to the best of his ability, should
have the conscience to treat his country as he did not treat himself, can be easily explained:
he had no conscience. Fashion, like a local anaesthetic, deadens the sensitiveness of conscience
in this or that spot; and the prevailing fashion under all governments, autocratic or democratic,
has permitted the waste and even the dishonest application of public funds.

These anomalies at last roused the sense of humor of some of our citizens, just as the injustice
and dishonesty which the system embodied roused the moral sense of others; and the Reform of
the Civil Service--a dream at first, and then a passionate cause which the ethical would not
let sleep--came into being. But to the politicians of the old type, the men of "inflooence"
and "pull," the project seemed silly. They ridiculed it, and they expected to make it ridiculous
in the eyes of the American people, by calling it "Snivel" Service Reform. Zealots, however,
cannot be silenced by mockery. The contention that fitness should have something to do in the
choice of public servants was effectively confirmed by the scientific departments of the government.
The most shameless Senator would not dare to propose his brother's widow to lead an astronomical
expedition, or to urge the appointment of the ward Boss of his city as Chairman of the Coast
Survey. So the American people perceived that there were cases in which the Spoils System did
not apply. The reformers pushed ahead; Congress at last took notice, and a law was passed bringing
a good many appointees in the Post Office and other departments under the Merit System. The
movement then gained ground slowly and the spoilsmen began to foresee that if it spread to
the extent which seemed likely, it would deprive them of much of their clandestine and corrupting
power. Senator Roscoe Conkling, one of the wittiest and most brazen of these, remarked, that
when Dr. Johnson told Boswell that "patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel," he had not
sounded the possibilities of "reform."

The first administration of President Cleveland, who was a great, irremovable block of stubbornness
in whatever cause he thought right, gave invaluable help to this one. The overturn of the Republican
Party, after it had held power for twenty-four years, entailed many changes in office and in
all classes of office-holders. Cleveland had the opportunity, therefore, of applying the Merit
System as far as the law had carried it, and his actions gave Civil Service Reformers much
though not complete satisfaction. The movement was just at the turning-point when Roosevelt
was appointed Commissioner in 1 889. Under listless or timid direction it would have flagged
and probably lost much ground; but Roosevelt could never do anything listlessly and whatever
he pushed never lost ground.

The Civil Service Commission appointed by President Harrison consisted of three members, of
whom the President was C. R. Procter, later Charles Lyman, with Roosevelt and Hugh Thompson,
an ex-Confederate soldier. I do not disparage Roosevelt's colleagues when I say that they were
worthy persons who did not claim to have an urgent call to reform the Civil Service, or anything
else. They were not of the stuff which leads revolts or reforms, but they were honest and did
their duty firmly. They stood by Roosevelt "shoulder to shoulder," and Thompson's mature judgment
restrained his impetuosity. Roosevelt always acknowledged what he owed to the Southern gentleman.
In a very short time the Commission, Congress, and the public learned that it was Roosevelt,
the youngest member, just turned thirty years of age, who steered the Commission. Hostile critics
would say, of course, that he usurped the leadership; but I think that this is inaccurate.
It was not his conceit or ambition, it was destiny working through him, which made where he
sat the head of the table. Being tremendously interested in this cause and incomparably abler
than Lyman or Thompson, he naturally did most of the work, and his decisions shaped their common
policy. The appeal to his sense of humor and his sense of justice stimulated him, and being
a man who already saw what large consequences sometimes flow from small causes he must have
been buoyed up by the thought that any of the cases which came before him might set a very
important precedent.

Roosevelt acted on the principle that the office holder who swears to carry out a law must
do this without hesitation or demur. If the law is good, enforcing it will make its goodness
apparent to everybody; if it is bad, it will become the more quickly odious and need to be
repealed. Roosevelt enforced the Civil Service Law with the utmost rigor. It called for the
examination of candidates for office, and the examiners paid some heed to their moral fitness.
Its opponents tried to stir up public opinion against it by circulating what purported to be
some of its examination papers. Why, they asked, should a man who wished to be a letter-carrier
in Keokuk, be required to give a list of the Presidents of the United States? Or what was the
shortest route for a letter going from Bombay to Yokohama? By these and similar spurious questions
the spoilsmen hoped to get rid of the reformers. But "shrewd slander," as Roosevelt called
it, could not move him. Two specimen cases will suffice to show how he reduced shrewd slanderers
to confusion. The first was Charles Henry Grosvenor, an influential Republican Congressman
from Ohio, familiarly known as the "Gentle Shepherd of Ohio," because of his efforts to raise
the tariff on wool for the benefit of the owners of the few thousand sheep in that State. A
Congressional Committee was investigating the Civil Service Commission and Roosevelt asked
that Grosvenor, who had attacked it, might be summoned. Grosvenor, however, did not appear,
but when he learned that Roosevelt was going to his Dakota ranch for a vacation, he sent word
that he would come. Nevertheless, this gallant act failed to save him, for Roosevelt canceled
his ticket West, and confronted Grosvenor at the investigation. When Roosevelt pointed out
the inconsistency of the two statements, Grosvenor declared that they meant the same thing.

Being caught thus by one foot in Roosevelt's mantrap, he quickly proceeded to be caught by
the other. He declared that Rufus P. Putnam, one of the candidates in dispute, had never lived
in Grosvenor's Congressional district, or even in Ohio. With both feet caught in the man-trap,
the Gentle Shepherd was suffering much pain, but Truth is so great a stranger to spoilsmen
that he found difficulty in getting within speaking distance of her. For he protested, first,
that he never wrote the letter, next, that he had forgotten that he wrote it, and finally,
that he was misinformed when he wrote it. So far as appears, he never risked a tilt with the
smiling young Commissioner again, but returned to his muttons and their fleeces.

A still more distinguished personage fell before the enthusiastic Commissioner. This was Arthur
Pue Gorman, a Senator from Maryland, a Democrat, one of the most pertinacious agents of the
Big Interests in the United States Congress. Evidently, also, he served them well, as they
kept him in the Senate for nearly twenty-five years, until his death. They employed Democrats
as well as Republicans, just as they subscribed to both Democratic and Republican campaign
funds. For, "in politics there is no politics." Gorman, who knew that the Spoils System was
almost indispensable to the running of a political machine, waited for a chance to attack the
Civil Service Commission. Thinking that the propitious moment had come, he inveighed against
it in the Senate.

Gorman was unaware that the Commissioners kept records of all their examinations, and when
Roosevelt wrote him a polite note inquiring the name of the "bright young man from Baltimore,"
Gorman did not reply. Roosevelt also asked him, in case he shrank from giving the name of his
informant, to give the date when the alleged examination took place. Accordingly, Roosevelt
made a public statement that the Commissioners had never asked the questions which Gorman alleged.
Gorman waited until the next session of Congress and then, in a speech before the Senate, complained
that he had received a very "impudent" letter from Commissioner Roosevelt "cruelly" calling
him to account, when he was simply endeavoring to right a great wrong which the Commission
had committed.

Roosevelt must have chuckled with a righteous exultation at such evidence as this that the
Lord had delivered the Philistines into his hands; and his abomination of the Spoils System
must have deepened when he saw its Grosvenors and its Gormans brazen out the lies he caught
them telling.

When the spoilsmen failed to get rid of the Commission by ridicule and by open attack, they
resorted to the trick of not appropriating money for it in this or that district. But this
did not succeed, for the Commission, owing to lack of funds, held no examinations in those
districts, and therefore no candidates from them could get offices. This made the politicians
unpopular with the hungry office-seekers whom they deprived of their food at the public trough.

The Commission had to struggle, however, not only to keep unfit candidates out of office, but
to keep in office those who discharged their duty honestly and zealously. After every election
there came a rush of Congressmen and others, to turn out the tried and trusty employees and
to put in their own applicants. Such an overturn was of course detrimental to the service;
first, because it substituted greenhorns for trained employees, and next, because it introduced
the haphazard of politicians' whims for a just scheme of promotion and retention in office.
Roosevelt lamented bitterly over the injustice and he denounced the waste. Many cases of grievous
hardship came to his notice. Widows, whose only means of support for themselves and their little
children was their salary, were thrown upon the street in order that rapacious politicians
might secure places for their henchmen. Roosevelt might plead, but the politician remained
obdurate. What was the tragic lot of a widow and starving children compared with keeping promises
with greedy "heelers"? Roosevelt saw that there was no redress except through the extension
of the classified service. This he urged at all times, and ten years later, when he was himself
President, he added more than fifty thousand offices to the list of those which the spoilsmen
could not clutch.

He served six years as Civil Service Commissioner, being reappointed in 1892 by President Cleveland.
The overturn in parties which made Cleveland President for the second time, enabled Roosevelt
to watch more closely the working of the Reform System and he did what he could to safeguard
those Government employees who were Republicans from being ousted for the benefit of Democrats.
In general, he believed in laying down certain principles on the tenure of office and in standing
resolutely by them. Thus, in 1891, under Harrison, on being urged to retain General Corse,
the excellent Democratic Postmaster of Boston, he replied to his friend Curtis Guild that Corse
ought to be continued as a matter of principle and not because Cleveland, several years before,
had retained Pearson, the Republican Postmaster of New York, as an exception.

At the end of six years, Roosevelt felt that he had worked on the Commission long enough to
let the American people understand how necessary it was to maintain and extend the Merit System
in the Civil Service. A sudden access of virtue had just cast out the Tammany Ring in New York
City and set up Mr. Strong, a Reformer, as Mayor. He wished to secure Roosevelt's help and
Roosevelt was eager to give it. The Mayor offered him the headship of the Street Cleaning Department,
but this he declined, not because he thought the place beneath him, but because he lacked the
necessary scientific qualifications, and Mayor Strong, was lucky in finding for it the best
man in the country, Colonel George E. Waring. Accordingly, the Mayor ap pointed Roosevelt President
of the Board of Police Commissioners, and he accepted.

The Police System in New York City in 1895, when Roosevelt took control, was a monstrosity
which, in almost every respect, did exactly the opposite from what the Police System is organized
to do. Moral values had been so perverted that it took a strong man to hold fast to the rudimentary
distinctions between Good and Evil. The Police existed, in theory, to protect the lives and
property of respectable citizens; to catch law-breakers and hand them over to the courts for
punishment; to hunt down gamblers, swindlers, and all the other various criminals and purveyors
of vice. In reality, the Police under Tammany abetted crime and protected the vicious. This
they did, not because they had any special hostility to Virtue--they probably knew too little
about it to form a dispassionate opinion any way--but because Vice paid better. They held the
cynical view that human nature will always breed a great many persons having a propensity to
licentious or violent habits; that laws were made to check and punish these persons, and that
they might go their pernicious ways unmolested if the Police took no notice of them. So the
Police established a system of immunity which anybody could enjoy by paying the price. Notorious
gambling-hells "ran wide open" after handing the required sum to the high police official who
extorted it. Hundreds of houses of ill-fame carried on their hideous traffic undisturbed, so
long as the Police Captain of the district received his weekly bribe. Gangs of roughs, toughs,
and gunmen pursued their piratical business without thinking of the law, for they shared their
spoils with the supposed officers of the law. And there were more degenerate miscreants still,
who connived with the Police and went unscathed. As if the vast sums collected from these willing
bribers were not enough, the Police added a system of blackmail to be levied on those who were
not deliberately vicious, but who sought convenience. If you walked downtown you found the
sidewalk in front of certain stores almost barricaded by packing-boxes, whereas next door the
way might be clear. This simply meant that the firm which wished to use the sidewalk for its
private advantage paid the policeman on that beat, and he looked the other way. As there was
an ordinance against almost every conceivable thing, so the Police had a price for making every
ordinance a dead letter. Was this a cosmic joke, a nightmare of cynicism, a delusion? No, New
York was classed in the reference books as a Christian city, and this was its Christianity.

Roosevelt knew the seamless bond which connected the crime and vice of the city with corrupt
politics. The party Bosses, Republicans and Democrats alike, were the final profiters from
police blackmail and bribery. As he held his mandate from a Reform Administration, he might
expect to be aided by it on the political side; at least, he did not fear that the heads of
the other departments would secretly work to block his purification of the Police. A swift
examination showed him that the New York Police Department actually protected the criminals
and promoted every kind of iniquity which it existed to put down. It was as if in a hospital
which should cure the sick, the doctors, instead of curing disease, should make the sick worse
and should make the well sick. How was Roosevelt, equally valiant and honest, to conquer this
Hydra? He took the straight way dictated by common sense. First of all, he gained the confidence
and respect of his men. He said afterwards, that even at its worst, when he went into office,
the majority of the Police wanted to do right; that their instincts were loyal; and this meant
much, because they were tempted on all sides by vicious wrongdoers; they had constantly before
them the example of superiors who took bribes and they received neither recognition nor praise
for their own worthy deeds.

The Force came very soon to understand that under Roosevelt every man would get a "square deal."
"Pulls" had no efficacy. The Chief Commissioner personally kept track of as many men as he
could. When he saw in the papers one morning that Patrolman X had saved a woman from drowning,
he looked him up, found that the man had been twenty-two years in the service, had saved twenty
five lives, and had never been noticed, much less thanked, by the Commission. More than this,
he had to buy his own uniform, and as this was often rendered unfit for further use when he
rescued persons from drowning, or from a burning house, his heroism cost him much in dollars
and cents. By Roosevelt's orders the Department henceforth paid for new uniforms in such cases,
and it awarded medals. By recognizing the good, and by weeding out as fast as possible the
bad members of the Force, Roosevelt thus organized the best body of Police which New York City
had ever seen. There were, of course, some black sheep among them whom he could not reach,
but he changed the fashion, so that it was no longer a point of excellence to be a black sheep.

Roosevelt rigorously enforced the laws, without regard to his personal opinion. It happened
that at that time the good people of New York insisted that liquor saloons should do no business
on Sundays. This prohibition had long been on the statute book, but it had been generally evaded
because the saloon keepers had paid the Bosses, who controlled the Police Department, to let
them keep open--usually by a side door--on Sundays. Indeed, the statute was evidently passed
by the Bosses in order to widen their opportunity for blackmail; but in this they overreached
themselves. Croker and his pals, taking it as a matter of course that the public knew their
methods, neither denied this incriminating statement nor thought it worth noticing. For a while
all the saloons enjoyed equal immunity in selling drinks on Sunday. Then came Roosevelt and
ordered his men to close every saloon. Many of the bar-keepers laughed incredulously at the
patrol man who gave the order; many others flew into a rage. The public denounced this attempt
to strangle its liberties and reviled the Police Chief as the would be enforcer of obsolescent
blue laws. But they could not frighten Roosevelt: the saloons were closed. Nevertheless, even
he could not prevail against the overwhelming desire for drink. Crowds of virtuous citizens
preferred. an honest police force, but they preferred their beer or their whiskey still more,
and joined with the criminal classes, the disreputables, and all the others who regarded any
law as outrageous which interfered with their personal habits. Accordingly, since they could
not budge Roosevelt, they changed the law. A compliant local judge discovered that it was lawful
to take what drink you chose with a meal, and the result was that, as Roosevelt describes it,
a man by eating one pretzel might drink seventeen beers.

Roosevelt himself visited all parts of the city and chiefly those where Vice grew flagrant
at night. The journalists, who knew of his tours of inspection and were always on the alert
for the picturesque, likened him to the great Caliph who in similar fashion investigated Baghdad,
and they nicknamed him Haroun al Roosevelt. He had for his companion Jacob Riis, a remarkable
Dane who migrated to this country in youth, got the position of reporter on one of the New
York dailies, frequented the courts, studied the condition of the abject poor in the tenement-houses,
and the haunts where Vice breeds like scum on stagnant pools, and wrote a book, "How the Other
Half Lives," which startled the consciences of the well-to-do and the virtuous. Riis showed
Roosevelt everything. Police headquarters were in Mulberry Street, and yet within a stone's
throw iniquity flourished. He guided him through the Tenderloin District, and the wharves,
and so they made the rounds of the vast city. More than once Roosevelt surprised a shirking
patrolman on his beat, but his purpose they all knew was to see justice done, and to keep the
officers of the Force up to the highest standard of duty.

One other anecdote concerning his experience as Police Commissioner I repeat, because it shows
by what happy touches of humor he sometimes dispersed menacing clouds. A German Jew-baiter,
Rector Ahlwardt, came over from Berlin to preach a crusade against the Jews. Great trepidation
spread through the Jewish colony and they asked Roosevelt to forbid Ahlwardt from holding public
meetings against them. This, he saw, would make a martyr of the German persecutor and probably
harm the Jews more than it would help them. So Roosevelt bethought him of a device which worked
perfectly. He summoned forty of the best Jewish policemen on the Force and ordered them to
preserve order in the hall and prevent Ahlwardt from being interrupted or abused. The meeting
passed off without disturbance; Ahlwardt stormed in vain against the Jews; the audience and
the public saw the humor of the affair and Jew-baiting gained no foothold in New York City.
Although Roosevelt thoroughly enjoyed his work as Police Commissioner, he felt rightly that
it did not afford him the freest scope to exercise his powers. Much as he valued executive
work, the putting into practice and carrying out of laws, he felt more and more strongly the
desire to make them, and his instinct told him that he was fitted for this higher task. When,
therefore, the newly elected Republican President, William McKinley, offered him the apparently
modest position of Assistant Secretary of the Navy, he accepted it.

There was general grieving in New York City--except among the criminals and Tammany--at the
news of his resignation. All sorts of persons expressed regrets that were really sincere, and
their gratitude for the good which he had done for them all. Some of them protested that he
ought not to abandon the duty which he had discharged so valiantly. One of these was Edwin
L. Godkin, editor of The Nation and the New York Evening Post, a critic who seldom spoke politely
of anything except ideals which had not been attained, or commended persons who were not dead
and so beyond reach of praise.

Godkin was a great power for good, in spite of the obvious unpopularity which an incessant
critic cannot fail to draw down upon himself. The most pessimistic of us secretly crave a little
respite when for half an hour we may forget the circumambient and all-pervading gloom: music,
or an entertaining book, or a dear friend lifts the burden from us. And then comes our uncompromising
pessimist and chides us for our softness and for letting ourselves be led astray from our pessimism.
His jeremiads are probably justified, and as the historian looks back he finds that they give
the truest statement of the past; for the present must be very bad, indeed, if it does not
discover conditions still worse in the past from which it has emerged. But Godkin living could
not escape from two sorts of unsympathetic depreciators: first, the wicked who smarted under
his just scourge, and next, the upright, who tired of unremittent censure, although they admitted
that it was just.

Roosevelt came, quite naturally, to set the doer above the critic, who, he thought, quickly
degenerated into a fault finder and from that into a common scold. When a man plunges into
a river to save somebody from drowning, if you do not plunge in yourself, at least do not jeer
at him for his method of swimming. So Roosevelt, who shrank from no bodily or moral risk himself,
held in scorn the "timid good," the " acidly cantankerous," the peace-at-any-price people,
and the entire tribe of those who, instead of attacking iniquities and abuses, attacked those
who are desperately engaged in fighting these, For this reason he probably failed to absorb
from Godkin's criticism some of the benefit which it might have brought him. The pills were
bitter, but salutary. While he was Police Commissioner one of Joseph Choate's epigrams passed
current and is still worth recalling. When some one remarked that New York was a very wicked
city, Choate replied, "How can you expect it to be otherwise, when Dana makes Vice so attractive
in the Sun every morning, and Godkin makes Virtue so odious in the Post every afternoon?" Charles
A. Dana, the editor of the Sun, the stanch supporter of Tammany Hall, and the apologist of
almost every evil movement for nearly thirty years, was a writer of diabolical cleverness whose
newspaper competed with Godkin's among the intellectual readers in search of amusement. At
one time, when Godkin had been particularly caustic, and the Mugwumps at Harvard were unusually
critical, Roosevelt attended a committee meeting at the University. After talking with President
Eliot, he went and sat by a professor, and remarked, play fully, "Eliot is really a good fellow
at heart. Do you suppose that, if he bit Godkin, it would take?" So Roosevelt went back to
Washington to be henceforth, as it proved, a national figure whose career was to be forever
embedded in the structural growth of the United States.

CHAPTER VII. THE ROUGH RIDER

When Roosevelt returned to Washington in March, 1897, to take up his duties as a subordinate
officer in the National Government, he was thirty-eight years old; a man in the prime of life,
with the strength of an ox, but quick in movement, and tough in endurance. A rapid thinker,
his intellect seemed as impervious to fatigue as was his energy. Along with this physical and
intellectual make up went courage of both kinds, passion for justice, and a buoying sense of
obligation towards his fellows and the State. His career thus far had prepared him for the
highest service. Born and brought up amid what our society classifiers, with their sure democratic
instincts, loved to call the "aristocratic" circle in New York, his three years in the Assembly
at Albany introduced him to the motley group of Representatives of high and low, bank presidents
and farmers, blacklegs and philanthropists, who gathered there to make the laws for New York
State. There he displayed the preference, characteristic of him through life, of choosing his
intimates irrespective of their occupation or social label. Then he went out on the Plains
and learned to live with wild men, for whom the artificial distinctions of civilization had
no meaning. He adapted himself to a primeval standard in which courage and a rough sense of
honor were the chief virtues. But this experience did still more for him than prove his personal
power of getting along with such lower types of men, for it revealed to him the human extremes
of the American Nation. How vast it was, how varied, how intricate, and, potentially, how sublime!
Lincoln, coming out of the Kentucky back woods, first to Springfield, Illinois, then to Chicago
in its youth, and finally to Washington, similarly passed in review the American contrasts
of his time. More specific was Roosevelt's training as a Civil Service Commissioner. The public
had been applauding him as a youthful prodigy, as a fellow of high spirit, of undisputed valor,
of brilliant flashes, of versatility, but the worldly-wise, who have been too often fooled,
were haunted by the suspicion that perhaps this astonishing young man would turn out to be
only a meteor after all. His six years of routine work on the Civil Service Commission put
this anxiety to rest. That work could not be carried on successfully by a man of moods and
spurts, but only by a man of solid moral basis, who could not be disheartened by opposition
or deflected by threats or by temptations, and, as I have before suggested, the people began
to accustom itself to the fact that whatever position Roosevelt filled was conspicuous precisely
because he filled it. A good while was still to elapse before we understood that notoriety
was inseparable from him, and did not need to be explained by the theory that he was constantly
setting traps for self-advertisement.

As Police Commissioner of New York City he continued his familiar methods, and deepened the
impression he had created. He carried boldness to the point of audacity and glorified the "square
deal." Whatever he undertook, he drove through with the remorselessness of a zealot. He made
no pretense of treating humbugs and shams as if they were honest and real; and when he found
that the laws which were made to punish criminals, were used to protect them, no scruple prevented
him from achieving the spirit of the law, although he might disregard its perverted letter.

Ponder this striking example. The City of New York forbade the sale of liquor to minors. But
this ordinance was so completely unobserved that a large proportion of the common drunks brought
before the Police Court were lads and even young girls, to whom the bar-tenders sold with impunity.
The children, often the little children of depraved parents, "rushed the growler"; factory
hands sent the boys out regularly to fetch their bottle or bucket of drink from the saloons.
Everybody knew of these breaches of the law, but the framers of the law had taken care to make
it very difficult to procure legal evidence of those breaches. The public conscience was pricked
a little when the newspapers told it that one of the youths sent for liquor had drunk so much
of it that he fell into a stupor, took refuge in an old building, and that there the rats had
eaten him alive. Whether it was before or after this horror that Chief Commissioner Roosevelt
decided to take the law into his own hands, I do not know, but what he did was swift. The Police
engaged one of the minors, who had been in the habit of going to the saloons, to go for another
supply, and then to testify. This summary proceeding scared the rum-dealers and, no doubt,
they guarded against being caught again. But the victims of moral dry rot held up their hands
in rebuke and one of the city judges wept metaphorical tears of chagrin that the Police should
engage in the awful crime of enticing a youth to commit crime. The record does not show that
this judge, or any other, had ever done anything to check the practice of selling liquor to
minors, a practice which inevitably led thousands of the youth of New York City to become drunkards.

How do you judge Roosevelt's act? Do you admit that a little wrong may ever be done in order
to secure a great right? Roosevelt held, in such cases, that the wrong is only technical, or
a blind set up by the wicked to shield themselves. The danger of allowing each person to play
with the law, as with a toy, is evident. That way lies Jesuitry; but each infringement must
be judged on its own merits, and as Roosevelt followed more and more these short cuts to justice
he needed to be more closely scrutinized. Was his real object to attain justice or his own desires?

The Roosevelts moved back to Washington in March, 1897, and Theodore at once went to work in
the office of the Assistant Secretary of the Navy in that amazing building which John Hay called
"Mullett's masterpiece," where the Navy, War, and State Departments found shelter under one
roof. The Secretary of the Navy was John D. Long, of Massachusetts, who had been a Congressman
and Governor, was a man of cultivation and geniality, and a lawyer of high reputation. Although
sixty years old, he was believed never to have made an enemy either in politics or at the Bar.
Those who knew the two gentlemen wondered whether the somewhat leisurely and conservative Secretary
could leash in his restless young First Assistant, with his Titanic energy and his head full
of projects. No one believed that even Roosevelt could startle Governor Long out of his habitual
urbanity, but every one could foresee that they might so clash in policy that either the head
or the assistant would have to retire.

Nothing is waste that touches the man of genius. So the two years which Roosevelt spent in
writing, fifteen years before, the "History of-the Naval War of 1812," now served him to good
purpose; for it gave him much information about the past of the United States Navy and it quickened
his interest in the problems of the Navy as it should be at that time. The close of the Civil
War in 1865 left the United States with a formidable fleet, which during the next quarter of
a century deteriorated until it comprised only a collection of rotting and unserviceable ships.
Then came a reaction, followed by the construction of an up-to-date fleet, and by the recognition
by Congress that the United States must pursue a modern policy in naval affairs. Roosevelt
had always felt the danger to the United States of maintaining a despicable or an inadequate
Navy, and from the moment he entered the Department he set about pushing the construction of
the unfinished vessels and of improving the quality of the personnel.

He was impelled to do this, not merely by his instinct to bring whatever he undertook up to
the highest standard, but also because he had a premonition that a crisis was at hand which
might call the country at an instant's notice to protect itself with all the power it had.
Two recent events aroused his vigilance. In December, 1895, President Cleveland sent to England
a message upholding the Monroe Doctrine and warning the British that they must arbitrate their
dispute with Venezuela over a boundary, or fight. This sledgehammer blow at England's pride
might well have caused war had not sober patriots on both sides of the Atlantic, aghast at
this shocking possibility, smoothed the way to an understanding, and had not the British Government
itself acknowledged the rightness of the demand for arbitration. So the danger vanished, but
Roosevelt, and every other thoughtful American, said to himself, "Suppose England had taken
up the challenge, what had we to defend ourselves with?" And we compared the long roll of the
great British Fleet with the paltry list of our own ships, and realized that we should have
been helpless.

The other fact which impressed Roosevelt was the insurrection in Cuba which kept that island
in perpetual disorder. The cruel means, especially reconcentration and starvation, by which
the Spaniards tried to put down the Cubans stirred the sympathy of the Americans, and the number
of those who believed that the United States ought to interfere in behalf of humanity grew
from month to month. A spark might kindle an explosion. Obviously, therefore, the United States
must have a Navy equipped and ready for any emergency in the Caribbean.

During his first year in office, Assistant Secretary Roosevelt busied himself with all the
details of preparation; he encouraged the enthusiasm of the officers of the New Navy, for he
shared their hopes; he added, wherever he could, to its efficiency, as when by securing from
Congress an appropriation of nearly a million dollars--which seemed then enormous--for target
practice. He promoted a spirit of alertness--and all the while he watched the horizon towards
Cuba where the signs grew angrier and angrier.

But the young Secretary had to act with circumspection. In the first place the policy of the
Department was formulated by Secretary Long. In the next place the Navy could not come into
action until President McKinley and the Department of State gave the word. The President, desiring
to keep the peace up to the very end, would not countenance any move which might seem to the
Spaniards either a threat or an insult. As the open speeding-up of naval preparations would
be construed as both, nothing must be done to excite alarm. In the autumn of 1897, however,
some of the Spaniards at Havana treated the American residents there with so much surliness
that the American Government took the precaution to send a battleship to the Havana Harbor
as a warning to the menacing Spaniards, and as a protection, in case of outbreak, to American
citizens and their property.

But what was meant for a precaution proved to be the immediate cause of war. Early in the evening
of February 15??, 1898, the battleship Maine, peaceably riding at her moorings in the harbor,
was blown up. Two officers and 266 enlisted men were killed by the explosion and in the sinking
of the ship. Nearly as many more, with Captain Charles D. Sigsbee, the commander, were rescued.
The next morning the newspapers carried the report to all parts of the United States, and,
indeed, to the whole world. A tidal wave of anger surged over this country. "That means war!"
was the common utterance. Some of us, who abhorred the thought of war, urged that at least
we wait until the guilt could be fixed. The reports of the catastrophe conflicted. Was the
ship destroyed by the explosion of shells in its own magazine, or was it blown up from outside?
If the latter, who set off the mine? The Spaniards? It seemed unlikely, if they wished war,
that they should resort to so clumsy a provocation! Might not the insurgents themselves have
done it, in order to force the United States to interfere? While the country waited, the anger
grew. At Washington, nobody denied that war was coming. All that our diplomacy attempted to
do was to stave off the actual declaration long enough to give time for our naval and military
preparation.

I doubt whether Roosevelt ever worked with greater relish than during the weeks succeeding
the blowing-up of the Maine. At last he had his opportunity, which he improved night and day.
The Navy Department arranged in hot haste to victual the ships; to provide them with stores
of coal and ammunition; to bring the crews up to their full quota by enlisting; to lay out
a plan of campaign; to see to the naval bases and the lines of communication; and to cooperate
with the War Department in making ready the land fortifications along the shore. Of course
all these labors did not fall on Roosevelt's shoulders alone, but being a tireless and willing
worker he had more than one man's share in the preparations.

But the great fact that war was coming--war, the test-- delighted him, and his sense of humor
was not allowed to sleep. For the peace-at-any-price folk, the denouncers of the Navy and the
Army, the preachers of the doctrine that as all men are good it was wicked to build defenses
as if we suspected the goodness of our neighbors, now rushed to the Government for protection.
A certain lady of importance, who had a seaside villa, begged that a battleship should be anchored
just outside of it. Seaboard cities frantically demanded that adequate protection should be
sent to them. The spokesman for one of these cities happened to be a politician of such importance
that President McKinley told the Assistant Secretary that his request must be granted. Accordingly,
Roosevelt put one of the old monitors in commission, and had a tug tow it, at the imminent
risk of its crew, to the harbor which it was to guard, and there the water-logged old craft
stayed, to the relief of the inhabitants of the city and the self-satisfaction of the Congressman
who was able to give them so shining a proof of his power with the Administration. Many frightened
Bostonians transferred their securities to the bank vaults of Worcester, and they, too, clamored
for naval watch and ward. Roosevelt must have been made unusually merry by such tidings from
Boston, the city which he regarded as particularly prolific in "the men who formed the lunatic
fringe in all reform movements."

It did not astonish him that the financiers and the business men, who were amassing great fortunes
in peace, should frown on war, which interrupted their fortune-making; but he laughed when
he remembered what they and many other vague pacifists had been solemnly proclaiming. There
was the Senator, for instance, who had denied that we needed a Navy, because, if the emergency
came, he said, we could improvise one, and "build a battleship in every creek." There were
also the spread eagle Americans, the swaggerers and braggarts, who amused themselves in tail-twisting
and insulting other nations so long as they could do this with impunity; but now they were
brought to book, and their fears magnified the possible danger they might run from the invasion
of irate Spaniards. Their imagination pictured to them the poor old Spanish warship Viscaya,
as having as great possibility for destruction as the entire British Fleet itself.

At all these things Roosevelt laughed to himself, because they confirmed the gospel of military
and naval preparedness, which he had been preaching for years, the gospel which these very
opponents reviled him for; but instead of contenting himself by saying to them, "I told you
so," he pushed on preparations for war at full speed, determined to make the utmost of the
existing resources. The Navy had clearly two tasks before it. It must blockade Cuba, which
entailed the patrol of the Caribbean Sea and the protection of the Atlantic ports, and it must
prevent the Spanish Fleet, known to be at the

Philippines, from crossing the Pacific Ocean, harassing our commerce, and threatening our harbors
on our Western coast. The order he sent Commodore Dewey led directly to the chief naval event
of the war, the destruction of the Spanish Fleet by our Asiatic Squadron in Manila Bay, on
May 1st. Long before this victory came to pass, however, Roosevelt had resigned from the Navy
Department and was seeking an ampler outlet for his energy.

Having accomplished his duty as Assistant Secretary--a post which he felt was primarily for
a civilian--he thought that he had a right to retire from it, and to gratify his long-cherished
desire to take part in the actual warfare. He did not wish, he said, to have to give some excuse
to his children for not having fought in the war. As he had insisted that we ought to free
Cuba from Spanish tyranny and cruelty, he could not consistently refuse to join actively in
the liberation. A man who teaches the duty of fighting should pay with his body when the fighting
comes.

General Alger, the Secretary of War, had a great liking for Roosevelt, offered him a commission
in the Army, and even the command of a regiment. This he prudently declined, having no technical
military knowledge. He proposed instead, that Dr. Leonard Wood should be made Colonel, and
that he should serve under Wood as Lieutenant-Colonel. By profession, Wood was a physician,
who had graduated at the Harvard Medical School, and then had been a contract surgeon with
the American Army on the plains. In this service he went through the roughest kind of campaigning
and, being ambitious, and having an instinct for military science, he studied the manuals and
learned from them and through actual practice the principles of war. In this way he became
competent to lead troops. He was about two years younger than Roosevelt, with an iron frame,
great tenacity and endurance, a man of few words, but of clear sight and quick decision.

While Roosevelt finished his business at the Navy Department, Colonel Wood hurried to San Antonio,
Texas, the rendezvous of the First Regiment of Volunteer Cavalry. A call for volunteers, issued
by Roosevelt and endorsed by Secretary Alger, spread through the West and Southwest, and it
met with a quick response. Not even in Garibaldi's famous Thousand was such a strange crowd
gathered. It comprised cow-punchers, ranchmen, hunters, professional gamblers and rascals of
the Border, sports men, mingled with the society sports, former football players and oarsmen,
polo-players and lovers of adventure from the great Eastern cities. They all had one quality
in common--courage--and they were all bound together by one common bond, devotion to Theodore
Roosevelt. Nearly every one of them knew him personally; some of the Western men had hunted
or ranched with him; some of the Eastern had been with him in college, or had had contact with
him in one of the many vicissitudes of his career. It was a remarkable spectacle, this flocking
to a man not yet forty years old, whose chief work up to that time had been in the supposed
commonplace position of a Civil Service Commissioner and of a New York Police Commissioner!
But Roosevelt's name was already known throughout the country: it excited great admiration
in many, grave doubts in many, and curiosity in all. His friends urged him not to go. It seemed
to some of us almost wantonly reckless that he should put his life, which had been so valuable
and evidently held the promise of still higher achievement, at the risk of a Spanish bullet,
or of yellow fever in Cuba, for the sake of a cause which did not concern the safety of his
country. But he never considered risks or chances. He felt it as a duty that we must free Cuba,
and that every one who recognized this duty should do his share in performing it. No doubt
the excitement and the noble side of our war attracted him. No doubt, also, that he remembered
that the reputation of a successful soldier had often proved a ladder to political promotion
in our Republic. Every reader of our history, though he were the dullest, understood that.
But that was not the chief reason, or even an important one, in shaping his decision. He went
to San Antonio in May, and worked without respite in learning the rudiments of war and in teaching
them to his motley volunteers, who were already called by the public, and will be known in
history, as the "Rough Riders." He felt relieved when "Teddy's Terrors," one of the nicknames
proposed, did not stick to them. At the end of the month the regiment proceeded to Tampa, Florida,
whence part of it sailed for Cuba on the transport Yucatan. It sufficiently indicates the state
of chaos which then reigned in our Army preparations, that half the regiment and all the horses
and mules were left behind. Arrived in Cuba,, the first troops, accustomed only to the saddle,
had to hobble along as best they could, on foot, so that some wag rechristened them " Wood's
Weary Walkers." The rest of the regiment, with the mounts, came a little later, and at Las
Guasimas they had their first skirmish with the Spaniards. Eight of them were killed, and they
were buried in one grave. Afterward, in writing the history of the Rough Riders, Roosevelt
said: "There could be no more honorable burial than that of these men in a common grave--Indian
and cowboy, miner, packer, and college athlete--the man of unknown ancestry from the lonely
Western plains, and the man who carried on his watch the crests of the Stuyvesants and the
Fishes, one in the way they had met death, just as during life they had been one in their daring
and their loyalty." *

* The Rough Riders, 120.

I shall not attempt to follow in detail the story of the Rough Riders, but shall touch only
on those matters which refer to Roosevelt himself. Wood, having been promoted to Brigadier-General,
in command of a larger unit, Theodore became Colonel of the regiment. On July 1 and 2 he commanded
the Rough Riders in their attack on and capture of San Juan Hill, in connection with some colored
troops. In this engagement, their nearest approach to a battle, the Rough Riders, who had less
than five hundred men in action, lost eighty-nine in killed and wounded. Then followed a dreary
life in the trenches until Santiago surrendered; and then a still more terrible experience
while they waited for Spain to give up the war. Under a killing tropical sun, receiving irregular
and often damaged food, without tent or other protection from the heat or from the rain, the
Rough Riders endured for weeks the ravages of fever, climate, and privation. To realize that
their sufferings were directly owing to the blunders and incompetence of the War Department
at home, brought no consolation, for the soldiers could see no reason why the Department should
not go on blundering indefinitely. One of the Rough Riders told me that, when stricken with
fever, he lay for days on the beach, and that anchored within the distance a tennis-ball could
be thrown was a steamer loaded with medicines, but that no orders were given to bring them ashore!

The Rough Riders were hard hit by disease, but not harder than the other regiments in the Army.
Every one of their officers, except the Colonel and another, had yellow fever, and at one time
more than half of the regiment was sick. A terrible depression weighed them down. They almost
despaired, not only of being relieved, but of living. To face the entire Spanish Army would
have been a great joy, compared with this sinking, melting away, against the invisible fever.

The Administration at Washington, however, although it knew the condition of the Army in Cuba,
seemed indifferent rather than anxious, and talked about moving the troops into the interior,
to the high ground round San Luis. Thereupon, Roosevelt wrote to General Shafter, his commanding
officer:

To keep us here, in the opinion of every officer commanding a division or a brigade, will simply
involve the destruction of thousands. There is no possible reason for not shipping practically
the entire command North at once ....

All of us are certain, as soon as the authorities at Washington fully appreciate the conditions
of the army, to be sent home. If we are kept here it will in all human probability mean an
appalling disaster, for the surgeons here estimate that over half the army, if kept here during
the sickly season, will die.

This is not only terrible from the standpoint of the individual lives lost, but it means ruin
from the standpoint of military efficiency of the flower of the American Army, for the great
bulk of the regulars are here with you. The sick-list, large though it is, exceeding four thousand,
affords but a faint index of the debilitation of the army. Not ten per cent are fit for active
work.

This letter General Shafter really desired to have written, but when Roosevelt handed it to
him, he hesitated to receive it. Still Roosevelt persisted, left it in the General's hands,
and the General gave it to the correspondent of the Associated Press who was present. A few
hours later it had been telegraphed to the United States. Shafter called a council of war of
the division and brigade commanders, which he invited Roosevelt to attend, although his rank
as Colonel did not entitle him to take part. When the Generals heard that the Army was to be
kept in Cuba all summer and sent up into the hills, they agreed that Roosevelt's protest must
be supported, and they drew up the famous "Round Robin" in which they repeated Roosevelt's
warnings.

This letter also was immediately published at home, and outcries of horror and indignation
went up. A few sticklers for military etiquette professed to be astonished that any officer
should be guilty of the insubordination which these letters implied, and, of course, the blame
fell on Roosevelt. The truth is that Shafter, dismayed at the condition of the Fifth Army,
and at his own inability to make the Government understand the frightful doom which was impending,
deliberately chose Roosevelt to commit the insubordination; for, as he was a volunteer officer,
soon to be discharged, the act could not harm his future, whereas the regular officers were
not likely to be popular with the War Department after they had called the attention of the
world to its maleficent incompetence.

Washington heard the shot fired by the Colonel of the Rough Riders, and without loss of time
ordered the Army home. The sick were transported by thousands to Montauk Point, at the eastern
end of Long Island, where, in spite of the best medical care which could be improvised, large
numbers of them died. But the Army knew, and the American public knew, that Roosevelt, by his
" insubordination," had saved multitudes of lives. At Montauk Point he was the most popular
man in America.

This concluded Roosevelt's career as a soldier. The experience introduced to the public those
virile qualities of his with which his friends were familiar. He had not endured the hardships
of ranching and hunting in vain. If life on the Plains democratized him, life with the Rough
Riders did also; indeed, without the former there would have been no Rough Riders and no Colonel
Roosevelt. He learned not only how to lead a regiment according to the tactics of that day,
but also--and this was far more important--he learned how disasters and the waste of lives,
and treasure, and the ignominy of a disgracefully managed campaign, sprang directly from unpreparedness.
This burned indelibly into his memory. It stimulated all his subsequent appeals to make the
Army and Navy large enough for any probable sudden demand upon them. "America the Unready"
had won the war against a decrepit, impoverished, third-rate power, but had paid for her victory
hundreds of millions of dollars and tens of thousands of lives; what would the count have mounted
to had she been pitted against a really formidable foe? Would she have won at all against any
enemy fully prepared and of nearly equal strength? Many of us dismissed Roosevelt's warnings
then as the outpourings of a jingo, of one who loved war for war's sake, and wished to graft
onto the peaceful traditions and standards of our Republic the militarism of Europe. We misjudged
him.

CHAPTER VIII. GOVERNOR OF NEW YORK--VICE-PRESIDENT

While Roosevelt was at Montauk Point waiting with his regiment to be mustered out, and cheering
up the sick soldiers, he had direct proof that every war breeds a President. For the politicians
went down to call on him and, although they did not propose that he should be a candidate for
the Presidency--that was not a Presidential year--they looked him over to see how he would
do for Governor of New York. Since Cleveland set the fashion in 1882, the New York governorship
was regarded as the easiest stepping stone to the Presidency. Roosevelt's popularity was so
great that if the matter had been left in the hands of the people, he would have been nominated
with a rush; but the Empire State was dominated by Bosses--Senator David B. Hill, the Democratic
State Boss, Senator Thomas C. Platt, the Republican State Boss, and Richard Croker, Boss of
Tammany,--who had intimate relations with the wicked of both parties, and often decided an
election by throwing their votes or withholding them.

Senator Platt enjoyed, with Senator Quay of Pennsylvania, the evil reputation of being the
most unscrupulous Boss in the United States. I do not undertake to say whether the palm should
go to him or to Quay, but no one disputes that Platt held New York State in his hand, or that
Quay held Pennsylvania in his. By the year 1898, both were recognized as representing a type
of Boss that was becoming extinct.

The business-man type, of which Senator Aldrich was a perfect exponent, was pushing to the
front. Quay, greedy of money, had never made a pretense of showing even a conventional respect
for the Eighth Commandment; Platt, on the other hand, seems not to have enriched himself by
his political deals, but to have taken his pay in the gratification he enjoyed from wielding
autocratic power. Platt also betrayed that he dated from the last generation by his religiosity.
He used his piety as an elephant uses his proboscis, to reach about and secure desired objects,
large or small, the trunk of a tree or a bag of peanuts. He was a Sunday-School teacher and,
I believe, a deacon of his church. Roosevelt says that he occasionally interlarded his political
talk with theological discussion, but that his very dry theology was wholly divorced from moral
implications. The wonderful chapter on "The New York Governorship," in Roosevelt's "Autobiography,"
ought to be read by every American, because it gives the most remarkable account of the actual
working of the political Machine in a great American State, the disguises that Machine wore,
its absolute unscrupulousness, its wickedness, its purpose to destroy the ideals of democracy.
And Roosevelt's analysis of Platt may stand alongside of Machiavelli's portraits of the Italian
Bosses four hundred years before--they were not called Bosses then.

Senator Platt did not wish to have Roosevelt hold the governorship, or any other office in
which the independent young man might worry the wily old Senator.* But the Republican Party
in New York State happened to be in such a very bad condition that the likelihood that it would
carry the election that autumn was slight: for the public had temporarily tired of Machine
rule. Platt's managers saw that they must pick out a really strong candidate and they understood
that nobody at that moment could rival Roosevelt's popularity. So they impressed on Platt that
he must accept the Rough Rider Chief, and Mr. Lemuel Quigg, an ex-Congressman, a journalist
formerly on the New York Tribune, a stanch Republican, who nevertheless recognized that discretion
and intelligence might sometimes be allowed a voice in Machine dictation, journeyed to Montauk
and had a friendly, frank conversation with the Colonel.

* Platt and Quay were both born in 1833.

Quigg spoke for nobody but himself; he merely wished to sound Roosevelt. Roosevelt made no
pledges; he defined his general attitude and wished to understand what the Platt Machine proposed.
Quigg said that Platt admitted that the present Governor, Black, could not be reelected, but
that he had doubts as to Roosevelt's docility. Republican leaders and local chairmen in all
parts of the State, however, enthusiastically called for Roosevelt, and Quigg did not wish
to have the Republican Party split into two factions. He believed that Platt would accede if
he could be convinced that Roosevelt would not "make war on him."

Having assured Roosevelt that his statements were exactly what Quigg expected, Quigg returned
to New York City, reported his conversation to Platt, and, in due season, the free citizens
of New York learned that, with Platt's consent, the Colonel of the Rough Riders would be nominated
by the Republican State Convention for the governorship of New York.

During the campaign, Roosevelt stumped the State at a pace unknown till then. It was his first
real campaign, and he went from place to place in a special train speaking at every stop from
his car platform or, in the larger towns, staying long enough to address great audiences out
of doors or in the local theatre. In November, he was elected by a majority of 18,000, a slender
margin as it looks now, but sufficient for its purpose, and representing a really notable victory,
because it had been expected that the Democrats would beat any other Republican candidate but
him by overwhelming odds. So, after an absence of fifteen years, he returned to dwell in Albany.

Before he was sworn in as Governor, he had already measured strength with Senator Platt. The
Senator asked him with amiable condescension whether he had any special friends he would like
to have appointed on the committees. Roosevelt expressed surprise, supposing that the Speaker
appointed committees. Then Platt told him that the Speaker had not been agreed upon yet, but
that of course he would name the list given to him. Roosevelt understood the situation, but
said nothing. A week later, however, at another conference, Platt handed him a telegram, in
which the sender accepted with pleasure his appointment as Superintendent of Public Works.
Roosevelt liked this man and thought him honest, but he did not think him the best person for
that particular work, and he did not intend as Governor to have his appointments dictated to
him, because he would naturally be held responsible for his appointees. When he told Platt
that that man would not do, the Senator flew into a passion; he had never met such insubordination
before in any public official, and he decided to fight the issue from the start. Roosevelt
did not allow himself to lose his temper; he was perfectly polite while Platt let loose his
fury; and before they parted Platt understood which was master. The Governor appointed Colonel
Partridge to the position and, as it had chiefly to do with the canals of the State, it was
most important. In deed, the canal scandals under Roosevelt's predecessor, Governor Black,
had so roused the popular conscience that it threatened to break down the supremacy of the
Republican Party.

Jacob Riis describes Roosevelt's administration as introducing the Ten Commandments into the
government at Albany, and we need hardly be told that the young Governor applied his usual
methods and promoted his favorite reforms. Finding the Civil Service encrusted with abuses,
he pushed legislation which established a high standard of reform. The starch which had been
taken out of the Civil Service Law under Governor Black was put back, stiffened. He insisted
on enforcing the Factory Law, for the protection of operatives; and the law regulating sweat-shops,
which he inspected himself, with Riis for his companion.

Perhaps his hottest battle was over the law to tax corporations which held public franchises.
This touched the owners of street railways in the cities and towns, and many other corporations
which enjoyed a monopoly in managing quasi-public utilities. "In politics there is no politics,"
said that elderly early mentor of Roosevelt when he first sat in the Assembly. Legislatures
existed simply to do the bidding of Big Business, was the creed of the men who controlled Big
Business. They contributed impartially to the Republican and Democratic campaign funds. They
had Republican Assemblymen and Democratic Assemblymen in their service, and their lobbyists
worked harmoniously with either party. Merely to suggest that the special privileges of the
corporations might be open to discussion was sacrilege. No wonder, therefore, that the holders
of public franchises marshaled all their forces against the Governor.

Boss Platt wrote Roosevelt a letter--one of the sort inspired more by sorrow than by anger--to
the effect that he had been warned that the Governor was a little loose on the relations of
capital and labor, on trusts and combinations, and, in general, on the right of a man to run
his business as he chose, always respecting, of course, the Ten Commandments and the Penal
Code. The Senator was shocked and pained to perceive that this warning had a real basis, and
that the Governor's "altruism" in behalf of the people had led him to urge curtailing the rights
of corporations. Roosevelt, instead of feeling contrite at this chiding, redoubled his energy.
The party managers buried the bill. Roosevelt then sent a special message, as the New York
Governors are empowered to do. It was laid on the Speaker's desk, but no notice was taken of
it. I need not impress upon the Assembly the need of passing this bill at once .... It establishes
the principle that hereafter corporations holding franchises from the public shall pay their
just share of the public burden.'*

* Riis, 221.

The Speaker, the Assembly, and the Machine now gave heed. The corporations saw that it would
be suicidal to bring down on themselves the avalanche of fury which was accumulating. The bill
passed. Roosevelt had set a precedent for controlling corporate truculence.

While Roosevelt was accomplishing these very real triumphs for justice and popular welfare,
the professional critics went on finding fault with him. Although the passage of one bill after
another gave tangible proof that, far from being Platt's "man," or the slave of the Machine,
he followed his own ideals, did not satisfy these critics. They suspected that there was some
wickedness behind it, and they professed to be greatly disturbed that Roosevelt frequently
breakfasted or dined with Platt. What could this mean except that he took his instructions
from the Boss? How could he, who made a pretense of righteousness, consent to visit the Sunday
School political teacher, much less to sit at the table with him? The doubts and anxieties
of these self-appointed defenders of public morals, and of the Republic even, found a spokesman
in a young journalist who had then come recently from college. This person, whom we will call
X., met Mr. Roosevelt at a public reception and with the brusqueness, to put it mildly, of
a hereditary reformer, he demanded to know why the Governor breakfasted and dined with Boss
Platt. Mr. Roosevelt replied, with that courtesy of his which was never more complete than
when it conveyed his sarcasm, that a person in public office, like himself, was obliged to
meet officially all kinds of men and women, and he added: "Why, Mr. X., I have even dined with
your father." X. did not pursue his investigation, and the bystanders, who had vague recollections
of the father's misfortunes in Wall Street, thought that the son was a little indiscreet even
for a hereditary reformer. The truth about Roosevelt's going to Platt and breakfasting with
him was very simple. The Senator spent the week till Friday afternoon in Washington, then he
came to New York for Saturday and Sunday. Being somewhat infirm, although he was not, as we
now reckon, an old man, he did not care to extend his trip to Albany, and so the young and
vigorous Governor ran down from Albany and, at breakfast with Platt, discussed New York State
affairs. What I have already quoted indicates, I think, that no body knew better than the Boss
himself that Roosevelt was not his "man."

One other example is too good to omit. The Superintendent of Insurance was really one of Platt's
men, and a person most grateful to the insurance companies. Governor Roosevelt, regarding him
as unfit, not only declined to reappoint him, but actually appointed in his stead a superintendent
whom Platt and the insurance companies could not manage, and so hated. Platt remonstrated.
Finding his arguments futile, he broke out in threats that if his man was not reappointed,
he would fight. He would forbid the Assembly to confirm Roosevelt's candidate. Roosevelt replied
that as soon as the Assembly adjourned, he should appoint his candidate temporarily. Platt
declared that when it reconvened, the Assembly would throw him out. This did not, however,
frighten Roosevelt, who remarked that, although he foresaw he should have an uncomfortable
time himself, he would "guarantee to make his opponents more uncomfortable still."

Later that day Platt sent one of his henchmen to deliver an ultimatum to the Governor. He repeated
Platt's threats, but was unable to make an impression. Roosevelt got up to go. "You know it
means your ruin?" said the henchman solemnly. "Well, we will see about that," Roosevelt replied,
and had nearly reached the door when the henchman, anxious to give the prospective victim a
last chance, warned him that the Senator would open the fight on the next day, and keep it
up to the bitter end. "Yes," replied the Governor; "good-night." And he was just going out,
when the henchman rushed after him, calling, "Hold on! We accept. Send in your nomination.
The Senator is very sorry, but will make no further opposition."* Roosevelt adds that the bluff
was carried through to the limit, but that after it failed, Platt did not renew his attempt
to interfere with him.

* Autobiography, 317.

Nevertheless, Roosevelt made no war on Platt or anybody else, merely for the fun of it. "We
must use the tools we have," said Lincoln to John Hay; and Lincoln also had many tools which
he did not choose, but which he had to work with. Roosevelt differed from the doctrinaire reformer,
who would sit still and do nothing unless he had perfectly clean tools and pure conditions
to work with. To do nothing until the millennium came would mean, of course, that the Machine
would pursue its methods undisturbed. Roosevelt, on the contrary, knew that by cooperating
with the Machine, as far as his conscience permitted, he could reach results much better than
it aimed at.

Here are three of his letters to Platt, written at a time when the young journalist and the
reformers of his stripe shed tears at the thought that Theodore Roosevelt was the obsequious
servant of Boss Platt.

The first letter refers to Roosevelt's nomination to the Vice Presidency, a possibility which
the public was already discussing. The last two letters, written after he had been nominated
by the Republicans, relate to the person whom he wished to see succeed himself as Governor
of New York.

ROOSEVELT TO PLATT

February 1, 1900

First, and least important. If you happened to have seen the Evening Post recently, you ought
to be amused, for it is moralizing with lofty indignation over the cringing servility I have
displayed in the matter of the insurance superintendent. I fear it will soon take the view
that it cannot possibly support you as long as you associate with me!

Now as to serious matters. I have, of course, done a great deal of thinking about the Vice-Presidency
since the talk I had with you followed by the letter from Lodge and the visit from Payne, of
Wisconsin. I have been reserving the matter to talk over with you, but in view of the publication
in the Sun this morning, I would like to begin the conversation, as it were, by just a line
or two now. As you know, I am of an active nature. In spite of all the work and all the worry,
and very largely because of your own constant courtesy and consideration, my dear Senator,--I
have thoroughly enjoyed being Governor. I have kept every promise, express or implied, I made
on the stump, and I feel that the Republican Party is stronger before the State because of
my incumbency. Certainly everything is being managed now on a perfectly straight basis and
every office is as clean as a whistle. As you know, I am a man of moderate means (although
I am a little better off than the Sun's article would indicate) and I should have to live very
simply in Washington and could not entertain in any way as Mr. Hobart and Mr. Morton entertained.
My children are all growing up and I find the burden of their education constantly heavier,
so that I am by no means sure that I ought to go into public life at all, provided some remunerative
work offered itself. The only reason I would like to go on is that as I have not been a money
maker I feel rather in honor bound to leave my children the equivalent in a way of a substantial
sum of actual achievement in politics or letters. Now, as Governor, I can achieve something,
but as Vice-President I should achieve nothing. The more I look at it, the less I feel as if
the Vice-Presidency offered anything to me that would warrant my taking it.

Of course, I shall not say anything until I hear from you, and possibly not until I see you,
but I did want you to know just how I felt.

ROOSEVELT TO PLATT

Oyster Bay, August 13, 1900

I noticed in Saturday's paper that you had spoken of my suggesting Judge Andrews. I did not
intend to make the suggestion public, and I wrote you with entire freedom, hoping that perhaps
I could suggest some man who would commend himself to your judgment as being acceptable generally
to the Republican Party. I am an organization Republican of a very strong type, as I understand
the word "organization," but in trying to suggest a candidate for Governor, I am not seeking
either to put up an organization or a non-organization man, but simply a first-class Republican,
who will commend himself to all Republicans, and, for the matter of that, to all citizens who
wish good government. Judge Andrews needs no endorsement from any man living as to his Republicanism.
From the time he was Mayor of Syracuse through his long and distinguished service on the bench
he has been recognized as a Republican and a citizen of the highest type. I write this because
your interview seems to convey the impression, which I am sure you did not mean to convey,
that in some way my suggestions are antagonistic to the organization. I do not understand quite
what you mean by the suggestion of my friends, for I do not know who the men are to whom you
thus refer, nor why they are singled out for reference as making any suggestions about the
Governorship.

In your last interview, I understood that you wished me to be back in the State at the time
of the convention. As I wish to be able to give the nominee hearty and effective support, this
necessarily means that I do have a great interest in whom is nominated.

ROOSEVELT TO PLATT

Oyster Bay, August 20, 1900

I have your letter of the 16th. I wish to see a straight Republican nomination for the governorship.
The men whom I have mentioned, such as ex-Judge Andrews and Secretary Root, are as good Republicans
as can be found in the State, and I confess I haven't the slightest idea what you mean when
you say, "if we are to lower the standard and nominate such men as you suggest, we might as
well die first as last." To nominate such. a man as either of these is to raise the standard;
to speak of it as lowering the standard is an utter misuse of words.

You say that we must nominate some Republican who "will carry out the wishes of the organization,"
and add that "I have not yet made up my mind who that man is." Of one thing I am certain, that,
to have it publicly known that the candidate, whoever he may be, "will carry out the wishes
of the organization," would insure his defeat; for such a statement implies that he would merely
register the decrees of a small body of men inside the Republican Party, instead of trying
to work for the success of the party as a whole and of good citizenship generally. It is not
the business of a Governor to "carry out the wishes of the organization" unless these wishes
coincide with the good of the Party and of the State. If they do, then he ought to have them
put into effect; if they do not, then as a matter of course he ought to disregard them. To
pursue any other course would be to show servility; and a servile man is always an undesirable--not
to say a contemptible--public servant. A Governor should, of course, try in good faith to work
with the organization; but under no circumstances should he be servile to it, or "carry out
its wishes" unless his own best judgment is that they ought to be carried out. I am a good
organization man myself, as I understand the word "organization," but it is in the highest
degree foolish to make a fetish of the word "organization" and to treat any man or any small
group of men as embodying the organization. The organization should strive to give effective,
intelligent, and honest leadership to and representation of the Republican Party, just as the
Republican Party strives to give wise and upright government to the State. When what I have
said ceases to be true of either organization or party, it means that the organization or party
is not performing its duty, and is losing the reason for its existence.*

* Washburn, 34-38.

Roosevelt's independence as Governor of New York, and the very important reforms which, in
spite of the Machine, he had driven through, greatly increased his personal popularity throughout
the country. To citizens, East and West, who knew nothing about the condition of the factories,
canals, and insurance institutions in New York State, the name "Roosevelt" stood for a man
as honest as he was energetic, and as fearless as he was true. Platt and the Machine naturally
wished to get rid of this marplot, who could not be manipulated, who held strange and subversive
ideas as to the extent to which the Ten Commandments and the Penal Code should be allowed to
encroach on politics and Big Business, and who was hopelessly "altruistic" in caring for the
poor and down trodden and outcast. Even Platt knew that, while it would not be safe for him
to try to dominate the popular hero against his own preference and that of the public, still
to shelve Roosevelt in the office of Vice-President would bring peace to the sadly disturbed
Boss, and would restore jobs to many of his greedy followers. So he talked up the Vice-Presidency
for Roosevelt, and he let the impression circulate that in the autumn there would be a new
Governor.

Roosevelt, however, repeated to many persons the views he wrote to Platt in the letter quoted
above, and his friends and opponents both understood that he wished to continue as Governor
for another two years, to carry on the fight against corruption, and to save himself from being
laid away in the Vice Presidency--the receiving-tomb of many ambitious politicians. In spite
of the fact that within thirty-five years, by the assassination of two Presidents, two Vice-Presidents
had succeeded to the highest office in the Nation, Vice-Presidents were popularly regarded
as being mere phantoms without any real power or influence as long as their term lasted, and
cut off from all hopes in the future. Roosevelt himself had this notion. But the Presidential
conventions, with criminal disregard of the qualifications of a candidate to perform the duties
of President if accident thrust them upon him, went on recklessly nominating nonentities for
Vice-President.

The following extract from a confidential letter by John Hay, Secretary of State, to Mr. Henry
White, at the American Embassy in London, reveals the attitude towards Roosevelt of the Administration
itself. Allowance must be made, of course, for Hay's well-known habit of persiflage:

HAY TO HENRY WHITE

Teddy has been here: have you heard of it? It was more fun than a goat. He came down with a
sombre resolution thrown on his strenuous brow to let McKinley and Hanna know once for all
that he would not be Vice-President, and found to his stupefaction that nobody in Washington,
except Platt, had ever dreamed of such a thing. He did not even have a chance to launch his
nolo episcopari at the Major. That statesman said he did not want him on the ticket--that he
would be far more valuable in New York-- and Root said, with his frank and murderous smile,
"Of course not--you're not fit for it." And so he went back quite eased in his mind, but considerably
bruised in his amour propre.

In February, Roosevelt issued a public notice that he would not consent to run for the Vice-Presidency,
and throughout the spring, until the meeting of the Republican Convention in Philadelphia,
on June 21st, he clung to that determination. Platt, anxious lest Roosevelt should be reelected
Governor against the plans of the Machine, quietly--worked up a "boom" for Roosevelt's nomination
as Vice-President; and he connived with Quay to steer the Pennsylvania delegation in the same
direction. The delegates met and renominated McKinley as a matter of course. Then, with irresistible
pressure, they insisted on nominating Roosevelt. Swept off his feet, and convinced that the
demand came genuinely from representatives from all over the country, he accepted, and was
chosen by acclamation. The Boss-led delegations from New York and Pennsylvania added their
votes to those of the real Roosevelt enthusiasts.

Happy, pious Tom Platt, relieved from the nightmare of having to struggle for two years more
with a Reform Governor at Albany! Some of Roosevelt's critics construed his yielding, at the
last moment, as evidence of his being ruled by Platt after all. But this insinuation collapsed
as soon as the facts were known. As an episode in the annals of political sport, I should like
to have had Roosevelt run for Governor a second time, defy Platt and all his imps, and be reelected.

As I have just quoted Secretary Hay's sarcastic remarks on the possibility that Roosevelt might
be the candidate for Vice-President, I will add this extract from Hay's note to the successful
candidate himself, dated June 21st:

As it is all over but the shouting, I take a moment of this cool morning of the longest day
in the year to offer you my cordial congratulations .... You have received the greatest compliment
the country could pay you, and although it was not precisely what you and your friends desire,
I have no doubt it is all for the best. Nothing can keep you from doing good work wherever
you are--nor from getting lots of fun out of it.*

* W. R. Thayer: John Hay, II, 343.

The Presidential campaign which followed, shook the country only a little less than that of
1896 had done. For William J. Bryan was again the Democratic candidate, honest money--the gold
against the silver standard--was again the issue--although the Spanish War had injected Imperialism
into the Republican platform--and the conservative elements were still anxious. The persistence
of the Free Silver heresy and of Bryan's hold on the popular imagination alarmed them; for
it seemed to contradict the hope implied in Lincoln's saying that you can't fool all the people
all the time. Here was a demagogue, who had been exposed and beaten four years before, who
raised his head--or should I say his voice?--with increased effrontery and to an equally large
and enthusiastic audience.

Roosevelt took his full share in campaigning for the Republican ticket. He spoke in the East
and in the West, and for the first time the people of many of the States heard him speak and
saw his actual presence. His attitude as a speaker, his gestures, the way in which his pent-up
thoughts seemed almost to strangle him before he could utter them, his smile showing the white
rows of teeth, his fist clenched as if to strike an invisible adversary, the sudden dropping
of his voice, and leveling of his forefinger as he became almost conversational in tone, and
seemed to address special individuals in the crowd before him, the strokes of sarcasm, stern
and cutting, and the swift flashes of humor which set the great multitude in a roar, became
in that summer and autumn familiar to millions of his countrymen; and the cartoonists made
his features and gestures familiar to many other millions. On his Western trip, Roosevelt for
a companion and understudy had Curtis Guild, and more than once when Roosevelt lost his voice
completely, Guild had to speak for him. Up to election day in November, the Republicans did
not feel confident, but when the votes were counted, McKinley had a plurality of over 830,000,
and beat Bryan by more than a million.

By an absurd and bungling practice, which obtains in our political life, the Administration
elected in November does not take office until the following March, an interval which permits
the old Administration, often beaten and discredited, to continue in office for four months
after the people have turned it out. As we have lately seen, such an Administration does not
experience a death-bed repentance, but employs the moratorium to rivet upon the country the
evil policies which the people have repudiated. This interval Roosevelt spent in finishing
his work as Governor of New York State, and in removing to Washington. Then he had a foretaste
of the life of inactivity to which the Vice-Presidency doomed him.

After being sworn in on March 4, 1901, his only stated duty was to preside over the Senate,
but as the Senate did not usually sit during the hot weather, he had still more leisure thrust
upon him. Of course, he could write, and there never was a time, even at his busiest, when
he had not a book, or addresses, or articles on the stocks. But writing alone was not now sufficient
to exercise his very vigorous faculties. Perhaps, for the first time in his life, he may have
had a foreboding of what ennui meant. He consulted Justice White, now Chief Justice of the
Supreme Court, whether it would be proper for him to enroll himself as a student in the Washington
Law School. Justice White feared that this might be regarded as a slight to the dignity of
the Vice-Presidential office, but he told Roosevelt what law-books to read, and offered to
quiz him every Saturday evening. Before autumn came, however, when they could carry out their
plan, a tragic event altered the course of Roosevelt's career.

CHAPTER IX. PRESIDENT

During the summer of 1901, the city of Buffalo, New York, held a Pan-American Exposition. President
McKinley visited this and, while holding a public reception on September 6, he was twice shot
by Leon Czolgosz, a Polish anarchist. When the news reached him, Roosevelt went straight to
Buffalo, to attend to any matters which the President might suggest; but as the surgeons pronounced
the wounds not fatal nor even dangerous, Roosevelt left with a light heart, and joined his
family at Mount Tahawrus in the Adirondacks. For several days cheerful bulletins came. Then,
on Friday afternoon the 13th, when the Vice-President and his party were coming down from a
climb to the top of Mount Marcy, a messenger brought a telegram which read:

The President's condition has changed for the worse.

Cortelyou.

The climbers on Mount Marcy were fifty miles from the end of the railroad and ten miles from
the nearest telephone at the lower club-house. They hurried forward on foot, following the
trail to the nearest cottage; where a runner arrived with a message, "Come at once." Further
messages awaited them at the lower club-house. President McKinley was dying, and Roosevelt
must lose no time. His secretary, William Loeb, telephoned from North Creek, the end of the
railroad, that he had had a locomotive there for hours with full steam up. So Roosevelt and
the driver of his buckboard dashed on through the night, over the uncertain mountain road,
dangerous even by daylight, at breakneck speed. Dawn was breaking when they came to North Creek.
There, Loeb told him that President McKinley was dead. Then they steamed back to civilization
as fast as possible, reached the main trunk line, and sped on to Buffalo without a moment's
delay. It was afternoon when the special train came into the station, and Roosevelt, having
covered the distance of 440 miles from Mount Marcy, was driven to the house of Ansley Wilcox.
Most of the Cabinet had preceded him to Buffalo, and Secretary Root, the ranking member present
Secretary Hay having remained in Washington asked the Vice-President to be sworn in at once.
Roosevelt replied:

'I shall take the oath of office in obedience to your request, sir, and in doing so, it shall
be my aim to continue absolutely unbroken the policies of President McKinley for the peace,
prosperity, and honor of our beloved country.'

The oath having been administered, the new President said:

'In order to help me keep the promise I have taken, I would ask the Cabinet to retain their
positions at least for some months to come. I shall rely upon you, gentlemen, upon your loyalty
and fidelity, to help me.'*

* Washburn, 40.

On September 19, John Hay wrote to his intimate friend, Henry Adams:

'I have just received your letter from Stockholm and shuddered at the awful clairvoyance of
your last phrase about Teddy's luck.

Well, he is here in the saddle again. That is, he is in Canton to attend President McKinley's
funeral and will have his first Cabinet meeting in the White House tomorrow. He came down from
Buffalo Monday night--and in the station, without waiting an instant, told me I must stay with
him that I could not decline nor even consider. I saw, of course, it was best for him to start
off that way, and so I said I would stay, forever, of course, for it would be worse to say
I would stay a while than it would be to go out at once. I can still go at any moment he gets
tired of me or when I collapse.'*

* W. R. Thayer: John Hay,II, 268.

Writing to Lady Jeune at this time Hay said:

I think you know Mr. Roosevelt, our new President. He is an old and intimate friend of mine:
a young fellow of infinite dash and originality.

In this manner, "Teddy's luck" brought him into the White House, as the twenty-sixth President
of the United States. Early in the summer, his old college friend and steadfast admirer, Charles
Washburn, remarked: "I would not like to be in McKinley's shoes. He has a man of destiny behind
him." Destiny is the one artificer who can use all tools and who finds a short cut to his goal
through ways mysterious and most devious. As I have before remarked, nothing commonplace could
happen to Theodore Roosevelt. He emerged triumphant from the receiving-vault of the Vice-Presidency,
where his enemies supposed they had laid him away for good. In ancient days, his midnight dash
from Mount Marcy, and his flight by train across New York State to Buffalo, would have become
a myth symbolizing the response of a hero to an Olympian summons. If we ponder it well, was
it indeed less than this?

In 1899, Mr. James Bryce, the most penetrating of foreign observers of American life had said,
in words that now seem prophetic: "Theodore Roosevelt is the hope of American politics."

CHAPTER X. THE WORLD WHICH ROOSEVELT CONFRONTED

To understand the work of a statesman we must know something of the world in which he lived.
That is his material, out of which he tries to embody his ideals as the sculptor carves his
out of marble. We are constantly under the illusions of time. Some critics say, for instance,
that Washington fitted so perfectly the environment of the American Colonies during the last
half of the eighteenth century, that he was the direct product of that environment; I prefer
to think, however, that he possessed certain individual traits which, and not the time, made
him George Washington, and would have enabled him to have mastered a different period if he
had been born in it. In like manner, having known Theodore Roosevelt, I do not believe that
he would have been dumb or passive or colorless or slothful or futile under any other conceivable
conditions. Just as it was not New York City, nor Harvard, nor North Dakota, which made him
ROOSEVELT, so the ROOSEVELT in him would have persisted under whatever sky.

The time offers the opportunities. The gift in the man, innate and incalculable, determines
how he will seize them and what he will do with them. Now it is because I think that Roosevelt
had a clear vision of the world in which he dwelt, and saw the path by which to lead and improve
it, that his career has profound significance to me. Picturesque he was, and picturesqueness
made whatever he did interesting. But far deeper qualities made him significant. From ancient
times, at least from the days of Greece and Rome, Democracy as a political ideal had been dreamed
of, and had even been put into practice on a small scale here and there. But its shortcomings
and the frailty of human nature made it the despair of practical men and the laughing stock
of philosophers and ironists. Nevertheless, the conviction that no man has a right to enslave
another would not die. And in modern times the English sense of justice and the English belief
that a man must have a right to be heard on matters concerning himself and his government,
forced Democracy, as an actual system, to the front. The demand for representation caused the
American colonists to break away from England and to govern themselves independently. Every
one now sees that this demand was the just and logical carrying forward of English ideals.

