Up and to Mr. Povy's, and by his bedside talked a good while. Among other things he do much
insist I perceive upon the difficulty of getting of money, and would fain have me to concur
in the thinking of some other way of disposing of the place of Treasurer to one Mr. Bell, but
I did seem slight of it, and resolved to try to do the best or to give it up.  Thence to the
Duke of Albemarle, where I was sorry to find myself to come a little late, and so home, and
at noon going to the 'Change I met my Lord Brunkard, Sir Robert Murry, Deane Wilkins, and Mr.
Hooke, going by coach to Colonell Blunts to dinner.  These experiments were the intent of their
coming, and pretty they are.  So to my Lady Batten, where my wife is tonight, and so after
some merry talk home and to bed.

2nd.  Up and to the office all day, where sat late, and then to the office again, and by and
by Sir W. Batten and my Lady and my wife and I by appointment yesterday (my Lady Pen failed
us, who ought to have been with us) to the Rhenish winehouse at the Steelyard, and there eat
a couple of lobsters and some prawns, and pretty merry, especially to see us four together,
while my wife and my Lady did never intend ever to be together again after a year's distance
between one another.  Hither by and by come Sir Richard Ford and also Mrs. Esther, that lived
formerly with my Lady Batten, now well married to a priest, come to see my Lady. Thence toward
evening home, and to my office, where late, and then home to supper and to bed.

3rd.  Up betimes and walked to Sir Ph. Warwicke's, where a long time with him in his chamber
alone talking of Sir G. Carteret's business, and the abuses he puts on the nation by his bad
payments to both our vexations, but no hope of remedy for ought I see.  Thence to my Lord Ashly
to a Committee of Tangier for my Lord Rutherford's accounts, and that done we to my Lord Treasurer's,
where I did receive my Lord's warrant to Sir R. Long for drawing a warrant for my striking
of tallys.  So to the Inne again by Cripplegate, expecting my mother's coming to towne, but
she is not come this weeke neither, the coach being too full.  So to the 'Change and thence
home to dinner, and so out to Gresham College, and saw a cat killed with the Duke of Florence's
poyson, and saw it proved that the oyle of tobacco

     ["Mr. Daniel Coxe read an account of the effects of tobacco-oil
     distilled in a retort, by one drop of which given at the mouth he
     had killed a lusty cat, which being opened, smelled strongly of the
     oil, and the blood of the heart more strongly than the rest ....
     One drop of the Florentine 'oglio di tobacco' being again given to a
     dog, it proved stupefying and vomitive, as before" (Birch's "History
     of the Royal Society," vol, ii., pp. 42, 43).]

drawn by one of the Society do the same effect, and is judged to be the same thing with the
poyson both in colour and smell, and effect.  I saw also an abortive child preserved fresh
in spirits of salt.  Thence parted, and to White Hall to the Councilchamber about an order
touching the Navy (our being empowered to commit seamen or Masters that do not, being hired
or pressed, follow their worke), but they could give us none. So a little vexed at that, because
I put in the memorial to the Duke of Albemarle alone under my own hand, home, and after some
time at the office home to bed.

4th.  Up, and to the office, where we sat busy all the morning.  At noon home to dinner, and
then to the office again all day till almost midnight, and then, weary, home to supper and to bed.

5th.  Up betimes, and by water to Westminster, there to speak the first time with Sir Robert
Long, to give him my Privy Seal and my Lord Treasurer's order for Tangier Tallys; he received
me kindly enough. Thence home by water, and presently down to Woolwich and back to Blackewall,
and there, viewed the Breach, in order to a Mast Docke, and so to Deptford to the Globe, where
my Lord Brunkard, Sir J. Minnes, Sir W. Batten, and Commissioner Pett were at dinner, having
been at the Breach also, but they find it will be too great charge to make use of it.  Thence
home, and I by and by to Mr. Povy's to see him, who is yet in his chamber not well, and thence
by his advice to one Lovett's, a varnisher, to see his manner of new varnish, but found not
him at home, but his wife, a very beautiful woman, who shewed me much variety of admirable
work, and is in order to my having of some papers fitted with his lines for my use for tables
and the like.  I know not whether I was more pleased with the thing, or that I was shewed it
by her, but resolved I am to have some made.  So home to my office late, and then to supper
and to bed.  My wife tells me that she hears that my poor aunt James hath had her breast cut
off here in town, her breast having long been out of order. This day, after I had suffered
my owne hayre to grow long, in order to wearing it, I find the convenience of periwiggs is
so great, that I have cut off all short again, and will keep to periwiggs.

6th.  Up, and all day at the office, but a little at dinner, and there late till past 12. 
So home to bed, pleased as I always am after I have rid a great deal of work, it being very
satisfactory to me.

7th (Lord's day).  Up, and to church with my wife.  Home and dined. After dinner come Mr. Andrews
and spent the afternoon with me, about our Tangier business of the victuals, and then parted,
and after sermon comes Mr. Hill and a gentleman, a friend of his, one Mr. Scott, that sings
well also, and then comes Mr. Andrews, and we all sung and supped, and then to sing again and
passed the Sunday very pleasantly and soberly, and so I to my office a little, and then home
to prayers and to bed.  Yesterday begun my wife to learn to, limn of one Browne,

     [Alexander Browne, a printseller, who taught drawing, and practised
     it with success.  He published in 1669, "Ars Pictoria, or an Academy
     treating of Drawing, Painting, Limning and Etching."]

which Mr. Hill helps her to, and, by her beginning upon some eyes, I think she will [do] very
fine things, and I shall take great delight in it.

8th.  Up very betimes, and did much business before I went out with several persons, among
others Captain Taylor, who would leave the management of most of his business now he is going
to Harwich, upon me, and if I can get money by it, which I believe it will, I shall take some
of it upon me.  Thence with Sir W. Batten to the Duke of Albemarle's and there did much business,
and then to the 'Change, and thence off with Sir W. Warren to an ordinary, where we dined and
sat talking of most usefull discourse till 5 in the afternoon, and then home, and very busy
till late, and so home and to bed.

9th.  Up betimes, and to my business at the office, where all the morning. At noon comes Mrs.
The. Turner, and dines with us, and my wife's painting-master staid and dined; and I take great
pleasure in thinking that my wife will really come to something in that business. Here dined
also Luellin.  So after dinner to my office, and there very busy till almost midnight, and
so home to supper and to bed.  This day we have newes of eight ships being taken by some of
ours going into the Texel, their two men of warr, that convoyed them, running in.  They come
from about Ireland, round to the north.

10th.  So to the 'Change and did much business, and then home to dinner, and there find my
poor mother come out of the country today in good health, and I am glad to see her, but my
business, which I am sorry for, keeps me from paying the respect I ought to her at her first
coming, she being grown very weak in her judgement, and doating again in her discourse, through
age and some trouble in her family.  I left her and my wife to go abroad to buy something,
and then I to my office.  In the evening by appointment to Sir W. Warren and Mr. Deering at
a taverne hard by with intent to do some good upon their agreement in a great bargain of planks.
So home to my office again, and then to supper and to bed, my mother being in bed already.

11th.  Up betimes, and at the office all the morning.  At home dined, and then to the office
all day till late at night, and then home to supper, weary with business, and to bed.

12th.  Up betimes, and find myself disappointed in my receiving presently of my L50 I hoped
for sure of Mr. Warren upon the benefit of my press warrant, but he promises to make it good.
So by water to the Exchequer, and there up and down through all the offices to strike my tallys
for L17,500, which methinks is so great a testimony of the goodness of God to me, that I, from
a mean clerke there, should come to strike tallys myself for that sum, and in the authority
that I do now, is a very stupendous mercy to me.  I shall have them struck to-morrow.  But
to see how every little fellow looks after his fees, and to get what he can for everything,
is a strange consideration; the King's fees that he must pay himself for this L17,500 coming
to above L100.  Thence called my wife at Unthanke's to the New Exchange and elsewhere to buy
a lace band for me, but we did not buy, but I find it so necessary to have some handsome clothes
that I cannot but lay out some money thereupon.  To the 'Change and thence to my watchmaker,
where he has put it [i.e. the watch] in order, and a good and brave piece it is, and he tells
me worth L14 which is a greater present than I valued it.  So home to dinner, and after dinner
comes several people, among others my cozen, Thomas Pepys, of Hatcham,

     [Thomas Pepys, of Hatcham Barnes, Surrey, Master of the Jewel House
     to Charles II. and James II.]

to receive some money, of my Lord Sandwich's, and there I paid him what was due to him upon
my uncle's score, but, contrary to my expectation, did get him to sign and seale to my sale
of lands for payment of debts. So that now I reckon myself in better condition by L100 in my
content than I was before, when I was liable to be called to an account and others after me
by my uncle Thomas or his children for every foot of land we had sold before.  This I reckon
a great good fortune in the getting of this done. He gone, come Mr. Povy, Dr. Twisden, and
Mr. Lawson about settling my security in the paying of the L4000 ordered to Sir J. Lawson.
So a little abroad and then home, and late at my office and closet settling this day's disordering
of my papers, then to supper and to bed.

13th.  Up, and all day in some little gruntings of pain, as I used to have from winde, arising
I think from my fasting so long, and want of exercise, and I think going so hot in clothes,
the weather being hot, and the same clothes I wore all winter.  To the 'Change after office,
and received my watch from the watchmaker, and a very fine [one] it is, given me by Briggs,
the Scrivener.  Home to dinner, and then I abroad to the Atturney Generall, about advice upon
the Act for Land Carriage, which he desired not to give me before I had received the King's
and Council's order therein; going home bespoke the King's works, will cost me 50s., I believe.
So home and late at my office.  But, Lord!  to see how much of my old folly and childishnesse
hangs upon me still that I cannot forbear carrying my watch in my hand in the coach all this
afternoon, and seeing what o'clock it is one hundred times; and am apt to think with myself,
how could I be so long without one; though I remember since, I had one, and found it a trouble,
and resolved to carry one no more about me while I lived.  So home to supper and to bed, being
troubled at a letter from Mr. Gholmly from Tangier, wherein he do advise me how people are
at worke to overthrow our Victualling business, by which I shall lose L300 per annum, I am
much obliged to him for this, secret kindnesse, and concerned to repay it him in his own concernments
and look after this.

14th (Lord's day).  Up, and with my wife to church, it being Whitsunday; my wife very fine
in a new yellow bird's-eye hood, as the fashion is now. We had a most sorry sermon; so home
to dinner, my mother having her new suit brought home, which makes her very fine.  A fine seat,
but an old-fashioned house; and being not full of people looks desolately.  Thence to Walthamstow,
where (failing at the old place) Sir W. Batten by and by come home, I walking up and down the
house and garden with my Lady very pleasantly, then to supper very merry, and then back by
coach by dark night.  I all the afternoon in the coach reading the treasonous book of the Court
of King James, printed a great while ago, and worth reading, though ill intended. As soon as
I come home, upon a letter from the Duke of Albemarle, I took boat at about 12 at night, and
down the River in a gally, my boy and I, down to the Hope and so up again, sleeping and waking,
with great pleasure, my business to call upon every one of

15th.  Our victualling ships to set them agoing, and so home, and after dinner to the King's
playhouse, all alone, and saw "Love's Maistresse." Some pretty things and good variety in it,
but no or little fancy in it. Thence to the Duke of Albemarle to give him account of my day's
works, where he shewed me letters from Sir G. Downing, of four days' date, that the Dutch are
come out and joyned, well-manned, and resolved to board our best ships, and fight for certain
they will.  Thence to the Swan at Herbert's, and there the company of Sarah a little while,
and so away and called at the Harp and Ball, where the mayde, Mary, is very 'formosa'--[handsome]--;
but, Lord! to see in what readiness I am, upon the expiring of my vowes this day, to begin
to run into all my pleasures and neglect of business.  Thence home, and being sleepy to bed.

16th.  Up betimes, and to the Duke of Albemarle with an account of my yesterday's actions in
writing.  So back to the office, where all the morning very busy.  After dinner by coach to
see and speak with Mr. Povy, and after little discourse back again home, where busy upon letters
till past 12 at night, and so home to supper and to bed, weary.

17th.  Up, and by appointment to a meeting of Sir John Lawson and Mr. Cholmly's atturney and
Mr. Povy at the Swan taverne at Westminster to settle their business about my being secured
in the payment of money to Sir J. Lawson in the other's absence.  Thence at Langford's, where
I never was since my brother died there.  I find my wife and Mercer, having with him agreed
upon two rich silk suits for me, which is fit for me to have, but yet the money is too much,
I doubt, to lay out altogether; but it is done, and so let it be, it being the expense of the
world that I can the best bear with and the worst spare.  Thence home, and after dinner to
the office, where late, and so home to supper and to bed.  Sir J. Minnes and I had an angry
bout this afternoon with Commissioner Pett about his neglecting his duty and absenting himself,
unknown to us, from his place at Chatham, but a most false man I every day find him more and
more, and in this very full of equivocation.  The fleete we doubt not come to Harwich by this
time.  Sir W. Batten is gone down this day thither, and the Duchesse of Yorke went down yesterday
to meet the Duke.

18th.  Up, and with Sir J. Minnes to the Duke of Albemarle, where we did much business, and
I with good content to myself; among other things we did examine Nixon and Stanesby, about
their late running from two Dutchmen;

     [Captain Edward Nixon, of the "Elizabeth," and Captain John
     Stanesby, of the "Eagle."  John Lanyon wrote to the Navy
     Commissioners from Plymouth, May 16th: "Understands from the seamen
     that the conduct of Captains Nixon and Stanesby in their late
     engagement with two Dutch capers was very foul; the night they left
     the Dutch, no lights were put out as formerly, and though in sight
     of them in the morning, they still kept on their way; the Eagle lay
     by some time, and both the enemy's ships plied on her, but finding
     the Elizabeth nearly out of sight she also made sail; it is true the
     wind and sea were high, but there were no sufficient reasons for
     such endeavours to get from them." ("Calendar of State Papers,"
     Domestic, 1664-65, p. 367).  Both captains were tried; Nixon was
     condemned to be shot but Stanesby was cleared, and Charnock asserts
     that he was commander the "Happy Return" in 1672.]

for which they are committed to a vessel to carry them to the fleete to be tried.  Thence with
the Duke of Albemarle in his coach to my Lord Treasurer, and there was before the King (who
ever now calls me by my name) and Lord Chancellor, and many other great Lords, discoursing
about insuring of some of the King's goods, wherein the King accepted of my motion that we
should; and so away, well pleased.  To the office, and dined, and then to the office again,
and abroad to speak with Sir G. Carteret; but, Lord! to see how fraile a man I am, subject
to my vanities, that can hardly forbear, though pressed with never so much business, my pursuing
of pleasure, but home I got, and there very busy very late. Among other things consulting with
Mr. Andrews about our Tangier business, wherein we are like to meet with some trouble, and
my Lord Bellasses's endeavour to supplant us, which vexes my mind; but, however, our undertaking
is so honourable that we shall stand a tug for it I think.  So home to supper and to bed.

19th.  Up, and to White Hall, where the Committee for Tangier met, and there, though the case
as to the merit of it was most plain and most of the company favourable to our business, yet
it was with much ado that I got the business not carried fully against us, but put off to another
day, my Lord Arlington being the great man in it, and I was sorry to be found arguing so greatly
against him.  The business I believe will in the end be carried against us, and the whole business
fall; I must therefore endeavour the most I can to get money another way.  It vexed me to see
Creed so hot against it, but I cannot much blame him, having never declared to him my being
concerned in it.  But that that troubles me most is my Lord Arlington calls to me privately
and asks me whether I had ever said to any body that I desired to leave this employment, having
not time to look after it.  I told him, No, for that the thing being settled it will not require
much time to look after it.  He told me then he would do me right to the King, for he had been
told so, which I desired him to do, and by and by he called me to him again and asked me whether
I had no friend about the Duke, asking me (I making a stand) whether Mr. Coventry was not my
friend.  I told him I had received many friendships from him. He then advised me to procure
that the Duke would in his next letter write to him to continue me in my place and remove any
obstruction; which I told him I would, and thanked him.  Being come home, I much troubled out
again by coach (for company taking Sir W. Warren with me), intending to have spoke to my Lord
Arlington to have known the bottom of it, but missed him, and afterwards discoursing the thing
as a confidant to Sir W. Warren, he did give me several good hints and principles not to do
anything suddenly, but consult my pillow upon that and every great thing of my life, before
I resolve anything in it. Away back home, and not being fit for business I took my wife and
Mercer down by water to Greenwich at 8 at night, it being very fine and cool and moonshine
afterward.  Mighty pleasant passage it was; there eat a cake or two, and so home by 10 or 11
at night, and then to bed, my mind not settled what to think.

20th.  Up, and to my office, where busy all the morning.  At noon dined at home, and to my
office, very busy.

21st.  Till past one, Lord's day, in the morning writing letters to the fleete and elsewhere,
and my mind eased of much business, home to bed and slept till 8.  So up, and this day is brought
home one of my new silk suits, the plain one, but very rich camelott and noble.  I tried it
and it pleases me, but did not wear it, being I would not go out today to church. So laid it
by, and my mind changed, thinking to go see my Lady Sandwich, and I did go a little way, but
stopped and returned home to dinner, after dinner up to my chamber to settle my Tangier accounts,
and then to my office, there to do the like with other papers.  In the evening home to supper
and to bed.

22nd.  Up, and down to the ships, which now are hindered from going down to the fleete (to
our great sorrow and shame) with their provisions, the wind being against them.  So to the
Duke of Albemarle, and thence down by water to Deptford, it being Trinity Monday, and so the
day of choosing the Master of Trinity House for the next yeare, where, to my great content,
I find that, contrary to the practice and design of Sir W. Batten, to breake the rule and custom
of the Company in choosing their Masters by succession, he would have brought in Sir W. Rider
or Sir W. Pen, over the head of Hurleston (who is a knave too besides, I believe), the younger
brothers did all oppose it against the elder, and with great heat did carry it for Hurleston,
which I know will vex him to the heart. Thence, the election being over, to church, where an
idle sermon from that conceited fellow, Dr. Britton, saving that his advice to unity, and laying
aside all envy and enmity among them was very apposite.  Thence walked to Redriffe, and so
to the Trinity House, and a great dinner, as is usual, and so to my office, where busy all
the afternoon till late, and then home to bed, being much troubled in mind for several things,
first, for the condition of the fleete for lacke of provisions, the blame this office lies
under and the shame that they deserve to have brought upon them for the ships not being gone
out of the River, and then for my business of Tangier which is not settled, and lastly for
fear that I am not observed to have attended the office business of late as much as I ought
to do, though there has been nothing but my attendance on Tangier that has occasioned my absence,
and that of late not much.

23rd.  Up, and at the office busy all the morning.  At noon dined alone, my wife and mother
being gone by invitation to dine with my mother's old servant Mr. Cordery, who made them very
welcome.  So to Mr. Povy's, where after a little discourse about his business I home again,
and late at the office busy.  Late comes Sir Arthur Ingram to my office, to tell me that, by
letters from Amsterdam of the 28th of this month (their style),

     [The new style was adopted by most of the countries of Europe long
     before it was legalized in England, although Russia still retains
     the old style.]

the Dutch fleete, being about 100 men-of-war, besides fire-ships, &c., did set out upon the
23rd and 24th inst.  Being divided into seven squadrons; viz., 1.  Generall Opdam.  2.  Cottenar,
of Rotterdam.

24th.  Up, and by 4 o'clock in the morning, and with W. Hewer, there till 12 without intermission
putting some papers in order.  Thence to the Coffee-house with Creed, where I have not been
a great while, where all the newes is of the Dutch being gone out, and of the plague growing
upon us in this towne; and of remedies against it: some saying one thing, some another.  So
home to dinner, and after dinner Creed and I to Colvill's, thinking to shew him all the respect
we could by obliging him in carrying him 5 tallys of L5000 to secure him for so much credit
he has formerly given Povy to Tangier, but he, like an impertinent fool, cavills at it, but
most ignorantly that ever I heard man in my life.

26th.  Up at 4 o'clock, and all the morning in my office with W. Hewer finishing my papers
that were so long out of order, and at noon to my bookseller's, and there bespoke a book or
two, and so home to dinner, where Creed dined with me, and he and I afterwards to Alderman
Backewell's to try him about supplying us with money, which he denied at first and last also,
saving that he spoke a little fairer at the end than before. But the truth is I do fear I shall
have a great deale of trouble in getting of money.  After a while at my office, home to supper
vexed, and to bed.

27th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning; at noon dined at home, and then to my
office again,, where late, and so to bed, with my mind full of fears for the business of this
office and troubled with that of Tangier, concerning which Mr. Povy was with me, but do give
me little help, but more reason of being troubled.  So that were it not for our Plymouth business
I would be glad to be rid of it.

28th (Lord's day).  Went to chapel and heard a little musique, and there met with Creed, and
with him a little while walking, and to Wilkinson's for me to drink, being troubled with winde,
and at noon to Sir Philip Warwicke's to dinner, where abundance of company come in unexpectedly;
and here I saw one pretty piece of household stuff, as the company increaseth, to put a larger
leaf upon an oval table.  After dinner much good discourse with Sir Philip, who I find, I think,
a most pious, good man, and a professor of a philosophical manner of life and principles like
Epictetus, whom he cites in many things.

29th.  Lay long in bed, being in some little pain of the wind collique, then up and to the
Duke of Albemarle, and so to the Swan, and there drank at Herbert's, and so by coach home,
it being kept a great holiday through the City, for the birth and restoration of the King.
To my office, where I stood by and saw Symson the joyner do several things, little jobbs, to
the rendering of my closet handsome and the setting up of some neat plates that Burston has
for my money made me, and so home to dinner, and then with my wife, mother, and Mercer in one
boat, and I in another, down to Woolwich.  I walking from Greenwich, the others going to and
fro upon the water till my coming back, having done but little business.  So home and to supper,
and, weary, to bed.  Our fleete resolved to sail out again from Harwich in a day or two.

30th.  Lay long, and very busy all the morning, at noon to the 'Change, and thence to dinner
to Sir G. Carteret's, to talk upon the business of insuring our goods upon the Hambrough [ships].
Here a very fine, neat French dinner, without much cost, we being all alone with my Lady and
one of the house with her; thence home and wrote letters, and then in the evening, by coach,
with my wife and mother and Mercer, our usual tour by coach, and eat at the old house at Islington;
but, Lord! to see how my mother found herself talk upon every object to think of old stories.
Here I met with one that tells me that Jack Cole, my old schoolefellow, is dead and buried
lately of a consumption, who was a great crony of mine.  So back again home, and there to my
closet to write letters.  Hear to my great trouble that our Hambrough ships,

     [On May 29th Sir William Coventry wrote to Lord Arlington: "Capt.
     Langhorne has arrived with seven ships, and reports the taking of
     the Hamburg fleet with the man of war their convoy; mistaking the
     Dutch fleet for the English, he fell into it" ("Calendar of State
     Papers," Domestic, 1664-65, p. 393)]

valued of the King's goods and the merchants' (though but little of the former) to L200,000
[are lost].  By and by, about 11 at night, called into the garden by my Lady Pen and daughter,
and there walked with them and my wife till almost twelve, and so in and closed my letters,
and home to bed.

31st.  Thence home with Creed and Mr. Moore to dinner. Anon we broke up, and Creed and I to
discourse about our Tangier matters of money, which vex me.  So to Gresham College, staid a
very little while, and away and I home busy, and busy late, at the end of the month, about
my month's accounts, but by the addition of Tangier it is rendered more intricate, and so (which
I have not done these 12 months, nor would willingly have done now) failed of having it done,
but I will do it as soon as I can.  So weary and sleepy to bed.  I endeavoured but missed of
seeing Sir Thomas Ingram at Westminster, so went to Houseman's the Painter, who I intend shall
draw my wife, but he was not within, but I saw several very good pictures.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                  JUNE
                                  1665

June 1st.  Up and to the office, where sat all the morning, at noon to the 'Change, and there
did some business, and home to dinner, whither Creed comes, and after dinner I put on my new
silke camelott sute; the best that ever I wore in my life, the sute costing me above L24. 
Hither come up to us Dr. Allen, and then Mr. Povy and Mr. Fox.  The show being over, and my
discourse with Mr. Povy, I took coach and to Westminster Hall, where I took the fairest flower,
and by coach to Tothill Fields for the ayre till it was dark.  I 'light, and in with the fairest
flower to eat a cake, and there did do as much as was safe with my flower, and that was enough
on my part.  Broke up, and away without any notice, and, after delivering the rose where it
should be, I to the Temple and 'light, and come to the middle door, and there took another
coach, and so home to write letters, but very few, God knows, being by my pleasure made to
forget everything that is.  The coachman that carried [us] cannot know me again, nor the people
at the house where we were.  Home to bed, certain news being come that our fleete is in sight
of the Dutch ships.

2nd.  Lay troubled in mind abed a good while, thinking of my Tangier and victualling business,
which I doubt will fall.  Up and to the Duke of Albemarle, but missed him.  Thence to the Harp
and Ball and to Westminster Hall, where I visited "the flowers" in each place, and so met with
Mr. Creed, and he and I to Mrs. Croft's to drink and did, but saw not her daughter Borroughes.
I away home, and there dined and did business.  In the afternoon went with my tallys, made
a fair end with Colvill and Viner, delivering them L5000 tallys to each and very quietly had
credit given me upon other tallys of Mr. Colvill for L2000 and good words for more, and of
Mr. Viner too.  Thence to visit the Duke of Albemarle, and thence my Lady Sandwich and Lord
Crew.  Thence home, and there met an expresse from Sir W. Batten at Harwich, that the fleete
is all sailed from Solebay, having spied the Dutch fleete at sea, and that, if the calmes hinder
not, they must needs now be engaged with them. Another letter also come to me from Mr. Hater,
committed by the Council this afternoon to the Gate House, upon the misfortune of having his
name used by one, without his knowledge or privity, for the receiving of some powder that he
had bought.  Up to Court about these two, and for the former was led up to my Lady Castlemayne's
lodgings, where the King and she and others were at supper, and there I read the letter and
returned; and then to Sir G. Carteret about Hater, and shall have him released to-morrow, upon
my giving bail for his appearance, which I have promised to do.  Sir G. Carteret did go on
purpose to the King to ask this, and it was granted.  So home at past 12, almost one o'clock
in the morning.  To my office till past two, and then home to supper and to bed.

3rd.  Up and to White Hall, where Sir G. Carteret did go with me to Secretary Morris, and prevailed
with him to let Mr. Hater be released upon bail for his appearance.  So I at a loss how to
get another besides myself, and got Mr. Hunt, who did patiently stay with me all the morning
at Secretary Morris's chamber, Mr. Hater being sent for with his keeper, and at noon comes
in the Secretary, and upon entering [into] recognizances, he for L200, and Mr. Hunt and I for
L100 each for his appearance upon demand, he was released, it costing him, I think, above L3.
I thence home, vexed to be kept from the office all the morning, which I had not been in many
months before, if not some years.  At home to dinner, and all the afternoon at the office,
where late at night, and much business done, then home to supper and to bed.

4th (Sunday).  Up and at my chamber all the forenoon, at evening my accounts, which I could
not do sooner, for the last month, and, blessed be God!  am worth L1400 odd money, something
more than ever I was yet in the world.  Dined very well at noon, and then to my office, and
there and in the garden discoursed with several people about business, among others Mr. Howell,
the turner, who did give me so good a discourse about the practices of the Paymaster J. Fenn
that I thought fit to recollect all when he was gone, and have entered it down to be for ever
remembered. Thence to my chamber again to settle my Tangier accounts against tomorrow and some
other things, and with great joy ended them, and so to supper, where a good fowl and tansy,
and so to bed.  Newes being come that our fleete is pursuing the Dutch, who, either by cunning,
or by being worsted, do give ground, but nothing more for certain.  Late to bed upon my papers
being quite finished.

5th.  Up very betimes to look some other papers, and then to White Hall to a Committee of Tangier,
where I offered my accounts with great acceptation, and so had some good words and honour by
it, and one or two things done to my content in my business of Treasurer, but I do clearly
see that we shall lose our business of victualling, Sir Thomas Ingram undertaking that it shall
be done by persons there as cheap as we do it, and give the seamen their full allowance and
themselves give good security here for performance of contract, upon which terms there is no
opposing it.  This would trouble me, but that I hope when that fails to spend my time to some
good advantage other ways, and so shall permit it all to God Almighty's pleasure.  Thence home
to dinner, after 'Change, where great talke of the Dutch being fled and we in pursuit of them,
and that our ship Charity

     [Sir William Coventry and Sir William Penn to the Navy
     Commissioners, June 4th: "Engaged yesterday with the Dutch; they
     began to stand away at 3 p.m.  Chased them all the rest of the day
     and night; 20 considerable ships are destroyed and taken; we have
     only lost the Great Charity.  The Earl of Marlborough, Rear-Admiral
     Sansum, and Captain Kirby are slain, and Sir John Lawson wounded"
     ("Calendar of State Papers," Domestic, 1664-65, p. 406).]

is lost upon our Captain's, Wilkinson, and Lieutenant's yielding, but of this there is no certainty,
save the report of some of the sicke men of the Charity, turned adrift in a boat out of the
Charity and taken up and brought on shore yesterday to Sole Bay, and the newes hereof brought
by Sir Henry Felton. Home to dinner, and Creed with me.  Then he and I down to Deptford, did
some business, and back again at night.  He home, and I to my office, and so to supper and
to bed.  This morning I had great discourse with my Lord Barkeley about Mr. Hater, towards
whom from a great passion reproaching him with being a fanatique and dangerous for me to keepe,
I did bring him to be mighty calme and to ask me pardons for what he had thought of him and
to desire me to ask his pardon of Hater himself for the ill words he did give him the other
day alone at White Hall (which was, that he had always thought him a man that was no good friend
to the King, but did never think it would breake out in a thing of this nature), and did advise
him to declare his innocence to the Council and pray for his examination and vindication. 
Of which I shall consider and say no more, but remember one compliment that in great kindness
to me he did give me, extolling my care and diligence, that he did love me heartily for my
owne sake, and more that he did will me whatsoever I thought for Mr. Coventry's sake, for though
the world did think them enemies, and to have an ill aspect, one to another, yet he did love
him with all his heart, which was a strange manner of noble compliment, confessing his owning
me as a confidant and favourite of Mr. Coventry's.

6th.  Waked in the morning before 4 o'clock with great pain to piss, and great pain in pissing
by having, I think, drank too great a draught of cold drink before going to bed.  But by and
by to sleep again, and then rose and to the office, where very busy all the morning, and at
noon to dinner with Sir G. Carteret to his house with all our Board, where a good pasty and
brave discourse.  But our great fear was some fresh news of the fleete, but not from the fleete,
all being said to be well and beaten the Dutch, but I do not give much belief to it, and indeed
the news come from Sir W. Batten at Harwich, and writ so simply that we all made good mirth
of it.  Thence to the office, where upon Sir G. Carteret's accounts, to my great vexation there
being nothing done by the Controller to right the King therein.  Thence by coach home, and
to my office a little, and so before 12 o'clock home and to bed.

7th.  This morning my wife and mother rose about two o'clock; and with Mercer, Mary, the boy,
and W. Hewer, as they had designed, took boat and down to refresh themselves on the water to
Gravesend.  Lay till 7 o'clock, then up and to the office upon Sir G. Carteret's accounts again,
where very busy; thence abroad and to the 'Change, no news of certainty being yet come from
the fleete.  Thence to the Dolphin Taverne, where Sir J. Minnes, Lord Brunkard, Sir Thomas
Harvy, and myself dined, upon Sir G. Carteret's charge, and very merry we were, Sir Thomas
Harvy being a very drolle.  Thence to the office, and meeting Creed away with him to my Lord
Treasurer's, there thinking to have met the goldsmiths, at White Hall, but did not, and so
appointed another time for my Lord to speak to them to advance us some money.  Thence, it being
the hottest day that ever I felt in my life, and it is confessed so by all other people the
hottest they ever knew in England in the beginning of June, we to the New Exchange, and there
drunk whey, with much entreaty getting it for our money, and [they] would not be entreated
to let us have one glasse more. So took water and to Fox-Hall, to the Spring garden, and there
walked an houre or two with great pleasure, saving our minds ill at ease concerning the fleete
and my Lord Sandwich, that we have no newes of them, and ill reports run up and down of his
being killed, but without ground.  Here staid pleasantly walking and spending but 6d. till
nine at night, and then by water to White Hall, and there I stopped to hear news of the fleete,
but none come, which is strange, and so by water home, where, weary with walking and with the
mighty heat of the weather, and for my wife's not coming home, I staying walking in the garden
till twelve at night, when it begun to lighten exceedingly, through the greatness of the heat.
Then despairing of her coming home, I to bed.  It put me into an ill conception of myself and
my smell, so that I was forced to buy some roll-tobacco to smell to and chaw, which took away
the apprehension.

8th.  About five o'clock my wife come home, it having lightened all night hard, and one great
shower of rain.  She come and lay upon the bed; I up and to the office, where all the morning.
Alone at home to dinner, my wife, mother, and Mercer dining at W. Joyce's; I giving her a caution
to go round by the Half Moone to his house, because of the plague.  The particulars I shall
set down by and by. By and by comes Alderman Maynell and Mr. Viner, and there my Lord Treasurer
did intreat them to furnish me with money upon my tallys, Sir Philip Warwicke before my Lord
declaring the King's changing of the hand from Mr. Povy to me, whom he called a very sober
person, and one whom the Lord Treasurer would owne in all things that I should concern myself
with them in the business of money.  They did at present declare they could not part with money
at present.  My Lord did press them very hard, and I hope upon their considering we shall get
some of them.  The Duke sent Jordan

     [Afterwards Sir Joseph Jordan, commander of the "Royal Sovereign,"
     and Vice-Admiral of the Red, 1672.  A great[er] victory never known in the world.  They are all
fled, some 43 got into the Texell, and others elsewhere, and we in pursuit
of the rest.  Thence, with my heart full of joy; home, and to my office a
little; then to my Lady Pen's, where they are all joyed and not a little
puffed up at the good successe of their father;

     [In the royal charter granted by Charles II. in 1680 to William Penn
     for the government of his American province, to be styled
     Pennsylvania, special reference is made to "the memory and merits of
     Sir William Penn in divers services, and particularly his conduct,
     courage, and discretion under our dearest brother, James, Duke of
     York, in that signal battle and victory fought and obtained against
     the Dutch fleet commanded by Heer van Opdam in 1665" ("Penn's
     Memorials of Sir W. Penn," vol. ii., p. 359).]

and good service indeed is said to have been done by him.  Had a great bonefire at the gate;
and I with my Lady Pen's people and others to Mrs. Turner's great room, and then down into
the streete.  I did give the boys 4s. among them, and mighty merry.  So home to bed, with my
heart at great rest and quiett, saving that the consideration of the victory is too great for
me presently to comprehend.

     [Mrs. Ady (Julia Cartwright), in her fascinating life of Henrietta,
     Duchess of Orleans, gives an account of the receipt of the news of
     the great sea-fight in Paris, and quotes a letter of Charles II. to
     his sister, dated, "Whitehall, June 8th, 1665"  The first report
     that reached Paris was that "the Duke of York's ship had been blown
     up, and he himself had been drowned."  "The shock was too much for
     Madame .  .  .  she was seized with convulsions, and became so
     dangerously ill that Lord Hollis wrote to the king, 'If things had
     gone ill at sea I really believe Madame would have died.'"  Charles
     wrote: "I thanke God we have now the certayne newes of a very
     considerable victory over the Duch; you will see most of the
     particulars by the relation my Lord Hopis will shew you, though I
     have had as great a losse as 'tis possible in a good frinde, poore
     C. Barckely.  It troubles me so much, as I hope you will excuse the
     shortnesse of this letter, haveing receaved the newes of it but two
     houres agoe" ("Madame," 1894, pp.  215, 216).]

9th.  Lay long in bed, my head akeing with too much thoughts I think last night.  Home, where
my people busy to make ready a supper against night for some guests, in lieu of my stonefeast.
At noon eat a small dinner at home, and so abroad to buy several things, and among others with
my taylor to buy a silke suit, which though I had one lately, yet I do, for joy of the good
newes we have lately had of our victory over the Dutch, which makes me willing to spare myself
something extraordinary in clothes; and after long resolution of having nothing but black,
I did buy a coloured silk ferrandin.  So to the Old Exchange, and there at my pretty seamstresses
bought a pair of stockings of her husband, and so home, where by and by comes Mr. Honiwood
and Mrs. Wilde, and Roger Pepys and, after long time spent, Mrs. Turner, The. and Joyce. We
had a very good venison pasty, this being instead of my stone-feast the last March, and very
merry we were, and the more I know the more I like Mr. Honiwood's conversation.  So after a
good supper they parted, walking to the 'Change for a coach, and I with them to see them there.
So home and to bed, glad it was over.

10th.  Lay long in bed, and then up and at the office all the morning. At noon dined at home,
and then to the office busy all the afternoon.  To the office to finish my letters and then
home to bed, being troubled at the sicknesse, and my head filled also with other business enough,
and particularly how to put my things and estate in order, in case it should please God to
call me away, which God dispose of to his glory!

11th (Lord's day).  Up, and expected long a new suit; but, coming not, dressed myself in my
late new black silke camelott suit; and, when fully ready, comes my new one of coloured ferrandin,
which my wife puts me out of love with, which vexes me, but I think it is only my not being
used to wear colours which makes it look a little unusual upon me.  To my chamber and there
spent the morning reading.  At noon, by invitation, comes my two cozen Joyces and their wives,
my aunt James and he-cozen Harman, his wife being ill.  I had a good dinner for them, and as
merry as I could be in such company.  In the evening comes Mr. Andrews and his wife and Mr.
Hill, and staid and played, and sung and supped, most excellent pretty company, so pleasant,
ingenious, and harmless, I cannot desire better.  They gone we to bed, my mind in great present
ease.

12th.  Up, and in my yesterday's new suit to the Duke of Albemarle, and after a turne in White
Hall, and then in Westminster Hall, returned, and with my taylor bought some gold lace for
my sleeve hands in Pater Noster Row.  So home to dinner, and then to the office, and down the
River to Deptford, and then back again and to my Lord Treasurer's, and up and down to look
after my Tangier business, and so home to my office, then to supper and to bed.  The Duke of
Yorke is sent for last night and expected to be here to-morrow.

13th.  Up and to the office, where all the morning doing business. His name, Sir John Lawrence,
whose father, a very ordinary old man, sat there at table, but it seems a very rich man.  The
Alderman did here openly tell in boasting how he had, only upon suspicion of disturbances,
if there had been any bad newes from sea, clapped up several persons that he was afeard of;
and that he had several times done the like and would do, and take no bail where he saw it
unsafe for the King.  But by and by he said that he was now sued in the Exchequer by a man
for false imprisonment, that he had, upon the same score, imprisoned while he was Mayor four
years ago, and asked advice upon it.  I told him I believed there was none, and told my story
of Field, at which he was troubled, and said that it was then unsafe for any man to serve the
King, and, I believed, knows not what to do therein; but that Sir Richard Browne, of the Councill,
advised him to speak with my Lord Chancellor about it.  My Lord Mayor very respectfull to me;
and so I after dinner away and found Sir J. Minnes ready with his coach and four horses at
our office gate, for him and me to go out of towne to meet the Duke of Yorke coming from Harwich
to-night, and so as far as Ilford, and there 'light.  By and by comes to us Sir John Shaw and
Mr. Neale, that married the rich widow Gold, upon the same errand.  After eating a dish of
creame, we took coach again, hearing nothing of the Duke, and away home, a most pleasant evening
and road.  And so to my office, where, after my letters wrote, to supper and to bed.  All our
discourse in our way was Sir J. Minnes's telling me passages of the late King's and his father's,
which I was mightily pleased to hear for information, though the pride of some persons and
vice of most was but a sad story to tell how that brought the whole kingdom and King to ruine.

14th.  Up, and to Sir Ph. Warwicke's and other places, about Tangier business, but to little
purpose.  Among others to my Lord Treasurer's, there to speak with him, and waited in the lobby
three long hours for to speake with him, to the trial of my utmost patience, but missed him
at last, and forced to go home without it, which may teach me how I make others wait.  Home
to dinner and staid Mr. Hater with me, and after dinner drew up a petition for Mr. Hater to
present to the Councill about his troublesome business of powder, desiring a trial that his
absence may be vindicated, and so to White Hall, but it was not proper to present it to-day.
Met with Creed, and he and I to Westminster; and there saw my Lord Marlborough

     [Of the four distinguished men who died after the late action with
     the Dutch and were buried in Westminster Abbey, the Earl of
     Marlborough was interred on June 14th, Viscount Muskerry on the
     19th, the Earl of Falmouth on the 22nd, and Sir Edward Broughton on
     the 26th.  After the entries in the Abbey Registers is this note:
     "These four last Honble Persons dyed in his Majy's service against
     the Dutch, excepting only that ST Ed Br received his death's wound
     at sea, but dyed here at home" (Chester's "Westminster Abbey
     Registers," p. 162).]

brought to be buried, several Lords of the Council carrying him, and with the herald in some
state.  Thence, vexed in my mind to think that I do so little in my Tangier business, and so
home, and after supper to bed.

15th.  Up, and put on my new stuff suit with close knees, which becomes me
most nobly, as my wife says.  At the office all day.  At noon, put on my
first laced band, all lace; and to Kate Joyce's to dinner, where my
mother, wife, and abundance of their friends, and good usage.  Thence,
wife and Mercer and I to the Old Exchange, and there bought two lace bands
more, one of my semstresse, whom my wife concurs with me to be a pretty
woman.  So down to Deptford and Woolwich, my boy and I.  At Woolwich,
discoursed with Mr. Sheldon about my bringing my wife down for a month or
two to his house, which he approves of, and, I think, will be very
convenient.  So late back, and to the office, wrote letters, and so home
to supper and to bed.  Up and to the office, where I set hard to business, but was
informed that the Duke of Yorke is come, and hath appointed us to attend
him this afternoon.  Sir William Coventry,
     in a letter to Lord Arlington (dated from "The Royal Charles,"
     Southwold Bay, June 13th), writes: "Capt. Holmes asked to be rear
     admiral of the white squadron in place of Sansum who was killed, but
     the Duke gave the place to Captain Harman, on which he delivered up
     his commission, which the Duke received, and put Captain Langhorne
     in his stead"

     ["The Prince" was Lord Sandwich's ship; the captain was Roger
     Cuttance.  It was put up at Chatham for repair at this date.]

It is strange to see how people do already slight Sir William Barkeley,

     [Sir William Berkeley, see note, vol.  iii., p.  334.  His behaviour
     after the death of his brother, Lord Falmouth, is severely commented
     on in "Poems on State Affairs," vol. i., p. 29

              "Berkeley had heard it soon, and thought not good
               To venture more of royal Harding's blood;
               To be immortal he was not of age,
               And did e'en now the Indian Prize presage;
               And judged it safe and decent, cost what cost,
               To lose the day, since his dear brother's lost. Thence
home and to my office till past twelve, and then home to supper and to
bed, my wife and mother not being yet come home from W. Hewer's chamber,
who treats my mother tonight.  My wife come to bed about one in the morning.  I up and abroad
about Tangier business, then back to the office, where we sat, and at noon
home to dinner, and then abroad to Mr. Povy's, after I and Mr. Andrews had
been with Mr. Ball and one Major Strange, who looks after the getting of
money for tallys and is helping Mr. Andrews.  I had much discourse with
Ball, and it may be he may prove a necessary man for our turns.  With Mr.
Povy I spoke very freely my indifference as to my place of Treasurer,
being so much troubled in it, which he took with much seeming trouble,
that I should think of letting go so lightly the place, but if the place
can't be held I will.  So hearing that my Lord Treasurer was gone out of
town with his family because of the sicknesse, I returned home without
staying there, and at the office find Sir W. Pen come home, who looks very
well; and I am gladder to see him than otherwise I should be because of my
hearing so well of him for his serviceablenesse in this late great action.
To the office late, and then home to bed.

18th (Lord's day).  Up, and to church, where Sir W. Pen was the first time [since he] come
from sea, after the battle.  Mr. Mills made a sorry sermon to prove that there was a world
to come after this.  Home and dined and then to my chamber, where all the afternoon.  Anon
comes Mr. Andrews to see and sing with me, but Mr. Hill not coming, and having business, we
soon parted, there coming Mr. Povy and Creed to discourse about our Tangier business of money.
They gone, I hear Sir W. Batten and my Lady are returned from Harwich.  I went to see them,
and it is pretty to see how we appear kind one to another, though neither of us care 2d. one
for another.  Home to supper, and there coming a hasty letter from Commissioner Pett for pressing
of some calkers (as I would ever on his Majesty's service), with all speed, I made a warrant
presently and issued it.  So to my office a little, and then home to bed.

19th.  Up, and to White Hall with Sir W. Batten (calling at my Lord Ashly's, but to no purpose,
by the way, he being not up), and there had our usual meeting before the Duke with the officers
of the Ordnance with us, which in some respects I think will be the better for us, for despatch
sake.  Thence home to the 'Change and dined alone (my wife gone to her mother's), after dinner
to my little new goldsmith's,

     [John Colvill of Lombard Street, see ante, May 24th.  He lost
     L85,832  17s. 2d.  by the closing of the Exchequer in 1672, and he
     died between 1672 and 1677 (Price's "Handbook of London Bankers ").]

whose wife indeed is one of the prettiest, modest black women that ever I saw.  I paid for
a dozen of silver salts L6 14s. 6d.  Thence with Sir W. Pen from the office down to Greenwich
to see Sir J. Lawson, who is better, but continues ill; his hickupp not being yet gone, could
have little discourse with him.  So thence home and to supper, a while to the office, my head
and mind mightily vexed to see the multitude of papers and business before [me] and so little
time to do it in.  So to bed.

20th.  Thankes-giving-day for victory over ye Dutch.  Up, and to the office, where very busy
alone all the morning till church time, and there heard a mean sorry sermon of Mr. Mills.

     The Delights of the Bottle, or the Compleat Vintner, 3rd ed., 1721,
     p. 29.]

--come to 34s. a man, nine of us.  Thence after dinner, to White Hall with Sir W. Berkely in
his coach, and so walked to Herbert's and there spent a little time .  .  .  .  So I home and
to supper and to bed, my wife come home when I come from the office.  The Dutch are come out
again with 20 sail under Bankert; supposed gone to the Northward to meete their East India fleete.

21st.  Up, and very busy all the morning.  Home, and my uncle Wight and aunt James dined with
me, my mother being to go away to-morrow.  So to White Hall, and there before and after Council
discoursed with Sir Thomas Ingram about our ill case as to Tangier for money.  He hath got
the King to appoint a meeting on Friday, which I hope will put an end one way or other to my
pain.  So homewards and to the Cross Keys at Cripplegate, where I find all the towne almost
going out of towne, the coaches and waggons being all full of people going into the country.
Here I had some of the company of the tapster's wife a while, and so home to my office, and
then home to supper and to bed.

22nd.  Up pretty betimes, and in great pain whether to send my another into the country to-day
or no, I hearing, by my people, that she, poor wretch, hath a mind to stay a little longer,
and I cannot blame her, considering what a life she will through her own folly lead when she
comes home again, unlike the pleasure and liberty she hath had here.  At last I resolved to
put it to her, and she agreed to go, so I would not oppose it, because of the sicknesse in
the towne, and my intentions of removing my wife.  So I did give her money and took a kind
leave of her, she, poor wretch, desiring that I would forgive my brother John, but I refused
it to her, which troubled her, poor soul, but I did it in kind words and so let the discourse
go off, she leaving me though in a great deal of sorrow.  So I to my office and left my wife
and people to see her out of town, and I at the office all the morning.  At noon my wife tells
me that she is with much ado gone, and I pray God bless her, but it seems she was to the last
unwilling to go, but would not say so, but put it off till she lost her place in the coach,
and was fain to ride in the waggon part.  After dinner to the office again till night, very
busy, and so home not very late to supper and to bed.

23rd.  Up and to White Hall to a Committee for Tangier, where his Royal Highness was.  Our
great design was to state to them the true condition of this Committee for want of money, the
want whereof was so great as to need some sudden help, and it was with some content resolved
to see it supplied and means proposed towards the doing of it.  At this Committee, unknown
to me, comes my Lord of Sandwich, who, it seems, come to towne last night.  It therefore troubles
my Lord that Mr. Coventry should not mention a word of him in his relation.  I did, in answer,
offer that I was sure the relation was not compiled by Mr. Coventry, but by L'Estrange, out
of several letters, as I could witness; and that Mr. Coventry's letter that he did give the
Duke of Albemarle did give him as much right as the Prince, for I myself read it first and
then copied it out, which I promised to show my Lord, with which he was somewhat satisfied.
So parted, with my head full of care about this business. Thence home to the 'Change, and so
to dinner, and thence by coach to Mr. Povy's.  Thence by appointment with him and Creed to
one Mr. Finch; one of the Commissioners for the Excise, to be informed about some things of
the Excise, in order to our settling matters therein better for us for our Tangier business.
I find him a very discreet, grave person.  Thence well satisfied I and Creed to Mr. Fox at
White Hall to speak with him about the same matter, and having some pretty satisfaction from
him also, he and I took boat and to Fox Hall, where we spent two or three hours talking of
several matters very soberly and contentfully to me, which, with the ayre and pleasure of the
garden, was a great refreshment to me, and, 'methinks, that which we ought to joy ourselves
in.  Thence back to White Hall, where we parted, and I to find my Lord to receive his farther
direction about his proposal this morning.  Wherein I did that I should first by another hand
break my intentions to Sir G. Carteret.  I pitched upon Dr. Clerke, which my Lord liked, and
so I endeavoured but in vain to find him out to-night.  So home by hackney-coach, which is
become a very dangerous passage now-a-days, the sickness increasing mightily, and to bed.

24th (Midsummer-day).  So being both well pleased with the proposition, I saw his niece there
and made her sing me two or three songs very prettily, and so home to the office, where to
my great trouble I found Mr. Coventry and the board met before I come.  I excused my late coming
by having been on the River about office business.  So to business all the morning.  At noon
Captain Ferrers and Mr. Moore dined with me, the former of them the first time I saw him since
his corning from sea, who do give me the best conversation in general, and as good an account
of the particular service of the Prince and my Lord of Sandwich in the late sea-fight that
I could desire.  After dinner they parted.  So to Dr. Clerke, and there found that he had broke
the business to Sir G. Carteret, and that he takes the thing mighty well.  So home and to my
letters by the post, and so home to supper and bed.

25th (Lord's day).  Up, and several people about business come to me by appointment relating
to the office.  Thence I to my closet about my Tangier papers. Which message I did presently
do, and so left the business with great joy to both sides.  My Lord, I perceive, intends to
give L5000 with her, and expects about L800 per annum joynture.  So by water home and to supper
and bed, being weary with long walking at Court, but had a Psalm or two with my boy and Mercer
before bed, which pleased me mightily.  This night Sir G. Carteret told me with great kindnesse
that the order of the Council did run for the making of Hater and Whitfield incapable of any
serving the King again, but that he had stopped the entry of it, which he told me with great
kindnesse, but the thing troubles me.  After dinner, before I went to White Hall, I went down
to Greenwich by water, thinking to have visited Sir J. Lawson, where, when I come, I find that
he is dead, and died this morning, at which I was much surprized; and indeed the nation hath
a great loss; though I cannot, without dissembling, say that I am sorry for it, for he was
a man never kind to me at all.  He did concur with me that, for the Duke's honour and safety,
it were best, after so great a service and victory and danger, not to go again; and, above
all, that the life of the Duke cannot but be a security to the Crowne; if he were away, it
being more easy to attempt anything upon the King; but how the fleete will be governed without
him, the Prince--[Rupert]--being a man of no government and severe in council, that no ordinary
man can offer any advice against his; saying truly that it had been better he had gone to Guinny,
and that were he away, it were easy to say how matters might be ordered, my Lord Sandwich being
a man of temper and judgment as much as any man he ever knew, and that upon good observation
he said this, and that his temper must correct the Prince's. But I perceive he is much troubled
what will be the event of the question. And so I left him.

26th.  Up and to White Hall with Sir J. Minnes, and to the Committee of Tangier, where my Lord
Treasurer was, the first and only time he ever was there, and did promise us L15,000 for Tangier
and no more, which will be short.  But if I can pay Mr. Andrews all his money I care for no
more, and the bills of Exchange.  Thence with Mr. Povy and Creed below to a new chamber of
Mr. Povy's, very pretty, and there discourse about his business, not to his content, but with
the most advantage I could to him, and Creed also did the like.  Thence with Creed to the King's
Head, and there dined with him at the ordinary, and good sport with one Mr. Nicholls, a prating
coxcombe, that would be thought a poet, but would not be got to repeat any of his verses. 
Thence I home, and there find my wife's brother and his wife, a pretty little modest woman,
where they dined with my wife.  He did come to desire my assistance for a living, and, upon
his good promises of care, and that it should be no burden to me, I did say and promise I would
think of finding something for him, and the rather because his wife seems a pretty discreet
young thing, and humble, and he, above all things, desirous to do something to maintain her,
telling me sad stories of what she endured with him in Holland, and I hope it will not be burdensome.
So down by water to Woolwich, walking to and again from Greenwich thither and back again, my
business being to speak again with Sheldon, who desires and expects my wife coming thither
to spend the summer, and upon second thoughts I do agree that it will be a good place for her
and me too.  So, weary, home, and to my office a while, till almost midnight, and so to bed.

27th.  Up and to the office, where all the morning.  At noon dined by chance at my Lady Batten's,
and they sent for my wife, and there was my Lady Pen and Pegg.  Very merry, and so I to my
office again, where till 12 o'clock at night, and so home to supper and to bed.

28th.  Sir J. Minnes carried me and my wife to White Hall, and thence his coach along with
my wife where she would.  There after attending the Duke to discourse of the navy.  We did
not kiss his hand, nor do I think, for all their pretence, of going away to-morrow.  Thence
by water to Blackfriars, and so to Paul's churchyard and bespoke severall books, and so home
and there dined, my man William giving me a lobster sent him by my old maid Sarah.  This morning
I met with Sir G. Carteret, who tells me how all things proceed between my Lord Sandwich and
himself to full content, and both sides depend upon having the match finished presently, and
professed great kindnesse to me, and said that now we were something akin.  I am mightily,
both with respect to myself and much more of my Lord's family, glad of this alliance.  After
dinner to White Hall, thinking to speak with my Lord Ashly, but failed, and I whiled away some
time in Westminster Hall against he did come, in my way observing several plague houses in
King's Street and [near] the Palace.  Here I hear Mrs. Martin is gone out of town, and that
her husband, an idle fellow, is since come out of France, as he pretends, but I believe not
that he hath been.  I was fearful of going to any house, but I did to the Swan, and thence
to White Hall, giving the waterman a shilling, because a young fellow and belonging to the
Plymouth.  Thence by coach to several places, and so home, and all the evening with Sir J.
Minnes and all the women of the house (excepting my Lady Batten) late in the garden chatting.
At 12 o'clock home to supper and to bed.  My Lord Sandwich is gone towards the sea to-day,
it being a sudden resolution, I having taken no leave of him.

29th.  Up and by water to White Hall, where the Court full of waggons and people ready to go
out of towne.  To the Harp and Ball, and there drank and talked with Mary, she telling me in
discourse that she lived lately at my neighbour's, Mr. Knightly, which made me forbear further
discourse. This end of the towne every day grows very bad of the plague.  The Mortality Bill
is come to 267;

     [According to the Bills of Mortality, the total number of deaths in
     London for the week ending June 27th was 684, of which number 267
     were deaths from the plague.  The number of deaths rose week by week
     until September 19th, when the total was 8,297, and the deaths from
     the plague 7,165.  On September 26th the total had fallen to 6,460,
     and deaths from the plague to 5,533 The number fell gradually, week
     by week, till October 31st, when the total was 1,388, and deaths
     from the plague 1,031.  On November 7th there was a rise to 1,787
     and 1,414 respectively.  On November 14th the numbers had gone down
     to 1,359 and 1,050 respectively.  On December 12th the total had
     fallen to 442, and deaths from the plague to 243.  On December 19th
     there was a rise to 525 and 281 respectively.  The total of burials
     in 1665 was 97,506, of which number the plague claimed 68,596
     victims.]

which is about ninety more than the last: and of these but four in the City, which is a great
blessing to us.  Thence to Creed, and with him up and down about Tangier business, to no purpose.

     [The Queen-Mother never came to England again.  She retired to her
     chateau at Colombes, near Paris, where she died in August, 1669,
     after a long illness; the immediate cause of her death being an
     opiate ordered by her physicians.  She was buried, September 12th,
     in the church of St. Denis.  Her funeral sermon was preached by
     Bossuet.  Sir John Reresby speaks of Queen Henrietta Maria in high
     terms.  He says that in the winter, 1659-60, although the Court of
     France was very splendid, there was a greater resort to the Palais
     Royal, "the good humour and wit of our Queen Mother, and the beauty
     of the Princess [Henrietta] her daughter, giving greater invitation
     than the more particular humour of the French Queen, being a
     Spaniard."  In another place he says: "Her majesty had a great
     affection for England, notwithstanding the severe usage she and hers
     had received from it.  Her discourse was much with the great men and
     ladies of France in praise of the people and of the country; of
     their courage, generosity, good nature; and would excuse all their
     miscarriages in relation to unfortunate effects of the late war, as
     if it were a convulsion of some desperate and infatuated persons,
     rather than from the genius and temper of the kingdom" ("Memoirs of
     Sir John Reresby," ed.  Cartwright, pp. 43, 45).]

So by coach home, where at the office all the morning, and at noon Mrs. Hunt dined with us.
Very merry, and she a very good woman.  To the office, where busy a while putting some things
in my office in order, and then to letters till night.  About 10 a'clock home, the days being
sensibly shorter before I have once kept a summer's day by shutting up office by daylight;
but my life hath been still as it was in winter almost.  But I will for a month try what I
can do by daylight.  So home to supper and to bed.

30th.  Up and to White Hall, to the Duke of Albemarle, who I find at Secretary Bennet's, there
being now no other great Statesman, I think, but my Lord Chancellor, in towne.  I received
several commands from them; among others, to provide some bread and cheese for the garrison
at Guernsey, which they promised to see me paid for.  So to the 'Change, and home to dinner.
In the afternoon I down to Woolwich and after me my wife and Mercer, whom I led to Mr. Sheldon's
to see his house, and I find it a very pretty place for them to be at.  So I back again, walking
both forward and backward, and left my wife to come by water.  I straight to White Hall, late,
to Secretary Bennet's to give him an account of the business I received from him to-day, and
there staid weary and sleepy till past 12 at night.  Then writ my mind to him, and so back
by water and in the dark and against tide shot the bridge, groping with their pole for the
way, which troubled me before I got through.  So home, about one or two o'clock in the morning,
my family at a great losse what was become of me. To supper, and to bed.  The Duke of Yorke
gone down to the fleete, but all suppose not with intent to stay there, as it is not fit, all
men conceive, he should.

