[23] This is not intended to convey any reflection upon human learning, but to exhibit the
contemptuous spirit of learned men, so generally manifested to the illiterate, but really learned
followers of the Lamb. They sometimes meet their match, even in worldly wit. Thus, when three
learned gentlemen from Oxford overtook a pious waggoner, they ironically saluted him as Father
Abraham, Father Isaac, and Father Jacob; he replied, Gentlemen, you are mistaken: I am neither
Abraham, Isaac, nor Jacob, but Saul, the son of Kish, who was sent to find his father's asses,
and so I have found them.--Ed.

[24] The word 'clergy' is omitted from all the editions published after Bunyan's death. These
words are calculated to fix upon the mind the necessity of a visitation from heaven, of personal
examination of the Scriptures, and of solemn, earnest, persevering prayer, without which no
clergyman can do a sinner good. But how inexpressibly terrible will be the misery of carnal
clergymen, who, by precept or example, have led their hearers to a false hope of heaven. How
will such souls gnash their teeth in bitter anguish, and trample their devoted souls to the
hottest hell!--Ed.

[25] Making an entertainment by stealth, privately indulging in wickedness.--Ed.

[26] Awful responsibility!! A heavy curse on the souls of those who labour to prevent private
judgment, guided simply by the Bible--who lead poor sinners to rely upon acts of uniformity,
liturgies, articles, or creeds, the groveling inventions of men; instead of relying wholly
on the revealed will of God, which alone is able to make man wise unto salvation.--Ed.

[27] The word 'not' is omitted from most of the editions published in Bunyan's life.--Ed.

[28] These times of tyrannizing oppression are fast passing away. It was difficult, a few years
ago, to hire a room in some of the villages even round London, for a Sunday school and lecture,
or to admit a missionary into a workhouse. A poor baby has been scornfully driven from the
font--the dead body of a dissenter has been refused Christian burial--the cries of poverty
and distress have been disregarded--from bitter sectarianism. The genial influence of Christianity
is fast driving these demoniac feelings to the owls and bats.--Ed.

[29] Anguish or embarrassment of mind, derived from the name of a most painful disease.--Ed.

[30] This is one of Bunyan's proverbs, which, however homely, is sure to make a lasting impression
on the mind. Sin breeds the scorpions which will torment the sinner, unless they tormented
the Saviour. O for greater hatred of sin!--Ed.

[31] From this paragraph to the end of the comment on verse 28, was placed by Bunyan, in his
first edition, as the first part of the general use and application.--Ed.

[32] A familiar phrase, expressive of embarrassment. 'There is no comfort in the house upon
a washing day.' Suds, in this sentence, would puzzle a foreigner. Johnson's dictionary interprets
it, 'A lixivium of soap and water!'--Ed.

[33] The word 'simple' is here used as it is by Solomon in the Proverbs--silly, unwise.--Ed

[34] Men armed with halberts or javelins; now only used at assizes in England, or by officers
attending meetings of magistrates in Scotland.--Ed.

[35] Modern editors have altered this to, 'did deal with him.'--Ed.

[36] Altered in the third edition to 'a great exceeding danger.'--Ed.

[37] Bunyan published this work before the Quakers were formed into a Society. Many of the
wildest enthusiasts called themselves Quakers. Barclay, in his Apology, very clearly defines
what the Society of Friends mean by, 'Christ within, the hope of glory.' 'It is a spiritual,
heavenly, and invisible principle, in which God, as Father, Son, and Spirit, dwells or reigns.'--Prop.
V. and VI.--Ed.

[38] This quotation, probably made from memory, is from the Genevan or Puritan version of the
Bible.--Ed.

[39] How favourable an alteration has been produced by permitting the free publication of the
Bible. In Bunyan's time, under the monopoly of church and state, they were full of typographical
errors, and at a high price. When eggs were four-a-penny, one hundred and sixty must have been
paid for an ordinary copy; while now a handsome one, with gilt edges, may be had for eighteen
or twenty. Thanks to those good men who brought about this wondrous change.--Ed.

[40] The improvement in the whole class of books used by children, since the Tract Society
commenced its operations, is almost incredible. None but antiquarians have seen the books which
Bunyan names, but they are as inferior to Who killed Cock Robin, as that is to Dr. Watt's Divine
Songs.--Ed.

[41] Such was the then state of society, fostered by the Book of Sports and Pastimes, authorized
by Charles I. to be used on Sunday, and by Rupert and his cavaliers with the civil war, notwithstanding
the restraints of the Commonwealth. They are very young, or dim-sighted, or badly read, who
do not now see a wonderful improvement in the state of public morals and religion.--Ed.

[42] These persecutions are fast disappearing. One of my near relatives was locked into a first
floor parlour in Whitechapel, without hat or shoes, to prevent his going to hear Mr. Whitefield;
but, at the risk of being turned out of doors by his parents, he escaped out of the window,
by clinging to the rain water-pipe, and enjoyed the public service at the Tabernacle.--Ed.

[43] For an admirable and deeply impressive account of these distinct books, see Bunyan on
The Resurrection of the Dead.--Ed.

[44] The idea prevails to a vast extent. The splendour, power, and intolerance of national
hierarchies is mistaken for the humble benignity of the Bible system of Christianity or personal
religion. Antichrist, tricked out in robes and gewgaws, is, by perverted minds, received as
Christ.--Ed.

[45] This is exemplified in Bunyan's experience, published by him in Grace Abounding. 'That
scripture also did tear and rend my soul (Isa 57:22).' Sec. 104. 'That scripture did seize
upon my soul (Heb 12:16,17).' Sec. 141.--Ed.

[46] This word was, by a typographical error, printed 'doctrine,' in an edition of 1707; this
error has been followed in all the after copies.--Ed.

[47] A very considerable portion of the use and application as found in the first edition,
was, in the second and subsequent ones, removed to the comment on verse 28; from the words,
'Now then, from what hath been said,' to the end of the comment on that verse. I should have
preferred Bunyan's first arrangement, but dared not alter what he had considered an improvement.--Ed.

[48] Of all men most miserable must be those clergymen and religious teachers, who, in the
great day, will say, 'Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name,' to whom the Lord will
profess, 'I never knew you, depart, ye cursed.'--Matt 7:21-23.--Ed.

[49] The Ranters were a sect of the wildest enthusiasts. It very soon became extinct. An exaggerated
account of their sentiments is to be found in Ross's view of all Religions.--Ed.

***

ONE THING IS NEEDFUL;

or,

SERIOUS MEDITATIONS UPON THE FOUR LAST THINGS: DEATH, JUDGMENT, HEAVEN, AND HELL

UNTO WHICH IS ADDED EBAL AND GERIZZIM, OR THE BLESSING AND THE CURSE,

by John Bunyan.

London: Printed for Nath. Ponder, at the Peacock in the Poultry, 1688.[1]

ADVERTISEMENT BY THE EDITOR.

According to Charles Doe, in that curious sheet called The Struggler for the Preservation of
Mr. John Bunyan's Labours, these poems were published about the year 1664, while the author
was suffering imprisonment for conscience sake, very probably in separate sheets or tracts,
to be sold by his wife or children, to aid in their humble maintenance. They were afterwards
united to form a neat little volume, 32 mo. The editor is the fortunate possessor of the third
edition, being the last that was printed during the author's lifetime, and with his latest
corrections. From this the present edition has been accurately reprinted. The three tracts
are distinct as to pages; a strong indication that they were originally separate little volumes.
A copy of the fourth edition of this extremely rare book, without date, and somewhat larger
in size, is in the British Museum, in which the pages are continued throughout the volume.

These poems are upon subjects the most solemn and affecting to all mankind, and, like all Bunyan's
other works, were evidently written, not for display, but to impress upon the heart those searching
realities upon which depend our everlasting destiny. Die we must; yes, reader, you and I must
follow our fathers to the unseen world. Heaven forbid that we should be such mad fools, as
to make no provision for the journey; no inquiries about our prospects in that eternity into
which we must so soon enter. True it is, that unless Heaven stops us in our mad career, we
shall plunge into irretrievable ruin.

In the first of these poems, many of the minute circumstances attendant on death are pressed
upon the memory. Very soon, as Bunyan awfully expresses the though, we must look death in the
face, and 'drink with him.' Soon some kind friend or relative will close our eyelids, and shut
up our glassy eyes for ever; tie up the fallen jaw, and prepare the corrupting body for its
long, but not final resting-place. Our hour-glass is fast ebbing out; time stands ready with
his scythe to cut us down; the grave yawns to receive us. 'Man dieth and wasteth away; yea,
man giveth up the ghost, and where is he' (Job 14:10). The answer is ready, sure, certain--he
goes to the judgment of the great day. There every thought that has passed over his mind, while
on earth, will be manifested and scrutinized; every action, every sin, and every supposed good
work, however private, will then be published. It is an awful thought. Thousands of works which
are thought good will be weighed in the unerring balances of truth, will be found wanting,
and proved to be bad, not arising from evangelical motives; while all our thoughts, words,
and actions will appear in their real colours tainted by sin. Those only who are clothed in
the Redeemer's righteousness, and cleansed by his purifying, sanctifying sufferings, can stand
accepted, and will receive the invitation, Come, ye blessed, inherit the kingdom of your father,
and your God, by adoption into his family; while an innumerable multitude will be hurried away
by the voice of the judge, Go, ye cursed, into everlasting torment. Solemn consideration. Reader,
have you fled for refuge to the hope set before you in the gospel? Have you felt the alarm
in your soul under a sense of sin and judgment? Were you dead, and are you made alive? O, then,
while you bless the Saviour for such unspeakable mercies, seek with all diligence, as life
is prolonged, to extend the blessing to others. There is no work nor device in the grave, whither
we are all hastening, that can benefit mortals. The great gulf will be fixed, and our state
be finally decided for eternity. O, then, if you have not yet attained that good hope of heavenly
felicity, sure and stedfast--hasten--yes,

'Hasten, O sinner, to be blest And stay not for the morrow's sun; For fear the curse should
thee arrest Before the morrow be begun.'

GEO. OFFOR.

1. These lines I at this time present To all that will them heed, Wherein I show to what intent
God saith, Convert[2] with speed. 2. For these four things come on apace, Which we should know
full well, Both death and judgment, and, in place Next to them, heaven and hell. 3. For doubtless
man was never born For this life and no more: No, in the resurrection morn They must have weal
or woe. 4. Can any think that God should take That pains, to form a man So like himself, only
to make Him here a moment stand? 5. Or that he should make such ado, By justice, and by grace;
By prophets and apostles too, That men might see his face? 6. Or that the promise he hath made,
Also the threatenings great, Should in a moment end and fade? O! no, this is a cheat. 7. Besides,
who is so mad, or worse, To think that Christ should come From glory, to be made a curse, And
that in sinners' room, 8. If nothing should by us be had When we are gone from hence, But vanities,
while here? O mad And foolish confidence. 9. Again, shall God, who is the truth, Say there
is heaven and hell And shall men play that trick of youth To say, But who can tell? 10. Shall
he that keeps his promise sure In things both low and small, Yet break it like a man impure,
In matters great'st of all? 11. O, let all tremble at that thought, That puts on God the lie,
That saith men shall turn unto nought When they be sick and die. 12. Alas, death is but as
the door Through which all men do pass, To that which they for evermore Shall have by wrath
or grace. 13. Let all therefore that read my lines, Apply them to the heart: Yea, let them
read, and turn betimes, And get the better part. 14. Mind therefore what I treat on here, Yea,
mind and weigh it well; 'Tis death and judgment, and a clear Discourse of heaven and hell.

OF DEATH

1. Death, as a king rampant and stout The world he dare engage; He conquers all, yea, and doth
rout The great, strong, wise, and sage. 2. No king so great, nor prince so strong, But death
can make to yield, Yea, bind and lay them all along, And make them quit the field. 3. Where
are the victors of the world, With all their men of might? Those that together kingdoms hurl'd,
By death are put to flight. 4. How feeble is the strongest hand, When death begins to gripe!
The giant now leaves off to stand, Much less withstand and fight. 5. The man that hath a lion's
face Must here give place and bend, Yea, though his bones were bars of brass, 'Tis vain here
to contend. 6. Submit he must to feeble ones, To worms who will enclose His skin and flesh,
sinews and bones, And will thereof dispose 7. Among themselves, as merchants do The prizes
they have got; Or as the soldiers give unto Each man the share and lot, 8. Which they by dint
of sword have won, From their most daring foe; While he lies by as still as stone, Not knowing
what they do. 9. Beauty death turns to rottenness, And youth to wrinkled face; The witty he
brings to distress, And wantons to disgrace. 10. The wild he tames, and spoils the mirth Of
all that wanton are, He takes the worldling from his worth, And poor man from his care. 11.
Death favours none, he lays at all, Of all sorts and degree; Both old and young, both great
and small, Rich, poor, and bound, and free. 12. No fawning words will flatter him, Nor threat'nings
make him start; He favours none for worth or kin, All must taste of his dart. 13. What shall
I say? the graves declare That death shall conquer all; There lie the skulls, dust, bones,
and there The mighty daily fall. 14. The very looks of death are grim  And ghastly to behold;
Yea, though but in a dead man's skin, When he is gone and cold. 15. How 'fraid are some of
dead men's beds, And others of their bones; They neither care to see their heads, Nor yet to
hear their groans. 16. Now all these things are but the shade And badges of his coat;[3] The
glass that runs, the scythe and spade, Though weapons more remote: 17. Yet such as make poor
mortals shrink And fear, when they are told, These things are signs that they must drink With
death; O then how cold. 18. It strikes them to the heart! how do They study it to shun! Indeed
who can bear up, and who Can from these shakings run? 19. But how much more then when he comes
To grapple with thy heart; To bind with thread thy toes and thumbs,[4] And fetch thee in his
cart? 20. Then will he cut thy silver cord, And break thy golden bowl; Yea, break that pitcher
which the Lord Made cabin for thy soul. 21. Thine eyes, that now are quick of sight, Shall
then no way espy How to escape this doleful plight, For death will make thee die. 22. Those
legs that now can nimbly run, Shall then with faintness fail To take one step, death's dart
to shun, When he doth thee assail. 23. That tongue that now can boast and brag Shall then by
death be tied So fast, as not to speak or wag, Though death lies by thy side. 24. Thou that
didst once incline thine ear Unto the song and tale, Shall only now death's message hear, While
he, with face most pale, 25. Doth reason with thee how thy days Hath hitherto been spent; And
what have been thy deeds and ways, Since God thee time hath lent. 26. Then will he so begin
to tear Thy body from thy soul, And both from life, if now thy care Be not on grace to roll.
27. Death puts on things another face Than we in health do see: Sin, Satan, hell, death, life
and grace Now great and weighty be. 28. Yea, now the sick man's eye is set Upon a world to
come: He also knows too without let[5] That there must be his home. 29. Either in joy, in bliss
and light, Or sorrow, woe, and grief; Either with Christ and saints in white, Or fiends, without
relief. 30. But, O! the sad estate that then They will be in that die Both void of grace and
life! poor men! How will they fear and cry. 31. Ha! live I may not, though I would For life
give more than all; And die I dare not, though I should The world gain by my fall. 32. No,
here he must no longer stay, He feels his life run out, His night is come, also the day That
makes him fear and doubt. 33. He feels his very vitals die, All waxeth pale and wan; Nay, worse,
he fears to misery He shortly must be gone. 34. Death doth already strike his heart With his
most fearful sting Of guilt, which makes his conscience start, And quake at every thing. 35.
Yea, as his body doth decay By a contagious grief, So his poor soul doth faint away Without
hope or relief. 36. Thus while the man is in this scare, Death doth still at him lay; Live,
die, sink, swim, fall foul or fair,[6]  Death still holds on his way. 37. Still pulling of
him from his place, Full sore against his mind; Death like a sprite stares in his face, And
doth with links him bind. 38. And carries him into his den, In darkness there to lie, Among
the swarms of wicked men In grief eternally. 39. For only he that God doth fear Will now be
counted wise: Yea, he that feareth him while here, He only wins the prize. 40. 'Tis he that
shall by angels be  Attended to that bliss That angels have; for he, O he, Of glory shall not
miss. 41. Those weapons and those instruments Of death, that others fright: Those dreadful
fears and discontents That brings on some that night. 42. That never more shall have a day,
Brings this man to that rest Which none can win but only they Whom God hath called and blest
43. With the first fruits of saving grace, With faith, hope, love, and fear Him to offend;
this man his face In visions high and clear, 44. Shall in that light which no eye can Approach
unto, behold The rays and beams of glory, and Find there his name enroll'd, 45. Among those
glittering starts of light That Christ still holdeth fast In his right hand with all his might,
Until that danger's past, 46. That shakes the world, and most hath dropt Into grief and distress,
O blessed then is he that's wrapt In Christ his righteousness. 47. This is the man death cannot
kill, For he hath put on arms; Him sin nor Satan hath not skill To hurt with all their charms.
48. A helmet on his head doth stand, A breastplate on his heart: A shield also is in his hand,
That blunteth every dart. 49. Truth girds him round the reins, also His sword is on his thigh;
His feet in shoes of peace do go The ways of purity. 50. His heart it groaneth to the Lord,
Who hears him at his call, And doth him help and strength afford, Wherewith he conquers all.
51. Thus fortified, he keeps the field While death is gone and fled;  And then lies down upon
his shield Till Christ doth raise the dead.

OF JUDGMENT.

1. As 'tis appointed men should die, So judgment is the next That meets them most assuredly;
For so saith holy text. 2. Wherefore of judgment I shall now Inform you what I may, That you
may see what 'tis, and how 'Twill be with men that day. 3. This world it hath a time to stand,
Which time when ended, then Will issue judgment out of hand Upon all sorts of men. 4. The Judge
we find, in God's record, The Son of man, for he By God's appointment is made Lord And Judge
of all that be. 5. Wherefore this Son of man shall come At last to count with all, And unto
them shall give just doom, Whether they stand or fall. 6. Behold ye now the majesty And state
that shall attend This Lord, this Judge, and Justice high When he doth now descend. 7. He comes
with head as white as snow, With eyes like flames of fire; In justice clad from top to toe,
Most glorious in attire. 8. His face is filled with gravity; His tongue is like a sword; His
presence awes both stout and high, The world shakes at his word. 9. He comes in flaming fire,
and With angels clear and bright, Each with a trumpet in his hand, Clothed in shining white.
10. The trump of God sounds in the air, The dead do hear his voice; The living too run here
and there, Who made not him their choice. 11. Thus to his place he doth repair, Appointed for
his throne, Where he will sit to judge, and where He'll count with every one. 12. Angels attending
on his hand By thousands on a row; Yea, thousand thousands by him stand, And at his beck do
go. 13. Thus being set, the books do ope In which all crimes are writ. All virtues, too, of
faith and hope, Of love; and every whit 14. Of all that man hath done or said, Or did intend
to do; Whether they sinn'd, or were afraid Evil to come into. 15. Before this bar each sinner
now In person must appear; Under his judgment there to bow With trembling and with fear: 16.
Within whose breast a witness then Will certainly arise, That to each charge will say Amen,
While they seek and devise 17. To shun the sentence which the Lord Against them then will read,
Out of the books of God's record, With majesty and dread. 18. But every heart shall opened
be Before this judge most high; Yea, every thought to judgment he Will bring assuredly. 19.
And every word and action, too, He there will manifest; Yea, all that ever thou didst do, Or
keep within thy breast, 20. Shall then be seen and laid before The world, that then will stand
To see thy judge open ev'ry sore, And all thy evils scann'd. 21. Weighing each sin and wickedness
With so much equity, Proportioning of thy distress And woful misery. 22. With so much justice,
doing right, That thou thyself shalt say, My sins have brought me to this plight, I threw myself
away. 23. Into that gulph my sins have brought Me justly to possess, For which I blame not
Christ, I wrought It out by wickedness. 24. But O! how willingly would these That thus in judgment
be, If that they might have help or ease, Unto the mountains flee. 25. They would rejoice if
that they might But underneath them creep, To hide them from revenging right, For fear of which
they weep. 26. But all in vain, the mountains then Will all be fled and gone; No shelter will
be found for men That now are left alone. 27. For succour they did not regard When Christ by
grace did call To them, therefore they are not heard, No mountains on them fall. 28. Before
this Judge no one shall shroud Himself, under pretence Of knowledge, which hath made him proud,
Nor seeming penitence. 29. No high profession here can stand, Unless sincerity Hath been therewith
commixed, and Brought forth simplicity.[7]  30. No mask nor vizor here can hide The heart that
rotten is; All cloaks now must be laid aside, No sinner must have bliss. 31. Though most approve
of thee, and count Thee upright in thy heart; Yea, though preferred and made surmount Most
men to act thy part, 32. In treading where the godly trod, As to an outward show; Yet this
hold still, the grace of God Takes hold on but a few, 33. So as to make them truly such As
then shall stand before This Judge with gladness; this is much Yet true for evermore. 34. The
tree of life this paradise Doth always beautify, 'Cause of our health it is the rise And perpetuity.
35. Here stands the golden throne of grace From out of which do run Those crystal streams that
make this place Far brighter than the sun. 36. Here stands mount Zion with her king. Jerusalem
above, That holy and delightful thing, So beautified with love. 37. That, as a mother succours
those Which of her body be, So she far more, all such as close In with her Lord; and she 38.
Her grace, her everlasting doors Will open wide unto Them all, with welcome, welcome, poor,
Rich, bond, free, high and low, 39. Unto the kingdom which our Lord Appointed hath for all
That hath his name and word ador'd; Because he did them call 40. Unto that work, which also
they Sincerely did fulfil, Not shunning always to obey His gracious holy will. 41. Besides,
this much doth beautify This goodly paradise, That from all quarters, constantly, Whole thousands
as the price 42. Of precious blood, do here arrive; As safe escaping all, Sin, hell, and satan
did contrive To bring them into thrall. 43. Each telling his deliverance I' th' open face of
heaven; Still calling to remembrance How fiercely they were driven 44. By deadly foe, who did
pursue As swift as eagles fly; Which if thou have not, down thou must With those that then
shall die The second death, and be accurs'd Of God. For certainly, 45. The truth of grace shall
only here Without a blush be bold To stand, whilst others quake and fear, And dare not once
behold. 46. That heart that here was right for God Shall there be comforted; But those that
evil ways have trod, Shall then hang down the head. 47. As sore confounded with the guilt That
now upon them lies,  Because they did delight in filth And beastly vanities. 48. Or else because
they did deceive With hypocritical Disguises, their own souls, and leave Or shun that best
of all 49. Approved word of righteousness, They were invited to Embrace, therefore they no
access Now to him have, but woe. 50. For every one must now receive According to their ways;
They that unto the Lord did cleave, The everlasting joys. 51. Those that did die in wickedness,
To execution sent, There still to grapple with distress, Which nothing can prevent. 52. Of
which two states I next shall write, Wherefore I pray give ear, And to them bend with all our
might Your heart with filial fear.

OF HEAVEN.

1. Heaven is a place, also a state, It doth all things excel, No man can fully it relate, Nor
of its glory tell. 2. God made it for his residence, To sit on as a throne, Which shows to
us the excellence Whereby it may be known. 3. Doubtless the fabric that was built For this
so great a king, Must needs surprise thee, if thou wilt But duly mind the thing. 4. If all
that build do build to suit The glory of their state, What orator, though most acute, Can fully
heaven relate? 5. If palaces that princes build, Which yet are made of clay, Do so amaze when
much beheld, Of heaven what shall we say? 6. It is the high and holy place; No moth can there
annoy, Nor make to fade that goodly grace That saints shall there enjoy. 7. Mansions for glory
and for rest Do there prepared stand; Buildings eternal for the blest Are there provided, and
8. The glory and the comeliness By deepest thought none may With heart or mouth fully express,
Nor can before that day. 9. These heav'ns we see, be as a scroll, Or garment folded up, Before
they do together roll, And we call'd in to sup. 10. There with the king, the bridegroom, and
By him are led into His palace chambers, there to stand With his prospect to our view. 11.
And taste and smell, and be inflam'd, And ravished to see The buildings he hath for us fram'd,
How full of heaven they be. 12. Its state also is marvellous, For beauty to behold; All goodness
there is plenteous, And better far than gold. 13. Adorn'd with grace and righteousness, While
fragrant scents of love O'erflow with everlasting bliss, All that do dwell above. 14. The heavenly
majesty, whose face Doth far exceed the sun, Will there cast forth its rays of grace After
this world is done. 15. Which rays and beams will so possess All things that there shall dwell,
With so much glory, light, and bliss, That none can think or tell. 16. That wisdom which doth
order all Shall there be fully shown; That strength that bears the world there shall By every
one be known. 17. That holiness and sanctity Which doth all thought surpass, Shall there in
present purity Outshine the crystal glass. 18. The beauty and the comeliness Of this Almighty
shall Make amiable with lasting bliss Those he thereto shall call. 19. The presence of this
God will be Eternal life in all, And health and gladness, while we see Thy face, O immortal!
20. Here will the Lord make clear and plain How sweetly did agree His attributes, when Christ
was slain Our Saviour to be. 21. How wisdom did find out the way, How strength did make him
stand, How holiness did bear the sway, And answer just demand. 22. How all these attributes
did bend Themselves to work our life, Through the Christ whom God did send To save us by his
might. 23. All this will sparkle in our eye Within the holy place, And greatly raise our melody,
And flow our hearts with grace. 24. The largest thought that can arise Within the widest heart
Shall then be filled with surprize, And pleas'd in every part. 25. All mysteries shall here
be seen, And every knot, unty'd; Electing love, that hid hath been, Shall shine on every side.
26. The God of glory here will be The life of every one; Whose goodly attributes shall we Possess
them as our own. 27. By wisdom we all things shall know, By light all things shall see, By
strength, too, all things we shall do, When we in glory be. 28. The Holy Lamb of God, also,
Who for our sakes did die, The holy ones of God shall know, And that most perfectly. 29. Those
small and short discoveries  That we have of him here, Will there be seen with open eyes, In
visions full and clear. 30. Those many thousand acts of grace That here we feel and find, Shall
there be real with open face Upon his heart most kind. 31. There he will show us how he was
Our prophet, priest, and king; And how he did maintain our cause, And us to glory bring. 32.
There we shall see how he was touch'd With all our grief and pain (As in his word he hath avouch'd),
When we with him shall reign; 33. He'll show us, also, how he did Maintain our faith and love,
And why his face sometimes he hid From us, who are his dove; 34. These tempting times that
here we have, We there shall see were good; Also that hidden strength he gave, The purchase
of his blood. 35. That he should stand for us before  His Father, thus we read. But then shall
see, and shall adore Him for his gracious deed. 36. Though we are vile, he without shame Before
the angels all Lays out his strength, his worth, and name, For us, who are in thrall. 37. This
is he who was mock'd and beat, Spit on, and crown'd with thorns; Who for us had a bloody sweat,
Whose heart was broke with scorns. 38. 'Tis he who stands so much our friend, As shortly we
shall see, With open face, world without end, And in his presence be. 39. That head that once
was crown'd with thorns, Shall now with glory shine; That heart that broken was with scorns,
Shall flow with life divine; 40. That man that here met with disgrace, We there shall see so
bright; That angels can't behold his face For its exceeding light. 41. What gladness will possess
our heart When we shall see these things! What light and life, in every part, Will rise like
lasting springs! 42. O blessed face and holy grace, When shall we see this day? Lord, fetch
us to this goodly place We humbly do thee pray. 43. Next to this Lamb we shall behold All saints,
both more and less,  With whit'ned robes in glory roll'd, 'Cause him they did confess. 44.
Each walking in his righteousness With shining crowns of gold, Triumphing still in heav'nly
bliss, Amazing to behold. 45. Each person for his majesty Doth represent a king; Yea, angel-like
for dignity, And seraphims that sing. 46. Each motion of their mind, and so Each twinkling
of their eye; Each word they speak, and step they go, It is in purity. 47. Immortal are they
every one, Wrapt up in health and light, Mortality from them is gone, Weakness is turn'd to
might. 48. The stars are not so clear as they, They equalize the sun; Their glory shines to
perfect day, Which day will ne'er be done. 49. No sorrow can them now annoy, Nor weakness,
grief or pain; No faintness can abate their joy, They now in life do reign. 50. They shall
not there, as here, be vex'd With Satan, men, or sin; Nor with their wicked hearts perplex'd,
The heavens have cop'd[8] them in. 51. Thus, as they shine in their estate, So, too, in their
degree; Which is most goodly to relate, And ravishing to see. 52. The majesty whom they adore,
Doth them in wisdom place Upon the thrones, and that before The angels, to their grace. 53.
The saints of the Old Testament, Full right to their degree; Likewise the New, in excellent
Magnificency be. 54. Each one his badge of glory wears, According to his place; According as
was his affairs Here, in the time of grace. 55. Some on the right hand of the Lamb, Likewise
some on the left, With robes and golden chains do stand Most grave, most sage, and deft.[9]
56. The martyr here is known from him Who peaceably did die, Both by the place he sitteth in,
And by his dignity. 57. Each father, saint, and prophet shall, According to his worth, Enjoy
the honour of his call, And plainly hold it forth. 58. Those bodies which sometimes were torn,
And bones that broken were For God's word; he doth now adorn With health and glory fair. 59.
Thus, when in heav'nly harmony These blessed saints appear, Adorn'd with grace and majesty,
What gladness will be there! 60. The light, and grace, and countenance, The least of these
shall have, Will so with terror them advance, And make their face so grave, 61. That at them
all the world will shake, When they lift up their head; Princes and kings will at them quake,
And fall before them dead. 62. This shall we see, thus shall we be, O would the day were come,
Lord Jesus take us up to thee, To this desired home. 63. Angels also we shall behold, When
we on high ascend, Each shining like to men of gold, And on the Lord attend. 64. These goodly
creatures, full of grace, Shall stand about the throne, Each one with lightning in his face,
And shall to us be known. 65. These cherubims with one accord Shall cry continually, Ah, holy,
holy, holy, Lord, And heavenly majesty. 66. These will us in their arms embrace, And welcome
us to rest, And joy to see us clad with grace, And of the heavens possess'd. 67. This we shall
hear, this we shall see, While raptures take us up, When we with blessed Jesus be, And at his
table sup. 68. Oh shining angels! what, must we  With you lift up our voice? We must; and with
you ever be, And with you must rejoice. 69. 70.