Objection 1: It would seem that the human will is moved by a heavenly body. For all various
and multiform movements are reduced, as to their cause, to a uniform movement which is that
of the heavens, as is proved in Phys.  viii, 9. But human movements are various and multiform,
since they begin to be, whereas previously they were not. Therefore they are reduced, as to
their cause, to the movement of the heavens, which is uniform according to its nature.

Obj. Weel, there'Anna the lower thing that got the grip on the Christ-s. She but to have go in ram-the
an'clear forrit; for stam bows of her are stern under, and the back-side of her is aften at hie-water
o'neaps. But, man! the dunt that she cam doon wi'when she struck!
Therefore the heavens move the human will.

Obj. 3: Further, by observing the heavenly bodies astrologers foretell the truth about future
human acts, which are caused by the will. But this would not be so, if the heavenly bodies
could not move man's will. Therefore the human will is moved by a heavenly body.

On the contrary, Damascene says (De Fide Orth. ii, 7) that "the heavenly bodies are not the
causes of our acts." But they would be, if the will, which is the principle of human acts,
were moved by the heavenly bodies. Therefore the will is not moved by the heavenly bodies.

I answer that, It is evident that the will can be moved by the heavenly bodies in the same
way as it is moved by its object; that is to say, in so far as exterior bodies, which move
the will, through being offered to the senses, and also the organs themselves of the sensitive
powers, are subject to the movements of the heavenly bodies.

But some have maintained that heavenly bodies have an influence on the human will, in the same
way as some exterior agent moves the will, as to the exercise of its act. But this is impossible.
For the "will," as stated in De Anima iii, 9, "is in the reason." Now the reason is a power
of the soul, not bound to a bodily organ: wherefore it follows that the will is a power absolutely
incorporeal and immaterial. But it is evident that no body can act on what is incorporeal,
but rather the reverse: because things incorporeal and immaterial have a power more formal
and more universal than any corporeal things whatever. Therefore it is impossible for a heavenly
body to act directly on the intellect or will. For this reason Aristotle (De Anima iii, 3)
ascribed to those who held that intellect differs not from sense, the theory that "such is
the will of men, as is the day which the father of men and of gods bring on" [*Odyssey xviii.
135] (referring to Jupiter, by whom they understand the entire heavens). For all the sensitive
powers, since they are acts of bodily organs, can be moved accidentally, by the heavenly bodies,
i.e. through those bodies being moved, whose acts they are.

But since it has been stated (A. 2) that the intellectual appetite is moved, in a fashion,
by the sensitive appetite, the movements of the heavenly bodies have an indirect bearing on
the will; in so far as the will happens to be moved by the passions of the sensitive appetite.

Reply Obj. 1: The multiform movements of the human will are reduced to some uniform cause,
which, however, is above the intellect and will. This can be said, not of any body, but of
some superior immaterial substance. Therefore there is no need for the movement of the will
to be referred to the movement of the heavens, as to its cause.

Reply Obj. 2: The movements of the human body are reduced, as to their cause, to the movement
of a heavenly body, in so far as the disposition suitable to a particular movement, is somewhat
due to the influence of heavenly bodies; also, in so far as the sensitive appetite is stirred
by the influence of heavenly bodies; and again, in so far as exterior bodies are moved in accordance
with the movement of heavenly bodies, at whose presence, the will begins to will or not to
will something; for instance, when the body is chilled, we begin to wish to make the fire.
But this movement of the will is on the part of the object offered from without: not on the
part of an inward instigation.

Reply Obj. 3: As stated above (Cf. I, Q. 84, AA. 6, 7), the sensitive appetite is the act of
a bodily organ. Wherefore there is no reason why man should not be prone to anger or concupiscence,
or some like passion, by reason of the influence of heavenly bodies, just as by reason of his
natural complexion. But the majority of men are led by the passions, which the wise alone resist.
Consequently, in the majority of cases predictions about human acts, gathered from the observation
of heavenly bodies, are fulfilled. Nevertheless, as Ptolemy says (Centiloquium v), "the wise
man governs the stars"; which is a though to say that by resisting his passions, he opposes
his will, which is free and nowise subject to the movement of the heavens, to such like effects
of the heavenly bodies.

Or, as Augustine says (Gen. ad lit. ii, 15): "We must confess that when the truth is foretold
by astrologers, this is due to some most hidden inspiration, to which the human mind is subject
without knowing it. And since this is done in order to deceive man, it must be the work of
the lying spirits."

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 9, Art. 6]

Whether the Will Is Moved by God Alone, As Exterior Principle?

Objection 1: It would seem that the will is not moved by God alone as exterior principle. For
it is natural that the inferior be moved by its superior: thus the lower bodies are moved by
the heavenly bodies. But there is something which is higher than the will of man and below
God, namely, the angel. Therefore man's will can be moved by an angel also, as exterior principle.

Obj. 2: Further, the act of the will follows the act of the intellect. But man's intellect
is reduced to act, not by God alone, but also by the angel who enlightens it, as Dionysius
says (Coel. Hier. iv). For the same reason, therefore, the will also is moved by an angel.

Obj. 3: Further, God is not the cause of other than good things, according to Gen. 1:31: "God
saw all the things that He had made, and they were very good." If, therefore man's will were
moved by God alone, it would never be moved to evil: and yet it is the will whereby "we sin
and whereby we do right," as Augustine says (Retract. i, 9).

On the contrary, It is written (Phil. 2:13): "It is God Who worketh in us" [Vulg.'you'] "both
to will and to accomplish."

I answer that, The movement of the will is from within, as also is the movement of nature.
Now although it is possible for something to move a natural thing, without being the cause
of the thing moved, yet that alone, which is in some way the cause of a thing's nature, can
cause a natural movement in that thing. For a stone is moved upwards by a man, who is not the
cause of the stone's nature, but this movement is not natural to the stone; but the natural
movement of the stone is caused by no other than the cause of its nature. Wherefore it is said
in Phys.  vii, 4, that the generator moves locally heavy and light things. Accordingly man
endowed with a will is sometimes moved by something that is not his cause; but that his voluntary
movement be from an exterior principle that is not the cause of his will, is impossible.

