The flywheel is a circular piece of brass 1 inch in diameter. Its center is drilled out and
it is soldered to the crank as illustrated in Fig. 54. Two other holes 1/8 inch in diameter
are drilled in the flywheel as illustrated, and two small brass pins are cut out from 1/8-inch
brass rod and forced into these holes and then soldered. These provide a method of driving
the propeller-shaft that is shown very clearly at Fig. 57.

The steam feed-pipe that runs from the boiler to the engine can be of small copper tubing.
It may be necessary to mount the engine on a small block, as shown in Fig. 53. After the steam
in the boiler has reached a sufficient pressure the engine crank should be given a couple of
twists in order to start it. Before operating the engine a little lubricating oil should be
run into the cylinder through the inlet or exhaust ports. The cylinder should always be kept
well lubricated. The contacting faces of the cylinder blocks should also be kept lubricated.

Caution. Always keep water in the boiler. Never permit it to run dry, as this would cause a
boiler explosion. When the engine is started and cannot be made to run, take the burner from
under the boiler so that steam will cease to be generated. With the safety-valve the model
boat builder need have little fear of an explosion. Nevertheless the foregoing directions should
be carefully adhered to.

CHAPTER V

AN ELECTRIC LAUNCH

THE little electric launch to be described is of very simple construction, and when finished
it will provide the builder with a very shipshape little model from which he will be able to
derive a good deal of pleasure. It has a speed of from 2-1/2 to 3 miles an hour when equipped
with dry batteries or storage batteries. The hull is of the Sharpie type, and this offers very
little trouble in cutting out and assembling.

The general appearance of the boat and hull will be gathered from the drawings. The pieces
necessary to assemble the hull are shown in Fig. 58. Only five pieces are necessary: two side
pieces, a stern piece, a bow piece, and a bottom piece. The length of the boat over all is
40 inches with a 7-inch beam. The widest part of the boat is 1 foot 10 inches from the bow.

After the pieces that form the hull are cut they are thoroughly sandpapered to produce a smooth
surface. The heavy imperfections in the wood can be taken out with coarse paper, and the finishing
can be done with a finer paper. It is understood that sandpapering should always be done with
the grain, never across the grain. The sides of the boat are cut about 1/4 inch thick, but
they are planed thinner in places where the bend is most pronounced. The side pieces are 2-3/4
inches deep at the stern and 2-1/4 inches at the stern. There is a gradual curve from the bow
to the stern, which is more marked toward the head.

The stern piece is thicker than the side pieces, being made of 1/2-inch wood. It is cut to
the shape shown at Fig. 58, and beveled along the bottom edge to enable it to be fixed on the
slant. The bow piece is a triangle 2-3/4 inches in length.

After the parts are thoroughly finished with sandpaper the stern piece is fixed in position.
In making all the joints on the boat the builder should see that plenty of fairly thick paint
is run in while the joint is being screwed up. This will help greatly in making the boat water-tight.
Plenty of 3/4-inch brass wood-screws are used in assembling the hull. All the holes for the
wood-screws should be countersunk so that the heads will come flush with the surface of the
hull. Now one of the sides should be screwed to the stern piece, at the same time bending the
bottom and side to meet. This is done gradually, inch by inch, and screws are put in place
at equal distances. When the bow is reached, the side piece is beveled to fit the bow piece,
which should already have been screwed into place. The other side of the boat is treated in
a similar manner, and the young worker should take care to keep the side and bow piece perfectly
square and upright. This may sound easy on paper, but it will be found that a good deal of
care must be exercised to produce this result.

After the hull has been assembled it is given a good coat of paint inside and out. When the
first coat is dry the holes left by the screw-heads are carefully puttied over, and the hull
is given a second coat of paint. This procedure will produce a perfectly water-tight hull.

The stern tube is 3/8 inch, outside diameter. A hole is bored in the bottom of the boat to
receive the stern tube. This job must be done cautiously; otherwise the bottom of the boat
may be ruined. It is best to screw a substantial block to the inside of the boat. This block
should be cut to fit the bottom and will act as a support for drilling. It will also help greatly
to make a water-tight joint around the tube. The distance from the point where the stern tube
passes through the bottom to the stern should be about 12-1/2 inches. The stern tube should
be mounted as nearly parallel with the bottom as possible, since on this depends the speed
of the boat. As the angle of the propeller-shaft increases, the speed of the boat will decrease.
In drilling the hole the boat-builder should be careful to keep the drill running along the
central line of the boat.

As before mentioned, the stern tube is a piece of brass tubing 3/8 inch in diameter and 8 inches
long. It is filed square at both ends, and a brass plug is fastened with solder in each end.
The tube is then filled with melted vaseline, which is allowed to cool. The hole in the hull
around the tube is then well smeared with thick paint. When this is done, a layer of red lead
or putty is placed around the joint both on the inside and the outside of the boat.

While the putty is drying the spray-hood or turtle-deck can be made. This is bent to shape
from a piece of tinplate and extends half way down the boat. When the turtle-deck is finished,
it is best to lay it aside, before finally fastening it in place, until the entire boat is
completed.

The wooden part of the deck is made of 1/8-inch wood and scribed with a sharp knife to represent
planking. This method of producing planking was described in detail in Chapter II.

Toward the stern of the boat and just behind the motor a hatchway is fitted to give access
to the batteries and starting switch.

The finished Sharpie hull without its driving batteries or motor should weigh about 1 pound
3 ounces. The hull being finished, let us consider the electric propelling equipment.

A 1/8-inch cold-rolled steel driving or propeller-shaft is used. The shaft is 13 inches long
and a gear-wheel 1 inch in diameter is fixed to one end of this shaft. This gear-wheel meshes
with a brass pinion on the motor-shaft. This forms a 3-1/2 to 1 reduction gear, which produces
a greatly increased speed of the boat. The other end of the propeller-shaft rests in the skeg
bearing. In this present case this consists of a tube about 1/2 inch long, which is made for
a revolving fit on the propeller-shaft and supported by a sheet-metal bracket. This is shown
in Fig. 63. The end of the propeller also revolves adjacent to the bearing in the skeg.

The propeller is a three-blade affair with a diameter of 2-1/4 inches. It is attached to the
propeller-shaft with a set-screw. The motor is a very simple type obtainable in the open market.
It is similar to one shown in Fig. 41. As before mentioned, either dry or storage batteries
may be used as a source of current. The writer strongly advises the use of storage batteries
if possible. The initial cost of these batteries is greater than that for dry batteries; but,
on the other hand, the small storage battery can be charged repeatedly and will outlast many
dry batteries. If the boat is used much the storage battery will probably be the more economical
of the two.

The steering gear of the boat is very simple. The rudder works in a bearing that is screwed
to the stern piece. The end of the rudder-shaft is tapped, and a brass screw is used to clamp
it in position after setting it with the fingers. The rudder-shaft is a 3/4-inch brass rod.
The lower end of this rod is slit with a hacksaw and the rudder is placed in this. Solder is
then flowed along the joint.

Of course, the builder may paint his boat whatever color he may select; but a maroon hull with
a white-enameled spray-hood or turtle-deck makes a very pleasing combination. Fig. 60 shows
a rough plan of the general arrangement of the power machinery. Figs. 61, 62 and 63 will do
much to give the reader a clear idea of the method of construction which could not be gained
by reading a description.

The general appearance of the boat can be improved materially in many ways. For instance, a
little stack or ventilator may be added to the turtle-deck, and a little flag-stick carrying
a tiny flag may be placed on the bow and on the stern.

The motor current should be turned on only when necessary, for dry-cells deteriorate rapidly
when in use, and small storage batteries quickly lose their charge, although they will last
much longer than dry-cells and give much better service.

CHAPTER VI

A STEAM LAUNCH

THE steam launch Nancy Lee is an attractive little craft when finished and it is capable of
attaining considerable speed. It is really designed after the cruising type of motor-boats.
This type of boat is particularly adaptable for simple model-making, owing to the elimination
of awkward fittings. The power machinery is of very simple construction and presents no real
difficulty.

The following materials are necessary to construct the Nancy Lee:

          Large wood block for hull.
          Thin white pine for deck, etc.
          Sheet-metal tube, rod and wire for the boiler, engine, etc.
          Lamp-wick, paint, screws, and brads
          Miscellaneous fittings

The actual expense necessary to construct the boat is very small.

Having obtained the block for the hull, you are ready to start work. The hull, when planed
on all sides, should be 30 inches long, 6-1/2 inches wide, and 3-3/4 inches deep. A center
line is drawn down the length of the hull, and five cross-section lines are drawn at right
angles to the center line 5 inches apart. On these lines the builder should mark off the greatest
lengths of the boat, taking the dimensions from the half-breadth drawing shown in Fig. 64.
It will be noted that the deck is wider than the L. W. L. forward and narrower than the L.
W. L. at the stern. The block should be cut to the widest line on the half-breadth part.

The half-widths in Fig. 64 are drawn each side of the center line on the block. The block will
be cut out to this line and planed up as true as possible. The builder should then project
the section lines with a set square on each side of the boat, mark off the profile from the
sheer plan, Fig. 65, and cut the block to this line, afterward planing it up true.

The blocks should now appear as sketched in Fig. 66. It is now ready for the shaping of its
exterior. A plane, a chisel, and a draw-knife are the only tools necessary to bring the hull
to the correct shape. The cardboard templates must be cut, one for each half-section, as shown
in the body plan, Fig. 67. These templates serve to show the proper outside shape of the hull.
The block for the hull must be cut away until each one of these templates fits properly into
place. The various stages are indicated in Figs. 68 and 69.

