Rome is betwixt four and five hundred miles distant from Nice, and one half of the way I was
resolved to travel by water. Indeed there is no other way of going from hence to Genoa, unless
you take a mule, and clamber along the mountains at the rate of two miles an hour, and at the
risque of breaking your neck every minute. The Apennine mountains, which are no other than
a continuation of the maritime Alps, form an almost continued precipice from Villefranche to
Lerici, which is almost forty-five miles on the other side of Genoa; and as they are generally
washed by the sea, there is no beach or shore, consequently the road is carried along the face
of the rocks, except at certain small intervals, which are occupied by towns and villages.
But, as there is a road for mules and foot passengers, it might certainly be enlarged and improved
so as to render it practicable by chaises and other wheel-carriages, and a toll might be exacted,
which in a little time would defray the expence: for certainly no person who travels to Italy,
from England, Holland, France, or Spain, would make a troublesome circuit to pass the Alps
by the way of Savoy and Piedmont, if he could have the convenience of going post by the way
of Aix, Antibes, and Nice, along the side of the Mediterranean, and through the Riviera of
Genoa, which from the sea affords the most agreeable and amazing prospect I ever beheld. What
pity it is, they cannot restore the celebrated Via Aurelia, mentioned in the Itinerarium of
Antoninus, which extended from Rome by the way of Genoa, and through this country as far as
Arles upon the Rhone. It was said to have been made by the emperor Marcus Aurelius; and some
of the vestiges of it are still to be seen in Provence. The truth is, the nobility of Genoa,
who are all merchants, from a low, selfish, and absurd policy, take all methods to keep their
subjects of the Riviera in poverty and dependence. With this view, they carefully avoid all
steps towards rendering that country accessible by land; and at the same time discourage their
trade by sea, lest it should interfere with the commerce of their capital, in which they themselves
are personally concerned.

Those who either will not or cannot bear the sea, and are equally averse to riding, may be
carried in a common chair, provided with a foot-board, on men's shoulders: this is the way
of travelling practised by the ladies of Nice, in crossing the mountains to Turin; but it is
very tedious and expensive, as the men must be often relieved.

The most agreeable carriage from here to Genoa, is a feluca, or open boat, rowed by ten or
twelve stout mariners. Though none of these boats belong to Nice, they are to be found every
day in our harbour, waiting for a fare to Genoa; and they are seen passing and repassing continually,
with merchandize or passengers, between Marseilles, Antibes, and the Genoese territories. A
feluca is large enough to take in a post-chaise; and there is a tilt over the stern sheets,
where the passengers sit, to protect them from the rain: between the seats one person may lie
commodiously upon a mattress, which is commonly supplied by the patron. A man in good health
may put up with any thing; but I would advise every valetudinarian who travels this way, to
provide his own chaise, mattrass, and bedlinnen, otherwise he will pass his time very uncomfortably.
If you go as a simple passenger in a feluca, you pay about a loui'dore for your place, and
you must be intirely under the direction of the patron, who, while he can bear the sea, will
prosecute his voyage by night as well as by day, and expose you to many other inconveniencies:
but for eight zequines, or four loui'dores, you can have a whole feluca to yourself, from Nice
to Genoa, and the master shall be obliged to put a-shore every evening. If you would have it
still more at your command, you may hire it at so much per day, and in that case, go on shore
as often, and stay as long as you please. This is the method I should take, were I to make
the voyage again; for I am persuaded I should find it very near as cheap, and much more agreeable
than any other.

The distance between this place and Genoa, when measured on the carte, does not exceed ninety
miles: but the people of the felucas insist upon its being one hundred and twenty. If they
creep along shore round the bottoms of all the bays, this computation may be true: but, except
when the sea is rough, they stretch directly from one head-land to another, and even when the
wind is contrary, provided the gale is not fresh, they perform the voyage in two days and a
half, by dint of rowing: when the wind is favourable, they will sail it easily in fourteen hours.

A man who has nothing but expedition in view, may go with the courier, who has always a light
boat well manned, and will be glad to accommodate a traveller for a reasonable gratification.
I know an English gentleman who always travels with the courier in Italy, both by sea and land.
In posting by land, he is always sure of having part of a good calash, and the best horses
that can be found; and as the expence of both is defrayed by the public, it costs him nothing
but a present to his companion, which does not amount to one fourth part of the expence he
would incur by travelling alone. These opportunities may be had every week in all the towns
of Italy.

For my own part, I hired a gondola from hence to Genoa. This is a boat smaller than a feluca,
rowed by four men, and steered by the patron; but the price was nine zequines, rather more
than I should have payed for a feluca of ten oars. I was assured that being very light, it
would make great way; and the master was particularly recommended to me, as an honest man and
an able mariner. I was accompanied in this voyage by my wife and Miss C--, together with one
Mr. R--, a native of Nice, whom I treated with the jaunt, in hopes that as he was acquainted
with the customs of the country, and the different ways of travelling in it, he would save
us much trouble, and some expence: but I was much disappointed. Some persons at Nice offered
to lay wagers that he would return by himself from Italy; but they were also disappointed.

We embarked in the beginning of September, attended by one servant. The heats, which render
travelling dangerous in Italy, begin to abate at this season. The weather was extremely agreeable;
and if I had postponed my voyage a little longer, I foresaw that I should not be able to return
before winter: in which case I might have found the sea too rough, and the weather too cold
for a voyage of one hundred and thirty-five miles in an open boat.

Having therefore provided myself with a proper pass, signed and sealed by our consul, as well
as with letters of recommendation from him to the English consuls at Genoa and Leghorn, a precaution
which I would advise all travellers to take, in case of meeting with accidents on the road,
we went on board about ten in the morning, stopped about half an hour at a friend's country-house
in the bay of St. Hospice, and about noon entered the harbour of Monaco, where the patron was
obliged to pay toll, according to the regulation which I have explained in a former letter.
This small town, containing about eight or nine hundred souls, besides the garrison, is built
on a rock which projects into the sea, and makes a very romantic appearance. The prince's palace
stands in the most conspicuous part, with a walk of trees before it. The apartments are elegantly
furnished, and adorned with some good pictures. The fortifications are in good repair, and
the place is garrisoned by two French battalions. The present prince of Monaco is a Frenchman,
son of the duke Matignon who married the heiress of Monaco, whose name was Grimaldi. The harbour
is well sheltered from the wind; but has not water sufficient to admit vessels of any great
burthen. Towards the north, the king of Sardinia's territories extend to within a mile of the
gate; but the prince of Monaco can go upon his own ground along shore about five or six miles
to the eastward, as far as Menton, another small town, which also belongs to him, and is situated
on the seaside. His revenues are computed at a million of French livres, amounting to something
more than forty thousand pounds sterling: but, the principality of Monaco, consisting of three
small towns, and an inconsiderable tract of barren rock, is not worth above seven thousand
a year; the rest arises from his French estate. This consists partly of the dutchy of Matignon,
and partly of the dutchy of Valentinois, which last was given to the ancestors of this prince
of Monaco, in the year 1640, by the French king, to make up the loss of some lands in the kingdom
of Naples, which were confiscated when he expelled the Spanish garrison from Monaco, and threw
himself into the arms of France: so that he is duke of Valentinois as well as of Matignon,
in that kingdom. He lives almost constantly in France; and has taken the name and arms of Grimaldi.

The Genoese territories begin at Ventimiglia, another town lying on the coast, at the distance
of twenty miles from Nice, a circumstance from which it borrows the name. Having passed the
towns of Monaco, Menton, Ventimiglia, and several other places of less consequence that lie
along this coast, we turned the point of St. Martin with a favourable breeze, and might have
proceeded twenty miles further before night: but the women began to be sick, as well as afraid
at the roughness of the water; Mr. R-- was so discomposed, that he privately desired the patron
to put ashore at St. Remo, on pretence that we should not find a tolerable auberge in any other
place between this and Noli, which was at the distance of forty miles. We accordingly landed,
and were conducted to the poste, which our gondeliere assured us was the best auberge in the
whole Riviera of Genoa. We ascended by a dark, narrow, steep stair, into a kind of public room,
with a long table and benches, so dirty and miserable, that it would disgrace the worst hedge
ale-house in England. Not a soul appeared to receive us. This is a ceremony one must not expect
to meet with in France; far less in Italy. Our patron going into the kitchen, asked a servant
if the company could have lodging in the house; and was answered, "he could not tell: the patron
was not at home." When he desired to know where the patron was, the other answered, "he was
gone to take the air." E andato a passeggiare. In the mean time, we were obliged to sit in
the common room among watermen and muleteers. At length the landlord arrived, and gave us to
understand, that he could accommodate us with chambers. In that where I lay, there was just
room for two beds, without curtains or bedstead, an old rotten table covered with dried figs,
and a couple of crazy chairs. The walls had been once white-washed: but were now hung with
cobwebs, and speckled with dirt of all sorts; and I believe the brick-floor had not been swept
for half a century. We supped in an outward room suitable in all respects to the chamber, and
fared villainously. The provision was very ill-dressed, and served up in the most slovenly
manner. You must not expect cleanliness or conveniency of any kind in this country. For this
accommodation I payed as much as if I had been elegantly entertained in the best auberge of
France or Italy.

Next day, the wind was so high that we could not prosecute our voyage, so that we were obliged
to pass other four and twenty hours in this comfortable situation. Luckily Mr. R-- found two
acquaintances in the place; one a Franciscan monk, a jolly fellow; and the other a maestro
di capella, who sent a spinnet to the inn, and entertained us agreeably with his voice and
performance, in both of which accomplishments he excelled. The padre was very good humoured,
and favoured us with a letter of recommendation to a friend of his, a professor in the university
of Pisa. You would laugh to see the hyperbolical terms in which he mentioned your humble servant;
but Italy is the native country of hyperbole.

St. Remo is a pretty considerable town, well-built upon the declivity of a gently rising hill,
and has a harbour capable of receiving small vessels, a good number of which are built upon
the beach: but ships of any burden are obliged to anchor in the bay, which is far from being
secure. The people of St. Remo form a small republic, which is subject to Genoa.

They enjoyed particular privileges, till the year 1753, when in consequence of a new gabelle
upon salt, they revolted: but this effort in behalf of liberty did not succeed. They were soon
reduced by the Genoese, who deprived them of all their privileges, and built a fort by the
sea-side, which serves the double purpose of defending the harbour and over-awing the town.
The garrison at present does not exceed two hundred men. The inhabitants are said to have lately
sent a deputation to Ratisbon, to crave the protection of the diet of the empire. There is
very little plain ground in this neighbourhood; but the hills are covered with oranges, lemons,
pomegranates, and olives, which produce a considerable traffic in fine fruit and excellent
oil. The women of St. Remo are much more handsome and better tempered than those of Provence.
They have in general good eyes, with open ingenuous countenances. Their dress, though remarkable,
I cannot describe: but upon the whole, they put me in mind of some portraits I have seen, representing
the females of Georgia and Mingrelia.

On the third day, the wind being abated, though still unfavourable, we reimbarked and rowed
along shore, passing by Porto-mauricio, and Oneglia; then turning the promontory called Capo
di Melle, we proceeded by Albenga, Finale, and many other places of inferior note. Portomauricio
is seated on a rock washed by the sea, but indifferently fortified, with an inconsiderable
harbour, which none but very small vessels can enter. About two miles to the eastward is Oneglia,
a small town with fortifications, lying along the open beach, and belonging to the king of
Sardinia. This small territory abounds with olive-trees, which produce a considerable quantity
of oil, counted the best of the whole Riviera. Albenga is a small town, the see of a bishop,
suffragan to the archbishop of Genoa. It lies upon the sea, and the country produces a great
quantity of hemp. Finale is the capital of a marquisate belonging to the Genoese, which has
been the source of much trouble to the republic; and indeed was the sole cause of their rupture
with the king of Sardinia and the house of Austria in the year 1745. The town is pretty well
built; but the harbour is shallow, open, and unsafe; nevertheless, they built a good number
of tartans and other vessels on the beach and the neighbouring country abounds with oil and
fruit, particularly with those excellent apples called pomi carli, which I have mentioned in
a former letter.

In the evening we reached the Capo di Noli, counted very dangerous in blowing weather. It is
a very high perpendicular rock or mountain washed by the sea, which has eaten into it in divers
places, so as to form a great number of caverns. It extends about a couple of miles, and in
some parts is indented into little creeks or bays, where there is a narrow margin of sandy
beach between it and the water. When the wind is high, no feluca will attempt to pass it; even
in a moderate breeze, the waves dashing against the rocks and caverns, which echo with the
sound, make such an awful noise, and at the same time occasion such a rough sea, as one cannot
hear, and see, and feel, without a secret horror.

On this side of the Cape, there is a beautiful strand cultivated like a garden; the plantations
extend to the very tops of the hills, interspersed with villages, castles, churches, and villas.
Indeed the whole Riviera is ornamented in the same manner, except in such places as admit of
no building nor  cultivation.

Having passed the Cape, we followed the winding of the coast, into a small bay, and arrived
at the town of Noli, where we proposed to pass the night. You will be surprised that we did
not go ashore sooner, in order to take some refreshment; but the truth is, we had a provision
of ham, tongues, roasted pullets, cheese, bread, wine, and fruit, in the feluca, where we every
day enjoyed a slight repast about one or two o'clock in the afternoon. This I mention as a
necessary piece of information to those who may be inclined to follow the same route. We likewise
found it convenient to lay in store of l'eau de vie, or brandy, for the use of the rowers,
who always expect to share your comforts.  On a meagre day, however, those ragamuffins will
rather die of hunger than suffer the least morsel of flesh-meat to enter their mouths. I have
frequently tried the experiment, by pressing them to eat something gras, on a Friday or Saturday:
but they always declined it with marks of abhorrence, crying, Dio me ne libere! God deliver
me from it! or some other words to that effect. I moreover observed, that not one of those
fellows ever swore an oath, or spoke an indecent word. They would by no means put to sea, of
a morning, before they had heard mass; and when the wind was unfavourable, they always set
out with a hymn to the Blessed Virgin, or St. Elmo, keeping time with their oars as they sung.
I have indeed remarked all over this country, that a man who transgresses the institutions
of the church in these small matters, is much more infamous than one who has committed the
most flagrant crimes against nature and morality. A murderer, adulterer, or s--m--te, will
obtain easy absolution from the church, and even find favour with society; but a man who eats
a pidgeon on a Saturday, without express licence, is avoided and abhorred, as a monster of
reprobation. I have conversed with several intelligent persons on the subject; and have reason
to believe, that a delinquent of this sort is considered as a luke-warm catholic, little better
than a heretic; and of all crimes they look upon heresy as the most damnable.

Noli is a small republic of fishermen subject to Genoa; but very tenacious of their privileges.
The town stands on the beach, tolerably well built, defended by a castle situated on a rock
above it; and the harbour is of little consequence. The auberge was such as made us regret
even the inn we had left at St. Remo. After a very odd kind of supper, which I cannot pretend
to describe, we retired to our repose: but I had not been in bed five minutes, when I felt
something crawling on different parts of my body, and taking a light to examine, perceived
above a dozen large bugs. You must know I have the same kind of antipathy to these vermin,
that some persons have to a cat or breast of veal. I started up immediately, and wrapping myself
in a great coat, sick as I was, laid down in the outer room upon a chest, where I continued
till morning.

One would imagine that in a mountainous country like this, there should be plenty of goats;
and indeed, we saw many flocks of them feeding among the rocks, yet we could not procure half
a pint of milk for our tea, if we had given the weight of it in gold. The people here have
no idea of using milk, and when you ask them for it, they stand gaping with a foolish face
of surprise, which is exceedingly provoking. It is amazing that instinct does not teach the
peasants to feed their children with goat's milk, so much more nourishing and agreeable than
the wretched sustenance on which they live. Next day we rowed by Vado and Savona, which last
is a large town, with a strong citadel, and a harbour, which was formerly capable of receiving
large ships: but it fell a sacrifice to the jealousy of the Genoese, who have partly choaked
it up, on pretence that it should not afford shelter to the ships of war belonging to those
states which might be at enmity with the republic.

Then we passed Albifola, Sestri di Ponente, Novi, Voltri, and a great number of villages, villas,
and magnificent palaces belonging to the Genoese nobility, which form almost a continued chain
of buildings along the strand for thirty miles.

About five in the afternoon, we skirted the fine suburbs of St. Pietro d' Arena, and arrived
at Genoa, which makes a dazzling appearance when viewed from the sea, rising like an amphitheatre
in a circular form from the water's edge, a considerable way up the mountains, and surrounded
on the land side by a double wall, the most exterior of which is said to extend fifteen miles
in circuit. The first object that strikes your eye at a distance, is a very elegant pharos,
or lighthouse, built on the projection of a rock on the west side of the harbour, so very high,
that, in a clear day, you may see it at the distance of thirty miles. Turning the light-house
point, you find yourself close to the mole, which forms the harbour of Genoa. It is built at
a great expence from each side of the bay, so as to form in the sea two long magnificent jettes.
At the extremity of each is another smaller lanthorn. These moles are both provided with brass-cannon,
and between them is the entrance into the harbour. But this is still so wide as to admit a
great sea, which, when the wind blows hard from south and south-west, is very troublesome to
the shipping. Within the mole there is a smaller harbour or wet dock, called Darsena, for the
gallies of the republic. We passed through a considerable number of ships and vessels lying
at anchor, and landing at the water-gate, repaired to an inn called La Croix de Malthe in the
neighbourhood of the harbour. Here we met with such good entertainment as prepossessed us in
favour of the interior parts of Italy, and contributed with other motives to detain us some
days in this city. But I have detained you so long, that I believe you wish I may proceed no
farther; and therefore I take my leave for the present, being very sincerely-- Yours.

LETTER XXVI

NICE, January 15, 1765.

