They had trudged the better part of two miles when they came upon the horse tethered by the
reins to one of two gate-pillars, which stood gateless beside the road. Colonel John got to
his saddle, and they trotted on. Notwithstanding which it was late in the afternoon when they
approached the town of Tralee.

In those days it was a town much ruined. The grim castle of the Desmonds, scene of the midnight
murder which had brought so many woes on Ireland, still elbowed the grey Templars Cloister,
and looked down, as it frowned across the bay, on the crumbling aisles and squalid graves of
the Abbey. To Bale, as he scanned the dark pile, it was but a keep--a mere nothing beside Marienburg
or Stettin--rising above the hovels of an Irish town. But to the Irishman it stood for many
a bitter memory and many a crime, besides that murder of a guest which will never be forgotten.
The Colonel sighed as he gazed.

Presently his eyes dropped to the mean houses which flanked the entrance to the town; and he
recognised that if all the saints had not vouchsafed their company, the delay caused by the
meeting with the priest had done somewhat. For at that precise moment a man was riding into
the town before them, and the horse under the man was Flavia McMurrough's lost mare.

Colonel John's eye lightened as he recognised its points. With a sign to Bale he fell in behind
the man and followed him through two or three ill-paved and squalid streets. Presently the
rider passed through a loop-holed gateway, before which a soldier was doing sentry-go. The
two followed. Thence the quarry crossed an open space surrounded by dreary buildings which
no military eye could take for aught but a barrack yard. The two still followed--the sentry
staring after them. On the far side of the yard the mare and its rider vanished through a second
archway, which appeared to lead to an inner court. The Colonel, nothing intimidated, went after
them. Fortune, he thought, had favoured him.

But as he emerged from the tunnel-like passage he raised his head in astonishment. A din of
voices, an outbreak of laughter and revelry, burst in a flood of sound upon his ears. He turned
his face in the direction whence the sounds came, and saw three open windows, and at each window
three or four flushed countenances. His sudden emergence from the tunnel, perhaps his look
of surprise, wrought an instant's silence, which was followed by a ruder outburst.

"Cock! cock! cock!" shrieked a tipsy voice, and an orange, hurled at random, missed the Colonel's
astonished face by a yard. The mare which had led him so far had disappeared, and instinctively
he drew bridle. He stared at the window.

"Mark one!" cried a second roisterer, and a cork, better aimed than the orange, struck the
Colonel sharply on the chin. A shout of laughter greeted the hit.

He raised his hat. "Gentlemen," he remonstrated, "gentlemen----"

He could proceed no further. A flight of corks, a renewed cry of "Cock! cock! cock!" a chorus
of "Fetch him, Ponto! Dead, good dog! Find him, Ponto!" drowned his remonstrances. Perhaps
in the scowling face at his elbow--for William Bale had followed him and was looking very fierce
indeed--the wits of the --th found more amusement than in the master's mild astonishment.

"Who the devil is he?" cried one of the seniors, raising his voice above the uproar. "English
or Irish?"

"Irish for a dozen!" a voice answered. "Here, Paddy, where's your papers?"

"Ay, be jabers!" in an exaggerated brogue; "it's the broth of a boy he is, and never a face
as long as his in ould Ireland!"

"Gentlemen," the Colonel said, getting in a word at last. "Gentlemen, I have been in many companies
before this, and----"

"And by G--d, you shall be in ours!" one of the revellers retorted. And "Have him in! Fetch
him in!" roared a dozen voices, amid much laughter. In a twinkling half as many young fellows
had leapt from the windows, and surrounded him. "Who-whoop!" cried one, "Who-whoop!"

"Steady, gentlemen, steady!" the Colonel said, a note of sternness in his voice. "I've no objection
to joining you, or to a little timely frolic, but----"

"Join us you will, whether or no!" replied one, more drunken or more turbulent than the rest.
He made as if he would lay hands on the Colonel, and, to avoid violence, the latter suffered
himself to be helped from his saddle. In a twinkling he was urged through the doorway, leaving
his reins in Bale's hand, whose face, for sheer wrath and vindictiveness, was a picture.

Boisterous cries of "Hallo, sobersides!" and "Cock, cock, cock!" greeted the Colonel, as, partly
of his own accord and partly urged by unceremonious hands, he crossed the threshold, and shot
forward into the room.

The scene presented by the apartment matched the flushed faces and the wandering eyes which
the windows had framed. The long table was strewn with flasks and glasses and half-peeled fruit,
the floor with empty bottles. A corner of the table had been cleared for a main at hazard;
but to make up for this the sideboard was a wilderness of broken meats and piled-up dishes,
and an overturned card-table beside one of the windows had strewn the floor with cards. Here,
there, everywhere on chairs, on hooks, were cast sword-belts, neckcloths, neglected wigs.

A peaceful citizen of that day had as soon found himself in a bear-pit; and even the Colonel's
face grew a trifle longer as hands, not too gentle, conducted him towards the end of the table.
"Gentlemen, gentlemen," he began, "I have been in many companies, as I said before, and----"

"A speech! Old Gravity's speech!" roared a middle-aged, bold-eyed man, who had suggested the
sally from the windows, and from the first had set the younger spirits an example of recklessness.
"Hear to him!" He filled a glass of wine and waved it perilously near the Colonel's nose. "Old
Gravity's speech! Give it tongue!" he cried. "The flure's your own, and we're listening."

Colonel John eyed him with a slight contraction of the features. But the announcement, if ill-meant,
availed to procure silence. The more sober had resumed their seats. He raised his head and spoke.

"Gentlemen," he said--and it was strange to note the effect of his look as his eyes fell first
on one and then on another, fraught with a dignity which insensibly wrought on them. "Gentlemen,
I have been in many companies, and I have found it true, all the world over, that what a man
brings he finds. I have the honour to speak to you as a soldier to soldiers----"

"English or Irish?" asked a tall sallow man--sharply, but in a new tone.

"Irish!"

"Oh, be jabers!" from the man with the wineglass.

But the Colonel's eye and manner had had their effect, and "Let him speak!" the sallow man
said. "And you, Payton, have done with your fooling, will you?"

"Well, hear to him!"

"I have been in many camps and many companies, gentlemen," the Colonel resumed, "and those
of many nations. But wherever I have been I have found that if a man brought courtesy with
him, he met with courtesy at the hands of others. And if he brought no offence, he received
none. I am a stranger here, for I have been out of my own country for a score of years. On
my return you welcome me," he smiled, "a little boisterously perhaps, but I am sure, gentlemen,
with a good intent. And as I have fared elsewhere I am sure I shall fare at your hands."

"Well, sure," from the background, "and haven't we made you welcome?"

"Almost too freely," the Colonel replied, smiling good-humouredly. "A peaceable man who had
not lived as long as I have might have found himself at a loss in face of so strenuous a welcome.
Corks, perhaps, are more in place in bottles----"

"And a dale more in place out of them!" from the background.

"But if you will permit me to explain my errand, I will say no more of that. My name, gentlemen,
is Sullivan, Colonel John Sullivan of Skull, formerly of the Swedish service, and much at your
service. I shall be still more obliged if any of you will be kind enough to inform me who is
the purchaser----"

Payton interrupted him rudely. "Oh, d--n! We have had enough of this!" he cried. "Sink all
purchasers, I say!" And with a drunken crow he thrust his neighbour against the speaker, causing
both to reel. How it happened no one saw--whether Payton himself staggered in the act, or flung
the wine wantonly; but somehow the contents of his glass flew over the Colonel's face and neckcloth.

Half a dozen men rose from their seats. "Shame!" an indignant voice cried.

Among those who had risen was the sallow man. "Payton," he said sharply, "what did you do that
for?"

"Because I chose, if you like!" the stout man answered. "What is it to you? I am ready to give
him satisfaction when he likes, and where he likes, and no heel-taps! And what more can he
want? Do you hear, sir?" he continued in a bullying tone. "Sword or pistols, before breakfast
or after dinner, drunk or sober, Jack Payton's your man. D--n me, it shall never be said in
my time that the --th suffered a crop-eared Irishman to preach to them in their own mess-room!
You can send your friend to me when you please. He'll find me!"

The Colonel was wiping the wine from his chin and neckcloth. He had turned strangely pale at
the moment of the insult. More than one of those who watched him curiously--and of such were
all in the room, Payton excepted--and who noted the slow preciseness of his movements and the
care with which he cleansed himself, albeit his hand shook, expected some extraordinary action.

But no one looked for anything so abnormal or so astonishing as the course he took when he
spoke. Nothing in his bearing had prepared them for it; nor anything in his conduct which,
so far, had been that of a man of the world not too much at a loss even in the unfavourable
circumstances in which he was placed--circumstances which would have unnerved many a one.

"I do not fight," he said. "Your challenge is cheap, sir, as your insult."

Payton stared. He had never been more astonished in his life. "Good L--d!" he cried. "You do
not fight? Heaven and earth! and you a soldier!"

"I do not fight."

"After that, man! Not--after----" He did not finish the sentence, but laughed with uplifted
chin, as at some great joke.

"No," Colonel John said between his teeth.

And then no one spoke. A something in Colonel John's tone and manner, a something in the repression
of his voice, sobered the spectators, and turned that which might have seemed an ignominy,
a surrender, into a tragedy. And a tragedy in which they all had their share. For the insult
had been so wanton, so gross, so brutal, that there was not one of the witnesses who had not
felt shame, not one whose sympathy had not been for a moment with the victim, and who did not
experience a pang on his account as he stood, mild and passive, before them.

Payton alone was moved only by contempt. "Lord above us, man!" he cried, finding his voice
again. Are you a Quaker? If so, why the devil do you call yourself a soldier?"

"I am no Quaker," Colonel John answered, "but I do not fight duels."

"Why?"

"If I killed you," the Colonel replied, eyeing him steadily, "would it dry my neckcloth or
clean my face?"

"No!" Payton retorted with a sneer, "but it would clean your honour!" He had felt the reprehension
in the air, he had been conscious for a few seconds that he had not the room with him; but
the perception made him only the more arrogant now that he felt his feet again. "It would prove,
man, that, unlike the beasts that perish, you valued something more than your life!"

"I do."

"What?" Payton asked with careless disdain.

"Among other things, my duty." Payton laughed brutally. "Why, by the powers, you are a preacher!"
he retorted. "Hang your duty, sir, and you for a craven! Give me acts, not words! It's a man's
duty to defend his honour, and you talk of your neckcloth! There's for a new neckcloth!" He
pulled out a half-crown and flung it, with an insulting gesture, upon the table. "Show us your
back, and for the future give gentlemen of honour--a wide berth! You are no mate for them!"

The act and the words were too strong for the stomachs of the more generous among his hearers.
A murmur, an undoubted murmur rose--for if Payton was feared he was not loved; and the sallow-faced
man, whose name was Marsh, spoke out. "Easy, Payton," he said. "The gentleman----"

"The gentleman, eh?"

"Did not come here of his own accord, and you've said enough, and done enough! For my part----"

"I didn't ask for your interference!" the other cried insolently.

"Well, anyway----"

"And I don't want it! And I won't have it; do you hear, Marsh?" Payton repeated menacingly.
"You know me, and I know you."

"I know that you are a better fencer and a better shot than I am," Marsh replied, shrugging
his shoulders, "and I daresay than any of us. We are apt to believe it, anyway. But----"

"I would advise you to let that be enough," Payton sneered.

It was then that the Colonel, who had stood silent during the altercation of which he was the
subject, spoke--and in a tone somewhat altered. "I am much obliged to you, sir," he said, addressing
the sallow-faced man, "but I will cause no further trouble. I crave leave to say one word only,
which may come home to some among you. We are all, at times, at the mercy of mean persons.
Yes, sir, of mean persons," the Colonel repeated, raising his voice and speaking in a tone
so determined--he seemed another man--that Payton, in the act of seizing a decanter to hurl
at him, hesitated. "For any but a mean person," Colonel John continued, drawing himself up
to his full height, "finding that he had insulted one who could not meet him on even terms--one
who could not resent the insult in the manner intended--would have deemed it all one as if
he had insulted a one-armed man, or a blind man, and would have set himself right by an apology."

At that word Payton found his voice. "Hang your apology!" he cried furiously.

"By an apology," the Colonel repeated, fixing him with eyes of unmeasured contempt, "which
would have lowered him no more than an apology to a woman or a child. Not doing so, his act
dishonours himself only, and those who sit with him. And one day, unless I mistake not, his
own blood, and the blood of others, will rest upon his head."

With that word the speaker turned slowly, walked with an even pace to the door, and opened
it, none gainsaying him. On the threshold he paused and looked back. Something, possibly some
chord of superstition in his breast which his adversary's last words had touched, held Payton
silent: and silent the Colonel's raised finger found him.

"I believe," Colonel John said, gazing solemnly at him, "that we shall meet again." And he
went out.

Payton turned to the table, and, with an unsteady hand, filled a glass. He read disapprobation
in the eyes about him, but he had shaken the momentary chill from his own spirits, and he stared
them down. "Sink the old Square-Toes!" he cried. "He got what he deserved! Who'll throw a main
with me?"

"Thirty guineas against your new mare, if you like?"

"No, confound you," Payton retorted angrily. "Didn't I say she wasn't for sale?"

CHAPTER VI

THE MAÎTRE D'ARMES

Beyond doubt Colonel John had got himself off the scene with a certain amount of dignity. But
with all that he had done and suffered in the lands beyond the Baltic and the Vistula, he had
not yet become so perfect a philosopher as to be indifferent to the opinion held of him by
others. He was, indeed, as he retired, as unhappy as a more ordinary man might have been in
the same case. He knew that he was no craven, that he had given his proofs a score of times.
But old deeds and a foreign reputation availed nothing here. And it was with a deep sense of
vexation and shame that he rode out of the barrack-yard. Why, oh why! had he been so unlucky
as to enter it? He was a man, after all, and the laughter of the mess-room, the taunts of the
bully, burned his ears.

Nor were his spirits low on his account only. The cruelty of man to man, the abuse of strength
by those who had it, and the pains of those who had it not, the crookedness of the world in
which the weak go to the wall--thoughts of these things weighed him down. But more, and more
to the purpose, he saw that after what had happened, his chances of success in the enterprise
which had brought him to town, and which was itself but a means to an end, were lessened. It
might not be possible to pursue that enterprise any farther. This was a mortifying thought,
and accounted for the melancholy face with which he sought the inn, and supped; now wishing
that he had not done this or that, now pondering how he might turn the flank of a misfortune
which threatened to shatter all his plans.

For if he was anxious to recover the mare, his anxiety did not rest there. Her recovery was
but a step to other things; to that influence at Morristown which would make him potent for
good; to that consideration which would enable him to expel foolish councils, and silence that
simmering talk of treason which might at any moment boil up into action and ruin a countryside.
But he knew that he could only get the mare from those who held her by imposing himself upon
them; and to do this after what had happened seemed impossible. The story would be told, must
be told: it would be carried far and wide. Such things were never hid; and he had come off
so ill, as the world viewed things, he had cut so poor a figure, that after this he could hope
for nothing from his personal influence here or at Morristown. Nothing, unless he could see
himself right at Tralee.

He brooded long over the matter, and at length--but not until after his meal--he hit on a plan,
promising, though distasteful. He called Bale, and made inquiries through that taciturn man;
and next morning he sat late at his breakfast. He had learned that the garrison used the inn
much, many of the officers calling there for their "morning"; and the information proved correct.
About ten he heard heavy steps in the stone-paved passage, spurs rang out an arrogant challenge,
voices called for Patsy and Molly, and demanded this or that. By-and-by two officers, almost
lads, sauntered into the room in which he sat, and, finding him there, moved with a wink and
a grin to the window. They leant out, and he heard them laugh; he knew that they were discussing
him before they turned to the daily fare--the neat ankles of a passing "colleen," the glancing
eyes of the French milliner over the way, or the dog-fight at the corner. The two remained
thus, half eclipsed as far as the Colonel was concerned, until presently the sallow-faced man
sauntered idly into the room.

He did not see the Colonel at once, but the latter rose and bowed, and Marsh, a little added
colour in his face, returned the salute--with an indifferent grace. It was clear that, though
he had behaved better than his fellows on the previous day, he had no desire to push the acquaintance
farther.

Colonel John, however, gave him no chance. Still standing, and with a grave, courteous face,
"May I, as a stranger," he said, "trouble you with a question, sir?"

The two lady-killers at the window heard the words and nudged one another, with a stifled chuckle
at their comrade's predicament. Captain Marsh, with one eye on them, assented stiffly.

"Is there any one," the Colonel asked, "in Tralee--I fear the chance is small--who gives fencing
lessons?--or who is qualified to do so?"

The Captain's look of surprise yielded to one of pitying comprehension. He smiled--he could
not help it; while the young men drew in their heads to hear the better.

"Yes," he answered, "there is."

"In the regiment, I presume?"

"He is attached to it temporarily. If you will inquire at the Armoury for Lemoine, the Maître
d'Armes, he will oblige you, I have no doubt. But----"

"If you please?" the Colonel said politely, seeing that Marsh hesitated.

"If you are not a skilled swordsman, I fear that it is not one lesson, or two, or a dozen,
will enable you to meet Captain Payton, if you have such a thing in your mind, sir. He is but
little weaker than Lemoine, and Lemoine is a fair match with a small-sword for any man out
of London. Brady in Dublin, possibly, and perhaps half a dozen in England are his betters,
but----" he stopped abruptly, his ear catching a snigger at the window. "I need not trouble
you with that," he concluded lamely.

"Still," the Colonel answered simply, "a long reach goes for much, I have heard, and I am tall."

Captain Marsh looked at him in pity, and he might have put his compassion into words, but for
the young bloods at the window, who, he knew, would repeat the conversation. He contented himself,
therefore, with saying rather curtly, "I believe it goes some way." And he turned stiffly to
go out.

But the Colonel had a last question to put to him. "At what hour," he asked, "should I be most
likely to find this--Lemoine, at leisure?"

"Lemoine?"

"If you please."

Marsh opened his mouth to answer, but found himself anticipated by one of the youngsters. "Three
in the afternoon is the best time," the lad said bluntly, speaking over his shoulder. He popped
out his head again, that his face, swollen by his perception of the jest, might not betray it.

But the Colonel seemed to see nothing. "I thank you," he said, bowing courteously.

And re-seating himself, as Marsh went out, he finished his breakfast. The two at the window,
after exploding once or twice in an attempt to stifle their laughter, drew in their heads,
and, still red in the face, marched solemnly past the Colonel, and out of the room. His seat,
now the window was clear, commanded a view of the street, and presently he saw the two young
bloods go by in the company of four or five of their like. They were gesticulating, nor was
there much doubt, from the laughter with which their tale was received, that they were retailing
a joke of signal humour.

That did not surprise the Colonel. But when the door opened a moment later, and Marsh came
hastily into the room, and with averted face began to peer about for something, he was surprised.

"Where the devil's that snuff-box!" the sallow-faced man exclaimed. "Left it somewhere!" Then,
looking about him to make sure that the door was closed. "See, here sir," he said awkwardly,
"it's no business of mine, but for a man who has served as you say you have, you're a d----d
simple fellow. Take my advice and don't go to Lemoine's at three, if you go at all."

"No?" the Colonel echoed.

"Can't you see they'll all be there to guy you?" Marsh retorted impatiently. He could not help
liking the man, and yet the man seemed a fool! The next moment, with a hasty nod, he was gone.
He had found the box in his pocket.

Colonel Sullivan smiled, and, after carefully brushing the crumbs from his breeches, rose from
the table. "A good man," he muttered. "Pity he has not more courage." The next moment he came
to attention, for slowly past the window moved Captain Payton himself, riding Flavia's mare,
and talking with one of the young bloods who walked at his stirrup.

The man and the horse! The Colonel began to understand that something more than wantonness
had inspired Payton's conduct the previous night. Either he had been privy from the first to
the plot to waylay the horse; or he had bought it cheaply knowing how it had been acquired;
or--a third alternative--it had been placed in his hands, to the end that his reputation as
a fire-eater might protect it. In any event, he had had an interest in nipping inquiry in the
bud; and, learning who the Colonel was, had acted on the instant, and with considerable presence
of mind.

The Colonel looked thoughtful; and though the day was fine for Ireland--that is, no more than
a small rain was falling--he remained within doors until five minutes before three o'clock.
Bale had employed the interval in brushing the stains of travel from his master's clothes,
and combing his horseman's wig with particular care; so that it was a neat and spruce gentleman
who at five minutes before three walked through Tralee, and, attending to the directions he
had received, approached a particular door, a little within the barrack gate.

Had he glanced up at the windows he would have seen faces at them; moreover, a suspicious ear
might have caught, as he paused on the threshold, a scurrying of feet, mingled with stifled
laughter. But he did not look up. He did not seem to expect to see more than he found, when
he entered--a great bare room with its floor strewn with sawdust and its walls adorned here
and there by a gaunt trophy of arms. In the middle of the floor, engaged apparently in weighing
one foil against another, was a stout, dark-complexioned man, whose light and nimble step,
as he advanced to meet his visitor, gave the lie to his weight.

Certainly there came from a half-opened door at the end of the room a stealthy sound as of
rats taking cover. But Colonel John did not look that way. His whole attention was bent upon
the Maître d'Armes, who bowed low to him. Clicking his heels together, and extending his palms
in the French fashion, "Good-morning, sare," he said, his southern accent unmistakable. "I
make you welcome."

The Colonel returned his salute less elaborately. "The Maître d'Armes Lemoine?" he said.

"Yes, sare, that is me. At your service!"

"I am a stranger in Tralee, and I have been recommended to apply to you. You are, I am told,
accustomed to give lessons."

"With the small-sword?" the Frenchman answered, with the same gesture of the open hands. "It
is my profession."

"I am desirous of brushing up my knowledge--such as it is."

"A vare good notion," the fencing-master replied, his black beady eyes twinkling. "Vare good
for me. Vare good also for you. Always ready, is the gentleman's motto; and to make himself
ready, his high recreation. But, doubtless, sare," with a faint smile, "you are proficient,
and I teach you nothing. You come but to sweat a little." An observant person would have noticed
that as he said this he raised his voice above his usual tone.

"At one time," Colonel John replied with simplicity, "I was fairly proficient. Then--this happened!"
He held out his right hand. "You see?"

"Ah!" the Frenchman said in a low tone, and he raised his hands. "That is ogly! That is vare
ogly! Can you hold with that?" he added, inspecting the hand with interest. He was a different man.

"So, so," the Colonel answered cheerfully.

"Not strongly, eh? It is not possible."

"Not very strongly," the Colonel assented. His hand, like Bale's, lacked two fingers.

Lemoine muttered something under his breath, and looked at the Colonel with a wrinkled brow.
"Tut--tut!" he said, "and how long are you like that, sare?"

"Seven years."

"Pity! pity!" Lemoine exclaimed. Again he looked at his visitor with perplexed eyes. After
which, "Dam!" he said suddenly.

The Colonel stared.

"It is not right!" the Frenchman continued, frowning. "I--no! Pardon me, sare, I do not fence
with les estropiés. That is downright! That is certain, sare. I do not do it."

If the Colonel had been listening he might have caught the sound of a warning cough, with a
stir, and a subdued murmur of voices--all proceeding from the direction of the inner room.
But he had his back to the half-opened door and he seemed to be taken up with the fencing-master's
change of tone. "But if," he objected, "I am willing to pay for an hour's practice?"

"Another day, sare. Another day, if you will."

"But I shall not be here another day. I have but to-day. By-and-by," he continued with a smile
as kindly as it was humorous, "I shall begin to think that you are afraid to pit yourself against
a manchot!"

"Oh, la! la!" The Frenchman dismissed the idea with a contemptuous gesture.

"Do me the favour, then," Colonel John retorted. "If you please?"

Against one of the walls were three chairs arranged in a row. Before each stood a boot-jack,
and beside it a pair of boot-hooks; over it, fixed in the wall, were two or three pegs for
the occupant's wig, cravat, and cane. The Colonel, without waiting for a further answer, took
his seat on one of the chairs, removed his boots, and then his coat, vest, and wig, which he
hung on the pegs above him.

"And now," he said gaily, as he stood up, "the mask!"

He did not see the change--for he seemed to have no suspicion--but as he rose, the door of
the room behind him became fringed with grinning faces. Payton, the two youths who had leant
from the window of the inn and who had carried his words, a couple of older officers, half
a dozen subalterns, all were there--and one or two civilians. The more grave could hardly keep
the more hilarious in order. The curtain was ready to go up on what they promised themselves
would be the most absurd scene. The stranger who fought no duels, yet thought that a lesson
or two would make him a match for a dead-hand like Payton--was ever such a promising joke conceived?
The good feeling, even the respect which the Colonel had succeeded in awakening for a short
time the evening before, were forgotten in the prospect of such a jest.

The Frenchman made no further demur. He had said what he could, and it was not his business
to quarrel with his best clients. He took his mask, and proffered a choice of foils to his
antagonist, whose figure, freed from the heavy coat and vest of the day, and the overshadowing
wig, seemed younger and more supple than the Frenchman had expected. "A pity, a pity!" the
latter said to himself. "To have lost, if he ever was professor, the joy of life!"

"Are you ready?" Colonel John asked.

"At your service, sare," the Maître d'Armes replied--but not with much heartiness. The two
advanced each a foot, they touched swords, then saluted with that graceful and courteous engagement
which to an ignorant observer is one of the charms of the foil. As they did so, and steel grated
on steel, the eavesdroppers in the inner room ventured softly from ambush--like rats issuing
forth; soon they were all standing behind the Colonel, the sawdust, and the fencers' stamping
feet as they lunged or gave back, covering the sound of their movements.

They were on the broad grin when they came out. But it took them less than a minute to discover
that the entertainment was not likely to be so extravagantly funny as they had hoped. The Colonel
was not, strictly speaking, a tyro; moreover, he had, as he said, a long reach. He was no match
indeed for Lemoine, who touched him twice in the first bout and might have touched him thrice
had he put forth his strength. But he did nothing absurd. When he dropped his point, therefore,
at the end of the rally, and, turning to take breath came face to face with the gallery of
onlookers, the best-natured of these felt rather foolish. But Colonel John seemed to find nothing
surprising in their presence. He saluted them courteously with his weapon. "I am afraid I cannot
show you much sport, gentlemen," he said.

One or two muttered something--a good day, or the like. The rest grinned unmeaningly. Payton
said nothing, but, folding his arms with a superior air, leant, frowning haughtily, against
the wall.

"Parbleu," said Lemoine, as they rested. "It is a pity. The wrist is excellent, sare. But the
pointing finger is not--is not!"

"I do my best," the Colonel answered, with cheerful resignation. "Shall we engage again?"

"At your pleasure."

The Frenchman's eye no longer twinkled; his gallantry was on its mettle. He was grave and severe,
fixing his gaze on the Colonel's attack, and remaining blind to the nods and shrugs and smiles
of amusement of his patrons in the background. Again he touched the Colonel, and, alas! again;
with an ease which, good-natured as he was, he could not mask.

Colonel John, a little breathed, and perhaps a little chagrined also, dropped his point. Some
one coughed, and another tittered.

"I think he will need another lesson or two," Payton remarked, speaking ostensibly to one of
his companions, but loudly enough for all to hear.

The man whom he addressed made an inaudible answer. The Colonel turned towards them.

"And--a new hand," Payton added in the same tone.

Even for his henchman the remark was almost too much. But the Colonel, strange to say--perhaps
he really was very simple--seemed to find nothing offensive in it. On the contrary, he replied
to it.

"That was precisely," he said, "what I thought when this"--he indicated his maimed hand--"happened
to me. And I did my best to procure one."

"Did you succeed?" Payton retorted in an insolent tone.

"To some extent," the Colonel replied, in the most matter-of-fact manner. And he transferred
the foil to his left hand.

"Give you four to one," Payton rejoined, "Lemoine hits you twice before you hit him once."

Colonel John had anticipated some of the things that had happened. But he had not foreseen
this. He was quick to see the use to which he might put it, and it was only for an instant
that he hesitated. Then "Four to one?" he repeated.

"Five, if you like!" Payton sneered.

"If you will wager," the Colonel said slowly, "if you will wager the grey mare you were riding
this morning, sir----"

Payton uttered an angry oath. "What do you mean?" he said.

"Against ten guineas," Colonel John continued carelessly, bending the foil against the floor
and letting it spring to its length again, "I will make that wager."

Payton scowled at him. He was aware of the other's interest in the mare, and suspected, at
least, that he had come to town to recover her. And caution would have had him refuse the snare.
But his toadies were about him, he had long ruled the roast, to retreat went against the grain;
while to suppose that the man had the least chance against Lemoine was absurd. Yet he hesitated.
"What do you know about the mare?" he said coarsely.

"I have seen her. But of course, if you are afraid to wager her, sir----"

Payton answered to the spur. "Bah! Afraid?" he cried contemptuously. "Done, with you!"

"That is settled," the Colonel replied. "I am at your service," he continued, turning to the
Maître d'Armes. "I trust," indicating that he was going to fence with his left hand, "that
this will not embarrass you?"

"No! But it is interesting, by G--d, it is vare interesting," the Frenchman replied. "I have
encountered les gauchers before, and----"

He did not finish the sentence, but saluting, he assumed an attitude a little more wary than
usual. He bent his knees a trifle lower, and held his left shoulder somewhat more advanced,
as compared with his right. The foils felt one another, and "Oh, va, va!" he muttered. "I understand,
the droll!"

For half a minute or so the faces of the onlookers reflected only a mild surprise, mingled
with curiosity. But the fencers had done little more than feel one another's blades, they had
certainly not exchanged more than half a dozen serious passes, before this was changed, before
one face grew longer and another more intent. A man who was no fencer, and therefore no judge,
spoke. A fierce oath silenced him. Another murmured an exclamation under his breath. A third
stooped low with his hands on his hips that he might not lose a lunge or a parry. For Payton,
his face became slowly a dull red. At length, "Ha!" cried one, drawing in his breath. And he
was right. The Maître d'Armes' button, sliding under the Colonel's blade, had touched his opponent.
At once, Lemoine sprang back out of danger, the two points dropped, the two fencers stood back
to take breath.

For a few seconds the Colonel's chagrin was plain. He looked, and was, disappointed. Then he
conquered the feeling, and he smiled. "I fear you are too strong for me," he said.

"Not at all," the Frenchman made answer. "Not at all! It was fortune, sare. I know not what
you were with your right hand, but you are with the left vare strong, of the first force. It
is certain."

Payton, an expert, had been among the earliest to discern, with as much astonishment as mortification,
the Colonel's skill. With a sudden sinking of the heart, he had foreseen the figure he would
cut if Lemoine were worsted; he had endured a moment of great fear. But at this success he
choked down his apprehensions, and, a sanguine man, he breathed again. One more hit, one more
success on Lemoine's part, and he had won the wager! But with all he could do he could no longer
bear himself carelessly. Pallid and troubled, he watched, biting his lip; and though he longed
to say something cutting, he could think of nothing. Nay, if it came to that, he could not
trust his voice, and while he still faltered, seeking for a gibe and finding none, the two
combatants had crossed their foils again. Their tense features, plain through the masks, as
well as their wary movements, made it clear that they played for a victory of which neither
was confident.

By this time the rank and file of the spectators had been reinforced by the arrival of Marsh;
who, discovering a scene so unexpected, and quickly perceiving that Lemoine was doing his utmost,
wondered what Payton's thoughts were. Apart from the wager, it was clear that if Lemoine had
not met his match, the Captain had; and in the future would have to mend his manners in respect
to one person present. Doubtless many of those in the room, on whose toes Payton had often
trodden, had the same idea, and felt secret joy, pleased that the bully of the regiment was
like to meet with a reverse and a master.

Whatever their thoughts, a quick rally diverted them, and riveted all eyes on the fencers.
For a moment thrust and parry followed one another so rapidly that the untrained gaze could
not distinguish them or trace the play. The spectators held their breath, expecting a hit with
each second. But the rally died away again, neither of the players had got through the other's
guard; and now they fell to it more slowly, the Colonel, a little winded, giving ground, and
Lemoine pressing him.

Then, no one saw precisely how it happened, whiff-whaff, Lemoine's weapon flew from his hand
and struck the wall with a whirr and a jangle. The fencing-master wrung his wrist. "Sacre!"
he cried, between his teeth, unable in the moment of surprise to control his chagrin.

The Colonel touched him with his button for form's sake, then stepped rapidly to the wall,
picked up the foil by the blade, and courteously returned it to him. Two or three cried "Bravo,"
but faintly, as barely comprehending what had happened. The greater part stood silent in sheer
astonishment. For Payton, he remained dumb with mortification and disgust; and if he had the
grace to be thankful for anything, he was thankful that for the moment attention was diverted
from him.

Lemoine, indeed, the person more immediately concerned, had only eyes for his opponent, whom
he regarded with a queer mixture of approval and vexation. "You have been at Angelo's school
in Paris, sare?" he said, in the tone of one who stated a fact rather than asked a question.

"It is true," the Colonel answered, smiling. "You have guessed it."

"And learned that trick from him?"

"I did. It is of little use except to a left-handed man."

"Yet in play with one not of the first force it succeeds twice out of three times," Lemoine
answered. "Twice out of three times, with the right hand. Ma foi! I remember it well! I offered
the master twenty guineas, Monsieur, if he would teach it me. But because"--he held out his
palms pathetically--"I was right-handed, he would not."

"I am fortunate," Colonel John answered, bowing, and regarding his opponent with kind eyes,
"in being able to requite your good nature. I shall be pleased to teach it you for nothing,
but not now. Gentlemen," he continued, giving up his foil to Lemoine, and removing his mask,
"gentlemen, you will bear me witness, I trust, that I have won the wager?"

Some nodded, some murmured an affirmative, others turned towards Payton, who, too deeply chagrined
to speak, nodded sullenly. How willingly at that moment would he have laid the Colonel dead
at his feet, and Lemoine, and the whole crew, friends and enemies! He gulped something down.
"Oh, d--n you!" he said, "I give it you! Take the mare, she's in the stable!"

At that a brother officer touched his arm, and, disregarding his gesture of impatience, drew
him aside. The intervener seemed to be reminding him of something; and the Colonel, not inattentive,
and indeed suspicious, caught the name "Asgill" twice repeated. But Payton was too angry to
care for minor consequences, or to regard anything but how he might most quickly escape from
the scene of defeat and the eyes of those who had witnessed his downfall. He shook off his
adviser with a rough hand.

"What do I care?" he answered with an oath. "He must shoe his own cattle!" Then, with a poor
show of hiding his spite under a cloak of insouciance, he addressed the Colonel. "The mare
is yours," he said. "You've won her. Much good may she do you!"

And he turned on his heel and went out of the armoury.

CHAPTER VII

BARGAINING

The melancholy which underlies the Celtic temperament finds something congenial in the shadows
that at close of day fall about an old ruin. On fine summer evenings, and sometimes when the
south-wester was hurling sheets of rain from hill to hill, and the birch-trees were bending
low before its blast, Flavia would seek the round tower that stood on the ledge beside the
waterfall. It was as much as half a mile from the house, and the track which scaled the broken
ground to its foot was rough. But from the narrow terrace before the wall the eye not only
commanded the valley in all its length, but embraced above one shoulder a distant view of Brandon
Mountain, and above the other a peep of the Atlantic. Thither, ever since she could remember,
she had carried her dreams and her troubles; there, with the lake stretched below her, and
the house a mere Noah's ark to the eye, she had cooled her hot brow or dried her tears, dwelt
on past glories, or bashfully thought upon the mysterious possibilities of that love, of that
joint life, of that rosy-hued future, to which the most innocent of maidens must sometimes
turn their minds.

It was perhaps because she often sought the tower at sunset, and he had noted the fact, that
Luke Asgill's steps bore him thither on an evening three days after the Colonel's departure
for Tralee. Asgill had remained at Morristown, though the girl had not hidden her distaste
for his presence. But to all her remonstrances The McMurrough had replied, with his usual churlishness,
that the man was there on business--did she want to recover her mare, or did she not? And she
had found nothing more to say. But the most slavish observance on the guest's part, and some
improvement in her brother's conduct--which she might have rightly attributed to Asgill's presence--had
not melted her. She, who had scarcely masked her reluctance to receive a Protestant kinsman,
was not going to smile on a Protestant of Asgill's past and reputation; on a man whose father
had stood hat in hand before her grandfather, and whose wealth had been wrung from the sweat
of his fellow peasants.

Be that as it might, Asgill did not find her at the tower. But he was patient; he thought that
she might still come, and he waited, sitting low, with his back against the ruined wall, that
she might not see him until it was too late for her to retreat. By-and-by he heard footsteps
mounting the path; his face reddened, and he made as if he would rise. Remembering himself,
however, he sat down again, with such a look in his eyes as comes into a dog's when it expects
to be beaten. But the face that rose above the brow was not Flavia's, but her brother's. And
Asgill swore.

The McMurrough understood, grinned, and threw himself on the ground beside him. "You'll be
wishing me in the devil's bowl, I'm thinking," he said. "Yet, faith, I'm not so sure--if you're
not a fool. For it's certain I am, you'll never touch so much as the sole of her foot without me."

"I'm not denying it," the other answered sulkily.

"So it's mighty little use your wishing me away!" The McMurrough continued, stretching himself
at his ease. "You can't get her without me; nor at all, at all, but on my terms! It would be
a fine thing for you, no doubt, if you could sneak round her behind my back! Don't I know you'd
be all for old Sir Michael's will then, and I might die in a gutter, for you! But an egg, and
an egg's fair sharing."

"Have I said it was any other?" Asgill asked gloomily.

"The old place is mine, and I'm minded to keep it."

"And if any other marries her," Asgill said quietly, "he will want her rights."

"Well, and do you think," the younger man answered in his ugliest manner, "that if it weren't
for that small fact, Mister Asgill----"

"And the small fact," Asgill struck in, "that before your grandfather died I lent you a clear
five hundred, and I'm to take that, that's my own already, in quittance of all!"

"Well, and wasn't it that same I'm saying?" The McMurrough retorted. "If it weren't for that,
and the bargain we've struck, d'you think that I'd be letting my sister and a McMurrough look
at the likes of you? No, not in as many Midsummer Days as are between this and world without end!"

The look Asgill shot at him would have made a wiser man tremble. But The McMurrough knew the
strength of his position.

"And if I were to tell her?" Asgill said slowly.

"What?"

"That we've made a bargain about her."

"It's the last strand of hope you'd be breaking, my man," the younger man answered briskly.
"For you'd lose my help, and she'd not believe you--though every priest in Douai backed your word!"

Asgill knew that that was true, and though his face grew dark he changed his tone. "Enough
said," he replied pacifically. "Where'll we be if we quarrel? You want the old place that is
yours by right. And I want--your sister." He swallowed something as he named her; even his
tone was different. "'Tis one and one. That's all."

"And you're the one who wants the most," James replied cunningly. "Asgill, my man, you'd give
your soul for her, I'm thinking."

"I would."

"You would, I believe. By G--d," he continued, with a leer, "you're that fond of her I'll have
to look to her! Hang me, my friend, if I let her be alone with you after this. Safe bind, safe
find. Women and fruit are easily bruised."

Asgill rose slowly to his feet. "You scoundrel!" he said in a low tone. And it was only when
The McMurrough, surprised by his movement, turned to him, that the young man saw that his face
was black with passion--saw, indeed, a face so menacing, that he also sprang to his feet. "You
scoundrel!" Asgill repeated, choking on the words. "If you say a thing like that again--if
you say it again, do you hear?--I'll do you a mischief. Do you hear? Do you hear?"

"What in the saints' names is the matter with you?" The McMurrough faltered.

"You're not fit to breathe the air she breathes!" Asgill continued, with the same ferocity.
"Nor am I! But I know it, thank God! And you don't! Why, man," he continued, still fighting
with the passion that possessed him, "I wouldn't dare to touch the hem of her gown without
her leave! I wouldn't dare to look in her face if she bade me not! She's as safe with me as
if she were an angel in heaven! And you say--you; but you don't understand!"

"Faith and I don't," The McMurrough answered, his tone much lowered. "That's true for you!"
When it came to a collision of wills the other was his master.

"No," Asgill repeated. "But don't you talk like that again, or harm will come of it. I may
be what you say--I may be! But I wouldn't lay a finger on your sister against her will--no,
not to be in Paradise!"

"I thought you didn't believe in Paradise," the younger man muttered sulkily, striving to cover
the check he had received.

"There's a Paradise I do believe in," Asgill answered. "But never mind that." He sat down again.

Strange to relate, he meant what he said. Many changes corrupt loyalty, and of evil times evil
men are the natural fruit. In nearly all respects Asgill was as unscrupulous a man as the time
in which he lived and the class from which he sprang could show. Following in the steps of
a griping, miserly sire, he had risen to his present station by oppression and chicanery; by
crushing the weak and cajoling the strong. And he was prepared to maintain his ground by means
as vile and a hand as hard. But he loved; and--strange anomaly, bizarre exception, call it
what you will--somewhere in the depths of his earthly nature a spark of good survived, and
fired him with so pure an ardour that at the least hint of disrespect to his mistress, at a
thought of injury to her, the whole man rose in arms. It was a strange, yet a common inconsistency;
an inconstancy to evil odd enough to set The McMurrough marvelling, while common enough to
commend itself to a thinking mind.

"Enough of that!" Asgill repeated after a moment's pause. While he did not fear, it did not
suit him to break with his companion. "And, indeed, it was not of your sister I was thinking
when I said where'd we be if we quarrelled. For it's not I'll be the cuckoo to push you out,
McMurrough, lad. But a man there is will play the old grey bird yet, if you let him be. And
him with the power and all."

"D'you mean John Sullivan?"

"I mean that same, my jewel."

The young man laughed derisively. He had resumed his seat by the other's side. "Pho!" he said,
"you'll be jesting. For the power, it's but a name. If he were to use, were it but the thin
end of it, it would run into his hand! The boys would rise upon him, and Flavvy'd be the worst
of them. It's in the deep bog he'd be, before he knew where he was, and never'd he come out,
Luke Asgill! Sure, I'm not afraid of him!"

"You've need to be!" Asgill said soberly.

"Pho! It takes more than him to frighten me! Why, man, he's a soft thing, if ever there was
one! He'll not say boh! to a goose with a pistol in its hand!"

"And that might be, if you weren't such a fool as ye are, McMurrough!" Asgill answered. "No,
but hear me out, lad!" he continued earnestly. "I say he might not harm you, if you had not
the folly we both know of in your mind. But I tell you freely I'll be no bonnet to it while
he stands by. 'Tis too dangerous. Not that I believe you are much in earnest, my lad, whatever
others may think--what's your rightful king to you, or you to him, that you should risk aught?
But whether you go into it out of pure devilment, or just to keep right with your sister----"

"Which is why you stand bonnet for it," McMurrough struck in, with a grin.

"That's possible. But I do that, my lad, because I hope naught may come of it, but just a drinking
of healths and the like. So, why should I play the informer and get myself misliked? But you--you
may find yourself deeper in it than you think, and quicker than you think, while all the time,
if the truth were told"--with a shrewd look at the other--"I believe you've little more heart
for it than myself."

The young man swore a great oath that he was in it body and soul, swore it by the bones of
his ten toes. But he laughed before the words were out of his mouth. And "I don't believe you,"
Asgill said coolly. "You know, and I know, what you were ready to do when the old man was alive,
and if it had paid you properly. And you'd do the same now, if it paid you now. So what are
the wrongs of the old faith to you that you should risk all for them? Or the rights of the
old Irish, for the matter of that? But this being so, and you but half-hearted, I tell you,
it is too dangerous a game to play for groats. And while John Sullivan's here, that makes it
more dangerous, I'll not play bonnet!"

"What'll he know of it, at all, at all?" James McMurrough asked contemptuously. And he took
up a stone and flung it over the edge.

"With a Spanish ship off the coast," Asgill answered, "and you know who likely to land, and
a preaching, may be, next Sunday, and pike-drill at the Carraghalin to follow--man, in three
days you may have smoking roof-trees, and 'twill be too late to cry 'Hold!' Stop, I say, stop
while you can, and before you've all Kerry in a flame!"

James McMurrough turned with a start. His face--but the light was beginning to fail--seemed
a shade paler. "How did you know there was pike-drill?" he cried sharply. "I didn't tell you."

"Hundreds know it."

"But you!" McMurrough retorted. It was plain that he was disagreeably surprised.

"Did you think I meant nothing when I said I played bonnet to it?"

"You know a heap too much, Luke Asgill!"

"And could make a good market of it?" Asgill answered coolly. "That's what you're thinking,
is it? And it's Heaven's truth I could--if you'd not a sister."

"And a care for your own skin."

"Faith," Asgill answered with humorous frankness, "and I'm plain with you, that stands for
something in it. For it's a weary way west of Athlone we are!"

"And the bogs are deep," McMurrough said, with a sidelong look.

"Maybe," Asgill replied, shrugging his shoulders. "But that I've not that in my mind--I'm giving
you proof, James McMurrough. Isn't it I am praying you to draw out of it in time, for all our
sakes? If you mean nothing but to keep sweet with your sister, you're playing with fire, and
so am I! And we'd best see it's not carried too far, as it's like to be before we know it.
But if you are fool enough to be in earnest, which I'll never believe, d'you think to overturn
the Protestant Succession with a few foreigners and a hundred of White-boys that wouldn't stand
before the garrison of Tralee? You've neither money nor men nor powder. Half a dozen broken
captains who must starve if there's no fighting afoot, as many more who've put their souls
in the priests' hands and see with their eyes--these and a few score boys without a coat to
their backs or breeches to their nakedness--d'you think to oust old Malbrouk with these?"

"He's dead!"

"He's not, my jewel; and if he be he's left more of his kidney. No; if you must be a fool,
be a fool with your eyes open! I tell you old Ireland had her lesson thirty years back, and
if you were Sarsfield himself, and called on 'em to rise against the Saxon to-day, you'd not
find as many follow you as would take a sessions town!"

"You know a heap of things, Asgill," James McMurrough answered disdainfully. But he looked
his discomfiture.

"I do. And more by token, I know this!" Asgill retorted. He had risen to depart, and the two
stood with their faces close together. "This!" he repeated, clapping one hand on the other.
"If you're a fool, I'm a bigger! By Heaven, I am! Or what would I be doing? Why, I'd be pressing
you into this, by the Lord, I would, in place of holding you back! And then when the trouble
came, as come it would, and you'd to quit, my lad, and no choice but to make work for the hangman
or beg a crust over seas, and your sister 'd no more left than she stood up in, and small choice
either, it's then she'd be glad to take Luke Asgill, as she'll barely look at now! Ay, my lad,
I'd win her then, if it were but as the price of saving your neck! There's naught she'd not
do for you, and I'd ask but herself."

James McMurrough stared at him, confounded. For Asgill spoke with a bitterness as well as a
vehemence that betrayed how little he cared for the man he addressed--whether he swung or lived,
begged or famished. His tone, his manner, his black look, all made it plain that the scheme
he outlined was no sudden thought, but a plan long conceived, often studied, and put aside
with reluctance. For the listener it was as if, the steam clearing away, he'd a glimpse of
the burning pit of a volcano, on the shelving side of which he stood. He shuddered, and his
countenance changed. A creature of small vanities and small vices, utterly worthless, selfish,
and cruel, but as weak as water, he quailed before this glimpse of elemental passion, before
this view of a soul darker than his own. And it was with a poor affectation of defiance that
he made his answer.

"And what for, if it's as easy as you say, don't you do it?" he stammered.

Asgill groaned. "Because--but there, you wouldn't understand--you wouldn't understand! Still,
if you must be knowing, there's ways of winning would be worse than losing!"

The McMurrough's confidence began to return. "You're grown scrupulous," he sneered, half in
jest, half in earnest.

Asgill's answer flung him down again. "You may thank your God I am!" he replied, with a look
that scorched the other.

"Well--well," McMurrough made an effort to mutter--he was thoroughly disconcerted--"at any
rate, I'm obliged to you for your warning."

"You will be obliged to me," Asgill replied, resuming his ordinary manner, "if you take my
warning, as to the big matter; and also as to your kinsman, John Sullivan. For, I tell you,
I'm afraid of him."

"Of him?" James cried.

"Ay, of him. Have a care, have a care, man, or he'll out-general you. See if he doesn't poison
your sister against you! See if he does not make this hearth too hot for you! As long as he's
in the house there's danger. I know the sort," Asgill continued shrewdly, "and little by little,
you'll see, he'll get possession of her--and it's weak is your position as it is, my lad."

"Pho!"

"'Tis not 'pho'! And in a week you'll know it, and be as glad to see his back as I should be
to-day!"

"What, a man who has not the spirit to go out with a gentleman!"

"A man you mean," Asgill retorted, showing his greater shrewdness, "who has the spirit to say
that he won't go out!"

"Sure, and I've not much opinion of a man of that kind," McMurrough exclaimed.

"I have. He'll stand, or I'm mistaken, for more than'll spoil your sport--and mine," Asgill
replied. "I'd not have played the trick about your sister's mare, good trick as it was, if
I'd known he'd be here. It seemed the height of invention when you hit upon it, and no better
way of commending myself. But I misdoubt it now. Suppose this Colonel brings her back?"

"But Payton's staunch."

"Ah, I hold Payton, sure enough," Asgill answered, "in the hollow of my hand, James McMurrough.
But there's accident, and there's what not, and if in place of my restoring the mare to your
sister, John Sullivan restored her--faith, my lad, I'd be laughing on the other side of my
face. And if he told what I'll be bound he knows of you, it would not suit you either!"

"It would not," The McMurrough replied, with an ugly look which the gloaming failed to mask.
"It would not. But there's small chance of that."

"Things happen," Asgill answered in a sombre tone. "Faith, my lad, the man's a danger. D'you
consider," he continued, his voice low, "that he's owner of all--in law; and if he said the
word, devil a penny there'd be for you! And no marriage for your sister but with his good will.
And if Morristown stood as far east of Tralee as it stands west--glory be to God for it!--I'm
thinking he'd say that word, and there'd be no penny for you, and no marriage for her, but
you'd both be hat in hand to him!"

McMurrough's face showed a shade paler through the dusk.

"What would you have me do?" he muttered.

"Quit this fooling, this plan of a rising, and give him no handle. That, any way."

"But that won't rid us of him?" McMurrough said, in a low voice.

"True for you. And I'll be thinking about that same. If it is to be done, it's best done soon--I'm
with you there. He's no footing yet, and if he vanished 'twould be no more than if he'd never
come. See the light below? There! It's gone. Well, that way he'd go, and little more talk,
if 'twere well plotted."

"But how?" The McMurrough asked nervously.

"I will consider," Asgill answered.

CHAPTER VIII

AN AFTER-DINNER GAME

Easiness, the failing of the old-world Irishman, had been Uncle Ulick's bane through life.
It was easiness which had induced him to condone a baseness in his nephew which he would have
been the first to condemn in a stranger. And again it was easiness which had beguiled him into
standing idle while the brother's influence was creeping like strangling ivy over the girl's
generous nature; while her best instincts were being withered by ridicule, her generosity abused
by meanness, and her sense of right blunted by such acts of lawlessness as the seizure of the
smuggling vessel. He feared, if he did not know, that things were going ill. He saw the blighting
shadow of Asgill begin to darken the scene. He believed that The McMurrough, unable to raise
money on the estate--since he had no title--was passing under Asgill's control. And still he
had not raised his voice.

But, above all, it was easiness which had induced Uncle Ulick to countenance in Flavia those
romantic notions, now fast developing into full-blown plans, which he, who had seen the world
in his youth, should have blasted; which he, who could recall the humiliation of Boyne Water
and the horrors of '90, he, who knew somewhat, if only a little, of the strength of England
and the weakness of Ireland, should have been the first to nip in the bud.

He had not nipped them. Instead, he had allowed the reckless patriotism of the young O'Beirnes,
the predatory instincts of O'Sullivan Og, the simulated enthusiasm--for simulated he knew it
to be--of the young McMurrough to guide the politics of the house and to bring it to the verge
of a crisis. The younger generation and their kin, the Sullivans, the Mahoneys, the O'Beirnes,
bred in this remote corner, leading a wild and almost barbarous life, deriving such sparks
of culture as reached them from foreign sources and through channels wilder than their life,
were no judges of their own weakness or of the power opposed to them. But he was. He knew,
and had known, that it became him, as the Nestor of the party, to point out the folly of their
plans. Instead, he had bowed to the prevailing feeling. For--be it his excuse--he, too, was
Irish! He, too, felt his heart too large for his bosom when he dwelt on his country's wrongs.
On him, too, though he knew that successful rebellion was out of the question, Flavia's generous
indignation, her youth, her enthusiasm, wrought powerfully. And at times, in moments of irritation,
he, too, saw red, and dreamed of a last struggle for freedom.

At this point, at a moment when the crisis, grown visible, could no longer be masked, had arrived
John Sullivan, a man of experience. His very aspect sobered Uncle Ulick's mind. The latter
saw that only a blacker and more hopeless night could follow the day of vengeance of which
he dreamt; and he sat this evening--while Asgill talked on the hill with The McMurrough--he
sat this evening by the light of the peat-fire, and was sore troubled. Was it, or was it not,
too late? He occupied the great chair in which Sir Michael had so often conned his Scudery
of winter evenings; but though he filled the chair, he knew that he had neither the will nor
the mastery of its old owner. If it had not passed already, the thing might easily pass beyond
his staying. Meanwhile, Flavia sat on a stool on the farther side of the blaze--until supper
was on the board they used no other light--brooding bitterly over the loss of her mare; and
he knew that that incident would not make things more easy. For here was tyranny brought to
an every-day level; oppression that pricked to the quick! The Saxons, who had risen for a mere
poundage against their anointed king, did not scruple to make slaves, ay, real slaves, of a
sister and a more ancient people! But the cup was full and running over, and they should rue
it! A short day and they would find opposed to them the wrath, the fury, the despair of a united
people and an ancient faith. Something like this Flavia had been saying to him.

Then silence had fallen. And now he made answer.

"I'm low at heart about it, none the less," he said. "War, my girl, is a very dreadful thing."
He had in his mind the words Colonel John had used to him on that subject.

"And what is slavery?" she replied. There were red spots in her cheeks, and her eyes shone.

"But if the yoke be made heavier, my jewel, and not lighter?"

"Then let us die!" she answered. "Let there be an end! For it is time. But let us die free!
As it is, do we not blush to own that we are Irish? Is not our race the handmaid among nations?
Then let us die! What have we to live for? Our souls they will not leave us, our bodies they
enslave, they take our goods! What is left, Uncle Ulick?" she continued passionately.

"Just to endure," he said sadly, "till better times. Or what if we make things worse? Believe
me, Flavvy, the last rising----"

"Rising!" she cried. "Rising! Why do you call it that? It was no rising! It was the English
who rose, and we who remained faithful to our king. It was they who betrayed, and we who paid
the penalty for treason! Rising!"

"Call it what you like, my dear," he answered patiently, "'tis not forgotten."

"Nor forgiven!" she cried fiercely.

"True! But the spirit is broken in us. If it were not, we should have risen three years back,
when the Scotch rose. There was a chance then. But for us by ourselves there is no chance and
no hope. And in this little corner what do we know or hear? God forgive us, 'tis only what
comes from France and Spain by the free-traders that we'll be hearing."

"Uncle Ulick!" she answered, looking fixedly at him, "I know where you get that from! I know
who has been talking to you, and who"--her voice trembled with anger--"has upset the house!
It's meet that one who has left the faith of his fathers, and turned his back on his country
in her trouble--it is well that he should try to make others act as he has acted, and be false
as he has been false! Caring for nothing himself, cold, and heartless----"

He was about to interrupt her, but on the word the door opened and her brother and Asgill entered,
shaking the moisture from their coats. It had begun to rain as they returned along the edge
of the lake. She dashed the tears from her eyes and was silent.

"Sure, and you've got a fine colour, my girl," The McMurrough said. "Any news of the mare?"
he continued, as he took the middle of the hearth and spread his skirts to the blaze, Asgill
remaining in the background. Then, as she shook her head despondently--the presence of Asgill
had driven her into herself--"Bet you a hundred crowns to one, Asgill," he said, with a grin,
"cousin Sullivan don't recover her!"

"I couldn't afford to take it," Asgill answered, smiling. "But if Miss Flavia had chosen me
for her ambassador in place of him that's gone----"

"She might have had a better, and couldn't have had a worse!" James said, with a loud laugh.
"It's supper-time," he continued, after he had turned to the fire, and kicked the turfs together,
"and late, too! Where's Darby? There's never anything but waiting in this house. I suppose
you are not waiting for the mare? If you are, it's empty insides we'll all be having for a
week of weeks."

"I'm much afraid of that," Uncle Ulick answered, as the girl rose. Uncle Ulick could never
do anything but fall in with the prevailing humour.

Flavia paused half-way across the floor and listened. "What's that?" she asked, raising her
hand for silence. "Didn't you hear something? I thought I heard a horse."

"You didn't hear a mare," her brother retorted, grinning. "In the meantime, miss, I'd be having
you know we're hungry. And----"

He stopped, startled by a knock on the door. The girl hesitated, then she stepped to it, and
threw it wide. Confronting her across the threshold, looking ghostly against the dark background
of the night, a grey horse threw up its head and, dazzled by the light, started back a pace--then
blithered gently. In a twinkling, before the men had grasped the truth, Flavia had sprung across
the threshold, her arms were round her favourite's neck, she was covering its soft muzzle with
kisses.

"The saints defend us!" Uncle Ulick cried. "It is the mare!"

In his surprise The McMurrough forgot himself, his rôle, the company. "D--n!" he said. Fortunately
Uncle Ulick was engrossed in the scene at the door, and the girl was outside. Neither heard.

Asgill's mortification, as may be believed, was a hundred times deeper. But his quicker brain
had taken in the thing and its consequences on the instant. And he stood silent.

"She's found her way back!" The McMurrough exclaimed, recovering himself.

"Ay, lad, that must be it," Uncle Ulick replied. "She's got loose and found her way back to
her stable, heaven be her bed! And them that took her are worse by the loss of five pounds!"

"Broken necks to them!" The McMurrough cried viciously.

But at that moment the door, which led to the back of the house and the offices, opened, and
Colonel John stepped in, a smile on his face. He laid his damp cloak on a bench, hung up his
hat and whip, and nodded to Ulick.

"The Lord save us! is it you've brought her back?" the big man exclaimed.

The Colonel nodded. "I thought"--he looked towards the open door--"it would please her to find
the creature so!"

The McMurrough stood speechless with mortification. It was Asgill who stepped forward and spoke.
"I give you joy, Colonel Sullivan," he said. "It is small chance I thought you had."

"I can believe you," the Colonel answered quietly. If he did not know much he suspected a good
deal.

Before more could be said Flavia McMurrough turned herself about and came in and saw Colonel
Sullivan. Her face flamed hotly, as the words which she had just used about him recurred to
her; she could almost have wished the mare away again, if the obligation went with her. To
owe the mare to him! Yes, she would have preferred to lose the mare!

But the thing was done, and she found words at last; but cold words. "I am very much obliged
to you," she said, "if it was really you who brought her back."

"It was I who brought her back," he answered quietly, hurt by her words and manner, but hiding
the hurt. "You need not thank me, however; I did it very willingly."

She felt the meanness of her attitude, and "I do thank you!" she said, straining at warmth,
but with poor success. "I am very grateful to you, Colonel Sullivan, for the service you have
done me."

"And wish another had done it!" he answered, with the faintest tinge of reproach in his voice.
It was a slip from his usual platform, but he could not deny himself.

"No! But that you would serve another as effectively," she responded.

He did not see her drift. And "What other?" he asked.

"Your country," she replied. And, turning to the door again, she went out into the night, to
see that the mare was safely disposed.

The four men looked at one another, and Uncle Ulick shrugged his shoulders, as much as to say,
"We all know what women are!" Then feeling a storm in the air, he spoke for the sake of speaking.
"Well, James," he said, "she's got her mare, and you've lost your wager. It's good-bye to the
brandy, anyway. And, faith, it'll be good news for the little French captain. For you, John
Sullivan, I give you joy. You'll amend us all at this rate, and make Kerry as peaceable as
the Four Courts out of term time! Sure, and I begin to think you're one of the Little People!"
As he spoke he slapped Colonel John on the shoulders.

"About the brandy," The McMurrough said curtly. "Things are by way of being changed, I'd have
you know. And I'm not going to forgo a good ship----"

"No, no, a bet's a bet," Uncle Ulick interposed hurriedly. "Mr. Asgill was here, and----"

"I'm with you," Asgill said. "Colonel Sullivan's won the right to have his way, and it's better
so too, and safer. Faith and I'm glad," he continued cordially, "for there might have been
trouble, and now there'll be none!"

"Well, it's not I'll tell O'Sullivan Og," James McMurrough retorted. "It's little he'll like
to give up the stuff, and, in my opinion," he added sullenly, "there's more than us will have
a word to say to it before it's given up. But you can judge of that for yourselves."

"Mr. Crosby, of Castlemaine----"

"Oh, d--n! It's little he'll count in a week from this!"

"Still, I've no doubt Colonel Sullivan will arrange it," Asgill answered smoothly. It was evident
that he thought The McMurrough was saying too much. "Sure he's managed a harder thing."

There was a gleam in his eye and a something sinister in the tone as he said it; but the words
were hearty, and Colonel John made no demur. And Darby, entering at that moment with a pair
of lights in tall candlesticks--which were silver, but might have been copper--caused a welcome
interruption. A couple of footboys, with slipshod feet and bare ankles, bore in the meats after
him and slapped them down on the table; at the same moment the O'Beirnes and two or three more
of the "family" entered from the back. Their coming lightened the air. They had to hear the
news, and pass their opinion upon it. Questions were asked: Where'd the Colonel light on the
cratur, and how'd he persuaded the Protestant rogues--ah, be jabbers, begging his honour's
pardon entirely!--how'd he persuaded the rogues to give her up? Colonel John refused to say,
but laughingly. The O'Beirnes and the others were in a good humour, pleased that the young
mistress had recovered her favourite, and inclined to look more leniently on the Colonel. "Faith,
and it's clear that you're a Sullivan!" quoth one. "There's none like them to put the comether
on man and beast!"

This was not much to the taste of The McMurrough or of Asgill, who, inwardly raging, saw the
interloper founding a reputation on the ruse which they had devised for another end. It was
abruptly and with an ill grace that the master of the house cut short the scene and bade all
sit down if they wanted their meat.

"What are we waiting for?" he continued querulously. "Where's the girl? Stop your jabbering,
Martin! And Phelim----"

"Sure, I believe the mare's got from her," Uncle Ulick cried. "I heard a horse, no farther
back than this moment."

"I'm wishing all horses in Purgatory," The McMurrough replied angrily. "And fools too! Where's
the wench gone? Anyway, I'm beginning. You can bide her time if you like!"

And begin he did. The others, after looking expectantly at the door--for none dared treat Flavia
as her brother treated her--and after Asgill had said something about waiting for her, fell
to also, one by one. Presently the younger of the slipshod footboys let fall a dish--fortunately
the whole service was of pewter, so no harm was done--and was cursed for awkwardness. Where
was Darby? He also had vanished.

The claret began to go round in the old Spanish silver jug--for no house in the west lacked
Bordeaux in those days; it was called in London coffee-houses Irish wine. Still, neither Flavia
nor the butler returned, and many were the glances cast at the door. By-and-by the Colonel--who
felt that a cloud hung over the board, as over his own spirits--saw, or fancied that he saw,
an odd thing. The door--that which led to the back of the house--opened, as if the draught
moved it; it remained open a space, then in a silent, ghostly fashion it fell-to again. The
Colonel laid down his knife, and Uncle Ulick, whose eyes had followed his, crossed himself.
"That's not lucky," the big man said, his face troubled. "The saints send it's not the white
horse of the O'Donoghues has whisked her off!"

"Don't be for saying such unchancy things, Mr. Sullivan!" Phelim answered, with a shiver. And
he, too, crossed himself. "What was it, at all, at all?"

"The door opened without a hand," Uncle Ulick explained. "I'm fearing there's something amiss."

"Not with this salmon," James McMurrough struck in contemptuously. "Eat your supper and leave
those tales to the women!"

Uncle Ulick made no reply, and a moment later Darby entered, slid round the table to Uncle
Ulick's side, and touched his shoulder. Whether he whispered a word or not Colonel John did
not observe, but forthwith the big man rose and went out.

This time it was James McMurrough who laid down his knife. "What in the name of the Evil One
is it?" he cried, in a temper. "Can't a man eat his meat in peace, but all the world must be
tramping the floor?"

"Oh, whisht! whisht!" Darby muttered, in a peculiar tone.

James leapt up. He was too angry to take a hint. "You old fool!" he cried, heedless of Asgill's
hand, which was plucking at his skirts. "What is it? What do you mean with your 'whishts' and
your nods? What----"

But the old butler had turned his back on his master, and gone out in a panic. Fortunately
at this moment Flavia showed at the door. "The fault's mine, James," she said, in a clear,
loud tone. And the Colonel saw that her colour was high and her eyes were dancing. "I couldn't
bear to leave her at once, the darling! That was it; and besides, I took a fear----"

"The pastern's right enough," Uncle Ulick struck in, entering behind her and closing the door
with the air of a big man who does not mean to be trifled with. "Sound as your own light foot,
my jewel, and sounder than James's head! Be easy, be easy, lad," he continued, with a trifle
of sternness. "Sure, you're spoiling other men's meat, and forgetting the Colonel's present,
not to speak of Mr. Asgill, that, being a Justice, is not used to our Kerry tantrums!"

Possibly this last was a hint, cunningly veiled. At any rate, The McMurrough took his seat
again with a better grace than usual, and Asgill made haste to take up the talk. The Colonel
reflected; nor did he find it the least odd thing that Flavia, who had been so full of distress
at the loss of her mare, said little of the rescuer's adventures, nor much of the mare herself.
Yet the girl's eyes sparkled, and her whole aspect was changed in the last hour. She seemed,
as far as he could judge, to be in a state of the utmost excitement; she had shaken off the
timidity which her brother's temper too often imposed on her, and with it her reticence and
her shyness before strangers. All the Irish humour in her fluttered to the surface, and her
tongue ran with an incredible gaiety. Uncle Ulick, the O'Beirnes, the buckeens, laughed frank
admiration--sometimes at remarks which the Colonel could not understand, sometimes at more
obvious witticisms. Asgill was her slave. Darby, with the familiarity of the old servant, chuckled
openly and rubbed his hands at her sallies; the footboys guffawed in corners, and more than
one dish rolled on the floor without drawing down a rebuke. Even her brother regarded her with
unwilling amusement, and did not always refrain from applause.

Could all this, could the change in her spring from the recovery of the mare, of which she
said scarce a word? Colonel John could hardly believe it; and, indeed, if such were the case,
she was ungrateful. For, for the recoverer of her favourite she had no words, and scarce a
look. Rather, it seemed to him that there must be two Flavias: the one shy, modest, and, where
her country was not assailed, of a reserve beyond reproach; the other Flavia, a shoot of the
old tree, a hoyden, a castback to Sir Michael's wild youth and the gay days of the Restoration
Court.

He listened to her drollery, her ringing laugh, her arch sayings with some blame, but more
admiration. After all, what had he a right to expect in this remote corner of the land, cut
off by twenty leagues of bog and mountain from modern refinement, culture, thought, in this
old tribal house, the last refuge of a proscribed faith and a hated race? Surely, no more than
he found--nay, not a tithe of that he found. For, listening with a kindlier heart--even he,
hurt by her neglect, had judged her for a while too harshly--he discerned that at her wildest
and loudest, in the act of bandying cryptic jests with the buckeens, and uttering much that
was thoughtless--Flavia did not suffer one light or unmaidenly word to pass her lips.

He gave her credit for that; and in the act he learned, with a reflection on his stupidity,
that there was method in her madness; ay, and meaning--but he had not hitherto held the key
to it--in her jests. On a sudden--he saw now that this was the climax to which she had been
leading up--she sprang to her feet, carried away by her excitement. Erect, defiant--nay, triumphant--she
flung her handkerchief into the middle of the table, strewn as it was with a medley of glasses
and flasks and disordered dishes.

"Who loves me, follows me!" she cried, a queer exultation in her tone--"across the water!"

They pounced on the kerchief, like dogs let loose from the leash--every man but the astonished
Colonel. For an instant the place was a pandemonium, a Babel. In a twinkling the kerchief was
torn, amid cries of the wildest enthusiasm, into as many fragments as there were men round
the table.

"All!--all!" she cried, still standing erect, and hounding them on with the magic of her voice,
while her beautiful face blazed with excitement. "All--but you?"--with which, for the briefest
space, she turned to Colonel John. Her eyes met his. They asked him a defiant question: they
challenged the answer.

"I do not understand," he replied, taken by surprise. But indeed he did understand only too
well. "Is it a game?"

The men were pinning the white shreds on their coats above their hearts--even her brother,
obedient for once. But at that word they turned as one man to him, turned flushed, frowning
faces and passionate eyes on him. But Flavia was before them; excitement had carried her farther
than she had meant to go, yet prudence had not quite left her. "Yes, a game!" she cried, laughing,
a note too high. "Don't you know the Lady's Kerchief?"

"No," he said soberly; he was even a little out of countenance.

"Then no more of it," Uncle Ulick cried, interposing, with a ring of authority in his voice.
"For my part, I'm for bed. Bed! We're all children, bedad, and as fond of a frolic! And I'm
thinking I'm the worst. The lights, Darby, the lights, and pleasant dreams to you! After all--

    The spoke that is to-day on top,
      To-morrow's on the ground.

Sure, and I'll swear that's true!"

"And no treason!" The McMurrough answered him, with a grin. "Eh, Asgill?"

And so between them they removed Colonel John's last doubt--if he had one.

CHAPTER IX

EARLY RISERS

Colonel Sullivan had returned from Tralee in high spirits. He had succeeded beyond his hopes
in the task he had set himself to perform, and he counted with confidence on gaining by that
means a sound footing and a firm influence in the house. But as he sat in his room that evening,
staring at the rushlight, with the night silent about him, he feared, nay, he almost knew,
that his success came too late. Something had happened behind his back, some crisis, some event;
and that which he had done was as if it were undone, and that which he had gained availed nothing.

It was plain--whatever was obscure--that the play of the Lady's Kerchief was a cover for matter
more serious. Those who had taken part in it had scarcely deigned to pretend. Colonel John
had been duller than the dullest if he had not seen in the white shreds for which the men had
scrambled, and which they had affixed with passion to their coats, the white Cockade of the
Pretender; or found in Uncle Ulick's couplet--uttered while in a careless fashion he affected
disguise,

    The spoke that is to-day on top,
      To-morrow's on the ground,

one of those catchwords which suited the taste of the day, and served at once for a passport
and a sentiment.

But Colonel John knew that many a word was said over the claret which meant less than nothing
next morning; and that many a fair hand passed the wine across the water-bowl--the very movement
did honour to a shapely arm--without its owner having the least intention of endangering those
she loved for the sake of the King across the Water. He knew that a fallen cause has ever two
sets of devotees--those who talk and those who act: the many, in other words, who sing the
songs and drink the toasts, and delight in the badges of treason--in the sucked orange, the
sprig of oak, the knot of white ribbon, the fir-planting; and the few who mean more than they
say, who mean, and sternly, to be presently the Spoke on Top.

Consequently he knew that he might be wrong in dotting the i's and crossing the t's of the
scene which he had witnessed. Such a scene might mean no more than a burst of high spirits:
in nine cases out of ten it would not be followed by action, nor import more than that singing
of "'Twas a' for our rightful King!" which had startled him on his arrival. In that house,
in the wilds of Kerry, sheer loyalty could not be expected. The wrongs of the nation were too
recent, the high seas were too near, the wild geese came and went too freely--wild geese of
another feather than his. Such outbursts as he had witnessed were no more than the safety-valves
of outraged pride. The ease with which England had put down the Scotch rising a few years before--to
say nothing of the fate of those who had taken part in it--must deter all reasonable men, whatever
their race or creed, from entering on an undertaking beyond doubt more hopeless.

For Ireland was not as Scotland. Scarcely a generation had passed since she had felt the full
weight of the conqueror's hand; and if she possessed, in place of the Highland mountains, vast
stretches of uncharted bog and lake, to say nothing of a thousand obscure inlets, she had neither
the unbroken clan-feeling nor the unbroken national spirit of the sister country. Scotland
was still homogeneous, she still counted for a kingdom, her soil was still owned by her own
lords and worked by her own peasants. She had suffered no massacre of Drogheda or of Wexford;
no Boyne, no Aghrim, no vast and repeated confiscations. Whereas Ireland, a partitioned and
subject land, which had suffered during the last two centuries horrors unspeakable, still cowered
like a whipped dog before its master, and was as little likely to rebel.

Colonel John leant upon such arguments; and, disappointed and alarmed as he was by Flavia's
behaviour, he told himself that nothing was seriously meant, and that with the morning light
things would look more cheerful.

But when he awoke, after a feverish and disturbed sleep, the faint grisly dawn that entered
the room was not of a character to inspirit. He turned on his side to sleep again if he could;
but in the act, he discovered that the curtain which he had drawn across the window was withdrawn.
He could discern the dark mass of his clothes piled on a chair, of his hat clinging like some
black bat to the whitewashed wall, of his valise and saddle-bags in the corner--finally of
a stout figure bent, listening, at the door.

An old campaigner, Colonel John was not easily surprised. Repressing the exclamation on his
lips, he rose to his elbow and waited until the figure at the door straightened itself, and,
turning towards him, became recognisable as Uncle Ulick. The big man crossed the floor, saw
that he was awake, and, finger on lip, enjoined silence. Then he pointed to the clothes on
the chair, and brought his mouth near the Colonel's ear.

"The back-door!" he whispered. "Under the yews in the garden! Come!" And leaving the Colonel
staring and mystified, he crept from the room with a stealth and lightness remarkable in one
so big. The door closed, the latch fell, and made no sound.

Colonel John reflected that Uncle Ulick was no romantic young person to play at mystery for
effect. There was a call for secrecy therefore. The O'Beirnes slept in a room divided from
his only by a thin partition; and to gain the stairs he must pass the doors of other chambers,
all inhabited. As softly as he could, and as quickly, he dressed himself. He took his boots
in his hand; his sword, perhaps from old habit, under his other arm; in this guise he crept
from the room and down the dusky staircase. Old Darby and an underling were snoring in the
cub, which in the daytime passed for a pantry, and both by day and night gave forth a smell
of sour corks and mice: but Colonel John slid by the open door as noiselessly as a shadow,
found the back-door--which led to the fold-yard--on the latch, and stepped out into the cool,
dark morning, into the sobering freshness and the clean, rain-washed air.

The grass was still grey-hued, the world still colourless and mysterious, the house a long
black bulk against a slowly lightening sky. Only the earliest sparrows were twittering; in
the trees only the most wakeful rooks were uttering tentative caws. The outburst of joy and
life and music which would attend the sun's rising was not yet.

Colonel John paused on the doorstep to draw on his boots, then he picked his way delicately
to the leather-hung wicket that broke the hedge which served for a fence to the garden. On
the right of the wicket a row of tall Florence yews, set within the hedge, screened the pleasaunce,
such as it was, from the house. Under the lee of these he found Uncle Ulick striding to and
fro and biting his finger-nails in his impatience.

He wrung the Colonel's hand and looked into his face. "You'll do me the justice, John Sullivan,"
he said, with a touch of passion, "that never in my life have I been overhasty? Eh? Will you
do me that?"

"Certainly, Ulick," Colonel John answered, wondering much what was coming.

"And that I'm no coward, where it's not a question of trouble?"

"I'll do you that justice, too," the Colonel answered. He smiled at the reservation.

The big man did not smile. "Then you'll take my word for it," he replied, "that I'm not speaking
idly when I say you must go."

Colonel John lifted his eyebrows. "Go?" he answered. "Do you mean now?"

"Ay, now, or before noon!" Uncle Ulick retorted. "More by token," he continued with bitterness,
"it's not that you might go on the instant that I've brought you out of our own house as if
we were a couple of rapparees or horse-thieves, but that you might hear it from me who wish
you well, and would warn you not to say nay--instead of from those who may be 'll not put it
so kindly, nor be so wishful for you to be taking the warning they give."

"Is it Flavia you're meaning?"

"No; and don't you be thinking it," Uncle Ulick replied with a touch of heat. "Nor the least
bit of it, John Sullivan! The girl, God bless her, is as honest as the day, if----"

"If she's not very wise!" Colonel John said, smiling.

"You may put it that way if you please. For the matter of that, you'll be thinking she's not
the only fool at Morristown, nor the oldest, nor the biggest. And you'll be right, more shame
to me that I didn't use the prudent tongue to them always, and they young! But the blood must
run slow, and the breast be cold, that sees the way the Saxons are mocking us, and locks the
tongue in silence. And sure, there's no more to be said, but just this--that there's those
here you'll be wise not to see! And you'll get a hint to that end before the sun's high."

"And you'd have me take it?"

"You'd be mad not to take it!" Uncle Ulick replied, frowning. "Isn't it for that I'm out of
my warm bed, and the mist not off the lake?"

"You'd have me give way to them and go?"

"Faith, and I would!"

"Would you do that same yourself, Ulick?"

"For certain."

"And be sorry for it afterwards!"

"Not the least taste in life!" Uncle Ulick asseverated.

"And be sorry for it afterwards," Colonel John repeated quietly. "Kinsman, come here," he continued
with unusual gravity. And taking Uncle Ulick by the arm he led him to the end of the garden,
where the walk looked on the lake and bore some likeness to a roughly made terrace. Pausing
where the black masses of the Florence yews, most funereal of trees, still sheltered their
forms from the house, he stood silent. The mist moved slowly on the surface of the water and
crawled about their feet. But the sky to eastward was growing red, the lower clouds were flushed
with rose-colour, the higher hills were warm with the coming of the sun. Here and there on
the slopes which faced them a cotter's hovel stood solitary in its potato patch or its plot
of oats. In more than one place three or four cottages made up a tiny hamlet, from which the
smoke would presently rise. To English eyes, to our eyes, the scene, these oases in the limitless
brown of the bog, had been wild and rude; but to Colonel John, long familiar with the treeless
plains of Poland and the frozen flats of Lithuania, it spoke of home, it spoke of peace and
safety and comfort, and even of a narrow plenty. The soft Irish air lapped it, the distances
were mellow, memories of boyhood rounded off all that was unsightly or cold.

He pointed here and there with his hand; and with seeming irrelevance. "You'd be sorry afterwards,"
he said, "for you'd think of this, Ulick. God forbid that I should say there are no things
for which even this should be sacrificed. God forbid I should deny that even for this too high
a price may be paid. But if you play this away in wantonness--if that which you are all planning
come about, and you fail, as they failed in Scotland three years back, and as you will, as
you must fail here--it is of this, it is of the women and the children under these roofs that
will go up in smoke, that you'll be thinking, Ulick, at the last! Believe me or not, this is
the last thing you'll see! It's to a burden as well as an honour you're born where men doff
caps to you; and it's that burden will lie the black weight on your soul at the last. There's
old Darby and O'Sullivan Og's wife--and Pat Mahony and Judy Mahony's four sons--and Mick Sullivan
and Tim and Luke the Lamiter--and the three Sullivans at the landing, and Phil the crowder,
and the seven tenants at Killabogue--it's of them, it's of them"--as he spoke his finger moved
from hovel to hovel--"and their like I'm thinking. You cry them and they follow, for they're
your folks born. But what do they know of England or England's strength, or what is against
them, or the certain end? They think, poor souls, because they land their spirits and pay no
dues, and the Justices look the other way, and a bailiffs life here, if he'd a writ, would
be no more worth than a woodcock's, and the laws, bad and good, go for naught--they think the
black Protestants are afraid of them! While you and I, you and I know, Ulick," he continued,
dropping his voice, "'tis because we lie so poor and distant and small, they give no heed to
us! We know! And that's our burden."

The big man's face worked. He threw out his arms. "God help us!" he cried.

"He will, in His day! I tell you again, as I told you the hour I came, I, who have followed
the wars for twenty years, there is no deed that has not its reward when the time is ripe,
nor a cold hearth that is not paid for a hundredfold!"

Uncle Ulick looked sombrely over the lake. "I shall never see it," he said. "Never, never!
And that's hard. Notwithstanding, I'll do what I can to quiet them--if it be not too late."

"Too late?"

"Ay, too late, John. But anyway, I'll be minding what you say. On the other hand, you must
go, and this very day that ever is."

"There are some here that I must not be seeing?" Colonel John said shrewdly.

"That's it."

"And if I do not go, Ulick? What then, man?"

"Whisht! Whisht!" the big man cried in unmistakable distress. "Don't say the word! Don't say
the word, John, dear."

"But I must say it," Colonel John answered, smiling. "To be plain, Ulick, here I am and here
I stay. They wish me gone because I am in the way of their plans. Well, and can you give me
a better reason for staying?"

What argument Ulick would have used, what he was opening his mouth to say, remains unknown.
Before he could reply the murmur of a voice near at hand startled them both. Uncle Ulick's
face fell, and the two turned with a single movement to see who came.

They discerned, in the shadow of the wall of yew, two men, who had just passed through the
wicket into the garden.

The strangers saw them at the same moment, and were equally taken by surprise. The foremost
of the two, a sturdy, weather-beaten man, with a square, stern face and a look of power, laid
his hand on his cutlass--he wore a broad blade in place of the usual rapier. The other, whom
every line of his shaven face, as well as his dress, proclaimed a priest--and perhaps more
than a priest--crossed himself, and muttered something to his companion. Then he came forward.

"You take the air early, gentlemen," he said, the French accent very plain in his speech, "as
we do. If I mistake not," he continued, looking with an easy smile at Colonel John, "your Protestant
kinsman, of whom you told me, Mr. Sullivan? I did not look to meet you, Colonel Sullivan; but
I do not doubt you are man of the world enough to excuse, if you cannot approve, the presence
of the shepherd among his sheep. The law forbids, but----" still smiling, he finished the sentence
with a gesture in the air.

"I approve all men," Colonel John answered quietly, "who are in their duty, father."

"But wool and wine that pay no duty?" the priest replied, turning with a humorous look to his
companion, who stood beside him unsmiling. "I'm not sure that Colonel Sullivan extends the
same indulgence to free-traders, Captain Machin."

Colonel John looked closely at the man thus brought to his notice. Then he raised his hat courteously.
"Sir," he said, "the guests of the Sullivans, whoever they be, are sacred to the Sullivans."

Uncle Ulick's eyes had met the priest's, as eyes meet in a moment of suspense. At this he drew
a deep breath of relief. "Well said," he muttered. "Bedad, it is something to have seen the world!"

"You have served under the King of Sweden, I believe?" the ecclesiastic continued, addressing
Colonel John with a polite air. He held a book of offices in his hand, as if his purpose in
the garden had been merely to read the service.

"Yes."

"A great school of war, I am told?"

"It may be called so. But I interrupt you, father, and with your permission I will bid you
good-morning. Doubtless we shall meet again."

"At breakfast, I trust," the ecclesiastic answered, with a certain air of intention. Then he
bowed and they returned it, and the two pairs gave place to one another with ceremony, Colonel
John and Ulick passing out through the garden wicket, while the strangers moved on towards
the walk which looked over the lake. Here they began to pace up and down.

With his hand on the house door Uncle Ulick made a last attempt. "For God's sake, be easy and
go," he muttered, his voice unsteady, his eyes fixed on the other's, as if he would read his
mind. "Leave us to our fate! You cannot save us--you see what you see, you know what it means.
And for what I know, you know the man. You'll but make our end the blacker."

"And the girl?"

Uncle Ulick tossed his hands in the air. "God help her!" he said.

"Shall not we too help her?"

"We cannot."

"It may be. Still, let us do our duty," Colonel John replied. He was very grave. Things were
worse, the plot was thicker, than he had feared.

Uncle Ulick groaned. "You'll not be bidden?" he said.

"Not by an angel," Colonel John answered steadfastly. "And I've seen none this morning, but
only a good man whose one fault in life is to answer to all men 'Sure, and I will!'"

Uncle Ulick started as if the words stung him. "You make a jest of it!" he said. "Heaven send
we do not sorrow for your wilfulness. For my part, I've small hope of that same." He opened
the door, and, turning his back upon his companion, went heavily, and without any attempt at
concealment, past the pantry and up the stairs to his room. Colonel John heard him slip the
bolt, and, bearing a heavy heart himself, he knew that the big man was gone to his prayers.

To answer "Yes" to all comers and all demands is doubtless, in the language of Uncle Ulick,
a mighty convenience, and a great softener of the angles of life. But a time comes to the most
easy when he must answer "No," or go open-eyed to ruin. Then he finds that from long disuse
the word will not shape itself; or if uttered, it is taken for naught. That time had come for
Uncle Ulick. Years ago his age and experience had sufficed to curb the hot blood about him.
But he had been too easy to dictate while he might; he had let the reins fall from his hands;
and to-day he must go the young folks' way--ay, go, seeing all too plainly the end of it.

It was not his fate only. Many good men in the '15 and the '45, ay, and in the war of La Vendée,
went out against their better judgment, borne along by the energy of more vehement spirits--went
out, aware, as they rode down the avenue, and looked back at the old house, that they would
see it no more; that never again except in dreams would they mount from the horse-block which
their grandsires' feet had hollowed, walk through the coverts which their fathers had planted,
or see the faces of the aged serving-men who had taught their childish fingers to hold the
reins and level the fowling-piece!

But Colonel John was of another kind and another mind. Often in the Swedish wars had he seen
a fair country-side changed in one day into a waste, from the recesses of which naked creatures
with wolfish eyes stole out at night, maddened by their wrongs, to wreak a horrid vengeance
on the passing soldier. He knew that the fairest parts of Ireland had undergone such a fate
within living memory; and how often before, God and her dark annals alone could tell! Therefore
he was firmly minded, as firmly minded as one man could be, that not again should the corner
of Kerry under his eyes, the corner he loved, the corner entrusted to him, suffer that fate.

Yet when he descended to breakfast, his face told no tale of his thoughts, and he greeted with
a smile the unusual brightness of the morning. As he stood at the door, that looked on the
courtyard, he had a laughing word for the beggars--never were beggars lacking at the door of
Morristown. Nor as he sunned himself and inhaled with enjoyment the freshness of the air did
any sign escape him that he marked a change.

But he was not blind. Among the cripples and vagrants who lounged about the entrance he detected
six or eight ragged fellows whose sunburnt faces were new to him and who certainly were not
cripples. In the doorway of one of the two towers that fronted him across the court stood O'Sullivan
Og, whittling a stick and chatting with a sturdy idler in seafaring clothes. The Colonel could
not give his reason, but he had not looked twice at these two before he got a notion that there
was more in that tower this morning than the old ploughs and the broken boat which commonly
filled the ground floor, or the grain which was stored above. Powder? Treasure? He could not
say which or what; but he felt that the open door was a mask that deceived no one.

And there was a stir, there was a bustle in the court; a sparkle in the eyes of some as they
glanced slyly and under their lashes at the house, a lilt in the tread of others as they stepped
to and fro. He divined that hands would fly to caubeens and knees seek the ground if a certain
face showed at a window: moreover, that that at which he merely guessed was no secret to the
barefooted colleens who fed the pigs, or the barelegged urchins who carried the potatoes. Some
strange change had fallen upon Morristown, and imbued it with life and hope and movement.

He was weighing this when he caught the sound of voices in the house, and he turned about and
entered. The priest and Captain Machin had descended and were standing with Uncle Ulick warming
themselves before the wood fire. The McMurrough, the O'Beirnes, and two or three strangers--grim-looking
men who had followed, a glance told him, the trade he had followed--formed a group a little
apart, yet near enough to be addressed. Asgill was not present, nor Flavia.

"Good-morning, again," Colonel John said. And he bowed.

"With all my heart, Colonel Sullivan," the priest answered cordially. And Colonel John saw
that he had guessed aright: the speaker no longer took the trouble to hide his episcopal cross
and chain, or the ring on his finger. There was an increase of dignity, too, in his manner.
His very cordiality seemed a condescension.

Captain Machin bowed silently, while The McMurrough and the O'Beirnes looked darkly at the
Colonel. They did not understand: it was plain that they were not in the secret of the morning
encounter.

"I see O'Sullivan Og is here," the Colonel said, addressing Uncle Ulick. "That will be very
convenient."

"Convenient?" Uncle Ulick repeated, looking blank.

"We can give him the orders as to the Frenchman's cargo," the Colonel said calmly.

Uncle Ulick winced. "Ay, to be sure! To be sure, lad," he answered. But he rubbed his head,
like a man in a difficulty.

The Bishop seemed to be going to ask a question. Before he could speak, however, Flavia came
tripping down the stairs, a gay song on her lips. Half way down, the song, light and sweet
as a bird's, came to a sudden end.

"I am afraid I am late!" she said. And then--as the Colonel supposed--she saw that more than
the family party were assembled: that the Bishop and Captain Machin were there also, and the
strangers--and, above all, that he was there. She descended the last three stairs silently,
but with a heightened colour, moved proudly into the middle of the group, and curtsied before
the ecclesiastic till her knee touched the floor.

He gave her his hand to kiss, with a smile and a murmured blessing. She rose with sparkling eyes.

"It is a good morning!" she said, as one who having done her duty could be cheerful.

"It is a very fine morning," the Bishop answered in the same spirit. "The sun shines on us,
as we would have him shine. And after breakfast, with your leave, my daughter, and your brother's
leave, we will hold a little council. What say you, Colonel Sullivan?" he continued, turning
to the Colonel. "A family council? Will you join us?"

The McMurrough uttered an exclamation, so unexpected and strident, that the words were not
articulate. But the Bishop understood them, for, as all turned to him, "Nay," he said, "it
shall be for the Colonel to say. But it's ill arguing with a fasting man," he continued genially,
"and by your leave we will return to the matter after breakfast!"

"I am not for argument at all," Captain Machin said. It was the first time he had spoken.

CHAPTER X

A COUNCIL OF WAR

The meal had been eaten, stolidly by some, by others with a poor appetite, by Colonel John
with a thoughtful face. Two men of family, but broken fortunes, old Sir Donny McCarthy of Dingle,
and Timothy Burke of Maamtrasna, had joined the party--under the rose as it were, and neither
giving nor receiving a welcome. Now old Darby kept the door and the Bishop the hearth; whence,
standing with his back to the glowing peat, he could address his audience with eye and voice.
The others, risen from the table, had placed themselves here and there, Flavia near the Bishop
and on his right hand, Captain Machin on his left; The McMurrough, the two O'Beirnes, Sir Donny
and Timothy Burke, with the other strangers, sat in a knot by the window. Uncle Ulick with
Colonel Sullivan formed a third group. The courtyard, visible through the windows, seethed
with an ever-increasing crew of peasantry, frieze-coated or half bare, who whooped and jabbered,
now about one of their number, now about another. Among them moved some ten or twelve men of
another kidney--seamen with ear-rings and pigtails, bronzed faces and gaudy kerchiefs, who
listened but idly, and with the contempt of the mercenary, but whose eyes seldom left the window
behind which the conference sat, and whose hands were never far from the hilt of a cutlass
or the butt of a pistol. The sun shone on the crowd and the court, and now and then those within
the house caught through the gateway the shimmer of the lake beyond. The Irish air was soft,
the hum of voices cheerful; nor could anything less like a secret council, less like a meeting
of men about to commit themselves to a dark and dangerous enterprise, be well imagined.

But no one was deceived. The courage, the enthusiasm, that danced in Flavia's eyes were reflected
more darkly and more furtively in a score of faces, within the room and without. To enjoy one
hour of triumph, to wreak upon the cursed English a tithe of the wrongs, a tithe of the insults,
that their country had suffered, to be the spoke on top, were it but for a day, to die for
Ireland if they could not live for her, to avenge her daughters outraged and her sons beggared--could
man own Irish blood, and an Irish name, and not rise at the call?

If there were such a man, oh! cowardly, mean, and miserable he seemed to Flavia McMurrough.
And much she marvelled at the patience, the consideration, the arguments which the silver-tongued
ecclesiastic brought to bear upon him. She longed, with a face glowing with indignation, to
disown him--in word and deed. She longed to denounce him, to defy him, to bid him begone, and
do his worst.

But she was a young plotter, and he who spoke from the middle of the hearth with so much patience
and forbearance, was an old one, proved by years of peril, and tempered by a score of failures;
a man long accustomed to play with the lives and fortunes of men. He knew better than she what
was at stake to win or lose; nor was it without forethought that he had determined to risk
much to gain Colonel Sullivan. The same far-sight and decision which had led him to take a
bold course on meeting the Colonel in the garden, now lent him patience to win, if win he might,
one whose value in the enterprise on which they were embarking he set at the highest. To his
mind, and to Machin's mind, the other men in the room, ay, and the woman, so fair and enthusiastic,
were but tools to be used, puppets to be danced. But this man--for among soldiers of fortune
there is a camaraderie, so that they are known to one another by repute from the Baltic to
Cadiz--was a coadjutor to be gained. He was one whose experience, joined with an Irish name,
might well avail them much.

Colonel John might refuse, he might be obdurate. But in that event the Bishop's mind was made
up. Flavia supposed that if the Colonel held out, he would be dismissed; that he would go out
from among them a cowardly, mean, miserable creature--and so an end. But the speaker made no
mistake. He had chosen to grip the nettle danger, and he knew that gentle measures were no
longer possible. He must enlist Colonel Sullivan, or--but it has been said that he was one
hardened by long custom, and no novice in dealing with the lives of men.

"If it be a question only of the chances," he said, after some beating about the bush, "if
I am right in supposing that it is only that which withholds Colonel Sullivan from joining us----"

"I do not say it is," Colonel John replied very gravely. "Far from it, sir. But to deal with
it on that basis: while I can admire, reverend sir, the man who is ready to set his life on
a desperate hazard to gain something which he sets above that life, I take the case to be different
where it is a question of the lives of others. Then I say the chances must be weighed--carefully
weighed, and tried in the balance."

"However sacred the cause and high the aim?"

"I think so."

The Bishop sighed, his chin sinking on his breast. "I am sorry," he said, in a voice that sufficiently
declared his depression--"I am sorry."

"That we cannot see alike in a matter so grave? Yes, sir, so am I."

"No. That I met you this morning."

"I am not sorry," Colonel John replied, stoutly refusing to see the other's meaning. "For--hear
me out, I beg. You and I have seen the world and can weigh the chances. Your friend, too, Captain
Machin"--he pronounced the name in an odd tone--"he too knows on what he is embarked and how
he will stand if the result be failure. It may be that he already has his home, his rank, and
his fortune in foreign parts, and will be little the worse if the worst befall."

"I?" Machin cried, stung out of his taciturnity. And he rose with an air of menace from his
seat. "Let me tell you, sir, that I fling back the insinuation!"

But the Colonel refused to listen. He proceeded as if the other were not speaking. "You, reverend
sir, yourself," he continued, "you too know, and well, on what you are embarking, its prospects
and the issue for you, if it fail. But, you--I give you credit for it--are by your profession
and choice devoted to a life of danger. You are willing, day by day and hour by hour, to run
the risk of death. But these, my cousin there"--looking with a kind eye at Flavia--"she----"

"Leave me out!" she cried passionately. And she rose to her feet, her face on fire. "I separate
myself from you! I, for my part, ask no better than to suffer for my country!"

"She thinks she knows, but she does not know," the Colonel continued quietly, unmoved by her
words. "She cannot guess what it is to be cast adrift--alone, a woman, penniless, in a strange
land. And yet that at the best--and the worst may be unspeakably worse--must be her fate if
this plot miscarry! For others, The McMurrough and his friends yonder"--he indicated the group
by the window--"they also are ignorant."

The McMurrough sprang to his feet, spluttering with rage. "D--n you, sir, speak for yourself!"
he cried.

"They know nothing," the Colonel continued, quite unmoved, "of that force against which they
are asked to pit themselves, of that stolid power over sea, never more powerful than now! And
so to pit themselves, that losing they will lose their all!"

"The saints will be between us and harm!" the eldest of the O'Beirnes cried, rising in his
wrath. "It's speak for yourself I say too!"

"And I!"

"And I!" others of the group roared with gestures of defiance. "We are not the boys to be whistled
aside! To the devil with your ignorance!"

And one, stepping forward, snapped his fingers close to the Colonel's face. "That for you!--that
for you!" he cried. "Now, or whenever you will, day or night, and sword or pistol! To the devil
with your impudence, sir; I'd have you know you're not the only man has seen the world! The
shame of the world on you, talking like a schoolmaster while your country cries for you, and
'tis not your tongue but your hand she's wanting!"

Uncle Ulick put his big form between Colonel John and his assailant. "Sure and be easy!" he
said. "Sir Donny, you're forgetting yourself! And you, Tim Burke! Be easy, I say. It's only
for himself the Colonel's speaking!"

"Thank God for that!" Flavia cried in a voice which rang high.

They were round him now a ring of men with dark, angry faces, and hardly restrained hands.
Their voices cried tumultuously on him, in defiance of Ulick's intervention. But the Bishop
intervened.

"One moment," he said, still speaking smoothly and with a smile. "Perhaps it is for those he
thinks he speaks!" And the Bishop pointed to the crowd which filled the forecourt, and of which
one member or another was perpetually pressing his face against the panes to learn what his
sacredness, God bless him! would be wishing. "Perhaps it is for those he thinks he speaks!"
he repeated in irony--for of the feeling of the crowd there could be no doubt.

"You say well," Colonel John replied, rising to his feet and speaking with gloomy firmness.
"It is on their behalf I appeal to you. For it is they who foresee the least, and they who
will suffer the most. It is they who will follow like sheep, and they who like sheep will go
to the butcher! Ay, it is they," he continued with deeper feeling, and he turned to Flavia,
"who are yours, and they will pay for you. Therefore," raising his hand for silence, "before
you name the prize, sum up the cost! Your country, your faith, your race--these are great things,
but they are far off and can do without you. But these--these are that fragment of your country,
that tenet of your faith, that handful of your race which God has laid in the palm of your
hand, to cherish or to crush, and----"

"The devil!" Machin ejaculated with sudden violence. Perhaps he read in the girl's face some
shadow of hesitation, of thought, of perplexity. "Have done with your preaching, sir, I say!
Have done, man! Try us not too far! If we fail----"

"You must fail!" Colonel John retorted--with that narrowing of the nostrils that in the pinch
of fight men long dead had seen for a moment in distant lands, and seen no more. "You will
fail! And failing, sir, his reverence will stand no worse than now, for his life is forfeit
already! While you----"

"What of me? Well, what of me?" the stout man cried truculently. His brows descended over his
eyes, and his lips twitched.

"For you, Admiral Cammock----"

The other stepped forward a pace. "You know me?"

"Yes, I know you."

There was silence for an instant, while those who were in the secret eyed Colonel Sullivan
askance, and those who were not gaped at Cammock.

Soldiers of fortune, of fame and name, were plentiful in those days, but seamen of equal note
were few. And with this man's name the world had lately rung. An Irishman, he had risen high
in Queen Anne's service; but at her death, incited by his devotion to the Stuarts, he had made
a move for them at a critical moment. He had been broken, being already a notable man; on which,
turning his back on an ungrateful country, as he counted it, he had entered the Spanish marine,
which the great minister Alberoni was at that moment reforming. He had been advanced to a position
of rank and power--Spain boasted no stouter seaman; and in the attempt on which Alberoni was
bent, to upset the Protestant succession in England, Admiral Cammock was a factor of weight.
He was a bold, resolute man, restrained by no fine scruples, prepared to take risks himself,
and not too prone to think for others. In Ireland his life was forfeit, Great Britain counted
him renegade and traitor. So that to find himself recognised, though grateful to his vanity,
was a shock to his discretion.

"Well, and knowing me?" he replied at last, with the tail of his eyes on the Bishop, as if
he would gladly gain a hint from his subtlety. "What of me?"

"You have your home, your rank, your relations abroad," Colonel Sullivan answered firmly. "And
if a descent on the coast be a part of your scheme, then you do not share the peril equally
with us. You are here to-day and elsewhere to-morrow. We shall suffer, while you sail away."

"I fling that in your teeth!" Cammock cried. "I know you too, sir, and----"

"Know no worse of me than of yourself!" Colonel Sullivan retorted. "But if you do indeed know
me, you know that I am not one to stand by and see my friends led blindfold to certain ruin.
It may suit your plans to make a diversion here. But that diversion is a part of larger schemes,
and the fate of those who make it is little to you."

Cammock's hand flew to his belt, he took a step forward, his face suffused with passion.

"For half as much I have cut a man down!" he cried.

"May be, but----"

"Peace, peace, my friends," the Bishop interposed. He laid a warning hand on Cammock's arm.
"This gentleman," he continued smoothly, "thinks he speaks for our friends outside."

"Let me speak, not for them, but to them," Colonel Sullivan replied impulsively. "Let me tell
them what I think of this scheme, of its chances, of its certain end! I will tell them no more
than I have told you, and no more than I think justified."

He moved, whether he thought they would let him or not, towards the window. But he had not
taken three steps before he found his progress barred. "What is this?" he exclaimed.

"Needs must with so impulsive a gentleman," the Bishop said. He had not moved, but at a signal
from him The McMurrough, the O'Beirnes and two of the other young men had thrust themselves
forward. "You must give up your sword, Colonel Sullivan," he continued.

The Colonel retreated a pace, and evinced more surprise than he felt. "Give up--do you mean
that I am a prisoner?" he cried. He had not drawn, but two or three of the young men had done
so, and Flavia, in the background by the fire, was white as paper--so suddenly had the shadow
of violence fallen on the room. Uncle Ulick could be heard protesting, but no one heeded him.

"You must surrender!" the Bishop repeated firmly. He too was a trifle pale, but he was used
to such scenes and he spoke with decision.

"Resistance is vain. I hope that with this lady in the room----"

"One moment!" the Colonel cried, raising his hand. But as The McMurrough and the others hesitated,
he whipped out his sword and stepped two paces to one side with an agility no one had foreseen.
He now had the table behind him and Uncle Ulick on his left hand. "One moment!" he repeated,
raising his hand in deprecation and keeping his point lowered. "Do you consider----"

"We consider our own safety," Cammock answered grimly. And signing to one of the men to join
Darby at the door, he drew his cutlass. "You know too much to go free, sir, that is certain."

"Ay, faith, you do," The McMurrough chimed in with a sort of glee. "He was at Tralee yesterday,
no less. And for a little we'll have the garrison here before the time!"

"But by the powers," Uncle Ulick cried, "ye shall not hurt him! Your reverence!"--the big man's
voice shook--"your reverence, this shall not be! It's not in this house they shall murder him,
and him a Sullivan! Flavia, speak, girl," he continued, the perspiration standing on his brow.
"Say ye'll not have it. After all, it's your house! By G--d, it is your house. And, by the
Holy Cross, there shall be no Sullivan blood spilt in it while I am standing by to prevent it!"

"Then let him give up his sword!" Cammock answered doggedly.

"Yes, let him give up his sword," Flavia said in a small voice.

"Colonel Sullivan," the Bishop interposed, stepping forward, "I hope you'll hear reason. Resistance
is vain. You know as well as I do that at a word from us our friends outside would deal with
you, and roughly. Give up your sword and----"

"And presto!" Cammock cried, "or take the consequences!" He had edged his way, while the Bishop
spoke, round Ulick and round the head of the table. Now, with his foot on the bench, he was
ready at a word to spring on the table, and take the Colonel in the rear. It was clear that
he was a man of action. "Down with your sword, sir," he cried flatly.

Colonel John recognised the weakness of his position. Before him the young men were five to
one, with old Sir Donny and Timothy Burke in the rear. On his flank the help which Ulick might
give was discounted by the move Cammock had made. He saw that he could do no more at present,
that he must base his hope on the future; this, though he was not blind to the fact that there
might be no future. Suddenly as the storm had blown up, he knew that he was dealing with desperate
men, who from this day onward would act with their necks in a noose, and whom his word might
send to the scaffold. They had but to denounce him to the rabble who waited outside, and, besides
the Bishop, one only there, as he believed, would have the influence to save him.

Colonel John had confronted danger many times; to confront it had been his trade. And it was
with coolness and a clear perception of the position that he turned to Flavia. "I will give
up my sword," he said, "but to my cousin only. This is her house, and I yield myself"--with
a smile and a bow--"her prisoner."

Before they knew what he would be at, he stepped forward and tendered his hilt to the girl,
who took it with flaccid fingers. "I am in your hands now," he said, fixing his eyes on hers
and endeavouring to convey his meaning to her. For surely, with such a face, she must have,
with all her recklessness, some womanliness, some tenderness of feeling in her.

"D--n your impudence!" The McMurrough cried.

"A truce, a truce," the Bishop interposed. "We are all agreed that Colonel Sullivan knows too
much to go free. He must be secured," he continued smoothly, "for his own sake. Will two of
these gentlemen see him to his room, and see also that his servant is placed under guard in
another room?"

"But," the Colonel objected, looking at Flavia, "my cousin will surely allow me to give----"

"She will be guided by us in this," the Bishop rejoined with asperity. "Let what I have said
be done."

Flavia, very pale, holding the Colonel's sword as if it might sting her, did not speak. Colonel
Sullivan, after a moment's hesitation, followed one of the O'Beirnes from the room, the other
bringing up the rear.

When the door had closed upon them, Flavia's was not the only pale face in the room. The scene
had brought home to more than one the fact that here was an end of peace and law, and a beginning
of violence and rebellion. The Rubicon was passed. For good or for ill, they were committed
to an enterprise fraught, it might be, with success and glory, fraught also, it might be, with
obloquy and death. Uncle Ulick stared at the floor with a lowering face, and sighed, liking
neither the past nor the prospect. The McMurrough, the Squireens, Sir Donny, and Burke, secretly
uneasy, put on a reckless air to cover their apprehensions. The Bishop and Cammock, though
they saw themselves in a fair way to do what they had come to do, looked thoughtful also. And
only Flavia--only Flavia, shaking off the remembrance of Colonel John's face, and Colonel John's
existence--closed her grip upon his sword, and in the ardour of her patriotism saw with her
mind's eye not victory nor acclaiming thousands--no, nor the leaping line of pikemen charging
for his glory that her brother saw--but the scaffold, and a death for her country. Sweet it
seemed to her to die for the cause, for the faith, to die for Ireland! To die as young Lord
Derwentwater had died a year or two before; as Lady Nithsdale had been ready to die; as innumerable
men and women had died, lifted above common things by the love of their country.

True, her country, her Ireland, was but this little corner of Kerry beaten by the Atlantic
storms and sad with the wailing cries of seagulls; the rudest province of a land itself provincial.
But if she knew no more of Ireland than this, she had read her story; and naught is more true
than that the land the most down-trodden is also the best beloved. Wrongs beget a passion of
affection; and from oppression springs sacrifice. This daughter of the windswept shore, of
the misty hills and fairy glens, whose life from infancy had been bare and rugged and solitary,
had become, for that reason, a dreamer of dreams and a worshipper of the ideal Ireland, her
country, her faith. The salt breeze that lashed her cheeks and tore at her hair, the peat reek
and the soft shadows of the bogland--ay, and many an hour of lonely communing--had filled her
breast with love; such love as impels rather to suffering and to sacrifice than to enjoyment.
Nor had she yet encountered the inevitable disappointments. Her eyes had not yet been opened
to the seamy side of patriotism; to the sordid view of every great adventure that soon or late
saddens the experienced and dispels the glamour of the dreamer.

For one moment she had recoiled before the shock of impending violence, the clash of steel,
the reality of things. But that had passed; now her one thought, as she stood with dilated
eyes, unconsciously clutching the Colonel's sword, was that the time was come, the thing was
begun--henceforth she belonged not to herself, but to Ireland and to God.

Deep in such thoughts, the girl was not aware that the others had got together and were discussing
the Colonel's fate until mention was made of the French sloop and of Captain Augustin. "Faith,
and let him go in that!" she heard Uncle Ulick urging. "D'ye hear me, your reverence? 'Twill
be a week before they land him, and the fire we'll be lighting will be no secret at all at
all by then."

"May be, Mr. Sullivan," the Bishop replied--"may be. But we cannot spare the sloop."

"No, by the Holy Bones, and we'll not spare her!" The McMurrough chimed in. "She's heels to
her, and it's a godsend she'll be to us if things go ill."

"And an addition to our fleet anyway," Cammock said. "We'd be mad to let her go--just to make
a man safe, we can make safe a deal cheaper!"

Flavia propped the sword carefully in an angle of the hearth, and moved forward. "But I do
not understand," she said timidly. "We agreed that the sloop and the cargo were to go free
if Colonel Sullivan--but you know!" she added, breaking off and addressing her brother. "You
were there."

"Is it dreaming you are?" he retorted contemptuously. "Is it we'll be taking note of that now?"

"It was a debt of honour," she said.

"The girl's right," Uncle Ulick said, "and we'll be rid of him."

"We'll be rid of him without that," The McMurrough muttered.

"I am fearing, Mr. Sullivan," the Bishop said, "that it is not quite understood by all that
we are embarked upon a matter of the utmost gravity, upon a matter of life and death. We cannot
let bagatelles stand in the way. The sloop and her cargo can be made good to her owners--at
another time. For your relative and his servant----"

"The shortest way with them!" some one cried. "That's the best and the surest!"

"For them," the Bishop continued, silencing the interruption by a look, "we must not forget
that some days must pass before we can hope to get our people together, or to be in a position
to hold our own. During the interval we lie at the mercy of an informer. Your own people you
know, and can trust to the last gossoon, I'm told. But the same cannot be said of this gentleman--who
has very fixed ideas--and his servant. Our lives and the lives of others are in their hands,
and it is of the last importance that they be kept secure and silent."

"Ay, silent's the word," Cammock growled.

"There could be no better place than one of the towers," The McMurrough suggested, "for keeping
them safe, bedad!"

"And why'll they be safer there than in the house?" Uncle Ulick asked suspiciously. He looked
from one speaker to another with a baffled face, trying to read their minds. He was sure that
they meant more than they said.

"Oh, for the good reason!" the young man returned contemptuously. "Isn't all the world passing
the door upstairs? And what more easy than to open it?"

Cammock's eyes met the Bishop's. "The tower'll be best," he said. "Devil a doubt of it! Draw
off the people, and let them be taken there, and a guard set. We've matters of more importance
to discuss now. This gathering to-morrow, to raise the country--what's the time fixed for it?"

But Flavia, who had listened with a face of perplexity, interposed. "Still, he is my prisoner,
is he not?" she said wistfully. "And if I answer for him?"

"By your leave, ma'am," Cammock replied, with decision, "one word. Women to women's work! I'll
let no woman weave a halter for me!"

The room echoed low applause. And Flavia was silent.

CHAPTER XI

A MESSAGE FOR THE YOUNG MASTER

James McMurrough was young, but he was a slave to as few of the generous ambitions of youth
as any man of his years. At heart he cared little for his country, and nothing for his Faith--which
indeed he had been ready to barter for an allowance, and a certain succession. He cared only
for himself; and but for the resentment which the provisions of his grandfather's will had
bred in him, he would have seen the Irish race in Purgatory, and the Roman faith in a worse
place, before he would have risked a finger to right the one or restore the other. Even under
the influence of that resentment, that bitterness, he had come into the conspiracy with but
half a heart; without enthusiasm, and with an eye not so much to its ultimate success as to
the gain he might make out of it in the meantime.

Once embarked, however, on the enterprise, vanity, the failing of light minds, and particularly
of the Celtic mind, swept him onward. The night which followed Colonel Sullivan's arrest was
a night long remembered at Morristown--a night to uplift the sanguine and to kindle the short-sighted;
nor was it a wonder that the young chief--as he strode among his admiring tenants, his presence
greeted, when he entered, with Irish acclamations, and his skirts kissed, when he passed, by
devoted kernes--sniffed the pleasing incense, and trod the ground to the measure of imagined
music. He felt himself a greater man this night than he had ever been before. The triumph that
was never to be intoxicated him. He was Montrose, he was Claverhouse--a Montrose whom no Philiphaugh
awaited, a Claverhouse whom no silver bullet would slay. He saw himself riding in processions,
acclaimed by thousands, dictating to senates, the idol of a rejoicing Dublin.

His people had kindled a huge bonfire in the middle of the forecourt, and beside this he extended
a gracious welcome to a crowd of strong tenants, whose picturesque figures, as they feasted,
sang, drank, and fought, the fire silhouetted on the house front and the surrounding walls;
now projecting them skywards, gigantic and menacing, now reducing them to dwarfs. A second
fire, for the comfort of the baser sort, had been kindled outside the gates, and was the centre
of merriment less restrained; while a third, which served as a beacon to the valley, and a
proclamation of what was being done, glowed on the platform before the ruined tower at the
head of the lake. From this last the red flames streamed far across the water; and now revealed
a belated boat shooting from the shadow on its way across, now a troop of countrymen, who,
led by their priest, came limping along the lake-side road; ostensibly to join in the religious
services of the morrow, but in reality, as they knew, to hear something, and, God willing,
to do something towards freeing old Ireland and shaking off the grip of the cursed Saxon.

In the more settled parts of the land, such a summons as had brought them from their rude shielings
among the hills or beside the bogs, would have passed for a dark jest. But in this remote spot,
the notion of overthrowing the hated power by means of a few score pikes, stiffened by half
as many sailors from the Spanish ship in the bay, did not seem preposterous, either to these
poor folk or to their betters. Cammock, of course, knew the truth, and the Bishop. Asgill,
too, the one man cognisant of the movement who was not here, and of whom some thought with
distrust--he, too, could appraise the attempt at its true worth. But of these men, the two
first aimed merely at a diversion which would further their plans in Europe; and the last cared
only for Flavia.

But James McMurrough and Flavia herself, and Sir Donny and old Timothy Burke and the O'Beirnes
and the two or three small gentry, Sullivans or McCarthys, who had also come in--and in a degree
Uncle Ulick-these saw nothing hopeless in the plan. That plan, as announced, was first to fall
upon Tralee in combination with a couple of sloops said to be lying in Galway Bay; and afterwards
to surprise Kenmare. Masters of these places, they would have the Kerry peninsula behind them,
and no enemy within it; for the Crosbys and the Pettys, and the handful of English settlers
who lived there, could offer no resistance. So much done, they proposed to raise the old standard,
to call Connaught to their aid, to cry a crusade. Spain would reinforce them through a score
of ports--was not Galway City half Spanish already?--Ireland would rise as one man. And faith,
as Sir Donny said, before the Castle tyrants could open their eyes, or raise their heads from
the pillow, they'd be seeing themselves driven into the salt ocean!

So, while the house-walls gave back the ruddy glare of the torches, and the bare-footed, bare-headed,
laughing colleens damped the thatch, and men confessed in one corner and kissed their girls
in another, and the smiths in a third wrought hard at the pike-heads--so the struggle depicted
itself to more than one! Among others to Flavia, as, half trembling, half triumphant, she looked
down from a window on the strange riot, and told herself that the time was come! To James as
he strode to and fro, fancying himself Montrose, sweeping eastwards like a flame. To the O'Beirnes
and the O'Loughlins and their like. Great when the fight was done would be the glory of Kerry!
The cocks of Clare would crow no more, and undying would be the fame of the McMurrough line,
descended from the old Wicklow kings!

Meanwhile Cammock and the Bishop walked in the dark in the garden, a little apart from the
turmoil, and, wrapped in their cloaks, talked in low voices; debating much of Sicily and Naples
and the Cardinal and the Mediterranean fleet, and at times laughing at some court story. But
they said, strange to tell, no word of Tralee, or of Kenmare, or of Dublin Castle, or even
of Connaught. They were no visionaries. They had to do with greater things than these, and
in doing them knew that they must spend to gain. The lives of a few score peasants, living
in wretchedness already, the ruin of half a dozen hamlets, the desolation of such a God-forsaken
country-side as this, which was but bog and hill at best, and where it rained two days in three--what
were these beside the diversion of a single squadron from the great pitched fight, already
foreseen, where the excess of one battleship might win an empire, and its absence might ruin
nations?

So while the fire at the head of the lake blazed high, and band after band of the "boys" came
in, thirsting for fight, and while song and revelry lorded it in the forecourt and on the strand,
and not whisky only but cognac, taken from Captain Augustin's sloop, flowed freely, the two
men pacing the walk behind the Florence yews gave scarce a thought to the present moment. They
had planned this move in conjunction with other and more important moves. It was made or in
the making; and forthwith their thoughts and their speech left it, to deal with the next move
and the one beyond, and with the end of all their moves--St. Germains or St. James's. And one
other man, and one only, because his life had been passed on their wider plane, and he could
judge of the relative value of Connaught and Kent, divined the trend of their thoughts, and
understood the deliberation, almost the sense of duty with which they prepared to sacrifice
their pawns.

Colonel Sullivan sat in the upper room of one of the two towers that flanked the entrance to
the forecourt. Bale was with him, and the two, with the door doubly locked upon them and guarded
by a sentry whose crooning they could hear, shared such comfort as a pitcher of water and a
gloomy outlook afforded. The darkness hid the medley of odds and ends, of fishing-nets, broken
spinning-wheels and worn-out sails, which littered their prison; but the inner of the two slit-like
windows that lighted the room admitted a thin shaft of firelight that, dancing among the uncovered
rafters, told of the orgy below. Bale, staring morosely at the crowd about the fire, crouched
in the splay of the window, while the Colonel, in the same posture at the other window, gazed
with feelings not more cheerful on the dark lake.

He was concerned for himself and his companion; for he knew that frightened folk are ever the
most cruel. But he was more gravely concerned for those whose advocate he had made himself--for
the ignorant cotters in their lowly hovels, the women, the children, upon whom the inevitable
punishment would fall. He doubted, now that it was too late, the wisdom of the course he had
taken; and, blaming himself for precipitation, he fancied that if he had acted with a little
more guile, a little more reticence, a little less haste, his remonstrance might have had greater
weight.

There are some whom a life spent in camps and amid bloody scenes, hardens; and others, a few,
who emerge from the ordeal with souls passionately inclined to mercy and justice. Colonel John
was of the latter--a black swan. For at this moment, lying, and aware that he lay, in some
peril of his life, he was more troubled by the evil plight of the helpless, whose cabins had
given him a foster-mother, and made him welcome in his youth, whose blood, too, he shared,
than by his own uncertain prospects.

William Bale, as was natural, was far from sharing this view. "May the fire burn them!" he
muttered, his ire excited by some prank of the party below. "The Turks were polite beside these
barefoot devils!"

"You'd have said the other thing at Bender," the Colonel answered, turning his head.

"Ay, your honour," Bale returned; "a man never knows when he is well off."

His master laughed. "I'd have you apply that now," he said.

"So I would if it weren't that I've a kind of a scunner of those black bog-holes," Bale said.
"To be planted head first 's no proper end of a man, to my thinking; and if there's not something
of the kind in these ragamuffins' minds I'm precious mistaken.

"Pooh, man, you're frightening yourself," the Colonel answered. But the room was dank and chill,
the lake without lay lonely, and the picture which Bale's words called up was not pleasant
to the bravest. "It's a civilised land, and they'd not think of it!"

"There's one, and that's the young lady's brother," Bale answered darkly, "would not pull us
out by the feet! I'll swear to that. Your honour's too much in his way, if what they say in
the house is true."

"Pooh!" the Colonel answered again. "We're of one blood."

"Cain and Abel," Bale said. "There's example for it." And he chuckled.

The Colonel scolded him anew. But having done so he could not shake off the impression which
the man's words had made on him. While he lived he was a constant and an irritating check upon
James McMurrough. If the young man saw a chance of getting rid of that check, was he one to
put it from him? Colonel John's face grew long as he pondered the question; he had seen enough
of James to feel considerable doubt about the answer. The fire on the height above the lake
had died down, the one on the strand was a bed of red ashes. The lake lay buried in darkness,
from which at intervals the cry of an owl as it moused along the shore rose mournfully.

But Colonel John was not one to give way to fears that might be baseless. "Let us sleep," he
said, shrugging his shoulders. And he lay down where he was, pillowing his head on a fishing-net.
Bale said nothing, but examined the door before he stretched himself across the threshold.

Half an hour after dawn they were roused. It was a heavy trampling on the stairs that awakened
them. The door was quickly unlocked, it was thrown open, and the hairy face of O'Sullivan Og,
who held it wide, looked in. Behind him were two of the boys with pikes--frowsy, savage, repellent
figures, with drugget coats tied by the sleeves about their necks.

"You'll be coming with us, Colonel, no less," Og said.

Colonel John looked at him. "Whither, my man?" he asked coolly. He and Bale had got to their
feet at the first alarm.

"Och, sure, where it will be best for you," Og replied, with a leer.

"Both of us?" the Colonel asked, in the same hard tone.

"Faith, and why'd we be separating you, I'd be asking."

Colonel John liked neither the man's tone nor his looks. But he was far above starting at shadows,
and he guessed that resistance would be useless. "Very good," he said. "Lead on."

"Bedad, and if you'll be doing that same, we will," O'Sullivan Og answered with a grin.

The Colonel and Bale found their hats--they'd been allowed to bring nothing else with them--and
they went down the stairs. In the gloom before the door of the tower waited two sturdy fellows,
barefoot and shock-headed, with musquetoons on their shoulders, who seemed to be expecting
them. Round the smouldering embers of the fire a score of figures lay sleeping in the open,
wrapped in their frieze coats. As many others sat with their backs against the wall, and their
chins sunk on their breasts. The sun was not yet up, and all things were wrapt in a mist that
chilled to the bone. Even within the narrow bounds of the forecourt, objects at a distance
put on queer shapes and showed new faces. Nothing in all that was visible took from the ominous
aspect of the two men with the firearms. One for each, Bale thought. And his face, always pallid,
showed livid in the morning light.

Without a word the four men formed up round their prisoners, and at once O'Sullivan Og led
the way at a brisk pace towards the gate. Colonel John was following, but he had not taken
three steps before a thought struck him, and he halted. "Are we leaving the house at once?"
he asked.

"We are. And why not, I'm asking."

"Only that I've a message for the McMurrough it will be well for him to have."

"Sure," O'Sullivan Og answered, his manner half wheedling, half truculent, "'tis no time for
messages and trifles and the like now, Colonel. No time at all, I tell you. Ye can see that
for yourself, I'm thinking, such a morning as this."

"I'm thinking nothing of the kind," the Colonel answered, and he hung back, looking towards
the house. Fortunately Darby chose that minute to appear at the door. The butler's face was
pale, and showed fatigue; his hair hung in wisps; his clothes were ill-fastened. He threw a
glance of contempt, the contempt of the indoor servant, at the sleeping figures, lying here
and there in the wet. Thence his eyes travelled on and took in the group by the gate. He started,
and wrung his hands in sudden, irrepressible distress. It was as if a spasm seized the man.

The Colonel called him. "Darby," he cried. "Come here, my man."

O'Sullivan Og opened his mouth; he was on the point of interposing, but he thought better of
it, and shrugged his shoulders, muttering something in the Erse.

"Darby," the Colonel said gravely, "I've a message for the young master, and it must be given
him in his bed. Will you give it?"

"I will, your honour."

"You will not fail?"

"I will not, your honour," the old servant answered earnestly.

"Tell him, then, that Colonel Sullivan made his will as he passed through Paris, and 'tis now
in Dublin. You mind me, Darby?"

The old man began to shake--he had an Irish man's superstition. "I do, your honour. But the
saints be between us and harm," he continued, with the same gesture of distress. "Who's speaking
of wills?"

"Only tell him that in his bed," Colonel John repeated, with an urgent look. "That is all."

"And by your leave, it is now we'll be going," Og interposed sharply. "We are late already
for what we've to do."

"There are some things," the Colonel replied with a steady look, "which it is well to be late
about."

Having fired that shot, he turned his eyes once more on the house. Then, without further remonstrance,
he and Bale, with their guard, marched out through the gate, and took the road along the lake--that
same road by which the Colonel had come some days before from the French sloop. The men with
the firelocks walked beside them, one on either flank, while the pikemen guarded them behind,
and O'Sullivan Og brought up the rear.

They had not taken twenty paces before the fog swallowed up the party; and henceforth they
walked in a sea of mist, like men moving in a nightmare from which they cannot awake. The clammy
vapour chilled them to the bone: while the unceasing wailing of seagulls, borne off the lough,
the whistle of an unseen curlew on the hillside, the hurtle of wings as some ghostly bird swept
over them--these were sounds to deepen the effect, and depress men who had reason to suspect
that they were being led to a treacherous end.

The Colonel, though he masked his apprehensions under an impenetrable firmness, began to fear
no less than that--and with cause. He observed that O'Sullivan Og's followers were of the lowest
type of kerne, islanders in all probability, and half starved; men whose hands were never far
from their skenes, and whose one orderly instinct consisted in a blind obedience to their chief.
O'Sullivan Og himself he believed to be The McMurrough's agent in his more lawless business;
a fierce, unscrupulous man, prospering on his lack of scruple. The Colonel could augur nothing
but ill from the hands to which he had been entrusted; and worse from the manner in which these
savage, half-naked creatures, shambling beside him, stole from time to time a glance at him,
as if they fancied they saw the winding-sheet high on his breast.

Some, so placed, and feeling themselves helpless, isolated by the fog, and entirely at these
men's mercy, might have lost their firmness. But he did not; nor did Bale, though the servant's
face betrayed the keenness of his anxiety. They weighed indeed, certainly the former, the chances
of escape: such chances as a headlong rush into the fog might afford to unarmed men, uncertain
where they were. But the Colonel reflected that it was possible that that was the very course
upon which O'Sullivan Og counted for a pretext and an excuse. And, for a second objection,
the two could not, so closely were they guarded, communicate with each other in such a way
as to secure joint action.

After all, The McMurrough's plan might amount to no more than their detention in some secret
place among the hills. Colonel John hoped so.

Yet he could not persuade himself that this was the worst that was intended. He could not but
think ill of things; of O'Sullivan Og's silence, of the men's stealthy glances, of the uncanny
hour. And when they came presently to a point where a faintly marked track left the road, and
the party, at a word from their leader, turned into it, he thought worse of the matter. Was
it his fancy--he was far from nervous--or were the men beginning to look impatiently at one
another? Was it his fancy, or were they beginning to press more closely on their prisoners,
as if they sought a quarrel? He imagined that he read in one man's eyes the question "When?"
and in another's the question "Now?" And a third, he thought, handled his weapon in an ominous
fashion.

Colonel John was a brave man, inured to danger and trained to emergencies, one who had faced
death in many forms. But the lack, of arms shakes the bravest, and it needed even his nerve
to confront without a quiver the fate that, if his fears were justified, lay before them: the
sudden, violent death, and the black bog-water which would swallow all traces of the crime.
But he did not lose his firmness or lower his crest for a moment.

By-and-by the track, which for a time had ascended, began to run downward. The path grew less
sound. The mist, which was thicker than before, and shut them in on the spot where they walked,
as in a world desolate and apart, allowed nothing to be seen in front; but now and again a
ragged thorn-tree or a furze bush, dripping with moisture, showed ghostlike to right or left.
There was nothing to indicate the point they were approaching, or how far they were likely
to travel; until the Colonel, peering keenly before them, caught the gleam of water. It was
gone as soon as seen, the mist falling again like a curtain; but he had seen it, and he looked
back to see what Og was doing. He caught him also in the act of looking over his shoulder.
Was he making sure that they were beyond the chance of interruption?

It might be so; and Colonel John wheeled about quickly, thinking that while O'Sullivan Og's
attention was directed elsewhere, he might take one of the other men by surprise, seize his
weapon and make a fight for his life and his servant's life. But he met only sinister looks,
eyes that watched his smallest movement with suspicion, a point ready levelled to strike him
if he budged. And then, out of the mist before them, loomed the gaunt figure of a man, walking
apace towards them.

The meeting appeared to be as little expected by the stranger as by Og's party. For not only
did he spring aside and leave the track to give them a wider berth, but he went by warily,
with his feet in the bog. Some word was cried to him in the Erse, he answered, for a moment
he appeared to be going to stop. Then he passed on and was lost in the mist.

But he left a change behind him. One of the firelock-men broke into hasty speech, glancing,
the Colonel noticed, at him and Bale, as if they were the subjects of his words. O'Sullivan
Og answered the man curtly and harshly; but before the reply was off his lips a second man
broke in vehemently in support of the other. They all halted; for a few seconds all spoke at
once. Then, just as Colonel John was beginning to hope that they would quarrel, O'Sullivan
Og gave way with sullen reluctance, and a man ran back the way they had come, shouting a name.
Before the prisoners could decide whether his absence afforded a chance of escape, he was back
again, and with him the man who had passed in the bog.

Colonel John looked at the stranger, and recognised him; and, a man of quick wit, he knew on
the instant that he had to face the worst. His face set more hard, more firm--if it turned
also a shade paler. He addressed his companion. "They've called him back to confess us," he
muttered in Bale's ear.

"The devils!" Bale exclaimed. He choked on the word and worked his jaw, glaring at them; but
he said no more. Only his eyes glanced from one to another, wild and full of rage.

Colonel John did not reply, for already O'Sullivan Og was addressing him. "There's no more
to it," The McMurrough's agent said bluntly; "but you've come your last journey, Colonel, and
we'll go back wanting you. There's no room in Ireland from this day for them that's not Irish
at heart! nor safety for honest men while you're walking the sod. But----"

"Will you murder us?" Colonel John said. "Do you know, man," he continued sternly, "what you
do? What have we done to you, or your master?"

"Done?" O'Sullivan Og answered with sudden ferocity. "And murder, say you? Ay, faith, I would,
and ten thousand like you, for the sake of old Ireland! You may make your peace, and have five
minutes to that--and no more, for time presses, and we've work to do. These fools would have
a priest for you"--he turned and spat on the ground--"but it is I, and none better, know you
are black Protestants, and 'twould take the Holy Father, God bless him, and no less, to make
your souls!"

Colonel John looked at him with a strange light in his eyes. "It is little to you," he said,
"and much to me. Yet think, think, man, what you do. Or if you will not, here is my servant.
Let him go at least. Spare his life at least. Put him, if you please, on board the French sloop
that's in the bay----"

"Faith, and you're wasting the little breath that is left you," the ruffian answered, irritated
rather than moved by the other's calmness. "It's to take or leave. I told the men a heretic
had no soul to make, but----"

"God forgive you!" Colonel John said--and was silent; for he saw that remonstrance would not
help him, nor prayer avail. The man's mind was made up, his heart steeled. For a brief instant,
something, perhaps that human fear which he had so often defied, clutched Colonel John's heart.
For a brief instant human weakness had its way with him, and he shuddered--in the face of the
bog, in the face of such an end as this. Then the mist passed from his eyes, if not from the
landscape; the gracious faith that was his returned to him: he was his grave, unyielding self
again. He took Bale's hand and begged his forgiveness. "Would I had never brought you!" he
said. "Why did I, why did I? Yet, God's will be done!"

Bale did not seem able to speak. His jaw continued to work, while his eyes looked sideways
at Og. Had the Irishman known his man, he would have put himself out of reach, armed as he was.

"But I will appeal for you to the priest!" Colonel John continued; "he may yet prevail with
them to spare you."

"He will not!" O'Sullivan Og said naïvely.

CHAPTER XII

THE SEA MIST

Father O'Hara looked at the two prisoners, and the tears ran down his face. He was the man
whom Colonel Sullivan and Bale had overtaken on their way to Tralee. In spite of his life and
his wrongs, he was a merciful man, and with all his heart he wished that, if he could do no
good, God had been pleased to send him another way through the mist. Not that life was to him
aught but a tragedy at any time, on whichever road he took. What but a tragedy could it be
to a man bred at Douay and reared on Greek, and now condemned to live in loneliness and squalor
among unlettered, unwashed creatures; to one who, banned by the law, moved by night, and lurked
in some hiding-place by day, and, waking or sleeping, was ever in contact with the lawless
and the oppressed, the wretched and the starving--whose existence was spent in shriving, christening,
burying among the hills and bogs?

Yet, even in such a life this was a tragedy beyond the common. And--"What can I do?" he cried.
"Non mihi, domine, culpa! Oh, what can I do?"

"You can do nothing, father," O'Sullivan Og said grimly. "They're heretics, no less! And we're
wasting your time, blessed man." He whispered a few words in the priest's ear.

The latter shuddered. "God forgive us all!" he wailed. "And most, those who need it most! God
keep us from high place!"

"Sure and we're in little peril!" O'Sullivan Og replied.

Colonel John looked at the priest with solemn eyes. Nor did aught but a tiny pulse beating
in his cheek betray that every sense was on the stretch; that he was listening, watching, ready
to seize the least chance, that he might save, at any rate, poor Bale. Then, "You are a Christian,
father," he said gravely. "I ask nothing for myself. But this is my servant. He has done nothing,
he knows nothing. Prevail with them to spare him!"

Bale uttered a fierce remonstrance. No one understood it, or what he said, or meant. His eyes
looked askance, like the eyes of a beast in a snare--seeking a weapon, or a throat! To be butchered
thus! To be butchered thus!

Perhaps Colonel John, notwithstanding his calm courage, had the same thought, and found it
bitter. Death had been good in the face of silent thousands, with pride and high resolve for
cheer. Or in the heat of a fight for the right, where it came unheeded and almost unfelt. But
here on the bog, in the mist, unknown, unnoticed, to perish and be forgotten in a week, even
by the savage hands that took their breath! Perhaps to face this he too had need of all his
Christian stoicism.

"My God! My God!" the priest said. And he fell on his knees and raised his hands. "Have pity
on these two, and soften the hearts of their murderers!"

"Amen," said Colonel John quietly.

"Faith, and 'tis idle, this," O'Sullivan Og cried irritably. He gave a secret sign to his men
to draw to one side and be ready. "We've our orders, and other work to do. Kneel aside, father,
'tis no harm we mean you, God forbid! But you're wasting breath on these same. And you," he
continued, addressing the two, "say what prayer you will, if you know one, and then kneel or
stand--it's all one to us--and, God willing, you'll be in purgatory and never a knowledge of it!"

"One moment," Colonel John interposed, his face pale but composed, "I have something to say
to my friend."

"And you may, if you'll play no tricks."

"If you would spare him----"

"'Tis idle, I say! Sorra a bit of good is it! But there, ye shall be having while the blessed
man says three Paternosters, and not the least taste of time beyond! Devil a bit!"

Colonel John made a sign to the priest, who, bowing himself on the wet sod, covered his eyes
with his hand and began to pray. The men, at a sign from O'Sullivan, had drawn to either side,
and the firelock-men were handling their pieces, with one eye on their leader and one on the
prisoners.

Colonel John took Bale's hand. "What matter, soon or late?" he said gently "Here, or on our
beds we die in our duty. Let us say, In manus tuas----"

"Popish! Popish!" Bale muttered, shaking his head. He spoke hoarsely, his tongue cleaving to
his mouth. His eyes were full of rage.

"Into Thy hands!" Colonel John said. He stooped nearer to his man's ear. "When I shout, jump
and run!" he breathed. "I will hold two." Again he lifted his head and looked calmly at the
threatening figures standing about them, gaunt and dark, against the curtain of mist. They
were waiting for the signal. The priest was half way through his second Paternoster. His trembling
tongue was stumbling, lagging more and more. As he ended it--the two men still standing hand
in hand--Colonel John gripped Bale's fingers hard, but held him.

"What is that?" he cried, in a loud voice--but still he held Bale tight that he might not move.
"What is that?" he repeated. On the ear--on his ear first--had fallen the sound of hurrying feet.

They strained their eyes through the mist.

"And what'll this be?" O'Sullivan Og muttered suspiciously, looking first in the direction
of the sound, and then, still more suspiciously, at his prisoners. "If you budge a step," he
growled, "I'll drive this pike----"

"A messenger from The McMurrough," Colonel John said, speaking as sternly as if he and not
The McMurrough's henchman commanded the party. If he was human, as indeed he was, if his heart,
at the hope of respite, beat upon his ribs as the heart of a worse man might have beaten, he
did not betray it save by a light in his eyes. "You will see if I am not right," he added.

They had not to wait. As he spoke a tall, lathy form emerged from the mist. It advanced with
long leaps, the way they had come. A moment, and the messenger saw them--almost as soon as
they had seen him. He pulled up, and walked the intervening distance, his arms drooping, and
his breath coming in gasps. He had run apace, and he could not speak. But he nodded--as he
wiped the saliva from his parted lips--to O'Sullivan Og to come aside with him; and the two
moved off a space. The others eyed them while the message was given. The suspense was short.
Quickly O'Sullivan Og came back.

"Ye may be thankful," he said drily. "Ye've cheated the pikes for this time, no less. And 'tis
safe ye are."

"You have the greater reason to be thankful," Colonel John replied solemnly. "You have been
spared a foul crime."

"Faith, and I hope I may never do worse," Og answered hardily, "than rid the world of two black
Protestants, an' them with a priest to make their souls! Many's the honest man's closed his
eyes without that same. But 'tis no time for prating! I wonder at your honour, and you no more
than out of the black water! Bring them along, boys," he continued, "we've work to do yet!"

"Laus Deo!" the priest cried, lifting up his hands. "Give Him the glory!"

"Amen," the Colonel said softly. And for a moment he shut his eyes and stood with clasped hands.
Perhaps even his courage was hardly proof against so sudden, so late a respite. He looked with
a hardly repressed shudder on the dreary face of the bog, on the gleaming water, on the dripping
furze bushes. "I thank you kindly, father, for your prayers!" he said. "The words of a good
man avail much!"

No more was said. For a few yards Bale walked unsteadily, shaken by his escape from a death
the prospect of which had evoked as much rage as fear. But he recovered himself speedily, and,
urged by O'Sullivan's continual injunctions to hasten, the party were not long in retracing
their steps. They reached the road, and went along it, but in the direction of the landing-place.
In a few minutes they were threading their way in single file across the saucer-like waste
which lay to landward of the hill overlooking the jetty and the inlet.

"Are you taking us to the French sloop?" Colonel John asked.

"You'll be as wise as the lave of us by-and-by!" Og answered sulkily.

They crossed the shoulder near the tower, which loomed uncertainly through the fog, and they
strode down the slope to the stone pier. The mist lay low on the water, and only the wet stones
of the jetty, and a boat or two floating in the angle between the jetty and the shore, were
visible. The tide was almost at the flood. Og bade the men draw in one of the boats, ordered
Colonel Sullivan and Bale to go into the bow, and the pikemen to take the oars. He and the
two firelock-men--the messenger had vanished--took their seats in the stern.

"Pull out, you cripples," he said. "And be pulling stout, and there'll be flood enough to be
bringing us back."

The men bent to the clumsy oars, and the boat slid down the inlet, and passed under the beam
of the French sloop, which lay moored farther along the jetty. Not a sign of life appeared
on deck as they passed; the ship seemed to be deserted. Half a dozen strokes carried the boat
beyond view of it, and the little party were alone on the bosom of the water, that lay rocking
smoothly between its unseen banks. Some minutes were spent in stout rowing, and the oily swell
began to grow longer and slower. They were near the mouth of the inlet, and abreast of the
east-and-west-running shore of the bay. Smoothly as the sea lapped the beach under the mist,
the boat began to rise and fall on the Atlantic rollers.

"Tis more deceitful than a pretty colleen," O'Sullivan Og said, "is the sea-fog, bad cess to
it! My own father was lost in it. Will you be seeing her, boys?"

"Ye'll not see her till ye touch her!" one of the rowers answered.

"And the tide running?" the other said. "Save us from that same!"

"She's farther out by three gunshots!" struck in a firelock-man. "We'll be drifting back, ye
thieves of the world, if ye sit staring there! Pull, an' we'll be inshore an' ye know it."

For some minutes the men pulled steadily onwards, while one of the passengers, apprised that
their destination was the Spanish war-vessel which had landed Cammock and the Bishop, felt
anything but eager to reach it. A Spanish war-ship meant imprisonment and hardship without
question, possibly the Inquisition, persecution, and death. When the men lay at last on their
oars, and swore that they must have passed the ship, and they would go no farther, he alone
listened indifferently, nay, felt a faint hope born in him.

"'Tis a black Protestant fog!" O'Sullivan cried. "Where'll we be, I wonder?"

"Sure, ye can make no mistake," one answered. "The wind's light off the land."

"We'll be pulling back, lads."

"That's the word."

The men put the boat about, a little sulkily, and started on the return journey. The sound
of barking dogs and crowing cocks came off the land with that clearness which all sounds assume
in a fog. Suddenly Colonel John, crouching in the bow, where was scant room for Bale and himself,
saw a large shape loom before him. Involuntarily he uttered a warning cry, O'Sullivan echoed
it, the men tried to hold the boat. In doing this, however, one man was quicker than the other,
the boat turned broadside on to her former course, and before the cry was well off O'Sullivan
Og's lips, it swept violently athwart a cable hauled taut by the weight of a vessel straining
to the flow of the tide. In a twinkling the boat careened, throwing its occupants into the water.

Colonel John and Bale were nearest to the hawser, and managed, suddenly as the thing happened,
to seize it and cling to it. But the first wave washed over them, blinding them and choking
them; and, warned by this, they worked themselves desperately along the rope until their shoulders
were clear of the water and they could twist a leg over their slender support.

That effected, they could spit out the water, breathe again, and look about them. They shouted
for help once, twice, thrice, thinking that some on the great ship looming dim and distant
to shoreward of them must hear. But their shouts were merged in the wail of despair, of shrieks
and cries that floated away into the mist. The boat, travelling with the last of the tide,
had struck the cable with force, and was already drifting a gunshot away. Whether any saved
themselves on it, the two clinging to the hawser could not see.

Bale, shivering and scared, would have shouted again, but Colonel John stayed him. "God rest
their souls!" he said solemnly. "The men aboard can do nothing. By the time they'll have lowered
a boat it will be done with these."

"They can take us aboard," Bale said.

"Ay, if we want to go to Cadiz gaol," Colonel John answered slowly. He was peering keenly towards
the land.

"But what can we do, your honour?" Bale asked with a shiver.

"Swim ashore."

"God forbid!"

"But you can swim?"

"Not that far. Not near that far, God knows!" Bale repeated with emphasis, his teeth chattering.
"I'll go down like a stone."

"Cadiz gaol! Cadiz gaol!" Colonel John muttered. "Isn't it worth a swim to escape that?"

"Ay, ay, but----"

"Do you see that oar drifting? In a twinkling it will be out of reach. Off with your boots,
man, off with your clothes, and to it! That oar is freedom! The tide is with us still, or it
would not be moving that way. But let the tide turn and we cannot do it."

"It's too far!"

"If you could see the shore," Colonel John argued, "you'd think nothing of it! With your chin
on that oar, you can't sink. But it must be done before we are chilled."

He was stripping himself to his underclothes while he talked: and in haste, fearing that he
might feel the hawser slacken and dip--a sign that the tide had turned. Or if the oar floated
out of sight--then too the worst might happen to them. Already Colonel John had plans and hopes,
but freedom was needful if they were to come to anything.

"Come!" he cried impulsively. "Man, you are not a coward, I know it well! Come!"

He let himself into the water as he spoke, and after a moment of hesitation, and with a shiver
of disgust, Bale followed his example, let the rope go, and with quick, nervous strokes bobbed
after him in the direction of the oar. Colonel John deserved the less credit, as he was the
better swimmer. He swam long and slow, with his head low: and his eyes watched his follower.
A half minute of violent exertion, and Bale's outstretched hand clutched the oar. It was a
thick, clumsy implement, and it floated high. In curt, clipped sentences Colonel John bade
him rest his hands on it, and thrust it before him lengthwise, swimming with his feet.

For five minutes nothing was said, but they proceeded slowly and patiently, rising a little
above each wave and trusting--for they could see nothing, and the light wind was in their faces--that
the tide was still seconding their efforts. Colonel John knew that if the shore lay, as he
judged, about half a mile distant, he must, to reach it, swim slowly and reserve his strength.
Though a natural desire to decide the question quickly would have impelled him to greater exertion,
he resisted it as many a man has resisted it, and thereby has saved his life. At the worst,
he reflected that the oar would support them both for a short time. But that meant remaining
stationary and becoming chilled.

They had been swimming for ten minutes, as he calculated, when Bale, who floated higher, cried
joyfully that he could see the land. Colonel John made no answer, he needed all his breath.
But a minute later he too saw it loom low through the fog; and then, in some minutes afterwards,
they felt bottom and waded on to a ledge of rocks which projected a hundred yards from the
mainland eastward of the mouth of the inlet. The tide had served them well by carrying them
a little to the eastward. They sat a moment on the rocks to recover their strength--while the
seagulls flew wailing over them--and for the first time they took in the full gravity of the
catastrophe. Every other man in the boat had perished--so they judged, for there was no stir
on shore. On that they uttered some expressions of pity and of thankfulness; and then, stung
to action by the chill wind, which set their teeth chattering, they got to their feet and scrambled
painfully along the rocks until they reached the marshy bank of the inlet. Thence a pilgrimage
scarcely less painful, through gorse and rushes, brought them at the end of ten minutes to
the jetty.

Here, too, all was quiet. If any of O'Sullivan Og's party had saved themselves they were not
to be seen, nor was there any indication that the accident was known on shore. It was still
early, but little after six, the day Sunday; and apart from the cackling of poultry, and the
grunting of hogs, no sound came from O'Sullivan's house or the hovels about it.

While Colonel John had been picking his way over the rocks and between the gorse bushes, his
thoughts had not been idle; and now, without hesitation, he made along the jetty until the
masts of the French sloop loomed beside it. He boarded the vessel by a plank and looked round
him. There was no watch on deck, but a murmur of talk came from the forecastle and a melancholy
voice piping a French song rose from the depths of the cabin. Colonel John bade Bale follow
him--they were shivering from head to foot--and descended the companion.

The singer was Captain Augustin. He lay on his back in his bunk, while his mate, between sleep
and waking, formed an unwilling audience.

    Tout mal chaussé, tout mal vêtu,

sang the Captain in a doleful voice,

    Pauvre marin, d'où reviens-tu?
      Tout doux! Tout doux!

With the last word on his lips, he called on the name of his Maker, for he saw two half-naked,
dripping figures peering at him through the open door. For the moment he took them, by the
dim light, for the revenants of drowned men; while his mate, a Breton, rose on his elbow and
shrieked aloud.

It was only when Colonel John called them by name that they were reassured, lost their fears,
and recognised in the pallid figures before them their late passenger and his attendant. Then,
as the two Frenchmen sprang to their feet, the cabin rang with oaths and invocations, with
Mon Dieu! and Ma foi! Immediately clothes were fetched, and rough cloths to dry the visitors
and restore warmth to their limbs, and cognac and food--for the two were half starved. Meantime,
and while these comforts were being administered, and half the crew, crouching about the companion,
listened, and volleys of questions rained upon him, Colonel John told very shortly the tale
of their adventures, of the fate that had menaced them, and their narrow escape. In return
he learned that the Frenchmen were virtually prisoners.

"They have taken our equipage, cursed dogs!" Augustin explained, refraining with difficulty
from a dance of rage. "The rudder, the sails, they are not, see you! They have locked all in
the house on shore, that we may not go by night, you understand. And by day the ship of war
beyond, Spanish it is possible, pirate for certain, goes about to sink us if we move! Ah, sacré
nom, that I had never seen this land of swine!"

"Have they a guard over the rudder and the sails?" Colonel John asked, pausing to speak with
the food half way to his mouth.

"I know not. What matter?"

"If not, it were not hard to regain them," Colonel John said, with an odd light in his eyes.

"And the ship of war beyond? What would she be doing?"

"While the fog lies?" Colonel John replied. "Nothing."

"The fog?" Augustin exclaimed. He clapped his hand to his head, ran up the companion and as
quickly returned. A skipper is in a low way who, whatever his position, has no eye for the
weather; and he felt the tacit reproach. "Name of Names!" he cried. "There is a fog like the
inside of Jonah's whale! For the ship beyond I snap the finger at her! She is not! Then forward,
mes braves! Yet tranquil! They have taken the arms!"

"Ay?" Colonel John said, still eating. "Is that so? Then it seems to me we must retake them.
That first."

"What, you?" Augustin exclaimed.

"Why not?" Colonel John responded, looking round him, a twinkle in his eye. "The goods of his
host are in a manner of speaking the house of his host. And it is the duty--as I said once before."

"But is it not that they are--of your kin?"

"That is the reason," Colonel John answered cryptically, and to the skipper's surprise. But
that surprise lasted a very short time. "Listen to me," the Colonel continued. "This goes farther
than you think, and to cure it we must not stop short. Let me speak, and do you, my friends,
listen. Courage, and I will give you not only freedom but a good bargain."

The skipper stared. "How so?" he asked.

Then Colonel John unfolded the plan on which he had been meditating while the waves lapped
his smarting chin, while the gorse bushes pricked his feet, and the stones gibed them. It was
a great plan, and before all things a bold one; so bold that Augustin gasped as it unfolded
itself, and the seamen, who, with the freedom of foreign sailors in a ship of fortune, crowded
the foot of the companion, opened their eyes.

Augustin smacked his lips. "It is what you call magnifique!" he said. "But," he shrugged his
shoulders, "it is not possible!"

"If the fog holds?"

"But if it--what you call--lifts? What then, eh?"

"Through how many storms have you ridden?" the Colonel answered. "Yet if the mast had gone?"

"We had gone! Vraiment!

"That did not keep you ashore."

Augustin cogitated over this for a while. Then, "But we are eight only," he objected. "Myself,
nine."

"And two are eleven," Colonel John replied.

"We do not know the ground."

"I do."

The skipper shrugged his shoulders.

"And they have treated you--but you know how they have treated you," Colonel John went on,
appealing to the lower motive.

The group of seamen who stood about the door growled seamen's oaths.

"There are things that seem hard," the Colonel continued, "and being begun, pouf! they are
done while you think of them!"

Captain Augustin of Bordeaux swelled out his breast. "That is true," he said. "I have done
things like that."

"Then do one more!"

The skipper's eyes surveyed the men's faces. He caught the spark in their eyes. "I will do
it," he cried.

"Good!" Colonel John cried. "The arms first!"

CHAPTER XIII

A SLIP

Flavia McMurrough enjoyed one advantage over her partners in conspiracy. She could rise on
the morning after the night of the bonfires with a clear head and an appetite undiminished
by punch; and probably she was the only one at Morristown of whom this could be said. The morning
light did not break for her on aching eyelids and a brain at once too retentive of the boasts
of the small hours and too sensitive to the perils of the day to come. Colonel John had scarcely
passed away under guard, old Darby had scarcely made his first round--with many an ominous
shake of the head--the slatternly serving-boys had scarcely risen from their beds in the passages,
before she was afoot, gay as a lark, and trilling like one; with spirits prepared for the best
or the worst which the day might bring forth--though she foresaw only the best--and undepressed
even by the blanket of mist that shrouded lake and hills and all the world from view.

If the past night, with its wassail and its mirth, its toasts and its loud-voiced bragging,
might be called "the great night of Morristown," this, the girl promised herself, should more
truly and more fitly be styled "the great day of Ireland." On this day would they begin a work
the end of which no man could see, but which, to the close of time, should shed a lustre on
the name of McMurrough. No more should their native land be swept along, a chained slave, a
handmaid, in the train of a more brutal, a more violent, and a more stupid people! From this
day Ireland's valour, that had never known fit leading, should be recognised for what it was,
her wit be turned to good uses, her old traditions be revived in the light of new glories.
The tears rose to the girl's eyes, her bosom heaved, her heart seemed too large for her, as
she pictured the fruition of the work to be begun this day, and with clasped hands and prayerful
eyes sang her morning hymn.

No more should an Irish gentleman walk swordless and shamed among his equals. No more should
the gallant beast he had bred be seized with contumely in the market-place. No more should
all the nobler services of his native land be closed to him, his faith be banned, his priests
proscribed! No more should he be driven to sell his valour to the highest bidder, and pour
forth his blood in foreign causes, under the walls of old Vienna, and on every stricken field
from Almanza to the Don. For on this day Ireland should rouse herself from the long nightmare,
the oppression of centuries. She should remember her greatness of old time and the blessing
of Patrick; and those who had enslaved her, those who had scorned her and flouted her, should
learn the strength of hands nerved by the love of God and the love of country! This day at
Morristown the day should break.

The tears gushed from her eyes as she thought of this, and with an overflowing heart thanked
Heaven for the grace and favour that assigned her a part in the work. And the halo formed of
those tears ennobled all she saw about her. The men, still sprawling up and down the courtyard
in the abandonment of drink, her brother calling with a pale face and querulous oaths for a
cooling draught, Sir Donny and old Tim Burke, yawning off, like the old topers they were, the
effects of the carouse--the cause and her hopes ennobled all. It was much--may she be forgiven!--if,
in the first enthusiasm of the morning, she gave a single thought to the misguided kinsman
whose opposition had hurried him into trouble, and exposed him to dangers at which she vaguely
guessed.

Fool that he was, she reflected, to pit himself against such men as the Bishop and the Spanish
Admiral! From her window she saw the two walking in the garden with bent heads, aloof from
the yawning crowd, and now appearing beyond the line of Florence yews, now vanishing behind
them. On which she came near to worshipping them. Had they not brought to Ireland, to Kerry,
to Morristown, the craft and skill in counsel, the sagacity and courage, which had won for
them the favour of foreign kings, and raised them high in exile? Lacking their guidance, the
movement might have come to nothing, the most enthusiastic must have wasted their strength.
But they were here to inspire, to lead, to control. Against such men the parlour-captains of
Tralee, the encroaching Pettys, and their like, must fail indeed. And before more worthy opponents
arrived to encounter the patriots, who could say what battles might not be won, what allies gained?

It was a dream, but a golden dream, and when she descended to the living-room she still lived
in it. The girl's lips quivered as she kissed the Bishop's hand and received with bent knees
his episcopal blessing. "And on this house, my daughter," he added, "and on this day!"

"Amen!" she murmured in her heart.

True, breakfast, and the hour after breakfast, gave some pause to her happiness. The men's
nerves were on edge with potheen and excitement, and they had not been at table five minutes
before quarrelling broke out at the lower end of the board. The Spanish officer who was in
attendance on Cammock came to words, and almost to blows, with one of the O'Beirnes, who resented
the notion that the Admiral's safety was not sufficiently secured by the Irish about him. The
peace was kept with difficulty, and so much ill-feeling survived the outbreak that Cammock
thought it prudent to remit two-thirds of the sailors to the ship, and keep the remainder as
far as possible in the background.

This was not a promising beginning, where the numbers were already so scanty that the Bishop
wondered in his heart whether his dupes would dare to pass from words to action. But it was
not all. Some one spoke of Asgill, and of another Justice in the neighbourhood, asserting that
their hearts were with the rising, and that at a later point their aid might be expected. At once,

"The Evil One's spawn!" cried Sir Donny, rising in his place, and speaking under the influence
of great excitement. "If you're for dealing with them, I'm riding! No Protestants! No black
brood of Cromwell for me! I'd as soon never wear sword again as wear it in their company!"

"You're not meaning it, Sir Donny!" Uncle Ulick said.

"Faith, but if he's not, I am!" cried old Tim Burke, rising and banging the table with his
fist. "'Tis what I'm meaning, and devil a bit of a mistake! Just that!"

Another backed him, with so much violence that the most moderate and sensible looked serious,
and it needed the Bishop's interference to calm the storm. "We need not decide one way or the
other," he said, "until they come in." Probably he thought that an unlikely contingency. "There
are arguments on both sides," he continued blandly. "It is true that half-measures are seldom
wise. On the other hand, it was by a Protestant king that France was led back to the true faith.
But of this at another time. I think we must be moving, gentlemen. It grows late."

While the gentry talked thus at table, the courtyard and the space between the house and the
lake began to present, where the mist allowed them to be seen, the lively and animated appearance
which the Irish, ever lovers of a crowd, admire. Food and drink were there served to the barefoot,
shock-headed boys drawn up in bodies under their priests, or under the great men's agents;
and when these matters had been consumed one band after another moved off in the direction
of the rendezvous. This was at the Carraghalin, a name long given to the ruins of an abbey
situate in an upland valley above the waterfall, and a long Irish mile from the house. But
as each troop moved off towards the head of the lake its place was filled in a measure by late-comers,
as well as by companies of women and girls, close-hooded and shawled, who halted before the
house to raise shrill cries of welcome, or, as they passed, stirred the air with their wild
Erse melodies. The orders for all were to take their seats in an orderly fashion and in a mighty
semicircle about a well-known rock situate a hundred yards from the abbey. Tradition reported
that in old days this rock had been a pulpit, and that thence the Irish Apostle had preached
to the heathen. More certainly it had formed a rostrum and the valley a gathering-place in
troubled and more recent times. The turf about it was dry, sweet, and sheep-bitten; on either
side it sloped gently to the rock, while a sentry posted on each of the two low hills which
flanked the vale was a sufficient surety against surprise.

It was not until the last of the peasants had filed off, and the space before the house had
resumed its normal aspect--but for once without its beggars--that the gentry began to make
their way in the same direction. The buckeens were the first to go. Uncle Ulick, with the Spanish
officer and his men, formed the next party. The O'Beirnes, with Sir Donny and Timothy Burke
and a priest or two of a superior order, were not long behind them. The last to leave--and
they left the house with no other guardians than a cook-maid or two--were the Admiral and the
Bishop, honourably escorted, as became their rank, by their host and hostess.

Freed from the wrangling and confusion which the presence of the others bred, Flavia regained
her serenity as she walked. There was nothing, indeed, in the face of nature, in the mist and
the dark day, and the moisture that hung in beads on thorn and furze, to cheer her. But she
drew her spirits from a higher source, and, sanguine and self-reliant, foreseeing naught but
success, stepped proudly along beside the Bishop, who found, perhaps, in her presence and her
courage a make-weight for the gloom of the day.

"You are sure," he said, smiling, "that we shall not lose our way?"

"Ah! and I am sure," she answered, "I could take you blindfold."

"The mist----"

"It stands, my lord, for the mist overhanging this poor land, which our sun shall disperse."

"God grant it!" he said--"God grant it, indeed, my daughter!" But, do what he would, he spoke
without fervour.

They passed along the lake-edge, catching now and then the shimmer of water on their right.
Thence they ascended the steep path that led up the glen of the waterfall to the level of the
platform on which the old tower stood. Leaving this on the right--and only to an informed eye
was it visible--they climbed yet a little higher, and entered a deep driftway that, at the
summit of the gorge, clove its way between the mound behind the tower and the hill on their
left, and so penetrated presently to the valley of the Carraghalin. The mist was thinner here,
the nature of the ground was more perceptible, and they had not proceeded fifty yards along
the sunken way before Cammock, who was leading, in the company of The McMurrough, halted.

"A fine place for a stand," he said, looking about him with a soldierly eye. "And better for
an ambush. Especially on such a morning as this, when you cannot see a man five paces away."

"I trust," the Bishop answered, smiling, "that we shall have no need to make the one, or to
fear the other."

"You could hold this," Flavia asked eagerly, "with such men as we have?"

"Against an army," Cammock answered.

"Against an army!" she murmured, as, her heart beating high with pride, they resumed their
way, Flavia and the Bishop in the van. "Against an army!" she repeated fondly.

The words had not fully left her lips when she recoiled. At the same moment the Bishop uttered
an exclamation, Cammock swore and seized his hilt, The McMurrough turned as if to flee. For
on the path close to them, facing them with a pistol in his hand, stood Colonel Sullivan.

He levelled the pistol at the head of the nearest man, and though Flavia, with instant presence
of mind, struck it up, the act helped little. Before Cammock could clear his blade, or his
companions back up his resistance, four or five men, of Colonel John's following, flung themselves
on them from behind. They were seized, strong arms pinioned them, knives were at their throats.
In a twinkling, and while they still expected death, sacks were dragged over their heads and
down to their waists, and they were helpless.

It was well, it was neatly done; and completely done, with a single drawback. The men had not
seized Flavia, and, white as paper, but with rage not fear, she screamed shrilly for help--screamed
twice.

She would have screamed a third time, but Colonel Sullivan, who knew that they were scarcely
two furlongs from the meeting-place, and from some hundreds of merciless foes, did the only
thing possible. He flung his arms round her, pressed her face roughly against his shoulder,
smothered her cries remorselessly. Then raising her, aided by the man with the musket, he bore
her, vainly struggling--and, it must be owned, scratching--after the others out of the driftway.

The thing done, the Colonel's little band of Frenchmen knew that they had cast the die, and
must now succeed or perish. The girl's screams, quickly suppressed, might not have given the
alarm; but they had set nerves on edge. The prick of a knife was used--and often--to apprise
the blinded prisoners that if they did not move they would be piked. They were dragged, a seaman
on either side of each captive, over some hundred paces of rough ground, through the stream,
and so into a path little better than a sheep-track which ran round the farther side of the
hill of the tower, and descended that way to the more remote bank of the lake. It was a rugged
path, steep and slippery, dropping precipitously a couple of feet in places, and more than
once following the bed of the stream. But it was traceable even in the mist, and the party
from the sloop, once put on it, could follow it.

If no late-comer to the meeting encountered them, Colonel John, to whom every foot of the ground
was familiar, saw no reason, apart from the chances of pursuit, why they should not get the
prisoners, whom they had so audaciously surprised, as far as the lower end of the lake. There
he and his party must fall again into the Skull road and risk the more serious uncertainties
of the open way. All, however, depended on time. If Flavia's screams had not given the alarm,
it would soon be given by the absence of those whom the people had come to meet. The missing
leaders would be sought, pursuit would be organised. Yet, if before that pursuit reached the
foot of the lake, the fugitives had passed into the road, the raiders would stand a fair chance.
They would at least have a start, the sloop in front of them, and their enemies behind them.

But, with peril on every side of them, Flavia was still the main, the real difficulty. Colonel
Sullivan could not hope to carry her far, even with the help of the man who fettered her feet,
and bore part of her weight. Twice she freed her mouth and uttered a stifled cry. The Colonel
only pressed her face more ruthlessly to him--his men's lives depended on her silence. But
the sweat stood on his brow; and, after carrying her no more than three hundred yards, he staggered
under the unwilling burden. He was on the path now and descending, and he held out a little
farther. But presently, when he hoped that she had swooned, she fell to struggling more desperately.
He thought, on this, that he might be smothering her; and he relaxed his hold to allow her
to breathe. For reward she struck him madly, furiously in the face, and he had to stifle her again.

But his heart was sick. It was a horrible, a brutal business, a thing he had not foreseen on
board the Cormorant. He had supposed that she would faint at the first alarm; and his courage,
which would have faced almost any event with coolness, quailed. He could not murder the girl,
and she would not be silent. No, she would not be silent! Short of setting her down and binding
her hand and foot, which would take time, and was horrible to imagine, he could not see what
to do. And the man with him, who saw the rest of the party outstripping them, and as good as
disappearing in the fog, who fancied, with every step, that he heard the feet of merciless
pursuers overtaking them, was frantic with impatience.

Then Colonel John, with the sweat standing on his brow, did a thing to which he afterwards
looked back with great astonishment.

"Give me your knife," he said, with a groan, "and hold her hands! We must silence her, and
there is only one way!"

The man, terrified as he was, and selfish as terrified men are, recoiled from the deed. "My
God!" he said. "No!"

"Yes!" Colonel John retorted fiercely. "The knife!--the knife, man! And do you hold her hands!"

With a jerk he lifted her face from his breast--and this time she neither struck him nor screamed.
The man had half-heartedly drawn his knife. The Colonel snatched it from him. "Now her hands!"
he said. "Hold her, fool! I know where to strike!"

She opened her mouth to shriek, but no sound came. She had heard, she understood; and for a
moment she could neither struggle nor cry. That terror which rage and an almost indomitable
spirit had kept at bay seized her; the sight of the gleaming death poised above her paralysed
her throat. Her mouth gaped, her eyes glared at the steel; then, with a queer sobbing sound,
she fainted.

"Thank God!" the Colonel cried. And there was indeed thankfulness in his voice. He thrust the
knife back into the man's hands, and, raising the girl again in his arms, "There is a house
a little below," he said. "We can leave her there! Hurry, man!--hurry!"

He had not traversed that road for twenty years, but his memory had not tricked him. Less than
fifty paces below they came on a cabin, close to the foot of the waterfall. The door was not
fastened--for what, in such a place, was there to steal?--and Colonel John thrust it open with
his foot. The interior was dark, the place was almost windowless; but he made out the form
of an old crone who, nursing her knees, crouched with a pipe in her mouth beside a handful
of peat. Seeing him, the woman tottered to her feet with a cry of alarm, and shaded her bleared
eyes from the inrush of daylight. She gabbled shrilly, but she knew only Erse, and Colonel
John attempted no explanation.

"The lady of the house," he said, in that tongue. And he laid Flavia, not ungently, but very
quickly, on the floor. He turned about without another word, shut the door on the two, and
hurried along the path at the full stretch of his legs. In half a minute he had overtaken his
companion, and the two pressed on together on the heels of the main party.

The old beldame, left alone with the girl, viewed her with an astonishment which would have
been greater if she had not reached that age at which all sensations become dulled. How the
Lady of the House, who was to her both Power and Providence, came to be there, and there in
that state, passed her conception. But she had the sense to loosen the girl's frock at the
neck, to throw water on her face, and to beat her hands. In a very few minutes Flavia, who
had never swooned before--fashionable as the exercise was at this period in feminine society--sighed
once or twice, and came to herself.

"Where am I?" she muttered. Still for some moments she continued to look about her in a dazed
way; at length she recognised the old woman, and the cottage. Then she remembered, with a moan,
what had happened--the ambuscade, the flight, the knife.

She could not turn whiter, but she shuddered and closed her eyes. At last, with shrinking,
she looked at her dress. "Am I--hurt?" she whispered.

The old woman did not understand, but she patted Flavia's hand. Meanwhile the girl saw that
there was no blood on her dress, and she found courage to raise her hand to her throat. She
found no wound. At that she smiled faintly. Then she began to cry--for she was a woman.

But, broken as she was by that moment of terror, Flavia's indulgence in the feminine weakness
was short, for it was measured by the time she devoted to thoughts of her own fortunes. Quickly,
very quickly, she overcame her weakness; she stood up, she understood, and she extended her
arms in rage and grief and unavailing passion. That rage which treachery arouses in the generous
breast, that passion which an outrage upon hospitality kindles in the meanest, that grief which
ruined plans and friends betrayed have bred a thousand times in Irish bosoms--she felt them
all, and intensely. She would that the villains had killed her! She would that they had finished
her life! Why should she survive, except for vengeance? For not only were her hopes for Ireland
fallen; not only were those who had trusted themselves to The McMurrough perishing even now
in the hands of ruthless foes; but her brother, her dear, her only brother, whom her prayers,
her influence had brought into this path, he too was snared, of his fate also there could be
no doubt!

She felt all that was most keen, most poignant, of grief, of anger, of indignation. But the
sharpest pang of all--had she analysed her feelings--was inflicted by the consciousness of
failure, and of failure verging on the ignominious. The mature take good and evil fortune as
they come; but to fail at first setting out in life, to be outwitted in the opening venture,
to have to acknowledge that experience is, after all, a formidable foe--these are mishaps which
sour the magnanimous and poison young blood.

She had not known before what it was to hate. Now she only lived to hate: to hate the man who
had shown himself so much cleverer than her friends, who, in a twinkling, and by a single blow,
had wrecked her plans, duped her allies, betrayed her brother, made her name a laughing-stock,
robbed Ireland of a last chance of freedom! who had held her in his arms, terrified her, mastered
her! Oh, why had she swooned? Why had she not rather, disregarding her womanish weakness, her
womanish fears, snatched the knife from him and plunged it into his treacherous breast? Why? Why?

CHAPTER XIV

THE COLONEL'S TERMS

Passive courage--courage in circumstances in which a man cannot help himself, but must abide
with bound hands whatever a frowning fortune and his enemy's spite threaten--is so much higher
a virtue than that which carries him through hot emprises, and is so much more common among
women, that the palm for bravery may fairly be given to the weaker sex. True, it is not in
the first face of danger that a woman shines; time must be given her to string her nerves.
But grant time and there is no calamity so dreadful, no fate so abhorrent to trembling humanity,
that a woman has not met it smiling: in the sack of cities, or in the slow agony of towns perishing
of hunger, in the dungeon, or in the grip of disease.

The bravest men share this gift, and some whom the shock of conflict appals. Cammock and the
Bishop belonged to the former class. Seized in a moment of activity, certain only that they
were in hostile hands, and hurried, blind and helpless, to an unknown doom, they might have
been pardoned had they succumbed to despair. But they did not succumb. The habit of danger,
and a hundred adventures and escapes, had hardened them; they felt more rage than fear. Stunned
for a moment by the audacity of the attack, and humiliated by its success, they had not been
dragged a hundred yards before they began to reason and to calculate the chances. If the purpose
of those into whose hands they had fallen were to murder them they would have been piked on
the spot. On the other hand, if their captors' object was to deliver them to English justice,
it was a long way to the Four Courts, and farther to Westminster. Weeks, if not months, must
elapse before they stood at the bar on a capital charge; much water must flow under the bridges,
and many a thing might happen, by force or fraud, in the interval.

So, half-stifled and bitterly chagrined as they were, they did not waste their strength in
a vain resistance. They allowed themselves to be pushed this way and pulled that, took what
care they could of their limbs, and for their thoughts gave as many to vengeance as to safety.
They had known many reverses in many lands. They did not believe that this was the end. And
presently it would be their turn.

With the third of the prisoners it was otherwise. The courage of the Irish is more conspicuous
in the advance than in the retreat; and even of that recklessness in fight, that joy in the
conflict, which is their birthright and their fame, Flavia had taken more than her woman's
share. In James McMurrough's mean and narrow nature there was small room for the generous passions.
Unlike his sister, he would have struck the face of no man in whose power he lay; nor was he
one to keep a stout heart when his hands were bound. Conscience does not always make cowards.
But he knew into whose hands he had fallen, he knew the fate to which he had himself consigned
Colonel John--or would have consigned him but for self-interest--and his heart was water, his
knees were aspens, his hair rose, as, helpless, he pictured in livid hues the fate that now
awaited himself.

As he had meant to do to the other, it would be done to him! He felt the cruel pike rend the
gasping throat; he had heard that it was the most painful death that a man could die, and that
the shrieks of men dying on the pike-point could be heard a mile! Or would they throw him,
bound and blind as he was, into the sullen lake--yes, that was it! They were carrying him that
way, they were taking him to the lake.

And once and twice, in the insanity of fear, he fought with his bonds until the blood came,
even throwing himself down, until the men, out of patience, pricked him savagely, and drove
him, venting choked cries of pain, to his feet again. After the second attempt, if attempt
that could be called which had no reasoning behind it, but only sheer animal fear, he staggered
on, beaten, hopeless. He was aware that Colonel John was not with them; and then, again, that
he was with them; and then--they were on the wide track now between the end of the lake and
the sea--that they were proceeding with increased caution. That might have given a braver man
hope, the hope of rescue. But rescue had itself terrors for The McMurrough. His captors, if
pressed, might hasten the end, or his friends might strike him in the mêlée. And so, with every
furlong of the forced journey, he died a fresh death.

And the furlongs seemed interminable, quickly and roughly as he was hurried along. In his terror
the pains of his position, the heat, the friction of the rough sacking, the want of air, went
for little. But at last he heard the fall of the waves on the shore, gorse pricked his legs
or tripped him up, the men about him spoke louder, he caught a distant hail. Laughter, and
exclamations of triumph reached him, and the voices of men who had won in spite of odds.

Then a boat grated on the pebbles, he was lifted into it, and thrust down in the bottom. He
felt it float off, and heard the measured sound of the oars in the thole-pins. A few moments
elapsed, the sound of the oars ceased, the boat bumped something. He was raised to his feet,
his hands were unbound, he was set on a rope-ladder, and bidden to climb. Obeying with shaking
knees, he was led across what he guessed to be a deck, and down steep stairs. Then his head
was freed from the sack, and, sweating, dishevelled, pale with exhaustion and fear, he looked
about him.

The fog was still thick outside, turning day into twilight, and the cabin lamp had been lit
and swung above the narrow table, filling the lowbrowed, Dutch-like interior with a strong
but shifting light. Behind the table Colonel John and the skipper leant against a bulkhead;
before them, on the nearer side of the table, were ranged the three captives. Behind these,
again, the dark, grinning faces of the sailors, with their tarred pigtails and flashing eyes,
filled the doorway; and, beyond doubt, viewed under the uncertain light of the lamp, they showed
a wild and savage crew. As James McMurrough looked, his hopes, which had risen during the last
few minutes, sank. Escape, or chance of escape, there was none. He was helpless, and what those
into whose hands he had fallen determined, he must suffer. For a moment his heart stood still,
his mouth gaped, he swayed on his feet. Then he clutched the table and steadied himself.

"I am--giddy," he muttered.

"I am sorry that you have been put to so much inconvenience," Colonel John answered civilly.

The words, the tone, might have reassured him, if he had not suspected a devilish irony. Even
when Colonel John proceeded to direct one of the men to open a porthole and admit more air,
he derived no comfort from the attention. But steady! Colonel John was speaking again.

"You, too, gentlemen," he said, addressing Cammock and the Bishop, "I am sorry that I have
been forced to put you to so much discomfort. But I saw no other way of effecting my purpose.
And," he went on with a smile, "if you ask my warranty for acting as I have acted----"

"I do!" the Bishop said between his teeth. The Admiral said nothing, but breathed hard.

"Then I can only vouch," the Colonel answered, "the authority by virtue of which you seized
me yesterday. I give you credit, reverend father, and you, Admiral, for a belief that in acting
as you did you were doing your duty; that in creating a rising here you were serving a cause
which you think worthy of sacrifice--the sacrifice of others as well as of yourselves. But
I tell, you, as frankly, I feel it my duty to thwart that purpose and prevent that rising;
and for the moment fortune is with me. The game, gentlemen, is for the present in my hand;
the move is mine. Now I need hardly say," Colonel John continued, with an appearance almost
of bonhomie, "that I do not wish to proceed to extremities, or to go farther than is necessary
to secure my purpose. We might set sail for the nearest garrison port, and I might hand you
over to the English authorities, assured that they would pay such a reward as would compensate
the shipmaster. But far be it from me to do that! I would have no man's blood on my hands.
And though I say at once I would not shrink, were there no other way of saving innocent lives,
from sending you to the scaffold----"

"A thousand thanks to you!" the Bishop said. But, brave man as he was, the irony in his voice
masked relief; and not then, but a moment later, he passed his handkerchief across his brow.
Cammock said nothing, but the angry, bloodshot eyes which he fixed on the Colonel lost a little
of their ferocity.

"I say, I would not shrink from doing that," Colonel John continued mildly, "were it necessary.
Fortunately for us all, it is not necessary. Still I must provide against your immediate return,
against immediate action on your part. I must see that the movement which will die in your
absence is not revived by any word from you, or by tidings of you! To that end, gentlemen,
I must put you to the inconvenience of a prolonged sea-voyage."

"If I could speak with you in private?" the Bishop said.

"You will have every opportunity," Colonel John answered, smiling, "of speaking to Captain
Augustin in private."

"Still, sir, if I could see you alone I think I could convince you----"

"You shall have every opportunity of convincing Captain Augustin," Colonel John returned, smiling
more broadly, "and of convincing him by the same means which I venture to think, reverend sir,
you would employ with me. To be plain, he will take you to sea for a certain period, and at
the end of that time, if your arguments are sufficiently weighty, he will land you at a convenient
harbour on the French shore. He will be at the loss of his cargo, and that loss I fear you
will have to make good. Something, too, he may charge by way of interest, and for your passage."
By this time the sailors were on the broad grin. "A trifle, perhaps, for landing dues. But
I have spoken with him to be moderate, and I doubt not that within a few weeks you, Admiral
Cammock, will be with your command, and the reverend father will be pursuing his calling in
another place."

For a moment there was silence, save for a titter from the group of seamen. Then Cammock laughed--a
curt, barking laugh. "A bite!" he said. "A d----d bite! If I can ever repay it, sir, I will!
Be sure of that!"

Colonel John bowed courteously.

The Bishop took it otherwise. The veins on his forehead swelled, and he had much ado to control
himself. The truth was, he feared ridicule more than he feared danger, perhaps more than he
feared death; and such an end to such an enterprise was hard to bear. To have set forth to
raise the south of Ireland, to have undertaken a diversion that would never be forgotten, that,
on the contrary, would be marked by historians as a main factor in the restoration of the house
of Stuart--to have embarked on such an enterprise and to be deported like any troublesome villager
delivered to the pressgang for his hamlet's good! To end thus! It was too much.

"Is there no alternative?" he asked, barely able to speak for the chagrin that took him by
the throat.

"One, if you prefer it," Colonel Sullivan answered suavely. "You can take your chance with
the English authorities. For myself, I lean to the course I have suggested."

"If money were paid down--now? Now, sir?"

"It would not avail."

"Much money?"

"No."

The Bishop glared at him for a few seconds. Then his face relaxed, his eyes grew mild, his
chin sank on his breast. His fingers drummed on the table. "His will be done!" he said--"His
will be done! I was not worthy."

His surrender seemed to sting Cammock. Perhaps in the course of their joint adventures he had
come to know and to respect his companion, and felt more for him than for himself.

"If I had you on my quarter-deck for only half an hour," he growled, "I would learn who was
the better man! Ah, my man, I would!"

"The doubt flatters me," Colonel John answered, viewing them both with great respect; for he
saw that, bad or good, they were men. Then, "That being settled," he continued, "I shall ask
you, gentlemen, to go on deck for a few moments, that I may say a word to my kinsman."

"He is not to go with us?"

"That remains to be seen," Colonel John replied, a note of sternness in his voice. Still they
hesitated, and he stood; but at last, in obedience to his courteous gesture, they bowed, turned--with
a deep sigh on the Bishop's part--and clambered up the companion. The seamen had already vanished
at a word from Augustin, who himself proceeded to follow his prisoners on deck.

"Sit down!" Colonel Sullivan said, the same sternness in his voice. And he sat down on his
side of the table, while James McMurrough, with a sullen look but a beating heart, took his
seat on the other. The fear of immediate death had left the young man; he tried to put on an
air of bravado, but with so little success that if his sister had seen him thus she had been
blind indeed if she had not discerned, between these two men seated opposite to one another,
the difference that exists between the great and the small, the strong and the infirm of purpose.

It was significant of that difference that the one was silent at will, while the other spoke
because he had not the force to be silent.

"What are you wanting with me?" the young man asked.

"Is it not you," Colonel John answered, with a piercing look, "will be wanting to know where
O'Sullivan Og is--O'Sullivan Og, whom you sent to do your bidding this morning?"

The young man turned a shade paler, and his bravado fell from him. His breath seemed to stop.
Then, "Where?" he whispered--"where is he?"

"Where, I pray, Heaven," Colonel John answered, with the same solemnity, "may have mercy upon him."

"He is not dead?" The McMurrough cried, his voice rising on the last word.

"I have little doubt he is," the Colonel replied. "Dead, sir! And the men who were with him--dead
also, or the most part of them. Dead, James McMurrough, on the errand they went for you."

The shock of the news struck the young man dumb, and for some moments he stared at the Colonel,
his face colourless. At length, "All dead?" he whispered. "Not all?"

"For what I know," Colonel John replied. "Heaven forgive them!" And, in half a dozen sentences,
he told him what had happened. Then, "They are the first fruits," he continued sternly, "God
grant that they be the last fruits of this reckless plot! Not that I blame them, who did but
as they were bid. Nor do I blame any man, nor any woman who embarked on this--reckless as it
was, foolish as it was--with a single heart, either in ignorance of the things that I know,
or knowing them, for the sake of an end which they set above their own lives. But--but"--and
Colonel John's voice grew more grave--"there was one who had neither of these two excuses.
There was one who was willing to do murder, not in blind obedience, nor for a great cause,
but to serve his own private interest and his own advantage!"

"No! no!" the young man cried, cowering before him. "It is not true!"

"One who was ready to do murder," Colonel John continued pitilessly, "because it suited him
to remove a man!"

"No! no!" the wretched youth cried, almost grovelling before him. "It was all of them!--it
was all!"

"It was not all!" Colonel John retorted; but there was a keenness in his face which showed
that he had still something to learn.

"It was--those two-on deck!" The McMurrough cried eagerly. "I swear it was! They said--it was
necessary."

"They were one with you in condemning! Be it so! I believe you! But who spared?"

"I!" The McMurrough cried, breathlessly eager to exculpate himself. "It was I alone. I! I swear
it. I sent the boy!"

"You spared? Yes, and you alone!" the Colonel made answer. "So I thought, and out of your own
mouth you are condemned. You spared because you learned that I had made a will, and you feared
lest that which had passed to me in trust might pass to a stranger for good and all! You spared
because it was--because you thought it was to your interest, your advantage to spare! I say,
out of your own mouth you are condemned."

James McMurrough had scarcely force to follow the pitiless reasoning by which the elder man
convicted him. But his conscience, his knowledge of his own motives, filled the hiatus, and
what his tongue did not own his colourless face, his terrified eyes, confessed.

"You have fallen into our hands," Colonel John continued, grave as fate. "Why should we not
deal with you as you would have dealt with us? No!"--the young man by a gesture had appealed
to those on deck, to their escape, to their impunity--"no! They may have consented to my death;
but as the judge condemns, or the soldier kills; you--you, for your private profit and advantage.
Nevertheless, I shall not deal so with you. You can go as they are going--abroad, to return
at a convenient season, and I hope a wiser man. Or----"

"Or--what?" the young man cried hurriedly.

"Or you can stay here," Colonel John continued, "and we will treat the past as if it had not
been. But on a condition."

James's colour came back. "What'll you be wanting?" he muttered, averting his gaze.

"You must swear that you will not pursue this foolish plan further. That first."

"What can I be doing without them?" was the sullen answer.

"Very true," Colonel John rejoined. "But you must swear also, my friend, that you will not
attempt anything against me, nor be party to anything."

"What'd I be doing?"

"Don't lie!" the Colonel replied, losing his temper for a single instant. "You know what you
have done, and therefore what you'd be likely to do. I've no time to bandy words, and you know
how you stand. Swear on your hope of salvation to those two things, and you may stay. Refuse,
and I make myself safe by your absence. That is all I have to say."

The young man had the sense to know that he was escaping lightly. The times were rough, the
district was lawless, he had embarked--how foolishly he saw--on an enterprise too high for
him. He was willing enough to swear that he would not pursue that enterprise further. But the
second undertaking stuck in his gizzard. He hated Colonel John. For the past wrong, for the
past defeat, above all for the present humiliation, ay, and for the very magnanimity which
spared him, he, the weak spirit, hated the strong with a furious, if timid malignity.

"I'm having no choice," he said, shrugging his shoulders.

"Very good," Colonel John answered curtly. And, going to the door, he called Bale from his
station by the hatchway, and despatched him to the Bishop and to Admiral Cammock, requesting
them to do him the honour to descend.

They came readily enough, in the hope of some favourable turn. But the Colonel's words quickly
set them right.

"Gentlemen," he said politely, "I know you to be men of honour in private life. For this reason
I have asked you to be present as witnesses to the bargain between my cousin and myself. Blood
is thicker than water: he has no mind to go abroad, and I have no mind to send him against
his will. But his presence, after what has passed, is a standing peril to myself. To meet this
difficulty, and to free me from the necessity of banishing him, he is ready to swear by all
he holds sacred, and upon his honour, that he will attempt nothing against me, nor be a party
to it. Is that so, sir?" the speaker continued. "Do you willingly, in the presence of these
gentlemen, give that undertaking?"

The young man, with averted eyes and a downcast face, nodded.

"I am afraid I must trouble you to speak," Colonel John said.

"I do," he muttered, looking at no one.

"Further, that you will not within six months attempt anything against the Government?" Colonel
John continued.

"I will not."

"Very good. I accept that undertaking, and I thank these gentlemen for their courtesy in condescending
to act as witnesses. Admiral Cammock and you, reverend father," Colonel John continued, "it
remains but to bid you farewell, and to ask you to believe"--the Colonel paused--"that I have
not pushed further than was necessary the advantage I gained."

"By a neat stroke, Colonel Sullivan," the Bishop replied, with a rather sour smile, "not to
say a bold one. I'm not denying it. But one, I'd have you notice, that cannot be repeated."

"Maybe not," the Colonel answered. "I am content to think that for some time to come I have
transferred your operations, gentlemen, to a sphere where I am not concerned for the lives
of the people."

"There are things more precious than lives," the Bishop said.

"I admit it. More by token I'm blaming you little--only you see, sir, I differ. That is all."

With that Colonel Sullivan bowed and left the cabin, and The McMurrough, who had listened to
the colloquy with the air of a whipped hound, slunk after him. On deck the Colonel and Augustin
talked apart for a moment, then the former signed to the young man to go down into the boat,
which lay alongside with a couple of men at the oars, and Bale seated in the sternsheets. The
fog still hung upon the water, and the land was hidden. The young man could not see where they lay.

After the lapse of a minute or two Colonel John joined him, and the rowers pushed off, while
Augustin and the crew leant over the rail to see them go, and to send after them a torrent
of voluble good wishes. A very few, strokes of the oars brought the passengers within misty
view of the land; in less than two minutes after leaving the Cormorant the boat grated on the
rocks, and the Colonel, James McMurrough, and Bale landed. The young man made out that they
were some half-mile eastward of Skull Harbour.

Bale stayed to exchange a few words with the seamen, while Colonel John and The McMurrough
set off along the beach. They had not walked fifty yards before the fog isolated them; they
were alone. And astonishment filled the young man, and grew as they walked. Did Colonel John,
after all that had happened, mean to return to Morristown? to establish himself calmly--he,
alone--in the midst of the conspirators whose leaders he had removed?

It seemed incredible! For though he, James McMurrough, thirst for revenge as he might, was
muzzled by his oath, what of the others? What of Sir Donny and old Timothy Burke? What of the
two O'Beirnes? Nay, what of his sister, whom he could fancy more incensed, more vindictive,
more dangerous than them all? What, finally, of the barbarous rout of peasants, ready to commit
any violence at a word from him?

And still the Colonel walked on by his side. And now they were in sight of Skull--of the old
tower and the house by the jetty, looming large through the dripping mist. And at last Colonel
John spoke.

"It was fortunate that I made my will as I came through Paris," he said.

CHAPTER XV

FEMINA FURENS

The Irish of that day, with all their wit and all their courage, had the bad habit of looking
abroad for leaders. Colonel John had run little risk of being wrong in taking for granted that
the meeting at the Carraghalin, mysteriously robbed of the chiefs from over-seas, whose presence
had brought the movement to a head, would disperse; either amid the peals of Homeric laughter
that in Ireland greet a monster jest, or, in sadder mood, cursing the detested Saxon for one
more added to the many wrongs of a downtrodden land.

Had Flavia indeed escaped, had the raid which Colonel Sullivan had so audaciously conceived
failed to embrace her, the issue might have been different. Had she appeared upon the scene
at the critical moment, her courage and enthusiasm might have supported the spirits of the
assemblage and kept it together. But Uncle Ulick had not the force to do this: much less had
old Timothy Burke or Sir Donny. Uncle Ulick, we know, expected little good from the rising;
he was prepared for any, the worst mishap; while the faith of the older men in any change for
the better was not robust enough to stand alone or to resist the first blast of doubt.

Their views indeed were more singular than cheerful.

"Very like," Sir Donny said, with a fallen under-lip, "the ould earth's opened her mouth and
swallowed them. She's tired, small blame to her, with all the heretics burdening her and tormenting
her--the cream of hell's fire to them!"

"Whisht, man!" the other answered. "Be easy; you're forgetting one's a bishop. Small chance
of the devil's tackling him, and, like enough the holy water and all ready to his hand!"

"Then I'm not knowing what it is," the first pronounced hopelessly.

"There you speak truth, Sir Donny," Tim Burke answered. "Is it they can be losing their way
in the least taste of fog there is, do you think?"

"And the young lady knowing the path, so that she'd be walking it blindfold in the dark!"

"I'm fearing, then, it will be the garr'son from Tralee," was Uncle Ulick's contribution. And
he shook his head. "The saints be between us and them, and grant we'll not be seeing more of
them than we like, and sooner!"

"Amen to that same!" replied old Timothy Burke, with an uneasy look behind him.

There was nothing comforting in this. And the messengers sent to learn what was amiss and why
the expected party did not arrive had as little cheer to give. They could learn nothing. On
which Uncle Ulick and his fellows rubbed their heads: the small men wondered. A few panic-stricken,
began to slip away, but the mass were faithful. An hour went by in this trying uncertainty,
and a second and part of a third; and messengers departed and came, and there were rumours
and alarms, and presently something like the truth got abroad; and there was talk of pursuit,
and a band of young stalwarts was detailed and sent off. Still the greater part of the assemblage,
with Irish patience, remained seated in ranks on the slopes of the hills, the women with their
drugget shawls drawn over their heads, the men with their frieze coats hanging loose about
them. The chill mist which clung to the hillsides, and the atmosphere of doubt which overhung
all, were a poor exchange for the roaring bonfires, the good cheer, the enthusiasm, the merriment
of the previous evening. But the Irish peasant, if he be less staunch at the waiting--even
as he is more forward in the hand-to-hand than his Scottish cousins--has the peasant's gift
of endurance; and in the most trying hours--in ignorance, in doubt, in danger--has often held
his ground in dependence on his betters, with a result pitiful in the reading. For too often
the great have abandoned the little, the horse has borne off the rider, and the naked footman,
surprised, surrounded, out-matched, and put to the sword, has paid for all.

But on this day a time came, about high noon, when the assemblage--and the fog--began at last
to melt. Sir Donny was gone, and old Tim Burke of Maamtrasna. They had slipped homewards, by
little-known tracks across the peat hags; and, shamefaced and fearful of the consequences,
the spirit all gone out of them, had turned their minds to oaths and alibis. They had been
in trouble before, and were taken to know; and their departure sapped the O'Beirnes' resolution,
whose uneasy faces as they talked together spread the contagion. Uncle Ulick and several of
the buckeens were away on the search; the handful of Spanish seamen had returned to the house
or to the ship: there was no one to check the defection when it set in. An hour after Sir Donny
had slipped away, the movement which might have meant so much to so many was spent. The slopes
about the ruined gables which they called Carraghalin, and which were all that remained of
the once proud abbey, had returned to their wonted solitude; where hundreds had sat a short
hour before the eagle hovered, the fox turned his head and scented the wind. Even the house
at Morristown had so far become itself again that a scarcity, rather than a plenitude of life,
betrayed the past night of orgy; and a quietness beyond the ordinary, the things that had been
dreamed. The garrison of Tralee, the Protestant Settlement at Kenmare, facts which had been
held distant and negligible in the first flush of hope and action, now seemed to the fearful
fancy many an Irish mile nearer and many a shade more real.

Doubtless, in the minds of some, a secret thankfulness that, after all, they were not required
to take the leap, relieved the disappointment and lessened the shame. They were well out of
an ugly scrape, they reflected; well clear of the ugly shadow of the gallows--always supposing
that no informer appeared. It might even be the hand of Providence, they thought, that had
removed their leaders, and so held them back. They might think themselves happy to be quit
of it for the fright.

But there was one--one who found no such consolation; one to whom the issue was pure loss,
a shameful defeat, the end of hopes, the defeat of prayers that had never risen to heaven more
purely than that morning.

Flavia sat with her eyes on the dead peat that cumbered the hearth--for in the general excitement
the fire had been suffered to go out--and in a stupor of misery refused to be comforted. Of
her plans, of her devotion, of her lofty resolves, this was the result. She had aspired, God
knew how honestly and earnestly, for her race downtrodden and her faith despised, and this
was the bitter fruit. Nor was it only the girl's devotion to her country and to her faith that
lay sore wounded: her vanity suffered, and perhaps more keenly. The enterprise that was to
have glorified the name of McMurrough, that was to have raised that fallen race, that was to
have made that distant province blessed among the provinces of Ireland, had come to an end,
derisive and contemptible, before it was born. Her spirit, unbroken by experience and untrained
to defeat, fearing before all things ridicule, dashed itself against the dreadful conviction,
the dreadful fact. She could hardly believe that all was over. She could hardly realise that
the cup was no longer at her lip, that the bird had escaped from the hand. But she looked from
the window; and, lo, the courtyard which had hummed and seethed was dead and silent. In one
corner a knot of men were carrying out the arms and the powder, and were preparing to bury
them. In another, a woman--it was Sullivan Og's widow--sat weeping. It was the Hic jacet of
the great Rising that was to have been, and that was to have regenerated Ireland!

And "You must kill him!" she cried, with livid cheeks and blazing eyes. "If you do not, I will!"

Uncle Ulick, who had heard the story of the ambush, and beyond doubt was one of those who felt
more relief than disappointment, stretched his legs uneasily. He longed to comfort her, but
he did not know what to say. Moreover, he was afraid of her in this mood.

"You must kill him!" she repeated.

"We'll talk of that," he said, "when we see him."

"You must kill him!" the girl repeated passionately. "Or I will! If you are a man, if you are
an Irishman, if you are a Sullivan, kill him, the shame of your race! Or I will!"

"If he had been on our side," Uncle Ulick answered soberly, "instead of against us, I'm thinking
we should have done better."

The girl drew in her breath sharply, pierced to the quick by the thought. Simultaneously the
big man started, but for another reason. His eyes were on the window, and they saw a sight
which his mind declined to believe. Two men had entered the courtyard--had entered with astonishing,
with petrifying nonchalance, as it seemed to him. For the first was Colonel Sullivan. The second--but
the second slunk at the heels of the first with a hang-dog air--was James McMurrough.

Fortunately Flavia, whose eyes were glooming on the cold hearth and the extinct ashes, fit
image of her dead hopes, had her back to the casement. Uncle Ulick rose. His thoughts came
with a shock against the possibility that Colonel John had the garrison of Tralee at his back!
But, although The McMurrough had all the appearance of a prisoner, Ulick thrust away the notion
as soon as it occurred. To clear his mind, he looked to see how the men engaged in getting
out the powder were taking it. They had ceased to work, and were staring with all their eyes.
Something in their bearing and their attitudes told Uncle Ulick that the notion which had occurred
to him had occurred to them, and that they were prepared to run at the least alarm.

"His blood be on his own head!" he muttered. But he did not say it in the tone of a man who
meant it.

"Amen!" she cried, her back still turned to the window, her eyes brooding on the cold hearth.
The words fell in with her thoughts.

By this time Colonel Sullivan was within four paces of the door. In a handturn he would be
in the room, he would be actually in the girl's presence--and Uncle Ulick shrank from the scene
which must follow. Colonel John was, indeed, and plainly, running on his fate. Already the
O'Beirnes, awakening from their trance of astonishment, were closing in behind him with grim
faces; and short of the garrison of Tralee the big man saw no help for him; well-nigh--so strongly
did even he feel on the matter--he desired none. But Flavia must have no part in it. In God's
name, let the girl be clear of it!

The big man took two steps to the door, opened it, slipped through, and closed it behind him.
His breast as good as touched that of Colonel Sullivan, who was on the threshold. Behind the
Colonel was James McMurrough; behind James were the two O'Beirnes and two others, of whose
object, as they cut off the Colonel's retreat, no man who saw their faces could doubt.

For once, in view of the worse things that might happen in the house, Ulick was firm. "You
can't come in!" he said, his face pale and frowning. He had no word of greeting for the Colonel.
"You can't come in!" he repeated, staring straight at him.

The Colonel turned and saw the four men with arms in their hands spreading out behind him.
He understood. "You had better let me in," he said gently. "James will talk to them."

"James----"

"You had better speak to them," Colonel John continued, addressing his companion. "And you,
Ulick----"

"You can't come in," Ulick repeated grimly.

James McMurrough interposed in his harshest tone. "An end to this!" he cried. "Who the devil
are you to bar the door, Ulick! And you, Phelim and Morty, be easy a minute till you hear me
speak."

Ulick still barred the way. "James," he said, in a voice little above a whisper, "you don't
know----"

"I know enough!" The McMurrough answered violently. It went sadly against the grain with him
to shield his enemy, but so it must be. "Curse you, let him in!" he continued fiercely; they
were making his task more hard for him. "And have a care of him," he added anxiously. "Do you
hear? Have a care of him!"

Uncle Ulick made a last feeble attempt. "But Flavia," he said. "Flavia is there and----"

"Curse the girl!" James answered. "Get out of the road and let the man in! Is this my house
or yours?"

Ulick yielded, as he had yielded so often before. He stood aside. Colonel John opened the door
and entered.

The rest happened so quickly that no movement on his part could have saved him. Flavia had
heard their voices in altercation--it might be a half minute, it might be a few seconds before.
She had risen to her feet, she had recognised the voice of one of the speakers--he had spoken
once only, but that was enough--she had snatched up the naked sword that since the previous
morning had leant in the chimney corner. As Colonel John crossed the threshold--oh, dastardly
audacity, oh, insolence incredible, that in the hour of his triumph he should soil that threshold!--she
lunged with all the force of her strong young arm at his heart.

With such violence that the hilt struck his breast and hurled him bodily against the doorpost;
while the blade broke off, shivered by contact with the hard wood.

Uncle Ulick uttered a cry of horror. "My G----d!" he exclaimed, "you have killed him!"

"His blood----"

She stopped on the word. For instead of falling Colonel John was regaining his balance. "Flavia!"
he cried--the blade had passed through his coat, missing his breast by a bare half-inch. "Flavia,
hold! Listen! Listen a moment!"

But in a frenzy of rage, as soon as she saw that her blow had failed, she struck at him with
the hilt and the ragged blade that remained--struck at his face, struck at his breast, with
cries of fury almost animal. "Wretch! wretch!" she cried--"die! If they are cowards, I am not!
Die!"

The scene was atrocious, and Uncle Ulick, staring open-mouthed, gave no help. But Colonel Sullivan
mastered her wrists, though not until he had sustained a long bleeding cut on the jaw. Even
then, though fettered, and though he had forced her to drop the weapon, she struggled desperately
with him--as she had struggled when he carried her through the mist. "Kill him! kill him!"
she shrieked. "Help! help!"

The men would have killed him twice and thrice if The McMurrough, with voice and blade and
frantic imprecations and the interposition of his own body, had not kept the O'Beirnes and
the others at bay--explaining, deprecating, praying, cursing, all in a breath. Twice a blow
was struck at the Colonel through the doorway, but one fell short and the other James McMurrough
parried. For a moment the peril was of the greatest: the girl's cries, the sight of her struggling
in Colonel John's grip, wrought the men almost beyond James's holding. Then the strength went
out of her suddenly, she ceased to fight, and but for Colonel Sullivan's grasp she would have
fallen her length on the floor. He knew that she was harmless then, and he thrust her into
the nearest chair. He kicked the broken sword under the table, staunched the blood that trickled
fast from his cheek; last of all, he looked at the men who were contending with James in the
doorway.

"Gentlemen," he said, breathing a little quickly, but in no other way betraying the strait
through which he had passed, "I shall not run away. I shall be here to answer you to-morrow,
as fully as to-day. In the meantime I beg to suggest"--again he raised the handkerchief to
his cheek and staunched the blood--"that you retire now, and hear what The McMurrough has to
say to you: the more as the cases and the arms I see in the courtyard lie obnoxious to discovery
and expose all to risk while they remain so."

His surprising coolness did more to check them than The McMurrough's efforts. They gaped at
him in wonder. Then one uttered an imprecation.

"The McMurrough will explain if you will go with him," Colonel John answered patiently, "I
say again, gentlemen, I shall not run away."

"If you mean her any harm----"

"I mean her no harm."

"Are you alone?"

"I am alone."

So far Morty. But Phelim O'Beirne was not quite satisfied. "If a hair of her head be hurt----"
he growled, pushing himself forward, "I tell you, sir----"

"And I tell you!" James McMurrough retorted, repelling him. "What are the hairs of her head
to you, Phelim O'Beirne? Am I not him that's her brother? A truce to your prating, curse you,
and be coming with me. I understand him, and that is enough!"

"But His Reverence----"

"His Reverence is as safe as you or me!" James retorted. "If it were not so, are you thinking
I'd be here? Fie on you!" he went on, pushing Phelim through the door; "you are good at the
talking now, when it's little good it will be doing! But where were you this morning when a
good blow might have saved all?"

"Could I be helping it, when----?"

The voices passed away, still wrangling, across the courtyard. Uncle Ulick stepped to the door
and closed it. Then he turned and spoke his mind.

"You were wrong to come back, John Sullivan," he said, the hardness of his tone bearing witness
to his horror of what had happened. "Shame on you! It is no thanks to you that your blood is
not on the girl's hands, and the floor of your grandfather's house! You're a bold man, I allow.
But the fox made too free with the window at last, and, take my word for it, there are a score
of men, whose hands are surer than this child's, who will not rest till they have had your
life! And after what has happened, can you wonder? Be bid and go then; be bid, and go while
the breath is firm in you!"

Colonel John did not speak for a moment, and when he did answer, it was with a severity that
overbore Ulick's anger, and in a tone of contempt that was something new to the big man. "If
the breath be firm in those whom you, Ulick Sullivan," he said--"ay, you, Ulick Sullivan--and
your fellows would have duped, it is enough for me! For myself, whom should I fear? The plotters
whose childish plans were not proof against the simplest stratagem? The conspirators"--his
tone grew more cutting in its scorn--"who took it in hand to pull down a throne and were routed
by a Sergeant's Guard? The poor puppets who played at a game too high for them, and, dreaming
they were Sarsfields or Montroses, danced in truth to others' piping? Shall I fear them," he
continued, the tail of his eye on the girl, who, sitting low in her chair, writhed involuntarily
under his words--"poor tools, poor creatures, only a little less ignorant, only a little more
guilty than the clods they would have led to the crows or the hangman? Is it these I am to
fear; these I am to flee from? God forbid, Ulick Sullivan! I am not the man to flee from shadows!"

His tone, his manner, the truth of his words--which were intended to open the girl's eyes,
but did in fact increase her burning resentment--hurt even Uncle Ulick's pride. "Whisht, man,"
he said bitterly. "It's plain you're thinking you're master here!"

"I am," Colonel John replied sternly. "I am, and I intend to be. Nor a day too soon! Where
all are children, there is need of a master! Don't look at me like that, man! And for my cousin,
let her hear the truth for once! Let her know what men who have seen the world think of the
visions, from which she would have awakened in a dungeon, and the poor fools, her fellow-dupes,
under the gibbet! A great rising for a great cause, if it be real, man, if it be earnest, if
it be based on forethought and some calculation of the chances, God knows I hold it a fine
thing, and a high thing! But the rising of a child with a bladder against an armed man, a rising
that can ruin but cannot help, I know not whether to call it more silly or more wicked! Man,
the devil does his choicest work through fools, not rogues! And, for certain, he never found
a choicer morsel or fitter instruments than at Morristown yesterday."

Uncle Ulick swore impatiently. "We may be fools," he growled. "Yet spare the girl! Spare the girl!"

"What? Spare her the truth?"

"All! Everything!" Uncle Ulick cried, with unusual heat. "Cannot you see that she at least
meant well!"

"Such do the most ill," Colonel John retorted, with sententious severity. "God forgive them--and
her!" He paused for a moment and then, in a lighter tone, he continued, "As I do. As I do gladly.
Only there must be an end of this foolishness. The two men who knew in what they worked and
had reason in their wrong-doing are beyond seas. We shall see their faces no more. The McMurrough
is not so mad as to wish to act without them. He"--with a faint smile--"is not implacable.
You, Ulick, are not of the stuff of whom martyrs are made, nor are Mr. Burke and Sir Donny.
But the two young men outside"--he paused as if he reflected--"they and three or four others
are--what my cousin now listening to me makes them. They are tow, if the flame be brought near
them. And therefore--and therefore," he repeated still more slowly, "I have spoken the truth
and plainly. To this purpose, that there may be an end."

Flavia had sat at first with closed eyes, in a state next door to collapse, her head inclined,
her arms drooping, as if at any moment she might sink to the floor. But in the course of his
speaking a change had come over her. The last heavings of the storm, physical and mental, through
which she had passed, still shook her; now a quiver distorted her features, now a violent shudder
agitated her from head to foot. But the indomitable youth in her, and the spirit which she
had inherited from some dead forefather, were not to be long gainsaid. Slowly, as she listened--and
mainly under the influence of indignation--her colour had returned, her face grown more firm,
her form more stiff. In truth Colonel John had adopted the wrong course with her. He had been
hard--knowing men better than women--when he should have been mild; he had browbeaten where
he should have forgiven. And so at his last declaration, "There must be an end," she rose to
her feet, and spoke. And speaking, she showed that neither the failure of her attempt on him,
nor the bodily struggle with him, horribly as it humiliated her in the remembrance, had quelled
her courage.

"An end!" she said, in a voice vibrating with emotion. "Yes, but it will be an end for you!
Children, are we? Well, better that, a thousand times better that, than be so old before our
time, so cold of heart and cunning of head that there is naught real for us but that we touch
and see, nothing high for us but that our words will be measuring, nothing worth risk but that
we are safe to gain! Children, are we?" she continued, with deep passion. "But at least we
believe! At least we own something higher than ourselves--a God, a Cause, a Country! At least
we have not bartered all--all three and honour for a pittance of pay, fighting alike for right
or wrong, betraying alike the right and wrong! Children? May be! But, God be thanked, we are
warm, the blood runs in us----"

"Flavia!"

"I say the blood runs in us!" she repeated. "And if we are foolish, as you say, we are wiser
yet than one"--she looked at him with a strange and almost awful steadfastness--"who in his
wisdom thinks that a traitor can walk our Irish soil unharmed, or one go back and forth in
safety who has ruined and shamed us! You have escaped my hand! But I know that all your boasted
wisdom will not lengthen your life till the moon wanes!"

He had tried to interrupt her once--eagerly, vividly, as one who would defend himself. He answered
her now after another fashion: perhaps he had learnt his lesson. "If God wills," he said simply,
"it will be so; it will be as you say. And the road will lie open to you. Only while I live,
Flavia, whether I love this Irish soil or not, or my country, or my honour, the storm shall
not break here, nor the house fall from which we spring!"

"While you live!" she repeated, with a dreadful smile. "I tell you, I tell you," and she extended
her hand towards him, "the winding-sheet is high upon your breast, and the salt dried that
shall lie upon your heart."

CHAPTER XVI

THE MARPLOT

If, after that, Colonel Sullivan's life had depended on his courage or the vigilance of his
servant, it is certain that, tried as was the one and unwinking as was the other, Flavia's
prophecy would have been quickly fulfilled. He would not have seen another moon, perhaps he
would not have seen another dawn. The part which he had played in the events at the Carraghalin
was known to few; but the hundred tongues of rumour were already abroad, carrying as many versions,
and in all he was the marplot. His traffic with the Old Fox had spirited away the Holy Father
in God--whom the saints preserve!--and swept off also, probably on a broom-stick, the doughty
champion whose sole desire it was to lead the hosts of Ireland to victory. In the eyes of some
ten score persons, scattered over half a dozen leagues of country, wild, and beyond the pale
of law--persons who valued an informer's life no higher than a wolf's--he wore the ugly shape
of one. And the logical consequence was certain. That the man who had done these things should
continue to walk the sod, that the man who had these things on his black heretic conscience
should continue to haunt the scene of his crimes and lord it over those whom his misdeeds had
sullied, was to the common mind unthinkable--nay, incredible: a blot on God's good day. To
every potato-setter who, out of the corner of his eye, watched his passage, to every beggar
by the road whose whine masked heart-felt curses, to the very children who fell back from the
cabin door to escape his evil eye, this was plain and known, and the man already as the dead.
For if the cotters by the lakeside were not men enough, the nights being at present moonlit,
was there not Roaring Andy's band in the hills, not seven miles away, who would cut any man's
throat for a silver doubloon, and a Protestant's for the "trate it would be, and sorra a bit
of pay at all, the good men!"

Beyond doubt the Colonel's boldness, and the nerve which enabled him to take his place as if
nothing threatened him, went for something; and for something the sinister prestige which the
disappearance of O'Sullivan Og and his whole party cast about him. For there was wailing in
the house by the jetty: the rising had cost some lives though nipped in the bud. The evening
tide had cast the body of one of the men upon the shore, where it had been found among the
sea-wrack; and, though the fate of the others remained a mystery, the messenger who had sped
after Og with the counter-order told the story as he knew it. The means by which the two prisoners,
in face of odds so great, had destroyed their captors, were still a secret; but the worst was
feared. The Irish are ever open to superstitious beliefs, and the man who singlehanded could
wreak such a vengeance, who poured death as it were from a horn, went his way by road and bog,
shrouded in a gloomy fame that might provoke the bold, but kept the timid at bay. Before night
it was known in a dozen lonely cabins that the Colonel might be shot from behind with a silver
bullet: or stabbed, if a man were bold enough, with a cross-handled knife, blest and sprinkled.
But woe to him whose aim proved faulty or his hand uncertain! His chance in the grasp of the
Father of ill, or of the mis-shapen Trolls, revenants of a heathen race, who yearly profaned
the Carraghalin with their orgies, had not been worse!

But this reputation alone, seeing that reckless spirits were not wanting, nor in the recesses
of the hills those whose lives were forfeit, would have availed him little if the protection
of The McMurrough had not been cast over him. Why it was cast over him, so that he went to
and fro in safety--men scarcely dared to guess; it was a dark thing into which it were ill
to peer too closely. But the fact was certain; so certain that the anxiety of the young man
that the Colonel might meet with no hurt was plain and notorious, a thing observed stealthily
and with wonder. Did Colonel John saunter across the court to the gateway, to look on the lake,
The McMurrough was at his shoulder in a twinkling, and thence, with a haggard eye, searched
the furze-bush for the glint of a gun-barrel, and the angle of the wall for a lurking foe.
It was the same if the Colonel, who seemed himself unconscious of danger, fared as far as the
ruined tower, or stretched his legs on the road by the shore. The McMurrough could not be too
near him, walked with his hand on his arm, cast from time to time vigilant looks to the rear.
A score of times between rising and sleeping Colonel John smiled at the care that forewent
his steps and covered his retreat; nor perhaps had the contempt in which he held James McMurrough
ever reached a higher pitch than while he thus stood from hour to hour indebted to that young
man for his life.

What Uncle Ulick, if he held the key to the matter, thought of it, or how he explained it,
if he had not, did not appear; nor, certain that the big man would favour a course of action
that made for peace, was Colonel John overcurious to know. But what Flavia thought of the position
was a point which aroused his most lively curiosity. He gave her credit for feelings so deep
and for a nature so downright, that time-serving or paltering were the last faults he looked
to find in her. He could hardly believe that she would consent to sit at meat with him after
what had happened; and possibly--for men are strange, and the motives of the best are mixed--a
desire to see how she would behave and how she would bear herself in the circumstances had
something to do with the course he was taking.

That she consented to the plan was soon made clear. She even took part in it. James could not
be always at his elbow. The young man must sometimes retire, it might be to vent his spleen
in curses he dared not utter openly, it might be to take other measures for his safety. When
this happened, the girl took her brother's place, stooped to dog the Colonel's footsteps, and
for a day or two, while the danger hung most imminent, and every ditch to James's fancy held
a lurking foe, cast the mantle of her presence over the man she hated.

But stoop as she might, she never for a moment stooped to mask her hate. In her incomings and
her outgoings, in her risings-up and at table with him, every movement of her body, the carriage
of her head, the glance of her eye, showed that she despised him; that she who now suffered
him was the same woman who had struck at his life, and, failing, repented only the failure.
In all she did, in parleying with him, in bearing with his presence, in suffering his gaze,
she made it plain that she did it against her will; as the captive endures perforce the company
of the brigand in whose power he lies, but whom, when opportunity offers, he will deliver with
avidity to the cord or the garotte. Because she must, and for her brother's sake, for the sake
of his name and pride and home, she was willing to do this, though she abhorred it; and though
every time that she broke bread with the intruder, met his eyes, or breathed the air that he
breathed, she told herself that it was intolerable, that it must end.

Once or twice, feeling the humiliation more than she could bear, she declared to her brother
that the man must go. "Let him go!" she cried, in uncontrollable excitement. "Let him go!"

"But he will not be going, Flavvy."

"He must go!" she replied.

"And Morristown his?" James would answer. "Ye are forgetting! Over and above that, he's not
one to do my bidding, nor yours!"

That was true. He would not go; he persisted in remaining and being master. But it was not
there the difficulty lay. If he had not made a will before he came, a will that doubtless set
the property of the family for ever beyond James's reach, the thing had been simple and Colonel
John's shrift had been short. But now, to rid the earth of him was to place the power in the
hands of an unknown person, a stranger, an alien, for whom the ties of family and honour would
have no stringency. True, the law was weak in Kerry. A writ was one thing, and possession another.
Whatever right a stranger might gain, it could only be with difficulty and after the lapse
of years that he would make it good against the old family, or plant those about him who would
ensure his safety. But it did not do to depend on this. Within the last generation, the McCarthys,
a clan more powerful than the McMurroughs, had been driven from the greater part of their lands;
and on every side English settlers were impinging on the old Irish families. A bold man might
indeed keep the forces of law at bay for a time; but James McMurrough, notwithstanding the
folly into which he had been led, was no desperado. He had no desire to live with a rope round
his neck, to flee to the bog on the least alarm, and, in the issue, to give his name to an
Irish Glencoe.

A stranger position it had been hard to conceive; or one more humiliating to a proud and untamed
spirit such as Flavia's. What arguments, what prayers, what threats The McMurrough used to
bring her to it, Colonel Sullivan could not guess. But though she consented, her shame, her
resentment, her hostility, were so patent that the effect was to pair off Colonel John and
herself, to pit them one against the other, to match them one to one. The McMurrough, supple
and insincere, found little difficulty in subduing his temper to his interests, though now
and again his churlishness broke out. For Uncle Ulick, his habit was to be easy and to bid
others be easy; the dawn and dark of a day reconciled him to most things. The O'Beirnes, sullen
and distrustful, were still glad to escape present peril. Looking for a better time to come,
they took their orders, helped to shield the common enemy, supposed it policy, and felt no
shame. Flavia alone, in presence of the man who had announced that he meant to be master, writhed
in helpless revolt, swore that he should never be her master, swore that whoever bowed the
head she never would.

And Colonel Sullivan, seated, apparently at his ease, on the steep lap of danger, found that
this hostility and the hostile person held his thoughts. A man may be an enthusiast in the
cause of duty, he may have plucked from the hideous slough of war the rare blue flower of loving-kindness,
he may in the strength of his convictions seem sufficient to himself; he will still feel a
craving for sympathy. Colonel Sullivan was no exception. He found his thoughts dwelling on
the one untamable person, on the one enemy who would not stoop, and whose submission seemed
valuable. The others took up, in a greater or less degree, the positions he assigned to them,
gave him lip-service, pretended that they were as they had been, and he as he had been. She
did not; she would not.

Presently he discovered with surprise that her attitude rendered him unhappy. Secure in his
sense of right, certain that he was acting for the best, looking from a height of experience
on that lowland in which she toiled forward, following will-of-the-wisps, he should have been
indifferent. But he was not indifferent.

Meantime, she believed that there was no length to which she would not go against him; she
fancied that there was no weapon which she would not stoop to pick up if it would hurt him.
And presently she was tried. A week had passed since the great fiasco. Again it was the eve
of Sunday, and in the usual course of things a priest would appear to celebrate mass on the
following day. This risk James was now unwilling to run. His fears painted that as dangerous
which had been done safely Sunday by Sunday for years; and in a hang-dog, hesitating way, he
let Flavia know his doubts.

"Devil take me if I think he'll suffer it!" he said, kicking up the turf with his toe. They
were standing together by the waterside, Flavia rebelling against the consciousness that it
was only outside their own walls that they could talk freely. "May be," he continued, "it will
be best to let Father O'Hara know--to let be for a week or two."

The girl turned upon him, in passionate reprehension. "Why?" she cried, "Why?"

"Why, is it you're asking?" James answered sullenly. "Well, isn't he master for the time, bad
luck to him! And if he thinks we're beginning to draw the boys together, he'll maybe put his
foot down! And I'd rather be stopping it myself, I'm telling you, and it's the truth, too,
just for a week or two, Flavvy, than be bidden by him."

"Never!" she cried.

"But----"

"Never! Never! Never!" she repeated firmly. "Let us turn our back on our king by all means!
But on our God, no! Let him do his worst!"

He was ashamed to persist, and he took another line. "I'm thinking of O'Hara," he said. "It'll
be four walls for him, or worse, if he's taken."

"There's no one will be taking him," she answered steadfastly.

"But if he is?"

"I'm saying there's no one will be taking him."

James felt himself repulsed. He shrugged his shoulders and was silent. Presently, "Flavvy,"
he said in a low tone, "I've a notion, my girl. And it'll serve, I'm thinking. This can't be
lasting."

She looked at him without much hope.

"Well?" she said coldly. She had begun to find him out.

He looked at her cunningly. "We might put the boot on the other leg," he said. "He's for informing.
But what if we inform, my girl? It's the first in the field that's believed. He's his tale
of the Spanish ship, and you know who. But what if we tell it first, and say that he came with
them and stayed behind to get us to move? Who's to say he didn't land from the Spaniard, if
we're all in a tale? And faith, he's no friend here nor one that will open his mouth for him.
A word at Tralee will do it, and Luke Asgill has friends there, that will be glad to set the
ball rolling at his bidding. Once clapped up John Sullivan may squeal, he'll not be the one
to be believed, but those that put him there. It'll be no more than to swear an information,
and Luke Asgill will do the rest."

Flavia shuddered. "They won't take his life?" she asked.

James frowned. "That would not suit us at all," he said. "Not at all! We could do that for
ourselves. Faith," with a sudden laugh, "you didn't lack much of doing it, Flavvy! No; but
a stone box and a ring round his leg, and four walls to talk to--until such time as we have
a use for him, would be mighty convenient for everybody. He'd have leisure to think of his
dear relations, and of the neat way he outwitted them, the clever devil! But for taking his
life--I'm seeing my way there too," with a grin--"it was naming his dear relations made me
think of it. They'd not bear to be informing without surety for his life, to be sure! No!"
with a chuckle. "And very creditable to them!"

Flavia stared across the water. She was very pale.

"We'll be wanting one or two to swear to it," he continued, "and the rest to be silent. Sorra
a bit of difficulty will there be about it!"

"But if," she said slowly, "he gets the first word? And tells the truth?"

"The truth?" James McMurrough replied scornfully. "The truth is what we'll make it! I'll see
to that, my jewel."

She shivered. "Still," she said, "it will not be truth."

"What matter?" James answered. "It will cook his goose. Curse him," he continued with violence,
"what right had he to come here and thrust himself into other folks' affairs?"

"I could have killed him," she said. "But----"

"But you can't," he rejoined. "And you know why."

"But this"--she continued with a shudder, "this is different."

"What will you be after?" he cried impatiently. "You are not turning sheep-hearted at this
time of day?"

"I am not sheep-hearted."

"What is it then, my girl?"

"I can't do this," she said. She was still very pale. Something had come close to her, had
touched her, that had never approached her so nearly before.

He stared at her. "But he'll have his life," he said.

"It's not that," she answered slowly. "It's the way. I can't!" she repeated. "I've tried, and
I can't! It sickens me."

"And he's to do what he likes with us?" James cried.

"No, no!"

"And we're not to touch him without our gloves?"

She did not answer, and twice her brother repeated the taunt--twice asked her, with a confidence
he did not feel, what was the matter with the plan. At last, "It's too vile!" she cried passionately.
"It's too horrible! It's to sink to what he is, and worse!" Her voice trembled with the intensity
of her feelings--as a man, who has scaled a giddy height without faltering, sometimes trembles
when he reaches the solid ground. "Worse!" she repeated.

To relieve his feelings, perhaps to hide his shame, he cursed his enemy anew. And "I wish I
had never told you!" he added bitterly.

"It's too late now," she replied.

"Asgill could have managed it, and no one the wiser!"

"I believe you!" she replied quickly. "But not you! Don't do it, James," she repeated, laying
her hand on his arm and speaking with sudden heat. "Don't you do it! Don't!"

"And we're to let the worst happen," he retorted, "and O'Hara perhaps be seized----"

"God forbid!"

"That's rubbish! And this man be seized, and that man, as he pleases! We're to let him rule
over us, and we're to be good boys whatever happens, and serve King George and turn Protestants,
every man of us!"

"God forbid!" she repeated strenuously.

"As well turn," he retorted, "if we are to live slaves all our days! By Heaven, Cammock was
right when he said that he would let no woman knit a halter for his throat!"

She did not ask him who had been the life and soul of the movement, whose enthusiasm had set
it going, and whose steadfastness maintained it. She did not say that whatever the folly of
the enterprise, and however ludicrous its failure, she had gone into it whole-hearted, and
with one end in view. She did not tell him that the issue was a hundred times more grievous
and more galling to her than to him. Her eyes were beginning to be opened to his failings,
she was beginning to see that all men did not override their womenfolk, or treat them roughly.
But the habit of giving way to him was still strong; and when, with another volley of harsh,
contemptuous words, he flung away from her, though her last interjection was a prayer to him
to refrain, she blamed herself rather than him.

Now that she was alone, too, the priest's safety weighed on her mind. If Colonel John betrayed
him, she would never forgive herself. Certainly it was unlikely he would; for in that part
priests moved freely, the authorities winked at their presence, and it was only within sight
of the walls of Tralee or of Galway that the law which proscribed them was enforced. But her
experience of Colonel Sullivan--of his activity, his determination, his devilish adroitness--made
all things seem possible. He had been firm as fate in the removal of the Bishop and Cammock;
he had been turned no jot from his purpose by her prayers, her rage, her ineffectual struggles--she
sickened at the remembrance of that moment. He was capable of everything, this man who had
come suddenly into their lives out of the darkness of far Scandinavia, himself dark and inscrutable.
He was capable of everything, and if he thought fit--but at that point her eyes alighted on
a man who was approaching along the lake-road. It was Father O'Hara himself. The priest was
advancing as calmly and openly as if no law made his presence a felony, or as if no Protestant
breathed the soft Irish air for a dozen leagues about.

Her brother's words had shaken Flavia's nerves. She was courageous, but she was a woman. She
flew to meet the priest, and with every step his peril loomed larger before her fluttered spirits.
The wretch had said that he would be master, and a master who was a Protestant, a fanatic----

She did not follow the thought to its conclusion. She waved a warning even before she reached
the Father. When she did, "Father!" she cried eagerly, "you must get away, and come back after
dark!"

The good man's jaw fell. He had been looking forward to good cheer and a good bed, to a rare
oasis of comfort in his squalid life. He cast a wary look round him. "What has happened, my
daughter?" he stammered.

"Colonel Sullivan!" Flavia gasped. "He is here, and he will certainly give you up."

"Colonel Sullivan?"

"Yes. You were at the Carraghalin? You have heard what happened! He will surely give you up!"

"Are the soldiers here?" the priest asked, with a blanched face.

"No, but he is here! He is in the house, and may come out at any moment," Flavia explained.
"Don't you understand?"

"Did he tell you----"

"What?"

"That he would inform?"

"No!" Flavia replied, thinking the man very dull. "But you wouldn't trust him?"

The priest looked round to assure himself that the landscape held no overt signs of danger.
Then he brought back his eyes to the girl's face, and he stroked his thin, brown cheek reflectively.
He recalled the scene in the bog, Colonel John's courage, and his thought for his servant.
And at last, "I am not thinking," he said coolly, "that he will betray me. I am sure--I think
I am sure," he continued, correcting himself, "that he will not. He is a heretic, but he is
a good man."

Flavia's cheek flamed. She started back. "A good man!" she cried in a voice audible half a
hundred yards away.

Father O'Hara looked a little ashamed of himself; but he stood by his guns. "A heretic, of
course," he said. "But, I'm thinking, a good man. At any rate, I'm not believing that he will
inform against me."

As quickly as it had come, the colour fled from Flavia's face, and left it cold and hard. She
looked at the priest as she had never looked at a priest of her Church before. "You must take
your own course then," she said. And with a gesture which he did not understand she turned
from him, and leaving him, puzzled and disconcerted, she went away into the house.

A good man! Heaven and earth and the sea besides! A good man! Father O'Hara was a fool! A fool!

CHAPTER XVII

THE LIMIT

If there was one man more sorry than another that the Morristown rising had been nipped in
the bud it was Luke Asgill. It stood to his credit that, though he had never dared to cross
Flavia's will, he had tried, and honestly tried, to turn James McMurrough from the attempt.
But even while doing this, he had known--as he had once told James with bitter frankness--that
his interest lay in the other scale; he had seen that had he attended to it only, he would
not have dissuaded The McMurrough, but, on the contrary, would have egged him on, in the assurance
that the failure of the plot would provide his one best chance of winning Flavia. A score of
times, indeed, he had pictured, and with rapture, the inevitable collapse. In the visions of
his head upon his bed he had seen the girl turn to him in the wreck of things--it might be
to save her brother's life, it might be to save her tender feet from the stones of foreign
streets. And in the same dream he had seen himself standing by her, alone against the world;
as, to do him justice, he would have stood, no matter how sharp the stress or great the cost.

He had no doubt that he would be able to save her--in spite of herself and whatever her indiscretion.
For he belonged to a class that has ever owned inordinate power in Ireland: the class of the
middlemen with roots in either camp--a grandam, who, perchance, still softens her clay on the
old cabin hearth, while a son preens it with his betters in Trinity College. Such men carry
into the ruling ranks their knowledge of the modes of thought, the tricks and subterfuges of
those from whom they spring; and at once astute and overbearing, hard and supple, turn the
needs of rich and poor to their own advantage, and rise on the common loss. Asgill, with money
to lend in the town, and protections to grant upon the bog, with the secrets of two worlds
in his head or in his deed-box, could afford to await with confidence the day when the storm
would break upon Morristown, and Flavia, in the ruin of all about her, would turn to him for
rescue.

Keen therefore was his chagrin when, through the underground channels which were in his power,
he heard two days after the event, and in distant Tralee, what had happened. Some word of a
large Spanish ship seen off the point had reached the mess-room; but only he knew how nearly
work had been found for the garrison: only he, walking about with a smooth face, listened for
the alarm that did not come. For a wonder he had been virtuous, he had given James his warning;
yet he had seen cakes and ale in prospect. Now, not only was the treat vanished below the horizon,
but stranger news, news still less welcome, was whispered in his ear. The man whom he had distrusted
from the first, the man against whom he had warned The McMurrough, had done this. More, in
spite of the line he had taken, the man was still at Morristown, if not honoured, protected,
and if not openly triumphant, master in fact.

Luke Asgill swore horribly. But Colonel Sullivan had got the better of him once, and he was
not to be duped again by this Don Quixote's mildness and love of peace. He knew him to be formidable,
and he took time to consider before he acted. He waited a week and examined the matter on many
sides before he took horse to see things with his own eyes. Nor did he alight at the gate of
Morristown until he had made many a resolution to be wary and on his guard.

He had reason to call these to mind before his foot was well out of the stirrup, for the first
person he saw, after he had bidden his groom take the horses to the stable, was Colonel Sullivan.
Asgill had time to scan his face before they met in the middle of the courtyard, the one entering,
the other leaving; and he judged that Colonel John's triumph did not go very deep. He was looking
graver, sadder, older; finally--this he saw as they saluted one another--sterner.

Asgill stepped aside courteously, meaning to go by him. But the Colonel stepped aside also,
and so barred his way. "Mr. Asgill," he said--and there was something of the martinet in his
tone--"I will trouble you to give me a word apart."

"A word apart?" Asgill answered. He was taken aback, and do what he could the Colonel's grave
eyes discomposed him. "With all the pleasure in life, Colonel. But a little later, by your leave."

"I think now were more convenient, sir," the Colonel answered, "by your leave."

"I will lay my cloak in the house, and then----"

"It will be more convenient to keep your cloak, I'm thinking," the Colonel rejoined with dryness.
And either because of the meaning in his voice or the command in his eyes, Asgill gave way
and turned with him, and the two walked gravely and step for step through the gateway.

Outside the Colonel beckoned to a ragged urchin who was playing ducks and drakes with his naked
toes. "Go after Mr. Asgill's horses," he said, and bid the man bring them back."

"Colonel Sullivan!"

The Colonel did not heed his remonstrance. "And follow us!" he continued. "Are you hearing,
boy? Go then."

"Colonel Sullivan," Asgill repeated, his face both darker and paler--for there could be no
doubt about the other's meaning--"I'm thinking this is a strange liberty you're taking. And
I beg to say I don't understand the meaning of it."

"You wish to know the meaning of it?"

"I do."

"It means, sir," Colonel John replied, "that the sooner you start on your return journey the
better!"

Asgill stared. "The better you will be pleased, you mean!" he said. And he laughed harshly.

"The better it will be for you, I mean," Colonel John answered.

Asgill flushed darkly, but he commanded himself--having those injunctions to prudence fresh
in his mind. "This is an odd tone," he said. "And I must ask you to explain yourself further,
or I can tell you that what you have said will go for little. I am here upon the invitation
of my friend, The McMurrough----"

"This is not his house."

Asgill stared. "Do you mean----"

"I mean what I say," the Colonel answered. "This is not his house, as you well know."

"But----"

"It is mine, and I do not propose to entertain you, Mr. Asgill," Colonel John continued. "Is
that sufficiently plain?"

The glove was down. The two men looked at one another, while the knot of beggars, gathered
round the gate and just out of earshot, watched them--in the dark as to all else, but aware
with Irish shrewdness that they were at grips. Asgill was not only taken by surprise, but he
lay under the disadvantage of ignorance. He did not know precisely how things stood, much less
could he explain this sudden attack. Yet if the tall, lean man, serious and growing grey, represented
one form of strength, the shorter, stouter man, with the mobile face and the quick brain, stood
for another. Offhand he could think of no weak spot on his side; and if he must fight, he would
fight.

He forced a laugh. And, truly to think of this man, who had not seen Morristown for a score
of years, using the experience of a fortnight to give him notice to quit, was laughable. The
laugh he had forced became real.

"More plain than hospitable, Colonel," he said. "Perhaps, after all, it will be best so, and
we shall understand one another."

"I am thinking so," Colonel Sullivan answered. It was plain that he did not mean to be drawn
from the position he had taken up.

"Only I think that you have overlooked this," Asgill continued smoothly. "It is one thing to
own a house and another to kick the logs on the hearth; one thing to have the deeds and another--in
the west--to pass the punch-bowl! More, by token, 'tis a hospitable country this, Colonel,
none more so; and if there is one thing would annoy The McMurrough and the young lady, his
sister, more than another, it would be to turn a guest from the door--that is thought to be
theirs!"

"You mean that you will not take my bidding?" the Colonel said.

"Not the least taste in life," Asgill answered gaily, "unless it is backed by the gentleman
or the lady."

"Yet I believe, sir, that I have a means to persuade you," Colonel John replied. "It is no
more than a week ago, Mr. Asgill, since a number of persons in my presence assumed a badge
so notoriously treasonable that a child could not doubt its meaning."

"In the west of Ireland," Asgill said, with a twinkle in his eye, "that is a trifle, my dear
sir, not worth naming."

"But if reported in the east?"

Asgill averted his face that its smile might not be seen. "Well," he said, "it might be a serious
matter there."

"I think you take me now," Colonel John rejoined. "I wish to use no threats. The least said
the soonest mended."

Asgill looked at him with half-shut eyes and a lurking smile--in truth, with the amusement
of a man watching the transparent scheming of a child. "As you say, the least said the soonest
mended," he rejoined. "So--who is to report it in the east?"

"I will, if necessary."

"If----"

"If you push me to it."

Asgill raised his eyebrows impertinently. "An informer?" he said.

Colonel John did not flinch. "If necessary," he repeated.

"That would be serious," Asgill rejoined, "for many people. In the first place for the young
lady, your ward, Colonel. Then for your kinsman--and Mr. Ulick Sullivan. After that for quite
a number of honest gentlemen, tolerably harmless and tolerably well-reputed here, whose only
fault is a tendency to heroics after dinner. It would be so serious, and for so many, Colonel,
that for my part I should be glad to suffer in such good company. Particularly," he continued,
with a droll look, the droller for his appreciation of the Colonel's face of discomfiture,
"as being a Protestant and a Justice, I should, ten to one, be the only person against whom
the story would not pass. Eh, Colonel, what do you think? So that, ten to one, I should go
free, and the others go to Geordie's prison!"

Colonel John had not, to be honest, a word to say. He was fairly defeated, his flank turned,
his guns captured. He had counted so surely on a panic, on the man whom he knew to be a knave
proving also a coward, that even his anger--and he was very angry--could not hide his discomfiture.
He looked, indeed, so rueful, and at the same time so wrathful, that Asgill laughed aloud.

"Come, Colonel," he said, "it is no use to scowl at me. We know you never call any one out.
Let me just hint that wits in Ireland are not quite so slow as in colder countries, and that,
had I been here a week back, you had not found it so easy to----"

"To what, sir?"

"To send two old women to sea in a cockboat," Asgill replied. And he laughed anew and loudly.
But this time there was no gaiety in his laugh. If the Colonel had not performed the feat in
question, in how different a state things might have been at this moment! Asgill felt murderous
towards him as he thought of that; and the weapon of the flesh being out of the question--for
he had no mind to face the Colonel's small-sword--he sought about for an arm of another kind,
and had no difficulty in finding one. "More, by token," he continued, "if you are going to
turn informer, it was a pity you did not send the young woman to sea with the old ones. But
I'm thinking you'd not be liking to be without her, Colonel?"

Colonel John turned surprisingly red: perhaps he did not quite know why. "We will leave her
out of the question, sir," he said haughtily. "Or--that reminds me! That reminds me," he continued,
with increasing sternness. "You question my right to bid you begone----"

"By G--d, I do!" Asgill cried, with zest. He was beginning to enjoy himself.

"But you forget, I think, another little matter in the past that is known to me--and that you
would not like disclosed, I believe, sir."

"You seem to have been raking things up, Colonel."

"One must deal with a rogue according to his roguery," Colonel John retorted.

Asgill's face grew dark. This was taking the buttons off with a vengeance. He made a movement,
but restrained himself. "You don't mince matters," he said.

"I do not."

"You may be finding it an unfortunate policy before long," Asgill said between his teeth. He
was moved at last, angered, perhaps apprehensive of what was coming.

"Maybe, sir," Colonel John returned, "maybe. But in the meantime let me remind you that your
tricks as a horsedealer would not go far to recommend you as a guest to my kinswoman."

"Oh?"

"Who shall assuredly hear who seized her mare if you persist in forcing your company upon her."

"Upon her?" Asgill repeated, in a peculiar tone. "I see."

Colonel John reddened. "You know now," he said. "And if you persist----"

"You will tell her," Asgill took him up, "that I--shall I say--abducted her mare?"

"I shall tell her without hesitation."

"Or scruple?"

Colonel Sullivan glowered at him, but did not answer.

Asgill laughed a laugh of honest contempt. "And she," he said, "will not believe you if you
swear it a score of times! Try, sir! Try! You will injure yourself, you will not injure me.
Why, man," he continued, in a tone of unmeasured scorn, "you are duller than I thought you
were! The ice is still in your wits and the fog in your brain. I thought, when I heard what
you had done, that you were the man for Kerry! But----"

"What is it? What's this?"

The speaker was James McMurrough, who had come from the house in search of the kinsman he dared
not suffer out of his sight. He had approached unnoticed, and his churlish tone showed that
what he had overheard was not to his liking. But Asgill supposed that James's ill-humour was
directed against his enemy, and he appealed to him.

"What is it?" he repeated with energy; "I'll tell you!"

"Then you'll be telling me indoors!" James answered curtly.

"No!" said Colonel Sullivan.

But at that the young man exploded. "No?" he cried. "No? And, why no? Confusion, sir, it's
too far you are driving us," he continued passionately. "Is it at your bidding I must stand
in a mob of beggars at my own gate--I, The McMurrough? And be telling and taking for all the
gossoons in the country to hear? No? But it's yes, I say! There's bounds to it all, and if
you must be falling to words with my friends, quarrel like gentlemen within doors, and not
in a parcel of loons at the gate."

He turned without waiting for a reply and strode into the courtyard. Colonel John hesitated
a moment, then he stood aside, and, with a stern face, he invited Asgill to precede him. The
Justice did so, smiling. He had won the first bout; and now, if he was not much mistaken, his
opponent had made a false move.

That opponent, following with a sombre face, began to be of the same opinion. In his simplicity
he had supposed that it would be easy to bell the cat. He had seen, he fancied, a way to do
it in a corner, quietly, with little outcry and no disturbance. But the cat had teeth and claws
and the cunning of a cat, and was not, it now appeared, an animal easy to bell.

They passed into the house, The McMurrough leading. There were two or three buckeens in the
hall, and Darby and one of the down-at-heel serving-boys were laying the evening meal. "You'll
be getting out," James said curtly.

"We will," replied one of the men. And they trooped out at the back.

"Now, what is it?" the McMurrough asked, turning on his followers and speaking in a tone hardly
more civil.

"It's what you're saying--Get out!" Asgill answered smiling. "Only it's the Colonel here's
for saying it, and it seems I'm the one to get out."

"What the saints do you mean?" James growled. "Sorra bit of your fun am I wishing at this present!"
He wanted no trouble, and he saw that here was trouble.

"I can tell you in a few words," Colonel Sullivan answered. "You know on what terms we are
here. I wish to do nothing uncivil, and I was looking for this gentleman to take a hint and
go quietly. He will not, it seems, and so I must say plainly what I mean. I object to his presence
here."

James stared. He did not understand. "Why, man, he's no Jacobite," he cried, "whoever the other
is!" His surprise was genuine.

"I will say nothing as to that," Colonel John answered precisely.

"Then, faith, what are you saying?" James asked. Asgill stood by smiling, aware that silence
would best fight his battle.

"This," Colonel John returned. "That I know those things of him that make him unfit company here."

"The devil you do!"

"And----"

But James's patience was at an end. "Unfit company for whom?" he cried. "Eh! Unfit company
for whom? Is it Darby he'll be spoiling? Or Thaddy the lad? Or"--resentment gradually overcoming
irony--"is it Phelim or Morty he'll be tainting the souls of, and he a Protestant like yourself?
Curse me, Colonel Sullivan, it's clean out of patience you put me! Are we boys at school, to
be scolded and flouted and put right by you? Unfit company? For whom? For whom, sir? I'd like
to know. More, by token, I'd like to know also where this is to end--and I will, by your leave!
For whom, sir?"

"For your sister," Colonel John replied. "Without saying more, Mr. Asgill is not of the class
with whom your grandfather----"

"My grandfather--be hanged!" cried the angry young man--angry with some cause, for it must
be confessed that Colonel John, with the best intentions, was a little heavy-handed. "You said
you'd be master here, and faith," he continued with bitterness, "it's master you mean to be.
But there's a limit! By Heaven, there's a limit----"

"Yes, James, there is a limit!" a voice struck in--a voice as angry as The McMurrough's, but
vibrating to a purer note of passion; so that the indignation which it expressed seemed to
raise the opposition to Colonel John's action to a higher plane. "There is a limit, Colonel
Sullivan!" Flavia repeated, stepping from the foot of the stairs, on the upper flight of which--drawn
from her room by the first outburst--she had heard the whole. "And it has been reached! It
has been reached when the head of The McMurroughs of Morristown is told on his own hearth whom
he shall receive and whom he shall put to the door! Limit is it? Let me tell you, sir, I would
rather be the poorest exile than live thus. I would rather beg my bread barefoot among strangers,
never to see the sod again, never to hear the friendly Irish tongue, never to smell, the peat
reek, than live on this tenure, at the mercy of a hand I loathe, on the sufferance of a man
I despise, of an informer, a traitor, ay, an apostate----"

"Flavia! Flavia!" Colonel John's remonstrance was full of pain.

