The scheme of this great work of Sue's was stupendously ambitious--and the author did not fall
below the ideal that he pursued. His was the purpose of producing a comprehensive "universal
history," dating from the beginning of the present era down to his own days. But the history
that he proposed to sketch was not to be a work for closet study. It was to be a companion
in the stream of actual, every-day life and struggle, with an eye especially to the successive
struggles of the successively ruled with the successively ruling classes. In the execution
of his design, Sue conceived a plan that was as brilliant as it was poetic--withal profoundly
philosophic. One family, the descendants of a Gallic chief named Joel, typifies the oppressed;
one family, the descendants of a Frankish chief and conqueror named Neroweg, typifies the oppressor;
and across and adown the ages, the successive struggles between oppressors and oppressed--the
history of civilization--is thus represented in a majestic allegory. In the execution of this
superb plan a thread was necessary to connect the several epochs with one another, to preserve
the continuity requisite for historic accuracy, and, above all, to give unity and point to
the silent lesson taught by the unfolding drama. Sue solved the problem by an ingenious scheme--a
series of stories, supposedly written from age to age, sometimes at shorter, other times at
longer intervals, by the descendants of the ancestral type of the oppressed, narrating their
special experience and handing the supplemented chronicle down to their successors from generation
to generation, always accompanied with some emblematic relic, that constitutes the first name
of each story. The series, accordingly, though a work presented in the garb of "fiction," is
the best universal history extant: Better than any work, avowedly on history, it graphically
traces the special features of class-rule as they have succeeded one another from epoch to
epoch, together with the special character of the struggle between the contending classes.
The "Law," "Order," "Patriotism," "Religion," "Family," etc., etc., that each successive tyrant
class, despite its change of form, fraudulently sought refuge in to justify its criminal existence
whenever threatened; the varying economic causes of the oppression of the toilers; the mistakes
incurred by these in their struggles for redress; the varying fortunes of the conflict;--all
these social dramas are therein reproduced in a majestic series of "novels" covering leading
and successive episodes in the history of the race--an inestimable gift, above all to our own
generation, above all to the American working class, the short history of whose country deprives
it of historic back-ground.

It is not until the fifth story is reached--the period of the Frankish conquest of Gaul, 486
of the present era--that the two distinct streams of the typical oppressed and typical oppressor
meet. But the four preceding ones are necessary, and preparatory for the main drama, that starts
with the fifth story and that, although carried down to the revolution of 1848 which overthrew
Louis Philippe in France, reaches its grand climax in The Sword of Honor; or, The Foundation
of the French Republic, that is, the French Revolution. These stories are nineteen in number,
and their chronological order is the following:

     1. The Gold Sickle; or, Hena, the Virgin of the Isle of Sen;
     2. The Brass Bell; or, The Chariot of Death;
     3. The Iron Collar; or, Faustine and Syomara;
     4. The Silver Cross; or, The Carpenter of Nazareth;
     5. The Casque's Lark; or, Victoria, The Mother of the Fields;
     6. The Poniard's Hilt; or, Karadeucq and Ronan;
     7. The Branding Needle; or, The Monastery of Charolles;
     8. The Abbatial Crosier; or, Bonaik and Septimine;
     9. Carlovingian Coins; or, The Daughters of Charlemagne;
    10. The Iron Arrow-Head; or, The Maid of the Buckler;
    11. The Infant's Skull; or, The End of the World;
    12. The Pilgrim's Shell; or, Fergan the Quarryman;
    13. The Iron Pincers; or, Mylio and Karvel;
    14. The Iron Trevet; or, Jocelyn the Champion;
    15. The Executioner's Knife; or, Joan of Arc;
    16. The Pocket Bible; or, Christian the Printer;
    17. The Blacksmith's Hammer; or, The Peasant-Code;
    18. The Sword of Honor; or, The Foundation of the French Republic;
    19. The Galley-Slave's Ring; or, The Family of Lebrenn.

Long and effectually has the influence of the usurping class in the English-speaking world
succeeded in keeping this brilliant torch that Eugene Sue lighted, from casting its rays across
the path of the English-speaking peoples. Several English translations were attempted before
this, in England and this country, some fifty years ago. They were all fractional: they are
all out of print now: most of them are not to be found even in public libraries of either England
or America, not a wrack being left to them, little more than a faint tradition. Only two of
the translations are not wholly obliterated. One of them was published by Trübner & Co. jointly
with David Nutt, both of London, in 1863; the other was published by Clark, 448 Broome street,
New York, in 1867. The former was anonymous, the translator's identity being indicated only
with the initials "K. R. H. M." It contains only eight of the nineteen stories of the original,
and even these are avowedly abridgments. The latter was translated by Mary L. Booth, and it
broke off before well under way--extinguished as if snuffed off by a gale. Even these two luckier
fragmentary translations, now surviving only as curios in a few libraries, attest the vehemence
and concertedness of the effort to suppress this great gift of Sue's intellect to the human
race. It will be thus no longer. The Mysteries of the People; or, History of a Proletarian
Family Across the Ages will henceforth enlighten the English-speaking toiling masses as well.

DANIEL DE LEON.

New York, May 1, 1904.

INDEX.

Translator's Preface                           iii

Chapter 1. The Guest                             1

Chapter 2. A Gallic Homestead                   11

Chapter 3. Armel and Julyan                     20

Chapter 4. The Story of Albrege                 27

Chapter 5. The Story of Syomara                 33

Chapter 6. The Story of Gaul                    39

Chapter 7. "War! War! War!"                     45

Chapter 8. "Farewell!"                          53

Chapter 9. The Forest of Karnak                 66

CHAPTER I.

THE GUEST.

He who writes this account is called Joel, the brenn[A] of the tribe of Karnak; he is the son
of Marik, who was the son of Kirio, the son of Tiras, the son of Gomer, the son of Vorr, the
son of Glenan, the son of Erer, the son of Roderik chosen chief of the Gallic army that, now
two hundred and seventy-seven years ago, levied tribute upon Rome.

[A] Gallic word for chief.

Joel (why should I not say so?) feared the gods, he was of a right heart, a steady courage
and a cheerful mind. He loved to laugh, to tell stories, and above all to hear them told, like
the genuine Gaul that he was.

At the time when Cæsar invaded Gaul (may his name be accursed!), Joel lived two leagues from
Alrè, not far from the sea and the isle of Roswallan, near the edge of the forest of Karnak,
the most celebrated forest of Breton Gaul.

One evening towards nightfall--the evening before the anniversary of the day when Hena, his
daughter, his well-beloved daughter was born unto him--it is now eighteen years ago--Joel and
his eldest son Guilhern were returning home in a chariot drawn by four of those fine little
Breton oxen whose horns are smaller than their ears. Joel and his son had been laying marl
on their lands, as is usually done in the autumn, so that the lands may be in good condition
for seed-time in the spring. The chariot was slowly climbing up the hill of Craig'h at a place
where that mountainous road is narrowed between two rocks, and from where the sea is seen at
a distance, and still farther away the Isle of Sen--the mysterious and sacred isle.

"Father," Guilhern said to Joel, "look down there below on the flank of the hill. There is
a rider coming this way. Despite the steepness of the descent, he has put his horse to a gallop."

"As sure as the good Elldud invented the plow, that man will break his neck."

"Where can he be riding to in such a hurry? The sun is going down; the wind blows high and
threatens a storm; and that road that leads to the desert strand--"

"Son, that man is not of Breton Gaul. He wears a furred cap and a shaggy coat, and his tanned-skin
hose are fastened with red bands."

"A short axe hangs at his right and he has a long knife in a sheath at his left."

"His large black horse does not seem to stumble in the descent.... Where can he be going in
such a hurry?"

"Father, the man must have lost his way."

"Oh, my son, may Teutates hear you! We shall tender our hospitality to the rider. His dress
tells he is a stranger. What beautiful stories will he not be able to tell us of his country
and his travels!"

"May the divine Ogmi, whose words bind men in golden chains, be propitious to us, father! It
is long since any strange story-teller has sat at our hearth."

"Besides, we have had no news of what is going on elsewhere in Gaul."

"Unfortunately so!"

"Oh, my son, if I were all-powerful as Hesus, I would have a new story-teller every evening
at supper."

"I would send men traveling everywhere, and have them return and tell their adventures."

"And if I had the power of Hesus, what wonderful adventures would I not provide for my travelers
so as to increase the interest in their stories on their return."

"Father, the rider is coming close to us!"

"Yes, he reins in because the road is here narrow, and we bar his passage with our chariot.
Come, Guilhern, the moment is favorable; the passenger must have lost his way; let us offer
him hospitality for to-night. We shall then keep him to-morrow, and perhaps several other days.
We shall have done him a good turn, and he will give us the news from Gaul and of the other
countries that he has visited."

"Besides, it will be a great joy to my sister Hena who is to come home to-morrow for the feast
of her birthday."

"Oh, Guilhern, I never thought of the pleasure that my beloved daughter will have listening
to the stranger! He must be our guest!"

"That he shall be, father! Indeed, he shall!" answered Guilhern resolutely.

Joel and his son alighted from the chariot, and advanced towards the rider. Once close to him,
both were struck with the majesty of the stranger's looks. Nothing haughtier than his eyes,
more masculine than his face, more worthy than his bearing. On his forehead and on one cheek
were visible the traces of two wounds only freshly healed. To judge by his dauntless appearance,
the rider must have been one of those chiefs whom the tribes elect from time to time to lead
them in battle. Joel and his son were all the more anxious to have him accept their hospitality.

"Friend traveler," said Joel, "night is upon us; you have lost your way; the road you are on
leads nowhere but to the desert strands; the tide will soon be washing over them because the
wind is blowing high. To keep on your route by night would be dangerous. Come to my house.
You may resume your journey to-morrow."

"I have not lost my way; I know where I am going to; and I am in a hurry. Turn your oxen aside;
make room for me to pass," was the brusque answer of the rider, whose forehead was wet with
perspiration from the hurry of his course. By his accent he seemed to be from central Gaul,
towards the Loire. After having thus addressed Joel, he struck his large black horse with both
heels in the flanks and tried to draw still nearer to the oxen that now completely barred his
passage.

"Friend traveler, did you not hear me?" rejoined Joel. "I told you that this road led only
to the seashore, that night was on, and that I offer you my house."

The stranger, however, beginning to wax angry, replied: "I do not need your hospitality....
Draw your oxen aside.... Do you not see that the rocks leave me no passage either way?... Hurry
up; I am in haste--"

"Friend," said Joel, "you are a stranger; I am of this country; it is my duty to prevent you
from going astray.... I shall do my duty--"

"By Ritha-Gaür, who made himself a blouse out of the beard of the kings he shaved!" cried the
stranger, now in towering rage. "I have traveled a deal since my beard began to grow, have
seen many countries, many peoples and many strange customs, but never yet have I come across
two fools like these!"

Learning from the mouth of the stranger himself that he had seen many countries, many peoples
and many strange customs, Joel and his son, both of whom were passionately fond of hearing
stories, concluded that many and charming must be the ones the stranger could tell, and they
felt all the more desirous of securing such a guest. Accordingly, so far from turning the chariot
aside, Joel advanced close to the rider, and said to him with the sweetest voice that he could
master, his natural voice being rather rough:

"Friend, you shall go no further! I wish to be respectful to the gods, above all to Teutates,
the god of travelers, and shall therefore keep you from going astray by making you spend a
good night under a good roof, instead of allowing you to wander about the strand, where you
would run the risk of being drowned in the rising tide."

"Take care!" replied the unknown rider carrying his hand to the axe that hung from his belt.
"Take care!... If you do not forthwith turn your oxen aside, I shall make a sacrifice to the
gods, and shall join you to the offering!"

"The gods cannot choose but protect such a worshipper as yourself," answered Joel, who, smiling,
had passed a few words in a low voice to his son. "The gods will prevent you from spending
the night on the strand.... You'll see--"

Father and son precipitated themselves unexpectedly upon the traveler. Each took him by a leg,
and both being large and robust men, raised him erect over his saddle, giving at the same time
a thump with their knees to his horse's belly. The animal ran ahead, and Joel and Guilhern
respectfully lowered the rider on his feet to the ground. Now in a wild rage, the traveler
tried to resist, but before he could draw his knife he was held fast by Joel and Guilhern,
one of whom produced a strong rope with which they firmly tied the stranger's feet and hands--all
of which was done with great mildness and affability on the part of the story-greedy father
and son, who despite the furious wrestling of the stranger, deposited him on the chariot with
increasing respect and politeness, seeing they were increasingly struck by the virile dignity
of his face.

Guilhern then mounted the traveler's horse and followed the chariot that Joel led, urging on
the oxen with his goad. They were in earnest haste to reach the shelter of their house: the
gale increased; the roar of the waves was heard dashing upon the rocks along the coast; streaks
of lightning glistened through the darkening clouds; all the signs portended a stormy night.

All these threatening signs notwithstanding, the unknown rider seemed nowise thankful for the
hospitality that Joel and his son had pressed upon him. Extended on the bottom of the chariot
he was pale with rage. He ground his teeth and puffed at his mouth. But keeping his anger to
himself he said not a word. Joel (it must be admitted) passionately loved a story, but he also
passionately loved to talk. He turned to the stranger:

"My guest, for such you are now, I give thanks to Teutates, the god of travelers, for having
sent me a guest. You should know who I am. I have been chosen brenn of my tribe, which is the
tribe of Karnak. From father to son we have been peasants; we cultivate our fields as best
we can, following the example left by Coll to our ancestors.... We sow more wheat and barley
than rye and oats."

The stranger continued nursing his rage rather than paying any attention to these details.
Joel continued imperturbably:

"Thirty-two years ago, I married Margarid, the daughter of Dorlern. I have from her three sons
and a daughter. The elder boy is there behind us, leading your good black horse, friend guest
... his name is Guilhern. He and several other relatives help me in the cultivation of our
field. I raise a good many black sheep that pasture on our meadows, as well as half-wild hogs,
as vicious as wolves and who never sleep under a roof.... We have some fine meadows in this
valley of Alrè.... I also raise horses, colts of my spirited stallion Tom-Bras.[B] My son amuses
himself raising war and hunting dogs. The hunting dogs are of the breed of a greyhound named
Tyntammar; the ones destined for war are the whelps of a large mastiff named Deber-Trud.[C]
Our horses and our dogs are so renowned that people come more than twenty leagues from here
to buy them. So you see, my guest, that you might have fallen into a worse house."

[B] Ardent.

[C] Man-eater.

The stranger emitted a sigh of suppressed rage, bit what he could reach of his long blonde
mustache and raised his eyes to heaven.

Joel proceeded while pricking his oxen:

"Mikael, my second son, is an armorer at Alrè, four leagues from here.... He does not fashion
war implements only, but also plow-coulters and long Gallic scythes and axes that are highly
prized, because he draws his iron from the mountains of Arres.... But there is more, friend
traveler.... Mikael does other things besides. Before establishing himself at Alrè, he was
at Bourges and worked with one of our parents who is a descendant of the first artisan who
ever conceived the idea of alloying iron and copper with block-tin, a composition in which
the artisans of Bourges excel.... Thus my son Mikael came away a worthy pupil of his masters.
Oh, if you only saw the things he turns out! You would think the horse's bits, the chariot
ornaments, the superb casques of war that Mikael manufactures to be of silver! He has just
finished a casque the point of which represents an elk's head with its horns.... There is nothing
more magnificent!"

"O!" murmured the stranger between his teeth, "how true is the saying: 'The Sword of a Gaul
kills but once, his tongue massacres you without end!'"

"Friend guest, so far I can bestow no praise upon your tongue, which is as silent as a fish's.
But I shall await your leisure, when it will be your turn to tell me who you are, whence you
come, where you are going to, what you have seen in your travels, what wonderful people you
have met, and the latest news from the sections of Gaul that you have traversed. While waiting
for your narratives, I shall finish informing you about myself and family."

At this threat the stranger contorted his members in an effort to snap his bonds; he failed;
the rope was staunch, and Joel as well as his son made perfect knots.

"I have not yet spoken to you of my third son Albinik the sailor," continued Joel. "He traffics
with the island of Great Britanny, as well as all the ports of Gaul, and he goes as far as
Spain carrying Gascony wines and salted provisions from Aquitaine.... Unfortunately he has
been at sea a long time with his lovely wife Meroë; so you will not see them this evening at
my house. I told you that besides three sons I had a daughter ... as to her! Oh, as to her!...
See here," added Joel with an air that was at once boastful and tender, "she is the pearl of
the family.... It is not I only who say so, my wife also, my sons, my whole tribe says the
same thing. There is but one voice to sing the praises of Hena, the daughter of Joel ... of
Hena, one of the virgins of the Isle of Sen."

"What!" cried the traveler sitting up with a start, the only motion allowed to him by his bonds,
that held his feet tied and his arms pinioned behind him. "What? Your daughter? Is she one
of the virgins of the Isle of Sen?"

"That seems to astonish and somewhat mollify you, friend guest!"

"Your daughter?" the stranger proceeded, as if unable to believe what he heard. "Your daughter?...
Is she one of the nine druid priestesses of the Isle of Sen?"

"As true as that to-morrow it will be eighteen years since she was born! We have been preparing
to celebrate her birthday, and you may attend the feast. The guest seated at our hearth is
of our family.... You will see my daughter. She is the most beautiful, the sweetest, the wisest
of her companions, without thereby detracting from any of them."

"Very well, then," brusquely replied the unknown, "I shall pardon you the violence you committed
upon me."

"Hospitable violence, friend."

"Hospitable, or not, you prevented me by force from proceeding to the wharf of Erer, where
a boat awaited me until sunset, to take me to the Isle of Sen."

At these words Joel broke out laughing.

"What are you laughing about?" asked the stranger.

"If you were to tell me that a boat with the head of a dog, the wings of a bird and the tail
of a fish was waiting for you to take you to the sun, I would laugh as loud, and for the same
reason. You are my guest; I shall not insult you by telling you that you lie. But I will tell
you, friend, you are joking when you talk of a boat that is to take you to the Isle of Sen.
No man, excepting the very oldest druids, have ever or ever will set foot on the Isle of Sen."

"And when you go there to see your daughter?"

"I do not step on the isle. I stop at the little island of Kellor. There I wait for my daughter,
and she goes there to meet me."

"Friend Joel," said the traveler, "you have so willed it that I be your guest; I am that, and,
as such, I ask a service of you. Take me to-morrow in your boat to the little island of Kellor."

"Do you know that the ewaghs watch day and night?"

"I know it. It was one of them who was to come for me this evening at the wharf of Erer to
conduct me to Talyessin the oldest of the druids, who, at this hour, is at the Isle of Sen
with his wife Auria."

"That is true!" exclaimed Joel much surprised. "The last time my daughter came home she said
that Talyessin was on the isle since the new year, and that the wife of Talyessin tendered
her a mother's care."

"You see, you may believe me, friend Joel. Take me to-morrow to the island of Kellor; I shall
see one of the ewaghs."

"I consent. I shall take you to the island of Kellor."

"And now you may loosen my bonds. I swear by Hesus that I shall not seek to elude your hospitality."

"Very well," responded Joel, loosening the stranger's bonds; "I trust my guest's promise."

While this conversation proceeded it had grown pitch dark. But the darkness notwithstanding
and the difficulties of the road, the chariot, conducted by the sure hand of Joel, rolled up
before his house. His son, Guilhern, who, mounted on the stranger's horse, had followed the
van, took an ox-horn that was opened at both ends, and using it for a trumpet blew three times.
The signal was speedily answered by a great barking of dogs.

"Here we are at home!" said Joel to the stranger. "Be not alarmed at the barking of the dogs.
Listen! That loud voice that dominates all the others is Deber-Trud's, from whom descends the
valiant breed of war dogs that you will see to-morrow. My son Guilhern will take your horse
to the stable. The animal will find a good shelter and plenty of provender."

At the sound of Guilhern's trump, one of the family came out of the house holding a resin torch.
Guided by the light, Joel led his oxen and the chariot entered the yard.

CHAPTER II.

A GALLIC HOMESTEAD.

Like all other rural homes, Joel's was spacious and round of shape. The walls consisted of
two rows of hurdles, the space between which was filled with a mixture of beaten clay and straw;
the inside and outside of the thick wall was plastered over with a layer of fine and fattish
earth, which, when dry, was hard as sandstone. The roofing was large and projecting. It consisted
of oaken joists joined together and covered with a layer of seaweed laid so thick that it was
proof against water.

On either side of the house stood the barns destined for the storage of the harvest, and also
for the stables, the sheepfolds, the kennels, the storerooms and the washrooms.

These several structures formed an oblong square that surrounded a large yard, closed up at
night with a massive gate. On the outside, a strong palisade, raised on the brow of a deep
ditch, enclosed the system of buildings, leaving between it and them an alley about four feet
wide. Two large and ferocious war mastiffs were let loose during the night in the vacant space.
The palisade had an exterior door that corresponded with an interior one. All were locked at night.

The number of men, women and children--all more or less near relatives of Joel--who cultivated
fields in common with him, was considerable. These lodged in the houses attached to the principal
building, where they met at noon and in the evening to take their joint meals.

Other homesteads, similarly constructed and occupied by numerous families who cultivated lands
in common, lay scattered here and there over the landscape and composed the ligniez, or tribe
of Karnak, of which Joel was chosen chief.

Upon his entrance in the yard of his homestead, Joel was received with the caresses of his
old war dog Deber-Trud, an animal of an iron grey color streaked with black, an enormous head,
blood-shot eyes, and of such a high stature that in standing up to caress his master he placed
his front paws upon Joel's shoulders. He was a dog of such boldness that he once fought a monstrous
bear of the mountains of Arres, and killed him. As to his war qualities, Deber-Trud would have
been worthy of figuring with the war pack of Bithert, the Gallic chieftain who at sight of
a small hostile troop said disdainfully: "They are not enough for a meal for my dogs."

As Deber-Trud looked over and smelled the traveler with a doubtful air, Joel said to the animal:
"Do you not see he is a guest whom I bring home?"

As if he understood the words, Deber-Trud ceased showing any uneasiness about the stranger,
and gamboled clumsily ahead of his master into the house. The house was partitioned into three
sections of unequal size. The two smaller ones, separated from each other and from the main
hall by oaken panels, were destined, one for Joel and his wife, the other for Hena, their daughter,
when she came to visit the family. The vast hall between the two served as a dining-room, and
in it were performed the noon and evening in-door labors.

When the stranger entered the hall, a large fire of beech wood, enlivened with dry brush wood
and seaweed burned in the hearth, and with its brilliancy rendered superfluous the light of
a handsome lamp of burnished copper that hung from three chains of the same metal. The lamp
was a present from Mikael the armorer.

Two whole sheep, impaled in long iron spits broiled before the hearth, while salmon and other
sea fish boiled in a large pewter pot filled with water, seasoned with vinegar, salt and caraway.

The panels were ornamented with heads of wolves, boars, cerfs and of two wild bulls called
urok, an animal that began to be rare in the region; beside them hung hunting weapons, such
as bows, arrows and slings, and weapons of war, such as the sparr and the matag, axes, sabres
of copper, bucklers of wood covered with the tough skin of seals, and long lances with iron
heads, sharpened and barbed and provided with little brass bells, intended to notify the enemy
from afar that the Gallic warrior approached, seeing that the latter disdains ambuscades, and
loves to fight in the open. There were also fishing nets and harpoons to harpoon the salmon
in the shallows when the tide goes out.

To the right of the main door stood a kind of altar, consisting of a block of granite, surmounted
and covered by large oak branches freshly cut. A little copper bowl lay on the stone in which
seven twigs of mistletoe stood. From above, on the wall, the following inscription looked down:

          Abundance and Heaven
        Are for the Just and the Pure.
            He is Pure and Holy
    Who Performs Celestial Works and Pure.

When Joel stepped into the house, he approached the copper basin in which stood the seven branches
of mistletoe and reverently put his lips to each. His guest followed his example, and then
both walked towards the hearth.

At the hearth was Mamm' Margarid, Joel's wife, with a distaff. She was tall of stature, and
wore a short, sleeveless tunic of brown wool over a long robe of grey with narrow sleeves,
both tunic and robe being fastened around her waist with her apron string. A white cap, cut
square, left exposed her grey hair, that parted over her forehead. Like many other women of
her kin, she wore a coral necklace round her neck, bracelets inwrought with garnets and other
trinkets of gold and silver fashioned at Autun.

Around Mamm' Margarid played the children of Guilhern and several other of her kin, while their
young mothers busied themselves preparing supper.

"Margarid," said Joel to his wife, "I bring a guest to you."

"He is welcome," answered the woman without stopping to spin. "The gods send us a guest, our
hearth is his own. The eve of my daughter's birth is propitious."

"May your children when they travel, be received as I am by you," answered the stranger respectfully.

"But you do not yet know what kind of a guest the gods have sent us, Margarid," rejoined Joel;
"such a guest as one would request of Ogmi for the long autumn and winter nights; a guest who
in the course of his travels has seen so many curious things and wonderful that a hundred evenings
would not be too many to listen to his marvelous stories."

Hardly had Joel pronounced these words when, from Mamm' Margarid and the young mothers down
to the little boys and girls, all looked at the stranger with the greed of curiosity, expectant
of the marvelous stories he was to tell.

"Are we to have supper soon, Margarid?" asked Joel. "Our guest is probably as hungry as myself;
I am hungry as a wolf."

"The folk have just gone out to fill the racks of the cattle," answered Margarid; "they will
be back shortly. If our guest is willing we shall be pleased of his company at supper."

"I thank the wife of Joel, and shall wait," said the unknown.

"And while waiting," remarked Joel, "you can tell us a story--"

But the traveler interrupted his host and said smiling:

"Friend, as one cup serves for all, so does the same story serve for all.... The cup will shortly
circulate from lip to lip, and the story from ear to ear.... But now tell me, what is that
brass belt for that I see hanging yonder?"

"Have you not also in your country the belt of agility?"

"Explain yourself, Joel."

"Here, with us, at every new moon, the lads of each tribe come to the chief and try on the
belt, in order to prove that their girth has not broadened with self-indulgence, and that they
have preserved themselves agile and nimble. Those who cannot hitch the belt around themselves,
are hissed, are pointed at with derision, and must pay a fine. Accordingly, all see to their
stomachs lest they come to look like a leathern bottle on two skittles."

"A good custom. I regret it fell into disuse in my province. And what is the purpose of that
big old trunk? It is of precious wood and seems to have seen many years."

"Very many. That is the family trunk of triumph," answered Joel opening the trunk, in which
the stranger saw many whitened skulls. One of them, sawn in two, was mounted on a brass foot
like a cup.

"These are, no doubt, the heads of enemies who have been killed by your fathers, friend Joel?
With us this sort of family charnel houses has long been abandoned."

"With us also. I preserve these heads only out of respect for my ancestors. Since more than
two hundred years, the prisoners of war are no longer mutilated. The habit existed in the days
of the kings whom Ritha-Gaür shaved of their hair, as you mentioned before, to make himself
a blouse out of their beards. Those were gay days of barbarism, were those days of royalty.
I heard my grandfather Kirio say that even as late as in the days of his father, Tiras, the
men who went to war returned to their tribes carrying the heads of their enemies stuck to the
points of their lances, or trailed by the hair from the breast-plates of their horses. They
were then nailed to the doors of the houses for trophies, just as you see yonder on the wall
the heads of wild animals."

"With us, in olden days, friend Joel, these trophies were also preserved, but preserved in
cedar oil when they were the heads of a hostile chieftain."

"By Hesus! Cedar oil!... What magnificence!" exclaimed Joel smiling. "That is the way our wives
reason: 'for good fish, good sauce.'"

"These relics were with us, as with you, the book from which the young Gaul learned of the
exploits of his fathers. Often did the families of the vanquished offer to ransom these spoils;
but to relinquish for money a head conquered by oneself or an ancestor was looked upon as an
unpardonable crime of avarice and impiousness. I say with you, those barbarous customs passed
away with royalty, and with them the days when our ancestors painted their bodies blue and
scarlet, and dyed their hair and beard with lime water to impart to them a copper-red hue."

"Without wronging their memory, friend guest, our ancestors must have been unpleasant beings
to look upon, and must have resembled the frightful red and blue dragons that ornament the
prows of the vessels of those savage pirates of the North that my son Albinik the sailor and
his lovely wife Meroë have told us some curious tales about. But here are our men back from
the stables; we shall not have to wait much longer for supper. I see Margarid unspitting the
lambs. You shall taste them, friend, and see what a fine taste the salt meadows on which they
browse impart to their flesh."

All the men of the family of Joel who entered the hall wore, like him, a sleeveless blouse
of coarse wool, through which the sleeves of their jackets or white shirts were passed. Their
breeches reached down to their ankles; and they were shod with low slippers. Several of these
laborers, just in from the fields, wore over their shoulders a cloak of sheep-skin, which they
immediately took off. All wore woolen caps, long hair cut round, and bushy beards. The last
two to enter held each other by the arm; they were especially handsome and robust.

"Friend Joel," inquired the stranger, "who are those two young fellows? The statues of the
heathen god Mars are not better shaped, nor have so valiant an aspect."

"They are two relatives of mine; two cousins, Julyan and Armel. They love each other like brothers....
Quite recently an enraged bull rushed at Armel and Julyan saved Armel at the peril of his own
life. Thanks to Hesus we are not now in times of war. But should it be necessary to take up
arms, Julyan and Armel have taken 'the pledge of brotherhood'.... But supper is ready.... Come,
yours is the seat of honor."

Joel and the unknown guest drew near the table. It was round and raised somewhat above the
floor which was covered with fresh straw. All around the table were seats bolstered with fragrant
grass. The two broiled muttons, now quartered, were served up in large platters of beechwood,
white as ivory. There were also large pieces of salted pork and a smoked ham of wild boar.
The fish remained in the large pot that they had been boiled in.

At the place where Joel, the head of the family, took his seat, stood a huge cup of plated
copper that even two men could not have drained. It was before that cup, which marked the place
of honor, that the stranger was placed with Joel at his left and Mamm' Margarid at his right.

The old men, the young girls and the children then ranked themselves around the table. The
grown up and the young men sat down behind these in a second row, from which they rose from
time to time to perform some service, or, every time that, passing from hand to hand, beginning
with the stranger, the large cup was empty, to fill it from a barrel of hydromel, that was
placed at a corner of the hall. Furnished with a piece of barley or wheat bread, everyone received
or took a slice of broiled or salted meat, which he cut up with his knife, or into which he
bit freely without the help of knife.

The old war-dog Deber-Trud, enjoying the privileges of his age and long years of service, lay
at the feet of Joel, who did not forget his faithful servitor.

Towards the end of the meal, Joel having carved the wild boar ham, detached the hoof, and following
an ancient custom, said to his young relative Armel, handing it to him:

"To you, Armel, belongs the bravest part! To you, the vanquisher in last evening's fight!"

At the moment when, proud of being pronounced the bravest in the presence of the stranger,
Armel was stretching out his hand to take the wild boar's hoof that Joel presented to him,
an exceptionally short man in the family, nicknamed "Stumpy" by reason of his small stature,
observed aloud:

"Armel won in yesterday's fight because he was not fighting with Julyan. Two bullocks of equal
strength avoid and fear each other, and do not lock horns."

Feeling humiliated at hearing it said of them, and before a stranger, that they did not fight
together because they were mutually afraid of each other, Julyan and Armel grew red in the face.

With sparkling eyes, Julyan cried: "If I did not fight with Armel it was because someone else
took my place; but Julyan fears Armel as little as Armel fears Julyan; and if you were but
one inch taller, Stumpy, I would show you on the spot that, beginning with you, I fear nobody--not
even my good brother Armel--"

"Good brother Julyan!" added Armel whose eyes also began to glisten, "we shall have to prove
to the stranger that we do not fear each other."

"Done, Armel--let's fight with sabres and bucklers."

The two friends reached out their hands to each other and pressed them warmly. They entertained
no rancor for each other; they loved each other as warmly as ever; the combat decided upon
by them was a not uncommon outbreak of foolhardiness.

Joel was not sorry at seeing his kin act bravely before his guest; and his family shared his views.

At the announcement of the battle, everybody present, even the little children and young women
and girls felt joyful; they clapped their hands smiling and looked at each other proud of the
good opinion that the unknown visitor was to form of the courage of their family.

