When the story of bloodshed at Bunker Hill reached Bohemia Hall, in Cecil County, Maryland,
Albert De Courcy left his brother Ernest to support the dignity of the house and make patriotic
speeches, while he went to the front, conscious that Helen Carmichael, his affianced wife,
was watching, in pride and sadness, the departure of his company. Letters came and went, as
they always do, until rumor came of a sore defeat to the colonials at Long Island; then the
letters ceased.

It was a year later when a ragged soldier, who had stopped at the hall for supper, told of
Albert's heroism in covering the retreat of Washington. The gallant young officer had been
shot, he said, as he attempted to swim the morasses of Gowanus. But this soldier was in error.
Albert had been vexatiously bogged on the edge of the creek. While floundering in the mud a
half dozen sturdy red-coats had lugged him out and he was packed off to the prison-ships anchored
in the Wallabout. In these dread hulks, amid darkness and miasma, living on scant, unwholesome
food, compelled to see his comrades die by dozens every day and their bodies flung ashore where
the tide lapped away the sand thrown over them, De Courcy wished that death instead of capture
had been his lot, for next to his love he prized his liberty.

One day he was told off, with a handful of others, for transfer to a stockade on the Delaware,
and how his heart beat when he learned that the new prison was within twenty miles of home!
His flow of spirits returned, and his new jailers liked him for his frankness and laughed at
his honest expletives against the king. He had the liberty of the enclosure, and was not long
in finding where the wall was low, the ditch narrow, and the abatis decayed--knowledge that
came useful to him sooner than he expected, for one day a captured horse was led in that made
straight for him with a whinny and rubbed his nose against his breast.

"Why!" he cried,--"it's Cecil! My horse, gentlemen--or, was. Not a better hunter in Maryland!"

"Yes," answered one of the officers. "We've just taken him from your brother. He's been stirring
trouble with his speeches and has got to be quieted. But we'll have him to-day, for he's to
be married, and a scouting party is on the road to nab him at the altar."

"Married! My brother! What! Ernest, the lawyer, the orator? Ho, ho! Ah, but it's rather hard
to break off a match in that style!"

"Hard for him, maybe; but they say the lady feels no great love for him. He made it seem like
a duty to her, after her lover died."

"How's that? Her own--what's her name?"

"Helen--Helen Carmichael, or something like that."

Field and sky swam before De Courcy's eyes for a moment; then he resumed, in a calm voice,
and with a pale, set face, "Well, you're making an unhappy wedding-day for him. If he had Cecil
here he would outride you all. Ah, when I was in practice I could ride this horse and snatch
a pebble from the ground without losing pace!"

"Could you do it now?"

"I'm afraid long lodging in your prison-ships has stiffened my joints, but I'd venture at a
handkerchief."

"Then try," said the commandant.

De Courcy mounted into the saddle heavily, crossed the grounds at a canter, and dropped a handkerchief
on the grass. Then, taking a few turns for practice, he started at a gallop and swept around
like the wind. His seat was so firm, his air so noble, his mastery of the steed so complete,
that a cheer of admiration went up. He seemed to fall headlong from the saddle, but was up
again in a moment, waving the handkerchief gayly in farewell--for he kept straight on toward
the weak place in the wall. A couple of musket-balls hummed by his ears: it was neck or nothing
now! A tremendous leap! Then a ringing cry told the astonished soldiers that he had reached
the road in safety. Through wood and thicket and field he dashed as if the fiend were after
him, and never once did he cease to urge his steed till he reached the turnpike, and saw ahead
the scouting party on its way to arrest his brother.

Turning into a path that led to the rear of the little church they were so dangerously near,
he plied hands and heels afresh, and in a few moments a wedding party was startled by the apparition
of a black horse, all in a foam, ridden by a gaunt man, in torn garments, that burst in at
the open chancel-door. The bridegroom cowered, for he knew his brother. The bride gazed in
amazement. "'Tis the dead come to life!" cried one. De Courcy had little time for words. He
rode forward to the altar, swung Helen up behind him, and exclaimed, "Save yourselves! The
British are coming! To horse, every one, and make for the manor!" There were shrieks and fainting--and
perhaps a little cursing, even if it was in church,--and when the squadron rode up most of
the company were in full flight. Ernest was taken, and next morning held his brother's place
on the prison-list, while, as arrangements had been made for a wedding, there was one, and
a happy one, but Albert was the bridegroom.

SPOOKS OF THE HIAWASSEE

The hills about the head of the Hiawassee are filled with "harnts," among them many animal
ghosts, that ravage about the country from sheer viciousness. The people of the region, illiterate
and superstitious, have unquestioning faith in them. They tell you about the headless bull
and black dog of the valley of the Chatata, the white stag of the Sequahatchie, and the bleeding
horse of the Great Smoky Mountains--the last three being portents of illness, death, or misfortune
to those who see them.

Other ghosts are those of men. Near the upper Hiawassee is a cave where a pile of human skulls
was found by a man who had put up his cabin near the entrance. For some reason, which he says
he never understood, this farmer gathered up the old, bleached bones and dumped them into his
shed. Quite possibly he did not dare to confess that he wanted them for fertilizers or to burn
them for his poultry.

Night fell dark and still, with a waning moon rising over the mountains--as calm a night as
ever one slept through. Along toward the middle of it a sound like the coming of a cyclone
brought the farmer out of his bed. He ran to the window to see if the house were to be uprooted,
but the forest was still, with a strange, oppressive stillness--not a twig moving, not a cloud
veiling the stars, not an insect chirping. Filled with a vague fear, he tried to waken his
wife, but she was like one in a state of catalepsy.

Again the sound was heard, and now he saw, without, a shadowy band circling about his house
like leaves whirled on the wind. It seemed to be made of human shapes, with tossing arms--this
circling band--and the sound was that of many voices, each faint and hollow, by itself, but
loud in aggregate. He who was watching realized then that the wraiths of the dead whose skulls
he had purloined from their place of sepulture were out in lament and protest. He went on his
knees at once and prayed with vigor until morning. As soon as it was light enough to see his
way he replaced the skulls, and was not troubled by the "haunts" again. All the gold in America,
said he, would not tempt him to remove any more bones from the cave-tombs of the unknown dead.

LAKE OF THE DISMAL SWAMP

Drummond's Pond, or the Lake of the Dismal Swamp, is a dark and lonely tarn that lies in the
centre of this noted Virginia morass. It is, in a century-old tradition, the Styx of two unhappy
ghosts that await the end of time to pass its confines and enjoy the sunshine of serener worlds.
A young woman of a family that had settled near this marsh died of a fever caused by its malarial
exhalations, and was buried near the swamp. The young man to whom she was betrothed felt her
loss so keenly that for days he neither ate nor slept, and at last broke down in mind and body.
He recovered a measure of physical health, after a time, but his reason was hopelessly lost.

It was his hallucination that the girl was not dead, but had been exiled to the lonely reaches
of this watery wilderness. He was heard to mutter, "I'll find her, and when Death comes I'll
hide her in the hollow of a cypress until he passes on." Evading restraint, he plunged into
the fen, and for some days he wandered there, eating berries, sleeping on tussocks of grass,
with water-snakes crawling over him and poisonous plants shedding their baneful dew on his
flesh. He came to the lake at last. A will-o'the-wisp played along the surface. "'Tis she!"
he cried. "I see her, standing in the light." Hastily fashioning a raft of cypress boughs he
floated it and pushed toward the centre of the pond, but the eagerness of his efforts and the
rising of a wind dismembered the frail platform, and he fell into the black water to rise no
more. But often, in the night, is seen the wraith of a canoe, with a fire-fly lamp burning
on its prow, restlessly urged to and fro by two figures that seem to be vainly searching for
an exit from the place, and that are believed to be those of the maiden and her lover.

THE BARGE OF DEFEAT

Rappannock River, in Virginia, used to be vexed with shadowy craft that some of the populace
affirmed to be no boats, but spirits in disguise. One of these apparitions was held in fear
by the Democracy of Essex County, as it was believed to be a forerunner of Republican victory.
The first recorded appearance of the vessel was shortly after the Civil War, on the night of
a Democratic mass-meeting at Tappahannock. There were music, refreshments, and jollity, and
it was in the middle of a rousing speech that a man in the crowd cried, "Look, fellows! What
is that queer concern going down the river?"

The people moved to the shore, and by the light of their torches a hulk was seen drifting with
the stream--a hulk of fantastic form unlike anything that sails there in the daytime. As it
came opposite the throng, the torchlight showed gigantic negroes who danced on deck, showing
horrible faces to the multitude. Not a sound came from the barge, the halloos of the spectators
bringing no response, and some boatmen ventured into the stream, only to pull back in a hurry,
for the craft had become so strangely enveloped in shadow that it seemed to melt into air.

Next day the Democracy was defeated at the polls, chiefly by the negro vote. In 1880 it reappeared,
and, as before, the Republicans gained the day. Just before the election of 1886, Mr. Croxton,
Democratic nominee for Congress, was haranguing the people, when the cry of "The Black Barge!"
arose. Argument and derision were alike ineffectual with the populace. The meeting broke up
in silence and gloom, and Mr. Croxton was defeated by a majority of two thousand.

NATURAL BRIDGE

Though several natural bridges are known in this country, there is but one that is famous the
world over, and that is the one which spans Clear Creek, Virginia--the remnant of a cave-roof,
all the rest of the cavern having collapsed. It is two hundred and fifteen feet above the water,
and is a solid mass of rock forty feet thick, one hundred feet wide, and ninety feet in span.
Thomas Jefferson owned it; George Washington scaled its side and carved his name on the rock
a foot higher than any one else. Here, too, came the youth who wanted to cut his name above
Washington's, and who found, to his horror, when half-way up, that he must keep on, for he
had left no resting-places for his feet at safe and reachable distances--who, therefore, climbed
on and on, cutting handhold and foothold in the limestone until he reached the top, in a fainting
state, his knife-blade worn to a stump. Here, too, in another tunnel of the cavern, flows Lost
River, that all must return to, at some time, if they drink of it. Here, beneath the arch,
is the dark stain, so like a flying eagle that the French officer who saw it during the Revolution
augured from it a success for the united arms of the nations that used the eagle as their symbol.

The Mohegans knew this wonder of natural masonry, for to this point they were pursued by a
hostile tribe, and on reaching the gulf found themselves on the edge of a precipice that was
too steep at that point to descend. Behind them was the foe; before them, the chasm. At the
suggestion of one of their medicine-men they joined in a prayer to the Great Spirit for deliverance,
and when again they looked about them, there stood the bridge. Their women were hurried over;
then, like so many Horatii, they formed across this dizzy highway and gave battle. Encouraged
by the knowledge that they had a safe retreat in case of being overmastered, they fought with
such heart that the enemy was defeated, and the grateful Mohegans named the place the Bridge
of God.

THE SILENCE BROKEN

It was in 1734 that Joist Hite moved from Pennsylvania to Virginia, with his wife and boys,
and helped to make a settlement on the Shenandoah twelve miles south of Woodstock. When picking
berries at a distance from the village, one morning, the boys were surprised by Indians, who
hurried with them into the wilderness before their friends could be apprised. Aaron, the elder,
was strong, and big of frame, with coarse, black hair, and face tanned brown; but his brother
was small and fair, with blue eyes and yellow locks, and it was doubtless because he was a
type of the hated white race that the Indians spent their blows and kicks on him and spared
the sturdy one. Aaron was wild with rage at the injuries put upon his gentle brother, but he
was bound and helpless, and all that he could do was to encourage him to bear a stout heart
and not to fall behind.

But Peter was too delicate to keep up, and there came a day when he could go no farther. The
red men consulted for a few moments, then all of them stood apart but one, who fitted an arrow
to his bow. The child's eyes grew big with fear, and Aaron tore at his bonds, but uselessly,
and shouted that he would take the victim's place, but no one understood his speech, and in
another moment Peter lay dead on the earth, with an arrow in his heart. Aaron gave one cry
of hate and despair, and he, too, sank unconscious. On coming to himself he found that he was
in a hut of boughs, attended by an old Indian, who told him in rude English that he was recovering
from an illness of several weeks' duration, and that it was the purpose of his tribe to adopt
him. When the lad tried to protest he found to his amazement that he could not utter a sound,
and he learned from the Indian that the fever had taken away his tongue. In the dulness and
weakness of his state he submitted to be clothed in Indian dress, smeared with a juice that
browned his skin, and greeted by his brother's slayers as one of themselves. When he looked
into a pool he found that he had, to all intents, become an Indian. In time he became partly
reconciled to this change, for he did not know and could not ask where the white settlements
lay; his appearance and his inability to speak would prevent his recognition by his friends,
the red men were not unkind to him, and every boy likes a free and out-door life. They taught
him to shoot with bow and arrow, but they kept him back if a white settlement was to be plundered.

