I have been at pains to make my position clear on the point of Democracy, but being a whole-hearted
believer in the Democratic principle does not, of course, prevent one having strong views on
specific and particular points of policy, or having affinities with particular schools of political
thought. By inclination and conviction I belong to the Moderates. Whether they are called Independents,
or Whigs, or men of the Left Centre, or Anti-revolutionaries, does not greatly matter. I prefer
the Whig variety when the Whigs were at their best, that is, in the days of the Revolution
of 1688, the days of Halifax and Somers. No doubt the Whigs, like every other party, became
corrupted by too easy and too prolonged possession of power, for power, when it is too easily
attained and too securely held, is a great corrupter. Lord Halifax gives a description of The
Trimmer, by which term he meant, of course, not a man of vacillation or timidity, but the man
who deliberately "trims" the boat of State and endeavours to keep her on an even keel. When
he sees that there are too many people, or too much cargo, on one side, with the result that
the boat is heeling over, he trims her by throwing his weight, or his portmanteaus, to the
other side. The trimmer does not want to stop the progress of the boat, but he wants her progress
to be safe and not risky. He does not object to things being done, but he does object to them
being done in a wrong way, or in an ineffective way. But, though the true Whig is a man of
compromise, he is not afraid of working for specific objects of which he approves, in company
with people who perhaps disagree with him on fundamentals. He makes no lepers in politics,
except of those who favour corruption and demoralisation; but will work honestly for a good
cause with any honest man, no matter what his abstract opinions. For example, I have always
loved the old saying about the Whigs and the Republicans. The Whig leader says to the Radical
extremist, "You want to go the whole way to Windsor. We want to go only half-way; but, at any
rate, we can keep together as far as Hounslow."

The mention of Monarchy suggests a word or two about my own personal position on a point which,
though not now of practical importance, may conceivably become so in the near future. I am
one of those people who might without error be described as a theoretical Republican and a
practical Constitutional Monarchist. I feel that in theory nobody could in these days set up
an hereditary Constitutional Monarchy. At the same time, there are a great number of practical
advantages in a limited and Constitutional Monarchy, and when it exists only fools and pedants
would get rid of it. We possess, in fact, all the advantages of a Republic and also all the
advantages of a Monarchy, and these are by no means small.

In a word, I have always agreed with Burke on this matter. Burke, quoting from Bolingbroke,
says somewhere--I forget where for the moment, but I think in one of his Speeches in the House
of Commons--that he prefers a Monarchy to a Republic for the following reason: "It is much
easier to engraft the advantages of a Republic upon a Monarchy than it is to engraft the advantages
of a Monarchy upon a Republic." That is obviously true, though I admit that the drafters of
the American Constitution made an attempt--in some ways very successful--to implant some of
the advantages of a Monarchy upon their Republic. The reason behind the aphorism of "Burke
out of Bolingbroke" is obvious. The stock on which the graft is made is not the thing which
you wish to fructify. It is the inactive base. Constitutional Monarchy is just the stock you
want. In the first place, it is permanent--that is, its roots are in the ground. But though
the stock does not need to be changed, you can change and renew your graft as much and as often
as you like. You get through the Monarchy stability and continuity, and you can make as much
or as little of your Monarch as occasion requires. If he is a specially vicious or untrustworthy
man, you can get rid of him. If he is an imbecile, you can, have a Regency. If he is a nonentity,
you can, through the Constitutional principle that the King reigns but does not govern, see
that your system is not interfered with. If, on the other hand, the King is a sensible man
with a high sense of public duty and of fine personal character, as, for example, the present
occupant of the Throne, there gradually grows up a power and influence in the State which is
of the very greatest use. The King gets for the whole nation a position analogous to that which
the permanent official gets in a great Department of State. He has not the power of the Secretary
of State, but his knowledge and experience give him immense weight. In a word, a monarch, after
fifteen or twenty years of experience, in which he had seen Ministries go up and down, parties
blossom and wither, develops an instinct for government which is very valuable. He becomes
an ideal adviser for his advisers.

I well remember being immensely struck by the emergence of this point of view in the speech
which Lord Salisbury made in the House of Lords on the death of Queen Victoria. Without exactly
using the phrase, he described how the Queen advised her advisers. He spoke of the occasions
on which the Queen had tendered her admonitions to the Cabinet, and went on to say that the
Queen knew the English people so thoroughly and so sympathetically, and had such an instinct
for interpreting their wishes, that it was always with grave anxiety and doubt that her Ministers
refrained from taking her advice or finally decided to disregard her warnings on some specific
matter of policy, which involved possibilities of a clash with public opinion.

No one who has studied the law of the Constitution and the history of its growth can but feel
a kind of instinctive awe for the happy series of accidents, tempered by human wisdom, which
has given us the Constitution we possess. Under the Act of Settlement and the various Declaratory
Statutes regulating the powers of the Monarch and promulgated at the time of the Revolution
of 1688, for example, "The Bill of Rights," we have a crowned Republic with a royal and hereditary
President. We talk about the King being Sovereign "by Divine Right" and "by the Grace of God,"
but, of course, in fact, the King's title is a purely Parliamentary one, and is derived from
an Act of Parliament--an Act of Parliament which settles the Throne upon "the heirs of the
body of the Electress Sophia," who shall join in communion with the Church of England and who
shall not be a member of the Roman Catholic Church or intermarry with a Roman Catholic.

Therefore, when the Sovereign dies and a new Sovereign succeeds, he succeeds in virtue of an
Act of Parliament, and in no other way. He is the choice of the people. The repeal of the Act
of Settlement would put another man in his place, and, again, an amendment of the Act of Settlement
might secure the selection of some other member of the Royal Family, instead of the person
previously designated to succeed by the Act of Settlement.

But these, of course, are legal technicalities. The British Monarchy is an early example of
Whiggism. The theory may be pedantic, or, if you will, ridiculous, but the result is excellent.
It is a practical working-out of the national determination, partly conscious and partly subconscious,
to obtain for our use the best features of a Monarchy and of a Republic. This, no doubt, would
horrify the acute, analytical minds of the Latin races. Again, the philosophic Teuton would
despise it as incomprehensible. Only those possessed of the Anglo-Saxon temperament by birth
or training--that is, only English-speaking persons, whether British or American, can appreciate
fully the British political and constitutional system. Indeed, it sometimes has the effect
of producing in foreigners a sense of desperation. Old Mirabeau, surnamed "The Friend of Man,"
the father of the great Mirabeau, and a political philosopher of no mean order, was reduced
to a paroxysm of incoherent rage by the mere contemplation of our Constitution. "Those miserable
islanders do not know, and will not know until their whole wretched system comes to its inevitable
destruction, whether they are living under a Monarchy or a Republic, a Democracy or an Oligarchy."
A wit with a penchant for the vernacular might well reply, "That's the spirit!" It is this
that will last, while what delights and soothes the well-balanced mind of the clear-thinking
Academicians of the Constitutional Law flaunts and goes down an unregarded thing. As Sir Thomas
Browne said long ago, nations are not governed by ergotisms (or as we should say syllogisms)
but by instinct and common sense.

Natural parts and good judgments rule the world. States are not governed by ergotisms. Many
have ruled well, who could not, perhaps, define a commonwealth; and they who understand not
the globe of the earth command a great part of it. Where natural logick prevails not, artificial
too often faileth. Where nature fills the sails, the vessel goes smoothly on; and when judgment
is the pilot, the insurance need not be high.

Though one may be both a Democrat and a Whig, and yet think there is no better function for
the good citizen than to trim the boat, this does not necessarily mean that one cannot be a
party politician. Party, in spite of all the very obvious objections that can be raised against
it, is, it seems to me, absolutely necessary to representative government. If you choose out
of the body of the population a certain number of men to rule, those men are sure to have divergent
views and aims. As Stevenson said about our railway system, "Wherever there is competition
there can also be combination." The first instinct of a body of men with number of divergent
opinions is for those who have similar or allied aims to get together and take combined action.
But the moment that has happened you have got a party system. The party system is, indeed,
first a plain recognition of these facts, and then an organization of the common will.

As the party system grows and intensifies, it alters its phenomena, but its essentials are
always the same. The main objection to the party system lies in the closeness and strictness
of its organisation. The best party system is one in which the organisation is not too perfect,
and from which it is comparatively easy to break away. The really bad party system is that
in which a man is caught so tightly and becomes so deeply involved in party loyalty, or what
may be called the freemasonry side of politics, that he grows into feeling a kind of moral
obligation to stick to his party, right or wrong. Party tends, that is, to become a kind of
horrible parody of patriotism. Oddly enough, the less clear are the dividing-lines between
parties and the less real the distinctions between the views that they wish to carry out, the
more intense the party spirit seems to become, and the more impossible it is for the members
to break away. Though they disagree at heart with the proceedings of their leaders and disapprove
of the party's action as a whole, they seem condemned to adhere to the platform.

I remember a luciferous story which was told to me by Colonel John Hay to illustrate the frenzy
of party. A murderer was supposed to have entered the house of a great Republican politician
and, holding a dagger over him, to have told him that his hour was come and that he must die.
The politician tried every appeal he could think of. "Consider," he said, "my poor wife and
the misery she will feel at my death." "I am sorry for her, but it cannot be helped. You must
die." "But think of my poor innocent children who will be left helpless orphans." "I am sorry
for them too, but you must die." "Think of the evil effect on the country at this moment of
crisis." "Yes, I know, and I am sorry; but that cannot move me. You must die." And then came
the final appeal, "But think of the effect on the Republican Party!" Across the would-be murderer's
face came a quiver of irresolution. The dagger dropped from his hands, and with the cry, "Good
heavens! I never thought of that," he rushed from the room.

But though this is the danger, there is, happily, no need for us to carry the party system
quite so far as that. Party discipline there must be, but it can be kept well within bounds.
Nothing is more wholesome than for party leaders to know that if they push things too far and
too often ask their followers to condone doubtful acts, their followers will leave them. Clearly,
as the Irishman said of the truth, this spirit of independence must not be dragged out on every
paltry occasion. It must, however, always remain in the background as a possibility, and, what
is more even those who do not themselves revolt would be well advised to prevent extreme penal
measures being applied within the party to a man who breaks away on a particular point.

For myself, curiously enough, I never felt any dislike of party, and was, indeed, I fondly
believe, designed by Providence for a good and loyal party man, with no inconvenient desire
to assert my own views. A perverse fate, however, has forced me twice in my life to break with
my party, or, to put it more correctly, it has twice happened to me that the party to which
I belonged adopted the policy that I had always deemed it essential to oppose. To begin with,
I left the Liberal Party, to which my family had always belonged ever since the time of the
Commonwealth, over Mr. Gladstone's sudden conversion to Home Rule and the abandonment of the
Legislative Union. Whether I was right or wrong I am not going to discuss here. At any rate
I followed Lord Hartington, Mr. Chamberlain, Mr. John Bright, the Duke of Argyll, and a host
of other good Liberals and Whigs and became, first a Liberal-Unionist, and then an unhyphenated
Unionist, and a loyal supporter of Lord Salisbury, Mr. Balfour, and their administration.

In the Unionist Party, which has become quite as thoroughly Democratic as its opponent, I had
hoped to live and die, but unfortunately, there came the one other question upon which I felt
it my duty to take as strong a line as I did in opposing the very injurious and unjust form
of Home Rule which first Mr. Gladstone, and then Mr. Asquith, advocated.

People who have forgotten, or who are not aware of the actual conditions, may think it strange
that I, who proclaim myself so strongly in favour of obeying the Will of the Majority, should
have become so strong a Unionist. A little reflection will show, however, that not only was
there nothing contradictory in my attitude, but that it was natural and inevitable from my
democratic premises. I held the Union with Ireland to be as much an incorporating union as
the union between the several States of the American Republic. I held that the Will of the
Majority must prevail within the United Kingdom. The area in which the votes were to be counted
was, in a word, to be the whole national area, and not a small portion of it. As I have argued
for the last thirty-five years, in public and in private, and as I still feel, the Home Rule
Question is and always must be a question of area.

The area which I took for the decision, and which I still think was the right area to give
the decision, was the United Kingdom. If any other were adopted, you might very soon fritter
away the whole United Kingdom. Again, if we are to make a great financial present, as the Irish
claim we must do, from the taxpayer of the centre to the detached fragments of the circumference,
the process becomes a tragedy. If Ireland may go at the wish of her electors, so, of course,
may Scotland, and so may Wales, each with their subsidy from England. Next, outlying portions
of England may want to break away. The result would be a veritable apotheosis of political
fissiparousness.

In spite of this, I admit that you cannot fight a political battle on the principle of the
reductio ad absurdum. The people of England might hold that for special reasons Ireland would
have a right to separate, but that this must not be a precedent to be applied to the rest of
Britain. Assuming, however, that Ireland shall have exceptional treatment, I saw, as of course,
did many other people, for I am not so foolish as to make any claim to seeing further than
my neighbours, that the question of area again controlled the event. Ireland was not a homogeneous
country. There were two Irelands--the Ireland of the North and the Ireland of the South, the
Ireland of the Celt and of the Teuton, and, above all, the Ireland in which Roman Catholics
formed a large majority of the population, and the Ireland in which the Protestants formed
the local majority. In a word, the twenty-six counties of the South and the six counties of
the North differed in every respect. Neither could justly be put in control of the other; though
both might be united through a Union with England, Scotland, and Wales.

From these premises I drew certain inferences, which I believe to be entirely sound. One was
that you could not say that Ireland, as a whole, might claim to break away from the United
Kingdom, and then refuse the claim of the Six-County Area to break away from the rest of Ireland.
Arguments against the diversion and disruption of Ireland would be exactly the same as those
used by the Unionists to forbid the destruction of the United Kingdom. Feeling this, as I did,
when Mr. Gladstone introduced his second Home Rule Bill, I took an early opportunity of going
over to Belfast and ascertaining the facts on the spot. I was confirmed in my view that there
could be no solution of the Irish Question which would be either just, or reasonable, or efficient,
that did not recognise the existence of the two Irelands--which did not, in effect, say to
the Nationalists, "If you insist on your pound of flesh and break up an arrangement which has
done so much for Ireland as a whole, that is, the Legislative Union, you must also yield the
pound of flesh to the people of North-East Ulster, a community which does not want the United
Kingdom to be partitioned, any more than you want Ireland to be partitioned." In this faith
I have remained. I believe that the breaking-up of the Legislative Union with Ireland was bad
for England, bad for Ireland, and bad for the Empire; but if it should be the Will of the People
of the United Kingdom, then that Will could only be equitably applied by a recognition of the
existence of the two Irelands. Yet this simple fact Liberal party politicians like Mr. Gladstone,
Mr. Asquith, and their followers either absolutely ignored, or else sapiently admitted that
it was a serious difficulty and then passed on to the purchase of the Southern Irish vote for
other purposes!

