Through St. Dunstan's to Light

BY

PRIVATE JAMES H. RAWLINSON

58TH BATTALION, C.E.F.

TORONTO

THOMAS ALLEN

1919

COPYRIGHT, CANADA, 1919 BY THOMAS ALLEN

CONTENTS

   CHAPTER I

   PAGE

   My Ticket for Blighty                                               1

   CHAPTER II

   In Blighty                                                         14

   CHAPTER III

   At St. Dunstan's                                                   23

   CHAPTER IV

   Braille                                                            32

   CHAPTER V

   The Spirit of St. Dunstan's                                        37

   CHAPTER VI

   Air Raids                                                          45

   CHAPTER VII

   Royal Visitors                                                     55

   CHAPTER VIII

   In Playtime                                                        61

   CHAPTER IX

   Memories of the Fighting Front                                     68

   CHAPTER X

   The Point of View of the Sightless                                 74

ILLUSTRATIONS

   Private James H. Rawlinson                             Frontispiece

   The Boot-Repairing Workshop        Facing Page                   12

   Sir Arthur Pearson                   "     "                       16

   St. Dunstan's: The House             "     "                       24

   The Carpenter Shop                   "     "                       30

   The Braille Room                     "     "                       34

   Mat Weaving                          "     "                       56

   Sightless Canadian Four              "     "                       66

   Basket Weaving                       "     "                       84

THROUGH ST. DUNSTAN'S TO LIGHT

CHAPTER I

MY TICKET FOR BLIGHTY

In the World War, it was not only the men who went "over the top" to assault enemy positions
who ran great risks. Scouts, snipers, patrols, working parties, all took their lives in their
hands every time they ventured into No Man's Land, and even those who were engaged in essential
work behind the lines were far from being safe from death or wounds. On the morning of June
7th, 1917, before dawn had broken, I was out with a working party. Suddenly, overhead, sounded
the ominous drumming and droning of an aeroplane. It proved to be a Hun plane; the aviator
had spotted us, and was speedily in touch with the battery for which he was working. Fortunately
for us, he had mistaken our exact position, and evidently thought we were on a road which ran
towards the front line about thirty yards to our left. The enemy guns, in answer to his signals,
opened up with a terrific fire, and the scenery round about was soon in a fine mess. Shells
of varying calibre came thundering in our direction, throwing up, as they burst, miniature
volcanoes and filling the air with dust and mud and smoke. This shell-fire continued for about
three-quarters of an hour, but due to the defect in the aviator's signals and our own skill
in taking cover we suffered no casualties. We were congratulating ourselves that we were to
pass through this ordeal uninjured, when suddenly a 5.9-inch shell fell short. It exploded
almost in our midst, and I was unlucky enough to get in the way of one of the shrapnel bullets.
I felt a slight sting in my right temple as though pricked by a red-hot needle--and then the
world became black.

Dawn was now breaking, but night had sealed my eyes, and I could only grope my way among my
comrades. I was hit about 2.30 a.m., and it speaks volumes for the Medical Service that at
2 p.m. I was tucked safely in bed in a thoroughly-equipped hospital many miles from the scene
of my mishap.

Willing hands tenderly dressed my wounds and led me to the foot of the ridge on which we were
located. I was then placed on a stretcher, and carried up the slope to one of the narrow-gauge
railways that had been run to the crest of Vimy Ridge. I was now taken to the end of what is
called the Y Road, and thence borne to one of the ambulances which are always in waiting there,
grim reminders of the work in hand.

My first impression of my ambulance driver was that I had fallen into the hands of a Good Samaritan.
He was most solicitous about the welfare of the "head-case," and kept showering me with questions,
such as: "Are you comfortable, Mac?" (everyone in the Canadian Corps was "Mac" to the stranger).
"Tell me if I am driving too fast for you; you know, the roads are a little lumpy round here."
I didn't know it, but I was quickly to become aware of the fact. His words and his driving
did not harmonize; if he missed a single shell-hole in the wide stretch of France through which
he drove, it was not his fault. I shall never forget the agony of that drive; but at length,
bruised and shaken, I arrived at the Casualty Clearing Station at--but, no, I will not mention
its name; some of my readers may know the men who were there at the time of my arrival, and
there is pain enough in the world without unnecessarily adding to the total. At the Clearing
Station I learned two things: First, that all the best souvenirs of the war are in the possession
of men who seldom or never saw the front line; and, secondly, the real meaning, so far as the
wounded "Tommy" is concerned, of the letters R.A.M.C. The official records say they stand for
the Royal Army Medical Corps; but ask the men who have passed through the hands of the Corps.
They'll tell you with picturesque vehemence, and there will be nothing Royal or Medical in
their answer. For my own poor part, here's hoping that the thirty-eight francs that disappeared
from my pockets while in their hands did some good somewhere. But I sadly wanted that money
while in the hospital at Boulogne to satisfy a craving I had for oranges. Perhaps the beer
or eau de vie that it no doubt purchased did more good than the oranges would have done me.
Again, let us hope so!

From the Casualty Clearing Station I was taken to the hospital at St. Omer, which was later
to be laid flat by Hun air raids. And here, for the first time, I realized the full weight
of the calamity that had overtaken me, and what being "windy" really meant. I was first visited
by the M.O., who removed my bandage and had my head skilfully dressed; after him came a priest
of the Church to which I belonged, who administered to me the rites of the Church; then followed
the assistant matron, who endeavoured to cheer me up by asking if I wished to have any letters
written home. Before my inward eyes there began to flash visions of a newspaper notice: "Died
of wounds." But although a bit alarmed, more by the attentions shown me than by my physical
condition, the thought of pegging-out never seriously entered my mind.

I spent four days at the hospital at St. Omer, and was then transferred to Boulogne, together
with a New Zealand sergeant who was in the same plight as myself, and whom I later had the
pleasure of meeting under more favourable and happier conditions at dear old St. Dunstan's.
At Boulogne, I was given a thorough examination, and the doctors concluded that an absolutely
useless member of the body was an unnecessary burden to the bearer, and so they removed what
remained of my left eye. I was still vainly hoping that my right eye, which was remote from
my wound, might recover its sight; but as the days crept by while the blackness of night hung
about me I grew alarmed, and one day I asked the O.C. hospital why he was constantly lifting
up my right eyelid. Truth to tell, I was scared stiff with the thought that they were contemplating
removing my remaining eye, but I gave no outward sign of my fear. No matter how "windy" one
is, it would never do to let the other fellow know it, at least not while you are wearing the
uniform of the Canadians. I, therefore, quickly followed my first question with the inquiry
if he thought he might yet get some daylight into my right eye. "When?" he questioned. And,
still clinging to the hope that I was not to be forever in the dark, I replied, "In five, ten,
fifteen, twenty-five years; any time, so long as I get some light." In answer, he merely patted
me on the shoulder, saying: "Never mind, things are not always quite so bad as they look."
Then he moved away from my cot, and a moment later I heard him talking in undertones to another
officer. This officer, whom he now brought to my bedside, proved to be Captain Towse, the bravest
man it has ever been my privilege to meet, and while I was up the line I met many brave men
who, where duty called, counted life not at a pin's fee.

Captain Towse is a double V.C. It is hard enough to get the Cross itself, and there are few
men who dare even to dream of a bar to it. I was now in personal touch with a man who, in distant
Africa, during the Great Boer War, with both eyes shot away, had gallantly stood firm, urging
his men to the charge. He came to my bedside with a cheery: "Good morning, Canada! How is the
boy this morning?" My answer was the usual one of the boys in France: "Jakealoo!" Then he pointedly
asked me a question that set me wondering at its purport.

"You are a soldier, are you not, Canada?"

I replied with a somewhat mournful: "Well, I was one time, but I can't say much as to the truth
of that now."

Then he hit me harder than any Hun shell could hit a man. He snapped out in a voice penetrating,
yet with a cheery ring to it: "Well, you are blind, and for life. How do you like it?"

For about five seconds (it was no longer) the night that sealed my eyes seemed to clutch my
soul. I was for the moment "down and out"; but I braced my spirits in the presence of this
dominating man. I would show him how a Canadian soldier could bear misfortune. So I gathered
myself together as best I could under the circumstances; swore just a little to ease my nervous
strain, and replied: "That's a hell of a thing to tell a guy."

Then came words that rolled a mighty load from heart and brain. Captain Towse praised my soldierly
bearing under misfortune, and praise from this blind double V.C. meant much. He had been sorely
smitten at a time when there was no St. Dunstan's, no Sir Arthur Pearson, to make his blindness
into just a handicap, instead of what it nearly always was before the days of St. Dunstan's,
an unparalleled affliction. But Captain Towse beat blindness, and did it, for the most part, alone.

Now the cruel fact had to be faced; the only world I would see henceforth would be that conjured
up by the imagination from memories of the past. Then the difficulties of the future crowded
upon me. Even if I were not to see as other people do I should still have to eat; and dinners
do not grow by the roadside, and if they did I could not see to pick them up.

"Well, Jim," I said to myself, "you are in a fine fix; what are you going to do to get those
three square meals a day that you were accustomed to in civil life?" Then I began to wonder
what particular street and what street corner in old Toronto would be best suited for selling
matches, bootlaces, pencils, and postcards. While in this vein, I conjured up visions of cold,
grey days, days when customers did not appear, and imagined myself led home at night without
having enough to buy even a meal. My humour suggested strolling along the roadside singing
doleful songs. I even chose a song, "The Blind Boy," by the late W. G. Chirgwin, on which I
might try my voice.

All this passed through my mind while Captain Towse was still standing by my cot.

I was suddenly startled from my gruesome speculations by the captain asking me if I had made
up my mind to go to St. Dunstan's. I had to confess that I did not know the place, where it
was, or what it was for. Then he told me that he wished to take down some particulars regarding
me. He wanted to know my full name, regimental number, when I was hit, where I received my
wound, who was my next of kin, and many other particulars, all of which I, at that time, thought
a most unnecessary and foolish proceeding.

While the Captain was questioning me, I heard a rapid, clicking sound following each of my
answers. The noise fascinated me, and after a brief time I made bold to ask him what it was.
The answer fairly staggered me.

"It's a Braille machine," he replied. "I am writing down your answers."

I knew he was blind--blinder than any bat; and, in my ignorance, I asked him, in an irritated
voice, if he thought that it was fair to try "to kid" a man who had just been told that he
would never again have the use of his eyes. He uttered no word, but I had a feeling that a
smile was playing on his lips; and the next moment the machine he had been operating was placed
in my hands. He then began patiently to explain its use, and what a moment before had seemed
an utter impossibility I realized to be a fact. Although the blind could not see, they at least
had it in their power to put down their thoughts without the aid of a second party; and, not
only that, the world of knowledge was no longer a sealed book--they could read as well as write.
The eye had been accustomed to carry the printed word to the brain; now the finger tips could
take the place of eyes. I now recalled that I had seen a blind man sitting at a street corner,
running his fingers over the pages of a big book; but I had paid no heed to it, thinking it
merely a fake performance to gain sympathy from the public. I told this to Captain Towse, and
he replied kindly that I should soon learn much greater things about the blind. At St. Dunstan's,
he said, there were about three hundred men, all more or less sightless, making baskets, mats,
hammocks, nets, bags, and dozens of other useful articles, mending boots, doing carpentry,
learning the poultry business, fitting themselves for massage work, and, what seemed to me
most incredible, taking up stenography as an occupation.

Men--men who could not see as did other men, were doing these things; straightway, the old
street corner, the selling of matches and shoelaces, the street strolling singing in a cracked
voice while twanging some tuneless instrument, vanished. Other men had risen above this crowning
infirmity; why could not I. Boulogne and this meeting with Captain Towse had saved me. Gloom
vanished, for the moment at any rate, and my whole being was animated by a great resolve--the
resolve to win in the battle of life, even though I had to fight against fearful odds.

CHAPTER II

IN BLIGHTY

It was with a sense of relief that, shortly after this, I received word that I was to be sent
to England. To me, it was the promised land, in which I was to be fitted to take my place as
a useful, independent member of society. The trip to Dover was pleasant and exhilarating; the
run to London a bit tedious. But an incident that occurred on my arrival at Charing Cross Station
touched my heart as has nothing else in my life, and my misfortune seemed, for the moment,
almost a blessing; it taught me that hearts beat right and true, and that about me were men
and women eager to cheer me on as I played the game of life.

It was just one of London's flower-girls, one of the women who religiously meet the hospital
trains and shower on the wounded soldiers the flowers they have not sold--flowers, no doubt,
held back from sale in most cases for this charitable purpose. When the attendants were moving
me from the train and placing me on a stretcher, I was gently touched, and a large bunch of
roses placed in my hand. The act was accompanied by the words: "'Ere ye are, Tommy. These 'ere
roses will 'elp to liven things up a bit when yer gets in the 'ospital. Good luck to you, matey;
may yer soon get better." The voice was harsh and unmusical. Grammar and accent showed that
it had been trained in the slums; but the kindly act, the sympathetic words, touched my soul.

The act was much to me, but the flowers were nothing. In answer to the girl's good wishes,
I replied that I did not see as well as I used to, and that my power of enjoying the perfume
of flowers had also been taken from me; perhaps there were some other wounded boys who could
appreciate the beauty and scent of the flowers better than I could, and she had better put
them on one of their stretchers. But she left them with me, and, in a voice in which I could
detect a tear, said:--

"Well, matey, if yer can't see, yer can feel. Let's give yer a kiss."

I nodded assent, and then I received the first kiss from a woman's lips that I had had since
I left home--and then she passed away, but the memory of that kiss remains, and will remain
while life lasts.

I was now taken to St. George's Hospital, and from there to No. 2 London General Hospital (old
St. Mark's College), Chelsea. In this institution I met for the first time one of the geniuses
of the present age, a man who spent his life working not with clay or marble, or wood or metal,
but with human beings, taking the derelicts of life and moulding them into useful vessels--Sir
Arthur Pearson, a true miracle worker, a man who has given the equivalent of eyes to hundreds
of blind people, who has enabled many men who felt themselves down and out to face life's battle
bravely, teaching them to look upon their affliction as nothing more than a petty handicap.
A few years ago, as everyone knows, Sir Arthur was one of the leading journalists and publishers
in the British Empire, the true founder of Imperial journalism. At the summit of his career,
while still a comparatively young man, he was smitten with blindness. He would not let a thing
like that beat him; he conquered blindness, and set himself to help others to conquer it. He
soon became the leading spirit in the education of the blind in Great Britain, and, despite
his handicap, was elected President of the National Institute for the Blind, and was the guiding
star in many organizations established to aid the sightless. When war broke out his success
as an organizer, his power as a teacher, caused the authorities to choose him to look after
the blinded of the Army and Navy.

My meeting with Sir Arthur occurred in the following manner. The ward door was open--I knew
that by the gentle breeze that swept across my cot. Suddenly, from the direction of the door,
a cheery voice exclaimed: "Are any new men here? Where's Rawlinson?"

I answered: "Right here, sir! But who are you?"

"Well, Rawlinson, and how are you getting along? When do they figure on letting you get away
from here? You know, we are waiting for you at St. Dunstan's."

I knew then that the man standing by my cot was the famous Sir Arthur. I shook hands with him,
and thanked him for his kindly interest in asking about me. I offered him the chair that always
stands beside the hospital bed. He must have heard me moving some objects I had placed on it,
in order to have them within reach of my hands.

"Never mind the chair," he said. "Just sit up a bit; there is room enough on the bed for both
of us. Have you got a cigarette to give a fellow?"

I apologized, saying that I had only ---- ----, and that I didn't think he would care to smoke
them.

"Do you smoke them?" he questioned. "If they're good enough for you to smoke, they're good
enough for me."

That set me right at my ease. I was in the presence of a knight; but he was first and last
a man. Straight to the point he went. He never puts a man through that bugbear of the soldier,
a host of seemingly inconsequential questions; he has the particulars of each man who is likely
to come under his direction long before he visits him.

"Have you," he said, "made up your mind to join our happy band at St. Dunstan's. There's lots
of room up there for you, and we want you."

Just here I would remark that No. 2 General was a sort of preparatory school for St. Dunstan's.
The adjutant from one of the St. Dunstan's establishments, either the House, College, or Bungalow,
came to read the newspapers and talk with the men who were to study under him. So we had by
this means picked up much information about Sir Arthur, and knew the man even before meeting
him; but the being conjured up by our imagination fell far short of the real man. He did not
come to your bedside commiserating with you over your misfortune. He was totally unlike the
average visitor, whose one aim seemed to be to impress on you some appropriate--often most
inappropriate, considering your condition--text of scripture. Well, he was with me, and we
talked and smoked, the knight and the private soldier, both blind, but both completely ignoring
the fact. During our talk darkness seemed to vanish, and I saw a great light--the battle could
be won, and I would win it. After that conference, I knew full well that I should not be a
burden upon anybody, sightless though I was.

Up to this time my idea of a blind man was just what is or was that of the average sighted
person--a man groping his way about the streets or standing at some conspicuous corner with
a card hanging on his breast telling the world that he could not see; a cup to hold the coppers
that the sympathetic public would drop into it; and last, but not least, a faithful little
dog, his friend and guide. During the first days of my blindness I often wondered where I was
going to get a suitable pup.

While at No. 2 London General, preparation for my future work went on. As soon as I was able
to get out of bed, I was taken once each week to St. Dunstan's to talk with other men in residence
there--a species of initiation. While in hospital, too, as soon as we were able to work a little,
we were given the rudiments of Braille. This was not compulsory; and if we wished to yield
to fate and sit with hands idly folded we were at liberty to do so. But the majority of the
men were eager for occupation of any kind.

Lying in bed or sitting on a hospital chair, unable to see the objects about you, there is
a danger of deep depression being occasioned by melancholy brooding. To prevent this, the V.A.D.'s
who worked in the St. Dunstan's Ward saw to it that the men were not left too much to themselves,
and kindly attention kept me from becoming morbid while waiting for my exchange to St. Dunstan's.

As I was a Canadian, I had to go down to the Canadian Hospital to receive my final Board--just
a matter of that child of the devil, red-tape. August 13th saw me on my way to Regent's Park,
where St. Dunstan's is situated. My heart leaped within me; I was going to have first-hand
knowledge of the marvellous things about which I had heard. I was going to learn things that
would put me out of the stick, tin-cup, card-around-my-neck, and little-dog class. Thirteen
may be an unlucky number, but that 13th of August was, notwithstanding my blindness, the beginning
of the happiest year of my life since I left my mother's home.

On my way to St. Dunstan's, I journeyed from the Marble Arch to Orchard Street, then by bus
up Orchard Street, Upper Baker and Baker Streets, right past Marylebone, on the right of which
stands Madame Tussaud's famous Wax-Works, and on to Baker Street tube. Just past the tube is
Clarence Gate, one of the entrances to Regent's Park. Entering the grounds, we followed the
park rails until we came to two white stone pillars. I have painful recollections of these
pillars. For the first two weeks after my arrival at St. Dunstan's I made their acquaintance
frequently, and in no pleasant manner. I was anxious to find my way about without assistance,
and those pillars always seemed to stand in my way. Head, shoulders, and shins all bumped into
them. They would meet me even if I walked in the broad roadway. And they were hard, very hard.
They were at first a pair of veritable ogres, but in the end I conquered them, and could walk
by them with a jaunty air, whistling a tune of defiance.

CHAPTER III

AT ST. DUNSTAN'S

When I arrived at St. Dunstan's, the place was practically deserted. The summer holidays were
on, and all the men were away, either at their homes in the British Isles or at one of the
annexes of St. Dunstan's. Sir Arthur sees to it that no man goes without his vacation. Torquay
and Brighton were within easy reach, and at these seaside resorts there were rest homes for
the St. Dunstan's men. Since that time, so greatly has the attendance increased, it has been
found necessary to open other vacation resorts. It is to these places that the sightless Colonials
go. When the boys got back, work began in earnest.

I have been speaking of St. Dunstan's; it is now fitting that I give a description of this
Mecca of the sightless, or, as we say, of those who do not see quite as well as other people.
A hostel for the training of those having defective sight suggests a barrack-like structure
with whitewashed walls, board forms for the accommodation of the students, and the rudest of
furniture. What need is there of the beautiful for those who are without eyes, or who have
eyes that see not? 

"And you have the durchgepruegelt Raugrafen?"

A satisfied smile hatred put around his mouth.

"They say yes, that's I have been was, "he said.

The old enemy of high school students said this in such a tone of
satisfaction that I have the facts could not be doubtful.

I had to laugh out loud. "So tell me that! How then did the story?"

"Well, Phil - you know, I am going with the lore?

"Have you ever agree with each other?"

"It's probably something like that," he said .-- "She is a appointable person, and after the
death of old aunt, she gets a little something.

"

I looked at him smiling. "Well, Christopher, she is otherwise not that bad, you might have As convincing
as usual hardly slammed!

"

He looked for a moment to himself. "I hardly know," he said, "we were in the Series, Lore and I
- it was only to please her that I was gone - as was the long pale
guy who has always figured on them while whispering with another had,
and wanted extra dance with her.

"

"Was he an outrageous against your lady?"

"Outrageous - His face is shameless enough!"

"And Lore?" I said, my friend hot-fixing.

"They would have liked with the handsome Cavalier dance? "

He pulled together the forehead wrinkles, and I saw a dark cloud over his eyes superimposed.

"I do not know," he said softly .-- "It was good that you the girl when you were play Latin dance
school the Notknecht liesset. "

He gave me his hand. "Good-bye, Philip," he said, "I'll send you the money, otherwise will
you probably do not get much to hear from me, but by years time,
God willing, I'm back here or at our home.

"

He was tried in vain .-- I myself in my interrupted work to deepen, a vague concern for the
future of Jugendgespielen had crept my heart. I knew only too well what should not betray his words,
that his fantasy of that girl was quite satisfied and that all forces capable of working towards
it head, his Living with the unite their.

Soon after, I went down into the apartment of my landlords, where I did my lunch had. It might
be something introduced early, because of the household had no one
to set; But in the next room, I met the little Naehterin, the lame
Marie ", which silently and alone under a cloud of white material
with the needle was busy .-- As I often in the company the two men
had seen their skill busied myself now, so I told her yesterday's
incident, in hopes to learn about the cause of the same details.

"I've come to see it!" she said, pinching the thin lips, is "the Carpenters otherwise probably
a real man, but against the girl he is to benevolently, and what he wanted with her at the ball
home! "

I asked for closer.

They conceded a game witnessed by a chair so that I can share .-- "You may know the little
house in the Pfaffengasse "she began, as I followed her hint was,"
the Old Forge, the aunt of the Lore, bought it years ago from the
horse rental next door; But the court behind it, because he needs
for his business but has large room, the seller reserve so that he
and his now in one go together, except in the middle of a Little piece
of turf can dry their laundry the old stuff and bleach, if it so rich
wants.

She is cousin to my late mother, and was confirmed, since I am I
often went out with her sewing.

"I think it was just before last year, Martini, I was just after noon on the Forging, for we
had a great Seidenwaesche together. On the way I meet the carpenter, who went back then to the
Lore. Together we speak a word and walks away, he calls I still laugh: "When closing time come
I'll help you and put the clamps!" I's says and the Lore, but she did not seem big to be careful.

"Late
afternoon as we were inside finished, we went to the line between the Aufzuscheren stilts
that are outside on the grass roundabout. Lore, the dress over her Half-boots tucked up, went
with the little wooden passage from one to another. The old man had put to sleep indoors in
her chair, and I - I'm the tallest not, and could you just not much help. "

And the story teller looked for her poor body gradezurichten happening.

"I had sat next to the laundry basket on a curbstone, and looked at it, still the stable of the
servant of a neighbor a gold fox .-- curried I have the horses like to know You, because my father
is a truck driver was .-- There was even a nice animal, and if it so threw the head out of
the shadows in the sun, shines like the hair metal, but to the fine leg work I knew very well
that none of the neighbors had Mietgaeulen .-- 'Who heard the horse? " I asked Lore, the wooden
podium just her close beside me on the last Pole had moved .-- 'The horse? " she said, adding
she stands on tiptoe and the line wraps around the wooden cross, 'which belongs to the foreign
students, and I do not know how he called. " - I looked up at her, but they are not turned his head
and wrapped still Continue with the leash. When I just wanted to be impatient, "said a voice
behind me: 'It is enough, Miss Ellie! "

"I can still see she lowers her arms and quickly pulls down the dress tucked up, and as I turn
my head, the pale distinguished student stands before me, and Lore, without a word to say,
jump down from her kick and stands next to me. - The young man is only sharp eyes and makes
the lore, as if he would have watching for nothing. That up! I thought, and began at random
a loud debate about in golden fox and's talking so long, I had to answer, and before I know it,
we were all three hinuebergetreten on the court. The horse shuffled his hooves and saw his Lord
with the intelligent eyes; Lore stood near, and right when she carried
the request to let the animal, they slide down her flat hand on the
mirror-like neck.

"He is meek, 'said the young gentleman, 'what do you mean, Miss Lore, sitting in your house
still hangs Saddle!' - you shook his head, but I heard it said the breath, and her eyes sparkled
neatly with pleasure. The count was probably the most well understood, for his signal was on the
saddle strapped on and created an easy check. Lore looked out as if you the eyes were bewitched.
But when the servant of her wooden podium to the rise hinstellte,
the young man threw it aside.

'Ugh but Johann! " he cried, and as if they could but by Of course, he took the young girl
under his arm. 'Join tight! " he said, held the other hand in front of her, as he looked up with
his piercing eyes to her.

And Lore, as you only need to always do as it wished, put her little feet in his hand. I saw well,
he hesitated, but it was only a moment, then he lifted it with a rapid Swing up.

"She looked confused and looked down as she sat up there, and settled patient have arranged the
bridle between the fingers of him. The fox shook his head and let out a loud whinny. His master
stroked him a few times over the silken caress Coat, then he put his hand on the saddle behind
Lore, with the other he took the bridle and led the horse slowly around the roundabout.

"I have to say it themselves, together they made a proud couple, and
it would have no thought of it as seen that the fine just a poor person
and a tailor Naehterin Daughter was.

"Soon it was not even her quickly enough. They threw a hand up, the horse began to trot, and the
young gentleman came back to the roundabout. But he made no eye of her, as the Horse ran as
he left the whip in his hand in circles around, as if it were done to him, so his eyes at the
girls flew to and fro, waving their black hair down to the feet, which protruded the top of the
saddle under the dress. Soon he called her, soon Fuchs its a short word across. The animal ran
faster and faster, pushed it, and whipped with his tail in the air. Lenore did not look out.
She sat only served as and smiled and looked at the young master, degree as if it were his eyes,
which on the Saddle clung.

"So it went for a while. When the Old herauskaeme, I thought. It would give an evil weather! But
she did not. As suddenly brandishing a flight pigeons with great clatter about supports the court,
and the fox, and makes a sentence.

I think the Lore tumbling down, but no, they still hung on the neck of the horse, only she
had become pale as death. 'Oho! Virginia! " cries the Lord, and he is right over there, the Lore
sees on his arms, she for a moment with the piercing eyes and then they can gently glide to the
ground .-- Marriage I still remember, go I hear the back door.

There is the old man! I think, but when I I turn back, the carpenter stands before me .--
If It's only the old woman was, I could not have altered, for so
much like the man looked petrified.

'Is it already closing time, Mr. Werner? " I call.

But he pays no attention. 'Good evening, Marie! " he says with all hoarse voice, and he choked
out neatly, as if he stuck the word in the throat would have to .-- 'Why do not we go inside?
" I say again. 'Thank you', he replies, 'you have there been society '-. And without looking at
the girl, or losing a syllable of it, He returns and walks through
the great doorway of the road.

"Lore, stood without moving, in addition to the snorting horses. 'What did the man?" asked
the Count 'It is a compatriot of mine, "she replied softly. 'It is Mr. Werner', I said, 'the first
workers in the great Moebelmagazin', for the mocking me angry Face, which the Lord had watched the
carpenter. "

The narrator had finished work and they got up and put together the materials. Next door in the living
room were those of the house together for lunch.

"What's become of it?" I asked yet.

"What came of it?" she repeated. "I have spoken for a while to and fro; at the end - so the carpenter
can not let her, and she, if its not just the head insane, is also
know very well what she has in him.

The beautiful elegant young men are yes now but once it has grown for them. "

We went to dinner. But the history of lame-Marie was difficult for me to the heart .-- Lore
and Christopher! I could not think the two people together.

Soon after Easter, a sudden illness of my mother had called me home.

Only in August, since I completely convalescent care of the rest with my father and the healing
power left up to the mild air lifts could, I went back to the university. When I went away, on
the vast lake cove near the town hardly the ice was gone, and now swept over Because of all the
full foliage of summer.

It was on the morning after my arrival, from my friend I had not yet spoken. I stood pensively
in the middle of my lonely Studentenstuebchens, the dried Inkwell on the desk and looked at me
uncomfortably dusty books, the semi- was unpacked suitcase on the floor it any better. But
the sun shone through the Windows and drew me out, and soon I was going, how I loved it when
a boy, with me alone in the shade of large elm avenue, which is a distance above the water leads
along the lakeshore.

As a dark vault of the immense trees standing over me, while on both sides on leaves and grasses
and in the windows of this everywhere hidden in the green Gartenhaeuser the bright morning sun sparkled,
and sometimes, where he was visible through the bushes met, even a flash of the sea my eyes
.-- I walked slowly, with the fresh air full Trains breathing, only single unknown people I met,
for the hour of strolling had not yet struck.

Gradually, however, stopped the gardens, instead of the Elms were
slim coming here Book, which stood to the side.

Only a short distance, and I went to a cool forest, ascends to the left, a hill, while I on
the other side through the trees could look down on the lake. In front of me from the thicket
sounded the silver notes of the finches and the call of the blackbird, interspersed with music
as I constantly hears the whisper the leaves and down below my feet, the hissing of the water.
I suddenly the memory of a dilapidated house that had to be here in the woods. Years ago,
as Sekundaner I was once with a similar student I was there I of the School had visited from. It was,
I learned then, from a speculative innkeeper been built, but the
first failed speculation and it had failed, the great train the guests
hinauszulocken in his loneliness.

He was forced to sell, and the new owner let currently scarce economic administered by a waiter.

I
remembered the long pale people very well, and also the one-story building, which lay between
the high book at about the half of the hill, now stood with clarity before my eyes. Among the small
Saeulenhalle, which occupied the center of the front had I enjoyed drinking my first glass of grog,
from here we were with a large hinged doors in a high gloomy room entered, looked out his
window back into the forest. I was overcome with a desire to visit the lonely place again, at
the same time a concern He may now disappeared or for me not to be found.

While I was indulging my thoughts, I noticed looking up a narrow footpath, to the left of the road
between the trees hinaufschlang.

I stood for a moment, so It was at that time was well, then I slowly climbed up the mountain.
After having some time I appear in front of me between the tribes, a gray slate roof, were
also gradually The capitals of a small Saeulenhalle and to each side of it, the upper part
of a Window visible. A few more steps and a wide stone staircase leads from the tree shadow
addition to a small level place.

There it lay before me, located in the forest, in the most peaceful sunshine. The time here seemed
little to have changed, as then, was the original reddish throw-off of the walls, where it does
not exfoliated from the earth, was obtained with green moss everywhere, and from the crevices
of the wooden Columns pushed his brown proliferating Schwammgewaechs;
even now was under the small Hall, a dark green bank on either side
of half-open hinged doors .-- I sat me on one of them and looked through
the gap of the woods down to the lake, where just a fishing boat in
the sunshine .-- vorueberglitt people seemed not dwell here on the
above, It did not move, nor behind me from the house I heard no sound,
only a forest bee buzzed past in rapid flight, and fluttered to the
Grasraendern the stone steps two dark Butterflies.

After a while I got up and went into the hall.

It seemed a grim almost as I had imagined, and the dense trees outside the window seemed to
their branches up over the roof too wide.

I banged my stick on a table, that it's high ceiling echoed, but no one came .-- To the left in an adjoining
room, where I looked into it, stood a lone pool table. But was opposite to the other side of
the room another door and I opened it and came to a small hallway and through this again outside
.-- In addition to a bowling alley, which was close to home, I found an even older people, with
a green apron done sleeping on the lawn.

In fact, it seemed the same waiter even at that time - when I touched him with his stick, he tore
his eyes on and jumped up. "Please, sir," he said, "I have had little rest the night."

I looked at him in surprise.

"You know that?" he continued, as he eyed me from head to feet.

"The gentlemen Corps boys have indeed moved since their Easter Kneip evening here. "

I knew it not, in fact, although most of my friends on this compound belonged.

While I was a pitcher of beer and a slice of bread ordered, we had
gone back into the hall .-- As the days slip through the open door
fell, were in the middle of the floor a few dark spots are visible
that I left no doubt that not only the pub nights, but An adjacent
the "Pauker estates" were laid in this solitude .-- "Why do you manage
because the blood does not go away?

"I asked.

"To apologize, sir," replied the waiter pale, "but the stain keeps
coming back; It is a time when the accident happened here .-- It looked
at evil, when the heated young man at one time was so still and white.

"

I immediately remembered that incident, which a poor officer's widow her only Son had cost.
It was done soon after I left and had a short time the Participation
of the entire small country called.

I went out into the hall and sat down on one of the green benches, the poor hot blooded Thinking of
boys, whose life had left behind the last track.

After a while the waiter brought the ordered breakfast. "This evening you could what Have better, "he
said, by asking pitcher and plate in front of me on the table." We have Ball, because the principal
always sends out his cook.

"Ball?" I asked, surprised. "Who is dancing here since the middle of the forest?"

"Well," he replied, looking almost a little disrespectful to my not-too-modern
Clothing, "the chief gentlemen have the students set up."

I suddenly remembered a passage from the letter of a friend, I found during my Stay had been
given at home. "The Sentinel, we call it, and it's great !

Enough ago "These were the words I knew now what it was;.

I had only Place forget.

The waiter seemed the way, those names do not just listen to you.

While I was still to screw it was looking for were two young, I came
up a little-known students of the mountain.

They threw themselves, without taking notice of me, on the other side of the door to the bank, while
In sharp words and accented with a grim facial expression of each a pint Ordered beer. Then, while
the waiter went away, came in broken sentences, sometimes interrupted
by howling and loud yawn, a conversation about the upcoming Tanzfestlichkeit
in response to the one that appears to be a "fox" by latest date,
first by his somewhat older fellow should know.

One after another, the dancers were in a concise, not just the most delicate portrayal had
shown, preceded the daughters of an angular dance master trunkanfaelligen
and a policeman was justified with the help of the Institute, in its
Wake a number of friends and orphaned girls who during the day with
their Hands work, earned a meager bread.

However, I ate my breakfast in silence and sometimes a fed finches,
the fearless next to me on the tiles around to it and ran aufpickte
thrown crumbs.

"The countess you shall see the first!" began the elder of my two
neighbors again by He turned his small mustache.

The other did a
puzzled question.

His friend laughed: "It's just a Naehterin, Ludwig,
but if it so cold up with their black eyes look - it is doomed from
the top down. "

"But why do you call it because the countess?"

"Well,
you see - the Raugraf she has."

I do not know why I was startled
at these words. Already I wanted to further explore move in with the
young swaggerers, when I remembered that I am at my departure, the
lame Marie had seen in the back room of my landlady.

I went immediately
to walk back, and half an hour later I was standing next to her and
had a conversation with her angeknuepft.

"And you have not seen for
a long Lenore?" I asked.

She was silent a moment. "I do not go with
her," she said, by their Work looked.

"They seemed usually so good
friends!" Shortly
before noon some one entered the room and exclaimed jubilantly that a vast flock of aeroplanes,
estimated at from thirty to sixty, were manoeuvring at a great height in battle formation over
the city, and we were congratulating ourselves that the War Office had at length aroused itself
and was demonstrating its ability to cope with any attack by heavier-than-air machines that
the enemy might send over. As we listened to the news and longed for our eyes that we might
have a sight of this spectacle, the thunderous report of a bursting bomb undeceived us. These
planes were not marked with the friendly tricoloured circles, but with the ominous cross. There
were cries of terror, a hurrying of feet, a near panic as bomb succeeded bomb. Many of us had
been disciplined to war conditions, had dodged bombs at the Somme and Vimy Ridge, dodged them
when shrapnel was spraying about us and machine-gun and rifle bullets made the air hiss on
every side; but this attack in the heart of a great city was not without its terrifying aspect.
After having escaped death on the battle-field, it would be horrible to have to meet it in
the tumbling ruins of a crushed building. But we faced the situation stoically. London and
its suburbs had over 7,000,000 people, and, by the theory of chances, we concluded that we
were not likely to be hit.

This was the first Hun aeroplane success over London, the only one in which he accomplished
anything of value from a military point of view, one bomb knocking a corner off the General
Post Office, St. Martin's in the Field, and almost disrupting the whole of the telegraph system
that was carrying messages to and from military headquarters. There was, of course, the usual
slaughter of defenceless women and children, deeds that the Hun hoped would terrorize England,
lower the moral of her people, and keep a large army within the island for home defence. How
little he knew the British race! The deplorable thing in connection with the raid was that
while it was in progress there was not a single machine in the air combatting the attackers,
and not an anti-aircraft gun in action. The War Office needed to be roused from its slumbers.
It was; and when the next raiders came over they had a warm reception.

My next experience was in the open. One day I was walking through London's streets when the
approach of a raiding force was announced. Shelters were by this time provided for the citizens,
and to one of these underground bomb-proof spots, a tube, I made my way. At this time, London
was largely a city of women and foreigners--at least so it seemed to me. I had evidently hit
upon a shelter of a most cosmopolitan character. The place was packed with a frightened mob,
trembling and groaning with terror, and expressing their fears in many tongues utterly unknown
to me. The air was stifling with that distinctive odour that seems to emanate from the great
unwashed; in this case garlic seemed to be the prevailing perfume. It was a mixed crowd, however,
and women in silks rubbed shoulders with women in tattered gowns, all moved by the one thought--self-preservation.
Most of them, I judged by their cries and gasps, were almost insane with terror. But there
were heroines among them. Two women near me were holding an animated conversation.

"Say," said one, "ain't it time that this war wuz over? Why don't they stop? I haven't been
in bed to stay for over six nights, and I'm getting tired of it all."

The answer told the real spirit of the average British woman, a spirit that was doing much
to win the war.

"Liza," replied the first speaker's companion, in a somewhat indignant voice, "Bill's over
there, ain't 'e? 'E's tryin' to stop that ---- blighter from treatin' us like 'e did the women
of Belgium and France. 'E's gettin' this every day, and still smiles and sticks it. Yer can't
git me to say stop it. Carry on is my motter till the ---- Hun is slugged out of existence."

This rough, humble Cockney woman displayed the same spirit that was being shown by the Women's
Army Auxiliary Corps in France. The girls of this corps took it upon themselves to do the work
that was being done by men who thought themselves permanently installed in bomb-proof jobs.
What is more, they did it well. Take this one instance. During the German drive of 1918, some
of these girls were working in canteens a short distance behind the front line. As the Germans
swept forward with irresistible might, and had almost reached the camps and billets where the
W.A.A.C.'s were, the girls were ordered to leave the danger zone in motor lorries. They refused,
saying: "Those waggons can be used to carry wounded men back; we can walk." And walk they did;
slinging their packs on their backs and marching nineteen miles over rough, muddy roads. But
not all of them; some of the boldest stayed behind to see that the boys got hot tea or coffee
to revive their tired, in most cases, wounded and broken bodies. Their courage brought them
under shell-fire; but they carried on dauntlessly. During my last days in London, when I was
singing at one of their hostels, I met four of these women, each of whom had lost a leg, and
one was proudly wearing a Military Medal.

The woman of the tube and the refined W.A.A.C.'s were "sisters under the skin." Had the former
had her way, she would have been at Bill's side, handing him cartridges while he potted the enemy.

While I was at the Bungalow, we had a somewhat thrilling experience from air raids. In September,
1917, the raiders were exceptionally bold, and during the first ten days of the month visited
London no fewer than eight times. Night after night we were roused by the whistling of sirens
and the bursting of maroons, thin shells that made a big noise, warning all that an air raid
was in progress, and giving pedestrians and others a chance to take shelter from enemy bombs
and the shrapnel of the anti-aircraft guns, the latter even a greater menace to those in the
open than the former. On one of these nights I, with two Canadian chums, sightless like myself,
had just entered the Bungalow when the maroons began to explode and the whistles to shriek.
Bed was out of the question. Besides, the matron, Mrs. Craven, would be up on the instant to
look after her boys. True to form, the matron appeared, and we drew up one of the Davenports
in front of a cheerful grate fire.

"Are all you boys feeling right?" asked the matron.

Before we had time to answer, the anti-aircraft guns opened up their barrage. They seemed to
be shooting right over the Bungalow, for pieces of shrapnel clattered on the roof like great
hailstones. One piece, about a pound in weight, smashed through the roof and into the matron's
room. As we sat there, overhead we could hear the angry droning of the Hun planes and the whistling
rush of the dropping bombs, each moment expecting one to crash among us. A bomb that dropped
near by, in St. John's Wood, sounded as it if were going to pay us a visit, and I nervously
remarked: "This one is ours, Matron!"

"Well, Rawlinson," she replied, without a quiver in her voice, "we are still soldiers, you
know, and if it comes, what better could we ask than a soldier's death."

That night four bombs dropped in the grounds within a radius of four hundred yards, but fortunately
none of them did any material damage.

On another night we were being entertained at one of the delightful concerts arranged for us
by the staff. The concert was at its height when the guns opened up. Our entertainers suggested
stopping the performance, but we objected to having such a trifling matter as an air raid interfere
with our fun, and the concert went merrily on, and before it was over the Huns were beating
it for home, chased by daring British aviators.

On several occasions the raiders hove in sight after the inmates of the Bungalow were all in
bed. But Sir Arthur had seen to it that we should be warned in time, so that in case we received
a direct hit we should not be caught like rats in a trap. News of the approaching raiders was
sent in by the telephone simultaneously with its receipt by the police authorities, and one
of the orderlies on watch visited the rooms and roused the men, instructing any who so wished
to take refuge in the shrapnel-proof cellars over at the House. Needless to say, none of the
boys rushed for shelter--not from our ward, at any rate. We either got up and dressed to enjoy
the thrill of listening to the droning planes, bursting bombs, and clattering shrapnel, or
lay in bed, quietly taking the whole matter with philosophical indifference. The danger signal
came as soon as the raiders crossed the East Coast, and then all was hubbub and excitement
in London until the "all clear" was sounded by that gallant little--little in body, but big
in heart--band of boys known as the Boy Scouts, who were posted at every police station.

No doubt many of us felt a bit "windy" during these raids, but in the presence of the other
fellow we would not show it. Our buildings and grounds, right in the heart of London, were
most conspicuous; and, besides, Regent's Park was not without its military importance, for
in it were kept the aerodrome stores. Its lake and the canal which runs between it and the
Zoo, made it a shining mark for the Hun bombers. But we stood our ground fearlessly through
all these raids, listening to the din of this aerial warfare, awed not so much by the explosions
as by the bedlam created in the Zoo, where, as soon as a raid was on, the lions roared, elephants
madly trumpeted, monkeys chattered, parrots shrieked, and wolves howled dismally.

CHAPTER VII

ROYAL VISITORS

St. Dunstan's was frequently visited by British aristocracy, but, by all odds, the most interesting
visitors were members of the Royal Family. His Majesty, King George, dropped in on more than
one occasion, just like an ordinary citizen, without the usual frills and pageantry that accompany
Royalty. In his visit to St. Dunstan's he went through the place without even an equerry in
attendance. He showed a deep and sincere interest in the training and work of the men. He seemed
to be a little sceptical about our ability as poultry-raisers. On one occasion, when visiting
the poultry-house while a class was being instructed, he signified that he would like a practical
test of the power of the blind to distinguish different breeds of fowls. The attendant caught
a bird and handed it to one of the students, an Imperial officer, by the way, and scarcely
had he touched it before he correctly pronounced it a Plymouth Rock. The King was still sceptical,
and a second and third bird were handed the demonstrator, and the birds were properly named.
This convinced His Majesty that, though blind, the men could "carry on" in what seemed to him
an incredibly difficult occupation for the sightless. How do you know that it is called Lore? "

"We are from a town, and I danced my first dance school in the mazurka
with her."

"So - you want to dance now with happy students."

Our conversation about Lore was over, but I knew now why Chris did not have like talking about.

However,
I saw him later in the course of the winter several times in public
places with Lore, mostly in the company of Marie lame or elderly person
who no one else could be as the rich aunt to the poor tailor still
so close to its end, the jewel his heart had been kidnapped.

One evening, it might be a few weeks after the New Year, I heard from my room one Tumult on the
road.

When I opened the window, I noticed in the passing Heaps here and
there red Studentenmuetzen at last I saw the light of a street lamp
also our beadles.

"What is it, can?" I called down.

"Wood gave, sir." - From a box called me just us two well-known fact all time, Doctor.

"So? And probably back to the ballroom?" I asked.

"Well, where do otherwise?"

The ballroom was a public dance hall, where, the ancient enmity between to make students and
craftsmen are used to air at times.

It seemed this time, however, become bad to be, because tin was an extremely strong hint of movement
the fist.

"Who has he got?" I asked yet.

The old man held his hand over her mouth and whispered to me: "It has come to the right place . Doctor,
"A friend who heard our conversation, called the temporary:" It is the Raugraf, the nodes have paid
him to discount ".
The so-called "Raugraf" was just as nice as desert young man in the
lecture halls Professors rare, but often on the scale and to regularly
visit the pub was, one of those that play a role in universities,
then in later life to disappear without a trace. Of the young artisans,
whom he did alienate their girls, he was hated as much as it for the
greater number of younger students of the subject was a shy admiration.
After he visited a number of other universities and, in some cases
had forced relegation, disembarked, he thought fit to try ours, and
soon went on his big change and then by an even bigger debts most
varied rumors in vogue.
She then asked me if I were out for a walk. "No," I replied, "I'm going to meet another queen.
Two queens in one afternoon is not bad going for an old Canuck, is it?" "It certainly is not,"
she replied. "And I do hope," she added with a merry laugh, "that the other queen will not
forget to shake hands when she meets you."

As I went away I heard her remark that that is "a very cheerful boy; his blindness does not
seem to trouble him much." She was right. It did not by this time. I had so far progressed
with my work that the future was assured; work and happiness I could still find in this old world.

While at St. Dunstan's I had still another meeting with Royalty. One day I was walking up the
Lounge, along the strip sacred to the sightless, when bump I went against someone who was stooping
over while questioning another student. I had collided with a woman, who immediately turned
and apologized most profusely for being in my way. She was most sorry that she "did not see
me coming." I was in an irritated mood; the sightless always are under such circumstances.
A collision of this sort always reminds them of their handicap, a thing they delight to ignore.
Impatiently, I replied: "That's all right, ma'am. But if you people with eyes, when you visit
us, would only remember that there are some men here that cannot see just as well as they once
did, it would make it easier for us." Again she apologized, and took my hand, giving it such
a hearty, sympathetic pressure that I felt somewhat ashamed of myself for my hasty words. As
I renewed my walk up the Lounge, one of the V.A.D.'s overtook me, and asked what had happened.
I told her, and she almost took my breath away by telling me that I had been "saucing" Her
Most Gracious Majesty, Queen Alexandra. I quite expected to be "on the carpet" before the chief
for my words, for Sir Arthur was standing by, and must have heard them. But Sir Arthur had
a way of avoiding causing his boys the slightest pain, and he no doubt knew that when I realized
to whom I had spoken so hastily, my chagrin would be sufficient punishment. I hope the good
Queen has forgiven my lack of courtesy, and forgotten the incident--a thing I am not likely to do.

CHAPTER VIII

IN PLAYTIME

It was not all work at St. Dunstan's. Sports were encouraged and fostered in every way; but
rowing and tug-of-war were by far the most popular. Fully sixty per cent. of the men went in
for rowing, and some very skilful and powerful oarsmen were turned out. There were two regattas
each year. The preliminary heats of each regatta were pulled off on the lake that runs into
the grounds of the House, and the finals took place on the River Thames. Single sculls, pair-oars,
and fours were our strong points. The Bungalow turned out two men who had no superiors on the
river either sighted or sightless. Sergeant Barry, at one time the world's champion sculler,
coached the team during the seasons of 1917 and 1918. So successful were the Canadians that
there are now a number of St. Dunstan's rowing prizes in Canada.

The tug-of-war team, of which I was a member, was quite as successful as the oarsmen. Indeed,
we lost only one point during the whole season. We treated all comers alike: they were there
to be pulled over; and we saw to it that they came. The following was our war song; we sang
it going to the grounds, and we sang it coming away.

   The Canucks are on the rope, on the rope, on the rope;
   Their breasts are full of hope, full of hope, full of hope;
   They tell the teams they pull against
   That they're out to win the cup.
   Canadians do your bit, do your bit, show your grit;
   Lay back on that rope, legs well braced; never sit.
   Make your snow-clad country proud
   Of her boys who are on the line.

   Chorus--

   Take the strain, take the strain;
   First a heave, then a pull, then again.
   The boys are pulling, the boys are pulling;
   Yes, they're pulling with might and main.
   Take the strain, take the strain;
   First a heave, then a pull, then again.
   They'll come over; they'll come over;
   For the timber wolves are winning once again.

Not a very elaborate piece of poetry, and sadly deficient in metre and rhyme; but it certainly
did mean much to us when we heard our supporters singing it. We sang it to the tune of "Over
there." Out of justice to my comrades, I must plead guilty of composing it.

The average weight of the team was only 145lbs., but what the men lacked in weight was made
up in grit. 

It was late gradually. When we returned from our look around, we found the Girls gathered outside
the front door and Anne Lene among them.

Two of them had their hands caught when they could only with tender violence here be detained.
"Yes, if we would have music!" said one .-- "music!" Peters said, as he put on his thick Goldberlocken
his Clock of the bag.

"You will soon have music; in half an hour I'm back! "

He had come on horseback, and called you into the house after the Hofmann. "Bring me the brown,
Marten;! But need your legs "The old man muttered something to himself, but he did but how
he was told, and soon Peters galloped away to the gate.

The rest of us went into the house and visited above the dance hall. We came to meet a sullen
air, as we the door the old state room had opened.

The goldgebluemten tapestries were solved by the moisture and hung partially torn on the walls,
everywhere still stood out the places where the ancient times Familienportraete had hung. We went
down again and carried a table and some in Gartenbaenke the empty room, then we opened the windows
through which it out of the standing Hereinzudunkeln trees started already, and the girls covered
up and danced together. "Wait!" I cried, "we want to make a chandelier!"

For the top saw on the ceiling I was still the staple, at once the crystal crown hung over the
banquet table of the House had. Soon, two strips of wood were found and nailed upon the other
crosswise.

Anne Lene went with the girl into the garden, and out of the window, I saw them the Flowers of
the Jasminbueschen and the red blooming Himbeerstraeuchen broke. "Pluck only, "said Anne Lene,
as one of the girls looked around quizzically at her," it is blooming here yet . Is an island "But
she stood by herself, she picked nothing came .-- After a while all back up and set about my chandelier
after another one with white and bewinden to red flowers, and then, having secured at each end
of a candle and lighted was the work of art was hung. The few lights could not elucidate the wide
space; But outside was already up and the moon shone through the
window and it was graceful, as the flowers light hovered in the middle
of the deserted rooms and how the fragrance was aroused when danced
by the girls below.

Suddenly we heard a horse and a loud auftraben Crack of the whip.

"Here comes the music!" it was said, and all crowded to the windows
.--, outside under the trees Peters held, a small thin figure stuck
behind him on the horse, violin and bow in the hand.

Look a bit closer I knew well that it was the old Drees-Schneider, a lot of dexterous Males, which
soon provided for the needle, sometimes with the fiddle bow of his maintenance, and to the hard
times had taught to put up with some rude fun .-- "Well, Drees, playing on one, "said Peters."
Do your compliments to the ladies! "But the old man and the Left hand from the saddle and
rested his violin under his chin and touched the horse with the Peters Spores that it turned down,
and the old man hesitated and reached back quickly after the saddle.

Anne Lene stood before me, I saw in the dim light, like the redness of her in the temple went up.

"Drees,"
I cried, "Come down, Drees" - The old man made hinabzuklimmen Institute, but the rider laughed
and gave his horse the spurs. "Marten," said Anne Lene to Hofmann, consider "the ! Horse, Marten
!"--" Oho, Anne Lene "said Peters, but he made no attempt yet, his
continue jokes, and let it happen that Martin helped guide the old
Drees.

A moment later all were up in the hall, and after Peter the older musicians his fear was paid for
by a few glasses of wine, put this on a small drum and began aufzustreichen his pieces. The pairs
competed, and soon our flower light by the vertebrate The dancers' moves back and forth. I was
looking for Anne Lene, but she had gone unnoticed be, and as for
me no dancer was uebriggeblieben, I also left the room, in the belief
that they found at the bottom of the old courtiers.

When I went into the servants' room, I saw, however, only the old Wiebe, who eagerly at their Knitting
worked. She pulled a needle out of the bib and disturbed that in
the lamp, the rather large room lit up very poorly. Then she looked
up at me and said, "You are so powerful, funny, Marx! Claus Peters
played well already in Staatshof the Lord? " We had even a four-oared Canadian crew--all blind,
and as they skimmed over the lake, rowing in perfect time, an observer would have difficulty
in detecting that they were sightless.

CHAPTER IX

MEMORIES OF THE FIGHTING FRONT

During my early days at St. Dunstan's, I was inclined to brood a bit, and the past was constantly
before my mind's eye; but gradually under occupation the past became shadowy, and the future
was for me the only reality. Even the scenes through which I had passed in the months I was
at the front took on the semblance of a dream--sometimes a nightmare; but it seemed to me that
it was not I--the St. Dunstan's student--who had endured cold and wet and forced marches, who
had felt the shock of high-explosive shells, the stinging threat of machine-gun and rifle bullets,
who had taken part in wild charges over the top, but some other being. However, in the stillness
of the night, one incident I had experienced, one scene I had witnessed, kept constantly recurring
to my mind with a vividness that kept the World War and my humble part in it a stern reality
for me. The affair in question occurred on April 19th, 1917.

Ten days before, on Easter Monday--a red-letter day for the Canadians, but a day black as night
for the Germans--the troops from the Dominion had in one swift forward movement swept the enemy
from positions which he had thought impregnable along Vimy Ridge. For days after that, we wallowed
around in the mud, gaining a village here, a trench there, and driving him from hills and wood
fastnesses. All the time we were expecting that he would come back in force to make a mighty
effort to regain the territory he had held for over two years against the British and the French.
He had apparently proved his right to it, and since September 15th, 1916, had been resting
at his ease in his underground dug-outs and capacious caverns.

On the night of the 19th, the battalion to which I belonged had just ended a tour of duty in
the front line. We were to be relieved by another battalion of the 3rd Division of the Canadian
Corps. There was but one road out, a road which at that time was considered a masterpiece of
road-building. Three days had been allotted for its construction. The Imperial engineers contended
that the task was an impossible one, but G.H.Q. said it would have to be done, and the Canadian
engineers were assigned the work. To their credit, it was completed in the stipulated time.

To retire from the side of the ridge facing the German position, it was necessary to take this
road, and, as the crest of it was under almost continuous shell-fire, for safety we were sent
over in sections of ten men at a time. This territory had all been in Fritzie's hands, and
he knew every inch of it. The road was a vital spot, and more shells were dropped on it than
upon any other place of the same area on the Western front. On the top, about two hundred yards
away, lay the ruined village of Thelus; once in it we should be comparatively safe.

I was in the last section of my platoon, and at the top I paused to look about me at the scene
that presented itself. It was horrible; it was glorious; it was magnificent--it was War. The
centre of the road was fairly clear, but at the edges all was chaos. The night was a wonderful
one; the moon was shining in all her glory, and pale stars twinkled in the sky. In the bright
moonlight I could see all about me dead and wounded men, wounded men who would surely "go West,"
for, once down, the chance of escape from that hell-hole was slight. Here and there were great
W.D. waggons, G.S. waggons, ammunition mules bearing 6-inch howitzer and the smaller 18-pounder
equipment--in fact, everything that was in any way connected with the grim business that was
being carried on. Here and there, too, through this chaos of war, ration parties wended their
way to and from the front line trenches.

Just as we reached the crest of the ridge, that spur of France that had taken such heavy toll
from Hun and Ally, we heard a warning shout: "Keep to the edge of the road!" We wondered at
the caution. The middle of the road was comparatively clean, while towards the edges it was
ankle-deep in sticky mud, and we had been floundering around in a quagmire for the last eleven
days. But we soon knew the reason; for while we hesitated up came a battery of guns at full
gallop--big howitzers at that. Drivers shouted; horses plunged and tugged at their traces;
the guns bounded and rattled in and out of the shell-holes that pitted the road, sometimes
seeming to be balanced on only one wheel. It was a thrilling sight, such as comes to the eyes
of a man only once in a lifetime. It gripped us all. Poor Sergeant Harry Best, our platoon
sergeant, who was near me, relieved the tension by exclaiming: "Get that, Jim! You will never
see such a sight again, even if you stayed out here for fifty years. If a painter were to put
that sight on canvas he would be laughed at as a dreamer."

I said, poor Sergeant Best! He had seen the sight of his lifetime, but he was not long to enjoy
it, for the next trip in, when he was all ready to go to London to take his commission, he
was "sent West" by a bomb from a trench mortar. Harry was a little strict, but he was dead
fair, and, best of all, a thorough soldier. How is it that nearly all the good ones get, or
seem to get, the worst of the deal; they certainly play for the most part in hard luck. But
then they take risks that the "safety-first" soldier never takes.

CHAPTER X

THE POINT OF VIEW OF THE SIGHTLESS

When I began to write this personal narrative I had two main thoughts in mind. My first was
that no work written on the World War would be complete without some account of the transference
of the soldier back from khaki to mufti; my second, and to my mind the more important, was
to show the man himself, suffering from a serious handicap, that one of the greatest truths
in this life of ours is: there is nothing that a man cannot do, if he has to. This needs explanation.
There are few men who have come out of this war just as they went into it. Even rich, and not behind German
standing back, the Japanese fairy world from which I choose here have compiled and edited
for the German youth.

This is to my knowledge the first work from the rich treasure of Japan of the German fairy tale
Youth a carefully chosen selection offers, may also be one or the other here and there once
published somewhere and thus be known, it is still mostly scattered in newspapers, magazines or
scientific work in a literal translation and is only suitable for
adults.

None of those publications has been used by me or has served me as a template but only the
Japanese editions and oral narratives of the Japanese and therefore
contains Present the many fables and the like, which live only in
the mouths of the people, of which So there are no traces in the literature
itself.

Since this book is dedicated to the youth of Germany, had the largest selection and processing
be spent on care and altered many passages omitted or replaced by other, to adapt the whole understanding
of youth, even more so than the originals often lead-free language
so that they, according to our German morality, not anyone can give
in the hand.

Accompanied by explanatory notes, historical data, and so should
this book provides an win over the framework of simple fairy tale
reading beyond value. A "sissy"
came down the steps of the dug-out, mopping his forehead with a handkerchief;--fancy any one
carrying a handkerchief in the front line; one had essentials enough to carry without being
burdened with such a feminine article;--another of the boys was sitting writing a letter with
his ground-sheet under him in the mud. The sissified one blurted out: "Holy gee! but I'm perspiring
profusely." The kid writing the letter looked up and sarcastically answered, "Wouldn't sweatin'
like 'ell be more to the point." Later in my military career I had a chat with the commander
of the company to which the "sissy" belonged, and he incidentally remarked that the lad had
turned out to be one of the most reliable and plucky fellows in the battalion. I have often
wondered since if that little remark "sweatin' like hell" had not helped him to buck up and
fit into his general surroundings.

Since I have been sightless, two things have deeply impressed themselves on my mind. The first
is that no person with sight can, or ever will be able to, see from a blind man's point of
view; the second, that no one who can see can ever understand or gauge a blind man's capabilities
or limitations. When I speak of a blind man in this sketch, I, of course, refer to those who
have suddenly been deprived of sight. Of the man who was born blind or who became sightless
early in life I do not profess to know anything. But the viewpoint of the blind is, in the
majority of cases, different from that of the sighted--I mean in the matter of earning one's
living and making oneself independent of charity. The man who has been blinded in battle has
seen life--and death for that matter--stripped of all its frills and flounces. His mind and
viewpoint have been enlarged and broadened by his life in the Army. But he sees life from an
angle that is denied the sighted. To be made into a wage-earner he must be handled rightly. But I'm afraid, not my cash goes for the journey,
and fencing, that is not my thing. "

I had already gone to my desk and had a small amount of money counted
on the table.

"Is this enough, Christopher?"

"Thank you, Philip."

He carefully put the money in his purse, which already have a little
treasure in the gold and silver coins contained. Only now I saw that
in his black Sunday clothes stood before me.

"But you're masturbating
in full," I asked, "Where have you been?" For the attainment of this end, two things are necessary--confidence and independence.
Once he has learned these, he has won half his battle--a hard battle, how hard he alone realizes.
For my own part, my first two months of blindness, at least, were Hell with a capital H. Let
me illustrate what I mean by confidence and independence.

Whilst at St. Dunstan's, I was, for some reason or other, given the job on quite a few occasions
of meeting men who were feeling rather harder than was thought necessary the darkness that
enveloped them. If a man came in feeling that there was nothing in life for him now that he
was blind, I was given the task of cheering him up and showing him, if I could--and I have
the satisfaction of knowing that I did not often fail--that this old world was not such a bad
place, even if one's lights were put out. One case stands out with prominence, and when I look
back at the results of my work after twelve months have passed, it is not without a measure
of pride.

One Saturday afternoon, a young Canadian came to the Bungalow. He was talked to by both the
Adjutant and the Matron, who did all in their power to "buck" him up. They failed hopelessly,
as the "kid" felt too far gone; he just would not try to look at the bright side of life. Then
some one suggested that he be brought over to "Rawly." When we met, I began our conversation
with: "Well, kid, how are things?" He snapped back: "For God's sake, another preacher!" It
was somewhat of a staggerer, but I had been through it all myself, and understood the boy's
feelings perfectly. In the darkness that sealed his eyes he was forced to grope his way about
stumblingly, usually with the help of a guide. He had not yet gained confidence in his own
powers. I straightway determined to inspire him with that confidence.

In the first days of my sojourn at St. Dunstan's, I, for a time, felt that never again should
I be able to step out into the world except with halting step and a horror of what might happen.
The management of the institution had constructed an elaborate system of gravel paths, along
which were wooden palings which would prevent the students losing their way. A knob in these
palings told of a turning; a plank served to warn that we were approaching steps or a steep
incline. In the work-rooms and through out the entire buildings, strips of carpet served as
a guide to the feet. But it took time to gain confidence even with these aids; and then they
were confined to the buildings and grounds. Confidence would only come when one was able to
navigate his way alone through busy thoroughfares. Shortly after entering St. Dunstan's I determined
to venture out alone. A guide accompanied me on my outward journey, but I dismissed him and
determined to find my way back without help. I cautiously kept to the outside of the walk,
using my stick as a guide, but I had not calculated on obstructing posts; bump I went into
one, but nothing daunted, I kept on. I was about to test the hardness of another with my head
when a sympathetic soul seized me by the arm and saved me just in time. I asked him to direct
me to the wall bordering the walk. He did so; but I had not taken into consideration the fact
that there were stores with goods out for display in front of them. I was first made aware
of this by hitting a somewhat flimsily-constructed fruit stand. At this moment a motorcycle
a few feet away back-fired viciously. It sounded like the explosion of a shell. Vimy and its
horrors came back on the instant, and I involuntarily ducked for safety, or, rather, sprawled
forward at full length. Down came the fruit stand, and there I lay among apples, oranges, and
bananas. Kindly hands helped me to my feet, and set me on my way. My first experience of solitary
walking out had been a rough one, and for a time I felt beaten, and had very much the attitude
of this boy towards the future. But my experiences would help him. I had conquered in time,
and could journey about freely without even the aid of a stick. I would not let him know that
I was "black" blind, but I would take him out with me and show him what the blind could do
unaided if they would only bring into play their latent powers.

We chatted for a time about the war, and the prospect of his return to Canada and his friends. "Sit only
the boiler at the fire, Wiebe, "I said," I will take them, we come back soon. "- After a while I
was at Anne Lene. When I called her name, she stopped and turned head back to me. I suddenly felt
how much of her image in my memory was extinguished. So sweet I had not imagined, and yet she was
still the same; only her eyes seemed to become darker, and the lines of the soft profile were
a little rigorously considered as prior years. I took both her hands. "Dear Anne Lene," said
I, "I'm just arrived and I wanted to see you today!"

"Thank you, Marx," she replied, "I knew you would come this day." - But their ideas did not seem
to be with this welcome, for they turned their eyes immediately to move on again from me and began
walking on the walkways. "Come with me a little," she continued, "we go together back to the farm."

"But
it gets cold, Anne Lene!"

"Oh, it's not so cold," she said, by the great scarf tightly around her shoulders moved .-- We
went on for. I tried all sorts of conversation, but none would succeed. It was already evening,
a moist northwest was blowing from the sea over the landscape, and before Haffdeich you saw us
on the night sky against the brown individual carts as shadow play . By passing After a while I
noticed a man coming down on the side of the dike and go to meet us on the paths. It was the postman
who twice for a week the farm owner's letters from the city took. I felt like Anne Lene hastened
her steps, When he came near us. "Do you have something for me, Carsten?" she asked, searching in
her voice in vain to conceal an inner restlessness.

The messenger flipped around in his leather bag between the letters. "For this time not dear lady,
"he finally said with an embarrassed friendliness by the repealed Flap dropped again over his
bag. He liked that answer has often been have. Anne Lene silent for a moment. "It's good, Carsten,"
said she, "you can first go with us and eat dinner "- you seemed to have reached their migration
destination.; for they repented at the words, and we went with the messenger back to the court.
Dusk had already fallen considerably. From the Ackerstueck on which we passed, one heard the
sounds of short Brachvoegel that lay hidden in the furrows, and sometimes Lapwing flew screaming in
front of us, and in the pastures the cattle stood in the dark, unrecognizable Masses together
.-- We were on the way back, as it is done in agreement, not a word another change, and as we were
already reached in the dark on the hill, took Anne Lene my hand. "Good night, Marx" she said,
"forgive me, I'm tired, I must sleep, you know, you come very soon once again out to us "with
these words! they came in the front door, and soon I heard she went up the stairs to her room.

I
went to the old courtiers, in the company of the messenger in the oven for her Evening tea
sat. Wieb away for a moment to bring up a light Anne Lene; then they
forced me to participate in their meal, and I had to tell and tell .

Let About it, it was getting late, so I did not go back to the city. I asked my old friend, aufzuschuetten
me a stray in her room, and strolled While this was happening, out into the garden. As I entered the
grove on the northern side came, I noticed that Anne Lene was still light in her room.
 Three years ago, had any
one told me that a blind man could qualify as a stenographer I should have ridiculed the idea.
But I am now able to take dictation in Braille shorthand at the rate of one hundred and twenty
words per minute and then transcribe my notes on any typewriting machine on the market just
as speedily as the ordinary sighted typist. And I never operated a typewriting machine before
I became a student at St. Dunstan's.

As I said, I am back in Canada, and not getting my living through charity. What I am I owe
to St. Dunstan's, and while labouring here my heart ever goes back to dear old England. I feel
towards St. Dunstan's--and so do all the boys who have passed through her halls--as does the
grown man for the place of his birth. She is home for me. I was born again and nurtured into
a new manhood by her, led by her from stygian darkness to mental and spiritual light, and my
heart turns with longing towards her. At times, separation from the genial atmosphere of this
paradise of the sightless, from contact with the dominating, kindly presence of Sir Arthur
Pearson and his noble assistants, weighs heavily upon my spirits. But there is work to be done
here in Canada, and, in a humble way, I am able to continue the good work done at St. Dunstan's;
if not in a militant way, at least by example, taking my place among the producers, toiling
daily with hands and brain.

