And from thence St. Austin and his fellowship came into England and arrived in the isle of
Thanet in East Kent, and king Ethelbert reigned that time in Kent, which was a noble man and
a mighty. To whom St. Austin sent, showing the intent of his coming from the court of Rome,
and said that he had brought to him right joyful and pleasant tidings, and said that if he
would obey and do after his preaching that he should have everlasting joy in the bliss of heaven,
and should reign with Almighty God in his kingdom. And then King Ethelbert hearing this, commanded
that they should abide and tarry in the same isle, and that all things should be ministered
to them that were necessary, unto the time that he were otherwise advised. And soon after,
the king came to them in the same isle, and he being in the field, St. Austin with his fellowship
came and spake with him, having tofore them the sign of the cross, singing by the way the litany,
beseeching God devoutly to strengthen them and help. And the king received him and his fellowship,
and in the same place St. Austin preached a glorious sermon, and declared to the king the Christian
faith openly and the great merit and avail that should come thereof in time coming. And when
he had ended his sermon the king said to him: Your promises be full fair that ye bring, but
because they be new and have not been heard here before, we may not yet give consent thereto;
nevertheless, because ye be come as pilgrims from far countries, we will not be grevious ne
hard to you, but we will receive you meekly and minister to you such things as be necessary,
neither we will forbid you, but as many as ye can convert to your faith and religion by your
preaching ye shall have license to baptize them, and to accompany them to your law. And then
the king gave to them a mansion in the city of Dorobernence, which now is called Canterbury.
And when they drew nigh the city they came in with a cross of silver, and with procession singing
the litany, praying Almighty God of succor and help that he would take away his wrath from
the city and to inflame the hearts of the people to receive his doctrine. And then St. Austin
and his fellowship began to preach there the word of God, and about there in the province,
and such people as were well disposed anon were converted, and followed this holy man. And
by the holy conversation and miracles that they did much people were converted and great fame
arose in the country. And when it came to the king's ear, anon he came to the presence of St.
Austin and desired him to preach again, and then the word of God so inflamed him, that incontinent,
as soon as the sermon was ended, the king fell down to the feet of St. Austin and said sorrowfully:
Alas! woe is me, that I have erred so long and know not of him that thou speakest of, thy promises
be so delectable that I think it all too long till I be christened, wherefore, holy father,
I require thee to minister to me the sacrament of baptism. And then St. Austin, seeing the
great meekness and obedience of the king that he had to be christened, he took him up with
weeping tears and baptized him with all his household and meiny, and informed them diligently
in the Christian faith with great joy and gladness. And when all this was done St. Austin,
desiring the health of the people of England, went forth on foot to York; and when he came
nigh to the city there met him a blind man which said to him: O thou holy Austin, help me that
am full needy. To whom St. Austin said: I have no silver, but such as I have I give thee; in
the name of Jesu Christ arise and be all whole, and with that word he received his sight and
believed in our Lord and was baptized. And upon Christmas day he baptized, in the river named
Swale, ten thousand men without women and children, and there was a great multitude of people
resorting to the said river, which was so deep that no man might pass over on foot, and yet
by miracle of our Lord there was neither man, woman, ne child drowned, but they that were sick
were made whole both in body and in soul. And in the same place they builded a church in the
worship of God and St. Austin. And when St. Austin had preached the faith to the people and
had confirmed them steadfastly therein, he returned again from York, and by the way he met
a leper asking help, and when St. Austin had said these words to him: In the name of Jesu Christ
be thou cleansed from all thy leprosy, anon all his filth fell away, and a fair new skin appeared
on his body so that he seemed all a new man.

Also as St. Austin came into Oxfordshire to a town that is called Compton to preach the word
of God, to whom the curate said: Holy father, the lord of this lordship hath been ofttimes
warned of me to pay his tithes to God, and yet he withholdeth them, and therefore I have cursed
him, and I find him the more obstinate. To whom St. Austin said: Son, why payest thou not thy
tithes to God and to the church? Knowest thou not that the tithes be not thine but belong to
God? And then the knight said to him: I know well that I till the ground, wherefore I ought
as well to have the tenth sheaf as the ninth, and when St. Austin could not turn the knight's
entent, then he departed from him and went to mass. And ere he began he charged that all they
that were accursed should go out of the church, and then rose a dead body and went out in to
the churchyard with a white cloth on his head, and stood still there till the mass was done.
And then St. Austin went to him and demanded him what he was, and he answered and said: I was
sometime lord of this town, and because I would not pay my tithes to my curate he accursed
me, and so I died and went to hell. And then St. Austin bade bring him to the place where his
curate was buried, and then the carrion brought him thither to the grave, and because that
all men should know that life and death be in the power of God, St. Austin said: I command
thee in the name of God to arise, for we have need of thee, and then he arose anon, and stood
before all the people. To whom St. Austin said: Thou knowest well that our Lord is merciful,
and I demand thee, brother, if thou knowest this man? and he said: Yea, would God that I had
never known him, for he was a withholder of his tithes, and in all his life an, evil doer,
thou knowest that our Lord is merciful, and as long as the pains of hell endure let us also
be merciful to all Christians. And then St. Austin delivered to the curate a rod, and there
the knight kneeling on his knees was assoiled, and then he commanded him to go again to his
grave, and there to abide till the day of doom; and he entered anon into his grave and forthwith
fell to ashes and powder. And then St. Austin said to the priest: How long hast thou lain here?
and he said a hundred and fifty years; and then he asked how it stood with him, and he said:
Well, holy father, for I am in everlasting bliss; and then said St. Austin: Wilt thou that
I pray to Almighty God that thou abide here with us to confirm the hearts of men in very belief?
And then he said: Nay, holy father, for I am in a place of rest; and then said St. Austin:
Go in peace, and pray for me and for all holy church, and he then entered again into his grave,
and anon the body was turned to earth. Of this sight the lord was sore afeard, and came all
quaking to St. Austin and to his curate, and demanded forgiveness of his trespass, and promised
to make amends and ever after to pay his tithes and to follow the doctrine of St. Austin.

After this St. Austin entered into Dorsetshire, and came in to a town whereas were wicked people
who refused his doctrine and preaching utterly and drove him out of the town, casting on him
the tails of thornbacks, or like fishes, wherefore he besought Almighty God to show his judgment
on them, and God sent to them a shameful token, for the children that were born after in that
place had tails, as it is said, till they had repented them. It is said commonly that this
fell at Strood in Kent, but blessed be God at this day is no such deformity. Item in another
place there were certain people which would in no wise give faith to his preaching ne his doctrine,
but scorned and mocked him, wherefore God took such vengeance that they burned with fire invisible,
so that their skin was red as blood, and suffered so great pain that they were constrained
to come and ask forgiveness of St. Austin, and then he prayed God for them that they might
be acceptable to him and receive baptism and that he would release their pain, and then he
christened them and that burning heat was quenched and they were made perfectly whole, and
felt never after more thereof. On a time, as St. Austin was in his prayers, our Lord appeared
to him, and comforting him with a gentle and familiar speech, said: O thou my good servant
and true, be thou comforted and do manly, for I thy Lord God am with thee in all thine affection,
and mine ears be open to thy prayers, and for whom thou demandest any petition thou shalt have
thy desire, and the gate of everlasting life is open to thee, where thou shalt joy with me
without end. And in that same place where our Lord said these words he fixed his staff into
the ground, and a well of clear water sourded and sprang up in that same place, the which well
is called Cerne, and it is in the country of Dorset, whereas now is builded a fair abbey, and
is named Cerne after the well. And the church is builded in the same place whereas our Lord
appeared to St. Austin. Also in the same country was a young man that was lame, dumb, and deaf,
and by the prayers of St. Austin he was made whole, and then soon after he was dissolute and
wanton, and noyed and grieved the people with jangling and talking in the church. And then
God sent to him his old infirmity again, because of his misguiding, and at the last he fell
to repentance, and asked God forgiveness and St. Austin. And St. Austin prayed for him and
he was made whole again the second time, and after that he continued in good and virtuous living
to his life's end.

And after this St. Austin, full of virtues, departed out of this world unto our Lord God, and
lieth buried at Canterbury in the abbey that he founded there in the worship and rule, whereas
our Lord God showeth yet daily many miracles. And the third day before the nativity of our
Lady is hallowed the translation of St. Austin. In which night a citizen of Canterbury, being
that time at Winchester, saw heaven open over the church of St. Austin, and a burning ladder
shining full bright, and angels coming down to the same church. And then him thought that the
church had burned of the great light and brightness that came down on the ladder, and marvelled
greatly what this should mean, for he knew nothing of the translation of St. Austin; and when
he knew the truth, that on that time the body of the glorious saint was translated, he gave
laud and thankings to almighty God, and we may verily know by that evident vision that it is
an holy and devout place; and as it is said that of old time, ancient holy men that used to
come thither would at the entry of it do off their hosen and shoes and durst not presume to
go into that holy monastery but barefoot, because so many holy saints be there shrined and
buried. And God hath showed so many miracles in that holy place for his blessed saint, St.
Austin, that if I should write them here it should occupy a great book.

EDWIN AND PAULINUS

The Conversion of Northumbria

The black-hair'd gaunt Paulinus
  By ruddy Edwin stood:--
"Bow down, O king of Deira,
  Before the blessed Rood!
Cast out thy heathen idols,
  And worship Christ our Lord."
--But Edwin look'd and ponder'd,
  And answer'd not a word.

Again the gaunt Paulinus
  To ruddy Edwin spake:
"God offers life immortal
  For his dear Son's own sake!
Wilt thou not hear his message,
  Who bears the keys and sword?"
--But Edwin look'd and ponder'd,
  And answer'd not a word.

Rose then a sage old warrior;
  Was five-score winters old;
Whose beard from chin to girdle
  Like one long snow-wreath roll'd:--
"At Yule-time in our chamber
  We sit in warmth and light,
While cold and howling round us
  Lies the black land of Night.

"Athwart the room a sparrow
  Darts from the open door:
Within the happy hearth-light
  One red flash--and no more!
We see it come from darkness,
  And into darkness go:--
So is our life, King Edwin!
  Alas, that it is so!

"But if this pale Paulinus
  Have somewhat more to tell;
Some news of Whence and Whither,
  And where the soul will dwell;--
If on that outer darkness
  The sun of hope may shine;--
He makes life worth the living!
  I take his God for mine!"

So spake the wise old warrior;
  And all about him cried:
"Paulinus' God hath conquer'd!
  And he shall be our guide:--
For he makes life worth living
  Who brings this message plain,
When our brief days are over,
  That we shall live again."

--Unknown

THE LIFE OF ST. GEORGE MARTYR

St. George was a knight and born in Cappadocia. On a time he came in to the province of Libya,
to a city which is said Silene. And by this city was a stagne or a pond like a sea, wherein
was a dragon which envenomed all the country. And on a time the people were assembled for to
slay him, and when they saw him they fled. And when he came nigh the city he venomed the people
with his breath, and therefore the people of the city gave to him every day two sheep for to
feed him, because he should do no harm to the people, and when the sheep failed there was taken
a man and a sheep. Then was an ordinance made in the town that there should be taken the children
and young people of them of the town by lot, and every each one as it fell, were he gentle
or poor, should be delivered when the lot fell on him or her. So it happed that many of them
of the town were then delivered, insomuch that the lot fell upon the king's daughter, whereof
the king was sorry, and said unto the people: For the love of the gods take gold and silver
and all that I have, and let me have my daughter. They said: How sir! ye have made and ordained
the law, and our children be now dead, and ye would do the contrary. Your daughter shall be
given, or else we shall burn you and your house.

When the king saw he might no more do, he began to weep, and said to his daughter: Now shall
I never see thine espousals. Then returned he to the people ami demanded eight days' respite,
and they granted it to him. And when the eight days were passed they came to him and said:
Thou seest that the city perisheth: Then did the king do array his daughter like as she should
be wedded, and embraced her, kissed her and gave her his benediction, and after, led her to
the place where the dragon was.

