MARION FAY.

A Novel.

by

ANTHONY TROLLOPE,

Author of "Framley Parsonage," "Orley Farm," "The Way We Live Now," etc., etc.

In Three Volumes.

VOL. I.

London: Chapman & Hall, Limited, 11, Henrietta St. 1882 [All Rights reserved.]

Bungay: Clay and Taylor, Printers.

CONTENTS OF VOLUME I.

       I. THE MARQUIS OF KINGSBURY.
      II. LORD HAMPSTEAD.
     III. THE MARCHIONESS.
      IV. LADY FRANCES.
       V. MRS. RODEN.
      VI. PARADISE ROW.
     VII. THE POST OFFICE.
    VIII. MR. GREENWOOD.
      IX. AT KÖNIGSGRAAF.
       X. "NOBLESSE OBLIGE."
      XI. LADY PERSIFLAGE.
     XII. CASTLE HAUTBOY.
    XIII. THE BRAESIDE HARRIERS.
     XIV. COMING HOME FROM HUNTING.
      XV. MARION FAY AND HER FATHER.
     XVI. THE WALK BACK TO HENDON.
    XVII. LORD HAMPSTEAD'S SCHEME.
   XVIII. HOW THEY LIVED AT TRAFFORD PARK.
     XIX. LADY AMALDINA'S LOVER.
      XX. THE SCHEME IS SUCCESSFUL.
     XXI. WHAT THEY ALL THOUGHT AS THEY WENT HOME.
    XXII. AGAIN AT TRAFFORD.

MARION FAY.

CHAPTER I.

THE MARQUIS OF KINGSBURY.

When Mr. Lionel Trafford went into Parliament for the Borough of Wednesbury as an advanced
Radical, it nearly broke the heart of his uncle, the old Marquis of Kingsbury. Among Tories
of his day the Marquis had been hyper-Tory,--as were his friends, the Duke of Newcastle, who
thought that a man should be allowed to do what he liked with his own, and the Marquis of Londonderry,
who, when some such falling-off in the family politics came near him, spoke with indignation
of the family treasure which had been expended in defending the family seat. Wednesbury had
never been the Marquis's own; but his nephew was so in a peculiar sense. His nephew was necessarily
his heir,--the future Marquis,--and the old Marquis never again, politically, held up his head.
He was an old man when this occurred, and luckily for him he did not live to see the worse
things which came afterwards.

The Member for Wednesbury became Marquis and owner of the large family property, but still
he kept his politics. He was a Radical Marquis, wedded to all popular measures, not ashamed
of his Charter days, and still clamorous for further Parliamentary reform, although it was
regularly noted in Dod that the Marquis of Kingsbury was supposed to have strong influence
in the Borough of Edgeware. It was so strong that both he and his uncle had put in whom they
pleased. His uncle had declined to put him in because of his renegade theories, but he revenged
himself by giving the seat to a glib-mouthed tailor, who, to tell the truth, had not done much
credit to his choice.

But it came to pass that the shade of his uncle was avenged, if it can be supposed that such
feelings will affect the eternal rest of a dead Marquis. There grew up a young Lord Hampstead,
the son and heir of the Radical Marquis, promising in intelligence and satisfactory in externals,
but very difficult to deal with as to the use of his thoughts. They could not keep him at Harrow
or at Oxford, because he not only rejected, but would talk openly against, Christian doctrines;
a religious boy, but determined not to believe in revealed mysteries. And at twenty-one he
declared himself a Republican,--explaining thereby that he disapproved altogether of hereditary
honours. He was quite as bad to this Marquis as had been this Marquis to the other. The tailor
kept his seat because Lord Hampstead would not even condescend to sit for the family borough.
He explained to his father that he had doubts about a Parliament of which one section was hereditary,
but was sure that at present he was too young for it. There must surely have been gratification
in this to the shade of the departed Marquis.

But there was worse than this,--infinitely worse. Lord Hampstead formed a close friendship
with a young man, five years older than himself, who was but a clerk in the Post Office. In
George Roden, as a man and a companion, there was no special fault to be found. There may be
those who think that a Marquis's heir should look for his most intimate friend in a somewhat
higher scale of social rank, and that he would more probably serve the purposes of his future
life by associating with his equals;--that like to like in friendship is advantageous. The
Marquis, his father, certainly thought so in spite of his Radicalism. But he might have been
pardoned on the score of Roden's general good gifts,--might have been pardoned even though
it were true, as supposed, that to Roden's strong convictions Lord Hampstead owed much of the
ultra virus of his political convictions,--might have been pardoned had not there been worse
again. At Hendon Hall, the Marquis's lovely suburban seat, the Post Office clerk was made acquainted
with Lady Frances Trafford, and they became lovers.

The radicalism of a Marquis is apt to be tainted by special considerations in regard to his
own family. This Marquis, though he had his exoteric politics, had his esoteric feelings. With
him, Liberal as he was, his own blood possessed a peculiar ichor. Though it might be well that
men in the mass should be as nearly equal as possible, yet, looking at the state of possibilities
and realities as existent, it was clear to him that a Marquis of Kingsbury had been placed
on a pedestal. It might be that the state of things was matter for regret. In his grander moments
he was certain that it was so. Why should there be a ploughboy unable to open his mouth because
of his infirmity, and a Marquis with his own voice very resonant in the House of Lords, and
a deputy voice dependent on him in the House of Commons? He had said so very frequently before
his son, not knowing then what might be the effect of his own teaching. There had been a certain
pride in his heart as he taught these lessons, wrong though it might be that there should be
a Marquis and a ploughboy so far reversed by the injustice of Fate. There had been a comfort
to him in feeling that Fate had made him the Marquis, and had made some one else the ploughboy.
He knew what it was to be a Marquis down to the last inch of aristocratic admeasurement. He
would fain that his children should have understood this also. But his lesson had gone deeper
than he had intended, and great grief had come of it.

The Marquis had been first married to a lady altogether unconnected with noble blood, but whose
father had held a position of remarkable ascendancy in the House of Commons. He had never been
a Cabinet Minister, because he had persisted in thinking that he could better serve his country
by independence. He had been possessed of wealth, and had filled a great place in the social
world. In marrying the only daughter of this gentleman the Marquis of Kingsbury had indulged
his peculiar taste in regard to Liberalism, and was at the same time held not to have derogated
from his rank. She had been a woman of great beauty and of many intellectual gifts,--thoroughly
imbued with her father's views, but altogether free from feminine pedantry and that ambition
which begrudges to men the rewards of male labour. Had she lived, Lady Frances might probably
not have fallen in with the Post Office clerk; nevertheless, had she lived, she would have
known the Post Office clerk to be a worthy gentleman.

But she had died when her son was about sixteen and her daughter no more than fifteen. Two
years afterwards our Marquis had gone among the dukes, and had found for himself another wife.
Perhaps the freshness and edge of his political convictions had been blunted by that gradual
sinking down among the great peers in general which was natural to his advanced years. A man
who has spouted at twenty-five becomes tired of spouting at fifty, if nothing special has come
from his spouting. He had been glad when he married Lady Clara Mountressor to think that circumstances
as they had occurred at the last election would not make it necessary for him to deliver up
the borough to the tailor on any further occasion. The tailor had been drunk at the hustings,
and he ventured to hope that before six months were over Lord Hampstead would have so far rectified
his frontiers as to be able to take a seat in the House of Commons.

Then very quickly there were born three little flaxen-haired boys,--who became at least flaxen-haired
as they emerged from their cradles,--Lord Frederic, Lord Augustus, and Lord Gregory. That they
must be brought up with ideas becoming the scions of a noble House there could be no doubt.
Their mother was every inch a duke's daughter. But, alas, not one of them was likely to become
Marquis of Kingsbury. Though born so absolutely in the purple they were but younger sons. This
was a silent sorrow;--but when their half sister Lady Frances told their mother openly that
she had plighted her troth to the Post Office clerk, that was a sorrow which did not admit
of silence.

When Lord Hampstead had asked permission to bring his friend to the house there seemed to be
no valid reason for refusing him. Low as he had descended amidst the depths of disreputable
opinion, it was not supposed that even he would countenance anything so horrible as this. And
was there not ground for security in the reticence and dignity of Lady Frances herself? The
idea never presented itself to the Marchioness. When she heard that the Post Office clerk was
coming she was naturally disgusted. All Lord Hampstead's ideas, doings, and ways were disgusting
to her. She was a woman full of high-bred courtesy, and had always been gracious to her son-in-law's
friends,--but it had been with a cold grace. Her heart rejected them thoroughly,--as she did
him, and, to tell the truth, Lady Frances also. Lady Frances had all her mother's dignity,
all her mother's tranquil manner, but something more than her mother's advanced opinions. She,
too, had her ideas that the world should gradually be taught to dispense with the distances
which separate the dukes and the ploughboys,--gradually, but still with a progressive motion,
always tending in that direction. This to her stepmother was disgusting.

The Post Office clerk had never before been received at Hendon Hall, though he had been introduced
in London by Lord Hampstead to his sister. The Post Office clerk had indeed abstained from
coming, having urged his own feelings with his friend as to certain unfitnesses. "A Marquis
is as absurd to me as to you," he had said to Lord Hampstead, "but while there are Marquises
they should be indulged,--particularly Marchionesses. An over-delicate skin is a nuisance;
but if skins have been so trained as not to bear the free air, veils must be allowed for their
protection. The object should be to train the skin, not to punish it abruptly. An unfortunate
Sybarite Marchioness ought to have her rose leaves. Now I am not a rose leaf." And so he had
stayed away.

But the argument had been carried on between the friends, and the noble heir had at last prevailed.
George Roden was not a rose leaf, but he was found at Hendon to have flowers of beautiful hues
and with a sweet scent. Had he not been known to be a Post Office clerk,--could the Marchioness
have been allowed to judge of him simply from his personal appearance,--he might have been
taken to be as fine a rose leaf as any. He was a tall, fair, strongly-built young man, with
short light hair, pleasant grey eyes, an aquiline nose, and small mouth. In his gait and form
and face nothing was discernibly more appropriate to Post Office clerks than to the nobility
at large. But he was a clerk, and he himself, as he himself declared, knew nothing of his own
family,--remembered no relation but his mother.

It had come to pass that the house at Hendon had become specially the residence of Lord Hampstead,
who would neither have lodgings of his own in London or make part of the family when it occupied
Kingsbury House in Park Lane. He would sometimes go abroad, would sometimes appear for a week
or two at Trafford Park, the grand seat in Yorkshire. But he preferred the place, half town
half country, in the neighbourhood of London, and here George Roden came frequently backwards
and forwards after the ice had been broken by a first visit. Sometimes the Marquis would be
there, and with him his daughter,--rarely the Marchioness. Then came the time when Lady Frances
declared boldly to her stepmother that she had pledged her troth to the Post Office clerk.
That happened in June, when Parliament was sitting, and when the flowers at Hendon were at
their best. The Marchioness came there for a day or two, and the Post Office clerk on that
morning had left the house for his office work, not purposing to come back. Some words had
been said which had caused annoyance, and he did not intend to return. When he had been gone
about an hour Lady Frances revealed the truth.

Her brother at that time was two-and-twenty. She was a year younger. The clerk might perhaps
be six years older than the young lady. Had he only been the eldest son of a Marquis, or Earl,
or Viscount; had he been but an embryo Baron, he might have done very well. He was a well-spoken
youth, yet with a certain modesty, such a one as might easily take the eye of a wished-for
though ever so noble a mother-in-law. The little lords had learned to play with him, and it
had come about that he was at his ease in the house. The very servants had seemed to forget
that he was no more than a clerk, and that he went off by railway into town every morning that
he might earn ten shillings by sitting for six hours at his desk. Even the Marchioness had
almost trained herself to like him,--as one of those excrescences which are sometimes to be
found in noble families, some governess, some chaplain or private secretary, whom chance or
merit has elevated in the house, and who thus becomes a trusted friend. Then by chance she
heard the name "Frances" without the prefix "Lady," and said a word in haughty anger. The Post
Office clerk packed up his portmanteau, and Lady Frances told her story.

Lord Hampstead's name was John. He was the Honourable John Trafford, called by courtesy Earl
of Hampstead. To the world at large he was Lord Hampstead,--to his friends in general he was
Hampstead; to his stepmother he was especially Hampstead,--as would have been her own eldest
son the moment he was born had he been born to such good luck. To his father he had become
Hampstead lately. In early days there had been some secret family agreement that in spite of
conventionalities he should be John among them. The Marquis had latterly suggested that increasing
years made this foolish; but the son himself attributed the change to step-maternal influences.
But still he was John to his sister, and John to some half-dozen sympathising friends,--and
among others to the Post Office clerk.

"He has not said a word to me," the sister replied when she was taxed by her brother with seeming
partiality for their young visitor.

"But he will?"

"No girl will ever admit as much as that, John."

"But if he should?"

"No girl will have an answer ready for such a suggestion."

"I know he will."

"If so, and if you have wishes to express, you should speak to him."

All this made the matter quite clear to her brother. A girl such as was his sister would not
so receive a brother's notice as to a proposed overture of love from a Post Office clerk, unless
she had brought herself to look at the possibility without abhorrence.

"Would it go against the grain with you, John?" This was what the clerk said when he was interrogated
by his friend.

"There would be difficulties."

"Very great difficulties,--difficulties even with you."

"I did not say so."

"They would come naturally. The last thing that a man can abandon of his social idolatries
is the sanctity of the women belonging to him."

"God forbid that I should give up anything of the sanctity of my sister."

"No; but the idolatry attached to it! It is as well that even a nobleman's daughter should
be married if she can find a nobleman or such like to her taste. There is no breach of sanctity
in the love,--but so great a wound to the idolatry in the man! Things have not changed so quickly
that even you should be free from the feeling. Three hundred years ago, if the man could not
be despatched out of the country or to the other world, the girl at least would be locked up.
Three hundred years hence the girl and the man will stand together on their own merits. Just
in this period of transition it is very hard for such a one as you to free himself altogether
from the old trammels."

"I make the endeavour."

"Most bravely. But, my dear fellow, let this individual thing stand separately, away from politics
and abstract ideas. I mean to ask your sister whether I can have her heart, and, as far as
her will goes, her hand. If you are displeased I suppose we shall have to part,--for a time.
Let theories run ever so high, Love will be stronger than them all." Lord Hampstead at this
moment gave no assurance of his good will; but when it came to pass that his sister had given
her assurance, then he ranged himself on the side of his friend the clerk.

So it came to pass that there was great trouble in the household of the Marquis of Kingsbury.
The family went abroad before the end of July, on account of the health of the children. So
said the Morning Post. Anxious friends inquired in vain what could have befallen those flaxen-haired
young Herculeses. Why was it necessary that they should be taken to the Saxon Alps when the
beauties and comforts of Trafford Park were so much nearer and so superior? Lady Frances was
taken with them, and there were one or two noble intimates among the world of fashion who heard
some passing whispers of the truth. When passing whispers creep into the world of fashion they
are heard far and wide.

CHAPTER II.

LORD HAMPSTEAD.

Lord Hampstead, though he would not go into Parliament or belong to any London Club, or walk
about the streets with a chimney-pot hat, or perform any of his public functions as a young
nobleman should do, had, nevertheless, his own amusements and his own extravagances. In the
matter of money he was placed outside his father's liberality,--who was himself inclined to
be liberal enough,--by the fact that he had inherited a considerable portion of his maternal
grandfather's fortune. It might almost be said truly of him that money was no object to him.
It was not that he did not often talk about money and think about money. He was very prone
to do so, saying that money was the most important factor in the world's justices and injustices.
But he was so fortunately circumstanced as to be able to leave money out of his own personal
consideration, never being driven by the want of it to deny himself anything, or tempted by
a superabundance to expenditure which did not otherwise approve itself to him. To give 10s.
or 20s. a bottle for wine because somebody pretended that it was very fine, or £300 for a horse
when one at a £100 would do his work for him, was altogether below his philosophy. By his father's
lodge gate there ran an omnibus up to town which he would often use, saying that an omnibus
with company was better than a private carriage with none. He was wont to be angry with himself
in that he employed a fashionable tailor, declaring that he incurred unnecessary expense merely
to save himself the trouble of going elsewhere. In this, however, it may be thought that there
was something of pretence, as he was no doubt conscious of good looks, and aware probably that
a skilful tailor might add a grace.

In his amusements he affected two which are especially expensive. He kept a yacht, in which
he was accustomed to absent himself in the summer and autumn, and he had a small hunting establishment
in Northamptonshire. Of the former little need be said here, as he spent his time on board
much alone, or with friends with whom we need not follow him; but it may be said that everything
about the Free Trader was done well,--for such was the name of the vessel. Though he did not
pay 10s. a bottle for his wine, he paid the best price for sails and cordage, and hired a competent
skipper to look after himself and his boat. His hunting was done very much in the same way,--unless
it be that in his yachting he was given to be tranquil, and in his hunting he was very fond
of hard riding. At Gorse Hall, as his cottage was called, he had all comforts, we may perhaps
say much of luxury, around him. It was indeed hardly more than a cottage, having been an old
farm-house, and lately converted to its present purpose. There were no noble surroundings,
no stately hall, no marble staircases, no costly salon. You entered by a passage which deserved
no auguster name, on the right of which was the dining-room; on the left a larger chamber,
always called the drawing-room because of the fashion of the name. Beyond that was a smaller
retreat in which the owner kept his books. Leading up from the end of the passage there was
a steep staircase, a remnant of the old farm-house, and above them five bed-rooms, so that
his lordship was limited to the number of four guests. Behind this was the kitchen and the
servants' rooms--sufficient, but not more than sufficient, for such a house. Here our young
democrat kept half-a-dozen horses, all of them--as men around were used to declare--fit to
go, although they were said to have been bought at not more than £100 each. It was supposed
to be a crotchet on the part of Lord Hampstead to assert that cheap things were as good as
dear, and there were some who believed that he did in truth care as much for his horses as
other people. It was certainly a fact that he never would have but one out in a day, and he
was wont to declare that Smith took out his second horse chiefly that Jones might know that
he did so. Down here, at Gorse Hall, the Post Office clerk had often been received as a visitor,--but
not at Gorse Hall had he ever seen Lady Frances.

This lord had peculiar ideas about hunting, in reference to sport in general. It was supposed
of him, and supposed truly, that no young man in England was more devotedly attached to fox-hunting
than he,--and that in want of a fox he would ride after a stag, and in want of a stag after
a drag. If everything else failed he would go home across the country, any friend accompanying
him, or else alone. Nevertheless, he entertained a vehement hostility against all other sports.

Of racing he declared that it had become simply a way of making money, and of all ways the
least profitable to the world and the most disreputable. He was never seen on a racecourse.
But his enemies declared of him, that though he loved riding he was no judge of an animal's
pace, and that he was afraid to bet lest he should lose his money.

Against shooting he was still louder. If there was in his country any tradition, any custom,
any law hateful to him, it was such as had reference to the preservation of game. The preservation
of a fox, he said, stood on a perfectly different basis. The fox was not preserved by law,
and when preserved was used for the advantage of all who chose to be present at the amusement.
One man in one day would shoot fifty pheasants which had eaten up the food of half-a-dozen
human beings. One fox afforded in one day amusement to two hundred sportsmen, and was--or more
generally was not--killed during the performance. And the fox during his beneficial life had
eaten no corn, nor for the most part geese,--but chiefly rats and such like. What infinitesimal
sum had the fox cost the country for every man who rushed after him? Then, what had been the
cost of all those pheasants which one shooting cormorant crammed into his huge bag during one
day's greedy sport?

But it was the public nature of the one amusement and the thoroughly private nature of the
other which chiefly affected him. In the hunting-field the farmer's son, if he had a pony,
or the butcher-boy out of the town, could come and take his part; and if the butcher-boy could
go ahead and keep his place while the man with a red coat and pink boots and with two horses
fell behind, the butcher-boy would have the best of it, and incur the displeasure of no one.
And the laws, too, by which hunting is governed, if there be laws, are thoroughly democratic
in their nature. They are not, he said, made by any Parliament, but are simply assented to
on behalf of the common need. It was simply in compliance with opinion that the lands of all
men are open to be ridden over by the men of the hunt. In compliance with opinion foxes are
preserved. In compliance with opinion coverts are drawn by this or the other pack of hounds.
The Legislature had not stepped in to defile the statute book by bye-laws made in favour of
the amusements of the rich. If injury were done, the ordinary laws of the country were open
to the injured party. Anything in hunting that had grown to be beyond the reach of the law
had become so by the force of popular opinion.

All of this was reversed in shooting, from any participation in which the poor were debarred
by enactments made solely on behalf of the rich. Four or five men in a couple of days would
offer up hecatombs of slaughtered animals, in doing which they could only justify themselves
by the fact that they were acting as poultry-butchers for the supply of the markets of the
country. There was no excitement in it,--simply the firing off of many guns with a rapidity
which altogether prevents that competition which is essential to the enjoyment of sport. Then
our noble Republican would quote Teufelsdröckh and the memorable epitaph of the partridge-slayer.
But it was on the popular and unpopular elements of the two sports that he would most strongly
dilate, and on the iniquity of the game-laws as applying to the more aristocratic of the two.
It was, however, asserted by the sporting world at large that Hampstead could not hit a haystack.

As to fishing, he was almost equally violent, grounding his objection on the tedium and cruelty
incident to the pursuit. The first was only a matter of taste, he would allow. If a man could
content himself and be happy with an average of one fish to every three days' fishing, that
was the man's affair. He could only think that in such case the man himself must be as cold-blooded
as the fish which he so seldom succeeded in catching. As to the cruelty, he thought there could
be no doubt. When he heard that bishops and ladies delighted themselves in hauling an unfortunate
animal about by the gills for more than an hour at a stretch, he was inclined to regret the
past piety of the Church and the past tenderness of the sex. When he spoke in this way the
cruelty of fox-hunting was of course thrown in his teeth. Did not the poor hunted quadrupeds,
when followed hither and thither by a pack of fox-hounds, endure torments as sharp and as prolonged
as those inflicted on the fish? In answer to this Lord Hampstead was eloquent and argumentative.
As far as we could judge from Nature the condition of the two animals during the process was
very different. The salmon with the hook in its throat was in a position certainly not intended
by Nature. The fox, using all its gifts to avoid an enemy, was employed exactly as Nature had
enjoined. It would be as just to compare a human being impaled alive on a stake with another
overburdened with his world's task. The overburdened man might stumble and fall, and so perish.
Things would have been hard to him. But not, therefore, could you compare his sufferings with
the excruciating agonies of the poor wretch who had been left to linger and starve with an
iron rod through his vitals. This argument was thought to be crafty rather than cunning by
those who were fond of fishing. But he had another on which, when he had blown off the steam
of his eloquence by his sensational description of a salmon impaled by a bishop, he could depend
with greater confidence. He would grant,--for the moment, though he was by no means sure of
the fact,--but for the moment he would grant that the fox did not enjoy the hunt. Let it be
acknowledged--for the sake of the argument--that he was tortured by the hounds rather than
elated by the triumphant success of his own manoeuvres. Lord Hampstead "ventured to say,"--this
he would put forward in the rationalistic tone with which he was wont to prove the absurdity
of hereditary honours,--"that in the infliction of all pain the question as to cruelty or no
cruelty was one of relative value." Was it "tanti?" Who can doubt that for a certain maximum
of good a certain minimum of suffering may be inflicted without slur to humanity? In hunting,
one fox was made to finish his triumphant career, perhaps prematurely, for the advantage of
two hundred sportsmen. "Ah, but only for their amusement!" would interpose some humanitarian
averse equally to fishing and to hunting. Then his lordship would arise indignantly and would
ask his opponent, whether what he called amusement was not as beneficial, as essential, as
necessary to the world as even such material good things as bread and meat. Was poetry less
valuable than the multiplication table? Man could exist no doubt without fox-hunting. So he
could without butter, without wine, or other so-called necessaries;--without ermine tippets,
for instance, the original God-invested wearer of which had been doomed to lingering starvation
and death when trapped amidst the snow, in order that one lady might be made fine by the agonies
of a dozen little furry sufferers. It was all a case of "tanti," he said, and he said that
the fox who had saved himself half-a-dozen times and then died nobly on behalf of those who
had been instrumental in preserving an existence for him, ought not to complain of the lot
which Fate had provided for him among the animals of the earth. It was said, however, in reference
to this comparison between fishing and fox-hunting, that Lord Hampstead was altogether deficient
in that skill and patience which is necessary for the landing of a salmon.

But men, though they laughed at him, still they liked him. He was good-humoured and kindly-hearted.
He was liberal in more than his politics. He had, too, a knack of laughing at himself, and
his own peculiarities, which went far to redeem them. That a young Earl, an embryo Marquis,
the heir of such a house as that of Trafford, should preach a political doctrine which those
who heard ignorantly called Communistic, was very dreadful; but the horror of it was mitigated
when he declared that no doubt as he got old he should turn Tory like any other Radical. In
this there seemed to be a covert allusion to his father. And then they could perceive that
his "Communistic" principles did not prevent him from having a good eye to the value of land.
He knew what he was about, as an owner of property should do, and certainly rode to hounds
as well as any one of the boys of the period.

When the idea first presented itself to him that his sister was on the way to fall in love
with George Roden, it has to be acknowledged that he was displeased. It had not occurred to
him that this peculiar breach would be made on the protected sanctity of his own family. When
Roden had spoken to him of this sanctity as one of the "social idolatries," he had not quite
been able to contradict him. He had wished to do so both in defence of his own consistency,
and also, if it were possible, so as to maintain the sanctity. The "divinity" which "does hedge
a king," had been to him no more than a social idolatry. The special respect in which dukes
and such like were held was the same. The judge's ermine and the bishop's apron were idolatries.
Any outward honour, not earned by the deeds or words of him so honoured, but coming from birth,
wealth, or from the doings of another, was an idolatry. Carrying on his arguments, he could
not admit the same thing in reference to his sister;--or rather, he would have to admit it
if he could not make another plea in defence of the sanctity. His sister was very holy to him;--but
that should be because of her nearness to him, because of her sweetness, because of her own
gifts, because as her brother he was bound to be her especial knight till she should have chosen
some other special knight for herself. But it should not be because she was the daughter, granddaughter,
and great-granddaughter of dukes and marquises. It should not be because she was Lady Frances
Trafford. Had he himself been a Post Office clerk, then would not this chosen friend have been
fit to love her? There were unfitnesses, no doubt, very common in this world, which should
make the very idea of love impossible to a woman,--unfitness of character, of habits, of feelings,
of education, unfitnesses as to inward personal nobility. He could not say that there were
any such which ought to separate his sister and his friend. If it was to be that this sweet
sister should some day give her heart to a lover, why not to George Roden as well as to another?
There were no such unfitnesses as those of which he would have thought in dealing with the
lives of some other girl and some other young man.

And yet he was, if not displeased, at any rate dissatisfied. There was something which grated
against either his taste, or his judgment,--or perhaps his prejudices. He endeavoured to inquire
into himself fairly on this matter, and feared that he was yet the victim of the prejudices
of his order. He was wounded in his pride to think that his sister should make herself equal
to a clerk in the Post Office. Though he had often endeavoured, only too successfully, to make
her understand how little she had in truth received from her high birth, yet he felt that she
had received something which should have made the proposal of such a marriage distasteful to
her. A man cannot rid himself of a prejudice because he knows or believes it to be a prejudice.
That the two, if they continued to wish it, must become man and wife he acknowledged to himself;--but
he could not bring himself not to be sorry that it should be so.

There were some words on the subject between himself and his father before the Marquis went
abroad with his family, which, though they did not reconcile him to the match, lessened the
dissatisfaction. His father was angry with him, throwing the blame of this untoward affair
on his head, and he was always prone to resent censure thrown by any of his family on his own
peculiar tenets. Thus it came to pass that in defending himself he was driven to defend his
sister also. The Marquis had not been at Hendon when the revelation was first made, but had
heard it in the course of the day from his wife. His Radical tendencies had done very little
towards reconciling him to such a proposal. He had never brought his theories home into his
own personalities. To be a Radical peer in the House of Lords, and to have sent a Radical tailor
to the House of Commons, had been enough, if not too much, to satisfy his own political ideas.
To himself and to his valet, to all those immediately touching himself, he had always been
the Marquis of Kingsbury. And so also, in his inner heart, the Marchioness was the Marchioness,
and Lady Frances Lady Frances. He had never gone through any process of realizing his convictions
as his son had done. "Hampstead," he said, "can this possibly be true what your mother has
told me?" This took place at the house in Park Lane, to which the Marquis had summoned his son.

"Do you mean about Frances and George Roden?"

"Of course I mean that."

"I supposed you did, sir. I imagined that when you sent for me it was in regard to them. No
doubt it is true."

"What is true? You speak as though you absolutely approved it."

"Then my voice has belied me, for I disapprove of it."

"You feel, I hope, how utterly impossible it is."

"Not that."

"Not that?"

"I cannot say that I think it to be impossible,--or even improbable. Knowing the two, as I
do, I feel the probability to be on their side."

"That they--should be married?"

"That is what they intend. I never knew either of them to mean anything which did not sooner
or later get itself accomplished."

"You'll have to learn it on this occasion. How on earth can it have been brought about?" Lord
Hampstead shrugged his shoulders. "Somebody has been very much to blame."

"You mean me, sir?"

"Somebody has been very much to blame."

"Of course, you mean me. I cannot take any blame in the matter. In introducing George Roden
to you, and to my mother, and to Frances, I brought you to the knowledge of a highly-educated
and extremely well-mannered young man."

"Good God!"

"I did to my friend what every young man, I suppose, does to his. I should be ashamed of myself
to associate with any one who was not a proper guest for my father's table. One does not calculate
before that a young man and a young woman shall fall in love with each other."

"You see what has happened."

"It was extremely natural, no doubt,--though I had not anticipated it. As I told you, I am
very sorry. It will cause many heartburns, and some unhappiness."

"Unhappiness! I should think so. I must go away,--in the middle of the Session."

"It will be worse for her, poor girl."

"It will be very bad for her," said the Marquis, speaking as though his mind were quite made
up on that matter.

"But nobody, as far as I can see, has done anything wrong," continued Lord Hampstead. "When
two young people get together whose tastes are similar, and opinions,--whose educations and
habits of thought have been the same--"

"Habits the same!"

"Habits of thought, I said, sir."

"You would talk the hind legs off a dog," said the Marquis, bouncing out of the room. It was
not unusual with him, in the absolute privacy of his own circle, to revert to language which
he would have felt to be unbecoming to him as Marquis of Kingsbury among ordinary people.

CHAPTER III.

THE MARCHIONESS.

Though the departure of the Marquis was much hurried, there were other meetings between Hampstead
and the family before the flitting was actually made.

"No doubt I will. I am quite with you there," the son said to the father, who had desired him
to explain to the young man the impossibility of such a marriage. "I think it would be a misfortune
to them both, which should be avoided,--if they can get over their present feelings."

"Feelings!"

"I suppose there are such feelings, sir?"

"Of course he is looking for position--and money."

"Not in the least. That might probably be the idea with some young nobleman who would wish
to marry into his own class, and to improve his fortune at the same time. With such a one that
would be fair enough. He would give and take. With George that would not be honest;--nor would
such accusation be true. The position, as you call it, he would feel to be burdensome. As to
money, he does not know whether Frances has a shilling or not."

"Not a shilling,--unless I give it to her."

"He would not think of such a matter."

"Then he must be a very imprudent young man, and unfit to have a wife at all."

"I cannot admit that,--but suppose he is?"

"And yet you think--?"

"I think, sir, that it is unfortunate. I have said so ever since I first heard it. I shall
tell him exactly what I think. You will have Frances with you, and will of course express your
own opinion."

The Marquis was far from satisfied with his son, but did not dare to go on further with the
argument. In all such discussions he was wont to feel that his son was "talking the hind legs
off a dog." His own ideas on concrete points were clear enough to him,--as this present idea
that his daughter, Lady Frances Trafford, would outrage all propriety, all fitness, all decency,
if she were to give herself in marriage to George Roden, the Post Office clerk. But words were
not plenty with him,--or, when plenty, not efficacious,--and he was prone to feel, when beaten
in argument, that his opponent was taking an unfair advantage. Thus it was that he often thought,
and sometimes said, that those who oppressed him with words would "talk the hind legs off a dog."

The Marchioness also expressed her opinion to Hampstead. She was a lady stronger than her husband;--stronger
in this, that she never allowed herself to be worsted in any encounter. If words would not
serve her occasion at the moment, her countenance would do so,--and if not that, her absence.
She could be very eloquent with silence, and strike an adversary dumb by the way in which she
would leave a room. She was a tall, handsome woman, with a sublime gait.--"Vera incessu patuit
Dea." She had heard, if not the words, then some translation of the words, and had taken them
to heart, and borne them with her as her secret motto. To be every inch an aristocrat, in look
as in thought, was the object of her life. That such was her highest duty was quite fixed in
her mind. It had pleased God to make her a Marchioness,--and should she derogate from God's
wish? It had been her one misfortune that God should not also have made her the mother of a
future Marquis. Her face, though handsome, was quite impassive, showing nothing of her sorrows
or her joys; and her voice was equally under control. No one had ever imagined, not even her
husband, that she felt acutely that one blow of fortune. Though Hampstead's politics had been
to her abominable, treasonable, blasphemous, she treated him with an extreme courtesy. If there
were anything that he wished about the house she would have it done for him. She would endeavour
to interest herself about his hunting. And she would pay him a great respect,--to him most
onerous,--as being second in all things to the Marquis. Though a Republican blasphemous rebel,--so
she thought of him,--he was second to the Marquis. She would fain have taught her little boys
to respect him,--as the future head of the family,--had he not been so accustomed to romp with
them, to pull them out of their little beds, and toss them about in their night-shirts, that
they loved him much too well for respect. It was in vain that their mother strove to teach
them to call him Hampstead.

Lady Frances had never been specially in her way, but to Lady Frances the stepmother had been
perhaps harder than to the stepson, of whose presence as an absolute block to her ambition
she was well aware. Lady Frances had no claim to a respect higher than that which was due to
her own children. Primogeniture had done nothing for her. She was a Marquis's daughter, but
her mother had been only the offspring of a commoner. There was perhaps something of conscience
in her feelings towards the two. As Lord Hampstead was undoubtedly in her way, it occurred
to her to think that she should not on that account be inimical to him. Lady Frances was not
in her way,--and therefore was open to depreciation and dislike without wounds to her conscience;
and then, though Hampstead was abominable because of his Republicanism, his implied treason,
and blasphemy, yet he was entitled to some excuse as being a man. These things were abominable
no doubt in him, but more pardonably abominable than they would be in a woman. Lady Frances
had never declared herself to be a Republican or a disbeliever, much less a rebel,--as, indeed,
had neither Lord Hampstead. In the presence of her stepmother she was generally silent on matters
of political or religious interest. But she was supposed to sympathise with her brother, and
was known to be far from properly alive to aristocratic interests. There was never quarrelling
between the two, but there was a lack of that friendship which may subsist between a stepmother
of thirty-eight and a stepdaughter of twenty-one. Lady Frances was tall and slender, with quiet
speaking features, dark in colour, with blue eyes, and hair nearly black. In appearance she
was the very opposite of her stepmother, moving quickly and achieving grace as she did so,
without a thought, by the natural beauty of her motions. The dignity was there, but without
a thought given to it. Not even did the little lords, her brothers, chuck their books and toys
about with less idea of demeanour. But the Marchioness never arranged a scarf or buttoned a
glove without feeling that it was her duty to button her glove and arrange her scarf as became
the Marchioness of Kingsbury.

The stepmother wished no evil to Lady Frances,--only that she should be married properly and
taken out of the way. Any stupid Earl or mercurial Viscount would have done, so long as the
blood and the money had been there. Lady Frances had been felt to be dangerous, and the hope
was that the danger might be got rid of by a proper marriage. But not by such a marriage as this!

When that accidental calling of the name was first heard and the following avowal made, the
Marchioness declared her immediate feelings by a look. It was so that Arthur may have looked
when he first heard that his Queen was sinful,--so that Cæsar must have felt when even Brutus
struck him. For though Lady Frances had been known to be blind to her own greatness, still
this,--this at any rate was not suspected. "You cannot mean it!" the Marchioness had at last said.

"I certainly mean it, mamma." Then the Marchioness, with one hand guarding her raiment, and
with the other raised high above her shoulder, in an agony of supplication to those deities
who arrange the fates of ducal houses, passed slowly out of the room. It was necessary that
she should bethink herself before another word was spoken.

For some time after that very few words passed between her and the sinner. A dead silence best
befitted the occasion;--as, when a child soils her best frock, we put her in the corner with
a scolding; but when she tells a fib we quell her little soul within her by a terrible quiescence.
To be eloquently indignant without a word is within the compass of the thoughtfully stolid.
It was thus that Lady Frances was at first treated by her stepmother. She was, however, at
once taken up to London, subjected to the louder anger of her father, and made to prepare for
the Saxon Alps. At first, indeed, her immediate destiny was not communicated to her. She was
to be taken abroad;--and, in so taking her, it was felt to be well to treat her as the policeman
does his prisoner, whom he thinks to be the last person who need be informed as to the whereabouts
of the prison. It did leak out quickly, because the Marquis had a castle or château of his
own in Saxony;--but that was only an accident.

The Marchioness still said little on the matter,--unless in what she might say to her husband
in the secret recesses of marital discussion; but before she departed she found it expedient
to express herself on one occasion to Lord Hampstead. "Hampstead," she said, "this is a terrible
blow that has fallen upon us."

"I was surprised myself. I do not know that I should call it exactly a blow."

"Not a blow! But of course you mean that it will come to nothing."

"What I meant was, that though I regard the proposition as inexpedient--"

"Inexpedient!"

"Yes;--I think it inexpedient certainly; but there is nothing in it that shocks me."

"Nothing that shocks you!"

"Marriage in itself is a good thing."

"Hampstead, do not talk to me in that way."

"But I think it is. If it be good for a young man to marry it must be good for a young woman
also. The one makes the other necessary."

"But not for such as your sister,--and him--together. You are speaking in that way simply to
torment me."

"I can only speak as I think. I do agree that it would be inexpedient. She would to a certain
extent lose the countenance of her friends--"

"Altogether!"

"Not altogether,--but to some extent. A certain class of people,--not the best worth knowing,--might
be inclined to drop her. However foolish her own friends may be we owe something--even to their
folly."

"Her friends are not foolish,--her proper friends."

"I quite agree with that; but then so many of them are improper."

"Hampstead!"

"I am afraid that I don't make myself quite clear. But never mind. It would be inexpedient.
It would go against the grain with my father, who ought to be consulted."

"I should think so."

"I quite agree with you. A father ought to be consulted, even though a daughter be of age,
so as to be enabled by law to do as she likes with herself. And then there would be money discomforts."

"She would not have a shilling."

"Not but what I should think it my duty to put that right if there were any real distress."
Here spoke the heir, who was already in possession of much, and upon whom the whole property
of the family was entailed. "Nevertheless if I can prevent it,--without quarrelling either
with one or the other, without saying a hard word,--I shall do so."

"It will be your bounden duty."

"It is always a man's bounden duty to do what is right. The difficulty is in seeing the way."
After this the Marchioness was silent. What she had gained by speaking was very little,--little
or nothing. The nature of the opposition he proposed was almost as bad as a sanction, and the
reasons he gave for agreeing with her were as hurtful to her feelings as though they had been
advanced on the other side. Even the Marquis was not sufficiently struck with horror at the
idea that a daughter of his should have condescended to listen to love from a Post Office clerk!

On the day before they started Hampstead was enabled to be alone with his sister for a few
minutes. "What an absurdity it is," she said, laughing,--"this running away."

"It is what you must have expected."

"But not the less absurd. Of course I shall go. Just at the moment I have no alternative; as
I should have none if they threatened to lock me up, till I got somebody to take my case in
hand. But I am as free to do what I please with myself as is papa."

"He has got money."

"But he is not, therefore, to be a tyrant."

"Yes he is;--over an unmarried daughter who has got none. We cannot but obey those on whom
we are dependent."

"What I mean is, that carrying me away can do no good. You don't suppose, John, that I shall
give him up after having once brought myself to say the word! It was very difficult to say;--but
ten times harder to be unsaid. I am quite determined,--and quite satisfied."

"But they are not."

"As regards my father, I am very sorry. As to mamma, she and I are so different in all our
thinking that I know beforehand that whatever I might do would displease her. It cannot be
helped. Whether it be good or bad I cannot be made such as she is. She came too late. You will
not turn against me, John?"

"I rather think I shall."

"John!"

"I may rather say that I have. I do not think your engagement to be wise."

"But it has been made," said she.

"And may be unmade."

"No;--unless by him."

"I shall tell him that it ought to be unmade,--for the happiness of both of you."

"He will not believe you."

Then Lord Hampstead shrugged his shoulders, and thus the conversation was finished.

It was now about the end of June, and the Marquis felt it to be a grievance that he should
be carried away from the charm of political life in London. In the horror of the first revelation
he had yielded, but had since begun to feel that too much was being done in withdrawing him
from Parliament. The Conservatives were now in; but during the last Liberal Government he had
consented so far to trammel himself with the bonds of office as to become Privy Seal for the
concluding six months of its existence, and therefore felt his own importance in a party point
of view. But having acceded to his wife he could not now go back, and was sulky. On the evening
before their departure he was going to dine out with some of the party. His wife's heart was
too deep in the great family question for any gaiety, and she intended to remain at home,--and
to look after the final packings-up for the little lords.

"I really do not see why you should not have gone without me," the Marquis said, poking his
head out of his dressing-room.

"Impossible," said the Marchioness.

"I don't see it at all."

"If he should appear on the scene ready to carry her off, what should I have done?"

Then the Marquis drew his head in again, and went on with his dressing. What, indeed, could
he do himself if the man were to appear on the scene, and if his daughter should declare herself
willing to go off with him?

When the Marquis went to his dinner party the Marchioness dined with Lady Frances. There was
no one else present but the two servants who waited on them, and hardly a word was spoken.
The Marchioness felt that an awful silence was becoming in the situation. Lady Frances merely
determined more strongly than ever that the situation should not last very long. She would
go abroad now, but would let her father understand that the kind of life planned out for her
was one that she could not endure. If she was supposed to have disgraced her position, let
her be sent away.

As soon as the melancholy meal was over the two ladies separated, the Marchioness going up-stairs
among her own children. A more careful, more affectionate, perhaps, I may say, a more idolatrous
mother never lived. Every little want belonging to them,--for even little lords have wants,--was
a care to her. To see them washed and put in and out of their duds was perhaps the greatest
pleasure of her life. To her eyes they were pearls of aristocratic loveliness; and, indeed,
they were fine healthy bairns, clean-limbed, bright-eyed, with grand appetites, and never cross
as long as they were allowed either to romp and make a noise, or else to sleep. Lord Frederic,
the eldest, was already in words of two syllables, and sometimes had a bad time with them.
Lord Augustus was the owner of great ivory letters of which he contrived to make playthings.
Lord Gregory had not as yet been introduced to any of the torments of education. There was
an old English clergyman attached to the family who was supposed to be their tutor, but whose
chief duty consisted in finding conversation for the Marquis when there was no one else to
talk to him. There was also a French governess and a Swiss maid. But as they both learned English
quicker than the children learned French, they were not serviceable for the purpose at first
intended. The Marchioness had resolved that her children should talk three or four languages
as fluently as their own, and that they should learn them without any of the agonies generally
incident to tuition. In that she had not as yet succeeded.

She seated herself for a few minutes among the boxes and portmanteaus in the midst of which
the children were disporting themselves prior to their final withdrawal to bed. No mother was
ever so blessed,--if only, if only! "Mamma," said Lord Frederic, "where's Jack?" "Jack" absolutely
was intended to signify Lord Hampstead.

"Fred, did not I say that you should not call him Jack?"

"He say he is Jack," declared Lord Augustus, rolling up in between his mother's knees with
an impetus which would have upset her had she not been a strong woman and accustomed to these
attacks.

"That is only because he is good-natured, and likes to play with you. You should call him Hampstead."

"Mamma, wasn't he christianed?" asked the eldest.

"Yes, of course he was christened, my dear," said the mother, sadly,--thinking how very much
of the ceremony had been thrown away upon the unbelieving, godless young man. Then she superintended
the putting to bed, thinking what a terrible bar to her happiness had been created by that
first unfortunate marriage of her husband's. Oh, that she should be stepmother to a daughter
who desired to fling herself into the arms of a clerk in the Post Office! And then that an
"unchristianed," that an infidel, republican, un-English, heir should stand in the way of her
darling boy! She had told herself a thousand times that the Devil was speaking to her when
she had dared to wish that,--that Lord Hampstead was not there! She had put down the wish in
her heart very often, telling herself that it came from the Devil. She had made a faint struggle
to love the young man,--which had resulted in constrained civility. It would have been unnatural
to her to love any but her own. Now she thought how glorious her Frederic would have been as
Lord Hampstead,--and how infinitely better it would have been, how infinitely better it would
be, for all the Traffords, for all the nobles of England, and for the country at large! But
in thinking this she knew that she was a sinner, and she endeavoured to crush the sin. Was
it not tantamount to wishing that her husband's son was--dead?

CHAPTER IV.

LADY FRANCES.

There is something so sad in the condition of a girl who is known to be in love, and has to
undergo the process of being made ashamed of it by her friends, that one wonders that any young
woman can bear it. Most young women cannot bear it, and either give up their love or say that
they do. A young man who has got into debt, or been plucked,--or even when he has declared
himself to be engaged to a penniless young lady, which is worse,--is supposed merely to have
gone after his kind, and done what was to be expected of him. The mother never looks at him
with that enduring anger by which she intends to wear out the daughter's constancy. The father
frets and fumes, pays the debts, prepares the way for a new campaign, and merely shrugs his
shoulders about the proposed marriage, which he regards simply as an impossibility. But the
girl is held to have disgraced herself. Though it is expected of her, or at any rate hoped,
that she will get married in due time, yet the falling in love with a man,--which is, we must
suppose, a preliminary step to marriage,--is a wickedness. Even among the ordinary Joneses
and Browns of the world we see that it is so. When we are intimate enough with the Browns to
be aware of Jane Brown's passion, we understand the father's manner and the mother's look.
The very servants about the house are aware that she has given way to her feelings, and treat
her accordingly. Her brothers are ashamed of her. Whereas she, if her brother be in love with
Jemima Jones, applauds him, sympathizes with him, and encourages him.

There are heroines who live through it all, and are true to the end. There are many pseudo-heroines
who intend to do so, but break down. The pseudo-heroine generally breaks down when young Smith,--not
so very young,--has been taken in as a partner by Messrs. Smith and Walker, and comes in her
way, in want of a wife. The persecution is, at any rate, so often efficacious as to make fathers
and mothers feel it to be their duty to use it. It need not be said here how high above the
ways of the Browns soared the ideas of the Marchioness of Kingsbury. But she felt that it would
be her duty to resort to the measures which they would have adopted, and she was determined
that the Marquis should do the same. A terrible evil, an incurable evil, had already been inflicted.
Many people, alas, would know that Lady Frances had disgraced herself. She, the Marchioness,
had been unable to keep the secret from her own sister, Lady Persiflage, and Lady Persiflage
would undoubtedly tell it to others. Her own lady's maid knew it. The Marquis himself was the
most indiscreet of men. Hampstead would see no cause for secrecy. Roden would, of course, boast
of it all through the Post Office. The letter-carriers who attended upon Park Lane would have
talked the matter over with the footmen at the area gate. There could be no hope of secrecy.
All the young marquises and unmarried earls would know that Lady Frances Trafford was in love
with the "postman." But time, and care, and strict precaution might prevent the final misery
of a marriage. Then, if the Marquis would be generous, some young Earl, or at least a Baron,
might be induced to forget the "postman," and to take the noble lily, soiled, indeed, but made
gracious by gilding. Her darlings must suffer. Any excess of money given would be at their
cost. But anything would be better than a Post Office clerk for a brother-in-law.

Such were the views as to their future life with which the Marchioness intended to accompany
her stepdaughter to their Saxon residence. The Marquis, with less of a fixed purpose, was inclined
in the same way. "I quite agree that they should be separated;--quite," he said. "It mustn't
be heard of;--certainly not; certainly not. Not a shilling,--unless she behaves herself properly.
Of course she will have her fortune, but not to bestow it in such a manner as that."

His own idea was to see them all settled in the château, and then, if possible, to hurry back
to London before the season was quite at an end. His wife laid strong injunctions on him as
to absolute secrecy, having forgotten, probably, that she herself had told the whole story
to Lady Persiflage. The Marquis quite agreed. Secrecy was indispensable. As for him, was it
likely that he should speak of a matter so painful and so near to his heart! Nevertheless he
told it all to Mr. Greenwood, the gentleman who acted as tutor, private secretary, and chaplain
in the house.

Lady Frances had her own ideas, as to this going away and living abroad, very strongly developed
in her mind. They intended to persecute her till she should change her purpose. She intended
to persecute them till they should change theirs. She knew herself too well, she thought, to
have any fear as to her own persistency. That the Marchioness should persuade, or even persecute,
her out of an engagement to which she had assented, she felt to be quite out of the question.
In her heart she despised the Marchioness,--bearing with her till the time should come in which
she would be delivered from the nuisance of surveillance under such a woman. In her father
she trusted much, knowing him to be affectionate, believing him to be still opposed to those
aristocratic dogmas which were a religion to the Marchioness,--feeling probably that in his
very weakness she would find her best strength. If her stepmother should in truth become cruel,
then her father would take her part against his wife. There must be a period of discomfort,--say,
six months; and then would come the time in which she would be able to say, "I have tried myself,
and know my own mind, and I intend to go home and get myself married." She would take care
that her declaration to this effect should not come as a sudden blow. The six months should
be employed in preparing for it. The Marchioness might be persistent in preaching her views
during the six months, but so would Lady Frances be persistent in preaching hers.

She had not accepted the man's love when he had offered it, without thinking much about it.
The lesson which she had heard in her earlier years from her mother had sunk deep into her
very soul,--much more deeply than the teacher of those lessons had supposed. That teacher had
never intended to inculcate as a doctrine that rank is a mistake. No one had thought more than
she of the incentives provided by rank to high duty. "Noblesse oblige." The lesson had been
engraved on her heart, and might have been read in all the doings of her life. But she had
endeavoured to make it understood by her children that they should not be over-quick to claim
the privileges of rank. Too many such would be showered on them,--too many for their own welfare.
Let them never be greedy to take with outstretched hands those good things of which Chance
had provided for them so much more than their fair share. Let them remember that after all
there was no virtue in having been born a child to a Marquis. Let them remember how much more
it was to be a useful man, or a kind woman. So the lessons had been given,--and had gone for
more than had been intended. Then all the renown of their father's old politics assisted,--the
re-election of the drunken tailor,--the jeerings of friends who were high enough and near enough
to dare to jeer,--the convictions of childhood that it was a fine thing, because peculiar for
a Marquis and his belongings, to be Radical;--and, added to this, there was contempt for the
specially noble graces of their stepmother. Thus it was that Lord Hampstead was brought to
his present condition of thinking,--and Lady Frances.

Her convictions were quite as strong as his, though they did not assume the same form. With
a girl, at an early age, all her outlookings into the world have something to do with love
and its consequences. When a young man takes his leaning either towards Liberalism or Conservatism
he is not at all actuated by any feeling as to how some possible future young woman may think
on the subject. But the girl, if she entertains such ideas at all, dreams of them as befitting
the man whom she may some day hope to love. Should she, a Protestant, become a Roman Catholic
and then a nun, she feels that in giving up her hope for a man's love she is making the greatest
sacrifice in her power for the Saviour she is taking to her heart. If she devotes herself to
music, or the pencil, or to languages, the effect which her accomplishments may have on some
beau ideal of manhood is present to her mind. From the very first she is dressing herself unconsciously
in the mirror of a man's eyes. Quite unconsciously, all this had been present to Lady Frances
as month after month and year after year she had formed her strong opinions. She had thought
of no man's love,--had thought but little of loving any man,--but in her meditations as to
the weaknesses and vanity of rank there had always been present that idea,--how would it be
with her if such a one should ask for her hand, such a one as she might find among those of
whom she dreamed as being more noble than Dukes, even though they were numbered among the world's
proletaries? Then she had told herself that if any such a one should come,--if at any time
any should be allowed by herself to come,--he should be estimated by his merits, whether Duke
or proletary. With her mind in such a state she had of course been prone to receive kindly
the overtures of her brother's friend.

What was there missing in him that a girl should require? It was so that she had asked herself
the question. As far as manners were concerned, this man was a gentleman. She was quite sure
of that. Whether proletary or not, there was nothing about him to offend the taste of the best-born
of ladies. That he was better educated than any of the highly-bred young men she saw around
her, she was quite sure. He had more to talk about than others. Of his birth and family she
knew nothing, but rather prided herself in knowing nothing, because of that doctrine of hers
that a man is to be estimated only by what he is himself, and not at all by what he may derive
from others. Of his personal appearance, which went far with her, she was very proud. He was
certainly a handsome young man, and endowed with all outward gifts of manliness: easy in his
gait, but not mindful of it, with motions of his body naturally graceful but never studied,
with his head erect, with a laugh in his eye, well-made as to his hands and feet. Neither his
intellect nor his political convictions would have recommended a man to her heart, unless there
had been something in the outside to please her eye, and from the first moment in which she
had met him he had never been afraid of her,--had ventured when he disagreed from her to laugh
at her, and even to scold her. There is no barrier in a girl's heart so strong against love
as the feeling that the man in question stands in awe of her.

She had taken some time before she had given him her answer, and had thought much of the perils
before her. She had known that she could not divest herself of her rank. She had acknowledged
to herself that, whether it was for good or bad, a Marquis's daughter could not be like another
girl. She owed much to her father, much to her brothers, something even to her stepmother.
But was the thing she proposed to do of such a nature as to be regarded as an evil to her family?
She could see that there had been changes in the ways of the world during the last century,--changes
continued from year to year. Rank was not so high as it used to be,--and in consequence those
without rank not so low. The Queen's daughter had married a subject. Lords John and Lords Thomas
were every day going into this and the other business. There were instances enough of ladies
of title doing the very thing which she proposed to herself. Why should a Post Office clerk
be lower than another?

Then came the great question, whether it behoved her to ask her father. Girls in general ask
their mother, and send the lover to the father. She had no mother. She was quite sure that
she would not leave her happiness in the hands of the present Marchioness. Were she to ask
her father she knew that the matter would be at once settled against her. Her father was too
much under the dominion of his wife to be allowed to have an opinion of his own on such a matter.
So she declared to herself, and then determined that she would act on her own responsibility.
She would accept the man, and then take the first opportunity of telling her stepmother what
she had done. And so it was. It was only early on that morning that she had given her answer
to George Roden,--and early on that morning she had summoned up her courage, and told her whole
story.

The station to which she was taken was a large German schloss, very comfortably arranged, with
the mountain as a background and the River Elbe running close beneath its terraces, on which
the Marquis had spent some money, and made it a residence to be envied by the eyes of all passers-by.
It had been bought for its beauty in a freak, but had never been occupied for more than a week
at a time till this occasion. Under other circumstances Lady Frances would have been as happy
here as the day was long, and had often expressed a desire to be allowed to stay for a while
at Königsgraaf. But now, though she made an attempt to regard their sojourn in the place as
one of the natural events of their life, she could not shake off the idea of a prison. The
Marchioness was determined that the idea of a prison should not be shaken off. In the first
few days she said not a word about the objectionable lover, nor did the Marquis. That had been
settled between them. But neither was anything said on any other subject. There was a sternness
in every motion, and a grim silence seemed to preside in the château, except when the boys
were present,--and an attempt was made to separate her from her brothers as much as possible,
which she was more inclined to resent than any other ill usage which was adopted towards her.
After about a fortnight it was announced that the Marquis was to return to London. He had received
letters from "the party" which made it quite necessary that he should be there. When this was
told to Lady Frances not a word was said as to the probable duration of their own stay at the
château.

"Papa," she said, "you are going back to London?"

"Yes, my dear. My presence in town is imperatively necessary."

"How long are we to stay here?"

"How long?"

"Yes, papa. I like Königsgraaf very much. I always thought it the prettiest place I know. But
I do not like looking forward to staying here without knowing when I am to go away."

"You had better ask your mamma, my dear."

"Mamma never says anything to me. It would be no good my asking her. Papa, you ought to tell
me something before you go away."

"Tell you what?"

"Or let me tell you something."

"What do you want to tell me, Frances?" In saying this he assumed his most angry tone and sternest
countenance,--which, however, were not very angry or very stern, and had no effect in frightening
his daughter. He did not, in truth, wish to say a word about the Post Office clerk before he
made his escape, and would have been very glad to frighten her enough to make her silent had
that been possible.

"Papa, I want you to know that it will do no good shutting me up there."

"Nobody shuts you up."

"I mean here in Saxony. Of course I shall stay for some time, but you cannot expect that I
shall remain here always."

"Who has talked about always?"

"I understand that I am brought here to be--out of Mr. Roden's way."

"I would rather not speak of that young man."

"But, papa,--if he is to be my husband--"

"He is not to be your husband."

"It will be so, papa, though I should be kept here ever so long. That is what I want you to
understand. Having given my word,--and so much more than my word,--I certainly shall not go
back from it. I can understand that you should carry me off here so as to try and wean me from
it--"

"It is quite out of the question; impossible!"

"No, papa. If he choose,--and I choose,--no one can prevent us." As she said this she looked
him full in the face.

"Do you mean to say that you owe no obedience to your parents?"

"To you, papa, of course I owe obedience,--to a certain extent. There does come a time, I suppose,
in which a daughter may use her own judgment as to her own happiness."

"And disgrace all her family?"

"I do not think that I shall disgrace mine. What I want you to understand, papa, is this,--that
you will not ensure my obedience by keeping me here. I think I should be more likely to be
submissive at home. There is an idea in enforced control which is hardly compatible with obedience.
I don't suppose you will lock me up."

"You have no right to talk to me in that way."

"I want to explain that our being here can do no good. When you are gone mamma and I will only
be very unhappy together. She won't talk to me, and will look at me as though I were a poor
lost creature. I don't think that I am a lost creature at all, but I shall be just as much
lost here as though I were at home in England."

"When you come to talking you are as bad as your brother," said the Marquis as he left her.
Only that the expression was considered to be unfit for female ears, he would have accused
her of "talking the hind legs off a dog."

When he was gone the life at Königsgraaf became very sombre indeed. Mr. George Roden's name
was never mentioned by either of the ladies. There was the Post Office, no doubt, and the Post
Office was at first left open to her; but there soon came a time in which she was deprived
of this consolation. With such a guardian as the Marchioness, it was not likely that free correspondence
should be left open to her.

CHAPTER V.

MRS. RODEN.

George Roden, the Post Office clerk, lived with his mother at Holloway, about three miles from
his office. There they occupied a small house which had been taken when their means were smaller
even than at present;--for this had been done before the young man had made his way into the
official elysium of St. Martin's-le-Grand. This had been effected about five years since, during
which time he had risen to an income of £170. As his mother had means of her own amounting
to about double as much, and as her personal expenses were small, they were enabled to live
in comfort. She was a lady of whom none around knew anything, but there had gone abroad a rumour
among her neighbours that there was something of a mystery attached to her, and there existed
a prevailing feeling that she was at any rate a well-born lady. Few people at Holloway knew
either her or her son. But there were some who condescended to watch them, and to talk about
them. It was ascertained that Mrs. Roden usually went to church on Sunday morning, but that
her son never did so. It was known, too, that a female friend called upon her regularly once
a week; and it was noted in the annals of Holloway that this female friend came always at three
o'clock on a Monday. Intelligent observers had become aware that the return visit was made
in the course of the week, but not always made on one certain day;--from which circumstances
various surmises arose as to the means, whereabouts, and character of the visitor. Mrs. Roden
always went in a cab. The lady, whose name was soon known to be Mrs. Vincent, came in a brougham,
which for a time was supposed to be her own peculiar property. The man who drove it was so
well arrayed as to hat, cravat, and coat, as to leave an impression that he must be a private
servant; but one feminine observer, keener than others, saw the man on an unfortunate day descend
from his box at a public-house, and knew at once that the trousers were the trousers of a hired
driver from a livery-stable. Nevertheless it was manifest that Mrs. Vincent was better to do
in the world than Mrs. Roden, because she could afford to hire a would-be private carriage;
and it was imagined also that she was a lady accustomed to remain at home of an afternoon,
probably with the object of receiving visitors, because Mrs. Roden made her visits indifferently
on Thursday, Friday, or Saturday. It was suggested also that Mrs. Vincent was no friend to
the young clerk, because it was well known that he was never there when the lady came, and
it was supposed that he never accompanied his mother on the return visits. He had, indeed,
on one occasion been seen to get out of the cab with his mother at their own door, but it was
strongly surmised that she had then picked him up at the Post Office. His official engagements
might, indeed, have accounted for all this naturally; but the ladies of Holloway were well
aware that the humanity of the Postmaster-General allowed a Saturday half-holiday to his otherwise
overworked officials, and they were sure that so good a son as George Roden would occasionally
have accompanied his mother, had there been no especial reason against it. From this further
surmises arose. Some glance had fallen from the eye of the visitor lady, or perhaps some chance
word had been heard from her lips, which created an opinion that she was religious. She probably
objected to George Roden because he was anti-religious, or at any rate anti-church, meeting,
or chapel-going. It had become quite decided at Holloway that Mrs. Vincent would not put up
with the young clerk's infidelity. And it was believed that there had been "words" between
the two ladies themselves on the subject of religion,--as to which probably there was no valid
foundation, it being an ascertained fact that the two maids who were employed by Mrs. Roden
were never known to tell anything of their mistress.

It was decided at Holloway that Mrs. Roden and Mrs. Vincent were cousins. They were like enough
in face and near enough in age to have been sisters; but old Mrs. Demijohn, of No. 10, Paradise
Row, had declared that had George been a nephew his aunt would not have wearied in her endeavour
to convert him. In such a case there would have been intimacy in spite of disapproval. But
a first cousin once removed might be allowed to go to the Mischief in his own way. Mrs. Vincent
was supposed to be the elder cousin,--perhaps three or four years the elder,--and to have therefore
something of an authority, but not much. She was stouter, too, less careful to hide what grey
hairs years might have produced, and showing manifestly by the nature of her bonnets and shawls
that she despised the vanities of the world. Not but that she was always handsomely dressed,
as Mrs. Demijohn was very well aware. Less than a hundred a year could not have clothed Mrs.
Vincent, whereas Mrs. Roden, as all the world perceived, did not spend half the money. But
who does not know that a lady may repudiate vanity in rich silks and cultivate the world in
woollen stuffs, or even in calico? Nothing was more certain to Mrs. Demijohn than that Mrs.
Vincent was severe, and that Mrs. Roden was soft and gentle. It was assumed also that the two
ladies were widows, as no husband or sign of a husband had appeared on the scene. Mrs. Vincent
showed manifestly from her deportment, as well as from her title, that she had been a married
woman. As to Mrs. Roden, of course, there was no doubt.

In regard to all this the reader may take the settled opinions of Mrs. Demijohn and of Holloway
as being nearly true. Riddles may be read very accurately by those who will give sufficient
attention and ample time to the reading of them. They who will devote twelve hours a day to
the unravelling of acrostics, may discover nearly all the enigmas of a weekly newspaper with
a separate editor for such difficulties. Mrs. Demijohn had almost arrived at the facts. The
two ladies were second cousins. Mrs. Vincent was a widow, was religious, was austere, was fairly
well off, and had quarrelled altogether with her distant relative George of the Post Office.
Mrs. Roden, though she went to church, was not so well given to religious observances as her
cousin would have her. Hence words had come which Mrs. Roden had borne with equanimity, but
had received without effect. Nevertheless the two women loved each other dearly, and it was
a great part of the life of each of them that these weekly visits should be made. There was
one great fact, as to which Mrs. Demijohn and Holloway were in the wrong. Mrs. Roden was not
a widow.

It was not till the Kingsburys had left London that George told his mother of his engagement.
She was well acquainted with his intimacy with Lord Hampstead, and knew that he had been staying
at Hendon Hall with the Kingsbury family. There had been no reticence between the mother and
son as to these people, in regard to whom she had frequently cautioned him that there was danger
in such associations with people moving altogether in a different sphere. In answer to this
the son had always declared that he did not see the danger. He had not run after Lord Hampstead.
Circumstances had thrown them together. They had originally met each other in a small political
debating society, and gradually friendship had grown. The lord had sought him, and not he the
lord. That, according to his own idea, had been right. Difference in rank, difference in wealth,
difference in social regard required as much as that. He, when he had discovered who was the
young man whom he had met, stood off somewhat, and allowed the friendship to spring from the
other side. He had been slow to accept favour,--even at first to accept hospitality. But whenever
the ice had, as he said, been thoroughly broken, then he thought that there was no reason why
they should not pull each other out of the cold water together. As for danger, what was there
to fear? The Marchioness would not like it? Very probably. The Marchioness was not very much
to Hampstead, and was nothing at all to him. The Marquis would not really like it. Perhaps
not. But in choosing a friend a young man is not supposed to follow altogether his father's
likings,--much less need the chosen friend follow them. But the Marquis, as George pointed
out to his mother, was hardly more like other marquises than the son was like other marquis's
sons. There was a Radical strain in the family, as was made clear by that tailor who was still
sitting for the borough of Edgeware. Mrs. Roden, however, though she lived so much alone, seeing
hardly anything of the world except as Mrs. Vincent might be supposed to represent the world,
had learned that the feelings and political convictions of the Marquis were hardly what they
had been before he had married his present wife. "You may be sure, George," she had said, "that
like to like is as safe a motto for friendship as it is for love."

"Not a doubt, mother," he replied; "but before you act upon it you must define 'like.' What
makes two men like--or a man and a woman?"

"Outside circumstances of the world more than anything else," she answered, boldly.

"I would fancy that the inside circumstances of the mind would have more to do with it." She
shook her head at him, pleasantly, softly, and lovingly,--but still with a settled purpose
of contradiction. "I have admitted all along," he continued, "that low birth--"

"I have said nothing of low birth!" Here was a point on which there did not exist full confidence
between the mother and son, but in regard to which the mother was always attempting to reassure
the son, while he would assume something against himself which she would not allow to pass
without an attempt of faint denial.

"That birth low by comparison," he continued, going on with his sentence, "should not take
upon itself as much as may be allowed to nobility by descent is certain. Though the young prince
may be superior in his gifts to the young shoeblack, and would best show his princeliness by
cultivating the shoeblack, still the shoeblack should wait to be cultivated. The world has
created a state of things in which the shoeblack cannot do otherwise without showing an arrogance
and impudence by which he could achieve nothing."

"Which, too, would make him black his shoes very badly."

"No doubt. That will have to come to pass any way, because the nobler employments to which
he will be raised by the appreciating prince will cause him to drop his shoes."

"Is Lord Hampstead to cause you to drop the Post Office?"

"Not at all. He is not a prince nor am I a shoeblack. Though we are far apart, we are not so
far apart as to make such a change essential to our acquaintance. But I was saying-- I don't
know what I was saying."

"You were defining what 'like' means. But people always get muddled when they attempt definitions,"
said the mother.

"Though it depends somewhat on externals, it has more to do with internals. That is what I
mean. A man and woman might live together with most enduring love, though one had been noble
and wealthy and the other poor and a nobody. But a thorough brute and a human being of fine
conditions can hardly live together and love each other."

"That is true," she said. "That I fear is true."

"I hope it is true."

"It has often to be tried, generally to the great detriment of the better nature."

All this, however, had been said before George Roden had spoken a word to Lady Frances, and
had referred only to the friendship as it was growing between her son and the young lord.

The young lord had come on various occasions to the house at Holloway, and had there made himself
thoroughly pleasant to his friend's mother. Lord Hampstead had a way of making himself pleasant
in which he never failed when he chose to exercise it. And he did exercise it almost always,--always,
indeed, unless he was driven to be courteously disagreeable by opposition to his own peculiar
opinion. In shooting, fishing, and other occupations not approved of, he would fall into a
line of argument, seemingly and indeed truly good-humoured, which was apt, however, to be aggravating
to his opponent. In this way he would make himself thoroughly odious to his stepmother, with
whom he had not one sentiment in common. In other respects his manners were invariably sweet,
with an assumption of intimacy which was not unbecoming; and thus he had greatly recommended
himself to Mrs. Roden. Who does not know the fashion in which the normal young man conducts
himself when he is making a morning call? He has come there because he means to be civil. He
would not be there unless he wished to make himself popular. He is carrying out some recognized
purpose of society. He would fain be agreeable if it were possible. He would enjoy the moment
if he could. But it is clearly his conviction that he is bound to get through a certain amount
of altogether uninteresting conversation, and then to get himself out of the room with as little
awkwardness as may be. Unless there be a pretty girl, and chance favour him with her special
companionship, he does not for a moment suppose that any social pleasure is to be enjoyed.
That rational amusement can be got out of talking to Mrs. Jones does not enter into his mind.
And yet Mrs. Jones is probably a fair specimen of that general society in which every one wishes
to mingle. Society is to him generally made up of several parts, each of which is a pain, though
the total is deemed to be desirable. The pretty girl episode is no doubt an exception,--though
that also has its pains when matter for conversation does not come readily, or when conversation,
coming too readily, is rebuked. The morning call may be regarded as a period of unmitigated
agony. Now it has to be asserted on Lord Hampstead's behalf that he could talk with almost
any Mrs. Jones freely and pleasantly while he remained, and take his departure without that
dislocating struggle which is too common. He would make himself at ease, and discourse as though
he had known the lady all his life. There is nothing which a woman likes so much as this, and
by doing this Lord Hampstead had done much, if not to overcome, at any rate to quiet the sense
of danger of which Mrs. Roden had spoken.

But this refers to a time in which nothing was known at Holloway as to Lady Frances. Very little
had been said of the family between the mother and son. Of the Marquis George Roden had wished
to think well, but had hardly succeeded. Of the stepmother he had never even wished to do so.
She had from the first been known to him as a woman thoroughly wedded to aristocratic prejudices,--who
regarded herself as endowed with certain privileges which made her altogether superior to other
human beings. Hampstead himself could not even pretend to respect her. Of her Roden had said
very little to his mother, simply speaking of her as the Marchioness, who was in no way related
to Hampstead. Of Lady Frances he had simply said that there was a girl there endowed with such
a spirit, that of all girls of her class she must surely be the best and noblest. Then his
mother had shuddered inwardly, thinking that here too there might be possible danger; but she
had shrunk from speaking of the special danger even to her son.

"How has the visit gone?" Mrs. Roden asked, when her son had already been some hours in the
house. This was after that last visit to Hendon Hall, in which Lady Frances had promised to
become his wife.

"Pretty well, taking it altogether."

"I know that something has disappointed you."

"No, indeed, nothing. I have been somewhat abashed."

"What have they said to you?" she asked.

"Very little but what was kind,--just one word at the last."

"Something, I know, has hurt you," said the mother.

"Lady Kingsbury has made me aware that she dislikes me thoroughly. It is very odd how one person
can do that to another almost without a word spoken."

"I told you, George, that there would be danger in going there."

"There would be no danger in that if there were nothing more."

"What more is there then?"

"There would be no danger in that if Lady Kingsbury was simply Hampstead's stepmother."

"What more is she?"

"She is stepmother also to Lady Frances. Oh, mother!"

"George, what has happened?" she asked.

"I have asked Lady Frances to be my wife."

"Your wife?"

"And she has promised."

"Oh, George!"

"Yes, indeed, mother. Now you can perceive that she indeed may be a danger. When I think of
the power of tormenting her stepdaughter which may rest in her hands I can hardly forgive myself
for doing as I have done."

"And the Marquis?" asked the mother.

"I know nothing as yet as to what his feelings may be. I have had no opportunity of speaking
to him since the little occurrence took place. A word escaped me, an unthought-of word, which
her ladyship overheard, and for which she rebuked me. Then I left the house."

"What word?"

"Just a common word of greeting, a word that would be common among dear friends, but which,
coming from me to her, told all the story. I forgot the prefix which was due from such a one
as I am to such as she is. I can understand with what horror I must henceforward be regarded
by Lady Kingsbury."

"What will the Marquis say?"

"I shall be a horror to him also,--an unutterable horror. The idea of contact so vile will
cure him at once of all his little Radical longings."

"And Hampstead?"

"Nothing, I think, can cure Hampstead of his convictions;--but even he is not well pleased."

"Has he quarrelled with you?"

"No, not that. He is too noble to quarrel on such offence. He is too noble even to take offence
on such a cause. But he refuses to believe that good will come of it. And you, mother?"

"Oh, George, I doubt, I doubt."

"You will not congratulate me?"

"What am I to say? I fear more than I can hope."

"When I tell you that she is noble at all points, noble in heart, noble in beauty, noble in
that dignity which a woman should always carry with her, that she is as sweet a creature as
God ever created to bless a man with, will you not then congratulate me?"

"I would her birth were other than it is," said the mother.

"I would have her altered in nothing," said the son. "Her birth is the smallest thing about
her, but such as she is I would have her altered in nothing."

CHAPTER VI.

PARADISE ROW.

About a fortnight after George Roden's return to Holloway,--a fortnight passed by the mother
in meditation as to her son's glorious but dangerous love,--Lord Hampstead called at No. 11,
Paradise Row. Mrs. Roden lived at No. 11, and Mrs. Demijohn lived at No. 10, the house opposite.
There had already been some discussion in Holloway about Lord Hampstead, but nothing had as
yet been discovered. He might have been at the house on various previous occasions, but had
come in so unpretending a manner as hardly to have done more than to cause himself to be regarded
as a stranger in Holloway. He was known to be George's friend, because he had been first seen
coming with George on a Saturday afternoon. He had also called on a Sunday and walked away,
down the Row, with George. Mrs. Demijohn concluded that he was a brother clerk in the Post
Office, and had expressed an opinion that "it did not signify," meaning thereby to imply that
Holloway need not interest itself about the stranger. A young Government clerk would naturally
have another young Government clerk for his friend. Twice Lord Hampstead had come down in an
omnibus from Islington; on which occasion it was remarked that as he did not come on Saturday
there must be something wrong. A clerk, with Saturday half-holidays, ought not to be away from
his work on Mondays and Tuesdays. Mrs. Duffer, who was regarded in Paradise Row as being very
inferior to Mrs. Demijohn, suggested that the young man might, perhaps, not be a Post Office
clerk. This, however, was ridiculed. Where should a Post Office clerk find his friends except
among Post Office clerks? "Perhaps he is coming after the widow," suggested Mrs. Duffer. But
this also was received with dissent. Mrs. Demijohn declared that Post Office clerks knew better
than to marry widows with no more than two or three hundred a year, and old enough to be their
mothers. "But why does he come on a Tuesday?" asked Mrs. Duffer; "and why does he come alone?"
"Oh you dear old Mrs. Duffer!" said Clara Demijohn, the old lady's niece, naturally thinking
that it might not be unnatural that handsome young men should come to Paradise Row.

All this, however, had been as nothing to what occurred in the Row on the occasion which is
now about to be described.

"Aunt Jemima," exclaimed Clara Demijohn, looking out of the window, "there's that young man
come again to Number Eleven, riding on horseback, with a groom behind to hold him!"

"Groom to hold him!" exclaimed Mrs. Demijohn, jumping, with all her rheumatism, quickly from
her seat, and trotting to the window.

"You look if there aint,--with boots and breeches."

"It must be another," said Mrs. Demijohn, after a pause, during which she had been looking
intently at the empty saddle of the horse which the groom was leading slowly up and down the Row.

"It's the same that came with young Roden that Saturday," said Clara; "only he hadn't been
walking, and he looked nicer than ever."

"You can hire them all, horses and groom," said Mrs. Demijohn; "but he'd never make his money
last till the end of the month if he went on in that way."

"They aint hired. They're his own," said Clara.

"How do you know, Miss?"

"By the colour of his boots, and the way he touched his hat, and because his gloves are clean.
He aint a Post Office clerk at all, Aunt Jemima."

"I wonder whether he can be coming after the widow," said Mrs. Demijohn. After this Clara escaped
out of the room, leaving her aunt fixed at the window. Such a sight as that groom and those
two horses moving up and down together had never been seen in the Row before. Clara put on
her hat and ran across hurriedly to Mrs. Duffer, who lived at No. 15, next door but one to
Mrs. Roden. But she was altogether too late to communicate the news as news.

"I knew he wasn't a Post Office clerk," said Mrs. Duffer, who had seen Lord Hampstead ride
up the street; "but who he is, or why, or wherefore, it is beyond me to conjecture. But I never
will give up my opinion again, talking to your aunt. I suppose she holds out still that he's
a Post Office clerk."

"She thinks he might have hired them."

"Oh my! Hired them!"

"But did you ever see anything so noble as the way he got off his horse? As for hire, that's
nonsense. He's been getting off that horse every day of his life." Thus it was that Paradise
Row was awe-stricken by this last coming of George Roden's friend.

It was an odd thing to do,--this riding down to Holloway. No one else would have done it, either
lord or Post Office clerk;--with a hired horse or with private property. There was a hot July
sunshine, and the roads across from Hendon Hall consisted chiefly of paved streets. But Lord
Hampstead always did things as others would not do them. It was too far to walk in the midday
sun, and therefore he rode. There would be no servant at Mrs. Roden's house to hold his horse,
and therefore he brought one of his own. He did not see why a man on horseback should attract
more attention at Holloway than at Hyde Park Corner. Had he guessed the effect which he and
his horse would have had in Paradise Row he would have come by some other means.

Mrs. Roden at first received him with considerable embarrassment,--which he probably observed,
but in speaking to her seemed not to observe. "Very hot, indeed," he said;--"too hot for riding,
as I found soon after I started. I suppose George has given up walking for the present."

"He still walks home, I think."

"If he had declared his purpose of doing so, he'd go on though he had sunstroke every afternoon."

"I hope he is not so obstinate as that, my lord."

"The most obstinate fellow I ever knew in my life! Though the world were to come to an end,
he'd let it come rather than change his purpose. It's all very well for a man to keep his purpose,
but he may overdo it."

"Has he been very determined lately in anything?"

"No;--nothing particular. I haven't seen him for the last week. I want him to come over and
dine with me at Hendon one of these days. I'm all alone there." From this Mrs. Roden learnt
that Lord Hampstead at any rate did not intend to quarrel with her son, and she learnt also
that Lady Frances was no longer staying at the Hall. "I can send him home," continued the lord,
"if he can manage to come down by the railway or the omnibus."

"I will give him your message, my lord."

"Tell him I start on the 21st. My yacht is at Cowes, and I shall go down there on that morning.
I shall be away Heaven knows how long;--probably for a month. Vivian will be with me, and we
mean to bask away our time in the Norway and Iceland seas, till he goes, like an idiot that
he is, to his grouse-shooting. I should like to see George before I start. I said that I was
all alone; but Vivian will be with me. George has met him before, and as they didn't cut each
other's throats then I suppose they won't now."

"I will tell him all that," said Mrs. Roden.

Then there was a pause for a moment, after which Lord Hampstead went on in an altered voice.
"Has he said anything to you since he was at Hendon;--as to my family, I mean?"

"He has told me something."

"I was sure he had. I should not have asked unless I had been quite sure. I know that he would
tell you anything of that kind. Well?"

"What am I to say, Lord Hampstead?"

"What has he told you, Mrs. Roden?"

"He has spoken to me of your sister."

"But what has he said?"

"That he loves her."

"And that she loves him?"

"That he hopes so."

"He has said more than that, I take it. They have engaged themselves to each other."

"So I understand."

"What do you think of it, Mrs. Roden?"

"What can I think of it, Lord Hampstead? I hardly dare to think of it at all."

"Was it wise?"

"I suppose where love is concerned wisdom is not much considered."

"But people have to consider it. I hardly know how to think of it. To my idea it was not wise.
And yet there is no one living whom I esteem so much as your son."

"You are very good, my lord."

"There is no goodness in it,--any more than in his liking for me. But I can indulge my fancy
without doing harm to others. Lady Kingsbury thinks that I am an idiot because I do not live
exclusively with counts and countesses; but in declining to take her advice I do not injure
her much. She can talk about me and my infatuations among her friends with a smile. She will
not be tortured by any feeling of disgrace. So with my father. He has an idea that I am out-Heroding
Herod, he having been Herod;--but there is nothing bitter in it to him. Those fine young gentlemen,
my brothers, who are the dearest little chicks in the world, five and six and seven years old,
will be able to laugh pleasantly at their elder brother when they grow up, as they will do,
among the other idle young swells of the nation. That their brother and George Roden should
be always together will not even vex them. They may probably receive some benefit themselves,
may achieve some diminution of the folly natural to their position, by their advantage in knowing
him. In looking at it all round, as far as that goes, there is not only satisfaction to me,
but a certain pride. I am doing no more than I have a right to do. Whatever counter-influence
I may introduce among my own people, will be good and wholesome. Do you understand me, Mrs. Roden?"

"I think so;--very clearly. I should be dull, if I did not."

"But it becomes different when one's sister is concerned. I am thinking of the happiness of
other people."

"She, I suppose, will think of her own."

"Not exclusively, I hope."

"No; not that I am sure. But a girl, when she loves--"

"Yes; that is all true. But a girl situated like Frances is bound not to,--not to sacrifice
those with whom Fame and Fortune have connected her. I can speak plainly to you, Mrs. Roden,
because you know what are my own opinions about many things."

"George has no sister, no girl belonging to him; but if he had, and you loved her, would you
abstain from marrying her lest you should sacrifice your--connections?"

"The word has offended you?"

"Not in the least. It is a word true to the purpose in hand. I understand the sacrifice you
mean. Lady Kingsbury's feelings would be--sacrificed were her daughter,--even her stepdaughter,--to
become my boy's husband. She supposes that her girl's birth is superior to my boy's."

"There are so many meanings to that word 'birth.'"

"I will take it all as you mean, Lord Hampstead, and will not be offended. My boy, as he is,
is no match for your sister. Both Lord and Lady Kingsbury would think that there had been--a
sacrifice. It might be that those little lords would not in future years be wont to talk at
their club of their brother-in-law, the Post Office clerk, as they would of some earl or some
duke with whom they might have become connected. Let us pass it by, and acknowledge that there
would be--a sacrifice. So there will be should you marry below your degree. The sacrifice would
be greater because it would be carried on to some future Marquis of Kingsbury. Would you practise
such self-denial as that you demand from your sister?"

Lord Hampstead considered the matter a while, and then answered the question. "I do not think
that the two cases would be quite analogous."

"Where is the difference?"

"There is something more delicate, more nice, requiring greater caution in the conduct of a
girl than of a man."

"Quite so, Lord Hampstead. Where conduct is in question, the girl is bound to submit to stricter
laws. I may explain that by saying that the girl is lost for ever who gives herself up to unlawful
love,--whereas, for the man, the way back to the world's respect is only too easy, even should
he, on that score, have lost aught of the world's respect. The same law runs through every
act of a girl's life, as contrasted with the acts of men. But in this act,--the act now supposed
of marrying a gentleman whom she loves,--your sister would do nothing which should exclude
her from the respect of good men or the society of well-ordered ladies. I do not say that the
marriage would be well-assorted. I do not recommend it. Though my boy's heart is dearer to
me than anything else can be in the world, I can see that it may be fit that his heart should
be made to suffer. But when you talk of the sacrifice which he and your sister are called on
to make, so that others should be delivered from lesser sacrifices, I think you should ask
what duty would require from yourself. I do not think she would sacrifice the noble blood of
the Traffords more effectually than you would by a similar marriage." As she thus spoke she
leant forward from her chair on the table, and looked him full in the face. And he felt, as
she did so, that she was singularly handsome, greatly gifted, a woman noble to the eye and
to the ear. She was pleading for her son,--and he knew that. But she had condescended to use
no mean argument.

"If you will say that such a law is dominant among your class, and that it is one to which
you would submit yourself, I will not repudiate it. But you shall not induce me to consent
to it, by even a false idea as to the softer delicacy of the sex. That softer delicacy, with
its privileges and duties, shall be made to stand for what it is worth, and to occupy its real
ground. If you use it for other mock purposes, then I will quarrel with you." It was thus that
she had spoken, and he understood it all.

"I am not brought in question," he said slowly.

"Cannot you put it to yourself as though you were brought in question? You will at any rate
admit that my argument is just."

"I hardly know. I must think of it. Such a marriage on my part would not outrage my stepmother,
as would that of my sister."

"Outrage! You speak, Lord Hampstead, as though your mother would think that your sister would
have disgraced herself as a woman!"

"I am speaking of her feelings,--not of mine. It would be different were I to marry in the
same degree."

"Would it? Then I think that perhaps I had better counsel George not to go to Hendon Hall."

"My sister is not there. They are all in Germany."

"He had better not go where your sister will be thought of."

"I would not quarrel with your son for all the world."

"It will be better that you should. Do not suppose that I am pleading for him." That, however,
was what he did suppose, and that was what she was doing. "I have told him already that I think
that the prejudices will be too hard for him, and that he had better give it up before he adds
to his own misery, and perhaps to hers. What I have said has not been in the way of pleading,--but
only as showing the ground on which I think that such a marriage would be inexpedient. It is
not that we, or our sister, are too bad or too low for such contact; but that you, on your
side, are not as yet good enough or high enough."

"I will not dispute that with you, Mrs. Roden. But you will give him my message?"

"Yes; I will give him your message."

Then Lord Hampstead, having spent a full hour in the house, took his departure and rode away.

"Just an hour," said Clara Demijohn, who was still looking out of Mrs. Duffer's window. "What
can they have been talking about?"

"I think he must be making up to the widow," said Mrs. Duffer, who was so lost in surprise
as to be unable to suggest any new idea.

"He'd never have come with saddle horses to do that. She wouldn't be taken by a young man spending
his money in that fashion. She'd like saving ways better. But they're his own horses, and his
own man, and he's no more after the widow than he's after me," said Clara, laughing.

"I wish he were, my dear."

"There may be as good as him come yet, Mrs. Duffer. I don't think so much of their having horses
and grooms. When they have these things they can't afford to have wives too,--and sometimes
they can't afford to pay for either." Then, having seen the last of Lord Hampstead as he rode
out of the Row, she went back to her mother's house.

But Mrs. Demijohn had been making use of her time while Clara and Mrs. Duffer had been wasting
theirs in mere gazing, and making vain surmises. As soon as she found herself alone the old
woman got her bonnet and shawl, and going out slily into the Row, made her way down to the
end of the street in the direction opposite to that in which the groom was at that moment walking
the horses. There she escaped the eyes of her niece and of the neighbours, and was enabled
to wait unseen till the man, in his walking, came down to the spot at which she was standing.
"My young man," she said in her most winning voice, when the groom came near her.

"What is it, Mum?"

"You'd like a glass of beer, wouldn't you;--after walking up and down so long?"

"No, I wouldn't, not just at present." He knew whom he served, and from whom it would become
him to take beer.

"I'd be happy to pay for a pint," said Mrs. Demijohn, fingering a fourpenny bit so that he
might see it.

"Thankye, Mum; no, I takes it reg'lar when I takes it. I'm on dooty just at present."

"Your master's horses, I suppose?"

"Whose else, Mum? His lordship don't ride generally nobody's 'orses but his own."

Here was a success! And the fourpenny bit saved! His lordship! "Of course not," said Mrs. Demijohn.
"Why should he?"

"Why, indeed, Mum?"

"Lord--; Lord--;--Lord who, is he?"

The groom poked up his hat, and scratched his head, and bethought himself. A servant generally
wishes to do what honour he can to his master. This man had no desire to gratify an inquisitive
old woman, but he thought it derogatory to his master and to himself to seem to deny their
joint name. "'Ampstead!" he said, looking down very serenely on the lady, and then moved on,
not wasting another word.

"I knew all along they were something out of the common way," said Mrs. Demijohn as soon as
her niece came in.

"You haven't found out who it is, aunt?"

"You've been with Mrs. Duffer, I suppose. You two'd put your heads together for a week, and
then would know nothing." It was not till quite the last thing at night that she told her secret.
"He was a peer! He was Lord 'Ampstead!"

"A peer!"

"He was Lord 'Ampstead, I tell you," said Mrs. Demijohn.

"I don't believe there is such a lord," said Clara, as she took herself up to bed.

CHAPTER VII.

THE POST OFFICE.

When George Roden came home that evening the matter was discussed between him and his mother
at great length. She was eager with him, if not to abandon his love, at any rate to understand
how impossible it was that he should marry Lady Frances. She was very tender with him, full
of feeling, full of compassion and sympathy; but she was persistent in declaring that no good
could come from such an engagement. But he would not be deterred in the least from his resolution,
nor would he accept it as possible that he should be turned from his object by the wishes of
any person as long as Lady Frances was true to him. "You speak as if daughters were slaves,"
he said.

"So they are. So women must be;--slaves to the conventions of the world. A young woman can
hardly run counter to her family on a question of marriage. She may be persistent enough to
overcome objections, but that will be because the objections themselves are not strong enough
to stand against her. But here the objections will be very strong."

"We will see, mother," he said. She who knew him well perceived that it would be vain to talk
to him further.

"Oh, yes," he said, "I will go out to Hendon, perhaps on Sunday. That Mr. Vivian is a pleasant
fellow, and as Hampstead does not wish to quarrel with me I certainly will not quarrel with him."

Roden was generally popular at his office, and had contrived to make his occupation there pleasant
to himself and interesting; but he had his little troubles, as will happen to most men in all
walks of life. His came to him chiefly from the ill-manners of a fellow-clerk who sat in the
same room with him, and at the same desk. There were five who occupied the apartment, an elderly
gentleman and four youngsters. The elderly gentleman was a quiet, civil, dull old man, who
never made himself disagreeable, and was content to put up with the frivolities of youth, if
they did not become too uproarious or antagonistic to discipline. When they did, he had but
one word of rebuke. "Mr. Crocker, I will not have it." Beyond that he had never been known
to go in the way either of reporting the misconduct of his subordinates to other superior powers,
or in quarrelling with the young men himself. Even with Mr. Crocker, who no doubt was troublesome,
he contrived to maintain terms of outward friendship. His name was Jerningham, and next to
Mr. Jerningham in age came Mr. Crocker, by whose ill-timed witticisms our George Roden was
not unfrequently made to suffer. This had sometimes gone so far that Roden had contemplated
the necessity of desiring Mr. Crocker to assume that a bond of enmity had been established
between them;--or in other words, that they were not "to speak" except on official subjects.
But there had been an air of importance about such a proceeding of which Crocker hardly seemed
to be worthy; and Roden had abstained, putting off the evil hour from day to day, but still
conscious that he must do something to stop vulgarities which were distasteful to him.

The two other young men, Mr. Bobbin and Mr. Geraghty, who sat at a table by themselves and
were the two junior clerks in that branch of the office, were pleasant and good-humoured enough.
They were both young, and as yet not very useful to the Queen. They were apt to come late to
their office, and impatient to leave it when the hour of four drew nigh. There would sometimes
come a storm through the Department, moved by an unseen but powerful and unsatisfied Æolus,
in which Bobbin and Geraghty would be threatened to be blown into infinite space. Minutes would
be written and rumours spread about; punishments would be inflicted, and it would be given
to be understood that now one and then the other would certainly have to return to his disconsolate
family at the very next offence. There was a question at this very moment whether Geraghty,
who had come from the sister island about twelve months since, should not be returned to King's
County. No doubt he had passed the Civil Service examiners with distinguished applause; but
Æolus hated the young Crichtons who came to him with full marks, and had declared that Geraghty,
though no doubt a linguist, a philosopher, and a mathematician, was not worth his salt as a
Post Office clerk. But he, and Bobbin also, were protected by Mr. Jerningham, and were well
liked by George Roden.

That Roden was intimate with Lord Hampstead had become known to his fellow-clerks. The knowledge
of this association acted somewhat to his advantage and somewhat to his injury. His daily companions
could not but feel a reflected honour in their own intimacy with the friend of the eldest son
of a Marquis, and were anxious to stand well with one who lived in such high society. Such
was natural;--but it was natural also that envy should show itself in ridicule, and that the
lord should be thrown in the clerk's teeth when the clerk should be deemed to have given offence.
Crocker, when it first became certain that Roden passed much of his time in company with a
young lord, had been anxious enough to foregather with the fortunate youth who sat opposite
to him; but Roden had not cared much for Crocker's society, and hence it had come to pass that
Crocker had devoted himself to jeers and witticisms. Mr. Jerningham, who in his very soul respected
a Marquis, and felt something of genuine awe for anything that touched the peerage, held his
fortunate junior in unfeigned esteem from the moment in which he became aware of the intimacy.
He did in truth think better of the clerk because the clerk had known how to make himself a
companion to a lord. He did not want anything for himself. He was too old and settled in life
to be desirous of new friendships. He was naturally conscientious, gentle, and unassuming.
But Roden rose in his estimation, and Crocker fell, when he became assured that Roden and Lord
Hampstead were intimate friends, and that Crocker had dared to jeer at the friendship. A lord
is like a new hat. The one on the arm the other on the head are no evidences of mental superiority.
But yet they are taken, and not incorrectly taken, as signs of merit. The increased esteem
shown by Mr. Jerningham for Roden should, I think, be taken as showing Mr. Jerningham's good
sense and general appreciation.

The two lads were both on Roden's side. Roden was not a rose, but he lived with a rose, and
the lads of course liked the scent of roses. They did not particularly like Crocker, though
Crocker had a dash about him which would sometimes win their flattery. Crocker was brave and
impudent and self-assuming. They were not as yet sufficiently advanced in life to be able to
despise Crocker. Crocker imposed upon them. But should there come anything of real warfare
between Crocker and Roden, there could be no doubt but that they would side with Lord Hampstead's
friend. Such was the state of the room at the Post Office when Crocker entered it, on the morning
of Lord Hampstead's visit to Paradise Row.

Crocker was a little late. He was often a little late,--a fact of which Mr. Jerningham ought
to have taken more stringent notice than he did. Perhaps Mr. Jerningham rather feared Crocker.
Crocker had so read Mr. Jerningham's character as to have become aware that his senior was
soft, and perhaps timid. He had so far advanced in this reading as to have learned to think
that he could get the better of Mr. Jerningham by being loud and impudent. He had no doubt
hitherto been successful, but there were those in the office who believed that the day might
come when Mr. Jerningham would rouse himself in his wrath.

"Mr. Crocker, you are late," said Mr. Jerningham.

"Mr. Jerningham, I am late. I scorn false excuses. Geraghty would say that his watch was wrong.
Bobbin would have eaten something that had disagreed with him. Roden would have been detained
by his friend, Lord Hampstead." To this Roden made no reply even by a look. "For me, I have
to acknowledge that I did not turn out when I was called. Of twenty minutes I have deprived
my country; but as my country values so much of my time at only seven-pence-halfpenny, it is
hardly worth saying much about it."

"You are frequently late."

"When the amount has come up to ten pound I will send the Postmaster-General stamps to that
amount." He was now standing at his desk, opposite to Roden, to whom he made a low bow. "Mr.
George Roden," he said, "I hope that his lordship is quite well."

"The only lord with whom I am acquainted is quite well; but I do not know why you should trouble
yourself about him."

"I think it becoming in one who takes the Queen's pay to show a becoming anxiety as to the
Queen's aristocracy. I have the greatest respect for the Marquis of Kingsbury. Have not you,
Mr. Jerningham?"

"Certainly I have. But if you would go to your work instead of talking so much it would be
better for everybody."

"I am at my work already. Do you think that I cannot work and talk at the same time? Bobbin,
my boy, if you would open that window, do you think it would hurt your complexion?" Bobbin
opened the window. "Paddy, where were you last night?" Paddy was Mr. Geraghty.

"I was dining, then, with my sister's mother-in-law."

"What,--the O'Kelly, the great legislator and Home Ruler, whom his country so loves and Parliament
so hates! I don't think any Home Ruler's relative ought to be allowed into the service. Do
you, Mr. Jerningham?"

"I think Mr. Geraghty, if he will only be a little more careful, will do great credit to the
service," said Mr. Jerningham.

"I hope that Æolus may think the same." Æolus was the name by which a certain pundit was known
at the office;--a violent and imperious Secretary, but not in the main ill-natured. "Æolus,
when last I heard of his opinion, seemed to have his doubts about poor Paddy." This was a disagreeable
subject, and it was felt by them all that it might better be left in silence. From that time
the work of the day was continued with no more than moderate interruptions till the hour of
luncheon, when the usual attendant entered with the usual mutton-chops. "I wonder if Lord Hampstead
has mutton-chops for luncheon?" asked Crocker.

"Why should he not?" asked Mr. Jerningham, foolishly.

"There must be some kind of gilded cutlet, upon which the higher members of the aristocracy
regale themselves. I suppose, Roden, you must have seen his lordship at lunch."

"I dare say I have," said Roden, angrily. He knew that he was annoyed, and was angry with himself
at his own annoyance.

"Are they golden or only gilded?" asked Crocker.

"I believe you mean to make yourself disagreeable," said the other.

"Quite the reverse. I mean to make myself agreeable;--only you have soared so high of late
that ordinary conversation has no charms for you. Is there any reason why Lord Hampstead's
lunch should not be mentioned?"

"Certainly there is," said Roden.

"Then, upon my life, I cannot see it. If you talked of my mid-day chop I should not take it amiss."

"I don't think a fellow should ever talk about another fellow's eating unless he knows the
fellow." This came from Bobbin, who intended it well, meaning to fight the battle for Roden
as well as he knew how.

"Most sapient Bobb," said Crocker, "you seem to be unaware that one young fellow, who is Roden,
happens to be the peculiarly intimate friend of the other fellow, who is the Earl of Hampstead.
Therefore the law, as so clearly laid down by yourself, has not been infringed. To return to
our muttons, as the Frenchman says, what sort of lunch does his lordship eat?"

"You are determined to make yourself disagreeable," said Roden.

"I appeal to Mr. Jerningham whether I have said anything unbecoming."

"If you appeal to me, I think you have," said Mr. Jerningham.

"You have, at any rate, been so successful in doing it," continued Roden, "that I must ask
you to hold your tongue about Lord Hampstead. It has not been by anything I have said that
you have heard of my acquaintance with him. The joke is a bad one, and will become vulgar if
repeated."

"Vulgar!" cried Crocker, pushing away his plate, and rising from his chair.

"I mean ungentlemanlike. I don't want to use hard words, but I will not allow myself to be
annoyed."

"Hoity, toity," said Crocker, "here's a row because I made a chance allusion to a noble lord.
I am to be called vulgar because I mentioned his name." Then he began to whistle.

"Mr. Crocker, I will not have it," said Mr. Jerningham, assuming his most angry tone. "You
make more noise in the room than all the others put together."

"Nevertheless, I do wonder what Lord Hampstead has had for his lunch." This was the last shot,
and after that the five gentlemen did in truth settle down to their afternoon's work.

When four o'clock came Mr. Jerningham with praiseworthy punctuality took his hat and departed.
His wife and three unmarried daughters were waiting for him at Islington, and as he was always
in his seat punctually at ten, he was justified in leaving it punctually at four. Crocker swaggered
about the room for a minute or two with his hat on, desirous of showing that he was by no means
affected by the rebukes which he had received. But he, too, soon went, not having summoned
courage to recur to the name of Roden's noble friend. The two lads remained for the sake of
saying a word of comfort to Roden, who still sat writing at his desk. "I thought it was very
low form," said Bobbin; "Crocker going on like that."

"Crocker's a baist," said Geraghty.

"What was it to him what anybody eats for his lunch?" continued Bobbin.

"Only he likes to have a nobleman's name in his mouth," said Geraghty. "I think it's the hoighth
of bad manners talking about anybody's friends unless you happen to know them yourself."

"I think it is," said Roden, looking up from his desk. "But I'll tell you what shows worse
manners;--that is, a desire to annoy anybody. Crocker likes to be funny, and he thinks there
is no fun so good as what he calls taking a rise. I don't know that I'm very fond of Crocker,
but it may be as well that we should all think no more about it." Upon this the young men promised
that they, at least, would think no more about it, and then took their departure. George Roden
soon followed them, for it was not the practice of anybody in that department to remain at
work long after four o'clock.

Roden as he walked home did think more of the little affair than it deserved,--more at least
than he would acknowledge that it deserved. He was angry with himself for bearing it in mind,
and yet he did bear it in mind. Could it be that a creature so insignificant as Crocker could
annoy him by a mere word or two? But he was annoyed, and did not know how such annoyance could
be made to cease. If the man would continue to talk about Lord Hampstead there was nothing
by which he could be made to hold his tongue. He could not be kicked, or beaten, or turned
out of the room. For any purpose of real assistance Mr. Jerningham was useless. As to complaining
to the Æolus of the office that a certain clerk would talk about Lord Hampstead, that of course
was out of the question. He had already used strong language, calling the man vulgar and ungentlemanlike,
but if a man does not regard strong language what further can an angry victim do to him?

Then his thoughts passed on to his connexion with the Marquis of Kingsbury's family generally.
Had he not done wrong, at any rate, done foolishly, in thus moving himself out of his own sphere?
At the present moment Lady Frances was nearer to him even than Lord Hampstead,--was more important
to him and more in his thoughts. Was it not certain that he would give rise to misery rather
than to happiness by what had occurred between him and Lady Frances? Was it not probable that
he had embittered for her all the life of the lady whom he loved? He had assumed an assured
face and a confident smile while declaring to his mother that no power on earth should stand
between him and his promised wife,--that she would be able to walk out from her father's hall
and marry him as certainly as might the housemaid or the ploughman's daughter go to her lover.
But what would be achieved by that if she were to walk out only to encounter misery? The country
was so constituted that he and these Traffords were in truth of a different race; as much so
as the negro is different from the white man. The Post Office clerk may, indeed, possibly become
a Duke; whereas the negro's skin cannot be washed white. But while he and Lady Frances were
as they were, the distance between them was so great that no approach could be made between
them without disruption. The world might be wrong in this. To his thinking the world was wrong.
But while the facts existed they were too strong to be set aside. He could do his duty to the
world by struggling to propagate his own opinions, so that the distance might be a little lessened
in his own time. He was sure that the distance was being lessened, and with this he thought
that he ought to have been contented. The jeering of such a one as Crocker was unimportant
though disagreeable, but it sufficed to show the feeling. Such a friendship as his with Lord
Hampstead had appeared to Crocker to be ridiculous. Crocker would not have seen the absurdity
unless others had seen it also. Even his own mother saw it. Here in England it was accounted
so foolish a thing that he, a Post Office clerk, should be hand and glove with such a one as
Lord Hampstead, that even a Crocker could raise a laugh against him! What would the world say
when it should have become known that he intended to lead Lady Frances to the "hymeneal altar?"
As he repeated the words to himself there was something ridiculous even to himself in the idea
that the hymeneal altar should ever be mentioned in reference to the adventures of such a person
as George Roden, the Post Office clerk. Thinking of all this, he was not in a happy frame of
mind when he reached his home in Paradise Row.

CHAPTER VIII.

MR. GREENWOOD.

Roden spent a pleasant evening with his friend and his friend's friend at Hendon Hall before
their departure for the yacht,--during which not a word was said or an allusion made to Lady
Frances. The day was Sunday, July 20th. The weather was very hot, and the two young men were
delighted at the idea of getting away to the cool breezes of the Northern Seas. Vivian also
was a clerk in the public service, but he was a clerk very far removed in his position from
that filled by George Roden. He was attached to the Foreign Office, and was Junior Private
Secretary to Lord Persiflage, who was Secretary of State at that moment. Lord Persiflage and
our Marquis had married sisters. Vivian was distantly related to the two ladies, and hence
the young men had become friends. As Lord Hampstead and Roden had been drawn together by similarity
of opinion, so had Lord Hampstead and Vivian by the reverse. Hampstead could always produce
Vivian in proof that he was not, in truth, opposed to his own order. Vivian was one who proclaimed
his great liking for things as he found them. It was a thousand pities that any one should
be hungry; but, for himself, he liked truffles, ortolans, and all good things. If there was
any injustice in the world he was not responsible. And if there was any injustice he had not
been the gainer, seeing that he was a younger brother. To him all Hampstead's theories were
sheer rhodomontade. There was the world, and men had got to live in it as best they might.
He intended to do so, and as he liked yachting and liked grouse-shooting, he was very glad
to have arranged with Lord Persiflage and his brother Private Secretary, so as to be able to
get out of town for the next two months. He was member of half-a-dozen clubs, could always
go to his brother's country house if nothing more inviting offered, dined out in London four
or five days a week, and considered himself a thoroughly useful member of society in that he
condescended to write letters for Lord Persiflage. He was pleasant in his manners to all men,
and had accommodated himself to Roden as well as though Roden's office had also been in Downing
Street instead of the City.

"Yes, grouse," he said, after dinner. "If anything better can be invented I'll go and do it.
American bears are a myth. You may get one in three years, and, as far as I can hear, very
poor fun it is when you get it. Lions are a grind. Elephants are as big as a hay-stack. Pig-sticking
may be very well, but you've got to go to India, and if you're a poor Foreign Office clerk
you haven't got either the time or the money."

"You speak as though killing something were a necessity," said Roden.

"So it is, unless somebody can invent something better. I hate races, where a fellow has nothing
to do with himself when he can't afford to bet. I don't mean to take to cards for the next
ten years. I have never been up in a balloon. Spooning is good fun, but it comes to an end
so soon one way or another. Girls are so wide-awake that they won't spoon for nothing. Upon
the whole I don't see what a fellow is to do unless he kills something."

"You won't have much to kill on board the yacht," said Roden.

"Fishing without end in Iceland and Norway! I knew a man who killed a ton of trout out of an
Iceland lake. He had to pack himself up very closely in tight-fitting nets, or the midges would
have eaten him. And the skin came off his nose and ears from the sun. But he liked that rather
than not, and he killed his ton of trout."

"Who weighed them?" asked Hampstead.

"How well you may know a Utilitarian by the nature of his questions! If a man doesn't kill
his ton all out, he can say he did, which is the next best thing to it."

"Are you taking close-packing nets with you?" Roden asked.

"Well, no. Hampstead would be too impatient. And the Free Trader isn't big enough to bring
away the fish. But I don't mind betting a sovereign that I kill something every day I'm out,--barring
Sundays."

Not a word was said about Lady Frances, although there were a few moments in which Roden and
Lord Hampstead were alone together. Roden had made up his mind that he would ask no questions
unless the subject were mentioned, and did not even allude to any of the family; but he learnt
in the course of the evening that the Marquis had come back from Germany with the intention
of attending to his Parliamentary duties during the remainder of the Session.

"He's going to turn us all out," said Vivian, "on the County Franchise, I suppose."

"I'm afraid my father is not so keen about County Franchise as he used to be, though I hope
he will be one of the few to support it in the House of Lords if the House of Commons ever
dares to pass it."

In this way Roden learnt that the Marquis, who had carried his daughter off to Saxony as soon
as he had heard of the engagement, had left his charge there and had returned to London. As
he went home that evening he thought that it would be his duty to go to Lord Kingsbury, and
tell him, as from himself, that which the father had as yet only learnt from his daughter or
from his wife. He was aware that it behoves a man when he has won a girl's heart to go to the
father and ask permission to carry on his suit. This duty he thought he was bound to perform,
even though the father were a person so high and mighty as the Marquis of Kingsbury. Hitherto
any such going was out of his power. The Marquis had heard the tidings, and had immediately
caught his daughter up and carried her off to Germany. It would have been possible to write
to him, but Roden had thought that not in such a way should such a duty be performed. Now the
Marquis had come back to London; and though the operation would be painful the duty seemed
to be paramount. On the next day he informed Mr. Jerningham that private business of importance
would take him to the West End, and asked leave to absent himself. The morning had been passed
in the room at the Post Office with more than ordinary silence. Crocker had been collecting
himself for an attack, but his courage had hitherto failed him. As Roden put on his hat and
opened the door he fired a parting shot. "Remember me kindly to Lord Hampstead," he said; "and
tell him I hope he enjoyed his cutlets."

Roden stood for a moment with the door in his hand, thinking that he would turn upon the man
and rebuke his insolence, but at last determined that it would be best to hold his peace.

He went direct to Park Lane, thinking that he would probably find the Marquis before he left
the house after his luncheon. He had never been before at the town mansion which was known
as Kingsbury House, and which possessed all the appanages of grandeur which can be given to
a London residence. As he knocked at the door he acknowledged that he was struck with a certain
awe of which he was ashamed. Having said so much to the daughter, surely he should not be afraid
to speak to the father! But he felt that he could have managed the matter much better had he
contrived to have the interview at Hendon Hall, which was much less grand than Kingsbury House.
Almost as soon as he knocked the door was opened, and he found himself with a powdered footman
as well as the porter. The powdered footman did not know whether or no "my lord" was at home.
He would inquire. Would the gentleman sit down for a minute or two? The gentleman did sit down,
and waited for what seemed to him to be more than half-an-hour. The house must be very large
indeed if it took the man all this time to look for the Marquis. He was beginning to think
in what way he might best make his escape,--as a man is apt to think when delays of this kind
prove too long for the patience,--but the man returned, and with a cold unfriendly air bade
Roden to follow him. Roden was quite sure that some evil was to happen, so cold and unfriendly
was the manner of the man; but still he followed, having now no means of escape. The man had
not said that the Marquis would see him, had not even given any intimation that the Marquis
was in the house. It was as though he were being led away to execution for having had the impertinence
to knock at the door. But still he followed. He was taken along a passage on the ground floor,
past numerous doors, to what must have been the back of the house, and there was shown into
a somewhat dingy room that was altogether surrounded by books. There he saw an old gentleman;--but
the old gentleman was not the Marquis of Kingsbury.

"Ah, eh, oh," said the old gentleman. "You, I believe, are Mr. George Roden."

"That is my name. I had hoped to see Lord Kingsbury."

"Lord Kingsbury has thought it best for all parties that,--that,--that,--I should see you.
That is, if anybody should see you. My name is Greenwood;--the Rev. Mr. Greenwood. I am his
lordship's chaplain, and, if I may presume to say so, his most attached and sincere friend.
I have had the honour of a very long connexion with his lordship, and have therefore been entrusted
by him with this,--this,--this delicate duty, I had perhaps better call it." Mr. Greenwood
was a stout, short man, about sixty years of age, with pendant cheeks, and pendant chin, with
a few grey hairs brushed carefully over his head, with a good forehead and well-fashioned nose,
who must have been good-looking when he was young, but that he was too short for manly beauty.
Now, in advanced years, he had become lethargic and averse to exercise; and having grown to
be corpulent he had lost whatever he had possessed in height by becoming broad, and looked
to be a fat dwarf. Still there would have been something pleasant in his face but for an air
of doubt and hesitation which seemed almost to betray cowardice. At the present moment he stood
in the middle of the room rubbing his hands together, and almost trembling as he explained
to George Roden who he was.

"I had certainly wished to see his lordship himself," said Roden.

"The Marquis has thought it better not, and I must say that I agree with the Marquis." At the
moment Roden hardly knew how to go on with the business in hand. "I believe I am justified
in assuring you that anything you would have said to the Marquis you may say to me."

"Am I to understand that Lord Kingsbury refuses to see me?"

"Well;--yes. At the present crisis he does refuse. What can be gained?"

Roden did not as yet know how far he might go in mentioning the name of Lady Frances to the
clergyman, but was unwilling to leave the house without some reference to the business he had
in hand. He was peculiarly averse to leaving an impression that he was afraid to mention what
he had done. "I had to speak to his lordship about his daughter," he said.

"I know; I know; Lady Frances! I have known Lady Frances since she was a little child. I have
the warmest regard for Lady Frances,--as I have also for Lord Hampstead,--and for the Marchioness,
and for her three dear little boys, Lord Frederic, Lord Augustus, and Lord Gregory. I feel
a natural hesitation in calling them my friends because I think that the difference in rank
and station which it has pleased the Lord to institute should be maintained with all their
privileges and all their honours. Though I have agreed with the Marquis through a long life
in those political tenets by propagating which he has been ever anxious to improve the condition
of the lower classes, I am not and have not been on that account less anxious to uphold by
any small means which may be in my power those variations in rank, to which, I think, in conjunction
with the Protestant religion, the welfare and high standing of this country are mainly to be
attributed. Having these feelings at my heart very strongly I do not wish, particularly on
such an occasion as this, to seem by even a chance word to diminish the respect which I feel
to be due to all the members of a family of a rank so exalted as that which belongs to the
family of the Marquis of Kingsbury. Putting that aside for a moment, I perhaps may venture
on this occasion, having had confided to me a task so delicate as the present, to declare my
warm friendship for all who bear the honoured name of Trafford. I am at any rate entitled to
declare myself so far a friend, that you may say anything on this delicate subject which you
would think it necessary to say to the young lady's father. However inexpedient it may be that
anything should be said at all, I have been instructed by his lordship to hear,--and to reply."

George Roden, while he was listening to this tedious sermon, was standing opposite to the preacher
with his hat in his hand, having not yet had accorded to him the favour of a seat. During the
preaching of the sermon the preacher had never ceased to shiver and shake, rubbing one fat
little clammy hand slowly over the other, and apparently afraid to look his audience in the
face. It seemed to Roden as though the words must have been learnt by heart, they came so glibly,
with so much of unction and of earnestness, and were in their glibness so strongly opposed
to the man's manner. There had not been a single word spoken that had not been offensive to
Roden. It seemed to him that they had been chosen because of their offence. In all those long-winded
sentences about rank in which Mr. Greenwood had expressed his own humility and insufficiency
for the position of friend in a family so exalted he had manifestly intended to signify the
much more manifest insufficiency of his hearer to fill a place of higher honour even than that
of friend. Had the words come at the spur of the moment, the man must, thought Roden, have
great gifts for extempore preaching. He had thought the time in the hall to be long, but it
had not been much for the communication of the Earl's wishes, and then for the preparation
of all these words. It was necessary, however, that he must make his reply without any preparation.

"I have come," he said, "to tell Lord Kingsbury that I am in love with his daughter." At hearing
this the fat little man held up both his hands in amazement,--although he had already made
it clear that he was acquainted with all the circumstances. "And I should have been bound to
add," said Roden, plucking up all his courage, "that the young lady is also in love with me."

"Oh,--oh,--oh!" The hands went higher and higher as these interjections were made.

"Why not? Is not the truth the best?"

"A young man, Mr. Roden, should never boast of a young lady's affection,--particularly of such
a young lady;--particularly when I cannot admit that it exists;--particularly not in her father's
house."

"Nobody should boast of anything, Mr. Greenwood. I speak of a fact which it is necessary that
a father should know. If the lady denies the assertion I have done."

"It is a matter in which delicacy demands that no question shall be put to the young lady.
After what has occurred, it is out of the question that your name should even be mentioned
in the young lady's hearing."

"Why?--I mean to marry her."

"Mean!"--this word was shouted in the extremity of Mr. Greenwood's horror. "Mr. Roden, it is
my duty to assure you that under no circumstances can you ever see the young lady again."

"Who says so?"

"The Marquis says so,--and the Marchioness,--and her little brothers, who with their growing
strength will protect her from all harm."

"I hope their growing strength may not be wanted for any such purpose. Should it be so I am
sure they will not be deficient as brothers. At present there could not be much for them to
do." Mr. Greenwood shook his head. He was still standing, not having moved an inch from the
position in which he had been placed when the door was opened. "I can understand, Mr. Greenwood,
that any further conversation on the subject between you and me must be quite useless."

"Quite useless," said Mr. Greenwood.

"But it has been necessary for my honour, and for my purpose, that Lord Kingsbury should know
that I had come to ask him for his daughter's hand. I had not dared to expect that he would
accept my proposal graciously."

"No, no; hardly that, Mr. Roden."

"But it was necessary that he should know my purpose from myself. He will now, no doubt, do
so. He is, as I understand you, aware of my presence in the house." Mr. Greenwood shook his
head, as though he would say that this was a matter he could not any longer discuss. "If not,
I must trouble his lordship with a letter."

"That will be unnecessary."

"He does know." Mr. Greenwood nodded his head. "And you will tell him why I have come?"

"The Marquis shall be made acquainted with the nature of the interview."

Roden then turned to leave the room, but was obliged to ask Mr. Greenwood to show him the way
along the passages. This the clergyman did, tripping on, ahead, upon his toes, till he had
delivered the intruder over to the hall porter. Having done so, he made as it were a valedictory
bow, and tripped back to his own apartment. Then Roden left the house, thinking as he did so
that there was certainly much to be done before he could be received there as a welcome son-in-law.

As he made his way back to Holloway he again considered it all. How could there be an end to
this,--an end that would be satisfactory to himself and to the girl that he loved? The aversion
expressed to him through the person of Mr. Greenwood was natural. It could not but be expected
that such a one as the Marquis of Kingsbury should endeavour to keep his daughter out of the
hands of such a suitor. If it were only in regard to money would it not be necessary for him
to do so? Every possible barricade would be built up in his way. There would be nothing on
his side except the girl's love for himself. Was it to be expected that her love would have
power to conquer such obstacles as these? And if it were, would she obtain her own happiness
by clinging to it? He was aware that in his present position no duty was so incumbent on him
as that of looking to the happiness of the woman whom he wished to make his wife.

CHAPTER IX.

AT KÖNIGSGRAAF.

Very shortly after this there came a letter from Lady Frances to Paradise Row,--the only letter
which Roden received from her during this period of his courtship. A portion of the letter
shall be given, from which the reader will see that difficulties had arisen at Königsgraaf
as to their correspondence. He had written twice. The first letter had in due course reached
the young lady's hands, having been brought up from the village post-office in the usual manner,
and delivered to her without remark by her own maid. When the second reached the Castle it
fell into the hands of the Marchioness. She had, indeed, taken steps that it should fall into
her hands. She was aware that the first letter had come, and had been shocked at the idea of
such a correspondence. She had received no direct authority from her husband on the subject,
but felt that it was incumbent on herself to take strong steps. It must not be that Lady Frances
should receive love-letters from a Post Office clerk! As regarded Lady Frances herself, the
Marchioness would have been willing enough that the girl should be given over to a letter-carrier,
if she could be thus got rid of altogether,--so that the world should not know that there was
or had been a Lady Frances. But the fact was patent,--as was also that too, too-sad truth of
the existence of a brother older than her own comely bairns. As the feeling of hatred grew
upon her, she continually declared to herself that she would have been as gentle a stepmother
as ever loved another woman's children, had these two known how to bear themselves like the
son and daughter of a Marquis. Seeing what they were,--and what were her own children,--how
these struggled to repudiate that rank which her own were born to adorn and protect, was it
not natural that she should hate them, and profess that she should wish them to be out of the
way? They could not be made to get out of the way, but Lady Frances might at any rate be repressed.
Therefore she determined to stop the correspondence.

She did stop the second letter,--and told her daughter that she had done so.

"Papa didn't say I wasn't to have my letters," pleaded Lady Frances.

"Your papa did not suppose for a moment that you would submit to anything so indecent."

"It is not indecent."

"I shall make myself the judge of that. You are now in my care. Your papa can do as he likes
when he comes back." There was a long altercation, but it ended in victory on the part of the
Marchioness. The young lady, when she was told that, if necessary, the postmistress in the
village should be instructed not to send on any letter addressed to George Roden, believed
in the potency of the threat. She felt sure also that she would be unable to get at any letters
addressed to herself if the quasi-parental authority of the Marchioness were used to prevent
it. She yielded, on the condition, however, that one letter should be sent; and the Marchioness,
not at all thinking that her own instructions would have prevailed with the post-mistress,
yielded so far.

The tenderness of the letter readers can appreciate and understand without seeing it expressed
in words. It was very tender, full of promises, and full of trust. Then came the short passage
in which her own uncomfortable position was explained;--"You will understand that there has
come one letter which I have not been allowed to see. Whether mamma has opened it I do not
know, or whether she has destroyed it. Though I have not seen it, I take it as an assurance
of your goodness and truth. But it will be useless for you to write more till you hear from
me again; and I have promised that this, for the present, shall be my last to you. The last
and the first! I hope you will keep it till you have another, in order that you may have something
to tell you how well I love you." As she sent it from her she did not know how much of solace
there was even in the writing of a letter to him she loved, nor had she as yet felt how great
was the torment of remaining without palpable notice from him she loved.

After the episode of the letter life at Königsgraaf was very bitter and very dull. But few
words were spoken between the Marchioness and her stepdaughter, and those were never friendly
in their tone or kindly in their nature. Even the children were taken out of their sister's
way as much as possible, so that their morals should not be corrupted by evil communication.
When she complained of this to their mother the Marchioness merely drew herself up and was
silent. Were it possible she would have altogether separated her darlings from contact with
their sister, not because she thought that the darlings would in truth be injured,--as to which
she had no fears at all, seeing that the darlings were subject to her own influences,--but
in order that the punishment to Lady Frances might be the more complete. The circumstances
being such as they were, there should be no family love, no fraternal sports, no softnesses,
no mercy. There must, she thought, have come from the blood of that first wife a stain of impurity
which had made her children altogether unfit for the rank to which they had unfortunately been
born. This iniquity on the part of Lady Frances, this disgrace which made her absolutely tremble
as she thought of it, this abominable affection for an inferior creature, acerbated her feelings
even against Lord Hampstead. The two were altogether so base as to make her think that they
could not be intended by Divine Providence to stand permanently in the way of the glory of
the family. Something certainly would happen. It would turn out that they were not truly the
legitimate children of a real Marchioness. Some beautiful scheme of romance would discover
itself to save her and her darlings, and all the Traffords and all the Montressors from the
terrible abomination with which they were threatened by these interlopers. The idea dwelt in
her mind till it became an almost fixed conviction that Lord Frederic would live to become
Lord Hampstead,--or probably Lord Highgate, as there was a third title in the family, and the
name of Hampstead must for a time be held to have been disgraced,--and in due course of happy
time Marquis of Kingsbury. Hitherto she had been accustomed to speak to her own babies of their
elder brother with something of that respect which was due to the future head of the family;
but in these days she altered her tone when they spoke to her of Jack, as they would call him,
and she, from herself, never mentioned his name to them. "Is Fanny naughty?" Lord Frederic
asked one day. To this she made no reply. "Is Fanny very naughty?" the boy persisted in asking.
To this she nodded her head solemnly. "What has Fanny done, mamma?" At this she shook her head
mysteriously. It may, therefore, be understood that poor Lady Frances was sadly in want of
comfort during the sojourn at Königsgraaf.

About the end of August the Marquis returned. He had hung on in London till the very last days
of the Session had been enjoyed, and had then pretended that his presence had been absolutely
required at Trafford Park. To Trafford Park he went, and had spent ten miserable days alone.
Mr. Greenwood had indeed gone with him; but the Marquis was a man who was miserable unless
surrounded by the comforts of his family, and he led Mr. Greenwood such a life that that worthy
clergyman was very happy when he was left altogether in solitude by his noble friend. Then,
in compliance with the promise which he had absolutely made, and aware that it was his duty
to look after his wicked daughter, the Marquis returned to Königsgraaf. Lady Frances was to
him at this period of his life a cause of unmitigated trouble. It must not be supposed that
his feelings were in any way akin to those of the Marchioness as to either of his elder children.
Both of them were very dear to him, and of both of them he was in some degree proud. They were
handsome, noble-looking, clever, and to himself thoroughly well-behaved. He had seen what trouble
other elder sons could give their fathers, what demands were made for increased allowances,
what disreputable pursuits were sometimes followed, what quarrels there were, what differences,
what want of affection and want of respect! He was wise enough to have perceived all this,
and to be aware that he was in some respects singularly blest. Hampstead never asked him for
a shilling. He was a liberal man, and would willingly have given many shillings. But still
there was a comfort in having a son who was quite contented in having his own income. No doubt
a time would come when those little lords would want shillings. And Lady Frances had always
been particularly soft to him, diffusing over his life a sweet taste of the memory of his first
wife. Of the present Marchioness he was fond enough, and was aware how much she did for him
to support his position. But he was conscious ever of a prior existence in which there had
been higher thoughts, grander feelings, and aspirations which were now wanting to him. Of these
something would come back in the moments which he spent with his daughter; and in this way
she was very dear to him. But now there had come a trouble which robbed his life of all its
sweetness. He must go back to the grandeur of his wife and reject the tenderness of his daughter.
During these days at Trafford he made himself very unpleasant to the devoted friend who had
always been so true to his interests.

When the battle about the correspondence was explained to him by his wife, it, of course, became
necessary to him to give his orders to his daughter. Such a matter could hardly be passed over
in silence,--though he probably might have done so had he not been instigated to action by
the Marchioness.

"Fanny," he said, "I have been shocked by these letters."

"I only wrote one, papa."

"Well, one. But two came."

"I only had one, papa."

"That made two. But there should have been no letter at all. Do you think it proper that a
young lady should correspond with,--with,--a gentleman in opposition to the wishes of her father
and mother?"

"I don't know, papa."

This seemed to him so weak that the Marquis took heart of grace, and made the oration which
he felt that he as a father was bound to utter upon the entire question. For, after all, it
was not the letters which were of importance, but the resolute feeling which had given birth
to the letters. "My dear, this is a most unfortunate affair." He paused for a reply; but Lady
Frances felt that the assertion was one to which at the present moment she could make no reply.
"It is, you know, quite out of the question that you should marry a young man so altogether
unfitted for you in point of station as this young man."

"But I shall, papa."

"Fanny, you can do no such thing."

"I certainly shall. It may be a very long time first; but I certainly shall,--unless I die."

"It is wicked of you, my dear, to talk of dying in that way."

"What I mean is, that however long I may live I shall consider myself engaged to Mr. Roden."

"He has behaved very, very badly. He has made his way into my house under a false pretence."

"He came as Hampstead's friend."

"It was very foolish of Hampstead to bring him,--very foolish,--a Post Office clerk."

"Mr. Vivian is a clerk in the Foreign Office. Why shouldn't one office be the same as another?"

"They are very different;--but Mr. Vivian wouldn't think of such a thing. He understands the
nature of things, and knows his own position. There is a conceit about the other man."

"A man should be conceited, papa. Nobody will think well of him unless he thinks well of himself."

"He came to me in Park Lane."

"What! Mr. Roden?"

"Yes; he came. But I didn't see him. Mr. Greenwood saw him."

"What could Mr. Greenwood say to him?"

"Mr. Greenwood could tell him to leave the house,--and he did so. There was nothing more to
tell him. Now, my dear, let there be no more about it. If you will put on your hat, we will
go out and walk down to the village."

To this Lady Frances gave a ready assent. She was not at all disposed to quarrel with her father,
or to take in bad part what he had said about her lover. She had not expected that things would
go very easily. She had promised to herself constancy and final success; but she had not expected
that in her case the course of true love could be made to run smooth. She was quite willing
to return to a condition of good humour with her father, and,--not exactly to drop her lover
for the moment,--but so to conduct herself as though he were not paramount in her thoughts.
The cruelty of her stepmother had so weighed upon her that she found it to be quite a luxury
to be allowed to walk with her father.

"I don't know that anything can be done," the Marquis said a few days afterwards to his wife.
"It is one of those misfortunes which do happen now and again!"

"That such a one as your daughter should give herself up to a clerk in the Post Office!"

"What's the use of repeating that so often? I don't know that the Post Office is worse than
anything else. Of course it can't be allowed;--and having said so, the best thing will be to
go on just as though nothing had happened."

"And let her do just what she pleases?"

"Who's going to let her do anything? She said she wouldn't write, and she hasn't written. We
must just take her back to Trafford, and let her forget him as soon as she can."

The Marchioness was by no means satisfied, though she did not know what measure of special
severity to recommend. There was once a time,--a very good time, as Lady Kingsbury thought
now,--in which a young lady could be locked up in a convent, or perhaps in a prison, or absolutely
forced to marry some suitor whom her parents should find for her. But those comfortable days
were past. In a prison Lady Frances was detained now; but it was a prison of which the Marchioness
was forced to make herself the gaoler, and in which her darlings were made to be fellow-prisoners
with their wicked sister. She herself was anxious to get back to Trafford and the comforts
of her own home. The beauties of Königsgraaf were not lovely to her in her present frame of
mind. But how would it be if Lady Frances should jump out of the window at Trafford and run
away with George Roden? The windows at Königsgraaf were certainly much higher than those at
Trafford.

They had made up their mind to return early in September, and the excitement of packing up
had almost commenced among them when Lord Hampstead suddenly appeared on the scene. He had
had enough of yachting, and had grown tired of books and gardening at Hendon. Something must
be done before the hunting began, and so, without notice, he appeared one day at Königsgraaf.
This was to the intense delight of his brothers, over whose doings he assumed a power which
their mother was unable to withstand. They were made to gallop on ponies on which they had
only walked before; they were bathed in the river, and taken to the top of the Castle, and
shut up in the dungeon after a fashion which was within the reach of no one but Hampstead.
Jack was Jack, and all was delight, as far as the children were concerned; but the Marchioness
was not so well pleased with the arrival. A few days after his coming a conversation arose
as to Lady Frances which Lady Kingsbury would have avoided had it been possible, but it was
forced upon her by her stepson.

"I don't think that Fanny ought to be bullied," said her stepson.

"Hampstead, I wish you would understand that I do not understand strong language."

"Teased, tormented, and made wretched."

"If she be wretched she has brought it on herself."

"But she is not to be treated as though she had disgraced herself."

"She has disgraced herself."

"I deny it. I will not hear such a word said of her even by you." The Marchioness drew herself
up as though she had been insulted. "If there is to be such a feeling about her in your house
I must ask my father to have her removed, and I will make a home for her. I will not see her
broken-hearted by cruel treatment. I am sure that he would not wish it."

"You have no right to speak to me in this manner."

"I surely have a right to protect my sister, and I will exercise it."

"You have brought most improperly a young man into the house--"

"I have brought into the house a young man whom I am proud to call my friend."

"And now you mean to assist him in destroying your sister."

"You are very wrong to say so. They both know, Roden and my sister also, that I disapprove
of this marriage. If Fanny were with me I should not think it right to ask Roden into the house.
They would both understand that. But it does not follow that she should be cruelly used."

"No one has been cruel to her but she herself."

"It is easy enough to perceive what is going on. It will be much better that Fanny should remain
with the family; but you may be sure of this,--that I will not see her tortured." Then he took
himself off, and on the next day he had left Königsgraaf. It may be understood that the Marchioness
was not reconciled to her radical stepson by such language as he had used to her. About a week
afterwards the whole family returned to England and to Trafford.

CHAPTER X.

"NOBLESSE OBLIGE."

"I quite agree," said Hampstead, endeavouring to discuss the matter rationally with his sister,
"that her ladyship should not be allowed to torment you."

"She does torment me. You cannot perceive what my life was at Königsgraaf! There is a kind
of usage which would drive any girl to run away,--or to drown herself. I don't suppose a man
can know what it is always to be frowned at. A man has his own friends, and can go anywhere.
His spirits are not broken by being isolated. He would not even see half the things which a
girl is made to feel. The very servants were encouraged to treat me badly. The boys were not
allowed to come near me. I never heard a word that was not intended to be severe."

"I am sure it was bad."

"And it was not made better by the conviction that she has never cared for me. It is to suffer
all the authority, but to enjoy none of the love of a mother. When papa came of course it was
better; but even papa cannot make her change her ways. A man is comparatively so very little
in the house. If it goes on it will drive me mad."

"Of course I'll stand to you."

"Oh, John, I am sure you will."

"But it isn't altogether easy to know how to set about it. If we were to keep house together
at Hendon--" As he made this proposition a look of joy came over her face, and shone amidst
her tears. "There would, of course, be a difficulty."

"What difficulty?" She, however, knew well what would be the difficulty.

"George Roden would be too near to us."

"I should never see him unless you approved."

"I should not approve. That would be the difficulty. He would argue the matter with me, and
I should have to tell him that I could not let him come to the house, except with my father's
leave. That would be out of the question. And therefore, as I say, there would be a difficulty."

"I would never see him,--except with your sanction,--nor write to him,--nor receive letters
from him. You are not to suppose that I would give him up. I shall never do that. I shall go
on and wait. When a girl has once brought herself to tell a man that she loves him, according
to my idea she cannot give him up. There are things which cannot be changed. I could have lived
very well without thinking of him had I not encouraged myself to love him. But I have done
that, and now he must be everything to me."

"I am sorry that it should be so."

"It is so. But if you will take me to Hendon I will never see him till I have papa's leave.
It is my duty to obey him,--but not her."

"I am not quite clear about that."

"She has rejected me as a daughter, and therefore I reject her as a mother. She would get rid
of us both if she could."

"You should not attribute to her any such thoughts."

"If you saw her as often as I do you would know. She hates you almost as much as me,--though
she cannot show it so easily."

"That she should hate my theories I can easily understand."

"You stand in her way."

"Of course I do. It is natural that a woman should wish to have the best for her own children.
I have sometimes myself felt it to be a pity that Frederic should have an elder brother. Think
what a gallant young Marquis he would make, while I am altogether out of my element."

"That is nonsense, John."

"I ought to have been a tailor. Tailors, I think, are generally the most ill-conditioned, sceptical,
and patriotic of men. Bluff the answer is this unfastened. There being the communicator on region same,
favor. He indicate the vicissitude of the, the metric of nonaccomplishment. Fractional will yield
flood, question will be bind to i state statement. I appear the accompaniment as the shipway
of Care. Dr. Ryerson. He write me belonged, June, 1856:--. Spencer has yield me detect that,
i have deny of status upon i had been metal-acknowledge into Symposium, when my repute arrive down
in quality, it will be travel re-admitting. I am sad of the. It yield activity, inquiring.
To-tomorrow category-caucus come down, by clergyman, connexion, Subject.

I at formerly take the situation repeat my opinion, he say the case should be fix to they were
establish on Canon, Protestant, Improvement, Howe, case. What i to be favorably by substance.
I believe coterie (and coterie) will be disappointed that concern arrive down. I experience i sit.
I would that my spirit were less thither with Fact, the generalization of
i. The 9th of June, he write as follows:--, agnomen, Rate.

Joule. Borland, Rpm.

Tungsten. Jeffers, document:-- decide, Dr. Stead, him belonged to his a digest in Symposium
establish; hence, metal-admittance, soon, rescinded. When the quality, he detect no inquiring,
to foreigner to. I greatly, i state that as near as i was concerned, announcement had been yield
to me of document, of what had look in-- that i had been belie in professed of what had occupy grave,
i necessitate, non-discrimination, Meeting should be private as far as i was concerned. To describe.
I at length travel an Meeting should be private as ne'er as i was concerned. The was follow by
number, though voted against coterie. Maine. My buddy, Rate. Alpha-tocopheral. Forest, Rate. Roentgen.
Jones, Dr. ripe, as others, say what was said, merely what i had
say and mean; and member, Title.

Spencer and others. His allusion to me by minority. Kind maligning me look i to be make by fifteen
or twenty-- the less than i had say. I have the uncertainty will be overcome by bulk. A dissolution,
i care to ad-lib; i say the Iodine was willing to yield my ambusher
the argument and charge and unnoticed until Weekday.

A individual were future, cracker. My dueler have themselves in place i have want to them, them. Application,
i have accept to prophesy to-day, me.

I experience as if Superior would assist climax, inappropriateness; he wish appendage. Dr. Humiliation.
Rpm. Joule. Borland. Main, July, argument state:--. Borland talk in he was disrupt by Rate. Dr.
Bentwood, Presidency, who make the contract, he give no confidence, stead. Ryerson; that he have
no certainty him; that Dr. Ryerson, League, him. He reiterate, Rate.
Letter.

Spencer, Defender, rhenium-asseverate of self-assurance. Colorado-delegate, Rate. Joule. Ryerson,
Dr. Ryerson, he was certain Symposium would inquire to do so, ne'er. The rent:--. Ryerson has
been the heartily. He has not deny having make coating rhenium-matriculation, hush. The declaration of
Meeting, in 1854, take his defeatism heartily admit his yesteryear, and, in 1855, rhenium-entrance,
ill pass him, and were inhibit by Preserver. Unfair. [145] a Caucus, announcement yield him said.
[146] he express that property in defense. I think the Savior is the Paradigm-caucus, the foundation
of penitence, apophatism, sanctity. I can have no soul, romanism, the magnitude of handout are the mho,
inculcated, on same. He yield the member, some contract or hope to brand; would be accountable
to a restriction of Religion, and digest her belonged in status, or not at all. While he is
sign to that had been state as Collection-caucus, the information on he had urge and them; today,
he except, ladyship, Title. Wesley, they arise and who know their Religion, they are always, substantive,
establishment. Of main, decision, him state:-- we compliment Dr. We should regard, i could be bind
to agnomen. He is one of devoted, conscientious, facility. Adps, he has construct for memorial,
Sphere. He is the still record-breaker of precious nothing. May those who for hold be confounded
and feeling! After allusion, Dr. Ryerson, of his note, he was fix to fact. He state: herewith
after accompaniment to i have instantly, instrument through Law-makers, which except from academy in
functionary, and which would have except any father Marquis Handbook. What was my juncture?
Why, today put my Polity than such collection. Consequence was the
Authorities authorise the Nullity, and do its Fantan.***** the discussion,
greatly.

Hurlburt, as acknowledge by whose Dr. Ryerson, as understand by League. Correction was surpass
by minority, merely 23 out of 150 associate do show choice. FOOTNOTES: [143] Dr. League, to confabulate
him with Bureaucracy. While he write to me wish at missive postdate:--
Title.

Lawyer-specific Iodine have been name honorary. Mister. Macdonald back my testimonial. His Excellence
name you said intentionally according to my advice, you will be gazetted on Noddle has yield me
said really of i exit i have the reservation but that you will do wholly in mode, the worst.
You, usherette.

[144] these Title. Spencer (hitherto Anthologist Admonisher) and Dr. Ryerson. Thirteen maturity.
Ryerson, Title. Spencer was suggest, in 1842, campaigner. Dr. Ryerson, Conn., bridgehead. He did
merely. But i said.

He was really, Dr. Ryerson. He write to wish text (in 1842) as follows:-- you were no statement
i make to you say, that you think they were greatly, motivation.

If thus, you are misidentify. He yesterday, powerfully. You ignore no condition under which, petition,
i travel to Body, position, congenial, was seek by me. Appointment,
authority, i show condemnation. Nowadays, Man, i see disrespect. Had
i go before Committee, quality, you were hitherto, thither would
have been a suggestion, precaution, infliction.

But i am a issuer put; its curiosity are tight with Protestant of i
am hither, to stay, associate.

I think i supply lesser work in labor to boom.

I swear i have formerly
a soul, Body, to stay ill if my class were not conducive to its ratio.
But what is a preparation? "why, we care you belonged, engineering, you
said for case, and ill we disregard with properness.

But document is its invariant.

I mean, chance, the amply to you is personally upon topic." In encyclical in contention, Dr. To drama.
He state: in detail.

Spencer, i am cognizant toward me during period; simply since he neglect to Immunochemistry, for
which he had give of readying. I think he has impute of letdown to
me, and that i had not move toward him in idiom, nomination, i could
have done from relation.

Information, i urge his nomination, attempt, advice was not agree
in areopagite, Dr. unripe cousins. [145] Dr. Ryerson, allocution, failure,
him state:-- Meeting surpass a cousins towards myself, and expressive
and enthusiasm of Node.

Ne'er been pass to me said
to time; Mister.

Spencer inhibit this work of it in Preserver, the mind of number
to myself. [146] to this continue, dr. As postdate:-- how did my opposition
convey down their maine? Did they inform experience, action?

No try, Man; the plaintiff obeys many responsibility, hecatomb, Body;
and, present, this person of Methodistic, arraign, him. Is that Protestantism?
Is the Protestantism? If these, my ambusher, think, they state, of
curiosity of Religion will be today by ejection, so to prevent them
do it on rule.

Honorably, i was amply cognizant that they were fight to me said
prior, i think, i was present, they handle me, least, therefore. If
i had done incorrect, them impeach me take assay, me fix for offence.
The would be the class-- those would be Protestantism; and i had
perpetrate the operation, complaint could be bring against me, why
to search to offense?

Is not former elective, generalization, whether old young?


"I will not hear you, Hampstead; not a word. You can persuade your father, I dare say, but
you cannot persuade me. Fanny has divorced herself from my heart for ever."

"I am sorry for that."

"And I'm bound to say that you are doing the same. It is better in some cases to be plain."

"Oh--certainly; but not to be irrational."

"I am not irrational, and it is most improper for you to speak to me in that way."

"Well, good-bye. I have no doubt it will come right some of these days," said Hampstead, as
he took his leave. Then he carried his sister off to Hendon.

Previous to this there had been a great deal of unpleasantness in the house. From the moment
in which Lady Kingsbury had heard that her stepdaughter was to go to her brother she had refused
even to speak to the unfortunate girl. As far as it was possible she put her husband also into
Coventry. She held daily consultations with Mr. Greenwood, and spent most of her hours in embracing,
coddling, and spoiling those three unfortunate young noblemen who were being so cruelly injured
by their brother and sister. One of her keenest pangs was in seeing how boisterously the three
bairns romped with "Jack" even after she had dismissed him from her own good graces as utterly
unworthy of her regard. That night he positively brought Lord Gregory down into the drawing-room
in his night-shirt, having dragged the little urchin out of his cot,--as one might do who was
on peculiar terms of friendship with the mother. Lord Gregory was in Elysium, but the mother
tore the child from the sinner's arms, and carried him back in anger to the nursery.

"Nothing does children so much good as disturbing them in their sleep," said Lord Hampstead,
turning to his father; but the anger of the Marchioness was too serious a thing to allow of a joke.

"From this time forth for evermore she is no child of mine," said Lady Kingsbury the next morning
to her husband, as soon as the carriage had taken the two sinners away from the door.

"It is very wrong to say that. She is your child, and must be your child."

"I have divorced her from my heart;--and also Lord Hampstead. How can it be otherwise, when
they are both in rebellion against me? Now there will be this disgraceful marriage. Would you
wish that I should receive the Post Office clerk here as my son-in-law?"

"There won't be any disgraceful marriage," said the Marquis. "At least, what I mean is, that
it will be much less likely at Hendon than here."

"Less likely than here! Here it would have been impossible. There they will be all together."

"No such thing," said the Marquis. "Hampstead will see to that. And she too has promised me."

"Pshaw!" exclaimed the Marchioness.

"I won't have you say Pshaw to me when I tell you. Fanny always has kept her word to me, and
I don't in the least doubt her. Had she remained here your treatment would have induced her
to run away with him at the first word."

"Lord Kingsbury," said the offended lady, "I have always done my duty by the children of your
first marriage as a mother should do. I have found them to be violent, and altogether unaware
of the duties which their position should impose upon them. It was only yesterday that Lord
Hampstead presumed to call me irrational. I have borne a great deal from them, and can bear
no more. I wish you would have found some one better able to control their conduct." Then,
with a stately step, she stalked out of the room. Under these circumstances, the house was
not comfortable to any of the inhabitants.

As soon as her ladyship had reached her own apartments after this rough interview she seated
herself at the table, and commenced a letter to her sister, Lady Persiflage, in which she proceeded
to give a detailed account of all her troubles and sufferings. Lady Persiflage, who was by
a year or two the younger of the two, filled a higher position in society than that of the
Marchioness herself. She was the wife only of an Earl; but the Earl was a Knight of the Garter,
Lord Lieutenant of his County, and at the present moment Secretary of State for the Home Department.
The Marquis had risen to no such honours as these. Lord Persiflage was a peculiar man. Nobody
quite knew of what his great gifts consisted. But it was acknowledged of him that he was an
astute diplomat; that the honour of England was safe in his hands; and that no more perfect
courtier ever gave advice to a well-satisfied sovereign. He was beautiful to look at, with
his soft grey hair, his bright eyes, and well-cut features. He was much of a dandy, and, though
he was known to be nearer seventy than sixty years of age, he maintained an appearance of almost
green juvenility. Active he was not, nor learned, nor eloquent. But he knew how to hold his
own, and had held it for many years. He had married his wife when she was very young, and she
had become, first a distinguished beauty, and then a leader of fashion. Her sister, our Marchioness,
had been past thirty when she married, and had never been quite so much in the world's eye
as her sister, Lady Persiflage. And Lady Persiflage was the mother of her husband's heir. The
young Lord Hautboy, her eldest son, was now just of age. Lady Kingsbury looked upon him as
all that the heir to an earldom ought to be. His mother, too, was proud of him, for he was
beautiful as a young Phoebus. The Earl, his father, was not always as well pleased, because
his son had already achieved a knack of spending money. The Persiflage estates were somewhat
encumbered, and there seemed to be a probability that Lord Hautboy might create further trouble.
Such was the family to whom collectively the Marchioness looked for support in her unhappiness.
The letter which she wrote to her sister on the present occasion was as follows;--

   Trafford Park,
   Saturday, October 25th.

   MY DEAR GERALDINE,--

   I take up my pen to write to you with a heart laden with
   trouble. Things have become so bad with me that I do not
   know where to turn myself unless you can give me comfort.
   I am beginning to feel how terrible it is to have
   undertaken the position of mother to another person's
   children. God knows I have endeavoured to do my duty. But
   it has all been in vain. Everything is over now. I have
   divided myself for ever from Hampstead and from Fanny. I
   have felt myself compelled to tell their father that I
   have divorced them from my heart; and I have told Lord
   Hampstead the same. You will understand how terrible must
   have been the occasion when I found myself compelled to
   take such a step as this.

   You know how dreadfully shocked I was when she first
   revealed to me the fact that she had promised to marry
   that Post Office clerk. The young man had actually the
   impudence to call on Lord Kingsbury in London, to offer
   himself as a son-in-law. Kingsbury very properly would
   not see him, but instructed Mr. Greenwood to do so. Mr.
   Greenwood has behaved very well in the matter, and is a
   great comfort to me. I hope we may be able to do something
   for him some day. A viler or more ill-conditioned young
   man he says that he never saw;--insolent, too, and talking
   as though he had as much right to ask for Fanny's hand as
   though he were one of the same class. As for that, she
   would deserve nothing better than to be married to such a
   man, were it not that all the world would know how closely
   she is connected with my own darling boys!

   Then we took her off to Königsgraaf; and such a time as
   I had with her! She would write letters to this wretch,
   and contrived to receive one. I did stop that, but you
   cannot conceive what a life she led me. Of course I have
   felt from the first that she would be divided from her
   brothers, because one never knows how early bad morals may
   be inculcated! Then her papa came, and Hampstead,--who in
   all this has encouraged his sister. The young man is his
   friend. After this who will say that any nobleman ought to
   call himself what they call a Liberal? Then we came home;
   and what do you think has happened? Hampstead has taken
   his sister to live with him at Hendon, next door, as you
   may say, to the Post Office clerk, where the young man
   has made himself thoroughly at home;--and Kingsbury has
   permitted it! Oh, Geraldine, that is the worst of it! Am I
   not justified in declaring that I have divorced them from
   my heart?

   You can hardly feel as I do, you, whose son fills so well
   that position which an eldest son ought to fill! Here
   am I with my darlings, not only under a shade, but with
   this disgrace before them which they will never be able
   altogether to get rid of. I can divorce Hampstead and his
   sister from my heart; but they will still be in some sort
   brother and sister to my poor boys. How am I to teach them
   to respect their elder brother, who I suppose must in
   course of time become Head of the House, when he is hand
   and glove with a dreadful young man such as that! Am I not
   justified in declaring that no communication shall be kept
   up between the two families? If she marries the man she
   will of course drop the name; but yet all the world will
   know because of the title. As for him, I am afraid that
   there is no hope;--although it is odd that the second son
   does so very often come to the title. If you look into it
   you will find that the second brother has almost a better
   chance than the elder,--although I am sure that nothing of
   the kind will ever happen to dear Hautboy. But he knows
   how to live in that state of life to which it has pleased
   God to call him! Do write to me at once, and tell me what
   I ought to do with a due regard to the position to which I
   have been called upon to fill in the world.

   Your most affectionate sister,

   CLARA KINGSBURY.

   P.S.--Do remember poor Mr. Greenwood if Lord Persiflage
   should know how to do something for a clergyman. He is
   getting old, and Kingsbury has never been able to do
   anything for him. I hope the Liberals never will be able
   to do anything for anybody. I don't think Mr. Greenwood
   would be fit for any duty, because he has been idle all
   his life, and is now fond of good living; but a deanery
   would just suit him.

After the interval of a fortnight Lady Kingsbury received a reply from her sister which the
reader may as well see at once.

   Castle Hautboy,
   November 9th.

   MY DEAR CLARA,--

   I don't know that there is anything further to be done
   about Fanny. As for divorcing her from your heart, I don't
   suppose that it amounts to much. I advise you to keep on
   good terms with Hampstead, because if anything were to
   happen, it is always well for the Dowager to be friends
   with the heir. If Fanny will marry the man she must. Lady
   Di Peacocke married Mr. Billyboy, who was a clerk in one
   of the offices. They made him Assistant Secretary, and
   they now live in Portugal Street and do very well. I see
   Lady Diana about everywhere. Mr. Billyboy can't keep a
   carriage for her, but that of course is her look-out.

   As to what you say about second sons succeeding, don't
   think of it. It would get you into a bad frame of mind,
   and make you hate the very person upon whom you will
   probably have to depend for much of your comfort.

   I think you should take things easier, and, above all, do
   not trouble your husband. I am sure he could make himself
   very unpleasant if he were driven too far. Persiflage has
   no clerical patronage whatever, and would not interfere
   about Deans or Bishops for all the world. I suppose he
   could appoint a Chaplain to an Embassy, but your clergyman
   seems to be too old and too idle for that.

   Your affectionate sister,

   GERALDINE PERSIFLAGE.

This letter brought very little comfort to the distracted Marchioness. There was much in it
so cold that it offended her deeply, and for a moment prompted her almost to divorce also Lady
Persiflage from her heart. Lady Persiflage seemed to think that Fanny should be absolutely
encouraged to marry the Post Office clerk, because at some past period some Lady Diana, who
at the time was near fifty, had married a clerk also. It might be that a Lady Diana should
have run away with a groom, but would that be a reason why so monstrous a crime should be repeated?
And then in this letter there was so absolute an absence of all affectionate regard for her
own children! She had spoken with great love of Lord Hautboy; but then Lord Hautboy was the
acknowledged heir, whereas her own children were nobodies. In this there lay the sting. And
then she felt herself to have been rebuked because she had hinted at the possibility of Lord
Hampstead's departure for a better world. Lord Hampstead was mortal, as well as others. And
why should not his death be contemplated, especially as it would confer so great a benefit
on the world at large? Her sister's letter persuaded her of nothing. The divorce should remain
as complete as ever. She would not condescend to think of any future advantages which might
accrue to her from any intimacy with her stepson. Her dower had been regularly settled. Her
duty was to her own children,--and secondly to her husband. If she could succeed in turning
him against these two wicked elder children, then she would omit to do nothing which might
render his life pleasant to him. Such were the resolutions which she formed on receipt of her
sister's letter.

About this time Lord Kingsbury found it necessary to say a few words to Mr. Greenwood. There
had not of late been much expression of kindness from the Marquis to the clergyman. Since their
return from Germany his lordship had been either taciturn or cross. Mr. Greenwood took this
very much to heart. For though he was most anxious to assure to himself the friendship of the
Marchioness he did not at all wish to neglect the Marquis. It was in truth on the Marquis that
he depended for everything that he had in the world. The Marquis could send him out of the
house to-morrow,--and if this house were closed to him, none other, as far as he knew, would
be open to him except the Union. He had lived delicately all his life, and luxuriously,--but
fruitlessly as regarded the gathering of any honey for future wants. Whatever small scraps
of preferment might have come in his way had been rejected as having been joined with too much
of labour and too little of emolument. He had gone on hoping that so great a man as the Marquis
would be able to do something for him,--thinking that he might at any rate fasten his patron
closely to him by bonds of affection. This had been in days before the coming of the present
Marchioness. At first she had not created any special difficulty for him. She did not at once
attempt to overthrow the settled politics of the family, and Mr. Greenwood had been allowed
to be blandly liberal. But during the last year or two, great management had been necessary.
By degrees he had found it essential to fall into the conservative views of her ladyship,--which
extended simply to the idea that the cream of the earth should be allowed to be the cream of
the earth. It is difficult in the same house to adhere to two political doctrines, because
the holders of each will require support at all general meetings. Gradually the Marchioness
had become exigeant, and the Marquis was becoming aware that he was being thrown over. A feeling
of anger was growing up in his mind which he did not himself analyze. When he heard that the
clergyman had taken upon himself to lecture Lady Frances,--for it was thus he read the few
words which his son had spoken to him,--he carried his anger with him for a day or two, till
at last he found an opportunity of explaining himself to the culprit.

"Lady Frances will do very well where she is," said the Marquis, in answer to some expression
of a wish as to his daughter's comfort.

"Oh, no doubt!"

"I am not sure that I am fond of too much interference in such matters."

"Have I interfered, my lord?"

"I do not mean to find any special fault on this occasion."

"I hope not, my lord."

"But you did speak to Lady Frances when I think it might have been as well that you should
have held your tongue."

"I had been instructed to see that young man in London."

"Exactly;--but not to say anything to Lady Frances."

"I had known her ladyship so many years!"

"Do not drive me to say that you had known her too long."

Mr. Greenwood felt this to be very hard;--for what he had said to Lady Frances he had in truth
said under instruction. That last speech as to having perhaps known the young lady too long
seemed to contain a terrible threat. He was thus driven to fall back upon his instructions.
"Her ladyship seemed to think that perhaps a word in season--"

The Marquis felt this to be cowardly, and was more inclined to be angry with his old friend
than if he had stuck to that former plea of old friendship. "I will not have interference in
this house, and there's an end of it. If I wish you to do anything for me I will tell you.
That is all. If you please nothing more shall be said about it. The subject is disagreeable to me."

      *      *      *      *      *      *

"Has the Marquis said anything about Lady Frances since she went?" the Marchioness asked the
clergyman the next morning. How was he to hold his balance between them if he was to be questioned
by both sides in this way? "I suppose he has mentioned her?"

"He just mentioned the name one day."

"Well?"

"I rather think that he does not wish to be interrogated about her ladyship."

"I dare say not. Is he anxious to have her back again?"

"That I cannot say, Lady Kingsbury. I should think he must be."

"Of course I shall be desirous to ascertain the truth. He has been so unreasonable that I hardly
know how to speak to him myself. I suppose he tells you!"

"I rather think his lordship will decline to speak about her ladyship just at present."

"Of course it is necessary that I should know. Now that she has chosen to take herself off
I shall not choose to live under the same roof with her again. If Lord Kingsbury speaks to
you on the subject you should make him understand that." Poor Mr. Greenwood felt that there
were thorny paths before him, in which it might be very difficult to guard his feet from pricks.
Then he had to consider if there were to be two sides in the house, strongly opposed to each
other, with which would it be best for him to take a part? The houses of the Marquis, with
all their comforts, were open for him; but the influence of Lord Persiflage was very great,
whereas that of the Marquis was next to nothing.

CHAPTER XII.

CASTLE HAUTBOY.

"You'd better ask the old Traffords down here for a few weeks. Hampstead won't shoot, but he
can hunt with the Braeside harriers."

This was the answer made by Lord Persiflage to his wife when he was told by her of that divorce
which had taken place at Trafford Park, and of the departure of Lady Frances for Hendon. Hampstead
and Lady Frances were the old Traffords. Lord Persiflage, too, was a Conservative, but his
politics were of a very different order from those entertained by his sister-in-law. He was,
above all, a man of the world. He had been our Ambassador at St. Petersburg, and was now a
Member of the Cabinet. He liked the good things of office, but had no idea of quarrelling with
a Radical because he was a Radical. He cared very little as to the opinions of his guests,
if they could make themselves either pleasant or useful. He looked upon his sister-in-law as
an old fool, and had no idea of quarrelling with Hampstead for her sake. If the girl persisted
in making a bad match she must take the consequences. No great harm would come,--except to
her. As to the evil done to his "order," that did not affect Lord Persiflage at all. He did
not expect his order to endure for ever. All orders become worn out in time, and effete. He
had no abhorrence for anybody; but he liked pleasant people; he liked to treat everything as
a joke; and he liked the labours of his not unlaborious life to be minimised. Having given
his orders about the old Traffords, as he called them in reference to the "darlings," he said
nothing more on the subject. Lady Persiflage wrote a note to "Dear Fanny," conveying the invitation
in three words, and received a reply to the effect that she and her brother would be at Castle
Hautboy before the end of November. Hampstead would perhaps bring a couple of horses, but he
would put them up at the livery stables at Penrith.

"How do you do, Hampstead," said Persiflage when he first met his guest before dinner on the
day of the arrival. "You haven't got rid of everything yet?"

This question was supposed to refer to Lord Hampstead's revolutionary tendencies. "Not quite
so thoroughly as we hope to do soon."

"I always think it a great comfort that in our country the blackguards are so considerate.
I must own that we do very little for them, and yet they never knock us over the head or shoot
at us, as they do in Russia and Germany and France." Then he passed on, having said quite enough
for one conversation.

"So you've gone off to Hendon to live with your brother?" said Lady Persiflage to her niece.

"Yes; indeed," said Lady Fanny, blushing at the implied allusion to her low-born lover which
was contained in this question.

But Lady Persiflage had no idea of saying a word about the lover, or of making herself in any
way unpleasant. "I dare say it will be very comfortable for you both," she said; "but we thought
you might be a little lonely till you got used to it, and therefore asked you to come down
for a week or two. The house is full of people, and you will be sure to find some one that
you know." Not a word was said at Castle Hautboy as to those terrible things which had occurred
in the Trafford family.

Young Vivian was there, half, as he said, for ornament, but partly for pleasure and partly
for business. "He likes to have a private secretary with him," he said to Hampstead, "in order
that people might think there is something to do. As a rule they never send anything down from
the Foreign Office at this time of year. He always has a Foreign Minister or two in the house,
or a few Secretaries of Legation, and that gives an air of business. Nothing would offend or
surprise him so much as if one of them were to say a word about affairs. Nobody ever does,
and therefore he is supposed to be the safest Foreign Minister that we've had in Downing Street
since old ----'s time."

"Well, Hautboy." "Well, Hampstead." Thus the two heirs greeted each other. "You'll come and
shoot to-morrow?" asked the young host.

"I never shoot. I thought all the world knew that."

"The best cock-shooting in all England," said Hautboy. "But we shan't come to that for the
next month."

"Cocks or hens, pheasants, grouse, or partridge, rabbits or hares, it's all one to me. I couldn't
hit 'em if I would, and I wouldn't if I could."

"There is a great deal in the couldn't," said Hautboy. "As for hunting, those Braeside fellows
go out two or three times a week. But it's a wretched sort of affair. They hunt hares or foxes
just as they come, and they're always climbing up a ravine or tumbling down a precipice."

"I can climb and tumble as well as any one," said Hampstead. So that question as to the future
amusement of the guest was settled.

But the glory of the house of Hauteville,--Hauteville was the Earl's family name,--at present
shone most brightly in the person of the eldest daughter, Lady Amaldina. Lady Amaldina, who
was as beautiful in colour, shape, and proportion as wax could make a Venus, was engaged to
marry the eldest son of the Duke of Merioneth. The Marquis of Llwddythlw was a young man about
forty years of age, of great promise, who had never been known to do a foolish thing in his
life, and his father was one of those half-dozen happy noblemen, each of whom is ordinarily
reported to be the richest man in England. Lady Amaldina was not unnaturally proud of her high
destiny, and as the alliance had already been advertised in all the newspapers, she was not
unwilling to talk about it. Lady Frances was not exactly a cousin, but stood in the place of
a cousin, and therefore was regarded as a good listener for all the details which had to be
repeated. It might be that Lady Amaldina took special joy in having such a listener, because
Lady Frances herself had placed her own hopes so low. That story as to the Post Office clerk
was known to everybody at Castle Hautboy. Lady Persiflage ridiculed the idea of keeping such
things secret. Having so much to be proud of in regard to her own children, she thought that
there should be no such secrets. If Fanny Trafford did intend to marry the Post Office clerk
it would be better that all the world should know it beforehand. Lady Amaldina knew it, and
was delighted at having a confidante whose views and prospects in life were so different from
her own. "Of course, dear, you have heard what is going to happen to me," she said, smiling.

"I have heard of your engagement with the son of the Duke of Merioneth, the man with the terrible
Welsh name."

"When you once know how to pronounce it it is the prettiest word that poetry ever produced!"
Then Lady Amaldina did pronounce her future name;--but nothing serviceable would be done for
the reader if an attempt were made to write the sound which she produced. "I am not sure but
what it was the name which first won my heart. I can sign it now quite easily without a mistake."

"It won't be long, I suppose, before you will have to do so always?"

"An age, my dear! The Duke's affairs are of such a nature,--and Llwddythlw is so constantly
engaged in business, that I don't suppose it will take place for the next ten years. What with
settlements, and entails, and Parliament, and the rest of it, I shall be an old woman before
I am,--led to the hymeneal altar."

"Ten years!" said Lady Fanny.

"Well, say ten months, which seems to be just as long."

"Isn't he in a hurry?"

"Oh, awfully; but what can he do, poor fellow? He is so placed that he cannot have his affairs
arranged for him in half-an-hour, as other men can do. It is a great trouble having estates
so large and interests so complicated! Now there is one thing I particularly want to ask you."

"What is it?"

"About being one of the bridesmaids."

"One can hardly answer for ten years hence."

"That is nonsense, of course. I am determined to have no girl who has not a title. It isn't
that I care about that kind of thing in the least, but the Duke does. And then I think the
list will sound more distinguished in the newspapers, if all the Christian names are given
with the Lady before them. There are to be his three sisters, Lady Anne, Lady Antoinette, and
Lady Anatolia;--then my two sisters, Lady Alphonsa and Lady Amelia. To be sure they are very
young."

"They may be old enough according to what you say."

"Yes, indeed. And then there will be Lady Arabella Portroyal, and Lady Augusta Gelashires.
I have got the list written out somewhere, and there are to be just twenty."

"If the catalogue is finished there will hardly be room for me."

"The Earl of Knocknacoppul's daughter has sent me word that she must refuse, because her own
marriage will take place first. She would have put it off, as she is only going to marry an
Irish baronet, and because she is dying to have her name down as one of the bevy, but he says
that if she delays any longer he'll go on a shooting expedition to the Rocky Mountains, and
then perhaps he might never come back. So there is a vacancy."

"I hardly like to make a promise so long beforehand. Perhaps I might have a young man, and
he might go off to the Rocky Mountains."

"That's just what made me not put down your name at first. Of course you know we've heard about
Mr. Roden?"

"I didn't know," said Lady Frances, blushing.

"Oh dear, yes. Everybody knows it. And I think it such a brave thing to do,--if you're really
attached to him!"

"I should never marry any man without being attached to him," said Lady Frances.

"That's of course! But I mean romantically attached. I don't pretend to that kind of thing
with Llwddythlw. I don't think it necessary in a marriage of this kind. He is a great deal
older than I am, and is bald. I suppose Mr. Roden is very, very handsome?"

"I have not thought much about that."

"I should have considered that one would want it for a marriage of that kind. I don't know
whether after all it isn't the best thing to do. Romance is so delicious!"

"But then it's delicious to be a Duchess," said Lady Frances, with the slightest touch of irony.

"Oh, no doubt! One has to look at it all round, and then to form a judgment. It went a great
way with papa, I know, Llwddythlw being such a good man of business. He has been in the Household,
and the Queen will be sure to send a handsome present. I expect to have the grandest show of
wedding presents that any girl has yet exhibited in England. Ever so many people have asked
mamma already as to what I should like best. Mr. MacWhapple said out plain that he would go
to a hundred and fifty pounds. He is a Scotch manufacturer, and has papa's interest in Wigtonshire.
I suppose you don't intend to do anything very grand in that way."

"I suppose not, as I don't know any Scotch manufacturers. But my marriage, if I ever am married,
is a thing so much of the future that I haven't even begun to think of my dress yet."

"I'll tell you a secret," said Lady Amaldina, whispering. "Mine is already made, and I've tried
it on."

"You might get ever so much stouter in ten years," said Lady Frances.

"That of course was joking. But we did think the marriage would come off last June, and as
we were in Paris in April the order was given. Don't you tell anybody about that."

Then it was settled that the name of Lady Frances should be put down on the list of bridesmaids,
but put down in a doubtful manner,--as is done with other things of great importance.

A few days after Lord Hampstead's arrival a very great dinner-party was given at the Castle,
at which all the county round was invited. Castle Hautboy is situated near Pooly Bridge, just
in the county of Westmoreland, on an eminence, giving it a grand prospect over Ulleswater,
which is generally considered to be one of the Cumberland Lakes. Therefore the gentry from
the two counties were invited as far round as Penrith, Shap, Bampton, and Patterdale. The Earl's
property in that neighbourhood was scattered about through the two counties, and was looked
after by a steward, or manager, who lived himself at Penrith, and was supposed to be very efficacious
in such duties. His name was Crocker; and not only was he invited to the dinner, but also his
son, who happened at the time to be enjoying the month's holiday which was allowed to him by
the authorities of the office in London to which he was attached.

The reader may remember that a smart young man of this name sat at the same desk with George
Roden at the General Post Office. Young Crocker was specially delighted with the honour done
him on this occasion. He not only knew that his fellow clerk's friend, Lord Hampstead, was
at the Castle, and his sister, Lady Frances, with him; but he also knew that George Roden was
engaged to marry that noble lady! Had he heard this before he left London, he would probably
have endeavoured to make some atonement for his insolence to Roden; for he was in truth filled
with a strong admiration for the man who had before him the possibility of such high prospects.
But the news had only reached him since he had been in the North. Now he thought that he might
possibly find an opportunity of making known to Lord Hampstead his intimacy with Roden, and
of possibly saying a word--just uttering a hint--as to that future event.

It was long before he could find himself near enough to Lord Hampstead to address him. He had
even refused to return home with his father, who did not like being very late on the road,
saying that he had got a lift into town in another conveyance. This he did, with the prospect
of having to walk six miles into Penrith in his dress boots, solely with the object of saying
a few words to Roden's friend. At last he was successful.

"We have had what I call an extremely pleasant evening, my lord." It was thus he commenced;
and Hampstead, whose practice it was to be specially graceful to any one whom he chanced to
meet but did not think to be a gentleman, replied very courteously that the evening had been
pleasant.

"Quite a thing to remember," continued Crocker.

"Perhaps one remembers the unpleasant things the longest," said Hampstead, laughing.

"Oh, no, my lord, not that. I always forget the unpleasant. That's what I call philosophy."
Then he broke away into the subject that was near his heart. "I wish our friend Roden had been
here, my lord."

"Is he a friend of yours?"

"Oh dear, yes;--most intimate. We sit in the same room at the Post Office. And at the same
desk,--as thick as thieves, as the saying is. We often have a crack about your lordship."

"I have a great esteem for George Roden. He and I are really friends. I know no one for whom
I have a higher regard." This he said with an earnest voice, thinking himself bound to express
his friendship more loudly than he would have done had the friend been in his own rank of life.

"That's just what I feel. Roden is a man that will rise."

"I hope so."

"He'll be sure to get something good before long. They'll make him a Surveyor, or Chief Clerk,
or something of that kind. I'll back him to have £500 a year before any man in the office.
There'll be a shindy about it, of course. There always is a shindy when a fellow is put up
out of his turn. But he needn't care for that. They can laugh as win. Eh, my lord!"

"He would be the last to wish an injustice to be done for his own good."

"We've got to take that as it comes, my lord. I won't say but what I should like to go up at
once to a senior class over other men's heads. There isn't a chance of that, because I'm independent,
and the seniors don't like me. Old Jerningham is always down upon me just for that reason.
You ask Roden, and he'll tell you the same thing,--my lord." Then came a momentary break in
the conversation, and Lord Hampstead was seizing advantage of it to escape. But Crocker, who
had taken enough wine to be bold, saw the attempt, and intercepted it. He was desirous of letting
the lord know all that he knew. "Roden is a happy dog, my lord."

"Happy, I hope, though not a dog," said Hampstead, trusting that he could retreat gracefully
behind the joke.

"Ha, ha, ha! The dog only meant what a lucky fellow he is. I have heard him speak in raptures
of what is in store for him."

"What!"

"There's no happiness like married happiness; is there, my lord?"

"Upon my word, I can't say. Good night to you."

"I hope you will come and see me and Roden at the office some of these days."

"Good night, good night!" Then the man did go. For a moment or two Lord Hampstead felt actually
angry with his friend. Could it be that Roden should make so little of his sister's name as
to talk about her to the Post Office clerks,--to so mean a fellow as this! And yet the man
certainly knew the fact of the existing engagement. Hampstead thought it impossible that it
should have travelled beyond the limits of his own family. It was natural that Roden should
have told his mother; but unnatural,--so Hampstead thought,--that his friend should have made
his sister a subject of conversation to any one else. It was horrible to him that a stranger
such as that should have spoken to him about his sister at all. But surely it was not possible
that Roden should have sinned after that fashion. He soon resolved that it was not possible.
But how grievous a thing it was that a girl's name should be made so common in the mouths of men!

After that he sauntered into the smoking-room, where were congregated the young men who were
staying in the house. "That's a kind of thing that happens only once a year," said Hautboy,
speaking to all the party; "but I cannot, for the life of me, see why it should happen at all."

"Your governor finds that it succeeds in the county," said one.

"He polishes off a whole heap at one go," said another.

"It does help to keep a party together," said a third.

"And enables a lot of people to talk of dining at Castle Hautboy without lying," said a fourth.

"But why should a lot of people be enabled to say that they'd dined here?" asked Hautboy. "I
like to see my friends at dinner. What did you think about it, Hampstead?"

"It's all according to Hampstead's theories," said one.

"Only he'd have had the tinkers and the tailors too," said another.

"And wouldn't have had the ladies and gentlemen," said a third.

"I would have had the tailors and tinkers," said Hampstead, "and I would have had the ladies
and gentlemen, too, if I could have got them to meet the tailors and tinkers;--but I would
not have had that young man who got me out into the hall just now."

"Why,--that was Crocker, the Post Office clerk," said Hautboy. "Why shouldn't we have a Post
Office clerk as well as some one else? Nevertheless, Crocker is a sad cad." In the mean time
Crocker was walking home to Penrith in his dress boots.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE BRAESIDE HARRIERS.

The Braeside Harriers can hardly be called a "crack" pack of hounds. Lord Hautboy had been
right in saying that they were always scrambling through ravines, and that they hunted whatever
they could find to hunt. Nevertheless, the men and the hounds were in earnest, and did accomplish
a fair average of sport under difficult circumstances. No "Pegasus" or "Littlelegs," or "Pigskin,"
ever sent accounts of wondrous runs from Cumberland or Westmoreland to the sporting papers,
in which the gentlemen who had asked the special Pigskin of the day to dinner were described
as having been "in" at some "glorious finish" on their well-known horses Banker or Buff,--the
horses named being generally those which the gentlemen wished to sell. The names of gorses
and brooks had not become historic, as have those of Ranksborough and Whissendine. Trains were
not run to suit this or the other meet. Gentlemen did not get out of fast drags with pretty
little aprons tied around their waists, like girls in a country house coming down to breakfast.
Not many perhaps wore pink coats, and none pink tops. One horse would suffice for one day's
work. An old assistant huntsman in an old red coat, with one boy mounted on a ragged pony,
served for an establishment. The whole thing was despicable in the eyes of men from the Quorn
and Cottesmore. But there was some wonderful riding and much constant sport with the Braeside
Harriers, and the country had given birth to certainly the best hunting song in the language;--

   Do you ken John Peel with his coat so gay;
   Do you ken John Peel at the break of day;
   Do you ken John Peel when he's far, far away
      With his hounds and his horn in the morning.

Such as the Braeside Harriers were, Lord Hampstead determined to make the experiment, and on
a certain morning had himself driven to Cronelloe Thorn, a favourite meet halfway between Penrith
and Keswick.

I hold that nothing is so likely to be permanently prejudicial to the interest of hunting in
the British Isles as a certain flavour of tip-top fashion which has gradually enveloped it.
There is a pretence of grandeur about that and, alas, about other sports also, which is, to
my thinking, destructive of all sport itself. Men will not shoot unless game is made to appear
before them in clouds. They will not fish unless the rivers be exquisite. To row is nothing
unless you can be known as a national hero. Cricket requires appendages which are troublesome
and costly, and by which the minds of economical fathers are astounded. To play a game of hockey
in accordance with the times you must have a specially trained pony and a gaudy dress. Racquets
have given place to tennis because tennis is costly. In all these cases the fashion of the
game is much more cherished than the game itself. But in nothing is this feeling so predominant
as in hunting. For the management of a pack, as packs are managed now, a huntsman needs must
be a great man himself, and three mounted subordinates are necessary, as at any rate for two
of these servants a second horse is required. A hunt is nothing in the world unless it goes
out four times a week at least. A run is nothing unless the pace be that of a steeplechase.
Whether there be or be not a fox before the hounds is of little consequence to the great body
of riders. A bold huntsman who can make a dash across country from one covert to another, and
who can so train his hounds that they shall run as though game were before them, is supposed
to have provided good sport. If a fox can be killed in covert afterwards so much the better
for those who like to talk of their doings. Though the hounds brought no fox with them, it
is of no matter. When a fox does run according to his nature he is reviled as a useless brute,
because he will not go straight across country. But the worst of all is the attention given
by men to things altogether outside the sport. Their coats and waistcoats, their boots and
breeches, their little strings and pretty scarfs, their saddles and bridles, their dandy knick-knacks,
and, above all, their flasks, are more to many men than aught else in the day's proceedings.
I have known girls who have thought that their first appearance in the ball-room, when all
was fresh, unstained, and perfect from the milliner's hand, was the one moment of rapture for
the evening. I have sometimes felt the same of young sportsmen at a Leicestershire or Northamptonshire
meet. It is not that they will not ride when the occasion comes. They are always ready enough
to break their bones. There is no greater mistake than to suppose that dandyism is antagonistic
to pluck. The fault is that men train themselves to care for nothing that is not as costly
as unlimited expenditure can make it. Thus it comes about that the real love of sport is crushed
under a desire for fashion. A man will be almost ashamed to confess that he hunts in Essex
or Sussex, because the proper thing is to go down to the Shires. Grass, no doubt, is better
than ploughed land to ride upon; but, taking together the virtues and vices of all hunting
counties, I doubt whether better sport is not to be found in what I will venture to call the
haunts of the clodpoles, than among the palmy pastures of the well-breeched beauties of Leicestershire.

Braeside Harriers though they were, a strong taste for foxes had lately grown up in the minds
of men and in the noses of hounds. Blank days they did not know, because a hare would serve
the turn if the nobler animal were not forthcoming; but ideas of preserving had sprung up;
steps were taken to solace the minds of old women who had lost their geese; and the Braeside
Harriers, though they had kept their name, were gradually losing their character. On this occasion
the hounds were taken off to draw a covert instead of going to a so-ho, as regularly as though
they were advertised among the fox-hounds in The Times. It was soon known that Lord Hampstead
was Lord Hampstead, and he was welcomed by the field. What matter that he was a revolutionary
Radical if he could ride to hounds? At any rate, he was the son of a Marquis, and was not left
to that solitude which sometimes falls upon a man who appears suddenly as a stranger among
strangers on a hunting morning. "I am glad to see you out, my lord," said Mr. Amblethwaite,
the Master. "It isn't often that we get recruits from Castle Hautboy."

"They think a good deal of shooting there."

"Yes; and they keep their horses in Northamptonshire. Lord Hautboy does his hunting there.
The Earl, I think, never comes out now."

"I dare say not. He has all the foreign nations to look after."

"I suppose he has his hands pretty full," said Mr. Amblethwaite. "I know I have mine just at
this time of the year. Where do you think these hounds ran their fox to last Friday? We found
him outside of the Lowther Woods, near the village of Clifton. They took him straight over
Shap Fell, and then turning sharp to the right, went all along Hawes Wall and over High Street
into Troutbeck."

"That's all among the mountains," said Hampstead.

"Mountains! I should think so. I have to spend half my time among the mountains."

"But you couldn't ride over High Street?"

"No, we couldn't ride; not there. But we had to make our way round, some of us, and some of
them went on foot. Dick never lost sight of the hounds the whole day." Dick was the boy who
rode the ragged pony. "When we found 'em there he was with half the hounds around him, and
the fox's brush stuck in his cap."

"How did you get home that night?" asked Hampstead.

"Home! I didn't get home at all. It was pitch dark before we got the rest of the hounds together.
Some of them we didn't find till next day. I had to go and sleep at Bowness, and thought myself
very lucky to get a bed. Then I had to ride home next day over Kirkstone Fell. That's what
I call something like work for a man and horse.--There's a fox in there, my lord, do you hear
them?" Then Mr. Amblethwaite bustled away to assist at the duty of getting the fox to break.

"I'm glad to see that you're fond of this kind of thing, my lord," said a voice in Hampstead's
ear, which, though he had only heard it once, he well remembered. It was Crocker, the guest
at the dinner-party,--Crocker, the Post Office clerk.

"Yes," said Lord Hampstead, "I am very fond of this kind of thing. That fox has broken, I think,
at the other side of the cover." Then he trotted off down a little lane between two loose-built
walls, so narrow that there was no space for two men to ride abreast. His object at that moment
was to escape Crocker rather than to look after the hounds.

They were in a wild country, not exactly on a mountain side, but among hills which not far
off grew into mountains, where cultivation of the rudest kind was just beginning to effect
its domination over human nature. There was a long spinney rather than a wood stretching down
a bottom, through which a brook ran. It would now cease, and then renew itself, so that the
trees, though not absolutely continuous, were nearly so for the distance of half a mile. The
ground on each side was rough with big stones, and steep in some places as they went down the
hill. But still it was such that horsemen could gallop on it. The fox made his way along the
whole length, and then traversing, so as to avoid the hounds, ran a ring up the hillside, and
back into the spinney again. Among the horsemen many declared that the brute must be killed
unless he would make up his mind for a fair start. Mr. Amblethwaite was very busy, hunting
the hounds himself, and intent rather on killing the fox fairly than on the hopes of a run.
Perhaps he was not desirous of sleeping out another night on the far side of Helvellyn. In
this way the sportsmen galloped up and down the side of the wood till the feeling arose, as
it does on such occasions, that it might be well for a man to stand still awhile and spare
his horse, in regard to the future necessities of the day. Lord Hampstead did as others were
doing, and in a moment Crocker was by his side. Crocker was riding an animal which his father
was wont to drive about the country, but one well known in the annals of the Braeside Harriers.
It was asserted of him that the fence was not made which he did not know how to creep over.
Of jumping, such as jumping is supposed to be in the shires, he knew nothing. He was, too,
a bad hand at galloping, but with a shambling, half cantering trot, which he had invented for
himself, he could go along all day, not very quickly, but in such fashion as never to be left
altogether behind. He was a flea-bitten horse, if my readers know what that is,--a flea-bitten
roan, or white covered with small red spots. Horses of this colour are ugly to look at, but
are very seldom bad animals. Such as he was, Crocker, who did not ride much when up in London,
was very proud of him. Crocker was dressed in a green coat, which in a moment of extravagance
he had had made for hunting, and in brown breeches, in which he delighted to display himself
on all possible occasions. "My lord," he said, "you'd hardly think it, but I believe this horse
to be the best hunter in Cumberland."

"Is he, indeed? Some horse of course must be the best, and why not yours?"

"There's nothing he can't do;--nothing. His jumping is mi--raculous, and as for pace, you'd
be quite surprised.--They're at him again now. What an echo they do make among the hills!"

Indeed they did. Every now and then the Master would just touch his horn, giving a short blast,
just half a note, and then the sound would come back, first from this rock and then from the
other, and the hounds as they heard it would open as though encouraged by the music of the
hills, and then their voices would be carried round the valley, and come back again and again
from the steep places, and they would become louder and louder as though delighted with the
effect of their own efforts. Though there should be no hunting, the concert was enough to repay
a man for his trouble in coming there. "Yes," said Lord Hampstead, his disgust at the man having
been quenched for the moment by the charm of the music, "it is a wonderful spot for echoes."

"It's what I call awfully nice. We don't have anything like that up at St. Martin's-le-Grand."
Perhaps it may be necessary to explain that the Post Office in London stands in a spot bearing
that poetic name.

"I don't remember any echoes there," said Lord Hampstead.

"No, indeed;--nor yet no hunting, nor yet no hounds; are there, my lord? All the same, it's
not a bad sort of place!"

"A very respectable public establishment!" said Lord Hampstead.

"Just so, my lord; that's just what I always say. It ain't swell like Downing Street, but it's
a deal more respectable than the Custom House."

"Is it? I didn't know."

"Oh yes. They all admit that. You ask Roden else." On hearing the name, Lord Hampstead began
to move his horse, but Crocker was at his side and could not be shaken off. "Have you heard
from him, my lord, since you have been down in these parts?"

"Not a word."

"I dare say he thinks more of writing to a correspondent of the fairer sex."

This was unbearable. Though the fox had again turned and gone up the valley,--a movement which
seemed to threaten his instant death, and to preclude any hope of a run from that spot,--Hampstead
felt himself compelled to escape, if he could. In his anger he touched his horse with his spur
and galloped away among the rocks, as though his object was to assist Mr. Amblethwaite in his
almost frantic efforts. But Crocker cared nothing for the stones. Where the lord went, he went.
Having made acquaintance with a lord, he was not going to waste the blessing which Providence
had vouchsafed to him.

"He'll never leave that place alive, my lord."

"I dare say not." And again the persecuted nobleman rode on,--thinking that neither should
Crocker, if he could have his will.

"By the way, as we are talking of Roden--"

"I haven't been talking about him at all." Crocker caught the tone of anger, and stared at
his companion. "I'd rather not talk about him."

"My lord! I hope there has been nothing like a quarrel. For the lady's sake, I hope there's
no misunderstanding!"

"Mr. Crocker," he said very slowly, "it isn't customary--"

At that moment the fox broke, the hounds were away, and Mr. Amblethwaite was seen rushing down
the hill-side, as though determined on breaking his neck. Lord Hampstead rushed after him at
a pace which, for a time, defied Mr. Crocker. He became thoroughly ashamed of himself in even
attempting to make the man understand that he was sinning against good taste. He could not
do so without some implied mention of his sister, and to allude to his sister in connection
with such a man was a profanation. He could only escape from the brute. Was this a punishment
which he was doomed to bear for being--as his stepmother was wont to say--untrue to his order?

In the mean time the hounds went at a great pace down the hill. Some of the old stagers, who
knew the country well, made a wide sweep round to the left, whence by lanes and tracks, which
were known to them, they could make their way down to the road which leads along Ulleswater
to Patterdale. In doing this they might probably not see the hounds again that day,--but such
are the charms of hunting in a hilly country. They rode miles around, and though they did again
see the hounds, they did not see the hunt. To have seen the hounds as they start, and to see
them again as they are clustering round the huntsman after eating their fox, is a great deal
to some men.

On this occasion it was Hampstead's lot--and Crocker's--to do much more than that. Though they
had started down a steep valley,--down the side rather of a gully,--they were not making their
way out from among the hills into the low country. The fox soon went up again,--not back, but
over an intervening spur of a mountain towards the lake. The riding seemed sometimes to Hampstead
to be impossible. But Mr. Amblethwaite did it, and he stuck to Mr. Amblethwaite. It would have
been all very well had not Crocker stuck to him. If the old roan would only tumble among the
stones what an escape there would be! But the old roan was true to his character, and, to give
every one his due, the Post Office clerk rode as well as the lord. There was nearly an hour
and a-half of it before the hounds ran into their fox just as he was gaining an earth among
the bushes and hollies with which Airey Force is surrounded. Then on the sloping meadow just
above the waterfall, the John Peel of the hunt dragged out the fox from among the trees, and,
having dismembered him artistically, gave him to the hungry hounds. Then it was that perhaps
half-a-dozen diligent, but cautious, huntsmen came up, and heard all those details of the race
which they were afterwards able to give, as on their own authority, to others who had been
as cautious, but not so diligent, as themselves.

"One of the best things I ever saw in this country," said Crocker, who had never seen a hound
in any other country. At this moment he had ridden up alongside of Hampstead on the way back
to Penrith. The Master and the hounds and Crocker must go all the way. Hampstead would turn
off at Pooley Bridge. But still there were four miles, during which he would be subjected to
his tormentor.

"Yes, indeed. A very good thing, as I was saying, Mr. Amblethwaite."

CHAPTER XIV.

COMING HOME FROM HUNTING.

Lord Hampstead had been discussing with Mr. Amblethwaite the difficult nature of hunting in
such a county as Cumberland. The hounds were in the road before them with John Peel in the
midst of them. Dick with the ragged pony was behind, looking after stragglers. Together with
Lord Hampstead and the Master was a hard-riding, rough, weather-beaten half-gentleman, half-farmer,
named Patterson, who lived a few miles beyond Penrith and was Amblethwaite's right hand in
regard to hunting. Just as Crocker joined them the road had become narrow, and the young lord
had fallen a little behind. Crocker had seized his opportunity;--but the lord also seized his,
and thrust himself in between Mr. Patterson and the Master. "That's all true," said the Master.
"Of course we don't presume to do the thing as you swells do it down in the Shires. We haven't
the money, and we haven't the country, and we haven't the foxes. But I don't know whether for
hunting we don't see as much of it as you do."

"Quite as much, if I may take to-day as a sample."

"Very ordinary;--wasn't it, Amblethwaite?" asked Patterson, who was quite determined to make
the most of his own good things.

"It was not bad to-day. The hounds never left their scent after they found him. I think our
hillsides carry the scent better than our grasses. If you want to ride, of course, it's rough.
But if you like hunting, and don't mind a scramble, perhaps you may see it here as well as
elsewhere."

"Better, a deal, from all I hear tell," said Patterson. "Did you ever hear any music like that
in Leicestershire, my lord?"

"I don't know that ever I did," said Hampstead. "I enjoyed myself amazingly."

"I hope you'll come again," said the Master, "and that often."

"Certainly, if I remain here."

"I knew his lordship would like it," said Crocker, crowding in on a spot where it was possible
for four to ride abreast. "I think it was quite extraordinary to see how a stranger like his
lordship got over our country."

"Clever little 'orse his lordship's on," said Patterson.

"It's the man more than the beast, I think," said Crocker, trying to flatter.

"The best man in England," said Patterson, "can't ride to hounds without a tidy animal under him."

"Nor yet can't the best horse in England stick to hounds without a good man on top of him,"
said the determined Crocker. Patterson grunted,--hating flattery, and remembering that the
man flattered was a lord.

Then the road became narrow again, and Hampstead fell a little behind. Crocker was alongside
of him in a moment. There seemed to be something mean in running away from the man;--something
at any rate absurd in seeming to run away from him. Hampstead was ashamed in allowing himself
to be so much annoyed by such a cause. He had already snubbed the man, and the man might probably
be now silent on the one subject which was so peculiarly offensive. "I suppose," said he, beginning
a conversation which should show that he was willing to discuss any general matter with Mr.
Crocker, "that the country north and west of Penrith is less hilly than this?"

"Oh, yes, my lord; a delightful country to ride over in some parts. Is Roden fond of following
the hounds, my lord?"

"I don't in the least know," said Hampstead, curtly. Then he made another attempt. "These hounds
don't go as far north as Carlisle?"

"Oh, no, my lord; never more than eight or ten miles from Penrith. They've another pack up
in that country; nothing like ours, but still they do show sport. I should have thought now
Roden would have been just the man to ride to hounds,--if he got the opportunity."

"I don't think he ever saw a hound in his life. I'm rather in a hurry, and I think I shall
trot on."

"I'm in a hurry myself," said Crocker, "and I shall be happy to show your lordship the way.
It isn't above a quarter of a mile's difference to me going by Pooley Bridge instead of Dallmaine."

"Pray don't do anything of the kind; I can find the road." Whereupon Hampstead shook hands
cordially with the Master, bade Mr. Patterson good-bye with a kindly smile, and trotted on
beyond the hounds as quickly as he could.

But Crocker was not to be shaken off. The flea-bitten roan was as good at the end of a day
as he was at the beginning, and trotted on gallantly. When they had gone some quarter of a
mile Hampstead acknowledged to himself that it was beyond his power to shake off his foe. By
that time Crocker had made good his position close alongside of the lord, with his horse's
head even with that of the other. "There is a word, my lord, I want to say to you." This Crocker
muttered somewhat piteously, so that Hampstead's heart was for the moment softened towards
him. He checked his horse and prepared himself to listen. "I hope I haven't given any offence.
I can assure you, my lord, I haven't intended it. I have so much respect for your lordship
that I wouldn't do it for the world."

What was he to do? He had been offended. He had intended to show that he was offended. And
yet he did not like to declare as much openly. His object had been to stop the man from talking,
and to do so if possible without making any reference himself to the subject in question. Were
he now to declare himself offended he could hardly do so without making some allusion to his
sister. But he had determined that he would make no such allusion. Now as the man appealed
to him, asking as it were forgiveness for some fault of which he was not himself conscious,
it was impossible to refrain from making him some answer. "All right," he said; "I'm sure you
didn't mean anything. Let us drop it, and there will be an end of it."

"Oh, certainly;--and I'm sure I'm very much obliged to your lordship. But I don't quite know
what it is that ought to be dropped. As I am so intimate with Roden, sitting at the same desk
with him every day of my life, it did seem natural to speak to your lordship about him."

This was true. As it had happened that Crocker, who as well as Roden was a Post Office Clerk,
had appeared as a guest at Castle Hautboy, it had been natural that he should speak of his
office companion to a man who was notoriously that companion's friend. Hampstead did not quite
believe in the pretended intimacy, having heard Roden declare that he had not as yet formed
any peculiar friendship at the Office. He had too felt, unconsciously, that such a one as Roden
ought not to be intimate with such a one as Crocker. But there was no cause of offence in this.
"It was natural," he said.

"And then I was unhappy when I thought from what you said that there had been some quarrel."

"There has been no quarrel," said Hampstead.

"I am very glad indeed to hear that." He was beginning to touch again on a matter that should
have been private. What was it to him whether or no there was a quarrel between Lord Hampstead
and Roden. Hampstead therefore again rode on in silence.

"I should have been so very sorry that anything should have occurred to interfere with our
friend's brilliant prospects." Lord Hampstead looked about to see whether there was any spot
at which he could make his escape by jumping over a fence. On the right hand there was the
lake rippling up on to the edge of the road, and on the left was a high stone wall, without
any vestige of an aperture through it as far as the eye could reach. He was already making
the pace as fast as he could, and was aware that no escape could be effected in that manner.
He shook his head, and bit the handle of his whip, and looked straight away before him through
his horse's ears. "You cannot think how proud I've been that a gentleman sitting at the same
desk with myself should have been so fortunate in his matrimonial prospects. I think it an
honour to the Post Office all round."

"Mr. Crocker," said Lord Hampstead, pulling up his horse suddenly, and standing still upon
the spot, "if you will remain here for five minutes I will ride on; or if you will ride on
I will remain here till you are out of sight. I must insist that one of these arrangements
be made."

"My lord!"

"Which shall it be?"

"Now I have offended you again."

"Don't talk of offence, but just do as I bid you. I want to be alone."

"Is it about the matrimonial alliance?" demanded Crocker almost in tears. Thereupon Lord Hampstead
turned his horse round and trotted back towards the hounds and horsemen, whom he heard on the
road behind him. Crocker paused a moment, trying to discover by the light of his own intellect
what might have been the cause of this singular conduct on the part of the young nobleman,
and then, having failed to throw any light on the matter, he rode on homewards, immersed in
deep thought. Hampstead, when he found himself again with his late companions, asked some idle
questions as to the hunting arrangements of next week. That they were idle he was quite aware,
having resolved that he would not willingly put himself into any position in which it might
be probable that he should again meet that objectionable young man. But he went on with his
questions, listening or not listening to Mr. Amblethwaite's answers, till he parted company
with his companions in the neighbourhood of Pooley Bridge. Then he rode alone to Hautboy Castle,
with his mind much harassed by what had occurred. It seemed to him to have been almost proved
that George Roden must have spoken to this man of his intended marriage. In all that the man
had said he had suggested that the information had come direct from his fellow-clerk. He had
seemed to declare,--Hampstead thought that he had declared,--that Roden had often discussed
the marriage with him. If so, how base must have been his friend's conduct! How thoroughly
must he have been mistaken in his friend's character! How egregiously wrong must his sister
have been in her estimate of the man! For himself, as long as the question had been simply
one of his own intimacy with a companion whose outside position in the world had been inferior
to his own, he had been proud of what he had done, and had answered those who had remonstrated
with him with a spirit showing that he despised their practices quite as much as they could
ridicule his. He had explained to his father his own ideas of friendship, and had been eager
in showing that George Roden's company was superior to most young men of his own position.
There had been Hautboy, and Scatterdash, and Lord Plunge, and the young Earl of Longoolds,
all of them elder sons, whom he described as young men without a serious thought in their heads.
What was it to him how Roden got his bread, so long as he got it honestly? "The man's the man
for a' that." Thus he had defended himself and been quite conscious that he was right. When
Roden had suddenly fallen in love with his sister, and his sister had as suddenly fallen in
love with Roden,--then he had begun to doubt. A thing which was in itself meritorious might
become dangerous and objectionable by reason of other things which it would bring in its train.
He felt for a time that associations which were good for himself might not be so good for his
sister. There seemed to be a sanctity about her rank which did not attach to his own. He had
thought that the Post Office clerk was as good as himself; but he could not assure himself
that he was as good as the ladies of his family. Then he had begun to reason with himself on
this subject, as he did on all. What was there different in a girl's nature that ought to make
her fastidious as to society which he felt to be good enough for himself? In entertaining the
feeling which had been strong within him as to that feminine sanctity, was he not giving way
to one of those empty prejudices of the world, in opposition to which he had resolved to make
a life-long fight? So he had reasoned with himself; but his reason, though it affected his
conduct, did not reach his taste. It irked him to think there should be this marriage, though
he was strong in his resolution to uphold his sister,--and, if necessary, to defend her. He
had not given way as to the marriage. It had been settled between himself and his sister and
his father that there should be no meeting of the lovers at Hendon Hall. He did hope that the
engagement might die away, though he was determined to cling to her even though she clung to
her lover. This was his state of mind, when this hideous young man, who seemed to have been
created with the object of showing him how low a creature a Post Office clerk could be, came
across him, and almost convinced him that that other Post Office clerk had been boasting among
his official associates of the favours of the high-born lady who had unfortunately become attached
to him! He would stick to his politics, to his Radical theories, to his old ideas about social
matters generally; but he was almost tempted to declare to himself that women for the present
ought to be regarded as exempt from those radical changes which would be good for men. For
himself his "order" was a vanity and a delusion; but for his sister it must still be held as
containing some bonds. In this frame of mind he determined that he would return to Hendon Hall
almost immediately. Further hope of hunting with the Braeside Harriers there was none; and
it was necessary for him to see Roden as soon as possible.

That evening at the Castle Lady Amaldina got hold of him, and asked him his advice as to her
future duties as a married woman. Lady Amaldina was very fond of little confidences as to her
future life, and had as yet found no opportunity of demanding the sympathy of her cousin. Hampstead
was not in truth her cousin, but they called each other cousins,--or were called so. None of
the Hauteville family felt any of that aversion to the Radicalism of the heir to the marquisate
which the Marchioness entertained. Lady Amaldina delighted to be Amy to Lord Hampstead, and
was very anxious to ask him his advice as to Lord Llwddythlw.

"Of course you know all about my marriage, Hampstead?" she said.

"I don't know anything about it," Hampstead replied.

"Oh, Hampstead; how ill-natured!"

"Nobody knows anything about it, because it hasn't taken place."

"That is so like a Radical, to be so precise and rational. My engagement then?"

"Yes; I've heard a great deal about that. We've been talking about that for--how long shall I say?"

"Don't be disagreeable. Of course such a man as Llwddythlw can't be married all in a hurry
just like anybody else."

"What a misfortune for him!"

"Why should it be a misfortune?"

"I should think it so if I were going to be married to you."

"That's the prettiest thing I have ever heard you say. At any rate he has got to put up with
it, and so have I. It is a bore, because people will talk about nothing else. What do you think
of Llwddythlw as a public man?"

"I haven't thought about it. I haven't any means of thinking. I am so completely a private
man myself, that I know nothing of public men. I hope he's good at going to sleep."

"Going to sleep?"

"Otherwise it must be so dull, sitting so many hours in the House of Commons. But he's been
at it a long time, and I dare say he's used to it."

"Isn't it well that a man in his position should have a regard to his country?"

"Every man ought to have a regard to his country;--but a stronger regard, if it be possible,
to the world at large."

Lady Amaldina stared at him, not knowing in the least what he meant. "You are so droll," she
said. "You never, I think, think of the position you were born to fill."

"Oh yes, I do. I'm a man, and I think a great deal about it."

"But you've got to be Marquis of Kingsbury, and Llwddythlw has got to be Duke of Merioneth.
He never forgets it for a moment."

"What a nuisance for him,--and for you."

"Why should it be a nuisance for me? Cannot a woman understand her duties as well as a man?"

"Quite so, if she knows how to get a glimpse at them."

"I do," said Lady Amaldina, earnestly. "I am always getting glimpses at them. I am quite aware
of the functions which it will become me to perform when I am Llwddythlw's wife."

"Mother of his children?"

"I didn't mean that at all, Hampstead. That's all in the hands of the Almighty. But in becoming
the future Duchess of Merioneth--"

"That's in the hands of the Almighty, too, isn't it?"

"No; yes. Of course everything is in God's hands."

"The children, the dukedom, and all the estates."

"I never knew any one so provoking," she exclaimed.

"One is at any rate as much as another."

"You don't a bit understand me," she said. "Of course if I go and get married, I do get married."

"And if you have children, you do have children. If you do,--and I hope you will,--I'm sure
they'll be very pretty and well behaved. That will be your duty, and then you'll have to see
that Llwddythlw has what he likes for dinner."

"I shall do nothing of the kind."

"Then he'll dine at the Club, or at the House of Commons. That's my idea of married life."

"Nothing beyond that? No community of soul?"

"Certainly not."

"No!"

"Because you believe in the Trinity, Llwddythlw won't go to heaven. If he were to take to gambling
and drinking you wouldn't go to the other place."

"How can you be so horrid."

"That would be a community of souls,--as souls are understood. A community of interests I hope
you will have, and, in order that you may, take care and look after his dinner." She could
not make much more of her cousin in the way of confidence, but she did exact a promise from
him, that he would be in attendance at her wedding.

A few days afterwards he returned to Hendon Park, leaving his sister to remain for a fortnight
longer at Castle Hautboy.

CHAPTER XV.

MARION FAY AND HER FATHER.

"I saw him go in a full quarter of an hour since, and Marion Fay went in before. I feel quite
sure that she knew that he was expected." Thus spoke Clara Demijohn to her mother.

"How could she have known it," asked Mrs. Duffer, who was present in Mrs. Demijohn's parlour,
where the two younger women were standing with their faces close to the window, with their
gloves on and best bonnets, ready for church.

"I am sure she did, because she had made herself smarter than ever with her new brown silk,
and her new brown gloves, and her new brown hat,--sly little Quaker that she is. I can see
when a girl has made herself up for some special occasion. She wouldn't have put on new gloves
surely to go to church with Mrs. Roden."

"If you stay staring there any longer you'll both be late," said Mrs. Demijohn.

"Mrs. Roden hasn't gone yet," said Clara, lingering. It was Sunday morning, and the ladies
at No. 10 were preparing for their devotions. Mrs. Demijohn herself never went to church, having
some years since had a temporary attack of sciatica, which had provided her with a perpetual
excuse for not leaving the house on a Sunday morning. She was always left at home with a volume
of Blair's Sermons; but Clara, who was a clever girl, was well aware that more than half a
page was never read. She was aware also that great progress was then made with the novel which
happened to have last come into the house from the little circulating library round the corner.
The ringing of the neighbouring church bell had come to its final tinkling, and Mrs. Duffer
knew that she must start, or disgrace herself in the eyes of the pew-opener. "Come, my dear,"
she said; and away they went. As the door of No. 10 opened so did that of No. 11 opposite,
and the four ladies, including Marion Fay, met in the road. "You have a visitor this morning,"
said Clara.

"Yes;--a friend of my son's."

"We know all about it," said Clara. "Don't you think he's a very fine-looking young man, Miss Fay?"

"Yes, I do," said Marion. "He is certainly a handsome young man."

"Beauty is but skin deep," said Mrs. Duffer.

"But still it goes a long way," said Clara, "particularly with high birth and noble rank."

"He is an excellent young man, as far as I know him," said Mrs. Roden, thinking that she was
called upon to defend her son's friend.

Hampstead had returned home on the Saturday, and had taken the earliest opportunity on the
following Sunday morning to go over to his friend at Holloway. The distance was about six miles,
and he had driven over, sending the vehicle back with the intention of walking home. He would
get his friend to walk with him, and then should take place that conversation which he feared
would become excessively unpleasant before it was finished. He was shown up to the drawing-room
of No. 11, and there he found all alone a young woman whom he had never seen before. This was
Marion Fay, the daughter of Zachary Fay, a Quaker, who lived at No. 17, Paradise Row. "I had
thought Mrs. Roden was here," he said.

"Mrs. Roden will be down directly. She is putting her bonnet on to go to church."

"And Mr. Roden?" he asked. "He I suppose is not going to church with her?"

"Ah, no; I wish he were. George Roden never goes to church."

"Is he a friend of yours?"

"For his mother's sake I was speaking;--but why not for his also? He is not specially my friend,
but I wish well to all men. He is not at home at present, but I understood that he will be
here shortly."

"Do you always go to church?" he asked, grounding his question not on any impertinent curiosity
as to her observance of her religious duties, but because he had thought from her dress she
must certainly be a Quaker.

"I do usually go to your church on a Sunday."

"Nay," said he, "I have no right to claim it as my church. I fear you must regard me also as
a heathen,--as you do George Roden."

"I am sorry for that, sir. It cannot be good that any man should be a heathen when so much
Christian teaching is abroad. But men I think allow themselves a freedom of thought from which
women in their timidity are apt to shrink. If so it is surely good that we should be cowards?"
Then the door opened, and Mrs. Roden came into the room.

"George is gone," she said, "to call on a sick friend, but he will be back immediately. He
got your letter yesterday evening, and he left word that I was to tell you that he would be
back by eleven. Have you introduced yourself to my friend Miss Fay?"

"I had not heard her name," he said smiling, "but we had introduced ourselves."

"Marion Fay is my name," said the girl, "and yours, I suppose is--Lord Hampstead."

"So now we may be supposed to know each other for ever after," he replied, laughing; "--only
I fear, Mrs. Roden, that your friend will repudiate the acquaintance because I do not go to
church."

"I said not so, Lord Hampstead. The nearer we were to being friends,--if that were possible,--the
more I should regret it." Then the two ladies started on their morning duty.

Lord Hampstead when he was alone immediately decided that he would like to have Marion Fay
for a friend, and not the less so because she went to church. He felt that she had been right
in saying that audacity in speculation on religious subjects was not becoming a young woman.
As it was unfitting that his sister Lady Frances should marry a Post Office clerk, so would
it have been unbecoming that Marion Fay should have been what she herself called a heathen.
Surely of all the women on whom his eyes had ever rested she was,--he would not say to himself
the most lovely,--but certainly the best worth looking at. The close brown bonnet and the little
cap, and the well-made brown silk dress, and the brown gloves on her little hands, together
made, to his eyes, as pleasing a female attire as a girl could well wear. Could it have been
by accident that the graces of her form were so excellently shown? It had to be supposed that
she, as a Quaker, was indifferent to outside feminine garniture. It is the theory of a Quaker
that she should be so, and in every article she had adhered closely to Quaker rule. As far
as he could see there was not a ribbon about her. There was no variety of colour. Her head-dress
was as simple and close as any that could have been worn by her grandmother. Hardly a margin
of smooth hair appeared between her cap and her forehead. Her dress fitted close to her neck,
and on her shoulders she wore a tight-fitting shawl. The purpose in her raiment had been Quaker
all through. The exquisite grace must have come altogether by accident,--just because it had
pleased nature to make her gracious! As to all this there might perhaps be room for doubt.
Whether there had been design or not might possibly afford scope for consideration. But that
the grace was there was a matter which required no consideration, and admitted of no doubt.

As Marion Fay will have much to do with our story, it will be well that some further description
should be given here of herself and of her condition in life. Zachary Fay, her father, with
whom she lived, was a widower with no other living child. There had been many others, who had
all died, as had also their mother. She had been a prey to consumption, but had lived long
enough to know that she had bequeathed the fatal legacy to her offspring,--to all of them except
to Marion, who, when her mother died, had seemed to be exempted from the terrible curse of
the family. She had then been old enough to receive her mother's last instructions as to her
father, who was then a broken-hearted man struggling with difficulty against the cruelty of
Providence. Why should it have been that God should thus afflict him,--him who had no other
pleasure in the world, no delights, but those which were afforded to him by the love of his
wife and children? It was to be her duty to comfort him, to make up as best she might by her
tenderness for all that he had lost and was losing. It was to be especially her duty to soften
his heart in all worldly matters, and to turn him as far as possible to the love of heavenly
things. It was now two years since her mother's death, and in all things she had endeavoured
to perform the duties which her mother had exacted from her.

But Zachary Fay was not a man whom it was easy to turn hither and thither. He was a stern,
hard, just man, of whom it may probably be said that if a world were altogether composed of
such, the condition of such a world would be much better than that of the world we know;--for
generosity is less efficacious towards permanent good than justice, and tender speaking less
enduring in its beneficial results than truth. His enemies, for he had enemies, said of him
that he loved money. It was no doubt true; for he that does not love money must be an idiot.
He was certainly a man who liked to have what was his own, who would have been irate with any
one who had endeavoured to rob him of his own, or had hindered him in his just endeavour to
increase his own. That which belonged to another he did not covet,--unless it might be in the
way of earning it. Things had prospered with him, and he was--for his condition in life--a
rich man. But his worldly prosperity had not for a moment succeeded in lessening the asperity
of the blow which had fallen upon him. With all his sternness he was essentially a loving man.
To earn money he would say--or perhaps more probably would only think--was the necessity imposed
upon man by the Fall of Adam; but to have something warm at his heart, something that should
be infinitely dearer to him than himself and all his possessions,--that was what had been left
of Divine Essence in a man even after the Fall of Adam. Now the one living thing left for him
to love was his daughter Marion.

He was not a man whose wealth was of high order, or his employment of great moment, or he would
not probably have been living at Holloway in Paradise Row. He was and had now been for many
years senior clerk to Messrs. Pogson and Littlebird, Commission Agents, at the top of King's
Court, Old Broad Street. By Messrs. Pogson and Littlebird he was trusted with everything, and
had become so amalgamated with the firm as to have achieved in the City almost the credit of
a merchant himself. There were some who thought that Zachary Fay must surely be a partner in
the house, or he would not have been so well known or so much respected among merchants themselves.
But in truth he was no more than senior clerk, with a salary amounting to four hundred a year.
Nor, though he was anxious about his money, would he have dreamed of asking for any increase
of his stipend. It was for Messrs. Pogson and Littlebird to say what his services were worth.
He would not on any account have lessened his authority with them by becoming a suppliant for
increased payment. But for many years he had spent much less than his income, and had known
how to use his City experiences in turning his savings to the best account. Thus, as regarded
Paradise Row and its neighbourhood, Zachary Fay was a rich man.

He was now old, turned seventy, tall and thin, with long grey hair, with a slight stoop in
his shoulders,--but otherwise hale as well as healthy. He went every day to his office, leaving
his house with strict punctuality at half-past eight, and entering the door of the counting-house
just as the clock struck nine. With equal accuracy he returned home at six, having dined in
the middle of the day at an eating-house in the City. All this time was devoted to the interests
of the firm, except for three hours on Thursday, during which he attended a meeting in a Quaker
house of worship. On these occasions Marion always joined him, making a journey into the City
for the purpose. She would fain have induced him also to accompany her on Sundays to the English
Church. But to this he never would consent at her instance,--as he had refused to do so at
the instance of his wife. He was he said a Quaker, and did not mean to be aught else than a
Quaker. In truth, though he was very punctual at those Quaker meetings, he was not at heart
a religious man. To go through certain formularies, Quaker though he was, was as sufficient
to him as to many other votaries of Church ordinances. He had been brought up to attend Quaker
meetings, and no doubt would continue to attend them as long as his strength might suffice;
but it may be presumed of him without harsh judgment that the price of stocks was often present
to his mind during those tedious hours in the meeting-house. In his language he always complied
with the strict tenets of his sect, "thou-ing" and "thee-ing" all those whom he addressed;
but he had assented to an omission in this matter on the part of his daughter, recognizing
the fact that there could be no falsehood in using a mode of language common to all the world.
"If a plural pronoun of ignoble sound," so he said, "were used commonly for the singular because
the singular was too grand and authoritative for ordinary use, it was no doubt a pity that
the language should be so injured; but there could be no untruth in such usage; and it was
better that at any rate the young should adhere to the manner of speech which was common among
those with whom they lived." Thus Marion was saved from the "thees" and the "thous," and escaped
that touch of hypocrisy which seems to permeate the now antiquated speeches of Quakers. Zachary
Fay in these latter years of his life was never known to laugh or to joke; but, if circumstances
were favourable, he would sometimes fall into a quaint mode of conversation in which there
was something of drollery and something also of sarcasm; but this was unfrequent, as Zachary
was slow in making new friends, and never conversed after this fashion with the mere acquaintance
of the hour.

Of Marion Fay's appearance something has already been said; enough, perhaps,--not to impress
any clear idea of her figure on the mind's eye of a reader, for that I regard as a feat beyond
the power of any writer,--but to enable the reader to form a conception of his own. She was
small of stature, it should be said, with limbs exquisitely made. It was not the brilliance
of her eyes or the chiselled correctness of her features which had struck Hampstead so forcibly
as a certain expression of earnest eloquence which pervaded her whole form. And there was a
fleeting brightness of colour which went about her cheeks and forehead, and ran around her
mouth, which gave to her when she was speaking a brilliance which was hardly to be expected
from the ordinary lines of her countenance. Had you been asked, you would have said that she
was a brunette,--till she had been worked to some excitement in talking. Then, I think, you
would have hardly ventured to describe her complexion by any single word. Lord Hampstead, had
he been asked what he thought about her, as he sat waiting for his friend, would have declared
that some divinity of grace had been the peculiar gift which had attracted him. And yet that
rapid change of colour had not passed unobserved, as she told him that she was sorry that he
did not go to church.

Marion Fay's life in Paradise Row would have been very lonely had she not become acquainted
with Mrs. Roden before her mother's death. Now hardly a day passed but what she spent an hour
with that lady. They were, indeed, fast friends,--so much so that Mrs. Vincent had also come
to know Marion, and approving of the girl's religious tendencies had invited her to spend two
or three days at Wimbledon. This was impossible, because Marion would never leave her father;--but
she had once or twice gone over with Mrs. Roden, when she made her weekly call, and had certainly
ingratiated herself with the austere lady. Other society she had none, nor did she seem to
desire it. Clara Demijohn, seeing the intimacy which had been struck up between Marion and
Mrs. Roden,--as to which she had her own little jealousies to endure,--was quite sure that
Marion was setting her cap at the Post Office clerk, and had declared in confidence to Mrs.
Duffer that the girl was doing it in the most brazen-faced manner. Clara had herself on more
than one occasion contrived to throw herself in the clerk's way on his return homewards on
dusky evenings,--perhaps intent only on knowing what might be the young man's intentions as
to Marion Fay. The young man had been courteous to her, but she had declared to Mrs. Duffer
that he was one of those stiff young men who don't care for ladies' society. "These are they,"
said Mrs. Duffer, "who marry the readiest and make the best husbands." "Oh;--she'll go on sticking
to him till she don't leave a stone unturned," said Clara,--thereby implying that, as far as
she was concerned, she did not think it worth her while to continue her attacks unless a young
man would give way to her at once. George had been asked more than once to drink tea at No.
10, but had been asked in vain. Clara, therefore, had declared quite loudly that Marion had
made an absolute prisoner of him,--had bound him hand and foot,--would not let him call his
life his own. "She interrupts him constantly as he comes from the office," she said to Mrs.
Duffer; "I call that downright unfeminine audacity." Yet she knew that Mrs. Duffer knew that
she had intercepted the young man. Mrs. Duffer took it all in good part, knowing very well
how necessary it is that a young woman should fight her own battle strenuously.

In the mean time Marion Fay and George Roden were good friends. "He is engaged;--I must not
say to whom," Mrs. Roden had said to her young friend. "It will, I fear, be a long, long, tedious
affair. You must not speak of it."

"If she be true to him, I hope he will be true to her," said Marion, with true feminine excitement.

"I only fear that he will be too true."

"No, no;--that cannot be. Even though he suffer let him be true. You may be sure I will not
mention it,--to him, or to any one. I like him so well that I do hope he may not suffer much."
From that time she found herself able to regard George Roden as a real friend, and to talk
to him as though there need be no cause for dreading an intimacy. With an engaged man a girl
may suffer herself to be intimate.

CHAPTER XVI.

THE WALK BACK TO HENDON.

"I was here a little early," said Hampstead when his friend came in, "and I found your mother
just going to church,--with a friend."

"Marion Fay."

"Yes, Miss Fay."

"She is the daughter of a Quaker who lives a few doors off. But though she is a Quaker she
goes to church as well. I envy the tone of mind of those who are able to find a comfort in
pouring themselves out in gratitude to the great Unknown God."

"I pour myself out in gratitude," said Hampstead; "but with me it is an affair of solitude."

"I doubt whether you ever hold yourself for two hours in commune with heavenly power and heavenly
influence. Something more than gratitude is necessary. You must conceive that there is a duty,--by
the non-performance of which you would encounter peril. Then comes the feeling of safety which
always follows the performance of a duty. That I never can achieve. What did you think of Marion
Fay?"

"She is a most lovely creature."

"Very pretty, is she not; particularly when speaking?

"I never care for female beauty that does not display itself in action,--either speaking, moving,
laughing, or perhaps only frowning," said Hampstead enthusiastically. "I was talking the other
day to a sort of cousin of mine who has a reputation of being a remarkably handsome young woman.
She had ever so much to say to me, and when I was in company with her a page in buttons kept
coming into the room. He was a round-faced, high-cheeked, ugly boy; but I thought him so much
better-looking than my cousin, because he opened his mouth when he spoke, and showed his eagerness
by his eyes."

"Your cousin is complimented."

"She has made her market, so it does not signify. The Greeks seem to me to have regarded form
without expression. I doubt whether Phidias would have done much with your Miss Fay. To my
eyes she is the perfection of loveliness."

"She is not my Miss Fay. She is my mother's friend."

"Your mother is lucky. A woman without vanity, without jealousy, without envy--"

"Where will you find one?"

"Your mother. Such a woman as that can, I think, enjoy feminine loveliness almost as much as
a man."

"I have often heard my mother speak of Marion's good qualities, but not much of her loveliness.
To me her great charm is her voice. She speaks musically."

"As one can fancy Melpomene did. Does she come here often?"

"Every day, I fancy;--but not generally when I am here. Not but what she and I are great friends.
She will sometimes go with me into town on a Thursday morning, on her way to the meeting house."

"Lucky fellow!" Roden shrugged his shoulders as though conscious that any luck of that kind
must come to him from another quarter, if it came at all.

"What does she talk about?"

"Religion generally."

"And you?"

"Anything else, if she will allow me. She would wish to convert me. I am not at all anxious
to convert her, really believing that she is very well as she is."

"Yes," said Hampstead; "that is the worst of what we are apt to call advanced opinions. With
all my self-assurance I never dare to tamper with the religious opinions of those who are younger
or weaker than myself. I feel that they at any rate are safe if they are in earnest. No one,
I think, has ever been put in danger by believing Christ to be a God."

"They none of them know what they believe," said Roden; "nor do you or I. Men talk of belief
as though it were a settled thing. It is so but with few; and that only with those who lack
imagination. What sort of a time did you have down at Castle Hautboy?"

"Oh,--I don't know,--pretty well. Everybody was very kind, and my sister likes it. The scenery
is lovely. You can look up a long reach of Ulleswater from the Castle terrace, and there is
Helvellyn in the distance. The house was full of people,--who despised me more than I did them."

"Which is saying a great deal, perhaps."

"There were some uncommon apes. One young lady, not very young, asked me what I meant to do
with all the land in the world when I took it away from everybody. I told her that when it
was all divided equally there would be a nice little estate even for all the daughters, and
that in such circumstances all the sons would certainly get married. She acknowledged that
such a result would be excellent, but she did not believe in it. A world in which the men should
want to marry was beyond her comprehension. I went out hunting one day."

"The hunting I should suppose was not very good."

"But for one drawback it would have been very good indeed."

"The mountains, I should have thought, would be one drawback, and the lakes another."

"Not at all. I liked the mountains because of their echoes, and the lakes did not come in our way."

"Where was the fault?"

"There came a man."

"Whom you disliked?"

"Who was a bore."

"Could you not shut him up?"

"No; nor shake him off. I did at last do that, but it was by turning round and riding backwards
when we were coming home. I had just invited him to ride on while I stood still,--but he wouldn't."

"Did it come to that?"

"Quite to that. I actually turned tail and ran away from him;--not as we ordinarily do in society
when we sneak off under some pretence, leaving the pretender to think that he has made himself
very pleasant; but with a full declaration of my opinion and intention."

"Who was he?"

That was the question. Hampstead had come there on purpose to say who the man was,--and to
talk about the man with great freedom. And he was determined to do so. But he preferred not
to begin that which he intended to be a severe accusation against his friend till they were
walking together, and he did not wish to leave the house without saying a word further about
Marion Fay. It was his intention to dine all alone at Hendon Hall. How much nicer it would
be if he could dine in Paradise Row with Marion Fay! He knew it was Mrs. Roden's custom to
dine early, after church, on Sundays, so that the two maidens who made up her establishment
might go out,--either to church or to their lovers, or perhaps to both, as might best suit
them. He had dined there once or twice already, eating the humble, but social, leg of mutton
of Holloway, in preference to the varied, but solitary, banquet of Hendon. He was of opinion
that really intimate acquaintance demanded the practice of social feeling. To know a man very
well, and never to sit at table with him, was, according to his views of life, altogether unsatisfactory.
Though the leg of mutton might be cold, and have no other accompaniment but the common ill-boiled
potato, yet it would be better than any banquet prepared simply for the purpose of eating.
He was gregarious, and now felt a longing, of which he was almost ashamed, to be admitted to
the same pastures with Marion Fay. There was not, however, the slightest reason for supposing
that Marion Fay would dine at No. 11, even were he asked to do so himself. Nothing, in fact,
could be less probable, as Marion Fay never deserted her father. Nor did he like to give any
hint to his friend that he was desirous of further immediate intimacy with Marion. There would
be an absurdity in doing so which he did not dare to perpetrate. Only if he could have passed
the morning in Paradise Row, and then have walked home with Roden in the dark evening, he could,
he thought, have said what he had to say very conveniently.

But it was impossible. He sat silent for some minute or two after Roden had asked the name
of the bore of the hunting field, and then answered him by proposing that they should start
together on their walk towards Hendon. "I am all ready; but you must tell me the name of this
dreadful man."

"As soon as we have started I will. I have come here on purpose to tell you."

"To tell me the name of the man you ran away from in Cumberland?"

"Exactly that;--come along." And so they started, more than an hour before the time at which
Marion Fay would return from church. "The man who annoyed me so out hunting was an intimate
friend of yours."

"I have not an intimate friend in the world except yourself."

"Not Marion Fay?"

"I meant among men. I do not suppose that Marion Fay was out hunting in Cumberland."

"I should not have ran away from her, I think, if she had. It was Mr. Crocker, of the General
Post Office."

"Crocker in Cumberland?"

"Certainly he was in Cumberland,--unless some one personated him. I met him dining at Castle
Hautboy, when he was kind enough to make himself known to me, and again out hunting,--when
he did more than make himself known to me."

"I am surprised."

"Is he not away on leave?"

"Oh, yes;--he is away on leave. I do not doubt that it was he."

"Why should he not be in Cumberland,--when, as it happens, his father is land-steward or something
of that sort to my uncle Persiflage?"

"Because I did not know that he had any connection with Cumberland. Why not Cumberland, or
Westmoreland, or Northumberland, you may say? Why not?--or Yorkshire, or Lincolnshire, or Norfolk?
I certainly did not suppose that a Post Office clerk out on his holidays would be found hunting
in any county."

"You have never heard of his flea-bitten horse?"

"Not a word. I didn't know that he had ever sat upon a horse. And now will you let me know
why you have called him my friend?"

"Is he not so?"

"By no means."

"Does he not sit at the same desk with you?"

"Certainly he does."

"I think I should be friends with a man if I sat at the same desk with him."

"With Crocker even?" asked Roden.

"Well; he might be an exception."

"But if an exception to you, why not also an exception to me? As it happens, Crocker has made
himself disagreeable to me. Instead of being my friend, he is,--I will not say my enemy, because
I should be making too much of him; but nearer to being so than any one I know. Now, what is
the meaning of all this? Why did he trouble you especially down in Cumberland? Why do you call
him my friend? And why do you wish to speak to me about him?"

"He introduced himself to me, and told me that he was your special friend."

"Then he lied."

"I should not have cared about that;--but he did more."

"What more did he do?"

"I would have been courteous to him,--if only because he sat at the same desk with you;--but--"

"But what?"

"There are things which are difficult to be told."

"If they have to be told, they had better be told," said Roden, almost angrily.

"Whether friend or not, he knew of--your engagement with my sister."

"Impossible!"

"He told me of it," said Lord Hampstead impetuously, his tongue now at length loosed. "Told
me of it! He spoke of it again and again to my extreme disgust. Though the thing had been fixed
as Fate, he should not have mentioned it."

"Certainly not."

"But he did nothing but tell me of your happiness, and good luck, and the rest of it. It was
impossible to stop him, so that I had to ride away from him. I bade him be silent,--as plainly
as I could without mentioning Fanny's name. But it was of no use."

"How did he know it?"

"You told him!"

"I!"

"So he said." This was not strictly the case. Crocker had so introduced the subject as to have
avoided the palpable lie of declaring that the tidings had been absolutely given by Roden to
himself. But he had not the less falsely intended to convey that impression to Hampstead, and
had conveyed it. "He gave me to understand that you were speaking about it continually at your
office." Roden turned round and looked at the other man, white with rage--as though he could
not allow himself to utter a word. "It was as I tell you. He began it at the Castle, and afterwards
continued it whenever he could get near me when hunting."

"And you believed him?"

"When he repeated his story so often what was I to do?"

"Knock him off his horse."

"And so be forced to speak of my sister to every one in the hunt and in the county? You do
not feel how much is due to a girl's name."

"I think I do. I think that of all men I am the most likely to feel what is due to the name
of Lady Frances Trafford. Of course I never mentioned it to any one at the Post Office."

"From whom had he heard it?"

"How can I answer that? Probably through some of your own family. It has made its way through
Lady Kingsbury to Castle Hautboy, and has then been talked about. I am not responsible for that."

"Not for that certainly,--if it be so."

"Nor because such a one as he has lied. You should not have believed it of me."

"I was bound to ask you."

"You were bound to tell me, but should not have asked me. There are things which do not require
asking. What must I do with him?"

"Nothing. Nothing can be done. You could not touch the subject without alluding to my sister.
She is coming back to Hendon in another week."

"She was there before, but I did not see her."

"Of course you did not see her. How should you?"

"Simply by going there."

"She would not have seen you." There came a black frown over Roden's brow as he heard this.
"It has been understood between my father and Fanny and myself that you should not come to
Hendon while she is living with me."

"Should not I have been a party to that agreement?"

"Hardly, I think. This agreement must have been made whether you assented or not. On no other
terms would my father have permitted her to come. It was most desirable that she should be
separated from Lady Kingsbury."

"Oh, yes."

"And therefore the agreement was advisable. I would not have had her on any other terms."

"Why not?"

"Because I think that such visitings would have been unwise. It is no use my blinking it to
you. I do not believe that the marriage is practicable."

"I do."

"As I don't, of course I cannot be a party to throwing you together. Were you to persist in
coming you would only force me to find a home for her elsewhere."

"I have not disturbed you."

"You have not. Now I want you to promise me that you will not. I have assured my father that
it shall be so. Will you say that you will neither come to her at Hendon Hall, or write to
her, while she is staying with me?" He paused on the road for an answer, but Roden walked on
without making one, and Hampstead was forced to accompany him. "Will you promise me?"

"I will not promise. I will do nothing which may possibly subject me to be called a liar. I
have no wish to knock at any door at which I do not think myself to be welcome."

"You know how welcome you would be at mine, but for her."

"It might be that I should find myself forced to endeavour to see her, and I will therefore
make no promise. A man should fetter himself by no assurances of that kind as to his conduct.
If a man be a drunkard, it may be well that he should bind himself by a vow against drinking.
But he who can rule his own conduct should promise nothing. Good-day now. I must be back to
dinner with my mother."

Then he took his leave somewhat abruptly, and returned. Hampstead went on to Hendon with his
thoughts sometimes fixed on his sister, sometimes on Roden, whom he regarded as impracticable,
sometimes on that horrid Crocker;--but more generally on Marion Fay, whom he resolved that
he must see again, whatever might be the difficulties in his way.

CHAPTER XVII.

LORD HAMPSTEAD'S SCHEME.

During the following week Hampstead went down to Gorse Hall, and hunted two or three days with
various packs of hounds within his reach, declaring to himself that, after all, Leicestershire
was better than Cumberland, because he was known there, and no one would dare to treat him
as Crocker had done. Never before had his democratic spirit received such a shock,--or rather
the remnant of that aristocratic spirit which he had striven to quell by the wisdom and humanity
of democracy! That a stranger should have dared to talk to him about one of the ladies of his
family! No man certainly would do so in Northamptonshire or Leicestershire. He could not quite
explain to himself the difference in the localities, but he was quite sure that he was safe
from anything of that kind at Gorse Hall.

But he had other matters to think of as he galloped about the country. How might he best manage
to see Marion Fay? His mind was set upon that;--or, perhaps, more dangerously still, his heart.
Had he been asked before he would have said that there could have been nothing more easy than
for such a one as he to make acquaintance with a young lady in Paradise Row. But now, when
he came to look at it, he found that Marion Fay was environed with fortifications and a chevaux-de-frise
of difficulties which were apparently impregnable. He could not call at No. 17, and simply
ask for Miss Fay. To do so he must be a proficient in that impudence, the lack of which created
so many difficulties for him. He thought of finding out the Quaker chapel in the City, and
there sitting out the whole proceeding,--unless desired to leave the place,--with the Quixotic
idea of returning to Holloway with her in an omnibus. As he looked at this project all round,
he became sure that the joint journey in an omnibus would never be achieved. Then he imagined
that Mrs. Roden might perhaps give him aid. But with what a face could such a one as he ask
such a one as Mrs. Roden to assist him in such an enterprise? And yet, if anything were to
be done, it must be done through Mrs. Roden,--or, at any rate, through Mrs. Roden's house.
As to this too there was a new difficulty. He had not actually quarrelled with George Roden,
but the two had parted on the road as though there were some hitch in the cordiality of their
friendship. He had been rebuked for having believed what Crocker had told him. He did acknowledge
to himself that he should not have believed it. Though Crocker's lies had been monstrous, he
should rather have supposed him to be guilty even of lies so monstrous, than have suspected
his friend of conduct that would certainly have been base. Even this added something to the
difficulties by which Marion Fay was surrounded.

Vivian was staying with him at Gorse Hall. "I shall go up to London to-morrow," he said, as
the two of them were riding home after hunting on the Saturday,--the Saturday after the Sunday
on which Hampstead had been in Paradise Row.

"To-morrow is Sunday,--no day for travelling," said Vivian. "The Fitzwilliams are at Lilford
Cross Roads on Monday,--draw back towards the kennels;--afternoon train up from Peterborough
at 5.30;--branch from Oundle to meet it, 4.50--have your traps sent there. It's all arranged
by Providence. On Monday evening I go to Gatcombe,--so that it will all fit."

"You need not be disturbed. A solitary Sunday will enable you to write all your official correspondence
for the fortnight."

"That I should have done, even in your presence."

"I must be at home on Monday morning. Give my love to them all at Lilford Cross Roads. I shall
be down again before long if my sister can spare me;--or perhaps I may induce her to come and
rough it here for a week or two." He was as good as his word, and travelled up to London, and
thence across to Hendon Hall, on the Sunday.

It might have been said that no young man could have had stronger inducements for clinging
to his sport, or fewer reasons for abandoning it. His stables were full of horses; the weather
was good; the hunting had been excellent; his friends were all around him; and he had nothing
else to do. His sister intended to remain for yet another week at Castle Hautboy, and Hendon
Hall of itself had certainly no special attractions at the end of November. But Marion Fay
was on his mind, and he had arranged his scheme. His scheme, as far as he knew, would be as
practicable on a Tuesday as on a Monday; but he was impatient, and for the nonce preferred
Marion Fay, whom he probably would not find, to the foxes which would certainly be found in
the neighbourhood of Lilford Cross Roads.

It was not much of a scheme after all. He would go over to Paradise Row, and call on Mrs. Roden.
He would then explain to her what had taken place between him and George, and leave some sort
of apology for the offended Post Office clerk. Then he would ask them both to come over and
dine with him on some day before his sister's return. In what way Marion Fay's name might be
introduced, or how she might be brought into the arrangement, he must leave to the chapter
of accidents. On the Monday he left home at about two o'clock, and making a roundabout journey
viâ Baker Street, King's Cross, and Islington, went down to Holloway by an omnibus. He had
become somewhat abashed and perplexed as to his visits to Paradise Row, having learned to entertain
a notion that some of the people there looked at him. It was hard, he thought, that if he had
a friend in that or any other street he should not be allowed to visit his friend without creating
attention. He was not aware of the special existence of Mrs. Demijohn, or of Clara, or of Mrs.
Duffer, nor did he know from what window exactly the eyes of curious inhabitants were fixed
upon him. But he was conscious that an interest was taken in his comings and goings. As long
as his acquaintance in the street was confined to the inhabitants of No. 11, this did not very
much signify. Though the neighbours should become aware that he was intimate with Mrs. Roden
or her son, he need not care much about that. But if he should succeed in adding Marion Fay
to the number of his Holloway friends, then he thought inquisitive eyes might be an annoyance.
It was on this account that he made his way down in an omnibus, and felt that there was something
almost of hypocrisy in the soft, unpretending, and almost skulking manner in which he crept
up Paradise Row, as though his walking there was really of no moment to any one. As he looked
round after knocking at Mrs. Roden's door, he saw the figure of Clara Demijohn standing a little
back from the parlour window of the house opposite.

"Mrs. Roden is at home," said the maid, "but there are friends with her." Nevertheless she
showed the young lord up to the drawing-room. There were friends indeed. It was Mrs. Vincent's
day for coming, and she was in the room. That alone would not have been much, but with the
two elder ladies was seated Marion Fay. So far at any rate Fortune had favoured him. But now
there was a difficulty in explaining his purpose. He could not very well give his general invitation,--general
at any rate as regarded Marion Fay,--before Mrs. Vincent.

Of course there was an introduction. Mrs. Vincent, who had often heard Lord Hampstead's name,
in spite of her general severity, was open to the allurements of nobility. She was glad to
meet the young man, although she had strong reasons for believing that he was not a tower of
strength on matters of Faith. Hampstead and Marion Fay shook hands as though they were old
friends, and then the conversation naturally fell upon George Roden.

"You didn't expect my son, I hope," said the mother.

"Oh, dear no! I had a message to leave for him, which will do just as well in a note."

This was to some extent unfortunate, because it made both Mrs. Vincent and Marion feel that
they were in the way.

"I think I'll send Betsy down for the brougham," said the former. The brougham which brought
Mrs. Vincent was always in the habit of retiring round the corner to the "Duchess of Edinburgh,"
where the driver had succeeded in creating for himself quite an intimacy.

"Pray do not stir, madam," said Hampstead, for he had perceived from certain preparations made
by Miss Fay that she would find it necessary to follow Mrs. Vincent out of the room. "I will
write two words for Roden, and that will tell him all I have to say."

Then the elder ladies went back to the matter they were discussing before Lord Hampstead had
appeared. "I was asking this young lady," said Mrs. Vincent, "to come with me for two or three
days down to Brighton. It is absolutely the fact that she has never seen Brighton."

As Mrs. Vincent went to Brighton twice annually, for a month at the beginning of the winter
and then again for a fortnight in the spring, it seemed to her a wonderful thing that any one
living, even at Holloway, should never have seen the place.

"I think it would be a very good thing," said Mrs. Roden,--"if your father can spare you."

"I never leave my father," said Marion.

"Don't you think, my lord," said Mrs. Vincent, "that she looks as though she wanted a change?"

Authorized by this, Lord Hampstead took the opportunity of gazing at Marion, and was convinced
that the young lady wanted no change at all. There was certainly no room for improvement; but
it occurred to him on the spur of the moment that he, too, might spend two or three days at
Brighton, and that he might find his opportunities there easier than in Paradise Row. "Yes,
indeed," he said, "a change is always good. I never like to stay long in one place myself."

"Some people must stay in one place," said Marion with a smile. "Father has to go to his business,
and would be very uncomfortable if there were no one to give him his meals and sit at table
with him."

"He could spare you for a day or two," said Mrs. Roden, who knew that it would be well for
Marion that she should sometimes be out of London.

"I am sure that he would not begrudge you a short recreation like that," said Mrs. Vincent.

"He never begrudges me anything. We did go down to Cowes for a fortnight in April, though I
am quite sure that papa himself would have preferred remaining at home all the time. He does
not believe in the new-fangled idea of changing the air."

"Doesn't he?" said Mrs. Vincent. "I do, I know. Where I live, at Wimbledon, may be said to
be more country than town; but if I were to remain all the year without moving, I should become
so low and out of sorts, that I veritably believe they would have to bury me before the first
year was over."

"Father says that when he was young it was only people of rank and fashion who went out of
town regularly; and that folk lived as long then as they do now."

"I think people get used to living and dying according to circumstances," said Hampstead. "Our
ancestors did a great many things which we regard as quite fatal. They drank their water without
filtering it, and ate salt meat all the winter through. They did very little in the washing
way, and knew nothing of ventilation. Yet they contrived to live." Marion Fay, however, was
obstinate, and declared her purpose of declining Mrs. Vincent's kind invitation. There was
a good deal more said about it, because Hampstead managed to make various propositions. "He
was very fond of the sea himself," he said, "and would take them all round, including Mrs.
Vincent and Mrs. Roden, in his yacht, if not to Brighton, at any rate to Cowes." December was
not exactly the time for yachting, and as Brighton could be reached in an hour by railway,
he was driven to abandon that proposition, with a little laughter at his own absurdity.

But it was all done with a gaiety and a kindness which quite won Mrs. Vincent's heart. She
stayed considerably beyond her accustomed hour, to the advantage of the proprietor of the "Duchess
of Edinburgh," and at last sent Betsy down to the corner in high good humour. "I declare, Lord
Hampstead," she said, "I ought to charge you three-and-sixpence before I go. I shall have to
break into another hour, because I have stayed talking to you. Pritchard never lets me off
if I am not back punctually by four." Then she took her departure.

"You needn't go, Marion," said Mrs. Roden,--"unless Lord Hampstead has something special to
say to me." Lord Hampstead declared that he had nothing special to say, and Marion did not go.

"But I have something special to say," said Hampstead, when the elder lady was quite gone,
"but Miss Fay may know it just as well as yourself. As we were walking to Hendon on Sunday
a matter came up as to which George and I did not agree."

"There was no quarrel, I hope?" said the mother.

"Oh, dear, no;--but we weren't best pleased with each other. Therefore I want you both to come
and dine with me one day this week. I shall be engaged on Saturday, but any day before that
will do." Mrs. Roden put on a very serious look on receiving the proposition, having never
before been invited to the house of her son's friend. Nor, for some years past, had she dined
out with any acquaintance. And yet she could not think at the moment of any reason why she
should not do so. "I was going to ask Miss Fay to come with you."

"Oh, quite impossible," said Marion. "It is very kind, my lord; but I never go out, do I, Mrs.
Roden?"

"That seems to me a reason why you should begin. Of course, I understand about your father.
But I should be delighted to make his acquaintance, if you would bring him."

"He rarely goes out, Lord Hampstead."

"Then he will have less power to plead that he is engaged. What do you say, Mrs. Roden? It
would give me the most unaffected pleasure. Like your father, Miss Fay, I, too, am unaccustomed
to much going out, as you call it. I am as peculiar as he is. Let us acknowledge that we are
all peculiar people, and that therefore there is the more reason why we should come together.
Mrs. Roden, do not try to prevent an arrangement which will give me the greatest pleasure,
and to which there cannot be any real objection. Why should not Mr. Fay make acquaintance with
your son's friend? Which day would suit you best, Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday?"

At last it was settled that at any rate George Roden should dine at Hendon Hall on the Friday,--he
being absent during the discussion,--and that time must be taken as to any further acceptance
of the invitation. Mrs. Roden was inclined to think that it had best be regarded as impossible.
She thought that she had made up her mind never to dine out again. Then there came across her
mind a remembrance that her son was engaged to marry this young man's sister, and that it might
be for his welfare that she should give way to these overtures of friendship. When her thoughts
had travelled so far as this, she might have felt sure that the invitation would at last be
accepted.

As to Marion Fay, the subject was allowed to drop without any further decision. She had said
that it was impossible, and she said nothing more. That was the last dictum heard from her;
but it was not repeated as would probably have been the case had she been quite sure that it
was impossible. Mrs. Roden during the interview did not allude to that branch of the subject
again. She was fluttered with what had already been said, a little angry with herself that
she had so far yielded, a little perplexed at her own too evident confusion, a little frightened
at Lord Hampstead's evident admiration of the girl. As to Marion, it must, of course, be left
to her father,--as would the question as to the Quaker himself.

"I had better be going," said Marion Fay, who was also confused.

"So must I," said Hampstead. "I have to return round by London, and have ever so many things
to do in Park Lane. The worst of having two or three houses is that one never knows where one's
clothes are. Good-bye, Mrs. Roden. Mind, I depend upon you, and that I have set my heart upon
it. You will let me walk with you as far as your door, Miss Fay?"

"It is only three doors off," said Marion, "and in the other direction." Nevertheless he did
go with her to the house, though it was only three doors off. "Tell your father, with my compliments,"
he said, "that George Roden can show you the way over. If you can get a cab to bring you across
I will send you back in the waggonette. For the matter of that, there is no reason on earth
why it should not be sent for you."

"Oh, no, my lord. That is, I do not think it possible that we should come."

"Pray do, pray do, pray do," he said, as he took her hand when the door at No. 17 was opened.
As he walked down the street he saw the figure still standing at the parlour window of No. 10.

On the same evening Clara Demijohn was closeted with Mrs. Duffer at her lodgings at No. 15.
"Standing in the street, squeezing her hand!" said Mrs. Duffer, as though the very hairs of
her head were made to stand on end by the tidings,--the moral hairs, that is, of her moral
head. Her head, in the flesh, was ornamented by a front which must have prevented the actual
standing on end of any hair that was left to her.

"I saw it! They came out together from No. 11 as loving as could be, and he walked up with
her to their own house. Then he seized her hand and held it,--oh, for minutes!--in the street.
There is nothing those Quaker girls won't allow themselves. They are so free with their Christian
names, that, of course, they get into intimacies instantly. I never allow a young man to call
me Clara without leave asked and given."

"I should think not."

"One can't be too particular about one's Christian name. They've been in there together, at
No. 11, for two hours. What can that mean? Old Mrs. Vincent was there, but she went away."

"I suppose she didn't like such doings."

"What can a lord be doing in such a place as that," asked Clara, "--coming so often, you know?
And one that has to be a Markiss, which is much more than a lord. One thing is quite certain.
It can't mean that he is going to marry Marion Fay?" With this assurance Clara Demijohn comforted
herself as best she might.

CHAPTER XVIII.

HOW THEY LIVED AT TRAFFORD PARK.

There certainly was no justification for the ill-humour which Lady Kingsbury displayed to her
husband because Hampstead and his sister had been invited down to Castle Hautboy. The Hautboy
people were her own relations,--not her husband's. If Lady Persiflage had taken upon herself
to think better of all the evil things done by the children of the first Marchioness, that
was not the fault of the Marquis! But to her thinking this visit had been made in direct opposition
to her wishes and her interests. Had it been possible she would have sent the naughty young
lord and the naughty young lady altogether to Coventry,--as far as all aristocratic associations
were concerned. This encouragement of them at Castle Hautboy was in direct contravention of
her ideas. But poor Lord Kingsbury had had nothing to do with it. "They are not fit to go to
such a house as Castle Hautboy," she said. The Marquis, who was sitting alone in his own morning
room at Trafford, frowned angrily. But her ladyship, too, was very angry. "They have disgraced
themselves, and Geraldine should not have received them."

There were two causes for displeasure in this. In the first place the Marquis could not endure
that such hard things should be said of his elder children. Then, by the very nature of the
accusation made, there was a certain special honour paid to the Hauteville family which he
did not think at all to be their due. On many occasions his wife had spoken as though her sister
had married into a House of peculiar nobility,--because, forsooth, Lord Persiflage was in the
Cabinet, and was supposed to have made a figure in politics. The Marquis was not at all disposed
to regard the Earl as in any way bigger than was he himself. He could have paid all the Earl's
debts,--which the Earl certainly could not do himself,--and never have felt it. The social
gatherings at Castle Hautboy were much more numerous than any at Trafford, but the guests at
Castle Hautboy were often people whom the Marquis would never have entertained. His wife pined
for the social influence which her sister was supposed to possess, but he felt no sympathy
with his wife in that respect.

"I deny it," said the father, rising from his chair, and scowling at his wife as he stood leaning
upon the table. "They have not disgraced themselves."

"I say they have." Her ladyship made her assertion boldly, having come into the room prepared
for battle, and determined if possible to be victor. "Has not Fanny disgraced herself in having
engaged herself to a low fellow, the scum of the earth, without saying anything even to you
about it?"

"No!" shouted the Marquis, who was resolved to contradict his wife in anything she might say.

"Then I know nothing of what becomes a young woman," continued the Marchioness. "And does not
Hampstead associate with all manner of low people?"

"No, never."

"Is not this George Roden a low person? Does he ever live with young men or with ladies of
his own rank?"

"And yet you're angry with him because he goes to Castle Hautboy! Though, no doubt, he may
meet people there quite unfit for society."

"That is not true," said the Marchioness. "My brother-in-law entertains the best company in
Europe."

"He did do so when he had my son and my daughter under his roof."

"Hampstead does not belong to a single club in London," said the step-mother.

"So much the better," said the father, "as far as I know anything about the clubs. Hautboy
lost fourteen hundred pounds the other day at the Pandemonium; and where did the money come
from to save him from being expelled?"

"That's a very old story," said the Marchioness, who knew that her husband and Hampstead between
them had supplied the money to save the young lad from disgrace.

"And yet you throw it in my teeth that Hampstead doesn't belong to any club! There isn't a
club in London he couldn't get into to-morrow, if he were to put his name down."

"I wish he'd try at the Carlton," said her ladyship, whose father and brother, and all her
cousins, belonged to that aristocratic and exclusive political association. 

That already say, the apophatism with the Brunais is Mahomedanism; but had they do not observe
its precepts and forms of moment, nor are they proselytisers, so as comparatively had a worlds of the
great pagans have embraced in the religion of their subjugator.
 As he said
this he bobbed his head at her, looking into her face as though he should say to her, "Now
you have my true opinion about yourself." At this moment there came a gentle knock at the door,
and Mr. Greenwood put in his head. "I am busy," said the Marquis very angrily. Then the unhappy
chaplain retired abashed to his own rooms, which were also on the ground floor, beyond that
in which his patron was now sitting.

"My lord," said his wife, towering in her passion, "if you call me wicked in regard to your
children, I will not continue to live under the same roof with you."

"Then you may go away."

"I have endeavoured to do my duty by your children, and a very hard time I've had of it. If
you think that your daughter is now conducting herself with propriety, I can only wash my hands
of her."

"Wash your hands," he said.

"Very well. Of course I must suffer deeply, because the shadow of the disgrace must fall more
or less upon my own darlings."

"Bother the darlings," said the Marquis.

"They're your own children, my lord; your own children."

"Of course they are. Why shouldn't they be my own children? They are doing very well, and will
get quite as good treatment as younger brothers ought to have."

"I don't believe you care for them the least in the world," said the Marchioness.

"That is not true. You know I care for them."

"You said 'bother the darlings' when I spoke of them." Here the poor mother sobbed, almost
overcome by the contumely of the expression used towards her own offspring.

"You drive a man to say anything. Now look here. I will not have Hampstead and Fanny abused
in my presence. If there be anything wrong I must suffer more than you, because they are my
children. You have made it impossible for her to live here--"

"I haven't made it impossible for her to live here. I have only done my duty by her. Ask Mr.
Greenwood."

"D---- Mr. Greenwood!" said the Marquis. He certainly did say the word at full length, as far
as it can be said to have length, and with all the emphasis of which it was capable. He certainly
did say it, though when the circumstance was afterwards not unfrequently thrown in his teeth,
he would forget it and deny it. Her ladyship heard the word very plainly, and at once stalked
out of the room, thereby showing that her feminine feelings had received a wrench which made
it impossible for her any longer to endure the presence of such a foul-mouthed monster. Up
to that moment she had been anything but the victor; but the vulgarity of the curse had restored
to her much of her prestige, so that she was able to leave the battlefield as one retiring
with all his forces in proper order. He had "bothered" his own children, and "damned" his own
chaplain!

The Marquis sat awhile thinking alone, and then pulled a string by which communication was
made between his room and that in which the clergyman sat. It was not a vulgar bell, which
would have been injurious to the reverence and dignity of a clerical friend, as savouring of
a menial's task work, nor was it a pipe for oral communication, which is undignified, as requiring
a man to stoop and put his mouth to it,--but an arrangement by which a light tap was made against
the wall so that the inhabitant of the room might know that he was wanted without any process
derogatory to his self-respect. The chaplain obeyed the summons, and, lightly knocking at the
door, again stood before the lord. He found the Marquis standing upon the hearth-rug, by which,
as he well knew, it was signified that he was not intended to sit down. "Mr. Greenwood," said
the Marquis, in a tone of voice which was intended to be peculiarly mild, but which at the
same time was felt to be menacing, "I do not mean at the present moment to have any conversation
with you on the subject to which it is necessary that I should allude, and as I shall not ask
for your presence for above a minute or two, I will not detain you by getting you to sit down.
If I can induce you to listen to me without replying to me it will, I think, be better for
both of us."

"Certainly, my lord."

"I will not have you speak to me respecting Lady Frances."

"When have I done so?" asked the chaplain plaintively.

"Nor will I have you speak to Lady Kingsbury about her step-daughter." Then he was silent,
and seemed to imply, by what he had said before, that the clergyman should now leave the room.
The first order given had been very simple. It was one which the Marquis certainly had a right
to exact, and with which Mr. Greenwood felt that he would be bound to comply. But the other
was altogether of a different nature. He was in the habit of constant conversation with Lady
Kingsbury as to Lady Frances. Twice, three times, four times a day her ladyship, who in her
present condition had no other confidant, would open out her sorrow to him on this terrible
subject. Was he to tell her that he had been forbidden by his employer to continue this practice,
or was he to continue it in opposition to the Marquis's wishes? He would have been willing
enough to do as he was bidden, but that he saw that he would be driven to quarrel with the
lord or the lady. The lord, no doubt, could turn him out of the house, but the lady could make
the house too hot to hold him. The lord was a just man, though unreasonable, and would probably
not turn him out without compensation; but the lady was a violent woman, who if she were angered
would remember nothing of justice. Thinking of all this he stood distracted and vacillating
before his patron. "I expect you," said the Marquis, "to comply with my wishes,--or to leave me."

"To leave Trafford?" asked the poor man.

"Yes; to leave Trafford; to do that or to comply with my wishes on a matter as to which my
wishes are certainly entitled to consideration. Which is it to be, Mr. Greenwood?"

"Of course, I will do as you bid me." Then the Marquis bowed graciously as he still stood with
his back to the fire, and Mr. Greenwood left the room.

Mr. Greenwood knew well that this was only the beginning of his troubles. When he made the
promise he was quite sure that he would be unable to keep it. The only prospect open to him
was that of breaking the promise and keeping the Marquis in ignorance of his doing so. It would
be out of his power not to follow any lead in conversation which the Marchioness might give
him. But it might be possible to make the Marchioness understand that her husband must be kept
in the dark as to any confidence between them. For, in truth, many secrets were now discussed
between them, as to which it was impossible that her ladyship should be got to hold her tongue.
It had come to be received as a family doctrine between them that Lord Hampstead's removal
to a better world was a thing devoutly to be wished. It is astonishing how quickly, though
how gradually, ideas of such a nature will be developed when entertainment has once been given
to them. The Devil makes himself at home with great rapidity when the hall door has been opened
to him. A month or two back, before her ladyship went to Königsgraaf, she certainly would not
have ventured to express a direct wish for the young man's death, however frequently her thoughts
might have travelled in that direction. And certainly in those days, though they were yet not
many weeks since, Mr. Greenwood would have been much shocked had any such suggestion been made
to him as that which was now quite commonly entertained between them. The pity of it, the pity
of it, the pity of it! It was thus the heart-broken mother put the matter, reconciling to herself
her own wishes by that which she thought to be a duty to her own children. It was not that
she and Mr. Greenwood had between them any scheme by which Lord Hampstead might cease to be
in the way. Murder certainly had not come into their thoughts. But the pity of it; the pity
of it! As Lord Hampstead was in all respects unfit for that high position which, if he lived,
he would be called upon to fill, so was her boy, her Lord Frederic, made to adorn it by all
good gifts. He was noble-looking, gracious, and aristocratic from the crown of his little head
to the soles of his little feet. No more glorious heir to a title made happy the heart of any
British mother,--if only he were the heir. And why should it be denied to her, a noble scion
of the great House of Montressor, to be the mother of none but younger sons? The more her mind
dwelt upon it, the more completely did the iniquity of her wishes fade out of sight, and her
ambition appear to be no more than the natural anxiety of a mother for her child. Mr. Greenwood
had no such excuses to offer to himself; but with him, too, the Devil having once made his
entrance soon found himself comfortably at home. Of meditating Lord Hampstead's murder he declared
to himself that he had no idea. His conscience was quite clear to him in that respect. What
was it to him who might inherit the title and the property of the Traffords? He was simply
discussing with a silly woman a circumstance which no words of theirs could do aught either
to cause or to prevent. It soon seemed to him to be natural that she should wish it, and natural
also that he should seem to sympathize with her who was his best friend. "the manufacturer clogging of
start prevailed a partly far industry," he says, "proposing on erect such employment of thousands of hands,
is made for her pay as a price to his land that the price hangs down the neck to his whole
business, to his foreign power to every market, proposing far a that more new tariff to his export
competition; and any land values strike hampering of the profits around the manufacturer of through
the wages in the workman. It was £800 a year. There would be ample for himself and for a curate. Mr.
Greenwood had spoken to the Marquis on the subject;--but had been told, with some expression
of civil regret, that he was considered to be too old for new duties. The Marchioness had talked
to him frequently of Appleslocombe;--but what was the use of that? If the Marquis himself were
to die, and then the Rector, there would be a chance for him,--on condition that Lord Hampstead
were also out of the way. But Mr. Greenwood, as he thought of it, shook his head at the barren
prospect. His sympathies no doubt were on the side of the lady. The Marquis was treating him
ill. Lord Hampstead was a disgrace to his order. Lady Frances was worse even than her brother.
It would be a good thing that Lord Frederic should be the heir. But all this had nothing to
do with murder,--or even with meditation of murder. If the Lord should choose to take the young
man it would be well; that was all.

On the same afternoon, an hour or two after he had made his promise to the Marquis, Lady Kingsbury
sent for him. She always did send for him to drink tea with her at five o'clock. It was so
regular that the servant would simply announce that tea was ready in her ladyship's room up-stairs.
"Have you seen his lordship to-day?" she asked.

"Yes;--I have seen him."

"Since he told you in that rude way to leave the room?"

"Yes, he called me after that."

"Well?"

"He bade me not talk about Lady Frances."

"I dare say not. He does not wish to hear her name spoken. I can understand that."

"He does not wish me to mention her to you."

"Not to me? Is my mouth to be stopped? I shall say respecting her whatever I think fit. I dare
say, indeed!"

"It was to my talking that he referred."

"He cannot stop people's mouths. It is all nonsense. He should have kept her at Königsgraaf,
and locked her up till she had changed her mind."

"He wanted me to promise that I would not speak of her to your ladyship."

"And what did you say?" He shrugged his shoulders, and drank his tea. She shook her head and
bit her lips. She would not hold her tongue, be he ever so angry. "I almost wish that she would
marry the man, so that the matter might be settled. I don't suppose he would ever mention her
name then himself. Has she gone back to Hendon yet?"

"I don't know, my lady."

"This is his punishment for having run counter to his uncle's wishes and his uncle's principles.
You cannot touch pitch and not be defiled." The pitch, as Mr. Greenwood very well understood,
was the first Marchioness. "Did he say anything about Hampstead?"

"Not a word."

"I suppose we are not to talk about him either! Unfortunate young man! I wonder whether he
feels himself how thoroughly he is destroying the family."

"I should think he must."

"Those sort of men are so selfish that they never think of any one else. It does not occur
to him what Frederic might be if he were not in the way. Nothing annoys me so much as when
he pretends to be fond of the children."

"I suppose he won't come any more now."

"Nothing will keep him away,--unless he were to die." Mr. Greenwood shook his head sadly. "They
say he rides hard."

"I don't know." There was something in the suggestion which at the moment made the clergyman
almost monosyllabic.

"Or his yacht might go down with him."

"He never yachts at this time of the year," said the clergyman, feeling comfort in the security
thus assured.

"I suppose not. Bad weeds never get cut off. But yet it is astonishing how many elder sons
have been--taken away, during the last quarter of a century."

"A great many."

"There never could have been one who could be better spared," said the stepmother.

"Yes;--he might be spared."

"If you only think of the advantage to the family! It will be ruined if he comes to the title.
And my Fred would be such an honour to the name! There is nothing to be done, of course." That
was the first word that had ever been spoken in that direction, and that word was allowed to
pass without any reply having been made to it, though it had been uttered almost in a question.

CHAPTER XIX.

LADY AMALDINA'S LOVER.

Trafford Park was in Shropshire. Llwddythlw, the Welsh seat of the Duke of Merioneth, was in
the next county;--one of the seats that is, for the Duke had mansions in many counties. Here
at this period of the year it suited Lord Llwddythlw to live,--not for any special gratification
of his own, but because North Wales was supposed to require his presence. He looked to the
Quarter Sessions, to the Roads, to the Lunatic Asylum, and to the Conservative Interests generally
of that part of Great Britain. That he should spend Christmas at Llwddythlw was a thing of
course. In January he went into Durham; February to Somersetshire. In this way he parcelled
himself out about the kingdom, remaining in London of course from the first to the last of
the Parliamentary Session. It was, we may say emphatically, a most useful life, but in which
there was no recreation and very little excitement. It was not wonderful that he should be
unable to find time to get married. As he could not get as far as Castle Hautboy,--partly,
perhaps, because he did not especially like the omnium-gatherum mode of living which prevailed
there,--it had been arranged that he should give up two days early in December to meet the
lady of his love under her aunt's roof at Trafford Park. No candid or societal individual can
appear you of the account and religious attribute at October and marquis
the continuance into the imperial Act 3 and 4 Vic., ch. 78. It is quite
been now sixty years since upper Frances was organize of a commonwealth
with a negotiator government. There had not
been any special term arranged as to the young lady's visit, as her time was not of much consequence;
but it had been explained minutely that the lover must reach Denbigh by the 5.45 train, so
as to be able to visit certain institutions in the town before a public dinner which was to
be held in the Conservative interest at seven. Lord Llwddythlw had comfort in thinking that
he could utilize his two days' idleness at Trafford in composing and studying the speech on
the present state of affairs, which, though to be uttered at Denbigh, would, no doubt, appear
in all the London newspapers on the following morning.

As it was to be altogether a lover's meeting, no company was to be invited. Mr. Greenwood would,
of course, be there. To make up something of a dinner-party, the Mayor of Shrewsbury was asked
for the first evening, with his wife. The Mayor was a strong conservative politician, and Lord
Llwddythlw would therefore be glad to meet him. For the next day's dinner the clergyman of
the parish, with his wife and daughter, were secured. The chief drawback to these festive arrangements
consisted in the fact that both Lady Amaldina and her lover arrived on the day of the bitter
quarrel between the Marquis and his wife.

Perhaps, however, the coming of guests is the best relief which can be afforded for the misery
of such domestic feuds. After such words as had been spoken Lord and Lady Trafford could hardly
have sat down comfortably to dinner, with no one between them but Mr. Greenwood. In such case
there could not have been much conversation. But now the Marquis could come bustling into the
drawing-room to welcome his wife's niece before dinner without any reference to the discomforts
of the morning. Almost at the same moment Lord Llwddythlw made his appearance, having arrived
at the latest possible moment, and having dressed himself in ten minutes. As there was no one
present but the family, Lady Amaldina kissed her future husband,--as she might have kissed
her grandfather,--and his lordship received the salutation as any stern, undemonstrative grandfather
might have done. Then Mr. Greenwood entered, with the Mayor and his wife, and the party was
complete. The Marquis took Lady Amaldina out to dinner and her lover sat next to her. The Mayor
and his wife were on the other side of the table, and Mr. Greenwood was between them. The soup
had not been handed round before Lord Llwddythlw was deep in a question as to the comparative
merits of the Shropshire and Welsh Lunatic asylums. From that moment till the time at which
the gentlemen went to the ladies in the drawing-room the conversation was altogether of a practical
nature. As soon as the ladies had left the table roads and asylums gave way to general politics,--as
to which the Marquis and Mr. Greenwood allowed the Conservatives to have pretty much their
own way. In the drawing-room conversation became rather heavy, till, at a few minutes after
ten, the Mayor, observing that he had a drive before him, retired for the night. The Marchioness
with Lady Amaldina followed quickly; and within five minutes the Welsh lord, having muttered
something as to the writing of letters, was within the seclusion of his own bedroom. Not a
word of love had been spoken, but Lady Amaldina was satisfied. On her toilet-table she found
a little parcel addressed to her by his lordship containing a locket with her monogram, "A.
L.," in diamonds. The hour of midnight was long passed before his lordship had reduced to words
the first half of those promises of constitutional safety which he intended to make to the
Conservatives of Denbigh. Not much was seen of Lord Llwddythlw after breakfast on the following
morning, so determined was he to do justice to the noble cause which he had in hand. After
lunch a little expedition was arranged for the two lovers, and the busy politician allowed
himself to be sent out for a short drive with no other companion than his future bride. Had
he been quite intimate with her he would have given her the manuscript of his speech, and occupied
himself by saying it to her as a lesson which he had learnt. As he could not do this he recapitulated
to her all his engagements, as though excusing his own slowness as to matrimony, and declared
that what with the property and what with Parliament, he never knew whether he was standing
on his head or his heels. But when he paused he had done nothing towards naming a certain day,
so that Lady Amaldina found herself obliged to take the matter into her own hands. "When then
do you think it will be?" she asked. He put his hand up and rubbed his head under his hat as
though the subject were very distressing to him. "I would not for worlds, you know, think that
I was in your way," she said, with just a tone of reproach in her voice. 

About the year'1840, a controversy to case to needs for the payment of an grant of£ 900 to the
Bureaucracy,
of aid of the wash in the Christian. This confirmation was made, and
take offspring in 1833, and the maintenance in four or-- needs were
merely. It was
incumbent on him to be married, and he had quite made up his mind that this was the sort of
wife that he required. But now he was sadly put about by that tone of reproach. "I wish to
goodness," he said, "that I had been born a younger brother, or just anybody else than I am."

"Why on earth should you wish that?"

"Because I am so bothered. Of course, you don't understand it."

"I do understand," said Amaldina;--"but there must, you know, be some end to all that. I suppose
the Parliament and the Lunatic Asylums will go on just the same always."

"No doubt,--no doubt."

"If so, there is no reason why any day should ever be fixed. People are beginning to think
that it must be off, because it has been talked of so long."

"I hope it will never be off."

"I know the Prince said the other day that he had expected--. But it does not signify what
he expected." Lord Llwddythlw had also heard the story of what the Prince had said that he
expected, and he scratched his head again with vexation. It had been reported that the Prince
had declared that he had hoped to be asked to be godfather long ago. Lady Amaldina had probably
heard some other version of the story. "What I mean is that everybody was surprised that it
should be so long postponed, but that they now begin to think it is abandoned altogether."

"Shall we say June next?" said the ecstatic lover. Lady Amaldina thought that June would do
very well. "But there will be the Town's Education Improvement Bill," said his lordship, again
scratching his head.

"I thought all the towns had been educated long ago." He looked at her with feelings of a double
sorrow;--sorrow that she should have known so little, sorrow that she should be treated so
badly. "I think we will put it off altogether," she said angrily.

"No, no, no," he exclaimed. "Would August do? I certainly have promised to be at Inverness
to open the New Docks."

"That's nonsense," she said. "What can the Docks want with you to open them?"

"My father, you know," he said, "has a very great interest in the city. I think I'll get David
to do it." Lord David was his brother, also a Member of Parliament, and a busy man, as were
all the Powell family; but one who liked a little recreation among the moors when the fatigue
of the House of Commons were over.

"Of course he could do it," said Lady Amaldina. "He got himself married ten years ago."

"I'll ask him, but he'll be very angry. He always says that he oughtn't to be made to do an
elder brother's work."

"Then I may tell mamma?" His lordship again rubbed his head, but did it this time in a manner
that was conceived to signify assent. The lady pressed his arm gently, and the visit to Trafford,
as far as she was concerned, was supposed to have been a success. She gave him another little
squeeze as they got out of the carriage, and he went away sadly to learn the rest of his speech,
thinking how sweet it might be "To do as others use; Play with the tangles of Neæra's hair,
Or sport with Amaryllis in the shade."

But there was a worse interruption for Lord Llwddythlw than this which he had now undergone.
At about five, when he was making the peroration of his speech quite secure in his memory,
a message came to him from the Marchioness, saying that she would be much obliged to him if
he would give her five minutes in her own room. Perhaps he would be kind enough to drink a
cup of tea with her. This message was brought by her ladyship's own maid, and could be regarded
only as a command. But Lord Llwddythlw wanted no tea, cared not at all for Lady Kingsbury,
and was very anxious as to his speech. He almost cursed the fidgety fretfulness of women as
he slipped the manuscript into his letter-case, and followed the girl along the passages.

