She told about it with an air of resigned cheerfulness, saying that after all her parents had
really done more than could be expected of them. Both with her and her similarly accidental
brother Lappy--now there, Travis thought, was a careless couple--whose horoscope, she said
dolefully, was even worse than her own. The parents had sent her off to school up through the
first few years, and had given her a handsome dowry when they disowned her, and they did the
same with Lappy a few years later.

But Navel held no bitterness. She was a girl born inevitably for trouble--her horoscope forecast
that she would be a shame to her parents, would spend much of her life in obscure, dangerous
places, and would reflect no credit on anyone who befriended her. So, for a child like this,
what reasonable citizen would waste time and money and love, when it was certain beforehand
that the child grown up would be as likely as not to end up a murderess? No, the schools were
reserved for the children of promise, as were the jobs and the parties and the respect later
on. The only logical course, the habitual custom, was for the parents to disown their evilly
aspected children, hoping only that such tragedies as lay in the future would not be too severe,
and at least would not be connected with the family name.

And Navel was not bitter. But there was only one place for her, following her exile from her
parents' home. A career in business was of course impossible. Prospective employers took one
look at your horoscope and--zoom, the door. The only work she could find was menial in the
extreme--dish-washing, street cleaning, and so on. So she turned, and Lappy turned, as thousands
of their ill-starred kind had turned before them for generations, to the wild gangs of the sewers.

And it was not nearly so bad as it might have seemed. The sewer gangs were composed of thousands
of people just like herself, homeless, cast out, and they came from all levels of society to
found a society of their own. They offered each other what none of them could have found anywhere
else on Mert: appreciation, companionship, and even if life in the sewers was filthy, it was
also tolerable, and many even married and had children--the luckiest of whom quickly disowned
their parents and were adopted by wealthy families.

But the thing which impressed Travis most of all was that none of these people were bitter
at their fate. Navel could not recall ever hearing of any organized attempt at rebellion. Indeed,
most of the sewer people believed more strongly in the astrology of Mert than did the business
men on the outside. For each day every one of them could look at the dirt of himself, at the
disease of his surroundings, and could see that the message of his horoscope was true: he was
born to no good end. And since it had been drummed into these people from their earliest childhood
that only the worst could be expected of them, they gave in, quite humanly, to the predictions,
and went philosophically forth to live up to them. They watched the daily horoscopes intently
for the Bad Days, realizing that what was bad for the normal people must be a field day for
themselves, and they issued out of the sewers periodically on binges of robbery, kidnapping,
and worse. In this way they lived up to the promise of their stars, fulfilled themselves, and
also managed to eat. And few if any ever questioned the justice of their position.

Travis sat listening, stunned. For a long while the contract and how to get out of here and
all the rest of it was forgotten. He sat watching the girl and her shy brother as they spoke
self-consciously to him, and began to understand what they must be feeling. Travis was from
outside the sewers, he had stayed at the grand hotel--his horoscope, whether he believed it
or not, must be very fine. And so they did him unconscious homage, much in the manner of low
caste Hindus speaking to a Bramin. It was unnerving.

Gradually the boy Lappy began to speak also, and Travis realized with surprise that the boy
was in many ways remarkable. As Navel's brother--Navel, Travis gathered with a twinge of deep
regret, was the big Tude's 'friend', and Tude was the leader of this particular gang--young
Lappy had a restful position. He was kept out of most of the rough work end allowed to pursue
what he shamelessly called his 'studies', and he guessed proudly that he must have stolen nearly
every book in the Consul's library. His particular hobbies, it turned out, were math and physics.
He had a startling command of both, and some of the questions he asked Travis were embarrassing.
But the boy was leaning forward, breathlessly drinking in the answers, when Tude came back.

The big man loomed over them suddenly on his quiet rag-bound feet, frightening the boy and
causing the girl to flinch. He made a number of singularly impolite remarks, but Travis said
nothing and bided his time. He regarded the big man with patient joy, considering with delight
such bloodthirsty effects as judo could produce on this one--Fors and Bonken be damned--if
they ever untied his hands.

Eventually, unable to get a rise out of him, the big man shoved a paper down before his nose
and told him to sign it. He pulled out that wickedly clean knife and freed Travis' hand just
enough for him to move his wrist. Hoping for the best, Travis signed. Tude chuckled, said something
nastily to the girl, the girl said something chilling in return, and the big man cuffed her
playfully on the shoulder. Then he lumbered away.

Travis sat glaring after him. The contract, the need to escape flooded back into his mind.
The eclipse might be ending even now. Oh him will be to let me lay at Grange? "I use to isolation,
the solitude as Travis there is unendurable pirates. I get from Cumberland if him find the books and
thought. The mountains will remind he get no days, would be whole as they were, were less same than
the skies. Them might have i had so held here that i had gained everything my girl would be
little rare as it has been.

Was the Earl there?" "at marriage?

Oh yes, but he was there." "there might hear instantly take him glanced
to my terror radiates he swore in a." the;-- Boy shall leap so.

When a husband. She was almost broken-hearted if he asked himself whether
them had in comedy had been cruel to take he say her was father. But knew
not how were he could have done whole than she had done.
 Can you, in your wisdom, confirm or deny what I have seen? It is this--"

He spoke a short series of sentences. Navel tried to shush him, embarrassed, but he doggedly
went on. And Travis, stricken, found himself suddenly paying close attention.

For the words Lappy said, with minor variations, were Isaac Newton's Laws of Motion.

       *       *       *       *       *

"There are the seven planets," Navel was saying gravely, "and the two lights--that is, the
sun and the moon. The first planet, that nearest the sun, is called Rym. Rym is the planet
of intellect, of the ordinary mind. Second, is Lyndal, the planet of love, beauty, parties,
marriage, and things of a gentle nature. Third is Fors, planet of action, strife. Fourth is
Bonken, planet of beneficence, of gain, money, health. Next comes Huck, orb of necessity, the
Greater Infortune, which brings men most trouble of all. Then Weepen, planet of illusion, of
dreamers and poets and, poorly aspected, liars and cheats. And finally there is Sharb, planet
of genius, of sudden cataclysms."

"I see," Travis murmured.

"But it is not only these planets and their aspects which is important, it is also to be considered
such houses and signs as through which these planets transit...."

She went on, but Travis was having difficulty following her. He could not help but return to
Newton's Laws. It was incredible. Here on this backward planet, mired in an era roughly equivalent
to the time of the Renaissance, an event was taking place almost exactly at the same time as
it had happened, long ago, on Earth. It had been Isaac Newton, then. It was, incredibly, this
frail young man named Lappy now. For unless Travis was greatly mistaken, Navel's kid brother
was an authentic genius. And such a genius as comes once in a hundred years.

So, naturally, Lappy would have to come home with Travis. The boy was hardly college age as
yet. Sent to school by Allspace, given a place in the great Allspace laboratories at Aldebaran,
young Lappy might eventually make the loss of the contract at Mert seem puny in comparison
to the things that head of his could produce. For Lappy was a natural resource, just as certainly
as any mine on Mert, and since the advent of Earth science meant Mert would no longer be needing
him, Lappy could go along with Travis and still leave him a clear conscience.

But the question still remained: how? He could not even get himself out, yet, let alone Lappy.
And the girl. What about the girl?

He brooded, groping for an out. But in the meanwhile he listened while the girl outlined Mert's
system of astrology. He had realized finally that the key to the business lay there. Astrology
was these people's most powerful motivating force. If he could somehow turn it to his advantage--He
listened to the girl. And eventually found his plan.

"Ho!" he said abruptly. Startled, the girl stared at him.

"Lightning in the brain," Travis grinned, "solutions effervesce. Attend. Of surety, are not
places on Mert also ruled by the stars? Is it not true that towns and villages do also have
horoscopes?"

Navel blinked.

"Why, see thee, it is in the nature of things, odd man, that all matter is governed by the
planets. How else come explanations, for example, of natural catastrophes, fires, plagues,
which affect whole cities and not others? And consider war, does not one country win, and the
other lose? Of a surety different aspects obtain...."

"Joy then," Travis said. "But do further observe. Is it not so, in your astrology, that a man's
horoscope may often conflict with that of the place wherein he dwells? Is it not so that, often,
a man is promised greater success in other regions, where the ruling stars more closely and
friendlily conjoin his own?"

"Your mind leaps obstacles and homes to the truth," Navel said approvingly. "Many times has
it been made clear that a man's fortune lies best in places ruled by his Ascendant, as witness,
for example, those who are advised to take to the sea, or to southern lands...."

"Intoxication!" Travis cried out happily, "then is our goal made known. Consider: from your
poor natal horoscope, in this city, this land, no fortune arises. You doom yourself, with Lappy,
by remaining here. But what business is this? Seek you not better times? Could you not go forth
to another place, and so become people of gravity, of substance, of moment?"

The girl regarded for a moment, puzzled, then caught his point and shook her head sadly.

"Odd man, without profit. You misconstrue. Such as we, my brother and I, are not condemned
by place, but by twistings of the character. My natal Huck, retrograde in the tenth, gives
an untrustworthy, criminous person. It would be so here, there, anywhere. My pattern is set.
Such travels as you describe are for those who conflict only with place. I, and my brother,
it is our sad fortune to conflict with all."

"But this is the core," Travis insisted. "The conflict is with Mert! Consider, such travail
as is yours stems from the radiations of Huck, of Weepen, of Scharb. But should you remove
yourself beyond their reach, across great vastnesses of space to where other planets subtend--and
in their alien radiation extinguish and nullify those of Huck--what fortune comes then? What
rises, what leaps in joy?"

The girl sat speechless, staring at Travis with great soft eyes. The boy Lappy, who until that
moment had been grinning happily over the news that his laws were true, suddenly understood
what Travis was saying and let his mouth fall open.

But the girl sat without expression. Then, to Travis' dismay, a slow dark look of disgust came
over her face.

"This," she said ominously, "this smacks of vetching."

The word fell like a sudden fog. Lappy, who had begun to smile, cut it sharply off. Travis,
remembering what vetching meant to these people, gathered his forces.

"Woman," he said bitingly, "you speak in offense, but with patience and kindness I heal your
insult. I control my choler, but my blood flows hot, therefore fasten your tongue. Tell me
not that I have overvalued you, for your brain is clear, your courage thick. Wherefore speak
of vetch? What vetch is there in travel? He vetches who leaves a certainty for another certainty,
who attempts to avoid his starry fate. But you go from a certain end to an end not certain
at all, to places of dark mystery, of grim foreboding. It may be that you perish, or pain in
the extreme, as well as gain fortune. The end is not clear. This then is not vetching. Now
retreat your words, and reply to me as one does to a friend, a companion, one who seeks your good."

He sat tautly while the girl thought it out. Eventually she dropped her eyes in submission
and he sighed inwardly with relief. It was accomplished. He would have to shore it up perhaps
with a little elaboration, but it was accomplished.

Ten minutes later he was standing free and unbound in the passageway. It was just barely in
time. Down the round dark tunnel two men came.

       *       *       *       *       *

Navel stopped gingerly over the bodies and gazed at Travis with awestruck admiration.

"A rare skill," she murmured, "they did flip and gyrate as dry leaves in the wind."

"Observe then," Travis said ominously, inspecting meanwhile the long slash down his arm with
which Tude had nearly gotten him "and learn. And in the future receive my words with planetary
respect."

"I will."

"And I," added Lappy, shaken.

"Fair. Bright. Now attend. How lies the path?"

"Through more such as these, I fear. This place in which we trouble lies at a dead end. We
must proceed through great halls where many sit waiting, ere we arrive at the light."

"No other way? Think now."

"None."

Travis sighed.

"And they talk about luck. Well boy," he turned to Lappy, "give me your blunderbuss. Obtain
that one's knife"--he indicated the sleeping Tude--"and let us carve our way out into the sunshine."

But as it turned out, the getting free was much easier than he had anticipated. There was only
one band, the girl's own, between them and the opening, and these had fortunately just finished
their evening meal when Travis stalked, black, gaunt and murderous, out of the tunnel into
their large round room. Part of it was the surprise, part of it was the sudden knowledge that
big Tude and the other man had already tried to stop him, but most of it was simply the look
of him. He was infinitely ready. They were not, had no reason to be, and they took it automatically
for granted that a man this confident must have the stars behind him. They regarded him thoughtfully
as he went on by. No one moved. They were a philosophical people. When he had gone, taking
the boy and girl with him, they discussed it thoroughly.

Out under the sky at last it was pitch black and the stars were shining. Travis realized that
he had been in the sewer almost a full 24 hours. That meant that the eclipse was done, tomorrow
would be a good day. There was not much time.

He commandeered the first carriage to come by, routing three elegantly dressed but unwarlike
young men who fled in terror. He saw with relief that they thought him only another sewer rat,
for if word of an Earthman robbing the local citizens ever got out there would be hell to pay,
and in addition to his other troubles he could not abide that. He told Navel to head for the
field where old 29 rested. Thoroughly bushed and beginning now to feel a woeful hunger, he
sat back to brood.

At the ship young Trippe greeted him with haggard astonishment. He jumped forward joyfully.

"Trav! By jig, Trav, I thought we'd lost you. Old Dolly's over at the local police sta--" He
stopped abruptly and stood slack-jawed as Navel and Lappy clambered fearfully through the lock.
Travis glanced back. No spectators. Good.

"Now what in the sweet silly name--" Trippe began, but Travis stopped him.

"Russ, be a good kid. See if you can get me something to eat. Haven't had a bite in 24 hours."

"Sure, Trav, sure, only--what's with the Lower Depths here?"

"You might show them the showers," Travis grinned. "Or at least turn on the air conditioning.
But listen, anything new on the contract?"

Trippe's face fell. "Not a thing. Even worse. Let me tell you. But ho, the food." He dashed
off. Travis collapsed into a chair. A few moments later Trippe came back bearing food, but
his eyes by now had begun to penetrate the dirt of the girl, and he stood watching her, bemused.
Then suddenly he began to look happier than he had in several days. Travis told him briefly
what had happened in the sewer, also about the brains of Lappy. Trippe was impressed. But he
continued to regard the girl.

"Well," Travis said, munching, "fill me in on what's been going on. The eclipse come off?"

Trippe jerked. He focussed on Travis unhappily.

"Oh boy, did it come off. Wait'll you hear. Listen, you know the way it is now, I think they're
going to kick all Earthmen off this planet. The M.C. says we may have to leave and come back
a hundred years from now. Not anybody going to get a contract now."

"What happened?"

"Well, you wouldn't believe it. You have to understand these people's astrology. You know the
little moon these people have--Felda, they call it--it's only a tiny thing, really only a few
hundred yards wide. Well, when the Mapping Command first came by here they set down on that
Moon and set up a listening post before landing, you know, the way they always do, to size
up the situation through telescopes, radio, all that. Mostly they just orbit but this time
they landed. God knows why. And took off again, naturally, throwing in the star drive. So today
the eclipse comes off all right, but it comes off late."

He could not help smiling.

"You see what happened. A star drive is a hell of a force. It altered the orbit of the moon.
Not enough to make any real difference, just a few hours a year, only minutes a day, but boy,
you want to hear these people howl. And I guess you can see their point. Every movement that
damn moon makes is important to them, they know where it should be to the inch. And now not
only is it slightly off course, but so is every ephemeris printed on Mert. And they have them
printed up, I understand, for the next thousand years. Which runs into money. We offered to
pay, of course, but paying isn't going to help. It seems we've also messed up interpretations,
predictions, the whole doggone philosophy. Oh it's a real ding dong. But contract? Not in a
million years."

Travis sighed. That seemed to put the cap on it, all right. After all, when you start pushing
people's moons around, where will it end? He brooded, his appetite gone. But he made a last effort.

"Did you discover anything at all we could use?"

