Let us consider the case of a doctor in a provincial town who is making an annual income of
about £800 a year, living on £600 of it and saving £200. Instead of spending this quarter of
his income on immediate enjoyments, such as wine and cigars, and journeys to London, he invests
it in different parts of the world through the mechanism of international finance, because
he has been attracted by the advantages of a system of investment which was fashionable some
years ago, which worked by what was called Geographical Distribution.[2] This meant to say
that the investors who practised it put their money into as many different countries as possible,
so that the risk of loss owing to climatic or other disturbances might be spread as widely
as possible. So here we have this quiet country doctor spreading all over the world the money
that he gets for dosing and poulticing and dieting his patients, stimulating industry in many
climates and bringing some part of its proceeds to be added to his store. Let us see how the
process works. First of all he has a bank, into which he pays day by day the fees that he receives
in coin or notes and the cheques that he gets, each half year, from those of his patients who
have an account with him. As long as his money is in the bank, the bank has the use of it,
and not much of it is likely to go abroad. For the banks use most of the funds entrusted to
them in investments in home securities, or in loans and advances to home customers. Part of
them they use in buying bills of exchange drawn on London houses by merchants and financiers
all over the world, so that even when he pays money into his bank it is possible that our doctor
is already forming part of the machinery of international finance and involving us in the need
for an explanation of one of its mysteries.

A bill of exchange is an order to pay. When a merchant in Argentina sells wheat to an English
buyer, he draws a bill on the buyer (or some bank or firm in England whom the buyer instructs
him to draw on), saying, "Pay to me" (or anybody else whom he may name) "the sum of so many
pounds." This bill, if it is drawn on a firm or company of well known standing, the seller
of the wheat can immediately dispose of, and so has got payment for his goods. Usually the
bill is made payable two or three, or sometimes six months after sight, that is after it has
been received by the firm on which it is drawn, and "accepted" by it, that is signed across
the front to show that the firm drawn on will pay the bill when it falls due. These bills of
exchange, when thus accepted, are promises to pay entered into by firms of first-rate standing,
and are held as investments by English banks. Bills of exchange are also drawn on English houses
to finance trade transactions between foreign countries, and also as a means of borrowing money
from England. When they are drawn on behalf of English customers, the credit given is given
at home, but as it is (almost always) given in connection with international trade, the transaction
may be considered as part of international finance. But O'Farrell made me sure in a minute, that
the girl here must be my Girl. After that, I'd only to see you-- to ask if he told the truth--
to watch your face-- your precious, beautiful face! I thought of it and pictured it. But I never thought
of those tears! Forgive me, my darling, for making them come. If you'll let me love you all your
life, they shall be the last I'll ever cause.

"I laughed, and cried a little more, at the same time." What a word
from you to me--'Forgive'!

"" Well,
it's more suitable than from you to me, because there's nothing you could do that I wouldn't
forgive before you did it, or even be sure it was just the one right thing to do. My Girl-- my
lost, found love-- do you suppose it was of your own accord you came to my people and said you
belonged to me? Certainly this danger is a real one, but it does not follow that we shall not
be able to meet it and defeat it. If the war teaches us to work hard and consume little, so
that when peace comes we shall have a great volume of goods to export, there is no reason why
the bill on London should not retain much if not all of its old prestige and supremacy in the
marts of the world. For we must always remember that finance is only the handmaid of industry.
She is often a pert handmaid who steals her mistress's clothes and tries to flaunt before the
world as the mistress, and so she sometimes imposes on many people who ought to know better,
who think that finance is an all-powerful influence. Finance is a mighty influence, but it
is a mere piece of machinery which assists, quickens, and lives on production. The men who
make and grow things, and carry them from the place where they are made and grown to the place
where they are wanted, these are the men who furnish the raw material of finance, without which
it would have to shut up its shop.

If they and their work ceased, we should all starve, and the financiers would have nothing
behind the pieces of paper that they handle. If finance and the financiers were suddenly to
cease, there would be a very awkward jar and jolt in our commercial machinery, but as long
as the stuff and the means of carrying it were available, we should very soon patch up some
other method for exchanging it between one nation and another and one citizen and another.
The supremacy of the London bill of exchange was created only to a small extent by any supremacy
in London's financial machinery; it was based chiefly on the supremacy of England's world-wide
trade, and on our readiness to take goods from all nations. The consequence of this was that
traders of all nations sold goods to us, and so had claims on us and drew bills on us, and
bought goods from us, and so owed us money and wanted to buy bills drawn on us to pay their
debts with. So everywhere the bill on London was known and familiar and welcome. If the Americans
are able and willing to develop such a world-wide trade as ours, then the bill on New York
will have a vogue all over the world just as is enjoyed by the bill on London. Then London
and New York will have to fight the matter out by seeing which will provide the best and cheapest
machinery for discounting the bill, that is, turning it into cash on arrival, so that the holder
of it shall get the best possible price at the present moment, for a bill due two or three
months hence.

In this matter of machinery London has certain advantages which ought, if well used and applied,
to stand her in good stead in any struggle that lies ahead of her. London's credit machinery
has grown up in almost complete freedom from legislation, and it has consequently been able
to grow, without let or hindrance, along the lines that expediency and convenience have shown
to be most practical and useful. It has been too busy to be logical or theoretical, and consequently
it is full of absurdities and anomalies, but it works with marvellous ease and elasticity.

In its centre is the Bank of England, with the prestige of antiquity and of official dignity
derived from acting as banker to the British Government, and with still more practical strength
derived from acting as banker to all the other great banks, several of them much bigger, in
certain respects, than it. The Bank of England is very severely and strictly restricted by
law in the matter of its note issue, but it luckily happened, when Parliament was imposing
these restrictions on the Bank's business, that note issuing was already becoming a comparatively
unimportant part of banking, owing to the development of the use of cheques. Nowadays, when
borrowers go to the Bank of England for loans, they do not want to take them out in notes;
all they want is a credit in the Bank's books against which they can draw cheques. A credit
in the Bank of England's books is regarded by the financial community as "cash," and this pleasant
fiction has given the Bank the power of creating cash by a stroke of its pen and to any extent
that it pleases, subject only to its own view as to what is prudent and sound business. On
p.33 ("A BANK RETURN", below) is a specimen of a return that is published each week by the
Bank of England, showing its position in two separate accounts with regard to its note issuing
business and its banking business: the return taken is an old one, published before the war,
so as to show how the machine worked in normal times before war's demands had blown out the
balloon of credit to many times its former size.

If the commercial and financial community is short of cash, all that it has to do is to go
to the Bank of England and borrow a few millions, and the only effect on the Bank's position
is an addition of so many millions to its holding of securities and a similar addition to its
deposits. It may sometimes happen that the borrowers may require the use of actual currency,
and in that case part of the advances made will be taken out in the form of notes and gold,
but as a general rule the Bank is able to perform its function of providing emergency credit
by merely making entries in its books.

A BANK RETURN

ISSUE DEPARTMENT.

Notes Issued            £56,908,235 Government Debt        £11,015,100
                                    Other Securities         7,434,900
                                    Gold Coin and Bullion   38,458,235
                                    Silver Bullion             ---
                        -----------                        -----------
                        £56,908,235                        £56,908,235
                        -----------                        -----------

BANKING DEPARTMENT.

Proprietors' Capital    £14,553,000 Government Securities  £11,005,126
Rest                      3,431,484 Other Securities        33,623,288
Public Deposits          13,318,714 Notes                   27,592,980
Other Deposits           42,485,605 Gold and Silver Coin     1,596,419
Seven Day and other
  Bills                      29,010
                        -----------                        -----------
                        £73,817,813                        £73,817,813
                        -----------                        -----------

With the Bank of England thus acting as a centre to the system, there has grown up around it
a circle of the great joint stock banks, which provide credit and currency for commerce and
finance by lending money and taking it on deposit, or on current account. These banks work
under practically no legal restrictions of any kind with regard to the amount of cash that
they hold, or the use that they make of the money that is entrusted to their keeping. I don't
know how I am going to deserve this forgiveness, this deliverance,
this joy!

"Even if I'd found a strange girl looking after my parents and saving their lives and winning their
love, it would have been pretty difficult to chuck her," Jim was laughing. "You, on this side
of the door, waiting to face the ogre Me, couldn't have felt much worse than I felt on my side, not
knowing what I should see-- or do. Darling, one more kiss for my people's
sake, one more for myself, and then I must take you to them. No legal regulations guide them
in the form or extent of the information that they give in their balance sheets, and their
great success and solidity is a triumph of unfettered business freedom. This absence of restriction
gives great elasticity and adaptability to the credit machinery of London. Here is a specimen
of one of their balance sheets, slightly simplified, and dating from the days before the war:--

LIABILITIES.

Capital (subscribed)   £14,000,000
                        ----------
Paid up                  3,500,000
Reserve                  4,000,000
Deposits                87,000,000
Circular Notes, etc.     3,000,000
Acceptances              6,000,000
Profit and loss            500,000
                       -----------
                      £104,000,000
                       -----------

ASSETS

Cash in hand and
  at Bank of England   £12,500,000
Cash at call and
  short notice          13,000,000
Bills discounted        19,000,000
Govt. Securities         5,000,000
Other Investments        4,500,000
Advances and loans      42,000,000
Liability of customers
  on account of
  Acceptances            6,000,000
Promises                 2,000,000
                       -----------
                      £104,000,000
                       -----------

On one side are the sums that the bank has received, in the shape of capital subscribed, from
its shareholders, and in the shape of deposits from its customers, including Dr. Pillman and
thousands like him; on the other the cash that it holds, in coin, notes and credit at the Bank
of England, its cash lent at call or short notice to bill brokers (of whom more anon) and the
Stock Exchange, the bills of exchange that it holds, its investments in British Government
and other stocks, and the big item of loans and advances, through which it finances industry
and commerce at home. It should be noted that the entry on the left side of the balance sheet,
"Acceptances," refers to bills of exchange which the bank has accepted for merchants and manufacturers
who are importing goods and raw material, and have instructed the foreign exporters to draw
bills on their bankers. As these merchants and manufacturers are responsible to the bank for
meeting the bills when they fall due, the acceptance item is balanced by an exactly equivalent
entry on the other side, showing this liability of customers as an asset in the bank's favour.

This business of acceptance is done not only by the great banks, but also by a number of private
firms with connections in foreign countries, and at home, through which they place their names
and credit at the disposal of people less eminent for wealth and position, who pay them a commission
for the use of them.

