"Whether it does or not, you do remember that I loved you first--before anybody ever knew?"

"I do indeed."

"It is a shame to be so glad because Kitty is away."

Yet she continued to rejoice in the happiness that came of their solitude. It was Keith, not
Kitty, who arranged her cushions for her and covered her feet; Keith, not Kitty, who poured
out tea for her, and brought it her, and sat beside her afterwards, leaning over her and stroking
her soft hair, as Kitty loved to do.

"Lucy," he said suddenly, "can you stand living with me in a horrid little house in a suburb?"

"I should love it. Dear little house."

"Maddox is in it now; but we'll turn him out. You don't know Maddox?"

She shuddered, and he drew the rug in closer about her.

"It's such a tiny house, Lucy; it would all go into this room."

"This room," said Lucy, "is much too large."

"There's only room for you and me in it."

"All the better, so long as there's room for me."

"And the walls are all lath and plaster. When Maddox is in another room I can hear him breathing."

"And when I'm in another room I shall hear you breathing; and then I shall know you're alive
when I'm afraid you're not. I'm glad the walls are all lath and plaster."

"But it isn't a pretty house, Lucy."

"It will be a pretty house when I'm in it," said she, and was admitted to have had the best
of the argument.

"Then, if you really don't mind, we shan't have to wait. Not a week, if you're ready to come
to me."

But Lucia's face was sad. "Keith--darling--don't make plans till we know what Sir Wilfrid Spence
says."

"I shall, whatever he says. But I suppose I must consult him before I take you to Alassio."

For still at his heart, under all its happiness, there lay that annihilating doubt; the doubt
and the fear that had been sown there by Horace Jewdwine. He could see for himself that one
of his terrors was baseless; but there remained that other more terrible possibility. None
of them had dared to put it into words; but it was implied, reiterated, in the name of Sir
Wilfrid Spence. He had moreover a feeling that this happiness of his was too perfect, that
it must be taken away from him.

He confided his trouble to Kitty that night, sitting up over the drawing-room fire. Lucia's
doctor had come and gone.

"What did he say, Kitty?"

"He says there's no need for Sir Wilfrid Spence to see her at all. He is going to wire to him
not to come."

He gave a sigh of relief. Then his eyes clouded.

"No. He must come. I'd rather he came."

"But why? He isn't a nerve specialist."

He shuddered. "I know. That's why I must have him. I can't trust these local men."

"It will be horribly expensive, Keith. And it's throwing money away. Dr. Robson said so."

"That's my affair."

"Oh well, as for that, it was all arranged for."

"Nobody has any right to arrange for it but me."

"Much better arrange for a good time at Alassio."

"No. I want to be absolutely certain. You tell me she's perfectly well, and that doctor of
yours swears she is, and I think it; and yet I can't believe it. I daren't."

"That's because you're not feeling very well yourself."

"I know that in some ways she is getting stronger every minute; but you see, I can't help thinking
what that other man said."

"What other man?"

"Well, the Jewdwines' doctor."

"What did he say?"

"Nothing. It was Jewdwine. He told me--well--that was why their engagement was broken off.
Because she wasn't strong enough to marry."

Kitty's eyes blazed. "He told you that?"

"Not exactly. He couldn't, you know. I only thought their doctor must have told him--something
terrible."

"I don't suppose he told him anything of the sort."

"Oh well, you know, he didn't say so. But he let me think it."

"Yes. I know exactly how it was done. He wouldn't say anything he oughtn't to. But he'd let
you think it. It was just his awful selfishness. He thought there was an off chance of poor
Lucy being a sort of nervous invalid, and he wouldn't risk the bother of it. But as for their
engagement, there never was any. That was another of the things he let you think. I suppose
he cared for Lucy as much as he could care for anybody; but the fact is he wants to marry another
woman, and he couldn't bear to see her married to another man."

"Oh, I say, you know--"

"It sounds incredible. But you don't know how utterly I distrust that man. He's false through
and through. There's nothing sound in him except his intellect. I wish you'd never known him.
He's been the cause of all your--your suffering, and Lucy's too. You might have been married
long ago if it hadn't been for him."

"No, Kitty. I don't think that."

"You might, really. If he hadn't been in the way she would have known that she cared for you
and let you know it, too. But nothing that he ever did or didn't do comes up to this."

"The truth is, Kitty, he thinks I'm rather a bad lot, you know."

"My dear Keith, he thinks that if he doesn't marry Lucy he'd rather you didn't. He certainly
hit on the most effectual means of preventing it."

"Oh, did he! He doesn't know me. I shall marry her whatever Sir Wilfrid Spence says. If she's
ill, all the more reason why I should look after her. I'm only afraid lest--lest--"

She knew what he thought and could not say--lest it should not be for very long.

"There are some things," he said quietly, "that can't be taken away from me."

Kitty was silent; for she knew what things they were.

"You can trust her to me, Kitty?"

"I can indeed."

And so on Sunday the great man came down.

It was over in half an hour. That half-hour Keith spent in pacing up and down the library,
the place of so many dear and tender and triumphant memories. They sharpened his vision of
Lucy doomed, of her sweet body delivered over to the torture.

He did not hear Kitty come in till she laid her hand upon his arm. He turned as if at the touch
of destiny.

"Don't Keith, for Goodness' sake. It's all right. Only--he wants to see you."

Sir Wilfrid Spence stood in the morning-room alone. He looked very grave and grim. He had a
manner, a celebrated manner that had accomplished miracles by its tremendous moral effect.
It had helped to set him on his eminence and he was not going to sacrifice it now. He fixed
his gaze on the poet as he entered and held him under it for the space of half a minute without
speaking. He seemed, this master of the secrets of the body, to be invading despotically the
province of the soul. It struck Rickman that the great specialist was passing judgement on
him, to see whether in all things he were worthy of his destiny. The gaze thus prolonged became
more than he could bear.

"Do you mind telling me at once what's wrong with her?"

"There isn't anything wrong with her. What fool ever told you that there was? She has been
made ill with grief."

Lucia herself came to him there and led him back into the library. They sat together in the
window-seat, held silent for a little while by the passing of that shadow of their fear.

"Keith," she said at last. "Is it true that you loved me when you were with me, here, ever
so long ago?"

He answered her.

"And when you came to me and I was horrid to you, and when I sent you away? And when I never
wrote to you, and Horace made you think I'd forgotten you? Did you love me then?"

"Yes, more than I did before, Lucy."

"But--Keith--you didn't love me when you were loving somebody else?"

"I did, more than ever then. That happened because I loved you."

"I can understand all the rest; but I can't understand that."

"I think I'd rather you didn't understand it, darling."

She sighed, puzzled over it and gave it up. "But you didn't love me when you--when I--when
you wouldn't have me?"

He answered her; but not with words.

"And now," said she, "you're going to Paris to-morrow."

"Perhaps."

"You must. Perhaps they'll be calling for you."

"And perhaps I shan't be there. Do you know, Lucy, you've got violets growing among the roots
of your hair?"

"I know you're going to Paris, to-morrow, to please me."

"Perhaps. And after that we're going to Alassio, and after that to Florence and Rome; all the
places where your private secretary--"

"And when," said she, "is my private secretary going to take me home?"

"If his play succeeds, dear, he won't have to take you to that horrid house of his."

"Won't he? But I like it best of all."

"Why, Lucy?"

"Oh, for such a foolish reason. Because he's been in it."

"I'm afraid, darling, some of the houses he's been in--"

At that she fell to a sudden breathless sobbing, as if the life that had come back to her had
spent itself again.

In his happiness he had forgotten Howland Street; or if he thought of it at all he thought
of it as an enchanted spot, the stage that had brought him nearest to the place of his delight.

"Lucy, Lucy, how did you know? I never meant you to."

"Some one told me. And I--I went to see it."

"Good God!"

"I saw your room, the room they carried you out of. If I'd only known! My darling, why didn't
you come to me then? Why didn't you? I had plenty. Why didn't you send for me?"

"How could I?"

"You could, you could--"

"But sweetest, I didn't even know where you were."

"Wherever I was I would have come to you. I would have taken you away."

"It was worth it, Lucy. If it hadn't been for that, I shouldn't be here now. Looking back it
seems positively glorious. And whatever it was I'd go through years of it, for one hour with
you here. One of those hours even when you didn't love me."

"I've always loved you, all my life long. Only I didn't know it was you. Do you remember my
telling you that your dream was divorced from reality? It wasn't true. That was what was wrong
with me."

"I'm afraid I wasn't always very faithful to my dream."

"Because your dream wasn't always faithful to you. And yet it was faithful."

"Lucy, do you remember the things I told you? Can you forgive me for being what I was?"

"It was before I knew you."

"Yes, but after? That was worse; it was the worst thing I ever did, because I had known you."

She wondered why he asked forgiveness of her now, of all moments; and as she wondered the light
dawned on her.

"I forgive you everything. It was my fault. I should have been there, and I wasn't."

Then he knew that after all she had understood. Her love was in her eyes, in their light and
in their darkness. They gathered many flames of love into that tender tragic gaze, all pitying,
half maternal. Those eyes had never held for him the sad secrets of mortality. Love in them
looked upon things invisible, incorruptible; divining, even as it revealed, the ultimate mystery.
He saw that in her womanhood Nature was made holy, penetrated by the spirit and the fire of
God. He knelt down and laid his face against her shoulder, and her arm, caressing, held him
there, as if it were she who sheltered and protected.

"Keith," she whispered, "did you mean to marry me before you came this time, or after?"

"Before, oh before."

"You thought--that terrible thing had happened to me; you thought you would always have me
dragging on you? And yet you came? It made no difference. You came."

"I came because I wanted to take care of you, Lucy. I wanted nothing else. That was all."

Lucia's understanding was complete.

"I knew you were like that," said she; "I always knew it."

She bent towards his hidden face and raised it to her own.