WITH EIGHT ILLUSTRATIONS BY JOHN GILBERT.

PREFACE.

Many years ago, an English translation of the first part of this charming tale appeared; and
few books have obtained such deserved popularity. The gradual progress of the family from utter
destitution and misery, to happiness and abundance, arising from their own labour, perseverance,
and obedience, together with the effect produced on the different characters of the sons by
the stirring adventures they met with, created a deep and absorbing interest. Every young reader
patronized either the noble Fritz, the studious Ernest, or the generous Jack, and regarded
him as a familiar personal acquaintance. The book had but one defect--the death of the talented
author left it unfinished, and every reader regretted its abrupt termination.

This conclusion was happily supplied by one of the most accomplished and elegant writers of
her day, the Baroness de Montolieu; and, sanctioned and approved by the son of the lamented
author, the entire work was published in France, and has for many years held a distinguished
rank in the juvenile libraries there. For the gratification of a little family circle, this
now appears in English; and as, on examining the first part in the original, it was found,
that "some new discoveries might be made," it was thought best to re-translate it, subduing
the tone of the whole to English taste. The unanimous voices of the beloved circle, for whom
the pleasant task was undertaken, have pronounced the result to be eminently successful, and
they generously wish, that the whole of the juvenile public of England should share in their
satisfaction, and possess a complete Swiss Robinson.

INTRODUCTION.

It is very well known that, some years ago, Counsellor Horner, a Swiss, made a voyage round
the world in the Russian vessel Le Podesda, commanded by Capt. Krusenstern. They discovered
many islands, and, amongst others, one very large and fertile, till then unknown to navigators,
to the S.W. of Java, near the coast of New Guinea. They landed here, and to the great surprise
of Mr. Horner, he was received by a family who spoke to him in German. They were a father and
mother, and four robust and hardy sons.

Their history was very interesting. The father was a Swiss clergyman, who, in the Revolution
of 1798, had lost all his fortune, and had determined to emigrate, in order to seek elsewhere
the means of supporting his family. He went first to England, with his wife and children, consisting
of four sons, between the ages of twelve and five. He there undertook the office of missionary
to Otaheite; not that he intended to remain on that uncivilized island, but he wished to proceed
from thence to Port Jackson as a free colonist. He invested his little capital in seeds of
every description, and some cattle, to take out with him. They had a prosperous voyage till
they were near the coast of New Guinea, when they were overtaken by a frightful storm. At this
period he commenced his journal, which he afterwards committed to the care of Mr. Horner, to
be forwarded to his friends in Switzerland.

Some time before, a boat from an English vessel, the Adventurer, had visited them, and the
father had sent the first part of his journal by Lieut. Bell to the captain, who remained in
the vessel. A violent tempest arose, which continued some days, and drove the Adventurer from
the coast. The family concluded the ship was lost; but this was not the case, as will be seen
in the conclusion.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER I.

The tempest had raged for six days, and on the seventh seemed to increase. The ship had been
so far driven from its course, that no one on board knew where we were. Every one was exhausted
with fatigue and watching. The shattered vessel began to leak in many places, the oaths of
the sailors were changed to prayers, and each thought only how to save his own life. "Children,"
said I, to my terrified boys, who were clinging round me, "God can save us if he will. To him
nothing is impossible; but if he thinks it good to call us to him, let us not murmur; we shall
not be separated." My excellent wife dried her tears, and from that moment became more tranquil.
We knelt down to pray for the help of our Heavenly Father; and the fervour and emotion of my
innocent boys proved to me that even children can pray, and find in prayer consolation and peace.

We rose from our knees strengthened to bear the afflictions that hung over us. Suddenly we
heard amid the roaring of the waves the cry of "Land! land!" At that moment the ship struck
on a rock; the concussion threw us down. We heard a loud cracking, as if the vessel was parting
asunder; we felt that we were aground, and heard the captain cry, in a tone of despair, "We
are lost! Launch the boats!" These words were a dagger to my heart, and the lamentations of
my children were louder than ever. I then recollected myself, and said, "Courage, my darlings,
we are still, above water, and the land is near. God helps those who trust in him. Remain here,
and I will endeavour to save us."

I went on deck, and was instantly thrown down, and wet through by a huge sea; a second followed.
I struggled boldly with the waves, and succeeded in keeping myself up, when I saw, with terror,
the extent of our wretchedness. The shattered vessel was almost in two; the crew had crowded
into the boats, and the last sailor was cutting the rope. I cried out, and prayed them to take
us with them; but my voice was drowned in the roar of the tempest, nor could they have returned
for us through waves that ran mountains high. All hope from their assistance was lost; but
I was consoled by observing that the water did not enter the ship above a certain height. The
stern, under which lay the cabin which contained all that was dear to me on earth, was immovably
fixed between two rocks. At the same time I observed, towards the south, traces of land, which,
though wild and barren, was now the haven of my almost expiring hopes; no longer being able
to depend on any human aid. I returned to my family, and endeavoured to appear calm. "Take
courage," cried I, "there is yet hope for us; the vessel, in striking between the rocks, is
fixed in a position which protects our cabin above the water, and if the wind should settle
to-morrow, we may possibly reach the land."

This assurance calmed my children, and as usual, they depended on all I told them; they rejoiced
that the heaving of the vessel had ceased, as, while it lasted, they were continually thrown
against each other. My wife, more accustomed to read my countenance, discovered my uneasiness;
and by a sign, I explained to her that I had lost all hope. I felt great consolation in seeing
that she supported our misfortune with truly Christian resignation.

"Let us take some food," said she; "with the body, the mind is strengthened; this must be a
night of trial."

Night came, and the tempest continued its fury; tearing away the planks from the devoted vessel
with a fearful crashing. It appeared absolutely impossible that the boats could have out-lived
the storm.

My wife had prepared some refreshment, of which the children partook with an appetite that
we could not feel. The three younger ones retired to their beds, and soon slept soundly. Fritz,
the eldest, watched with me. "I have been considering," said he, "how we could save ourselves.
If we only had some cork jackets, or bladders, for mamma and my brothers, you and I don't need
them, we could then swim to land."

