The magistrates were beset by the quarter-masters of the different corps for billets for men
and horses. "Let us," said Bailie Littlejohn, "take the horses into our warehouses, and the
men into our parlours—share our supper with the one, and our forage with the other. We have
made ourselves wealthy under a free and paternal government, and now is the time to show we
know its value."

A loud and cheerful acquiescence was given by all present, and the substance of the wealthy,
with the persons of those of all ranks, were unanimously devoted to the defence of the country.

Captain M'Intyre acted on this occasion as military adviser and aide-de-camp to the principal
magistrate, and displayed a degree of presence of mind, and knowledge of his profession, totally
unexpected by his uncle, who, recollecting his usual insouciance and impetuosity, gazed at
him with astonishment from time to time, as he remarked the calm and steady manner in which
he explained the various measures of precaution that his experience suggested, and gave directions
for executing them. He found the different corps in good order, considering the irregular materials
of which they were composed, in great force of numbers and high confidence and spirits. And
so much did military experience at that moment overbalance all other claims to consequence,
that even old Edie, instead of being left, like Diogenes at Sinope, to roll his tub when all
around were preparing for defence, had the duty assigned him of superintending the serving
out of the ammunition, which he executed with much discretion.

Two things were still anxiously expected—the presence of the Glenallan volunteers, who, in
consideration of the importance of that family, had been formed into a separate corps, and
the arrival of the officer before announced, to whom the measures of defence on that coast
had been committed by the commander-in-chief, and whose commission would entitle him to take
upon himself the full disposal of the military force.

At length the bugles of the Glenallan yeomanry were heard, and the Earl himself, to the surprise
of all who knew his habits and state of health, appeared at their head in uniform. They formed
a very handsome and well-mounted squadron, formed entirely out of the Earl's Lowland tenants,
and were followed by a regiment of five hundred men, completely equipped in the Highland dress,
whom he had brought down from the upland glens, with their pipes playing in the van. The clean
and serviceable appearance of this band of feudal dependants called forth the admiration of
Captain M'Intyre; but his uncle was still more struck by the manner in which, upon this crisis,
the ancient military spirit of his house seemed to animate and invigorate the decayed frame
of the Earl, their leader. He claimed, and obtained for himself and his followers, the post
most likely to be that of danger, displayed great alacrity in making the necessary dispositions,
and showed equal acuteness in discussing their propriety. Morning broke in upon the military
councils of Fairport, while all concerned were still eagerly engaged in taking precautions
for their defence.

At length a cry among the people announced, "There's the brave Major Neville come at last,
with another officer;" and their post-chaise and four drove into the square, amidst the huzzas
of the volunteers and inhabitants. The magistrates, with their assessors of the lieutenancy,
hastened to the door of their town-house to receive him; but what was the surprise of all present,
but most especially that of the Antiquary, when they became aware, that the handsome uniform
and military cap disclosed the person and features of the pacific Lovel! A warm embrace, and
a hearty shake of the hand, were necessary to assure him that his eyes were doing him justice.
Sir Arthur was no less surprised to recognise his son, Captain Wardour, in Lovel's, or rather
Major Neville's company. The first words of the young officers were a positive assurance to
all present, that the courage and zeal which they had displayed were entirely thrown away,
unless in so far as they afforded an acceptable proof of their spirit and promptitude.

"The watchman at Halket-head," said Major Neville, "as we discovered by an investigation which
we made in our route hither, was most naturally misled by a bonfire which some idle people
had made on the hill above Glenwithershins, just in the line of the beacon with which his corresponded."

Oldbuck gave a conscious look to Sir Arthur, who returned it with one equally sheepish, and
a shrug of the shoulders,

"It must have been the machinery which we condemned to the flames in our wrath," said the Antiquary,
plucking up heart, though not a little ashamed of having been the cause of so much disturbance—"The
devil take Dousterswivel with all my heart!—I think he has bequeathed us a legacy of blunders
and mischief, as if he had lighted some train of fireworks at his departure. I wonder what
cracker will go off next among our shins. But yonder comes the prudent Caxon.—Hold up your
head, you ass—your betters must bear the blame for you—And here, take this what-d'ye-call it"—(giving
him his sword)—"I wonder what I would have said yesterday to any man that would have told me
I was to stick such an appendage to my tail."

Here he found his arm gently pressed by Lord Glenallan, who dragged him into a separate apartment.
"For God's sake, who is that young gentleman who is so strikingly like"—

"Like the unfortunate Eveline," interrupted Oldbuck. "I felt my heart warm to him from the
first, and your lordship has suggested the very cause."

"But who—who is he?" continued Lord Glenallan, holding the Antiquary with a convulsive grasp.

"Formerly I would have called him Lovel, but now he turns out to be Major Neville."

"Whom my brother brought up as his natural son—whom he made his heir— Gracious Heaven! the
child of my Eveline!"

"Hold, my lord—hold!" said Oldbuck, "do not give too hasty way to such a presumption;—what
probability is there?"

"Probability? none! There is certainty! absolute certainty! The agent I mentioned to you wrote
me the whole story—I received it yesterday, not sooner. Bring him, for God's sake, that a father's
eyes may bless him before he departs."

"I will; but for your own sake and his, give him a few moments for preparation."

And, determined to make still farther investigation before yielding his entire conviction to
so strange a tale, he sought out Major Neville, and found him expediting the necessary measures
for dispersing the force which had been assembled.

"Pray, Major Neville, leave this business for a moment to Captain Wardour and to Hector, with
whom, I hope, you are thoroughly reconciled" (Neville laughed, and shook hands with Hector
across the table), "and grant me a moment's audience."

"You have a claim on me, Mr. Oldbuck, were my business more urgent," said Neville, "for having
passed myself upon you under a false name, and rewarding your hospitality by injuring your nephew."

"You served him as he deserved," said Oldbuck—"though, by the way, he showed as much good sense
as spirit to-day—Egad! if he would rub up his learning, and read Caesar and Polybus, and the
Stratagemata Polyaeni, I think he would rise in the army—and I will certainly lend him a lift."

"He is heartily deserving of it," said Neville; "and I am glad you excuse me, which you may
do the more frankly, when you know that I am so unfortunate as to have no better right to the
name of Neville, by which I have been generally distinguished, than to that of Lovel, under
which you knew me."

"Indeed! then, I trust, we shall find out one for you to which you shall have a firm and legal
title."

"Sir!—I trust you do not think the misfortune of my birth a fit subject"—

"By no means, young man," answered the Antiquary, interrupting him;—"I believe I know more
of your birth than you do yourself—and, to convince you of it, you were educated and known
as a natural son of Geraldin Neville of Neville's-Burgh, in Yorkshire, and I presume, as his
destined heir?"

"Pardon me—no such views were held out to me. I was liberally educated, and pushed forward
in the army by money and interest; but I believe my supposed father long entertained some ideas
of marriage, though he never carried them into effect."

"You say your supposed father?—What leads you to suppose Mr. Geraldin Neville was not your
real father?"

"I know, Mr. Oldbuck, that you would not ask these questions on a point of such delicacy for
the gratification of idle curiosity. I will therefore tell you candidly, that last year, while
we occupied a small town in French Flanders, I found in a convent, near which I was quartered,
a woman who spoke remarkably good English—She was a Spaniard—her name Teresa D'Acunha. In the
process of our acquaintance, she discovered who I was, and made herself known to me as the
person who had charge of my infancy. She dropped more than one hint of rank to which I was
entitled, and of injustice done to me, promising a more full disclosure in case of the death
of a lady in Scotland, during whose lifetime she was determined to keep the secret. She also
intimated that Mr. Geraldin Neville was not my father. We were attacked by the enemy, and driven
from the town, which was pillaged with savage ferocity by the republicans. The religious orders
were the particular objects of their hate and cruelty. The convent was burned, and several
nuns perished— among others Teresa; and with her all chance of knowing the story of my birth:
tragic by all accounts it must have been."

"Raro antecedentem scelestum, or, as I may here say, scelestam," said Oldbuck, "deseruit poena—even
Epicureans admitted that. And what did you do upon this?"

"I remonstrated with Mr. Neville by letter, and to no purpose. I then obtained leave of absence,
and threw myself at his feet, conjuring him to complete the disclosure which Teresa had begun.
He refused, and, on my importunity, indignantly upbraided me with the favours he had already
conferred. I thought he abused the power of a benefactor, as he was compelled to admit he had
no title to that of a father, and we parted in mutual displeasure. I renounced the name of
Neville, and assumed that under which you knew me. It was at this time, when residing with
a friend in the north of England who favoured my disguise, that I became acquainted with Miss
Wardour, and was romantic enough to follow her to Scotland. My mind wavered on various plans
of life, when I resolved to apply once more to Mr. Neville for an explanation of the mystery
of my birth. It was long ere I received an answer; you were present when it was put into my
hands. He informed me of his bad state of health, and conjured me, for my own sake, to inquire
no farther into the nature of his connection with me, but to rest satisfied with his declaring
it to be such and so intimate, that he designed to constitute me his heir. When I was preparing
to leave Fairport to join him, a second express brought me word that he was no more. The possession
of great wealth was unable to suppress the remorseful feelings with which I now regarded my
conduct to my benefactor, and some hints in his letter appearing to intimate there was on my
birth a deeper stain than that of ordinary illegitimacy, I remembered certain prejudices of
Sir Arthur."

"And you brooded over these melancholy ideas until you were ill, instead of coming to me for
advice, and telling me the whole story?" said Oldbuck.

"Exactly; then came my quarrel with Captain M'Intyre, and my compelled departure from Fairport
and its vicinity."

"From love and from poetry—Miss Wardour and the Caledoniad?"

"Most true."

"And since that time you have been occupied, I suppose, with plans for Sir Arthur's relief?"

"Yes, sir; with the assistance of Captain Wardour at Edinburgh."

"And Edie Ochiltree here—you see I know the whole story. But how came you by the treasure?"

"It was a quantity of plate which had belonged to my uncle, and was left in the custody of
a person at Fairport. Some time before his death he had sent orders that it should be melted
down. He perhaps did not wish me to see the Glenallan arms upon it."

"Well, Major Neville—or let me say, Lovel, being the name in which I rather delight—you must,
I believe, exchange both of your alias's for the style and title of the Honourable William
Geraldin, commonly called Lord Geraldin."

The Antiquary then went through the strange and melancholy circumstances concerning his mother's
death.

"I have no doubt," he said, "that your uncle wished the report to be believed, that the child
of this unhappy marriage was no more—perhaps he might himself have an eye to the inheritance
of his brother—he was then a gay wild young man—But of all intentions against your person,
however much the evil conscience of Elspeth might lead her to inspect him from the agitation
in which he appeared, Teresa's story and your own fully acquit him. And now, my dear sir, let
me have the pleasure of introducing a son to a father."

We will not attempt to describe such a meeting. The proofs on all sides were found to be complete,
for Mr. Neville had left a distinct account of the whole transaction with his confidential
steward in a sealed packet, which was not to be opened until the death of the old Countess;
his motive for preserving secrecy so long appearing to have been an apprehension of the effect
which the discovery, fraught with so much disgrace, must necessarily produce upon her haughty
and violent temper.

In the evening of that day, the yeomanry and volunteers of Glenallan drank prosperity to their
young master. In a month afterwards Lord Geraldin was married to Miss Wardour, the Antiquary
making the lady a present of the wedding ring—a massy circle of antique chasing, bearing the
motto of Aldobrand Oldenbuck, Kunst macht gunst.

Old Edie, the most important man that ever wore a blue gown, bowls away easily from one friend's
house to another, and boasts that he never travels unless on a sunny day. Latterly, indeed,
he has given some symptoms of becoming stationary, being frequently found in the corner of
a snug cottage between Monkbarns and Knockwinnock, to which Caxon retreated upon his daughter's
marriage, in order to be in the neighbourhood of the three parochial wigs, which he continues
to keep in repair, though only for amusement. Edie has been heard to say, "This is a gey bein
place, and it's a comfort to hae sic a corner to sit in in a bad day." It is thought, as he
grows stiffer in the joints, he will finally settle there.

The bounty of such wealthy patrons as Lord and Lady Geraldin flowed copiously upon Mrs. Hadoway
and upon the Mucklebackits. By the former it was well employed, by the latter wasted. They
continue, however, to receive it, but under the administration of Edie Ochiltree; and they
do not accept it without grumbling at the channel through which it is conveyed.

Hector is rising rapidly in the army, and has been more than once mentioned in the Gazette,
and rises proportionally high in his uncle's favour; and what scarcely pleases the young soldier
less, he has also shot two seals, and thus put an end to the Antiquary's perpetual harping
upon the story of the phoca.People talk of a marriage between Miss M'Intyre and Captain Wardour;
but this wants confirmation.

The Antiquary is a frequent visitor at Knockwinnock and Glenallan House, ostensibly for the
sake of completing two essays, one on the mail-shirt of the Great Earl, and the other on the
left-hand gauntlet of Hell-in-Harness. He regularly inquires whether Lord Geraldin has commenced
the Caledoniad, and shakes his head at the answers he receives.En attendant, however, he has
completed his notes, which, we believe, will be at the service of any one who chooses to make
them public without risk or expense to THE ANTIQUARY.

NOTES TO THE ANTIQUARY.

Note A, p. #.—Mottoes.

["It was in correcting the proof-sheets of this novel that Scott first took to equipping his
chapters with mottoes of his own fabrication. On one occasion he happened to ask John Ballantyne,
who was sitting by him, to hunt for a particular passage in Beaumont and Fletcher. John did
as he was bid, but did not succeed in discovering the lines. 'Hang it, Johnnie,' cried Scott,
'I believe I can make a motto sooner than you will find one.' He did so accordingly; and from
that hour, whenever memory failed to suggest an appropriate epigraph, he had recourse to the
inexhaustible mines of "old play" or "old ballad," to which we owe some of the most exquisite
verses that ever flowed from his pen."—J. G. Lockhart.

See also the Introduction to "Chronicles of the Canongate," vol. xix.]

Note B, p. #.—Sandy Gordon's Itinerarium.

[This well-known work, the "Itinerarium Septentrionale, or a Journey thro' most of the Counties
of Scotland, and those in the North of England," was published at London in 1727, folio. The
author states, that in prosecuting his work he "made a pretty laborious progress through almost
every part of Scotland for three years successively." Gordon was a native of Aberdeenshire,
and had previously spent some years in travelling abroad, probably as a tutor. He became Secretary
to the London Society of Antiquaries in 1736. This office he resigned in 1741, and soon after
went out to South Carolina with Governor Glen, where he obtained a considerable grant of land.
On his death, about the year 1753, he is said to have left "a handsome estate to his family."—See
Literary Anecdotes of Bowyer, by John Nichols, vol. v., p. 329, etc.]

Note C, p. #.—Praetorium.

It may be worth while to mention that the incident of the supposed Praetorium actually happened
to an antiquary of great learning and acuteness, Sir John Clerk of Penicuik, one of the Barons
of the Scottish Court of Exchequer, and a parliamentary commissioner for arrangement of the
Union between England and Scotland. As many of his writings show, Sir John was much attached
to the study of Scottish antiquities. He had a small property in Dumfriesshire, near the Roman
station on the hill called Burrenswark. Here he received the distinguished English antiquarian
Roger Gale, and of course conducted him to see this remarkable spot, where the lords of the
world have left such decisive marks of their martial labours.

An aged shepherd whom they had used as a guide, or who had approached them from curiosity,
listened with mouth agape to the dissertations on foss and vellum, ports dextra, sinistra,
and decumana, which Sir John Clerk delivered ex cathedra, and his learned visitor listened
with the deference to the dignity of a connoisseur on his own ground. But when the cicerone
proceeded to point out a small hillock near the centre of the enclosure as the Praetorium,
Corydon's patience could hold no longer, and, like Edie Ochiltree, he forgot all reverence,
and broke in with nearly the same words—"Praetorium here, Praetorium there, I made the bourock
mysell with a flaughter-spade." The effect of this undeniable evidence on the two lettered
sages may be left to the reader's imagination.

The late excellent and venerable John Clerk of Eldin, the celebrated author of Naval Tactics,
used to tell this story with glee, and being a younger son of Sir John's was perhaps present
on the occasion.

Note D, p. #.—Mr. Rutherfurd's Dream

The legend of Mrs. Grizel Oldbuck was partly taken from an extraordinary story which happened
about seventy years since, in the South of Scotland, so peculiar in its circumstances that
it merits being mentioned in this place.

The author has often heard this story told by persons who had the best access to know the facts,
who were not likely themselves to be deceived, and were certainly incapable of deception. He
cannot therefore refuse to give it credit, however extraordinary the circumstances may appear.
The circumstantial character of the information given in the dream, takes it out of the general
class of impressions of the kind which are occasioned by the fortuitous coincidence of actual
events with our sleeping thoughts. On the other hand, few will suppose that the laws of nature
were suspended, and a special communication from the dead to the living permitted, for the
purpose of saving Mr. Rutherfurd a certain number of hundred pounds. The author's theory is,
that the dream was only the recapitulation of information which Mr. Rutherfurd had really received
from his father while in life, but which at first he merely recalled as a general impression
that the claim was settled. It is not uncommon for persons to recover, during sleep, the thread
of ideas which they have lost during their waking hours.

It may be added, that this remarkable circumstance was attended with bad consequences to Mr.
Rutherfurd; whose health and spirits were afterwards impaired by the attention which he thought
himself obliged to pay to the visions of the night.

Note E, p. #.—Nick-sticks.

A sort of tally generally used by bakers of the olden time in settling with their customers.
Each family had its own nick-stick, and for each loaf as delivered a notch was made on the
stick. Accounts in Exchequer, kept by the same kind of check, may have occasioned the Antiquary's
partiality. In Prior's time the English bakers had the same sort of reckoning.

                   Have you not seen a baker's maid,
                   Between two equal panniers sway'd?
                   Her tallies useless lie and idle,
                     If placed exactly in the middle.

Note F, p. #.—Witchcraft.

A great deal of stuff to the same purpose with that placed in the mouth of the German adept,
may be found in Reginald Scott's Discovery of Witchcraft, Third Edition, folio, London, 1665.
The Appendix is entitled, "An Excellent Discourse of the Nature and Substances of Devils and
Spirits, in two Books; the first by the aforesaid author (Reginald Scott), the Second now added
in this Third Edition as succedaneous to the former, and conducing to the completing of the
whole work." This Second Book, though stated as succedaneous to the first, is, in fact, entirely
at variance with it; for the work of Reginald Scott is a compilation of the absurd and superstitious
ideas concerning witches so generally entertained at the time, and the pretended conclusion
is a serious treatise on the various means of conjuring astral spirits.

[Scott's Discovery of Witchcraft was first published in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, London,
1584.]

Note G, p. #.—Gynecocracy.

