This anger was raised almost to the point of white heat on the morrow. The cause of the old
mare's behavior, and the interview which had led to the practical joke, soon became an open
secret, and while it convulsed the town with laughter, it also gave the impression that young
Haldane was in a "bad way."

It was not long before Mrs. Haldane received a note from an indignant fellow church-member,
in which, with some disagreeable comment, her son's conduct was plainly stated. She was also
informed that the doctor had become aware of the rude jest of which he had been the subject.
Mrs. Haldane was almost furious; but her son grew sullen and obstinate as the storm which he
had raised increased. The only thing he would say as an apology or excuse amounted to this:

"What else could he expect from one who he so emphatically asserted was a sinner?"

The mother wrote at once to the doctor, and was profuse in her apologies and regrets, but was
obliged to admit to him that her son was beyond her control.

When the doctor first learned the truth his equanimity was almost as greatly disturbed as it
had been on the previous day, and his first emotions were obviously those of wrath. But a little
thought brought him to a better mood.

He was naturally deficient in tact, and his long habit of dwelling upon abstract and systematic
truth had diminished his power of observantly and intuitively gauging the character of the
one with whom he was dealing. He therefore often failed wofully in adaptation, and his sermons
occasionally went off into rarefied realms of moral space, where nothing human existed. But
his heart was true and warm, and his Master's cause of far more consequence to him than his
own dignity.

As he considered the matter maturely he came to the conclusion that there must have been something
wrong on both sides. If he had presented the truth properly the young man could not have acted
so improperly. After recalling the whole affair, he became satisfied that he had relied far
too much on his own strong logic, and it had seemed to him that it must convince. But for the function to be held habíanla
adorned as they could. Flower garlands surrounded the main altar covered with white cloths pressed
from fresh. They had hung some curtains in wall paintings near the altar and some soil upholstered
with carpet, dirty and and torn in several places, which came to light forty years, in the solemn
days. Ms Eloise, the godmother of the new priest, and the ladies who had assisted in the noble endeavor
to give race, have added some details to trim crude and sensitive routine the sexton. Big pots
of flowers placed in vases art drawn from the best town houses, some damask curtains forming canopy
over the altar, candlesticks, spiders.
 He opened it with a contemptuous frown, expecting to find within only indignant
upbraidings; but his face changed rapidly as he read the following words:

"MY DEAR YOUNG FRIEND--I hardly know which of us should apologize. I now perceive and frankly
admit that there was wrong on my side. I could not have approached you and spoken to you in
the right spirit, for if I had, what followed could not have occurred. I fear there was a self-sufficiency
in my words and mariner yesterday, which made you conscious of Dr. Marks only, and you had
no scruples in dealing with Dr. Marks as you did. If my words and bearing had brought you face
to face with my august yet merciful Master, you would have respected Him, and also me, His
servant. I confess that I was very angry this morning, for I am human. But now I am more concerned
lest I have prejudiced you against Him by whom alone we all are saved. Yours faithfully,

"ZEBULON MARKS."

The moment Haldane finished reading the note he left the room, and his mother heard him at
the hat-rack in the hall, preparing to go out. She, supposing that he was again about to seek
some of his evil haunts, remonstrated sharply; but, without paying the slightest attention
to her words, he departed, and within less than half an hour rang the bell at the parsonage.

Dr. Marks could scarcely believe his eyes as the young man was shown into his study, but he
welcomed him as cordially as though nothing unpleasant had occurred between them.

After a moment's hesitation and embarrassment Haldane began:

"When I read your note this evening I had not the slightest doubt that I was the one to apologize,
and I sincerely ask your pardon."

The old gentleman's eyes grew moist, and he blew his nose in a rather unusual manner. But he
said promptly:

"Thank you, my young friend, thank you. I appreciate this. But no matter about me. How about
my Master? won't you become reconciled to Him?"

"I suppose by that you mean, won't you be a Christian?"

"That is just what I mean and most desire. I should be willing to risk broken bones any day
to accomplish that."

Haldane smiled, shook his head, and after a moment said:

"I must confess that I have not the slightest wish to become a Christian."

The old gentleman's eager and interested expression changed instantly to one of the deepest
sorrow and commiseration. At the same time he appeared bewildered and perplexed, but murmured,
more in soliloquy than as an address to the young man:

"O Ephraim! how shall I give thee up?"

Haldane was touched by the venerable man's tone and manner, more than he would have thought
possible, and, feeling that he could not trust himself any longer, determined to make his escape
as soon as practicable. But as he rose to take his leave he said, a little impulsively:

"I feel sure, sir, that if you had spoken and looked yesterday as you do this evening I would
not have--I would not have--"

"I understand, my young friend; I now feel sure that I was more to blame than yourself, and
your part is already forgiven and forgotten. I am now only solicitous about you."

"You are very kind to feel so after what has happened, and I will say this much--If I ever
do wish to become a Christian, there is no one living to whom I will come for counsel more
quickly than yourself. Good-night, sir."

"Give me your hand before you go."

It was a strong, warm, lingering grasp that the old man gave, and in the dark days of temptation
that followed, Haldane often felt that it had a helping and sustaining influence.

"I wish I could hold on to you," said the doctor huskily; "I wish I could lead you by loving
force into the paths of pleasantness and peace. But what I can't do, God can. Good-by, and
God bless you."

Haldane fled rather precipitously, for he felt that he was becoming constrained by a loving
violence that was as mysterious as it was powerful. Before he had passed through the main street
of the town, however, a reckless companion placed an arm in his, and led him to one of their
haunts, where he drank deeper than usual, that he might get rid of the compunctions which the
recent interview had occasioned.

His mother was almost in despair when he returned. He had, indeed, become to her a terrible
and perplexing problem. As she considered the legitimate results of her own weak indulgence
she would sigh again and again:

"Never was there a darker and more mysterious providence. I feel that I can neither understand
it nor submit."

A sense of helplessness in dealing with this stubborn and perverse will overwhelmed her, and,
while feeling that something must be done, she was at a loss what to do. Her spiritual adviser
having failed to meet the case, she next summoned her legal counsellor, who managed her property.

He was a man of few words, and an adept in worldly wisdom.

"Your son should have employment," he said;

  "'Satan finds some mischief still
  For idle hands,'

"etc., is a sound maxim, if not first-class poetry. If Mr. Arnot, the husband of your old friend,
is willing to take him, you cannot do better than place your son in his charge, for he is one
of the most methodical and successful business men of my acquaintance."

Mrs. Arnot, in response to her friend's letter, induced her husband to make a position in his
counting-house for young Haldane, who, from a natural desire to see more of the world, entered
into the arrangement very willingly.

CHAPTER III

CHAINED TO AN ICEBERG

Hillaton, the suburban city in which the Arnots resided, was not very distant from New York,
and drew much of its prosperity from its relations with the metropolis. It prided itself much
on being a university town, but more because many old families of extremely blue blood and
large wealth gave tone and color to its society. It is true that this highest social circle
was very exclusive, and formed but a small fraction of the population; but the people in general
had come to speak of "our society," as being "unusually good," just as they commended to strangers
the architecture of "our college buildings," though they had little to do with either.

Mrs. Arnot's blood, however, was as blue as that of the most ancient and aristocratic of her
neighbors, while in character and culture she had few equals. But with the majority of those
most cerulean in their vital fluid the fact that she possessed large wealth in her own name,
and was the wife of a man engaged in a colossal business, weighed more than all her graces
and ancestral honors.

Young Haldane's employer, Mr. Arnot, was, indeed, a man of business and method, for the one
absorbed his very soul, and the other divided his life into cubes and right angles of manner
and habit. It could scarcely be said that he had settled down into ruts, for this would presuppose
the passiveness of a nature controlled largely by circumstances. People who travel in ruts
drop more often into those made by others than such as are worn by themselves. Mr. Arnot moved
rather in his own well-defined grooves, which he had deliberately furrowed out with his own
steely will. In these he went through the day with the same strong, relentless precision which
characterized the machinery in his several manufacturing establishments.

He was a man, too, who had always had his own way, and, as is usually true in such instances,
the forces of his life had become wholly centripetal.

The cosmos of the selfish man or woman is practically this--Myself the centre of the universe,
and all things else are near or remote, of value or otherwise, in accordance with their value
and interest to me.

Measuring by this scale of distances (which was the only correct one in the case of Mr. Arnot)
the wife of his bosom was quite a remote object. She formed no part of his business, and he,
in his hard, narrow worldliness, could not even understand the principles and motives of her
action. She was a true and dutiful wife, and presided over his household with elegance and
refinement; but he regarded all this as a matter of course. He could not conceive of anything
else in his wife. All his "subordinates" in their several spheres, "must" perform their duties
with becoming propriety. Everything "must be regular and systematic" in his house, as truly
as in his factories and counting-room. Similarly
another portion of respectable neighbors experienced untold inconvenience in that memorable evening
for the first time that a young man sang Mass in the town.

As always, there were bulls for the dead. Privileged site, between the wooden fence and the altar,
not only were the matron and the women who had paid the rush to lend, but others who did not
attend any right, and what is even more worthy of censure, some few
men.

For a long time she had tried to be an affectionate as well as a faithful wife, for she had
married this man from love. She had mistaken his cool self-poise for the calmness and steadiness
of strength; and women are captivated by strength, and sometimes by its semblance. He was strong;
but so also are the driving-wheels of an engine.

There is an undefined, half-recognized force in nature which leads many to seek to balance
themselves by marrying their opposites in temperament. While the general working of this tendency
is, no doubt, beneficent, it not unfrequently brings together those who are so radically different,
that they cannot supplement each other, but must ever remain two distinct, unblended lives,
that are in duty bound to obey the letter of the law of marriage, but who cannot fulfil its spirit.

For years Mrs. Arnot had sought with all a woman's tact to consummate their marriage, so that
the mystical words of God, "And they twain shall be one flesh," should describe their union;
but as time passed she had seen her task grow more and more hopeless. The controlling principles
of each life were utterly different. He was hardening into stone, while the dross and materiality
of her nature were being daily refined away. A strong but wholly selfish character cannot blend
by giving and taking, and thus becoming modified into something different and better. It can
only absorb, and thus drag down to its own condition. Before there can be unity the weaker
one must give up and yield personal will and independence to such a degree that it is almost
equivalent to being devoured and assimilated.

But Mr. Arnot seemed to grow too narrow and self-sufficient in his nature for such spiritual
cannibalism, even had his wife been a weak, neutral character, with no decided and persistent
individuality of her own. He was not slow in exacting outward and mechanical service, but he
had no time to "bother" with her thoughts, feelings, and opinions; nor did he think it worth
while, to any extent, to lead her to reflect only his feelings and opinions. Neither she nor
any one else was very essential to him. His business was necessary, and he valued it even more
than the wealth which resulted from it. He grew somewhat like his machinery, which needed attention,
but which cherished no sentiments toward those who waited on it during its hours of motion.

Thus, though not deliberately intending it, his manner toward his wife had come to be more
and more the equivalent of a steady black frost, and she at last feared that the man had congealed
or petrified to his very heart's core.

While the only love in Mr. Arnot's heart was self-love, even in this there existed no trace
of weak indulgence and tenderness. His life consisted in making his vast and complicated business
go forward steadily, systematically, and successfully; and he would not permit that entity
known as Thomas Arnot to thwart him any more than he would brook opposition or neglect in his
office-boy. All things, even himself, must bend to the furtherance of his cherished objects.

