He made the longest address that day to the Thessalians and other Greeks, who answered him
with loud shouts, desiring him to lead them on against the barbarians, upon which he shifted
his javelin into his left hand, and with his right lifted up towards heaven, besought the gods,
as Callisthenes tells us, that if he was of a truth the son of Jupiter, they would he pleased
to assist and strengthen the Grecians.  At the same time the augur Aristander, who had a white
mantle about him, and a crown of gold on his head, rode by and showed them an eagle that soared
just over Alexander, and directed his Right towards the enemy; which so animated the beholders,
that after mutual encouragements and exhortations, the horse charged at full speed, and were
followed in a mass by the whole phalanx of the foot.  But before they could well come to blows
with the first ranks, the barbarians shrunk back, and were hotly pursued by Alexander, who
drove those that fled before him into the middle of the battle, where Darius himself was in
person, whom he saw from a distance over the foremost ranks, conspicuous in the midst of his
life-guard, a tall and fine-looking man, drawn in a lofty chariot, defended by an abundance
of the best horse, who stood close in order about it, ready to receive the enemy. But Alexander's
approach was so terrible, forcing those who gave back upon those who yet maintained their ground,
that he beat down and dispersed them almost all.  Only a few of the bravest and valiantest
opposed the pursuit, who were slain in their king's presence, falling in heaps upon one another,
and in the very pangs of death striving to catch hold of the horses.  Darius now seeing all
was lost, that those who were placed in front to defend him were broken and beat back upon
him, that he could not turn or disengage his chariot without great difficulty, the wheels being
clogged and entangled among the dead bodies, which lay in such heaps as not only stopped, but
almost covered the horses, and made them rear and grow so unruly, that the frighted charioteer
could govern them no longer, in this extremity was glad to quit his chariot and his arms, and
mounting, it is said, upon a mare that had been taken from her foal, betook himself to flight.
But he had not escaped so either, if Parmenio had not sent fresh messengers to Alexander, to
desire him to return and assist him against a considerable body of the enemy which yet stood
together, and would not give ground.  For, indeed, Parmenio is on all hands accused of having
been sluggish and unserviceable in this battle, whether age had impaired his courage, or that,
as Callisthenes says, he secretly disliked and envied Alexander's growing greatness.  Alexander,
though he was not a little vexed to be so recalled and hindered from pursuing his victory,
yet concealed the true reason from his men, and causing a retreat to be sounded, as if it were
too late to continue the execution any longer, marched back towards the place of danger, and
by the way met with the news of the enemy's total overthrow and flight.

This battle being thus over, seemed to put a period to the Persian empire; and Alexander, who
was now proclaimed king of Asia, returned thanks to the gods in magnificent sacrifices, and
rewarded his friends and followers with great sums of money, and places, and governments of
provinces.  And eager to gain honor with the Grecians, he wrote to them that he would have
all tyrannies abolished, that they might live free according to their own laws, and specially
to the Plataeans, that their city should be rebuilt, because their ancestors had permitted
their countrymen of old to make their territory the seat of the war, when they fought with
the barbarians for their common liberty.  He sent also part of the spoils into Italy, to the
Crotoniats, to honor the zeal and courage of their citizen Phayllus, the wrestler, who, in
the Median war, when the other Grecian colonies in Italy disowned Greece, that he might have
a share in the danger, joined the fleet at Salamis, with a vessel set forth at his own charge.
So affectionate was Alexander to all kind of virtue, and so desirous to preserve the memory
of laudable actions.

From hence he marched through the province of Babylon, which immediately submitted to him,
and in Ecbatana was much surprised at the sight of the place where fire issues in a continuous
stream, like a spring of water, out of a cleft in the earth, and the stream of naphtha, which,
not far from this spot, flows out so abundantly as to form a sort of lake.  This naphtha, in
other respects resembling bitumen, is so subject to take fire, that before it touches the flame,
it will kindle at the very light that surrounds it, and often inflame the intermediate air
also.  The barbarians, to show the power and nature of it, sprinkled the street that led to
the king's lodgings with little drops of it, and when it was almost night, stood at the further
end with torches, which being applied to the moistened places, the first at once taking fire,
instantly, as quick as a man could think of it, it caught from one end to another, in such
a manner that the whole street was one continued flame.  Among those who used to wait on the
king and find occasion to amuse him when he anointed and washed himself, there was one Athenophanes,
an Athenian, who desired him to make an experiment of the naphtha upon Stephanus, who stood
by in the bathing place, a youth with a ridiculously ugly face, whose talent was singing well,
"For," said he, "if it take hold of him and is not put out, it must undeniably be allowed to
be of the most invincible strength."  The youth, as it happened, readily consented to undergo
the trial, and as soon as he was anointed and rubbed with it, his whole body broke out into
such a flame, and was so seized by the fire, that Alexander was in the greatest perplexity
and alarm for him, and not without reason; for nothing could have prevented his being consumed
by it, if by good chance there had not been people at hand with a great many vessels of water
for the service of the bath, with all which they had much ado to extinguish the fire; and his
body was so burned all over, that he was not cured of it a good while after. And thus it is
not without some plausibility that they endeavor to reconcile the fable to truth, who say this
was the drug in the tragedies with which Medea anointed the crown and veil which she gave to
Creon's daughter.  For neither the things themselves, nor the fire could kindle of its own
accord, but being prepared for it by the naphtha, they imperceptibly attracted and caught a
flame which happened to be brought near them.  For the rays and emanations of fire at a distance
have no other effect upon some bodies than bare light and heat, but in others, where they meet
with airy dryness, and also sufficient rich moisture, they collect themselves and soon kindle
and create a transformation.  The manner, however, of the production of naphtha admits of a
diversity of opinion on whether this liquid substance that feeds the flame does not rather
proceed from a soil that is unctuous and productive of fire, as that of the province of Babylon
is, where the ground is so very hot, that oftentimes the grains of barley leap up, and are
thrown out, as if the violent inflammation had made the earth throb; and in the extreme heats
the inhabitants are wont to sleep upon skins filled with water. Harpalus, who was left governor
of this country, and was desirous to adorn the palace gardens and walks with Grecian plants,
succeeded in raising all but ivy, which the earth would not bear, but constantly killed.  For
being a plant that loves a cold soil, the temper of this hot and fiery earth was improper for
it.  But such digressions as these the impatient reader will be more willing to pardon, if
they are kept within a moderate compass.

At the taking of Susa, Alexander found in the palace forty thousand talents in money ready
coined, besides an unspeakable quantity of other furniture and treasure; amongst which was
five thousand talents' worth of Hermionian purple, that had been laid up there a hundred and
ninety years, and yet kept its color as fresh and lively as at first.  The reason of which,
they say, is that in dyeing the purple they made use of honey, and of white oil in the white
tincture, both which after the like space of time preserve the clearness and brightness of
their luster.  Dinon also relates that the Persian kings had water fetched from the Nile and
the Danube, which they laid up in their treasuries as a sort of testimony of the greatness
of their power and universal empire.

The entrance into Persia was through a most difficult country, and was guarded by the noblest
of the Persians, Darius himself having escaped further.  Alexander, however, chanced to find
a guide in exact correspondence with what the Pythia had foretold when he was a child, that
a lycus should conduct him into Persia. For by such an one, whose father was a Lycian, and
his mother a Persian, and who spoke both languages, he was now led into the country, by a way
something about, yet without fetching any considerable compass.  Here a great many of the prisoners
were put to the sword, of which himself gives this account, that he commanded them to be killed
in the belief that it would be for his advantage.  Nor was the money found here less, he says,
than at Susa, besides other movables and treasure, as much as ten thousand pair of mules and
five thousand camels could well carry away. Amongst other things he happened to observe a large
statue of Xerxes thrown carelessly down to the ground in the confusion made by the multitude
of soldiers pressing; into the palace.  He stood still, and accosting it as if it had been
alive, "Shall we," said he, "neglectfully pass thee by, now thou art prostrate on the ground,
because thou once invadedst Greece, or shall we erect thee again in consideration of the greatness
of thy mind and thy other virtues?"  But at last, after he had paused some time, and silently
considered with himself, he went on without taking any further notice of it.  In this place
he took up his winter quarters, and stayed four months to refresh his soldiers.  It is related
that the first time he sat on the royal throne of Persia, under the canopy of gold, Demaratus,
the Corinthian, who was much attached to him and had been one of his father's friends, wept,
in an old man's manner, and deplored the misfortune of those Creeks whom death had deprived
of the satisfaction of seeing Alexander seated on the throne of Darius.

From hence designing to march against Darius, before he set out, he diverted himself with his
officers at an entertainment of drinking and other pastimes, and indulged so far as to let
every one's mistress sit by and drink with them.  The most celebrated of them was Thais, an
Athenian, mistress of Ptolemy, who was afterwards king of Egypt.  She, partly as a sort of
well-turned compliment to Alexander, partly out of sport, as the drinking went on, at last
was carried so far as to utter a saying, not misbecoming her native country's character, though
somewhat too lofty for her own condition.  She said it was indeed some recompense for the toils
she had undergone in following the camp all over Asia, that she was that day treated in, and
could insult over, the stately palace of the Persian monarchs.  But, she added, it would please
her much better, if while the king looked on, she might in sport, with her own hands, set fire
to the court of that Xerxes who reduced the city of Athens to ashes, that it might be recorded
to posterity, that the women who followed Alexander had taken a severer revenge on the Persians
for the sufferings and affronts of Greece, than all the famed commanders had been able to do
by sea or land.  What she said was received with such universal liking and murmurs of applause,
and so seconded by the encouragement and eagerness of the company, that the king himself, persuaded
to be of the party, started from his seat, and with a chaplet of flowers on his head, and a
lighted torch in his hand, led them the way, while they went after him in a riotous manner,
dancing and making loud cries about the place; which when the rest of the Macedonians perceived,
they also in great delight ran thither with torches; for they hoped the burning and destruction
of the royal palace was an argument that he looked homeward, and had no design to reside among
the barbarians.  Thus some writers give their account of this action, while others say it was
done deliberately; however, all agree that he soon repented of it, and gave order to put out
the fire.

Alexander was naturally most munificent, and grew more so as his fortune increased, accompanying
what he gave with that courtesy and freedom, which, to speak truth, is necessary to make a
benefit really obliging.  I will give a few instances of this kind. Ariston, the captain of
the Paeonians, having killed an enemy, brought his head to show him, and told him that in his
country, such a present was recompensed with a cup of gold.  "With an empty one," said Alexander,
smiling, "but I drink to you in this, which I give you full of wine."  Another time, as one
of the common soldier was driving a mule laden with some of the king's treasure, the beast
grew tired, and the soldier took it upon his own back, and began to march with it, till Alexander
seeing the man so overcharged, asked what was the matter; and when he was informed, just as
he was ready to lay down his burden for weariness, "Do not faint now," said he to him, "but
finish the journey, and carry what you have there to your own tent for yourself."  He was always
more displeased with those who would not accept of what he gave than with those who begged
of him.  And therefore he wrote to Phocion, that he would not own him for his friend any longer,
if he refused his presents.  He had never given anything to Serapion, one of the youths that
played at ball with him, because he did not ask of him, till one day, it coming to Serapion's
turn to play, he still threw the ball to others, and when the king asked him why he did not
direct it to him, "Because you do not ask for it," said he; which answer pleased him so, that
he was very liberal to him afterwards.  One Proteas, a pleasant, jesting, drinking fellow,
having incurred his displeasure, got his friends to intercede for him, and begged his pardon
himself with tears, which at last prevailed, and Alexander declared he was friends with him.
"I cannot believe it," said Proteas, "unless you first give me some pledge of it."  The king
understood his meaning, and presently ordered five talents to be given him.  How magnificent
he was in enriching his friends, and those who attended on his person, appears by a letter
which Olympias wrote to him, where she tells him he should reward and honor those about him
in a more moderate way, For now," said she, "you make them all equal to kings, you give them
power and opportunity of making many friends of their own, and in the meantime you leave yourself
destitute."  She often wrote to him to this purpose, and he never communicated her letters
to anybody, unless it were one which he opened when Hephaestion was by, whom he permitted,
as his custom was, to read it along with him; but then as soon as he had done, he took off
his ring, and set the seal upon Hephaestion's lips.  Mazaeus, who was the most considerable
man in Darius's court, had a son who was already governor of a province.  Alexander bestowed
another upon him that was better; he, however, modestly refused, and told him, instead of one
Darius, he went the way to make many Alexanders. To Parmenio he gave Bagoas's house, in which
he found a wardrobe of apparel worth more than a thousand talents.  He wrote to Antipater,
commanding him to keep a life-guard about him for the security of his person against conspiracies.
To his mother he sent many presents, but would never suffer her to meddle with matters of state
or war, not indulging her busy temper, and when she fell out with him upon this account, he
bore her ill-humor very patiently.  Nay more, when he read a long letter from Antipater, full
of accusations against her, "Antipater," he said, "does not know that one tear of a mother
effaces a thousand such letters as these."

But when he perceived his favorites grow so luxurious and extravagant in their way of living
and expenses, that Hagnon, the Teian, wore silver nails in his shoes, that Leonnatus employed
several camels, only to bring him powder out of Egypt to use when he wrestled, and that Philotas
had hunting nets a hundred furlongs in length, that more used precious ointment than plain
oil when they went to bathe, and that they carried about servants everywhere with them to rub
them and wait upon them in their chambers, he reproved them in gentle and reasonable terms,
telling them he wondered that they who had been engaged in so many signal battles did not know
by experience, that those who labor sleep more sweetly and soundly than those who are labored
for, and could fail to see by comparing the Persians' manner of living with their own, that
it was the most abject and slavish condition to be voluptuous, but the most noble arid royal
to undergo pain and labor.  He argued with them further, how it was possible for anyone who
pretended to be a soldier, either to look well after his horse, or to keep his armor bright
and in good order, who thought it much to let his hands be serviceable to what was nearest
to him, his own body.  "Are you still to learn," said he, "that the end and perfection of our
victories is to avoid the vices and infirmities of those whom we subdue?"  And to strengthen
his precepts by example, he applied himself now more vigorously than ever to hunting and warlike
expeditions, embracing all opportunities of hardship and danger, insomuch that a Lacedaemonian,
who was there on an embassy to him, and chanced to be by when he encountered with and mastered
a huge lion, told him he had fought gallantly with the beast, which of the two should be king.
Craterus caused a representation to be made of this adventure, consisting of the lion and the
dogs, of the king engaged with the lion, and himself coming in to his assistance, all expressed
in figures of brass, some of which were by Lysippus, and the rest by Leochares; and had it
dedicated in the temple of Apollo at Delphi.  Alexander exposed his person to danger in this
manner, with the object both of inuring himself, and inciting others to the performance of
brave and virtuous actions.

But his followers, who were grown rich, and consequently proud, longed to indulge themselves
in pleasure and idleness, and were weary of marches and expeditions, and at last went on so
far as to censure and speak ill of him.  All which at first he bore very patiently, saying,
it became a king well to do good to others, and be evil spoken of.  Meantime, on the smallest
occasions that called for a show of kindness to his friends, there was every indication on
his part of tenderness and respect.  Hearing Peucestes was bitten by a bear, he wrote to him,
that he took it unkindly he should send others notice of it, and not make him acquainted with
it; "But now," said he, "since it is so, let me know how you do, and whether any of your companions
forsook you when you were in danger, that I may punish them."  He sent Hephaestion, who was
absent about some business, word how while they were fighting for their diversion with an ichneumon,
Craterus was by chance run through both thighs with Perdiccas's javelin. And upon Peucestes's
recovery from a fit of sickness, he sent a letter of thanks to his physician Alexippus.  When
Craterus was ill, he saw a vision in his sleep, after which he offered sacrifices for his health,
and bade him to do so likewise.  He wrote also to Pausanias, the physician, who was about to
purge Craterus with hellebore, partly out of an anxious concern for him, and partly to give
him a caution how he used that medicine.  He was so tender of his friends' reputation that
he imprisoned Ephialtes and Cissus, who brought him the first news of Harpalus's flight and
withdrawal from his service, as if they had falsely accused him.  When he sent the old and
infirm soldiers home, Eurylochus, a citizen of Aegae, got his name enrolled among the sick,
though he ailed nothing, which being discovered, he confessed he was in love with a young woman
named Telesippa, and wanted to go along with her to the seaside.  Alexander inquired to whom
the woman belonged, and being told she was a free courtesan, "I will assist you," said he to
Eurylochus, "in your amour, if your mistress be to be gained either by presents or persuasions;
but we must use no other means, because she is free-born."

It is surprising to consider upon what slight occasions he would write letters to serve his
friends.  As when he wrote one in which he gave order to search for a youth that belonged to
Seleucus, who was run away into Cilicia; and in another, thanked and commended Peucestes for
apprehending Nicon, a servant of Craterus; and in one to Megabyzus, concerning a slave that
had taken sanctuary in a temple, gave direction that he should not meddle with him while he
was there, but if he could entice him out by fair means, then he gave him leave to seize him.
It is reported of him that when he first sat in judgment upon capital causes, he would lay
his hand upon one of his ears while the accuser spoke, to keep it free and unprejudiced in
behalf of the party accused.  But afterwards such a multitude of accusations were brought before
him, and so many proved true, that he lost his tenderness of heart, and gave credit to those
also that were false; and especially when anybody spoke ill of him, he would be transported
out of his reason, and show himself cruel and inexorable, valuing his glory and reputation
beyond his life or kingdom.

He now, as we said, set forth to seek Darius, expecting he should be put to the hazard of another
battle, but heard he was taken and secured by Bessus, upon which news he sent home the Thessalians,
and gave them a largess of two thousand talents over and above the pay that was due to them.
This long and painful pursuit of Darius, for in eleven days he marched thirty-three hundred
furlongs, harassed his soldiers so that most of them were ready to give it up, chiefly for
want of water.  While they were in this distress, it happened that some Macedonians who had
fetched water in skins upon their mules from a river they had found out, came about noon to
the place where Alexander was, and seeing him almost choked with thirst, presently filled a
helmet and offered it him. He asked them to whom they were carrying the water; they told him
to their children, adding, that if his life were but saved, it was no matter for them, they
should be able well enough to repair that loss, though they all perished.  Then he took the
helmet into his hands, and looking round about, when he saw all those who were near him stretching
their heads out and looking, earnestly after the drink, he returned it again with thanks without
tasting a drop of it, "For," said he, "if I alone should drink, the rest will be out of heart."
The soldiers no sooner took notice of his temperance and magnanimity upon this occasion, but
they one and all cried out to him to lead them forward boldly, and began whipping on their
horses.  For whilst they had such a king, they said they defied both weariness and thirst,
and looked upon themselves to be little less than immortal.  But though they were all equally
cheerful and willing, yet not above threescore horse were able, it is said, to keep up, and
to fall in with Alexander upon the enemy's camp, where they rode over abundance of gold and
silver that lay scattered about, and passing by a great many chariots full of women that wandered
here and there for want of drivers, they endeavored to overtake the first of those that fled,
in hopes to meet with Darius among them.  And at last, after much trouble, they found him lying
in a chariot, wounded all over with darts, just at the point of death.  However, he desired
they would give him some drink, and when he had drunk a little cold water, he told Polystratus,
who gave it him, that it had become the last extremity of his ill fortune, to receive benefits
and not be able to return them.  "But Alexander," said he, "whose kindness to my mother, my
wife, and my children I hope the gods will recompense, will doubtless thank you for your humanity
to me.  Tell him, therefore, in token of my acknowledgment, I give him this right hand," with
which words he took hold of Polystratus's hand and died.  When Alexander came up to them, he
showed manifest tokens of sorrow, and taking off his own cloak, threw it upon the body to cover
it.  And sometime afterwards, when Bessus was taken, he ordered him to be torn in pieces in
this manner.  They fastened him to a couple of trees which were bound down so as to meet, and
then being let loose, with a great force returned to their places, each of them carrying that
part of the body along with it that was tied to it.  Darius's body was laid in state, and sent
to his mother with pomp suitable to his quality.  His brother Exathres, Alexander received
into the number of his intimate friends.

And now with the flower of his army he marched into Hyrcania, where he saw a large bay of an
open sea, apparently not much less than the Euxine, with water, however, sweeter than that
of other seas, but could learn nothing of certainty concerning it, further than that in all
probability it seemed to him to be an arm issuing from the lake of Maeotis.  However, the naturalists
were better informed of the truth, and had given an account of it many years before Alexander's
expedition; that of four gulfs which out of the main sea enter into the continent, this, known
indifferently as the Caspian and as the Hyrcanian sea, is the most northern.  Here the barbarians,
unexpectedly meeting with those who led Bucephalas, took them prisoners, and carried the horse
away with them, at which Alexander was so much vexed, that he sent a herald to let them know
he would put them all to the sword, men, women, and children, without mercy, if they did not
restore him.  But on their doing so, and at the same time surrendering their cities into his
hands, he not only treated them kindly, but also paid a ramsom for his horse to those who took him.

From hence he marched into Parthia, where not having much to do, he first put on the barbaric
dress, perhaps with the view of making the work of civilizing them the easier, as nothing gains
more upon men than a conformity to their fashions and customs.  Or it may have been as a first
trial, whether the Macedonians might be brought to adore him, as the Persians did their kings,
by accustoming them by little and little to bear with the alteration of his rule and course
of life in other things.  However, he followed not the Median fashion, which was altogether
foreign and uncouth, and adopted neither the trousers nor the sleeved vest, nor the tiara for
the head, but taking a middle way between the Persian mode and the Macedonian, so contrived
his habit that it was not so flaunting as the one, and yet more pompous and magnificent than
the other.  At first he wore this habit only when he conversed with the barbarians, or within
doors, among his intimate friends and companions, but afterwards he appeared in it abroad,
when he rode out, and at public audiences, a sight which the Macedonians beheld with grief;
but they so respected his other virtues and good qualities, that they felt it reasonable in
some things to gratify his fancies and his passion of glory, in pursuit of which he hazarded
himself so far, that, besides his other adventures, he had but lately been wounded in the leg
by an arrow, which had so shattered the shank-bone that splinters were taken out.  And on another
occasion he received a violent blow with a stone upon the nape of the neck, which dimmed his
sight for a good while afterwards.  And yet all this could not hinder him from exposing himself
freely to any dangers, insomuch that he passed the river Orexartes, which he took to be the
Tanais, and putting the Scythians to flight, followed them above a hundred furlongs, though
suffering all the time from a diarrhea.

Here many affirm that the Amazon came to give him a visit.  So Clitarchus, Polyclitus, Onesicritus,
Antigenes, and Ister, tell us.  But Aristobulus and Chares, who held the office of reporter
of requests, Ptolemy and Anticlides, Philon the Theban, Philip of Theangela, Hecataeus the
Eretrian, Philip the Chalcidian, and Duris the Samian, say it is wholly a fiction.  And truly
Alexander himself seems to confirm the latter statement, for in a letter in which he gives
Antipater an account of all that happened, he tells him that the king of Scythia offered him
his daughter in marriage, but makes no mention at all of the Amazon.  And many years after,
when Onesicritus read this story in his fourth book to Lysimachus, who then reigned, the king
laughed quietly and asked, "Where could I have been at that time?"

But it signifies little to Alexander whether this be credited or no.  Certain it is, that apprehending
the Macedonians would be weary of pursuing the war, he left the greater part of them in their
quarters; and having with him in Hyrcania the choice of his men only, amounting to twenty thousand
foot, and three thousand horse, he spoke to them to this effect:  That hitherto the barbarians
had seen them no otherwise than as it were in a dream, and if they should think of returning
when they had only alarmed Asia, and not conquered it, their enemies would set upon them as
upon so many women.  However, he told them he would keep none of them with him against their
will, they might go if they pleased; he should merely enter his protest, that when on his way
to make the Macedonians the masters of the world, he was left alone with a few friends and
volunteers.  This is almost word for word, as he wrote in a letter to Antipater, where he adds,
that when he had thus spoken to them, they all cried out, they would go along with him whithersoever
it was his pleasure to lead them.  After succeeding with these, it was no hard matter for him
to bring over the multitude, which easily followed the example of their betters. Now, also,
he more and more accommodated himself in his way of living to that of the natives, and tried
to bring them, also, as near as he could to the Macedonian customs, wisely considering that
whilst he was engaged in an expedition which would carry him far from thence, it would be wiser
to depend upon the goodwill which might arise from intermixture and association as a means
of maintaining tranquillity, than upon force and compulsion.  In order to this, he chose out
thirty thousand boys, whom he put under masters to teach them the Greek tongue, and to train
them up to arms in the Macedonian discipline.  As for his marriage with Roxana, whose youthfulness
and beauty had charmed him at a drinking entertainment, where he first happened to see her,
taking part in a dance, it was, indeed, a love affair, yet it seemed at the same time to be
conducive to the object he had in hand.  For it gratified the conquered people to see him choose
a wife from among themselves, and it made them feel the most lively affection for him, to find
that in the only passion which he, the most temperate of men, was overcome by, he yet forbore
till he could obtain her in a lawful and honorable way.

Noticing, also, that among his chief friends and favorites, Hephaestion most approved all that
he did, and complied with and imitated him in his change of habits, while Craterus continued
strict in the observation of the customs and fashions of his own country, he made it his practice
to employ the first in all transactions with the Persians, and the latter when he had to do
with the Greeks or Macedonians.  And in general he showed more affection for Hephaestion, and
more respect for Craterus; Hephaestion, as he used to say, being Alexander's, and Craterus
the king's friend.  And so these two friends always bore in secret a grudge to each other,
and at times quarreled openly, so much so, that once in India they drew upon one another, and
were proceeding in good earnest, with their friends on each side to second them, when Alexander
rode up and publicly reproved Hephaestion, calling him fool and madman, not to be sensible
that without his favor he was nothing.  He rebuked Craterus, also, in private, severely, and
then causing them both to come into his presence, he reconciled them, at the same time swearing
by Ammon and the rest of the gods, that he loved them two above all other men, but if ever
he perceived them fall out again he would be sure to put both of them to death, or at least
the aggressor.  After which they neither ever did or said anything, so much as in jest, to
offend one another.

There was scarcely anyone who had greater repute among the Macedonians than Philotas, the son
of Parmenio.  For besides that he was valiant and able to endure any fatigue of war, he was
also next to Alexander himself the most munificent, and the greatest lover of his friends,
one of whom asking him for some money, he commanded his steward to give it him; and when he
told him he had not wherewith, "Have you not any plate then," said he, "or any clothes of mine
to sell?"  But he carried his arrogance and his pride of wealth and his habits of display and
luxury to a degree of assumption unbecoming a private man, and affecting all the loftiness
without succeeding in showing any of the grace or gentleness of true greatness, by this mistaken
and spurious majesty he gained so much envy and ill-will, that Parmenio would sometimes tell
him, "My son, to be not quite so great would be better."  For he had long before been complained
of, and accused to Alexander.  Particularly when Darius was defeated in Cilicia, and an immense
booty was taken at Damascus, among the rest of the prisoners who were brought into the camp,
there was one Antigone of Pydna, a very handsome woman, who fell to Philotas's share. The young
man one day in his cups, in the vaunting, outspoken, soldier's manner, declared to his mistress,
that all the great actions were performed by him and his father, the glory and benefit of which,
he said, together with the title of king, the boy Alexander reaped and enjoyed by their means.
She could not hold, but discovered what he had said to one of her acquaintance, and he, as
is usual in such cases, to another, till at last the story came to the ears of Craterus, who
brought the woman secretly to the king.  When Alexander had heard what she had to say, he commanded
her to continue her intrigue with Philotas, and give him an account from time to time of all
that should fall from him to this purpose.  He thus unwittingly caught in a snare, to gratify
some times a fit of anger, sometimes a mere love of vainglory, let himself utter numerous foolish,
indiscreet speeches against the king in Antigone's hearing, of which though Alexander was informed
and convinced by strong evidence, yet he would take no notice of it at present, whether it
was that he confided in Parmenio's affection and loyalty, or that he apprehended their authority
and interest in the army.  But about this time one Limnus, a Macedonian of Chalastra, conspired
against Alexander's life, and communicated his design to a youth whom he was fond of, named
Nicomachus, inviting him to be of the party.  But he not relishing the thing, revealed it to
his brother Balinus, who immediately addressed himself to Philotas, requiring him to introduce
them both to Alexander, to whom they had something of great moment to impart which very nearly
concerned him.  But he, for what reason is uncertain, went not with them, professing that the
king was engaged with affairs of more importance.  And when they had urged him a second time,
and were still slighted by him, they applied themselves to another, by whose means being admitted
into Alexander's presence, they first told about Limnus's conspiracy, and by the way let Philotas's
negligence appear, who had twice disregarded their application to him.  Alexander was greatly
incensed, and on finding that Limnus had defended himself, and had been killed by the soldier
who was sent to seize him, he was still more discomposed, thinking he had thus lost the means
of detecting the plot.  As soon as his displeasure against Philotas began to appear, presently
all his old enemies showed themselves, and said openly, the king was too easily imposed on,
to imagine that one so inconsiderable as Limnus, a Chalastrian, should of his own head undertake
such an enterprise; that in all likelihood he was but subservient to the design, an instrument
that was moved by some greater spring; that those ought to be more strictly examined about
the matter whose interest it was so much to conceal it. When they had once gained the king's
ear for insinuations of this sort, they went on to show a thousand grounds of suspicion against
Philotas, till at last they prevailed to have him seized and put to the torture, which was
done in the presence of the principal officers, Alexander himself being placed behind some
tapestry to understand what passed.  Where, when he heard in what a miserable tone, and with
what abject submissions Philotas applied himself to Hephaestion, he broke out, it is said,
in this manner:  "Are you so mean-spirited and effeminate, Philotas, and yet can engage in
so desperate a design?"  After his death, he presently sent into Media, and put also Parmenio,
his father, to death, who had done brave service under Philip, and was the only man, of his
older friends and counselors, who had encouraged Alexander to invade Asia.  Of three sons whom
he had had in the army, he had already lost two, and now was himself put to death with the
third.  These actions rendered Alexander an object of terror to many of his friends, and chiefly
to Antipater, who, to strengthen himself, sent messengers privately to treat for an alliance
with the Aetolians, who stood in fear of Alexander, because they had destroyed the town of
the Oeniadae; on being informed of which, Alexander had said the children of the Oeniadae need
not revenge their fathers' quarrel, for he would himself take care to punish the Aetolians.

Not long after this happened the deplorable end of Clitus, which to those who barely hear the
matter-of-fact, may seem more inhuman than that of Philotas; but if we consider the story with
its circumstance of time, and weigh the cause, we shall find it to have occurred rather through
a sort of mischance of the king's, whose anger and over-drinking offered an occasion to the
evil genius of Clitus.  The king had a present of Grecian fruit brought him from the sea-coast,
which was so fresh and beautiful, that he was surprised at it, and called Clitus to him to
see it, and to give him a share of it.  Clitus was then sacrificing, but he immediately left
off and came, followed by three sheep, on whom the drink-offering had been already poured preparatory
to sacrificing them.  Alexander, being informed of this, told his diviners, Aristander and
Cleomantis the Lacedaemonian, and asked them what it meant; on whose assuring him, it was an
ill omen, he commanded them in all haste to offer sacrifices for Clitus's safety, forasmuch
as three days before he himself had seen a strange vision in his sleep, of Clitus all in mourning,
sitting by Parmenio's sons who were dead.  Clitus, however, stayed not to finish his devotions,
but came straight to supper with the king, who had sacrificed to Castor and Pollux.  And when
they had drunk pretty hard, some of the company fell a singing the verses of one Pranichus,
or as others say of Pierion, which were made upon those captains who had been lately worsted
by the barbarians, on purpose to disgrace and turn them to ridicule.  This gave offense to
the older men who were there, and they upbraided both the author and the singer of the verses,
though Alexander and the younger men about him were much amused to hear them, and encouraged
them to go on, till at last Clitus, who had drunk too much, and was besides of a froward and
willful temper, was so nettled that he could hold no longer, saying, it was not well done to
expose the Macedonians so before the barbarians and their enemies, since though it was their
unhappiness to be overcome, yet they were much better men than those who laughed at them. 
And when Alexander remarked, that Clitus was pleading his own cause, giving cowardice the name
of misfortune, Clitus started up; "This cowardice, as you are pleased to term it," said he
to him, "saved the life of a son of the gods, when in flight from Spithridates's sword; and
it is by the expense of Macedonian blood, and by these wounds, that you are now raised to such
a height, as to be able to disown your father Philip, and call yourself the Son of Ammon."
"Thou base fellow," said Alexander, who was now thoroughly exasperated, "dost thou think to
utter these things everywhere of me, and stir up the Macedonians to sedition, and not be punished
for it?"  "We are sufficiently punished already," answered Clitus, "if this be the recompense
of our toils, and we must esteem theirs a happy lot, who have not lived to see their countrymen
scourged with Median rods, and forced to sue to the Persians to have access to their king."
While he talked thus at random, and those near Alexander got up from their seats and began
to revile him in turn, the elder men did what they could to compose the disorder.  Alexander,
in the meantime turning about to Xenodochus, the Cardian, and Artemius, the Colophonian, asked
them if they were not of opinion that the Greeks, in comparison with the Macedonians, behaved
themselves like so many demi-gods among wild beasts.  But Clitus for all this would not give
over, desiring Alexander to speak out if he had anything more to say, or else why did he invite
men who were freeborn and accustomed to speak their minds openly without restraint, to sup
with him.  He had better live and converse with barbarians and slaves who would not scruple
to bow the knee to his Persian girdle and his white tunic.  Which words so provoked Alexander,
that not able to suppress his anger any longer, he threw one of the apples that lay upon the
table at him, and hit him, and then looked about for his sword.  But Aristophanes, one of his
life-guard, had hid that out of the way, and others came about him and besought him, but in
vain.  For breaking from them, he called out aloud to his guards in the Macedonian language,
which was a certain sign of some great disturbance in him, and commanded a trumpeter to sound,
giving him a blow with his clenched fist for not instantly obeying him; though afterwards the
same man was commended for disobeying an order which would have put the whole army into tumult
and confusion.  Clitus still refusing to yield, was with much trouble forced by his friends
out of the room.  But he came in again immediately at another door, very irreverently and confidently
singing the verses out of Euripides's Andromache, --

In Greece, alas! how ill things ordered are!

Upon this, at last, Alexander, snatching a spear from one of the soldiers, met Clitus as he
was coming forward and was putting by the curtain that hung before the door, and ran him through
the body.  He fell at once with a cry and a groan.  Upon which the king's anger immediately
vanishing, he came perfectly to himself, and when he saw his friends about him all in a profound
silence, he pulled the spear out of the dead body, and would have thrust it into his own throat,
if the guards had not held his hands, and by main force carried him away into his chamber,
where all that night and the next day he wept bitterly, till being quite spent with lamenting
and exclaiming, he lay as it were speechless, only fetching deep sighs.  His friends apprehending
some harm from his silence, broke into the room, but he took no notice of what any of them
said, till Aristander putting him in mind of the vision he had seen concerning Clitus, and
the prodigy that followed, as if all had come to pass by an unavoidable fatality, he then seemed
to moderate his grief.  They now brought Callisthenes, the philosopher, who was the near friend
of Aristotle, and Anaxarchus of Abdera, to him.  Callisthenes used moral language, and gentle
and soothing means, hoping to find access for words of reason, and get a hold upon the passion.
But Anaxarchus, who had always taken a course of his own in philosophy, and had a name for
despising and slighting his contemporaries, as soon as he came in, cried out aloud, "Is this
the Alexander whom the whole world looks to, lying here weeping like a slave, for fear of the
censure and reproach of men, to whom he himself ought to be a law and measure of equity, if
he would use the right his conquests have given him as supreme lord and governor of all, and
not be the victim of a vain and idle opinion?  Do not you know," said he, "that Jupiter is
represented to have Justice and Law on each hand of him, to signify that all the actions of
a conqueror are lawful and just?"  With these and the like speeches, Anaxarchus indeed allayed
the king's grief, but withal corrupted his character, rendering him more audacious and lawless
than he had been.  Nor did he fail by these means to insinuate himself into his favor, and
to make Callisthenes's company, which at all times, because of his austerity, was not very
acceptable, more uneasy and disagreeable to him.

It happened that these two philosophers meeting at an entertainment, where conversation turned
on the subject of climate and the temperature of the air, Callisthenes joined with their opinion,
who held that those countries were colder, and the winter sharper there than in Greece.  Anaxarchus
would by no means allow this, but argued against it with some heat.  "Surely," said Callisthenes,
"you cannot but admit this country to be colder than Greece, for there you used to have but
one threadbare cloak to keep out the coldest winter, and here you have three good warm mantles
one over another."  This piece of raillery irritated Anaxarchus and the other pretenders to
learning, and the crowd of flatterers in general could not endure to see Callisthenes so much
admired and followed by the youth, and no less esteemed by the older men for his orderly life,
and his gravity, and for being contented with his condition; all confirming what he had professed
about the object he had in his journey to Alexander, that it was only to get his countrymen
recalled from banishment, and to rebuild and repeople his native town.  Besides the envy which
his great reputation raised, he also, by his own deportment, gave those who wished him ill,
opportunity to do him mischief.  For when he was invited to public entertainments, he would
most times refuse to come, or if he were present at any, he put a constraint upon the company
by his austerity and silence, which seemed to intimate his disapproval of what he saw.  So
that Alexander himself said in application to him,

That vain pretense to wisdom I detest, Where a man's blind to his own interest.

Being with many more invited to sup with the king, he was called upon when the cup came to
him, to make an oration extempore in praise of the Macedonians; and he did it with such a flow
of eloquence, that all who heard it rose from their seats to clap and applaud him, and threw
their garland upon him; only Alexander told him out of Euripides,

I wonder not that you have spoke so well, 'Tis easy on good subjects to excel.

"Therefore," said he, "if you will show the force of your eloquence, tell my Macedonians their
faults, and dispraise them, that by hearing their errors they may learn to he better for the
future."  Callisthenes presently obeyed him, retracting all he had said before, and, inveighing
against the Macedonians with great freedom, added, that Philip thrived and grew powerful, chiefly
by the discord of the Grecians, applying this verse to him:--

In civil strife e'en villains rise to fame;

which so offended the Macedonians, that he was odious to them ever after.  And Alexander said,
that instead of his eloquence, he had only made his ill-will appear in what he had spoken.
Hermippus assures us, that one Stroebus, a servant whom Callisthenes kept to read to him, gave
this account of these passages afterwards to Aristotle; and that when he perceived the king
grow more and more averse to him, two or three times, as he was going away, he repeated the
verses, --

Death seiz'd at last on great Patroclus too, Though he in virtue far exceeded you.

Not without reason, therefore, did Aristotle give this character of Callisthenes, that he was,
indeed, a powerful speaker, but had no judgment.  He acted certainly a true philosopher's part
in positively refusing, as he did, to pay adoration; and by speaking out openly against that
which the best and gravest of the Macedonians only repined at in secret, he delivered the Grecians
and Alexander himself from a great disgrace, when the practice was given up.  But he ruined
himself by it, because he went too roughly to work, as if he would have forced the king to
that which he should have effected by reason and persuasion.  Chares of Mitylene writes, that
at a banquet, Alexander, after he had drunk, reached the cup to one of his friends, who, on
receiving it, rose up towards the domestic altar, and when he had drunk, first adored, and
then kissed Alexander, and afterwards laid himself down at the table with the rest.  Which
they all did one after another, till it came to Callisthenes's turn, who took the cup and drank,
while the king who was engaged in conversation with Hephaestion was not observing, and then
came and offered to kiss him.  But Demetrius, surnamed Phidon, interposed, saying, "Sir, by
no means let him kiss you, for he only of us all has refused to adore you;" upon which the
king declined it, and all the concern Callisthenes showed was, that he said aloud, "Then I
go away with a kiss less than the rest."  The displeasure he incurred by this action procured
credit for Hephaestion's declaration that he had broken his word to him in not paying the king
the same veneration that others did, as he had faithfully promised to do.  And to finish his
disgrace, a number of such men as Lysimachus and Hagnon now came in with their asseverations
that the sophist went about everywhere boasting of his resistance to arbitrary power, and that
the young men all ran after him, and honored him as the only man among so many thousands who
had the courage to preserve his liberty.  Therefore when Hermolaus's conspiracy came to be
discovered, the charges which his enemies brought against him were the more easily believed,
particularly that when the young man asked him what he should do to be the most illustrious
person on earth, he told him the readiest way was to kill him who was already so; and that
to incite him to commit the deed, he bade him not be awed by the golden couch, but remember
Alexander was a man equally infirm and vulnerable as another.  However, none of Hermolaus's
accomplices, in the utmost extremity, made any mention of Callisthenes's being engaged in the
design.  Nay, Alexander himself, in the letters which he wrote soon after to Craterus, Attalus,
and Alcetas, tells them that the young men who were put to the torture, declared they had entered
into the conspiracy of themselves, without any others being privy to, or guilty of it. But
yet afterwards, in a letter to Antipater, he accuses Callisthenes.  "The young men," he says,
"were stoned to death by the Macedonians, but for the sophist," (meaning Callisthenes,) "I
will take care to punish him with them too who sent him to me, and who harbor those in their
cities who conspire against my life," an unequivocal declaration against Aristotle, in whose
house Callisthenes, for his relationship's sake, being his niece Hero's son, had been educated.
His death is variously related.  Some say he was hanged by Alexander's orders; others, that
he died of sickness in prison; but Chares writes he was kept in chains seven months after he
was apprehended, on purpose that he might be proceeded against in full council, when Aristotle
should be present; and that growing very fat, and contracting a disease of vermin, he there
died, about the time that Alexander was wounded in India, in the country of the Malli Oxydracae,
all which came to pass afterwards.

For to go on in order, Demaratus of Corinth, now quite an old man, had made a great effort,
about this time, to pay Alexander a visit; and when he had seen him, said he pitied the misfortune
of those Grecians, who were so unhappy as to die before they had beheld Alexander seated on
the throne of Darius.  But he did not long enjoy the benefit of the king's kindness for him,
any otherwise than that soon after falling sick and dying, he had a magnificent funeral, and
the army raised him a monument of earth, fourscore cubits high, and of a vast circumference.
His ashes were conveyed in a very rich chariot, drawn by four horses, to the seaside.

Alexander now intent upon his expedition into India, took notice that his soldiers were so
charged with booty that it hindered their marching.  Therefore, at break of day, as soon as
the baggage wagons were laden, first he set fire to his own, and to those of his friends, and
then commanded those to be burnt which belonged to the rest of the army.  An act which in the
deliberation of it had seemed more dangerous and difficult than it proved in the execution,
with which few were dissatisfied; for most of the soldiers, as if they had been inspired, uttering
loud outcries and warlike shoutings, supplied one another with what was absolutely necessary,
and burnt and destroyed all that was superfluous, the sight of which redoubled Alexander's
zeal and eagerness for his design.  And, indeed, he was now grown very severe and inexorable
in punishing those who committed any fault. For he put Menander, one of his friends, to death,
for deserting a fortress where he had placed him in garrison, and shot Orsodates, one of the
barbarians who revolted from him, with his own hand.

At this time a sheep happened to yean a lamb, with the perfect shape and color of a tiara upon
the head, and testicles on each side; which portent Alexander regarded with such dislike, that
he immediately caused his Babylonian priests, whom he usually carried about with him for such
purposes, to purify him, and told his friends he was not so much concerned for his own sake
as for theirs, out of an apprehension that after his death the divine power might suffer his
empire to fall into the hands of some degenerate, impotent person.  But this fear was soon
removed by a wonderful thing that happened not long after, and was thought to presage better.
For Proxenus, a Macedonian, who was the chief of those who looked to the king's furniture,
as he was breaking up the ground near the river Oxus, to set up the royal pavilion, discovered
a spring of a fat, oily liquor, which after the top was taken off, ran pure, clear oil, without
any difference either of taste or smell, having exactly the same smoothness and brightness,
and that, too, in a country where no olives grew.  The water, indeed, of the river Oxus, is
said to be the smoothest to the feeling of all waters, and to leave a gloss on the skins of
those who bathe themselves in it.  Whatever might be the cause, certain it is that Alexander
was wonderfully pleased with it, as appears by his letters to Antipater, where he speaks of
it as one of the most remarkable presages that God had ever favored him with.  The diviners
told him it signified his expedition would be glorious in the event, but very painful, and
attended with many difficulties; for oil, they said, was bestowed on mankind by God as a refreshment
of their labors.

Nor did they judge amiss, for he exposed himself to many hazards in the battles which he fought,
and received very severe wounds, but the greatest loss in his army was occasioned through the
unwholesomeness of the air, and the want of necessary provisions. But he still applied himself
to overcome fortune and whatever opposed him, by resolution and virtue, and thought nothing
impossible to true intrepidity, and on the other hand nothing secure or strong for cowardice.
It is told of him that when he besieged Sisimithres, who held an inaccessible, impregnable
rock against him, and his soldiers began to despair of taking it, he asked Oxyartes whether
Sisimithres was a man of courage, who assuring him he was the greatest coward alive, "Then
you tell me," said he, "that the place may easily be taken, since what is in command of it
is weak."  And in a little time he so terrified Sisimithres, that he took it without any difficulty.
At an attack which he made upon such another precipitous place with some of his Macedonian
soldiers, he called to one whose name was Alexander, and told him, he at any rate must fight
bravely, if it were but for his name's sake.  The youth fought gallantly and was killed in
the action, at which he was sensibly afflicted.  Another time, seeing his men march slowly
and unwillingly to the siege of the place called Nysa, because of a deep river between them
and the town, he advanced before them, and standing upon the bank, "What a miserable man,"
said he, "am I, that I have not learned to swim!" and then was hardly dissuaded from endeavoring
to pass it upon his shield.  Here, after the assault was over, the ambassadors who from several
towns which he had blocked up, came to submit to him and make their peace, were surprised to
find him still in his armor, without anyone in waiting or attendance upon him, and when at
last some one brought him a cushion, he made the eldest of them, named Acuphis, take it and
sit down upon it.  The old man, marveling at his magnanimity and courtesy, asked him what his
countrymen should do to merit his friendship.  "I would have them," said Alexander, "choose
you to govern them, and send one hundred of the most worthy men among them to remain with me
as hostages."  Acuphis laughed and answered, "I shall govern them with more ease, Sir, if I
send you so many of the worst, rather than the best of my subjects."

The extent of king Taxiles's dominions in India was thought to be as large as Egypt, abounding
in good pastures, and producing beautiful fruits.  The king himself had the reputation of a
wise man, and at his first interview with Alexander, he spoke to him in these terms:  "To what
purpose," said he, "should we make war upon one another, if the design of your coming into
these parts be not to rob us of our water or our necessary food, which are the only things
that wise men are indispensably obliged to fight for? As for other riches and possessions,
as they are accounted in the eye of the world, if I am better provided of them than you, I
am ready to let you share with me; but if fortune has been more liberal to you than me, I have
no objection to be obliged to you." This discourse pleased Alexander so much, that embracing
him, "Do you think," said he to him, "your kind words and courteous behavior will bring you
off in this interview without a contest? No, you shall not escape so.  I shall contend and
do battle with you so far, that how obliging soever you are, you shall not have the better
of me."  Then receiving some presents from him, he returned him others of greater value, and
to complete his bounty, gave him in money ready coined one thousand talents; at which his old
friends were much displeased, but it gained him the hearts of many of the barbarians.  But
the best soldiers of the Indians now entering into the pay of several of the cities, undertook
to defend them, and did it so bravely, that they put Alexander to a great deal of trouble,
till at last, after a capitulation, upon the surrender of the place, he fell upon them as they
were marching away, and put them all to the sword.  This one breach of his word remains as
a blemish upon his achievements in war, which he otherwise had performed throughout with that
justice and honor that became a king.  Nor was he less incommoded by the Indian philosophers,
who inveighed against those princes who joined his party, and solicited the free nations to
oppose him.  He took several of these also, and caused them to be hanged.

Alexander, in his own letters, has given us an account of his war with Porus.  He says the
two armies were separated by the river Hydaspes, on whose opposite bank Porus continually kept
his elephants in order of battle, with their heads towards their enemies, to guard the passage;
that he, on the other hand, made every day a great noise and clamor in his camp, to dissipate
the apprehensions of the barbarians; that one stormy dark night he passed the river, at a distance
from the place where the enemy lay, into a little island, with part of his foot, and the best
of his horse.  Here there fell a most violent storm of rain, accompanied with lightning and
whirlwinds, and seeing some of his men burnt and dying with the lightning, he nevertheless
quitted the island and made over to the other side.  The Hydaspes, he says, now after the storm,
was so swollen and grown so rapid, as to have made a breach in the bank, and a part of the
river was now pouring in here, so that when he came across, it was with difficulty he got a
footing on the land, which was slippery and unsteady, and exposed to the force of the currents
on both sides. This is the occasion when he is related to have said, "O ye Athenians, will
ye believe what dangers I incur to merit your praise?"  This, however, is Onesicritus's story.
Alexander says, here the men left their boats, and passed the breach in their armor, up to
the breast in water, and that then he advanced with his horse about twenty furlongs before
his foot, concluding that if the enemy charged him with their cavalry, he should be too strong
for them; if with their foot, his own would come up time enough to his assistance.  Nor did
he judge amiss; for being charged by a thousand horse, and sixty armed chariots, which advanced
before their main body, he took all the chariots, and killed four hundred horse upon the place.
Porus, by this time guessing that Alexander himself had crossed over, came on with his whole
army, except a party which he left behind, to hold the rest of the Macedonians in play, if
they should attempt to pass the river.  But he, apprehending the multitude of the enemy, and
to avoid the shock of their elephants, dividing his forces, attacked their left wing himself,
and commanded Coenus to fall upon the right, which was performed with good success.  For by
this means both wings being broken, the enemies fell back in their retreat upon the center,
and crowded in upon their elephants.  There rallying, they fought a hand to hand battle, and
it was the eighth hour of the day before they were entirely defeated.  This description the
conqueror himself has left us in his own epistles.

Almost all the historians agree in relating that Porus was four cubits and a span high, and
that when he was upon his elephant, which was of the largest size, his stature and bulk were
so answerable, that he appeared to be proportionably mounted, as a horseman on his horse. 
This elephant, during the whole battle, gave many singular proofs of sagacity and of particular
care of the king, whom as long as he was strong and in a condition to fight, he defended with
great courage, repelling those who set upon him; and as soon as he perceived him overpowered
with his numerous wounds and the multitude of darts that were thrown at him, to prevent his
falling off, he softly knelt down and began to draw out the darts with his proboscis.  When
Porus was taken prisoner; and Alexander asked him how he expected to be used, he answered,
"As a king."  For that expression, he said, when the same question was put to him a second
time, comprehended everything.  And Alexander, accordingly, not only suffered him to govern
his own kingdom as satrap under himself, but gave him also the additional territory of various
independent tribes whom he subdued, a district which, it is said, contained fifteen several
nations and five thousand considerable towns, besides abundance of villages.  To another government,
three times as large as this, he appointed Philip, one of his friends.

Some little time after the battle with Porus, Bucephalas died, as most of the authorities state,
under cure of his wounds, or as Onesicritus says, of fatigue and age, being thirty years old.
Alexander was no less concerned at his death, than if he had lost an old companion or an intimate
friend, and built a city, which he named Bucephalia, in memory of him, on the bank of the river
Hydaspes.  He also, we are told, built another city, and called it after the name of a favorite
dog, Peritas, which he had brought up himself.  So Sotion assures us he was informed by Potamon
of Lesbos.

But this last combat with Porus took off the edge of the Macedonians' courage, and stayed their
further progress into India.  For having found it hard enough to defeat an enemy who brought
but twenty thousand foot and two thousand horse into the field, they thought they had reason
to oppose Alexander's design of leading them on to pass the Ganges too, which they were told
was thirty-two furlongs broad and a hundred fathoms deep, and the banks on the further side
covered with multitudes of enemies.  For they were told that the kings of the Gandaritans and
Praesians expected them there with eighty thousand horse, two hundred thousand foot, eight
thousand armed chariots, and six thousand fighting elephants.  Nor was this a mere vain report,
spread to discourage them.  For Androcottus, who not long after reigned in those parts, made
a present of five hundred elephants at once to Seleucus, and with an army of six hundred thousand
men subdued all India.  Alexander at first was so grieved and enraged at his men's reluctancy,
that he shut himself up in his tent, and threw himself upon the ground, declaring, if they
would not pass the Ganges, he owed them no thanks for anything they had hitherto done, and
that to retreat now, was plainly to confess himself vanquished.  But at last the reasonable
persuasions of his friends and the cries and lamentations of his soldiers, who in a suppliant
manner crowded about the entrance of his tent, prevailed with him to think of returning.  Yet
he could not refrain from leaving behind him various deceptive memorials of his expedition,
to impose upon after-times, and to exaggerate his glory with posterity, such as arms larger
than were really worn, and mangers for horses, with bits of bridles above the usual size, which
he set up, and distributed in several places.  He erected altars, also, to the gods, which
the kings of the Praesians even in our time do honor to when they pass the river, and offer
sacrifice upon them after the Grecian manner.  Androcottus, then a boy, saw Alexander there,
and is said often afterwards to have been heard to say, that he missed but little of making
himself master of those countries; their king, who then reigned, was so hated and despised
for the viciousness of his life, and the meanness of his extraction.

Alexander was now eager to see the ocean.  To which purpose he caused a great many row-boats
and rafts to be built, in which he fell gently down the rivers at his leisure, yet so that
his navigation was neither unprofitable nor inactive.  For by several descents upon the banks,
he made himself master of the fortified towns, and consequently of the country on both sides.
But at a siege of a town of the Mallians, who have the repute of being the bravest people of
India, he ran in great danger of his life.  For having beaten off the defendants with showers
of arrows, he was the first man that mounted the wall by a scaling ladder, which, as soon as
he was up, broke and left him almost alone, exposed to the darts which the barbarians threw
at him in great numbers from below.  In this distress, turning himself as well as he could,
he leaped down in the midst of his enemies, and had the good fortune to light upon his feet.
The brightness and clattering of his armor when he came to the ground, made the barbarians
think they saw rays of light, or some bright phantom playing before his body, which frightened
them so at first, that they ran away and dispersed.  Till seeing him seconded but by two of
his guards, they fell upon him hand to hand, and some, while he bravely defended himself, tried
to wound him through his armor with their swords and spears.  And one who stood further off,
drew a bow with such just strength, that the arrow finding its way through his cuirass, stuck
in his ribs under the breast.  This stroke was so violent, that it made him give back, and
set one knee to the ground, upon which the man ran up with his drawn scimitar, thinking to
dispatch him, and had done it, if Peucestes and Limnaeus had not interposed, who were both
wounded, Limnaeus mortally, but Peucestes stood his ground, while Alexander killed the barbarian.
But this did not free him from danger; for besides many other wounds, at last he received so
weighty a stroke of a club upon his neck, that he was forced to lean his body against the wall,
still, however, facing the enemy.  At this extremity, the Macedonians made their way in and
gathered round him.  They took him up, just as he was fainting away, having lost all sense
of what was done near him, and conveyed him to his tent, upon which it was presently reported
all over the camp that he was dead.  But when they had with great difficulty and pains sawed
off the shaft of the arrow, which was of wood, and so with much trouble got off his cuirass,
they came to cut out the head of it, which was three fingers broad and four long, and stuck
fast in the bone.  During the operation, he was taken with almost mortal swoonings, but when
it was out he came to himself again.  Yet though all danger was past, he continued very weak,
and confined himself a great while to a regular diet and the method of his cure, till one day
hearing the Macedonians clamoring outside in their eagerness to see him, he took his cloak
and went out.  And having sacrificed to the gods, without more delay he went on board again,
and as he coasted along, subdued a great deal of the country on both sides, and several considerable
cities.

In this voyage, he took ten of the Indian philosophers prisoners, who had been most active
in persuading Sabbas to revolt, and had caused the Macedonians a great deal of trouble.  These
men, called Gymnosophists, were reputed to be extremely ready and succinct in their answers,
which he made trial of, by putting difficult questions to them, letting them know that those
whose answers were not pertinent, should be put to death, of which he made the eldest of them
judge.  The first being asked which he thought most numerous, the dead or the living, answered,
"The living, because those who are dead are not at all."  Of the second, he desired to know
whether the earth or the sea produced the largest beast; who told him, "The earth, for the
sea is but a part of it."  His question to the third was, Which is the cunningest of beasts?
"That," said he, "which men have not yet found out."  He bade the fourth tell him what argument
he used to Sabbas to persuade him to revolt.  "No other," said he, "than that he should either
live or die nobly."  Of the fifth he asked, Which was eldest, night or day?  The philosopher
replied, "Day was eldest, by one day at least."  But perceiving Alexander not well satisfied
with that account, he added, that he ought not to wonder if strange questions had as strange
answers made to them.  Then he went on and inquired of the next, what a man should do to be
exceedingly beloved.  "He must be very powerful," said he, "without making himself too much
feared."  The answer of the seventh to his question, how a man might become a god, was, "By
doing that which was impossible for men to do."  The eighth told him, "Life is stronger than
death, because it supports so many miseries."  And the last being asked, how long he thought
it decent for a man to live, said, "Till death appeared more desirable than life."  Then Alexander
turned to him whom he had made judge, and commanded him to give sentence.  "All that I can
determine," said he, "is, that they have every one answered worse than another."  "Nay," said
the king, "then you shall die first, for giving such a sentence." "Not so, O king," replied
the gymnosophist, "unless you said falsely that he should die first who made the worst answer."
In conclusion he gave them presents and dismissed them.

But to those who were in greatest reputation among them, and lived a private quiet life, he
sent Onesicritus, one of Diogenes the Cynic's disciples, desiring them to come to him.  Calanus,
it is said, very arrogantly and roughly commanded him to strip himself, and hear what he said,
naked, otherwise he would not speak a word to him, though he came from Jupiter himself.  But
Dandamis received him with more civility, and hearing him discourse of Socrates, Pythagoras,
and Diogenes, told him he thought them men of great parts, and to have erred in nothing so
much as in having too great respect for the laws and customs of their country.  Others say,
Dandamis only asked him the reason why Alexander undertook so long a journey to come into those
parts. Taxiles, however, persuaded Calanus to wait upon Alexander.  His proper name was Sphines,
but because he was wont to say Cale, which in the Indian tongue is a form of salutation, to
those he met with anywhere, the Greeks called him Calanus.  He is said to have shown Alexander
an instructive emblem of government, which was this.  He threw a dry shriveled hide upon the
ground, and trod upon the edges of it.  The skin when it was pressed in one place, still rose
up in another, wheresoever he trod round about it, till he set his foot in the middle, which
made all the parts lie even and quiet.  The meaning of this similitude being that he ought
to reside most in the middle of his empire, and not spend too much time on the borders of it.

His voyage down the rivers took up seven months' time, and when he came to the sea, he sailed
to an island which he himself called Scillustis, others Psiltucis, where going ashore, he sacrificed,
and made what observations he could as to the nature of the sea and the sea-coast.  For their
march was through an uncultivated country whose inhabitants fared hardly, possessing only a
few sheep, and those of a wretched kind, whose flesh was rank and unsavory, by their continual
feeding upon sea-fish.

After sixty days march he came into Gedrosia, where he found great plenty of all things, which
the neighboring kings and governors of provinces, hearing of his approach, had taken care to
provide. When he had here refreshed his army, he continued his march through Carmania, feasting
all the way for seven days together. He with his most intimate friends banqueted and reveled
night and day upon a platform erected on a lofty, conspicuous scaffold, which was slowly drawn
by eight horses.  This was followed by a great many chariots, some covered with purple and
embroidered canopies, and some with green boughs, which were continually supplied afresh, and
in them the rest of his friends and commanders drinking, and crowned with garlands of flowers.
Here was now no target or helmet or spear to be seen; instead of armor, the soldiers handled
nothing but cups and goblets and Thericlean drinking vessels, which, along the whole way, they
dipped into large bowls and jars, and drank healths to one another, some seating themselves
to it, others as they went along.  All places resounded with music of pipes and flutes, with
harping and singing, and women dancing as in the rites of Bacchus.  For this disorderly, wandering
march, besides the drinking part of it, was accompanied with all the sportiveness and insolence
of bacchanals, as much as if the god himself had been there to countenance and lead the procession.
As soon as he came to the royal palace of Gedrosia, he again refreshed and feasted his army;
and one day after he had drunk pretty hard, it is said, he went to see a prize of dancing contended
for, in which his favorite Bagoas, having gained the victory, crossed the theater in his dancing
habit, and sat down close by him, which so pleased the Macedonians, that they made loud acclamations
for him to kiss Bagoas, and never stopped clapping their hands and shouting till Alexander
put his arms round him and kissed him.

Here his admiral, Nearchus, came to him and delighted him so with the narrative of his voyage,
that he resolved himself to sail out of the mouth of Euphrates with a great fleet, with which
he designed to go round by Arabia and Africa, and so by Hercules's Pillars into the Mediterranean;
in order for which, he directed all sorts of vessels to be built at Thapsacus, and made great
provision everywhere of seamen and pilots.  But the tidings of the difficulties he had gone
through in his Indian expedition, the danger of his person among the Mallians, the reported
loss of a considerable part of his forces, and a general doubt as to his own safety, had begun
to give occasion for revolt among many of the conquered nations, and for acts of great injustice,
avarice, and insolence on the part of the satraps and commanders in the provinces, so that
there seemed to be an universal fluctuation and disposition to change.  Even at home, Olympias
and Cleopatra had raised a faction against Antipater, and divided his government between them,
Olympias seizing upon Epirus, and Cleopatra upon Macedonia.  When Alexander was told of it,
he said his mother had made the best choice, for the Macedonians would never endure to be ruled
by a woman.  Upon this he dispatched Nearchus again to his fleet, to carry the war into the
maritime provinces, and as he marched that way himself, he punished those commanders who had
behaved ill, particularly Oxyartes, one of the sons of Abuletes, whom he killed with his own
hand, thrusting him through the body with his spear.  And when Abuletes, instead of the necessary
provisions which he ought to have furnished, brought him three thousand talents in coined money,
he ordered it to be thrown to his horses, and when they would not touch it, "What good," he
said, "will this provision do us?" and sent him away to prison.

When he came into Persia, he distributed money among the women, as their own kings had been
wont to do, who as often as they came thither, gave every one of them a piece of gold; on account
of which custom, some of them, it is said, had come but seldom, and Ochus was so sordidly covetous,
that to avoid this expense, he never visited his native country once in all his reign.  Then
finding Cyrus's sepulchre opened and rifled, he put Polymachus, who did it, to death, though
he was a man of some distinction, a born Macedonian of Pella.  And after he had read the inscription,
he caused it to be cut again below the old one in Greek characters; the words being these:
"O man, whosoever thou art, and from whencesoever thou comest (for I know thou wilt come),
I am Cyrus, the founder of the Persian empire; do not grudge me this little earth which covers
my body."  The reading of this sensibly touched Alexander, filling him with the thought of
the uncertainty and mutability of human affairs.  At the same time, Calanus having been a little
while troubled with a disease in the bowels, requested that he might have a funeral pile erected,
to which he came on horseback, and after he had said some prayers and sprinkled himself and
cut off some of his hair to throw into the fire, before he ascended it, he embraced and took
leave of the Macedonians who stood by, desiring them to pass that day in mirth and good-fellowship
with their king, whom in a little time, he said, he doubted not but to see again at Babylon.
Having thus said, he lay down, and covering up his face, he stirred not when the fire came
near him, but continued still in the same posture as at first, and so sacrificed himself, as
it was the ancient custom of the philosophers in those countries to do.  The same thing was
done long after by another Indian, who came with Caesar to Athens, where they still show you
"the Indian's monument."  At his return from the funeral pile, Alexander invited a great many
of his friends and principal officers to supper, and proposed a drinking match, in which the
victor should receive a crown. Promachus drank twelve quarts of wine, and won the prize, which
was a talent, from them all; but he survived his victory but three days, and was followed,
as Chares says, by forty-one more, who died of the same debauch, some extremely cold weather
having set in shortly after.

At Susa, he married Darius's daughter Statira, and celebrated also the nuptials of his friends,
bestowing the noblest of the Persian ladies upon the worthiest of them, at the same time making
in an entertainment in honor of the other Macedonians whose marriages had already taken place.
At this magnificent festival, it is reported, there were no less than nine thousand guests,
to each of whom he gave a golden cup for the libations.  Not to mention other instances of
his wonderful magnificence, he paid the debts of his army, which amounted to nine thousand
eight hundred and seventy talents.  But Antigenes, who had lost one of his eyes, though he
owed nothing, got his name set down in the list of those who were in debt, and bringing one
who pretended to be his creditor, and to have supplied him from the bank, received the money.
But when the cheat was found out, the king was so incensed at it, that he banished him from
court, and took away his command, though he was an excellent soldier, and a man of great courage.
For when he was but a youth, and served under Philip at the siege of Perinthus, where he was
wounded in the eye by an arrow shot out of an engine, he would neither let the arrow be taken
out, nor be persuaded to quit the field, till he had bravely repulsed the enemy and forced
them to retire into the town.  Accordingly he was not able to support such a disgrace with
any patience, and it was plain that grief and despair would have made him kill himself, but
that the king fearing it, not only pardoned him, but let him also enjoy the benefit of his deceit.

The thirty thousand boys whom he left behind him to be taught and disciplined, were so improved
at his return, both in strength and beauty, and performed their exercises with such dexterity
and wonderful agility, that he was extremely pleased with them, which grieved the Macedonians,
and made them fear he would have the less value for them.  And when he proceeded to send down
the infirm and maimed soldiers to the sea, they said they were unjustly and infamously dealt
with, after they were worn out in his service upon all occasions, now to be turned away with
disgrace and sent home into their country among their friends and relations, in a worse condition
than when they came out; therefore they desired him to dismiss them one and all, and to account
his Macedonians useless, now he was so well furnished with a set of dancing boys, with whom,
if he pleased, he might go on and conquer the world. These speeches so incensed Alexander,
that after he had given them a great deal of reproachful language in his passion, he drove
them away, and committed the watch to Persians, out of whom he chose his guards and attendants.
When the Macedonians saw him escorted by these men, and themselves excluded and shamefully
disgraced, their high spirits fell, and conferring with one another, they found that jealousy
and rage had almost distracted them.  But at last coming to themselves again, they went without
their arms, with on]y their under garments on, crying and weeping, to offer themselves at his
tent, and desired him to deal with them as their baseness and ingratitude deserved.  However,
this would not prevail; for though his anger was already something mollified, yet he would
not admit them into his presence, nor would they stir from thence, but continued two days and
nights before his tent, bewailing themselves, and imploring him as their lord to have compassion
on them.  But the third day he came out to them, and seeing them very humble and penitent,
he wept himself a great while, and after a gentle reproof spoke kindly to them, and dismissed
those who were unserviceable with magnificent rewards, and with this recommendation to Antipater,
that when they came home, at all public shows and in the theaters, they should sit on the best
and foremost seats, crowned with chaplets of flowers.  He ordered, also, that the children
of those who had lost their lives in his service, should have their fathers' pay continued to them.

When he came to Ecbatana in Media, and had dispatched his most urgent affairs, he began to
divert himself again with spectacles and public entertainments, to carry on which he had a
supply of three thousand actors and artists, newly arrived out of Greece. But they were soon
interrupted by Hephaestion's falling sick of a fever, in which, being a young man and a soldier
too, he could not confine himself to so exact a diet as was necessary; for whilst his physician
Glaucus was gone to the theater, he ate a fowl for his dinner, and drank a large draught of
wine, upon which he became very ill, and shortly after died.  At this misfortune, Alexander
was so beyond all reason transported, that to express his sorrow, he immediately ordered the
manes and tails of all his horses and mules to be cut, and threw down the battlements of the
neighboring cities.  The poor physician he crucified, and forbade playing on the flute, or
any other musical instrument in the camp a great while, till directions came from the oracle
of Ammon, and enjoined him to honor Hephaestion, and sacrifice to him as to a hero.  Then seeking
to alleviate his grief in war, he set out, as it were, to a hunt and chase of men, for he fell
upon the Cossaeans, and put the whole nation to the sword.  This was called a sacrifice to
Hephaestion's ghost.  In his sepulchre and monument and the adorning of them, he intended to
bestow ten thousand talents; and designing that the excellence of the workmanship and the singularity
of the design might outdo the expense, his wishes turned, above all other artists, to Stasicrates,
because he always promised something very bold, unusual, and magnificent in his projects. 
Once when they had met before, he had told him, that of all the mountains he knew, that of
Athos in Thrace was the most capable of being adapted to represent the shape and lineaments
of a man; that if he pleased to command him, he would make it the noblest and most durable
statue in the world, which in its left hand should hold a city of ten thousand inhabitants,
and out of its right should pour a copious river into the sea.  Though Alexander declined this
proposal, yet now he spent a great deal of time with workmen to invent and contrive others
even more extravagant and sumptuous.

As he was upon his way to Babylon, Nearchus, who had sailed back out of the ocean up the mouth
of the river Euphrates, came to tell him he had met with some Chaldaean diviners, who had warned
him against Alexander's going thither.  Alexander, however, took no thought of it, and went
on, and when he came near the walls of the place, he saw a great many crows fighting with one
another, some of whom fell down just by him.  After this, being privately informed that Apollodorus,
the governor of Babylon, had sacrificed, to know what would become of him, he sent for Pythagoras,
the soothsayer, and on his admitting the thing, asked him, in what condition he found the victim;
and when he told him the liver was defective in its lobe, "A great presage indeed!" said Alexander.
However, he offered Pythagoras no injury, but was sorry that he had neglected Nearchus's advice,
and stayed for the most part outside the town, removing his tent from place to place, and sailing
up and down the Euphrates.  Besides this, he was disturbed by many other prodigies.  A tame
ass fell upon the biggest and handsomest lion that he kept, and killed him by a kick.  And
one day after he had undressed himself to be anointed, and was playing at ball, just as they
were going to bring his clothes again, the young men who played with him perceived a man clad
in the king's robes, with a diadem upon his head, sitting silently upon his throne.  They asked
him who he was, to which he gave no answer a good while, till at last coming to himself, he
told them his name was Dionysius, that he was of Messenia, that for some crime of which he
was accused, he was brought thither from the sea-side, and had been kept long in prison, that
Serapis appeared to him, had freed him from his chains, conducted him to that place, and commanded
him to put on the king's robe and diadem, and to sit where they found him, and to say nothing.
Alexander, when he heard this, by the direction of his soothsayers, put the fellow to death,
but he lost his spirits, and grew diffident of the protection and assistance of the gods, and
suspicious of his friends.  His greatest apprehension was of Antipater and his sons, one of
whom, Iolaus, was his chief cupbearer; and Cassander, who had lately arrived, and had been
bred up in Greek manners, the first time he saw some of the barbarians adore the king, could
not forbear laughing at it aloud, which so incensed Alexander, that he took him by the hair
with both hands, and dashed his head against the wall.  Another time, Cassander would have
said something in defense of Antipater to those who accused him, but Alexander interrupting
him said, "What is it you say?  Do you think people, if they had received no injury, would
come such a journey only to calumniate your father?" To which when Cassander replied, that
their coming so far from the evidence was a great proof of the falseness of their charges,
Alexander smiled, and said those were some of Aristotle's sophisms, which would serve equally
on both sides; and added, that both he and his father should be severely punished, if they
were found guilty of the least injustice towards those who complained. All which made such
a deep impression of terror in Cassander's mind, that long after when he was king of Macedonia,
and master of Greece, as he was walking up and down at Delphi, and looking at the statues,
at the sight of that of Alexander he was suddenly struck with alarm, and shook all over, his
eyes rolled, his head grew dizzy, and it was long before he recovered himself.

When once Alexander had given way to fears of supernatural influence, his mind grew so disturbed
and so easily alarmed, that if the least unusual or extraordinary thing happened, he thought
it a prodigy or a presage, and his court was thronged with diviners and priests whose business
was to sacrifice and purify and foretell the future.  So miserable a thing is incredulity and
contempt of divine power on the one hand, and so miserable, also, superstition on the other,
which like water, where the level has been lowered, flowing in and never stopping, fills the
mind with slavish fears and follies, as now in Alexander's case.  But upon some answers which
were brought him from the oracle concerning Hephaestion, he laid aside his sorrow, and fell
again to sacrificing and drinking; and having given Nearchus a splendid entertainment, after
he had bathed, as was his custom, just as he was going to bed, at Medius's request he went
to supper with him. Here he drank all the next day, and was attacked with a fever, which seized
him, not as some write, after he had drunk of the bowl of Hercules; nor was he taken with any
sudden pain in his back, as if he had been struck with lance, for these are the inventions
of some authors who thought it their duty to make the last scene of so great an action as tragical
and moving as they could.  Aristobulus tells us, that in the rage of his fever and a violent
thirst, he took a draught of wine, upon which he fell into delirium, and died on the thirtieth
day of the month Daesius.

But the journals give the following record.  On the eighteenth of the month, he slept in the
bathing-room on account of his fever. The next day he bathed and removed into his chamber,
and spent his time in playing dice with Medius.  In the evening he bathed and sacrificed, and
ate freely, and had the fever on him through the night.  On the twentieth, after the usual
sacrifices and bathing, he lay in the bathing-room and heard Nearchus's narrative of his voyage,
and the observations he had made in the great sea. The twenty-first he passed in the same manner,
his fever still increasing, and suffered much during the night.  The next day the fever was
very violent, and he had himself removed and his bed set by the great bath, and discoursed
with his principal officers about finding fit men to fill up the vacant places in the army.
On the twenty-fourth he was much worse, and was carried out of his bed to assist at the sacrifices,
and gave order that the general officers should wait within the court, whilst the inferior
officers kept watch without doors.  On the twenty-fifth he was removed to his palace on the
other side the river, where he slept a little, but his fever did not abate, and when the generals
came into his chamber, he was speechless, and continued so the following day.  The Macedonians,
therefore, supposing he was dead, came with great clamors to the gates, and menaced his friends
so that they were forced to admit them, and let them all pass through unarmed along by his
bedside.  The same day Python and Seleucus were dispatched to the temple of Serapis to inquire
if they should bring Alexander thither, and were answered by the god, that they should not
remove him.  On the twenty-eighth, in the evening, he died.  This account is most of it word
for word as it is written in the diary.

At the time, nobody had any suspicion of his being poisoned, but upon some information given
six years after, they say Olympias put many to death, and scattered the ashes of Iolaus, then
dead, as if he had given it him.  But those who affirm that Aristotle counseled Antipater to
do it, and that by his means the poison was brought, adduce one Hagnothemis as their authority,
who, they say, heard king Antigonus speak of it, and tell us that the poison was water, deadly
cold as ice, distilling from a rock in the district of Nonacris, which they gathered like a
thin dew, and kept in an ass's hoof; for it was so very cold and penetrating that no other
vessel would hold it.  However, most are of opinion that all this is a mere made-up story,
no slight evidence of which is, that during the dissensions among the commanders, which lasted
several days, the body continued clear and fresh, without any sign of such taint or corruption,
though it lay neglected in a close, sultry place.

Roxana, who was now with child, and upon that account much honored by the Macedonians, being
jealous of Statira, sent for her by a counterfeit letter, as if Alexander had been still alive;
and when she had her in her power, killed her and her sister, and threw their bodies into a
well, which they filled up with earth, not without the privity and assistance of Perdiccas,
who in the time immediately following the king's death, under cover of the name of Arrhidaeus,
whom he carried about him as a sort of guard to his person, exercised the chief authority Arrhidaeus,
who was Philip's son by an obscure woman of the name of Philinna, was himself of weak intellect,
not that he had been originally deficient either in body or mind; on the contrary, in his childhood,
he had showed a happy and promising character enough.  But a diseased habit of body, caused
by drugs which Olympias gave him, had ruined not only his health, but his understanding.

CAESAR

After Sylla became master of Rome, he wished to make Caesar put away his wife Cornelia, daughter
of Cinna, the late sole ruler of the commonwealth, but was unable to effect it either by promises
or intimidation, and so contented himself with confiscating her dowry.  The ground of Sylla's
hostility to Caesar, was the relationship between him and Marius; for Marius, the elder, married
Julia, the sister of Caesar's father, and had by her the younger Marius, who consequently was
Caesar's first cousin.  And though at the beginning, while so many were to be put to death
and there was so much to do, Caesar was overlooked by Sylla, yet he would not keep quiet, but
presented himself to the people as a candidate for the priesthood, though he was yet a mere
boy.  Sylla, without any open opposition, took measures to have him rejected, and in consultation
whether he should be put to death, when it was urged by some that it was not worth his while
to contrive the death of a boy, he answered, that they knew little who did not see more than
one Marius in that boy. Caesar, on being informed of this saying, concealed himself, and for
a considerable time kept out of the way in the country of the Sabines, often changing his quarters,
till one night, as he was removing from one house to another on account of his health, he fell
into the hands of Sylla's soldiers, who were searching those parts in order to apprehend any
who had absconded. Caesar, by a bribe of two talents, prevailed with Cornelius, their captain,
to let him go, and was no sooner dismissed but he put to sea, and made for Bithynia.  After
a short stay there with Nicomedes, the king, in his passage back he was taken near the island
Pharmacusa by some of the pirates, who, at that time, with large fleets of ships and innumerable
smaller vessels infested the seas everywhere.

When these men at first demanded of him twenty talents for his ransom, he laughed at them for
not understanding the value of their prisoner, and voluntarily engaged to give them fifty.
He presently dispatched those about him to several places to raise the money, till at last
he was left among a set of the most bloodthirsty people in the world, the Cilicians, only with
one friend and two attendants.  Yet he made so little of them, that when he had a mind to sleep,
he would send to them, and order them to make no noise.  For thirty-eight days, with all the
freedom in the world, he amused himself with joining in their exercises and games, as if they
had not been his keepers, but his guards.  He wrote verses and speeches, and made them his
auditors, and those who did not admire them, he called to their faces illiterate and barbarous,
and would often, in raillery, threaten to hang them.  They were greatly taken with this, and
attributed his free talking to a kind of simplicity and boyish playfulness.  As soon as his
ransom was come from Miletus, he paid it, and was discharged, and proceeded at once to man
some ships at the port of Miletus, and went in pursuit of the pirates, whom he surprised with
their ships still stationed at the island, and took most of them.  Their money he made his
prize, and the men he secured in prison at Pergamus, and made application to Junius, who was
then governor of Asia, to whose office it belonged, as praetor, to determine their punishment.
Junius, having his eye upon the money, for the sum was considerable, said he would think at
his leisure what to do with the prisoners, upon which Caesar took his leave of him, and went
off to Pergamus, where he ordered the pirates to be brought forth and crucified; the punishment
he had often threatened them with whilst he was in their hands, and they little dreamed he
was in earnest.

In the meantime Sylla's power being now on the decline, Caesar's friends advised him to return
to Rome, but he went to Rhodes, and entered himself in the school of Apollonius, Molon's son,
a famous rhetorician, one who had the reputation of a worthy man, and had Cicero for one of
his scholars.  Caesar is said to have been admirably fitted by nature to make a great statesman
and orator, and to have taken such pains to improve his genius this way, that without dispute
he might challenge the second place. More he did not aim at, as choosing to be first rather
amongst men of arms and power, and, therefore, never rose to that height of eloquence to which
nature would have carried him, his attention being diverted to those expeditions and designs,
which at length gained him the empire.  And he himself, in his answer to Cicero's panegyric
on Cato, desires his reader not to compare the plain discourse of a soldier with the harangues
of an orator who had not only fine parts, but had employed his life in this study.

When he was returned to Rome, he accused Dolabella of maladministration, and many cities of
Greece came in to attest it.  Dolabella was acquitted, and Caesar, in return for the support
he had received from the Greeks, assisted them in their prosecution of Publius Antonius for
corrupt practices, before Marcus Lucullus, praetor of Macedonia.  In this cause he so far succeeded,
that Antonius was forced to appeal to the tribunes at Rome, alleging that in Greece he could
not have fair play against Grecians.  In his pleadings at Rome, his eloquence soon obtained
him great credit and favor, and he won no less upon the affections of the people by the affability
of his manners and address, in which he slowed a tact and consideration beyond what could have
been expected at his age; and the open house he kept, the entertainments he gave, and the general
splendor of his manner of life contributed little by little to create and increase his political
influence.  His enemies slighted the growth of it at first, presuming it would soon fail when
his money was gone; whilst in the meantime it was growing up and flourishing among the common
people.  When his power at last was established and not to be overthrown, and now openly tended
to the altering of the whole constitution, they were aware too late, that there is no beginning
so mean, which continued application will not make considerable, and that despising a danger
at first, will make it at last irresistible.  Cicero was the first who had any suspicions of
his designs upon the government, and, as a good pilot is apprehensive of a storm when the sea
is most smiling, saw the designing temper of the man through this disguise of good-humor and
affability, and said, that in general, in all he did and undertook, he detected the ambition
for absolute power, "but when I see his hair so carefully arranged, and observe him adjusting
it with one finger, I cannot imagine it should enter into such a man's thoughts to subvert
the Roman state."  But of this more hereafter.

The first proof he had of the people's good-will to him, was when he received by their suffrages
a tribuneship in the army, and came out on the list with a higher place than Caius Popilius.
A second and clearer instance of their favor appeared upon his making a magnificent oration
in praise of his aunt Julia, wife to Marius, publicly in the forum, at whose funeral he was
so bold as to bring forth the images of Marius, which nobody had dared to produce since the
government came into Sylla's hands, Marius's party having from that time been declared enemies
of the State.  When some who were present had begun to raise a cry against Caesar, the people
answered with loud shouts and clapping in his favor, expressing their joyful surprise and satisfaction
at his having, as it were, brought up again from the grave those honors of Marius, which for
so long a time had been lost to the city.  It had always been the custom at Rome to make funeral
orations in praise of elderly matrons, but there was no precedent of any upon young women till
Caesar first made one upon the death of his own wife.  This also procured him favor, and by
this show of affection he won upon the feelings of the people, who looked upon him as a man
of great tenderness and kindness of heart.  After he had buried his wife, he went as quaestor
into Spain under one of the praetors, named Vetus, whom he honored ever after, and made his
son his own quaestor, when he himself came to be praetor.  After this employment was ended,
he married Pompeia, his third wife, having then a daughter by Cornelia, his first wife, whom
he afterwards married to Pompey the Great.  He was so profuse in his expenses, that before
he had any public employment, he was in debt thirteen hundred talents, and many thought that
by incurring such expense to be popular, he changed a solid good for what would prove but short
and uncertain return; but in truth he was purchasing what was of the greatest value at an inconsiderable
rate.  When he was made surveyor of the Appian Way, he disbursed, besides the public money,
a great sum out of his private purse; and when he was aedile, be provided such a number of
gladiators, that he entertained the people with three hundred and twenty single combats, and
by his great liberality and magnificence in theatrical shows, in processions, and public feastings,
he threw into the shade all the attempts that had been made before him, and gained so much
upon the people, that everyone was eager to find out new offices and new honors for him in
return for his munificence.

There being two factions in the city, one that of Sylla, which was very powerful, the other
that of Marius, which was then broken and in a very low condition, he undertook to revive this
and to make it his own.  And to this end, whilst he was in the height of his repute with the
people for the magnificent shows he gave as aedile, he ordered images of Marius, and figures
of Victory, with trophies in their hands, to be carried privately in the night and placed in
the capitol.  Next morning, when some saw them bright with gold and beautifully made, with
inscriptions upon them, referring them to Marius's exploits over the Cimbrians, they were surprised
at the boldness of him who had set them up, nor was it difficult to guess who it was.  The
fame of this soon spread and brought together a great concourse of people.  Some cried out
that it was an open attempt against the established government thus to revive those honors
which had been buried by the laws and decrees of the senate; that Caesar had done it to sound
the temper of the people whom he had prepared before, and to try whether they were tame enough
to bear his humor, and would quietly give way to his innovations. On the other hand, Marius's
party took courage, and it was incredible how numerous they were suddenly seen to be, and what
a multitude of them appeared and came shouting into the capitol. Many, when they saw Marius's
likeness, cried for joy, and Caesar was highly extolled as the one man, in the place of all
others, who was a relation worthy of Marius.  Upon this the senate met, and Catulus Lutatius,
one of the most eminent Romans of that time, stood up and inveighed against Caesar, closing
his speech with the remarkable saying, that Caesar was now not working mines, but planting
batteries to overthrow the state.  But when Caesar had made an apology for himself, and satisfied
the senate, his admirers were very much animated, and advised him not to depart from his own
thoughts for anyone, since with the people's good favor he would erelong get the better of
them all, and be the first man in the commonwealth.

At this time, Metellus, the High-Priest, died, and Catulus and Isauricus, persons of the highest
reputation, and who had great influence in the senate, were competitors for the office; yet
Caesar would not give way to them, but presented himself to the people as a candidate against
them.  The several parties seeming very equal, Catulus, who, because he had the most honor
to lose, was the most apprehensive of the event, sent to Caesar to buy him off, with offers
of a great sum of money.  But his answer was, that he was ready to borrow a larger sum than
that, to carry on the contest.  Upon the day of election, as his mother conducted him out of
doors with tears, after embracing her, "My mother," he said, "today you will see me either
High-Priest, or an exile."  When the votes were taken, after a great struggle, he carried it,
and excited among the senate and nobility great alarm lest he might now urge on the people
to every kind of insolence.  And Piso and Catulus found fault with Cicero for having let Caesar
escape, when in the conspiracy of Catiline he had given the government such advantage against
him.  For Catiline, who had designed not only to change the present state of affairs, but to
subvert the whole empire and confound all, had himself taken to flight, while the evidence
was yet incomplete against him, before his ultimate purposes had been properly discovered.
But he had left Lentulus and Cethegus in the city to supply his place in the conspiracy, and
whether they received any secret encouragement and assistance from Caesar is uncertain; all
that is certain, is, that they were fully convicted in the senate, and when Cicero, the consul,
asked the several opinions of the senators, how they would have them punished, all who spoke
before Caesar sentenced them to death; but Caesar stood up and made a set speech, in which
he told them, that he thought it without precedent and not just to take away the lives of persons
of their birth and distinction before they were fairly tried, unless there was an absolute
necessity for it; but that if they were kept confined in any towns of Italy Cicero himself
should choose, till Catiline was defeated, then the senate might in peace and at their leisure
determine what was best to be done.

This sentence of his carried so much appearance of humanity, and he gave it such advantage
by the eloquence with which he urged it, that not only those who spoke after him closed with
it, but even they who had before given a contrary opinion, now came over to his, till it came
about to Catulus's and Cato's turn to speak.  They warmly opposed it, and Cato intimated in
his speech the suspicion of Caesar himself, and pressed the matter so strongly, that the criminals
were given up to suffer execution. As Caesar was going out of the senate, many of the young
men who at that time acted as guards to Cicero, ran in with their naked swords to assault him.
But Curio, it is said, threw his gown over him, and conveyed him away, and Cicero himself,
when the young men looked up to see his wishes, gave a sign not to kill him, either for fear
of the people, or because he thought the murder unjust and illegal.  If this be true, I wonder
how Cicero came to omit all mention of it in his book about his consulship. He was blamed,
however, afterwards, for not having made use of so fortunate an opportunity against Caesar,
as if he had let it escape him out of fear of the populace, who, indeed, showed remarkable
solicitude about Caesar, and some time after, when he went into the senate to clear himself
of the suspicions he lay under, and found great clamors raised against him, upon the senate
in consequence sitting longer than ordinary, they went up to the house in a tumult, and beset
it, demanding Caesar, and requiring them to dismiss him.  Upon this, Cato, much fearing some
movement among the poor citizens, who were always the first to kindle the flame among the people,
and placed all their hopes in Caesar, persuaded the senate to give them a monthly allowance
of corn, an expedient which put the commonwealth to the extraordinary charge of seven million
five hundred thousand drachmas in the year, but quite succeeded in removing the great cause
of terror for the present, and very much weakened Caesar's power, who at that time was just
going to be made praetor, and consequently would have been more formidable by his office.

But there was no disturbance during his praetorship, only what misfortune he met with in his
own domestic affairs.  Publius Clodius was a patrician by descent, eminent both for his riches
and eloquence, but in licentiousness of life and audacity exceeded the most noted profligates
of the day.  He was in love with Pompeia, Caesar's wife, and she had no aversion to him. But
there was strict watch kept on her apartment, and Caesar's mother, Aurelia, who was a discreet
woman, being continually about her, made any interview very dangerous and difficult.  The Romans
have a goddess whom they call Bona, the same whom the Greeks call Gynaecea.  The Phrygians,
who claim a peculiar title to her, say she was mother to Midas.  The Romans profess she was
one of the Dryads, and married to Faunus.  The Grecians affirm that she is that mother of Bacchus
whose name is not to be uttered, and, for this reason, the women who celebrate her festival,
cover the tents with vine-branches, and, in accordance with the fable, a consecrated serpent
is placed by the goddess. It is not lawful for a man to be by, nor so much as in the house,
whilst the rites are celebrated, but the women by themselves perform the sacred offices, which
are said to be much the same with those used in the solemnities of Orpheus. When the festival
comes, the husband, who is either consul or praetor; and with him every male creature, quits
the house.  The wife then taking it under her care, sets it in order, and the principal ceremonies
are performed during the night, the women playing together amongst themselves as they keep
watch, and music of various kinds going on.

As Pompeia was at that time celebrating this feast, Clodius, who as yet had no beard, and so
thought to pass undiscovered, took upon him the dress and ornaments of a singing woman, and
so came thither, having the air of a young girl.  Finding the doors open, he was without any
stop introduced by the maid, who was in the intrigue.  She presently ran to tell Pompeia, but
as she was away a long time, he grew uneasy in waiting for her, and left his post and traversed
the house from one room to another, still taking care to avoid the lights, till at last Aurelia's
woman met him, and invited him to play with her, as the women did among themselves.  He refused
to comply, and she presently pulled him forward, and asked him who he was, and whence he came.
Clodius told her he was waiting for Pompeia's own maid, Abra, being in fact her own name also,
and as he said so, betrayed himself by his voice.  Upon which the woman shrieking, ran into
the company where there were lights, and cried out, she had discovered a man.  The women were
all in a fright.  Aurelia covered up the sacred things and stopped the proceedings, and having
ordered the doors to be shut, went about with lights to find Clodius, who was got into the
maid's room that he had come in with, and was seized there.  The women knew him, and drove
him out of doors, and at once, that same night, went home and told their husbands the story.
In the morning, it was all about the town, what an impious attempt Clodius had made, and how
he ought to be punished as an offender, not only against those whom he had affronted, but also
against the public and the gods. Upon which one of the tribunes impeached him for profaning
the holy rites, and some of the principal senators combined together and gave evidence against
him, that besides many other horrible crimes, he had been guilty of incest with his own sister,
who was married to Lucullus.  But the people set themselves against this combination of the
nobility, and defended Clodius, which was of great service to him with the judges, who took
alarm and were afraid to provoke the multitude.  Caesar at once dismissed Pompeia, but being
summoned as a witness against Clodius, said he had nothing to charge him with.  This looking
like a paradox, the accuser asked him why he parted with his wife.  Caesar replied, "I wished
my wife to be not so much as suspected." Some say that Caesar spoke this as his real thought;
others, that he did it to gratify the people, who were very earnest to save Clodius.  Clodius,
at any rate, escaped; most of the judges giving their opinions so written as to be illegible,
that they might not be in danger from the people by condemning him, nor in disgrace with the
nobility by acquitting him.

Caesar, in the meantime, being out of his praetorship, had got the province of Spain, but was
in great embarrassment with his creditors, who, as he was going off, came upon him, and were
very pressing and importunate.  This led him to apply himself to Crassus, who was the richest
man in Rome, but wanted Caesar's youthful vigor and heat to sustain the opposition against
Pompey.  Crassus took upon him to satisfy those creditors who were most uneasy to him, and
would not be put off any longer, and engaged himself to the amount of eight hundred and thirty
talents, upon which Caesar was now at liberty to go to his province.  In his journey, as he
was crossing the Alps, and passing by a small village of the barbarians with but few inhabitants
and those wretchedly poor, his companions asked the question among themselves by way of mockery,
if there were any canvassing for offices there; any contention which should be uppermost, or
feuds of great men one against another.  To which Caesar made answer seriously, "For my part,
I had rather be the first man among these fellows, than the second man in Rome."  It is said
that another time, when free from business in Spain, after reading some part of the history
of Alexander, he sat a great while very thoughtful, and at last burst out into tears. His friends
were surprised, and asked him the reason of it.  "Do you think," said he, "I have not just
cause to weep, when I consider that Alexander at my age had conquered so many nations, and
I have all this time done nothing that is memorable?"  As soon as he came into Spain he was
very active, and in a few days had got together ten new cohorts of foot in addition to the
twenty which were there before.  With these he marched against the Calaici and Lusitani and
conquered them, and advancing as far as the ocean, subdued the tribes which never before had
been subject to the Romans.  Having managed his military affairs with good success, he was
equally happy in the course of his civil government.  He took pains to establish a good understanding
amongst the several states, and no less care to heal the differences between debtors and creditors.
He ordered that the creditor should receive two parts of the debtor's yearly income, and that
the other part should be managed by the debtor himself, till by this method the whole debt
was at last discharged.  This conduct made him leave his province with a fair reputation; being
rich himself, and having enriched his soldiers, and having received from them the honorable
name of Imperator.

There is a law among the Romans, that whoever desires the honor of a triumph must stay without
the city and expect his answer. And another, that those who stand for the consulship shall
appear personally upon the place.  Caesar was come home at the very time of choosing consuls,
and being in a difficulty between these two opposite laws, sent to the senate to desire that
since he was obliged to be absent, he might sue for the consulship by his friends.  Cato, being
backed by the law, at first opposed his request; afterwards perceiving that Caesar had prevailed
with a great part of the senate to comply with it, he made it his business to gain time, and
went on wasting the whole day in speaking.  Upon which Caesar thought fit to let the triumph
fall, and pursued the consulship.  Entering the town and coming forward immediately, he had
recourse to a piece of state-policy by which everybody was deceived but Cato.  This was the
reconciling of Crassus and Pompey, the two men who then were most powerful in Rome.  There
had been a quarrel between them, which he now succeeded in making up, and by this means strengthened
himself by the united power of both, and so under the cover of an action which carried all
the appearance of a piece of kindness and good-nature, caused what was in effect a revolution
in the government.  For it was not the quarrel between Pompey and Caesar, as most men imagine,
which was the origin of the civil wars, but their union, their conspiring together at first
to subvert the aristocracy, and so quarreling afterwards between themselves.  Cato, who often
foretold what the consequence of this alliance would be, had then the character of a sullen,
interfering man, but in the end the reputation of a wise but unsuccessful counselor.

Thus Caesar being doubly supported by the interests of Crassus and Pompey, was promoted to
the consulship, and triumphantly proclaimed with Calpurnius Bibulus.  When he entered on his
office, he brought in bills which would have been preferred with better grace by the most audacious
of the tribunes than by a consul, in which he proposed the plantation of colonies and division
of lands, simply to please the commonalty.  The best and most honorable of the senators opposed
it, upon which, as he had long wished for nothing more than for such a colorable pretext, he
loudly protested how much against his will it was to be driven to seek support from the people,
and how the senate's insulting and harsh conduct left no other course possible for him, than
to devote himself henceforth to the popular cause and interest.  And so he hurried out of the
senate, and presenting himself to the people, and there placing Crassus and Pompey, one on
each side of him, he asked them whether they consented to the bills he had proposed.  They
owned their assent, upon which he desired them to assist him against those who had threatened
to oppose him with their swords.  They engaged they would, and Pompey added further, that he
would meet their swords with a sword and buckler too.  These words the nobles much resented,
as neither suitable to his own dignity, nor becoming the reverence due to the senate, but resembling
rather the vehemence of a boy, or the fury of a madman.  But the people were pleased with it.
In order to get a yet firmer hold upon Pompey, Caesar having a daughter, Julia, who had been
before contracted to Servilius Caepio, now betrothed her to Pompey, and told Servilius he should
have Pompey's daughter, who was not unengaged either, but promised to Sylla's son, Faustus.
A little time after, Caesar married Calpurnia, the daughter of Piso, and got Piso made consul
for the year following.  Cato exclaimed loudly against this, and protested with a great deal
of warmth, that it was intolerable the government should be prostituted by marriages, and that
they should advance one another to the commands of armies, provinces, and other great posts,
by means of women. Bibulus, Caesar's colleague, finding it was to no purpose to oppose his
bills, but that he was in danger of being murdered in the forum, as also was Cato, confined
himself to his house, and there let the remaining part of his consulship expire.  Pompey, when
he was married, at once filled the forum with soldiers, and gave the people his help in passing
the new laws, and secured Caesar the government of all Gaul, both on this and the other side
of the Alps, together with Illyricum, and the command of four legions for five years.  Cato
made some attempts against these proceedings, but was seized and led off on the way to prison
by Caesar, who expected he would appeal to the tribunes. But when he saw that Cato went along
without speaking a word, and not only the nobility were indignant, but that the people, also,
out of respect for Cato's virtue, were following in silence, and with dejected looks, he himself
privately desired one of the tribunes to rescue Cato.  As for the other senators, some few
of them attended the house, the rest being disgusted, absented themselves.  Hence Considius,
a very old man, took occasion one day to tell Caesar, that the senators did not meet because
they were afraid of his soldiers.  Caesar asked, "Why don't you then, out of the same fear,
keep at home?"  To which Considius replied, that age was his guard against fear, and that the
small remains of his life were not worth much caution.  But the most disgraceful thing that
was done in Caesar's consulship, was his assisting to gain the tribuneship for the same Clodius
who had made the attempt upon his wife's chastity, and intruded upon the secret vigils.  He
was elected on purpose to effect Cicero's downfall; nor did Caesar leave the city to join his
army, till they two had overpowered Cicero, and driven him out of Italy.

Thus far have we followed Caesar's actions before the wars of Gaul.  After this, he seems to
begin his course afresh, and to enter upon a new life and scene of action.  And the period
of those wars which he now fought, and those many expeditions in which he subdued Gaul, showed
him to be a soldier and general not in the least inferior to any of the greatest and most admired
commanders who had ever appeared at the head of armies. For if we compare him with the Fabii,
the Metelli, the Scipios, and with those who were his contemporaries, or not long before him,
Sylla, Marius, the two Luculli, or even Pompey himself, whose glory, it may be said, went up
at that time to heaven for every excellence in war, we shall find Caesar's actions to have
surpassed them all.  One he may be held to have outdone in consideration of the difficulty
of the country in which he fought, another in the extent of territory which he conquered; some,
in the number and strength of the enemies whom he defeated; one man, because of the wildness
and perfidiousness of the tribes whose good-will he conciliated, another in his humanity and
clemency to those he overpowered; others, again in his gifts and kindnesses to his soldiers;
all alike in the number of the battles which he fought and the enemies whom he killed.  For
he had not pursued the wars in Gaul full ten years, when he had taken by storm above eight
hundred towns, subdued three hundred states, and of the three millions of men, who made up
the gross sum of those with whom at several times he engaged, he had killed one million, and
taken captive a second.

He was so much master of the good-will and hearty service of his soldiers, that those who in
other expeditions were but ordinary men, displayed a courage past defeating or withstanding
when they went upon any danger where Caesar's glory was concerned. Such a one was Acilius,
who, in the sea-fight before Marseilles, had his right hand struck off with a sword, yet did
not quit his buckler out of his left, but struck the enemies in the face with it, till he drove
them off, and made himself master of the vessel.  Such another was Cassius Scaeva, who, in
a battle near Dyrrhachium, had one of his eyes shot out with an arrow, his shoulder pierced
with one javelin, and his thigh with another; and having received one hundred and thirty darts
upon his target, called to the enemy, as though he would surrender himself.  But when two of
them came up to him, he cut off the shoulder of one with a sword, and by a blow over the face
forced the other to retire, and so with the assistance of his friends, who now came up, made
his escape.  Again, in Britain, when some of the foremost officers had accidentally got into
a morass full of water, and there were assaulted by the enemy, a common soldier, whilst Caesar
stood and looked on, threw himself into the midst of them, and after many signal demonstrations
of his valor, rescued the officers, and beat off the barbarians.  He himself, in the end, took
to the water, and with much difficulty, partly by swimming, partly by wading, passed it, but
in the passage lost his shield.  Caesar and his officers saw it and admired, and went to meet
him with joy and acclamation.  But the soldier, much dejected and in tears, threw himself down
at Caesar's feet, and begged his pardon for having let go his buckler.  Another time in Africa,
Scipio having taken a ship of Caesar's in which Granius Petro, lately appointed quaestor, was
sailing, gave the other passengers as free prize to his soldiers, but thought fit to offer
the quaestor his life.  But he said it was not usual for Caesar's soldiers to take, but give
mercy, and having said so, fell upon his sword and killed himself.

This love of honor and passion for distinction were inspired into them and cherished in them
by Caesar himself, who, by his unsparing distribution of money and honors, showed them that
he did not heap up wealth from the wars for his own luxury, or the gratifying his private pleasures,
but that all he received was but a public fund laid by for the reward and encouragement of
valor, and that he looked upon all he gave to deserving soldiers as so much increase to his
own riches.  Added to this, also, there was no danger to which he did not willingly expose
himself, no labor from which he pleaded all exemption.  His contempt of danger was not so much
wondered at by his soldiers, because they knew how much he coveted honor.  But his enduring
so much hardship, which he did to all appearance beyond his natural strength, very much astonished
them.  For he was a spare man, had a soft and white skin, was distempered in the head, and
subject to an epilepsy, which, it is said, first seized him at Corduba.  But he did not make
the weakness of his constitution a pretext for his ease, but rather used war as the best physic
against his indispositions; whilst by indefatigable journeys, coarse diet, frequent lodging
in the field, and continual laborious exercise, he struggled with his diseases, and fortified
his body against all attacks.  He slept generally in his chariots or litters, employing even
his rest in pursuit of action.  In the day he was thus carried to the forts, garrisons, and
camps, one servant sitting with him, who used to write down what he dictated as he went, and
a soldier attending behind with his sword drawn.  He drove so rapidly, that when he first left
Rome, he arrived at the river Rhone within eight days.  He had been an expert rider from his
childhood; for it was usual with him to sit with his hands joined together behind his back,
and so to put his horse to its full speed.  And in this war he disciplined himself so far as
to be able to dictate letters from on horseback, and to give directions to two who took notes
at the same time, or, as Oppius says, to more.  And it is thought that he was the first who
contrived means for communicating with friends by cipher, when either press of business, or
the large extent of the city, left him no time for a personal conference about matters that
required dispatch.  How little nice he was in his diet, may be seen in the following instance.
When at the table of Valerius Leo, who entertained him at supper at Milan, a dish of asparagus
was put before him, on which his host instead of oil had poured sweet ointment.  Caesar partook
of it without any disgust, and reprimanded his friends for finding fault with it.  "For it
was enough," said he, "not to eat what you did not like; but he who reflects on another man's
want of breeding, shows he wants it as much himself."  Another time upon the road he was driven
by a storm into a poor man's cottage, where he found but one room, and that such as would afford
but a mean reception to a single person, and therefore told his companions, places of honor
should be given up to the greater men, and necessary accommodations to the weaker, and accordingly
ordered that Oppius, who was in bad health, should lodge within, whilst he and the rest slept
under a shed at the door.

His first war in Gaul was against the Helvetians and Tigurini, who having burnt their own towns,
twelve in number, and four hundred villages, would have marched forward through that part of
Gaul which was included in the Roman province, as the Cimbrians and Teutons formerly had done.
Nor were they inferior to these in courage; and in numbers they were equal, being in all three
hundred thousand, of which one hundred and ninety thousand were fighting men.  Caesar did not
engage the Tigurini in person, but Labienus, under his directions, routed them near the river
Arar.  The Helvetians surprised Caesar, and unexpectedly set upon him as he was conducting
his army to a confederate town.  He succeeded, however, in making his retreat into a strong
position, where, when he had mustered and marshalled his men, his horse was brought to him;
upon which he said, "When I have won the battle, I will use my horse for the chase, but at
present let us go against the enemy,"  and accordingly charged them on foot.  After a long
and severe combat, he drove the main army out of the field, but found the hardest work at their
carriages and ramparts, where not only the men stood and fought, but the women also and children
defended themselves, till they were cut to pieces; insomuch that the fight was scarcely ended
till midnight.  This action, glorious in itself, Caesar crowned with another yet more noble,
by gathering in a body all the barbarians that had escaped out of the battle, above one hundred
thousand in number, and obliging them to reoccupy the country which they had deserted, and
the cities which they had burnt.  This he did for fear the Germans should pass in and possess
themselves of the land whilst it lay uninhabited.

His second war was in defense of the Gauls against the Germans, though some time before he
had made Ariovistus, their king, recognized at Rome as an ally.  But they were very insufferable
neighbors to those under his government; and it was probable, when occasion offered, they would
renounce the present arrangements, and march on to occupy Gaul.  But finding his officers timorous,
and especially those of the young nobility who came along with him in hopes of turning their
campaigns with him into a means for their own pleasure or profit, he called them together,
and advised them to march off, and not run the hazard of a battle against their inclinations,
since they had such weak and unmanly feelings; telling them that he would take only the tenth
legion, and march against the barbarians, whom he did not expect to find an enemy more formidable
than the Cimbri, nor, he added, should they find him a general inferior to Marius.  Upon this,
the tenth legion deputed some of their body to pay him their acknowledgments and thanks, and
the other legions blamed their officers, and all, with great vigor and zeal, followed him many
days' journey, till they encamped within two hundred furlongs of the enemy.  Ariovistus's courage
to some extent was cooled upon their very approach; for never expecting the Romans would attack
the Germans, whom he had thought it more likely they would not venture to withstand even in
defense of their own subjects, he was the more surprised at Caesar's conduct, and saw his army
to be in consternation.  They were still more discouraged by the prophecies of their holy women,
who foretell the future by observing the eddies of rivers, and taking signs from the windings
and noise of streams, and who now warned them not to engage before the next new moon appeared.
Caesar having had intimation of this, and seeing the Germans lie still, thought it expedient
to attack them whilst they were under these apprehensions, rather than sit still and wait their
time.  Accordingly he made his approaches to the strong-holds and hills on which they lay encamped,
and so galled and fretted them, that at last they came down with great fury to engage. But
he gained a signal victory, and pursued them for four hundred furlongs, as far as the Rhine;
all which space was covered with spoils and bodies of the slain.  Ariovistus made shift to
pass the Rhine with the small remains of an army, for it is said the number of the slain amounted
to eighty thousand.

After this action, Caesar left his army at their winter-quarters in the country of the Sequani,
and in order to attend to affairs at Rome, went into that part of Gaul which lies on the Po,
and was part of his province; for the river Rubicon divides Gaul, which is on this side the
Alps, from the rest of Italy.  There he sat down and employed himself in courting people's
favor; great numbers coming to him continually, and always finding their requests answered;
for he never failed to dismiss all with present pledges of his kindness in hand, and further
hopes for the future.  And during all this time of the war in Gaul, Pompey never observed how
Caesar was on the one hand using the arms of Rome to effect his conquests, and on the other
was gaining over and securing to himself the favor of the Romans, with the wealth which those
conquests obtained him.  But when he heard that the Belgae, who were the most powerful of all
the Gauls, and inhabited a third part of the country, were revolted, and had got together a
great many thousand men in arms, he immediately set out and took his way thither with great
expedition, and falling upon the enemy as they were ravaging the Gauls, his allies, he soon
defeated and put to flight the largest and least scattered division of them.  For though their
numbers were great, yet they made but a slender defense, and the marshes and deep rivers were
made passable to the Roman foot by the vast quantity of dead bodies.  Of those who revolted,
all the tribes that lived near the ocean came over without fighting, and he, therefore, led
his army against the Nervii, the fiercest and most warlike people of all in those parts.  These
live in a country covered with continuous woods, and having lodged their children and property
out of the way in the depth of the forest, fell upon Caesar with a body of sixty thousand men,
before he was prepared for them, while he was making his encampment.  They soon routed his
cavalry, and having surrounded the twelfth and seventh legions, killed all the officers, and
had not Caesar himself snatched up a buckler, and forced his way through his own men to come
up to the barbarians, or had not the tenth legion, when they saw him in danger, run in from
the tops of the hills, where they lay, and broken through the enemy's ranks to rescue him,
in all probability not a Roman would have been saved.  But now, under the influence of Caesar's
bold example, they fought a battle, as the phrase is, of more than human courage, and yet with
their utmost efforts they were not able to drive the enemy out of the field, but cut them down
fighting in their defense.  For out of sixty thousand men, it is stated that not above five
hundred survived the battle, and of four hundred of their senators not above three.

When the Roman senate had received news of this, they voted sacrifices and festivals to the
gods, to be strictly observed for the space of fifteen days, a longer space than ever was observed
for any victory before.  The danger to which they had been exposed by the joint outbreak of
such a number of nations was felt to have been great; and the people's fondness for Caesar
gave additional luster to successes achieved by him.  He now, after settling everything in
Gaul, came back again, and spent the winter by the Po, in order to carry on the designs he
had in hand at Rome.  All who were candidates for offices used his assistance, and were supplied
with money from him to corrupt the people and buy their votes, in return of which, when they
were chosen, they did all things to advance his power.  But what was more considerable, the
most eminent and powerful men in Rome in great numbers came to visit him at Lucca, Pompey,
and Crassus, and Appius, the governor of Sardinia, and Nepos, the proconsul of Spain, so that
there were in the place at one time one hundred and twenty lictors, and more than two hundred
senators.  In deliberation here held, it was determined that Pompey and Crassus should be consuls
again for the following year; that Caesar should have a fresh supply of money, and that his
command should be renewed to him for five years more.  It seemed very extravagant to all thinking
men, that those very persons who had received so much money from Caesar should persuade the
senate to grant him more, as if he were in want. Though in truth it was not so much upon persuasion
as compulsion, that, with sorrow and groans for their own acts, they passed the measure.  Cato
was not present, for they had sent him seasonably out of the way into Cyprus; but Favonius,
who was a zealous imitator of Cato, when he found he could do no good by opposing it, broke
out of the house, and loudly declaimed against these proceedings to the people, but none gave
him any hearing; some slighting him out of respect to Crassus and Pompey, and the greater part
to gratify Caesar, on whom depended their hopes.

After this, Caesar returned again to his forces in Gaul, where he found that country involved
in a dangerous war, two strong nations of the Germans having lately passed the Rhine, to conquer
it; one of them called the Usipes, the other the Tenteritae. Of the war with this people, Caesar
himself has given this account in his commentaries, that the barbarians, having sent ambassadors
to treat with him, did, during the treaty, set upon him in his march, by which means with eight
hundred men they routed five thousand of his horse, who did not suspect their coming; that
afterwards they sent other ambassadors to renew the same fraudulent practices, whom he kept
in custody, and led on his army against the barbarians, as judging it mere simplicity to keep
faith with those who had so faithlessly broken the terms they had agreed to.  But Tanusius
states, that when the senate decreed festivals and sacrifices for this victory, Cato declared
it to be his opinion that Caesar ought to be given into the hands of the barbarians, that so
the guilt which this breach of faith might otherwise bring upon the state, might be expiated
by transferring the curse on him, who was the occasion of it.  Of those who passed the Rhine,
there were four hundred thousand cut off; those few who escaped were sheltered by the Sugambri,
a people of Germany.  Caesar took hold of this pretense to invade the Germans, being at the
same time ambitious of the honor of being the first man that should pass the Rhine with an
army.  He carried a bridge across it, though it was very wide, and the current at that particular
point very full, strong, and violent, bringing down with its waters trunks of trees, and other
lumber, which much shook and weakened the foundations of his bridge.  But he drove great piles
of wood into the bottom of the river above the passage, to catch and stop these as they floated
down, and thus fixing his bridle upon the stream, successfully finished this bridge, which
no one who saw could believe to be the work but of ten days.

In the passage of his army over it, he met with no opposition; the Suevi themselves, who are
the most warlike people of all Germany, flying with their effects into the deepest and most
densely wooded valleys.  When he had burnt all the enemy's country, and encouraged those who
embraced the Roman interest, he went back into Gaul, after eighteen days' stay in Germany.
But his expedition into Britain was the most famous testimony of his courage.  For he was the
first who brought a navy into the western ocean, or who sailed into the Atlantic with an army
to make war; and by invading an island, the reported extent of which had made its existence
a matter of controversy among historians, many of whom questioned whether it were not a mere
name and fiction, not a real place, he might be said to have carried the Roman empire beyond
the limits of the known world. He passed thither twice from that part of Gaul which lies over
against it, and in several battles which he fought, did more hurt to the enemy than service
to himself, for the islanders were so miserably poor, that they had nothing worth being plundered
of.  When he found himself unable to put such an end to the war as he wished, he was content
to take hostages from the king, and to impose a tribute, and then quitted the island. At his
arrival in Gaul, he found letters which lay ready to be conveyed over the water to him from
his friends at Rome, announcing his daughter's death, who died in labor of a child by Pompey.
Caesar and Pompey both were much afflicted with her death, nor were their friends less disturbed,
believing that the alliance was now broken, which had hitherto kept the sickly commonwealth
in peace, for the child also died within a few days after the mother.  The people took the
body of Julia, in spite of the opposition of the tribunes, and carried it into the field of
Mars, and there her funeral rites were performed, and her remains are laid.

Caesar's army was now grown very numerous, so that he was forced to disperse them into various
camps for their winter-quarters, and he having gone himself to Italy as he used to do, in his
absence a general outbreak throughout the whole of Gaul commenced, and large armies marched
about the country, and attacked the Roman quarters, and attempted to make themselves masters
of the forts where they lay.  The greatest and strongest party of the rebels, under the command
of Abriorix, cut off Costa and Titurius with all their men, while a force sixty thousand strong
besieged the legion under the command of Cicero, and had almost taken it by storm, the Roman
soldiers being all wounded, and having quite spent themselves by a defense beyond their natural
strength.  But Caesar, who was at a great distance, having received the news, quickly got together
seven thousand men, and hastened to relieve Cicero.  The besiegers were aware of it, and went
to meet him, with great confidence that they should easily overpower such an handful of men.
Caesar, to increase their presumption, seemed to avoid fighting, and still marched off, till
he found a place conveniently situated for a few to engage against many, where he encamped.
He kept his soldiers from making any attack upon the enemy, and commanded them to raise the
ramparts higher, and barricade the gates, that by show of fear, they might heighten the enemy's
contempt of them.  Till at last they came without any order in great security to make an assault,
when he issued forth, and put them to flight with the loss of many men.

This quieted the greater part of the commotions in these parts of Gaul, and Caesar, in the
course of the winter, visited every part of the country, and with great vigilance took precautions
against all innovations.  For there were three legions now come to him to supply the place
of the men he had lost, of which Pompey furnished him with two, out of those under his command;
the other was newly raised in the part of Gaul by the Po.  But in a while the seeds of war,
which had long since been secretly sown and scattered by the most powerful men in those warlike
nations, broke forth into the greatest and most dangerous war that ever was in those parts,
both as regards the number of men in the vigor of their youth who were gathered and armed from
all quarters, the vast funds of money collected to maintain it, the strength of the towns,
and the difficulty of the country where it was carried on.  It being winter, the rivers were
frozen, the woods covered with snow, and the level country flooded, so that in some places
the ways were lost through the depth of the snow; in others, the overflowing of marshes and
streams made every kind of passage uncertain.  All which difficulties made it seem impracticable
for Caesar to make any attempt upon the insurgents.  Many tribes had revolted together, the
chief of them being the Arverni and Carnutini ; the general who had the supreme command in
war was Vergentorix, whose father the Gauls had put to death on suspicion of his aiming at
absolute government.

He having disposed his army in several bodies, and set officers over them, drew over to him
all the country round about as far as those that lie upon the Arar, and having intelligence
of the opposition which Caesar now experienced at Rome, thought to engage all Gaul in the war.
Which if he had done a little later, when Caesar was taken up with the civil wars, Italy had
been put into as great a terror as before it was by the Cimbri. But Caesar, who above all men
was gifted with the faculty of making the right use of everything in war, and most especially
of seizing the right moment, as soon as he heard of the revolt, returned immediately the same
way he went, and showed the barbarians, by the quickness of his march in such a severe season,
that an army was advancing against them which was invincible.  For in the time that one would
have thought it scarce credible that a courier or express should have come with a message from
him, he himself appeared with all his army, ravaging the country, reducing their posts, subduing
their towns, receiving into his protection those who declared for him. Till at last the Edui,
who hitherto had styled themselves brethren to the Romans, and had been much honored by them,
declared against him, and joined the rebels, to the great discouragement of his army.  Accordingly
he removed thence, and passed the country of the Lingones, desiring to reach the territories
of the Sequani, who were his friends, and who lay like a bulwark in front of Italy against
the other tribes of Gaul.  There the enemy came upon him, and surrounded him with many myriads,
whom he also was eager to engage; and at last, after some time and with much slaughter, gained
on the whole a complete victory; though at first he appears to have met with some reverse,
and the Aruveni show you a small sword hanging up in a temple, which they say was taken from
Caesar.  Caesar saw this afterwards himself, and smiled, and when his friends advised it should
be taken down, would not permit it, because he looked upon it as consecrated.

After the defeat a great part of those who had escaped, fled with their king into a town called
Alesia, which Caesar besieged, though the height of the walls, and number of those who defended
them, made it appear impregnable; and meantime, from without the walls, he was assailed by
a greater danger than can be expressed.  For the choice men of Gaul, picked out of each nation,
and well armed, came to relieve Alesia, to the number of three hundred thousand; nor were there
in the town less than one hundred and seventy thousand.  So that Caesar being shut up betwixt
two such forces, was compelled to protect himself by two walls, one towards the town, the other
against the relieving army, as knowing it these forces should join, his affairs would be entirely
ruined.  The danger that he underwent before Alesia, justly gained him great honor on many
accounts, and gave him an opportunity of showing greater instances of his valor and conduct
than any other contest had done.  One wonders much how he should be able to engage and defeat
so many thousands of men without the town, and not be perceived by those within, but yet more,
that the Romans themselves, who guarded their wall which was next the town, should be strangers
to it. For even they knew nothing of the victory, till they heard the cries of the men and
lamentations of the women who were in the town, and had from thence seen the Romans at a distance
carrying into their camp a great quantity of bucklers, adorned with gold and silver, many breastplates
stained with blood, besides cups and tents made in the Gallic fashion.  So soon did so vast
an army dissolve and vanish like a ghost or dream, the greatest part of them being killed upon
the spot.  Those who were in Alesia, having given themselves and Caesar much trouble, surrendered
at last; and Vergentorix, who was the chief spring of all the war, putting his best armor on,
and adorning his horse, rode out of the gates, and made a turn about Caesar as he was sitting,
then quitted his horse, threw off his armor, and remained seated quietly at Caesar's feet until
he was led away to be reserved for the triumph.

Caesar had long ago resolved upon the overthrow of Pompey, as had Pompey, for that matter,
upon his.  For Crassus, the fear of whom had hitherto kept them in peace, having now been killed
in Parthia, if the one of them wished to make himself the greatest man in Rome, he had only
to overthrow the other; and if he again wished to prevent his own fall, he had nothing for
it but to be beforehand with him whom he feared.  Pompey had not been long under any such apprehensions,
having till lately despised Caesar, as thinking it no difficult matter to put down him whom
he himself had advanced.  But Caesar had entertained this design from the beginning against
his rivals, and had retired, like an expert wrestler, to prepare himself apart for the combat.
Making the Gallic wars his exercise-ground, he had at once improved the strength of his soldiery,
and had heightened his own glory by his great actions, so that he was looked on as one who
might challenge comparison with Pompey.  Nor did he let go any of those advantages which were
now given him both by Pompey himself and the times, and the ill government of Rome, where all
who were candidates for offices publicly gave money, and without any shame bribed the people,
who having received their pay, did not contend for their benefactors with their bare suffrages,
but with bows, swords, and slings.  So that after having many times stained the place of election
with the blood of men killed upon the spot, they left the city at last without a government
at all, to be carried about like a ship without a pilot to steer her; while all who had any
wisdom could only be thankful if a course of such wild and stormy disorder and madness might
end no worse than in a monarchy.  Some were so bold as to declare openly, that the government
was incurable but by a monarchy, and that they ought to take that remedy from the hands of
the gentlest physician, meaning Pompey, who, though in words he pretended to decline it, yet
in reality made his utmost efforts to be declared dictator.  Cato perceiving his design, prevailed
with the senate to make him sole consul, that with the offer of a more legal sort of monarchy
he might be withheld from demanding the dictatorship.  They over and above voted him the continuance
of his provinces, for he had two, Spain and all Africa, which he governed by his lieutenants,
and maintained armies under him, at the yearly charge of a thousand talents out of the public
treasury.

Upon this Caesar also sent and petitioned for the consulship, and the continuance of his provinces.
Pompey at first did not stir in it, but Marcellus and Lentulus opposed it, who had always hated
Caesar, and now did every thing, whether fit or unfit, which might disgrace and affront him.
For they took away the privilege of Roman citizens from the people of New Comum, who were a
colony that Caesar had lately planted in Gaul; and Marcellus, who was then consul, ordered
one of the senators of that town, then at Rome, to be whipped, and told him he laid that mark
upon him to signify he was no citizen of Rome, bidding him, when he went back again, to show
it to Caesar.  After Marcellus's consulship, Caesar began to lavish gifts upon all the public
men out of the riches he had taken from the Gauls; discharged Curio, the tribune, from his
great debts; gave Paulus, then consul, fifteen hundred talents, with which he built the noble
court of justice adjoining the forum, to supply the place of that called the Fulvian.  Pompey,
alarmed at these preparations, now openly took steps, both by himself and his friends, to have
a successor appointed in Caesar's room, and sent to demand back the soldiers whom he had lent
him to carry on the wars in Gaul.  Caesar returned them, and made each soldier a present of
two hundred and fifty drachmas.  The officer who brought them home to Pompey, spread amongst
the people no very fair or favorable report of Caesar, and flattered Pompey himself with false
suggestions that he was wished for by Caesar's army; and though his affairs here were in some
embarrassment through the envy of some, and the ill state of the government, yet there the
army was at his command, and if they once crossed into Italy, would presently declare for him;
so weary were they of Caesar's endless expeditions, and so suspicious of his designs for a
monarchy.  Upon this Pompey grew presumptuous, and neglected all warlike preparations, as fearing
no danger, and used no other means against him than mere speeches and votes, for which Caesar
cared nothing.  And one of his captains, it is said, who was sent by him to Rome, standing
before the senate-house one day, and being told that the senate would not give Caesar a longer
time in his government, clapped his hand on the hilt of his sword, and said, "But this shall."

Yet the demands which Caesar made had the fairest colors of equity imaginable.  For he proposed
to lay down his arms, and that Pompey should do the same, and both together should become private
men, and each expect a reward of his services from the public.  For that those who proposed
to disarm him, and at the same time to confirm Pompey in all the power he held, were simply
establishing the one in the tyranny which they accused the other of aiming at.  When Curio
made these proposals to the people in Caesar's name, he was loudly applauded, and some threw
garlands towards him, and dismissed him as they do successful wrestlers, crowned with flowers.
Antony, being tribune, produced a letter sent from Caesar on this occasion, and read it, though
the consuls did what they could to oppose it.  But Scipio, Pompey's father-in-law, proposed
in the senate, that if Caesar did not lay down his arms within such a time, he should be voted
an enemy; and the consuls putting it to the question, whether Pompey should dismiss his soldiers,
and again, whether Caesar should disband his, very few assented to the first, but almost all
to the latter.  But Antony proposing again, that both should lay down their commissions, all
but a very few agreed to it.  Scipio was upon this very violent, and Lentulus the consul cried
aloud, that they had need of arms, and not of suffrages, against a robber; so that the senators
for the present adjourned, and appeared in mourning as a mark of their grief for the dissension.

Afterwards there came other letters from Caesar, which seemed yet more moderate, for he proposed
to quit everything else, and only to retain Gaul within the Alps, Illyricum, and two legions,
till he should stand a second time for consul.  Cicero, the orator, who was lately returned
from Cilicia, endeavored to reconcile differences, and softened Pompey, who was willing to
comply in other things, but not to allow him the soldiers.  At last Cicero used his persuasions
with Caesar's friends to accept of the provinces, and six thousand soldiers only, and so to
make up the quarrel.  And Pompey was inclined to give way to this, but Lentulus, the consul,
would not hearken to it, but drove Antony and Curio out of the senate-house with insults, by
which he afforded Caesar the most plausible pretense that could be, and one which he could
readily use to inflame the soldiers, by showing them two persons of such repute and authority,
who were forced to escape in a hired carriage in the dress of slaves. For so they were glad
to disguise themselves, when they fled out of Rome.

There were not about him at that time above three hundred horse, and five thousand foot; for
the rest of his army, which was left behind the Alps, was to be brought after him by officers
who had received orders for that purpose.  But he thought the first motion towards the design
which he had on foot did not require large forces at present, and that what was wanted was
to make this first step suddenly, and so as to astound his enemies with the boldness of it;
as it would be easier, he thought, to throw them into consternation by doing what they never
anticipated, than fairly to conquer them, if he had alarmed them by his preparations.  And
therefore, he commanded his captains and other officers to go only with their swords in their
hands, without any other arms, and make themselves masters of Ariminum, a large city of Gaul,
with as little disturbance and bloodshed as possible.  He committed the care of these forces
to Hortensius, and himself spent the day in public as a stander-by and spectator of the gladiators,
who exercised before him.  A little before night he attended to his person, and then went into
the hall, and conversed for some time with those he had invited to supper, till it began to
grow dusk, when he rose from table, and made his excuses to the company, begging them to stay
till he came back, having already given private directions to a few immediate friends, that
they should follow him, not all the same way, but some one way, some another.  He himself got
into one of the hired carriages, and drove at first another way, but presently turned towards
Ariminum.  When he came to the river Rubicon, which parts Gaul within the Alps from the rest
of Italy, his thoughts began to work, now he was just entering upon the danger, and he wavered
much in his mind, when he considered the greatness of the enterprise into which he was throwing
himself.  He checked his course, and ordered a halt, while he revolved with himself, and often
changed his opinion one way and the other, without speaking a word.  This was when his purposes
fluctuated most; presently he also discussed the matter with his friends who were about him,
(of which number Asinius Pollio was one,) computing how many calamities his passing that river
would bring upon mankind, and what a relation of it would be transmitted to posterity.  At
last, in a sort of passion, casting aside calculation, and abandoning himself to what might
come, and using the proverb frequently in their mouths who enter upon dangerous and bold attempts,
"The die is cast," with these words he took the river.  Once over, he used all expedition possible,
and before it was day reached Ariminum, and took it. It is said that the night before he passed
the river, he had an impious dream, that he was unnaturally familiar with his own mother.

As soon as Ariminum was taken, wide gates, so to say, were thrown open, to let in war upon
every land alike and sea, and with the limits of the province, the boundaries of the laws were
transgressed.  Nor would one have thought that, as at other times, the mere men and women fled
from one town of Italy to another in their consternation, but that the very towns themselves
left their sites, and fled for succor to each other. The city of Rome was overrun as it were
with a deluge, by the conflux of people flying in from all the neighboring places. Magistrates
could no longer govern, nor the eloquence of any orator quiet it; it was all but suffering
shipwreck by the violence of its own tempestuous agitation.  The most vehement contrary passions
and impulses were at work everywhere.  Nor did those who rejoiced at the prospect of the change
altogether conceal their feelings, but when they met, as in so great a city they frequently
must, with the alarmed and dejected of the other party, they provoked quarrels by their bold
expressions of confidence in the event.  Pompey, sufficiently disturbed of himself; was yet
more perplexed by the clamors of others; some telling him that he justly suffered for having
armed Caesar against himself and the government; others blaming him for permitting Caesar to
be insolently used by Lentulus, when he made such ample concessions, and offered such reasonable
proposals towards an accommodation.  Favonius bade him now stamp upon the ground; for once
talking big in the senate, he desired them not to trouble themselves about making any preparations
for the war, for that he himself, with one stamp of his foot, would fill all Italy with soldiers.
Yet still Pompey at that time had more forces than Caesar; but he was not permitted to pursue
his own thoughts, but being continually disturbed with false reports and alarms, as if the
enemy was close upon him and carrying all before him, he gave way, and let himself be borne
down by the general cry.  He put forth an edict declaring the city to be in a state of anarchy,
and left it with orders that the senate should follow him, and that no one should stay behind
who did not prefer tyranny to their country and liberty.

The consuls at once fled, without making even the usual sacrifices; so did most of the senators,
carrying off their own goods in as much haste as if they had been robbing their neighbors.
Some, who had formerly much favored Caesar's cause, in the prevailing alarm, quitted their
own sentiments, and without any prospect of good to themselves, were carried along by the common
stream.  It was a melancholy thing to see the city tossed in these tumults, like a ship given
up by her pilots, and left to run, as chance guides her, upon any rock in her way. Yet, in
spite of their sad condition, people still esteemed the place of their exile to be their country
for Pompey's sake, and fled from Rome, as if it had been Caesar's camp.  Labienus even, who
had been one of Caesar's nearest friends, and his lieutenant, and who had fought by him zealously
in the Gallic wars, now deserted him, and went over to Pompey.  Caesar sent all his money and
equipage after him, and then sat down before Corfinium, which was garrisoned with thirty cohorts
under the command of Domitius.  He, in despair of maintaining the defense, requested a physician,
whom he had among his attendants, to give him poison; and taking the dose, drank it, in hopes
of being dispatched by it.  But soon after, when he was told that Caesar showed the utmost
clemency towards those he took prisoners, he lamented his misfortune, and blamed the hastiness
of his resolution.  His physician consoled him, by informing him that he had taken a sleeping
draught, not a poison; upon which, much rejoiced, and rising from his bed, he went presently
to Caesar, and gave him the pledge of his hand, yet afterwards again went over to Pompey. 
The report of these actions at Rome, quieted those who were there, and some who had fled thence
returned.

Caesar took into his army Domitius's soldiers, as he did all those whom he found in any town
enlisted for Pompey's service. Being now strong and formidable enough, he advanced against
Pompey himself, who did not stay to receive him, but fled to Brundisium, having sent the consuls
before with a body of troops to Dyrrhachium.  Soon after, upon Caesar's approach, he set to
sea, as shall be more particularly related in his Life.  Caesar would have immediately pursued
him, but wanted shipping, and therefore went back to Rome, having made himself master of all
Italy without bloodshed in the space of sixty days.  When he came thither, he found the city
more quiet than he expected, and many senators present, to whom he addressed himself with courtesy
and deference, desiring them to send to Pompey about any reasonable accommodations towards
a peace.  But nobody complied with this proposal; whether out of fear of Pompey, whom they
had deserted, or that they thought Caesar did not mean what he said, but thought it his interest
to talk plausibly. Afterwards, when Metellus, the tribune, would have hindered him from taking
money out of the public treasure, and adduced some laws against it, Caesar replied, that arms
and laws had each their own time; "If what I do displeases you, leave the place; war allows
no free talking.  When I have laid down my arms, and made peace, come back and make what speeches
you please.  And this," he added, "I tell you in diminution of my own just right, as indeed
you and all others who have appeared against me and are now in my power, may be treated as
I please."  Having said this to Metellus, he went to the doors of the treasury, and the keys
being not to be found, sent for smiths to force them open. Metellus again making resistance,
and some encouraging him in it, Caesar, in a louder tone, told him he would put him to death,
if he gave him any further disturbance.  "And this," said he, "you know, young man, is more
disagreeable for me to say, than to do."  These words made Metellus withdraw for fear, and
obtained speedy execution henceforth for all orders that Caesar gave for procuring necessaries
for the war.

He was now proceeding to Spain, with the determination of first crushing Afranius and Varro,
Pompey's lieutenants, and making himself master of the armies and provinces under them, that
he might then more securely advance against Pompey, when he had no enemy left behind him. 
In this expedition his person was often in danger from ambuscades, and his army by want of
provisions, yet he did not desist from pursuing the enemy, provoking them to fight, and hemming
them with his fortifications, till by main force he made himself master of their camps and
their forces. Only the generals got off, and fled to Pompey.

When Caesar came back to Rome, Piso, his father-in-law, advised him to send men to Pompey,
to treat of a peace; but Isauricus, to ingratiate himself with Caesar, spoke against it.  After
this, being created dictator by the senate, he called home the exiles, and gave back then rights
as citizens to the children of those who had suffered under Sylla; he relieved the debtors
by an act remitting some part of the interest on their debts, and passed some other measures
of the same sort, but not many.  For within eleven days he resigned his dictatorship, and having
declared himself consul, with Servilius Isauricus, hastened again to the war.  He marched so
fast, that he left all his army behind him, except six hundred chosen horse, and five legions,
with which he put to sea in the very middle of winter, about the beginning of the month January,
(which corresponds pretty nearly with the Athenian month Posideon,) and having past the Ionian
Sea, took Oricum and Apollonia, and then sent back the ships to Brundisium, to bring over the
soldiers who were left behind in the march.  They, while yet on the march, their bodies now
no longer in the full vigor of youth, and they themselves weary with such a multitude of wars,
could not but exclaim against Caesar, "When at last, and where, will this Caesar let us be
quiet?  He carries us from place to place, and uses us as if we were not to be worn out, and
had no sense of labor.  Even our iron itself is spent by blows, and we ought to have some pity
on our bucklers and breastplates, which have been used so long.  Our wounds, if nothing else,
should make him see that we are mortal men, whom he commands, subject to the same pains and
sufferings as other human beings.  The very gods themselves cannot force the winter season,
or hinder the storms in their time; yet he pushes forward, as if he were not pursuing, but
flying from an enemy."  So they talked as they marched leisurely towards Brundisium.  But when
they came thither, and found Caesar gone off before them, their feelings changed, and they
blamed themselves as traitors to their general.  They now railed at their officers for marching
so slowly, and placing themselves on the heights overlooking the sea towards Epirus, they kept
watch to see if they could espy the vessels which were to transport them to Caesar.

He in the meantime was posted in Apollonia, but had not an army with him able to fight the
enemy, the forces from Brundisium being so long in coming, which put him to great suspense
and embarrassment what to do.  At last he resolved upon a most hazardous experiment, and embarked,
without anyone's knowledge, in a boat of twelve oars, to cross over to Brundisium, though the
sea was at that time covered with a vast fleet of the enemies.  He got on board in the night
time, in the dress of a slave, and throwing himself down like a person of no consequence, lay
along at the bottom of the vessel.  The river Anius was to carry them down to sea, and there
used to blow a gentle gale every morning from the land, which made it calm at the mouth of
the river, by driving the waves forward; but this night there had blown a strong wind from
the sea, which overpowered that from the land, so that where the river met the influx of the
sea-water and the opposition of the waves, it was extremely rough and angry; and the current
was beaten back with such a violent swell, that the master of the boat could not make good
his passage, but ordered his sailors to tack about and return.  Caesar, upon this, discovers
himself, and taking the man by the hand, who was surprised to see him there, said, "Go on,
my friend, and fear nothing; you carry Caesar and his fortune in your boat."  The mariners,
when they heard that, forgot the storm, and laying all their strength to their oars, did what
they could to force their way down the river.  But when it was to no purpose, and the vessel
now took in much water, Caesar finding himself in such danger in the very mouth of the river,
much against his will permitted the master to turn back. When he was come to land, his soldiers
ran to him in a multitude, reproaching him for what he had done, and indignant that he should
think himself not strong enough to get a victory by their sole assistance, but must disturb
himself, and expose his life for those who were absent, as if he could not trust those who
were with him.

After this, Antony came over with the forces from Brundisium, which encouraged Caesar to give
Pompey battle, though he was encamped very advantageously, and furnished with plenty of provisions
both by sea and land, whilst he himself was at the beginning but ill-supplied, and before the
end was extremely pinched for want of necessaries, so that his soldiers were forced to dig
up a kind of root which grew there, and tempering it with milk, to feed on it.  Sometimes they
made a kind of bread of it, and advancing up to the enemy's outposts, would throw in these
loaves, telling them, that as long as the earth produced such roots they would not give up
blockading Pompey. But Pompey took what care he could, that neither the loaves nor the words
should reach his men, who were out of heart and despondent, through terror at the fierceness
and hardiness of their enemies, whom they looked upon as a sort of wild beasts. There were
continual skirmishes about Pompey's outworks, in all which Caesar had the better, except one,
when his men were forced to fly in such a manner that he had like to have lost his camp.  For
Pompey made such a vigorous sally on them that not a man stood his ground; the trenches were
filled with the slaughter, many fell upon their own ramparts and bulwarks, whither they were
driven in flight by the enemy.  Caesar met them, and would have turned them back, but could
not.  When he went to lay hold of the ensigns, those who carried them threw them down, so that
the enemies took thirty-two of them.  He himself narrowly escaped; for taking hold of one of
his soldiers, a big and strong man, that was flying by him, he bade him stand and face about;
but the fellow, full of apprehensions from the danger he was in, laid hold of his sword, as
if he would strike Caesar, but Caesar's armor-bearer cut off his arm. Caesar's affairs were
so desperate at that time, that when Pompey, either through over-cautiousness, or his ill fortune,
did not give the finishing stroke to that great success, but retreated after he had driven
the routed enemy within their camp, Caesar, upon seeing his withdrawal, said to his friends,
"The victory to-day had been on the enemies' side, if they had had a general who knew how to
gain it."  When he was retired into his tent, he laid himself down to sleep, but spent that
night as miserably as ever he did any, in perplexity and consideration with himself, coming
to the conclusion that he had conducted the war amiss.  For when he had a fertile country before
him, and all the wealthy cities of Macedonia and Thessaly, he had neglected to carry the war
thither, and had sat down by the seaside, where his enemies had such a powerful fleet, so that
he was in fact rather besieged by the want of necessaries, than besieging others with his arms.
Being thus distracted in his thoughts with the view of the difficulty and distress he was in,
he raised his camp, with the intention of advancing towards Scipio, who lay in Macedonia; hoping
either to entice Pompey into a country where he should fight without the advantage he now had
of supplies from the sea, or to overpower Scipio, if not assisted.

This set all Pompey's army and officers on fire to hasten and pursue Caesar, whom they concluded
to be beaten and flying.  But Pompey was afraid to hazard a battle on which so much depended,
and being himself provided with all necessaries for any length of time, thought to tire out
and waste the vigor of Caesar's army, which could not last long.  For the best part of his
men, though they had great experience and showed an irresistible courage in all engagements,
yet by their frequent marches, changing their camps, attacking fortifications, and keeping
long night-watches, were getting worn-out and broken; they being now old, their bodies less
fit for labor, and their courage, also, beginning to give way with the failure of their strength.
Besides, it was said that an infectious disease, occasioned by their irregular diet, was prevailing
in Caesar's army, and what was of greatest moment, he was neither furnished with money nor
provisions, so that in a little time he must needs fall of himself.

For these reasons Pompey had no mind to fight him, but was thanked for it by none but Cato,
who rejoiced at the prospect of sparing his fellow-citizens.  For he when he saw the dead bodies
of those who had fallen in the last battle on Caesar's side, to the number of a thousand, turned
away, covered his face, and shed tears.  But everyone else upbraided Pompey for being reluctant
to fight, and tried to goad him on by such nicknames as Agamemnon, and king of kings, as if
he were in no hurry to lay down his sovereign authority, but was pleased to see so many commanders
attending on him, and paying their attendance at his tent.  Favonius, who affected Cato's free
way of speaking his mind, complained bitterly that they should eat no figs even this year at
Tusculum, because of Pompey's love of command. Afranius, who was lately returned out of Spain,
and on account of his ill success there, labored under the suspicion of having been bribed
to betray the army, asked why they did not fight this purchaser of provinces.  Pompey was driven,
against his own will, by this kind of language, into offering battle, and proceeded to follow
Caesar.  Caesar had found great difficulties in his march, for no country would supply him
with provisions, his reputation being very much fallen since his late defeat. But after he
took Gomphi, a town of Thessaly, he not only found provisions for his army, but physic too.
For there they met with plenty of wine, which they took very freely, and heated with this,
sporting and reveling on their march in bacchanalian fashion, they shook off the disease, and
their whole constitution was relieved and changed into another habit.

When the two armies were come into Pharsalia, and both encamped there, Pompey's thoughts ran
the same way as they had done before, against fighting, and the more because of some unlucky
presages, and a vision he had in a dream. But those who were about him were so confident of
success, that Domitius, and Spinther, and Scipio, as if they had already conquered, quarreled
which should succeed Caesar in the pontificate.  And many sent to Rome to take houses fit to
accommodate consuls and praetors, as being sure of entering upon those offices, as soon as
the battle was over.  The cavalry especially were obstinate for fighting, being splendidly
armed and bravely mounted, and valuing themselves upon the fine horses they kept, and upon
their own handsome persons; as also upon the advantage of their numbers, for they were five
thousand against one thousand of Caesar's.  Nor were the numbers of the infantry less disproportionate,
there being forty-five thousand of Pompey's, against twenty-two thousand of the enemy.

Caesar, collecting his soldiers together, told them that Corfinius  was coming up to them with
two legions, and that fifteen cohorts more under Calenus were posted at Megara and Athens;
he then asked them whether they would stay till these joined them, or would hazard the battle
by themselves.  They all cried out to him not to wait, but on the contrary to do whatever he
could to bring about an engagement as soon as possible.  When he sacrificed to the gods for
the lustration of his army, upon the death of the first victim, the augur told him, within
three days he should come to a decisive action.  Caesar asked him whether he saw anything in
the entrails, which promised a happy event.  "That," said the priest, "you can best answer
yourself; for the gods signify a great alteration from the present posture of affairs.  If,
therefore, you think yourself well off now, expect worse fortune; if unhappy, hope for better."
The night before the battle, as he walked the rounds about midnight, there was a light seen
in the heaven, very bright and flaming, which seemed to pass over Caesar's camp, and fall into
Pompey's.  And when Caesar's soldiers came to relieve the watch in the morning, they perceived
a panic disorder among the enemies.  However, he did not expect to fight that day, but set
about raising his camp with the intention of marching towards Scotussa.

But when the tents were now taken down, his scouts rode up to him, and told him the enemy would
give him battle.  With this news he was extremely pleased, and having performed his devotions
to the gods, set his army in battle array, dividing them into three bodies.  Over the middlemost
he placed Domitius Calvinus; Antony commanded the left wing, and he himself the right, being
resolved to fight at the head of the tenth legion. But when he saw the enemies' cavalry taking
position against him, being struck with their fine appearance and their number, he gave private
orders that six cohorts from the rear of the army should come round and join him, whom he posted
behind the right wing, and instructed them what they should do, when the enemy's horse came
to charge.  On the other side, Pompey commanded the right wing, Domitius the left, and Scipio,
Pompey's father-in-law, the center.  The whole weight of the cavalry was collected on the left
wing, with the intent that they should outflank the right wing of the enemy, and rout that
part where the general himself commanded.  For they thought no phalanx of infantry could be
solid enough to sustain such a shock, but that they must necessarily be broken and shattered
all to pieces upon the onset of so immense a force of cavalry. When they were ready on both
sides to give the signal for battle, Pompey commended his foot who were in the front to stand
their ground, and without breaking their order, receive quietly the enemy's first attack, till
they came within javelin's cast. Caesar, in this respect, also, blames Pompey's generalship,
as if he had not been aware how the first encounter, when made with an impetus and upon the
run, gives weight and force to the strokes, and fires the men's spirits into a flame, which
the general concurrence fans to full heat.  He himself was just putting the troops into motion
and advancing to the action, when he found one of his captains, a trusty and experienced soldier,
encouraging his men to exert their utmost.  Caesar called him by his name, and said, "What
hopes, Caius Crassinius, and what grounds for encouragement?"  Crassinius stretched out his
hand, and cried in a loud voice, "We shall conquer nobly, Caesar; and I this day will deserve
your praises, either alive or dead."  So he said, and was the first man to run in upon the
enemy, followed by the hundred and twenty soldiers about him, and breaking through the first
rank, still pressed on forwards with much slaughter of the enemy, till at last he was struck
back by the wound of a sword, which went in at his mouth with such force that it came out at
his neck behind.

Whilst the foot was thus sharply engaged in the main battle, on the flank Pompey's horse rode
up confidently, and opened their ranks very wide, that they might surround the Fight wing of
Caesar.  But before they engaged, Caesar's cohorts rushed out and attacked them, and did not
dart their javelins at a distance, nor strike at the thighs and legs, as they usually did in
close battle, but aimed at their faces.  For thus Caesar had instructed them, in hopes that
young gentlemen, who had not known much of battles and wounds, but came wearing their hair
long, in the flower of their age and height of their beauty, would be more apprehensive of
such blows, and not care for hazarding both a danger at present and a blemish for the future.
And so it proved, for they were so far from bearing the stroke of the javelins, that they could
not stand the sight of them, but turned about, and covered their faces to secure them.  Once
in disorder, presently they turned about to fly; and so most shamefully ruined all.  For those
who had beat them back, at once outflanked the infantry, and falling on their rear, cut them
to pieces.  Pompey, who commanded the other wing of the army, when he saw his cavalry thus
broken and flying, was no longer himself, nor did he now remember that he was Pompey the Great,
but like one whom some god had deprived of his senses, retired to his tent without speaking;
a word, and there sat to expect the event, till the whole army was routed, and the enemy appeared
upon the works which were thrown up before the camp, where they closely engaged with his men,
who were posted there to defend it.  Then first he seemed to have recovered his senses, and
uttering, it is said, only these words, "What, into the camp too?" he laid aside his general's
habit, and putting on such clothes as might best favor his flight, stole off.  What fortune
he met with afterwards, how he took shelter in Egypt, and was murdered there, we tell you in
his Life.

Caesar, when he came to view Pompey's camp, and saw some of his opponents dead upon the ground,
others dying, said, with a groan, "This they would have; they brought me to this necessity.
I, Caius Caesar, after succeeding in so many wars, had been condemned, had I dismissed my army."
These words, Pollio says, Caesar spoke in Latin at that time, and that he himself wrote them
in Greek; adding, that those who were killed at the taking of the camp, were most of them servants;
and that not above six thousand soldiers fell.  Caesar incorporated most of the foot whom he
took prisoners, with his own legions, and gave a free pardon to many of the distinguished persons,
and amongst the rest, to Brutus, who afterwards killed him.  He did not immediately appear
after the battle was over, which put Caesar, it is said, into great anxiety for him; nor was
his pleasure less when he saw him present himself alive.

There were many prodigies that foreshowed this victory, but the most remarkable that we are
told of, was that at Tralles.  In the temple of Victory stood Caesar's statue.  The ground
on which it stood was naturally hard and solid, and the stone with which it was paved still
harder; yet it is said that a palm-tree shot itself up near the pedestal of this statue.  In
the city of Padua, one Caius Cornelius, who had the character of a good augur, the fellow-citizen
and acquaintance of Livy, the historian, happened to be making some augural observations that
very day when the battle was fought.  And first, as Livy tells us, he pointed out the time
of the fight, and said to those who were by him, that just then the battle was begun, and the
men engaged.  When he looked a second time, and observed the omens, he leaped up as if he had
been inspired, and cried out, "Caesar, you are victorious."  This much surprised the standers
by, but he took the garland which he had on from his head, and swore he would never wear it
again till the event should give authority to his art.  This Livy positively states for a truth.

Caesar, as a memorial of his victory, gave the Thessalians their freedom, and then went in
pursuit of Pompey.  When he was come into Asia, to gratify Theopompus, the author of the collection
of fables, he enfranchised the Cnidians, and remitted one third of their tribute to all the
people of the province of Asia.  When he came to Alexandria, where Pompey was already murdered,
he would not look upon Theodotus, who presented him with his head, but taking only his signet,
shed tears.  Those of Pompey's friends who had been arrested by the king of Egypt, as they
were wandering in those parts, he relieved, and offered them his own friendship.  In his letter
to his friends at Rome, he told them that the greatest and most signal pleasure his victory
had given him, was to be able continually to save the lives of fellow-citizens who had fought
against him.  As to the war in Egypt, some say it was at once dangerous and dishonorable, and
noways necessary, but occasioned only by his passion for Cleopatra.  Others blame the ministers
of the king, and especially the eunuch Pothinus, who was the chief favorite, and had lately
killed Pompey, who had banished Cleopatra, and was now secretly plotting Caesar's destruction,
(to prevent which, Caesar from that time began to sit up whole nights, under pretense of drinking,
for the security of his person,) while openly he was intolerable in his affronts to Caesar,
both by his words and actions.  For when Caesar's soldiers had musty and unwholesome corn measured
out to them, Pothinus told them they must be content with it, since they were fed at another's
cost. He ordered that his table should be served with wooden and earthen dishes, and said Caesar
had carried off all the gold and silver plate, under pretense of arrears of debt.  For the
present king's father owed Caesar one thousand seven hundred and fifty myriads of money; Caesar
had formerly remitted to his children the rest, but thought fit to demand the thousand myriads
at that time, to maintain his army.  Pothinus told him that he had better go now and attend
to his other affairs of greater consequence, and that he should receive his money at another
time with thanks.  Caesar replied that he did not want Egyptians to be his counselors, and
soon after, privately sent for Cleopatra from her retirement.

She took a small boat, and one only of her confidents, Apollodorus, the Sicilian, along with
her, and in the dusk of the evening landed near the palace.  She was at a loss how to get in
undiscovered, till she thought of putting herself into the coverlet of a bed and lying at length,
whilst Apollodorus tied up the bedding and carried it on his back through the gates to Caesar's
apartment.  Caesar was first captivated by this proof of Cleopatra's bold wit, and was afterwards
so overcome by the charm of her society, that he made a reconciliation between her and her
brother, on condition that she should rule as his colleague in the kingdom.  A festival was
kept to celebrate this reconciliation, where Caesar's barber, a busy, listening fellow, whose
excessive timidity made him inquisitive into everything, discovered that there was a plot carrying
on against Caesar by Achillas, general of the king's forces, and Pothinus, the eunuch.  Caesar,
upon the first intelligence of it, set a guard upon the hall where the feast was kept, and
killed Pothinus. Achillas escaped to the army, and raised a troublesome and embarrassing war
against Caesar, which it was not easy for him to manage with his few soldiers against so powerful
a city and so large an army.  The first difficulty he met with was want of water, for the enemies
had turned the canals. Another was, when the enemy endeavored to cut off his communication
by sea, he was forced to divert that danger by setting fire to his own ships, which, after
burning the docks, thence spread on and destroyed the great library.  A third was, when in
an engagement near Pharos, he leaped from the mole into a small boat, to assist his soldiers
who were in danger, and when the Egyptians pressed him on every side, he threw himself into
the sea, and with much difficulty swam off.  This was the time when, according to the story,
he had a number of manuscripts in his hand, which, though he was continually darted at, and
forced to keep his head often under water, yet he did not let go, but held them up safe from
wetting in one hand, whilst he swam with the other.  His boat, in the meantime, was quickly
sunk.  At last, the king having gone off to Achillas and his party, Caesar engaged and conquered
them.  Many fell in that battle, and the king himself was never seen after.  Upon this, he
left Cleopatra queen of Egypt, who soon after had a son by him, whom the Alexandrians called
Caesarion, and then departed for Syria.

Thence he passed to Asia, where he heard that Domitius was beaten by Pharnaces, son of Mithridates,
and had fled out of Pontus with a handful of men; and that Pharnaces pursued the victory so
eagerly, that though he was already master of Bithynia and Cappadocia, he had a further design
of attempting the Lesser Armenia, and was inviting all the kings and tetrarchs there to rise.
Caesar immediately marched against him with three legions, fought him near Zela, drove him
out of Pontus, and totally defeated his army.  When he gave Amantius, a friend of his at Rome,
an account of this action, to express the promptness and rapidity of it, he used three words,
I came, saw, and conquered, which in Latin having all the same cadence, carry with them a very
suitable air of brevity.

Hence he crossed into Italy, and came to Rome at the end of that year, for which he had been
a second time chosen dictator, though that office had never before lasted a whole year, and
was elected consul for the next.  He was ill spoken of, because upon a mutiny of some soldiers,
who killed Cosconius and Galba, who had been praetors, he gave them only the slight reprimand
of calling them Citizens, instead of Fellow-Soldiers, and afterwards assigned to each man a
thousand drachmas, besides a share of lands in Italy.  He was also reflected on for Dolabella's
extravagance, Amantius's covetousness, Antony's debauchery, and Corfinius's profuseness, who
pulled down Pompey's house, and rebuilt it, as not magnificent enough; for the Romans were
much displeased with all these.  But Caesar, for the prosecution of his own scheme of government,
though he knew their characters and disapproved them, was forced to make use of those who would
serve him.

After the battle of Pharsalia, Cato and Scipio fled into Africa, and there, with the assistance
of king Juba, got together a considerable force, which Caesar resolved to engage.  He, accordingly,
passed into Sicily about the winter-solstice, and to remove from his officers' minds all hopes
of delay there, encamped by the sea-shore, and as soon as ever he had a fair wind, put to sea
with three thousand foot and a few horse.  When he had landed them, he went back secretly,
under some apprehensions for the larger part of his army, but met them upon the sea, and brought
them all to the same camp.  There he was informed that the enemies relied much upon an ancient
oracle, that the family of the Scipios should be always victorious in Africa.  There was in
his army a man, otherwise mean and contemptible, but of the house of the Africani, and his
name Scipio Sallutio.  This man Caesar, (whether in raillery, to ridicule Scipio, who commended
the enemy, or seriously to bring over the omen to his side, it were hard to say,) put at the
head of his troops, as if he were general, in all the frequent battles which he was compelled
to fight.  For he was in such want both of victualing for his men, and forage for his horses,
that he was forced to feed the horses with sea-weed, which he washed thoroughly to take off
its saltiness, and mixed with a little grass, to give it a more agreeable taste.  The Numidians,
in great numbers, and well horsed, whenever he went, came up and commanded the country.  Caesar's
cavalry being one day unemployed, diverted themselves with seeing an African, who entertained
them with dancing and at the same time playing upon the pipe to admiration.  They were so taken
with this, that they alighted, and gave their horses to some boys, when on a sudden the enemy
surrounded them, killed some, pursued the rest, and fell in with them into their camp; and
had not Caesar himself and Asinius Pollio come to their assistance, and put a stop to their
flight, the war had been then at an end.  In another engagement, also, the enemy had again
the better, when Caesar, it is said, seized a standard-bearer, who was running away, by the
neck, and forcing him to face about, said, "Look, that is the way to the enemy."

Scipio, flushed with this success at first, had a mind to come to one decisive action.  He
therefore left Afranius and Juba in two distinct bodies not far distant, and marched himself
towards Thapsus, where he proceeded to build a fortified camp above a lake, to serve as a center-point
for their operations, and also as a place of refuge.  Whilst Scipio was thus employed, Caesar
with incredible dispatch made his way through thick woods, and a country supposed to be impassable,
cut off one party of the enemy, and attacked another in the front.  Having routed these, he
followed up his opportunity and the current of his good fortune, and on the first onset carried
Afranius's camp, and ravaged that of the Numidians, Juba, their king, being glad to save himself
by flight; so that in a small part of a single day he made himself master of three camps, and
killed fifty thousand of the enemy, with the loss only of fifty of his own men.  This is the
account some give of that fight.  Others say, he was not in the action, but that he was taken
with his usual distemper just as he was setting his army in order.  He perceived the approaches
of it, and before it had too far disordered his senses, when he was already beginning to shake
under its influence, withdrew into a neighboring fort, where he reposed himself.  Of the men
of consular and praetorian dignity that were taken after the fight, several Caesar put to death,
others anticipated him by killing themselves.

Cato had undertaken to defend Utica, and for that reason was not in the battle.  The desire
which Caesar had to take him alive, made him hasten thither; and upon the intelligence that
he had dispatched himself, he was much discomposed, for what reason is not so well agreed.
He certainly said, "Cato, I must grudge you your death, as you grudged me the honor of saving
your life." Yet the discourse he wrote against Cato after his death, is no great sign of his
kindness, or that he was inclined to be reconciled to him.  For how is it probable that he
would have been tender of his life, when he was so bitter against his memory?  But from his
clemency to Cicero, Brutus, and many others who fought against him, it may be divined that
Caesar's book was not written so much out of animosity to Cato, as in his own vindication.
Cicero had written an encomium upon Cato, and called it by his name.  A composition by so great
a master upon so excellent a subject, was sure to be in everyone's hands. This touched Caesar,
who looked upon a panegyric on his enemy, as no better than an invective against himself; and
therefore he made in his Anti-Cato, a collection of whatever could be said in his derogation.
The two compositions, like Cato and Caesar themselves, have each of them their several admirers.

Caesar, upon his return to Rome, did not omit to pronounce before the people a magnificent
account of his victory, telling them that he had subdued a country which would supply the public
every year with two hundred thousand attic bushels of corn, and three million pounds weight
of oil.  He then led three triumphs for Egypt, Pontus, and Africa, the last for the victory
over, not Scipio, but king Juba, as it was professed, whose little son was then carried in
the triumph, the happiest captive that ever was, who of a barbarian Numidian, came by this
means to obtain a place among the most learned historians of Greece.  After the triumphs, he
distributed rewards to his soldiers, and treated the people with feasting and shows.  He entertained
the whole people together at one feast, where twenty-two thousand dining couches were laid
out; and he made a display of gladiators, and of battles by sea, in honor, as he said, of his
daughter Julia, though she had been long since dead.  When these shows were over, an account
was taken of the people, who from three hundred and twenty thousand, were now reduced to one
hundred and fifty thousand.  So great a waste had the civil war made in Rome alone, not to
mention what the other parts of Italy and the provinces suffered.

He was now chosen a fourth time consul, and went into Spain against Pompey's sons.  They were
but young, yet had gathered together a very numerous army, and showed they had courage and
conduct to command it, so that Caesar was in extreme danger. The great battle was near the
town of Munda, in which Caesar seeing his men hard pressed, and making but a weak resistance,
ran through the ranks among the soldiers, and crying out, asked them whether they were not
ashamed to deliver him into the hands of boys?  At last, with great difficulty, and the best
efforts he could make, he forced back the enemy, killing thirty thousand of them, though with
the loss of one thousand of his best men. When he came back from the fight, he told his friends
that he had often fought for victory, but this was the first time that he had ever fought for
life.  This battle was won on the feast of Bacchus, the very day in which Pompey, four years
before. had set out for the war.  The younger of Pompey's sons escaped; but Didius, some days
after the fight, brought the head of the elder to Caesar.  This was the last war he was engaged
in.  The triumph which he celebrated for this victory, displeased the Romans beyond any thing.
For he had not defeated foreign generals, or barbarian kings, but had destroyed the children
and family of one of the greatest men of Rome, though unfortunate; and it did not look well
to lead a procession in celebration of the calamities of his country, and to rejoice in those
things for which no other apology could be made either to gods or men, than their being absolutely
necessary.  Besides that, hitherto he had never sent letters or messengers to announce any
victory over his fellow-citizens, but had seemed rather to be ashamed of the action, than to
expect honor from it.

Nevertheless his countrymen, conceding all to his fortune, and accepting the bit, in the hope
that the government of a single person would give them time to breathe after so many civil
wars and calamities, made him dictator for life.  This was indeed a tyranny avowed, since his
power now was not only absolute, but perpetual too.  Cicero made the first proposals to the
senate for conferring honors upon him, which might in some sort be said not to exceed the limits
of ordinary human moderation.  But others, striving which should deserve most, carried them
so excessively high, that they made Caesar odious to the most indifferent and moderate sort
of men, by the pretension and the extravagance of the titles which they decreed him.  His enemies,
too, are thought to have had some share in this, as well as his flatterers.  It gave them advantage
against him, and would be their justification for any attempt they should make upon him; for
since the civil wars were ended, he had nothing else that he could be charged with.  And they
had good reason to decree a temple to Clemency, in token of their thanks for the mild use he
made of his victory.  For he not only pardoned many of those who fought against him, but, further,
to some gave honors and offices; as particularly to Brutus and Cassius, who both of them were
praetors.  Pompey's images that were thrown down, he set up again, upon which Cicero also said
that by raising Pompey's statues he had fixed his own.  When his friends advised him to have
a guard, and several offered their service, he would not hear of it; but said it was better
to suffer death once, than always to live in fear of it.  He looked upon the affections of
the people to be the best and surest guard, and entertained them again with public feasting,
and general distributions of corn; and to gratify his army, he sent out colonies to several
places, of which the most remarkable were Carthage and Corinth; which as before they had been
ruined at the same time, so now were restored and repeopled together.

As for the men of high rank, he promised to some of them future consulships and praetorships,
some he consoled with other offices and honors, and to all held out hopes of favor by the solicitude
he showed to rule with the general good-will; insomuch that upon the death of Maximus one day
before his consulship was ended, he made Caninius Revilius consul for that day.  And when many
went to pay the usual compliments and attentions to the new consul, "Let us make haste," said
Cicero, "lest the man be gone out of his office before we come."

Caesar was born to do great things, and had a passion after honor, and the many noble exploits
he had done did not now serve as an inducement to him to sit still and reap the fruit of his
past labors, but were incentives and encouragments to go on, and raised in him ideas of still
greater actions, and a desire of new glory, as if the present were all spent.  It was in fact
a sort of emulous struggle with himself, as it had been with another, how he might outdo his
past actions by his future.  In pursuit of these thoughts, he resolved to make war upon the
Parthians, and when he had subdued them, to pass through Hyrcania; thence to march along by
the Caspian Sea to Mount Caucasus, and so on about Pontus, till he came into Scythia; then
to overrun all the countries bordering upon Germany, and Germany itself; and so to return through
Gaul into Italy, after completing the whole circle of his intended empire, and bounding it
on every side by the ocean.  While preparations were making for this expedition, he proposed
to dig through the isthmus on which Corinth stands; and appointed Anienus to superintend the
work.  He had also a design of diverting the Tiber, and carrying it by a deep channel directly
from Rome to Circeii, and so into the sea near Tarracina, that there might be a safe and easy
passage for all merchants who traded to Rome.  Besides this, he intended to drain all the marshes
by Pomentium and Setia, and gain ground enough from the water to employ many thousands of men
in tillage.  He proposed further to make great mounds on the shore nearest Rome, to hinder
the sea from breaking in upon the land, to clear the coast at Ostia of all the hidden rocks
and shoals that made it unsafe for shipping, and to form ports and harbors fit to receive the
large number of vessels that would frequent them.

These things were designed without being carried into effect; but his reformation of the calendar,
in order to rectify the irregularity of time, was not only projected with great scientific
ingenuity, but was brought to its completion, and proved of very great use.  For it was not
only in ancient times that the Romans had wanted a certain rule to make the revolutions of
their months fall in with the course of the year, so that their festivals and solemn days for
sacrifice were removed by little and little, till at last they came to be kept at seasons quite
the contrary to what was at first intended, but even at this time the people had no way of
computing the solar year; only the priests could say the time, and they, at their pleasure,
without giving any notice, slipped in the intercalary month, which they called Mercedonius.
Numa was the first who put in this month, but his expedient was but a poor one and quite inadequate
to correct all the errors that arose in the returns of the annual cycles, as we have shown
in his life. Caesar called in the best philosophers and mathematicians of his time to settle
the point, and out of the systems he had before him, formed a new and more exact method of
correcting the calendar, which the Romans use to this day, and seem to succeed better than
any nation in avoiding the errors occasioned by the inequality of the cycles.  Yet even this
gave offense to those who looked with an evil eye on his position, and felt oppressed by his
power.  Cicero, the orator, when someone in his company chanced to say, the next morning Lyra
would rise, replied, "Yes, in accordance with the edict," as if even this were a matter of
compulsion.

But that which brought upon him the most apparent and mortal hatred, was his desire of being
king; which gave the common people the first occasion to quarrel with him, and proved the most
specious pretense to those who had been his secret enemies all along.  Those, who would have
procured him that title, gave it out, that it was foretold in the Sybils' books that the Romans
should conquer the Parthians when they fought against them under the conduct of a king, but
not before.  And one day, as Caesar was coming down from Alba to Rome, some were so bold as
to salute him by the name of king; but he finding the people disrelish it, seemed to resent
it himself, and said his name was Caesar, not king.  Upon this, there was a general silence,
and he passed on looking not very well pleased or contented. Another time, when the senate
had conferred on him some extravagant honors, he chanced to receive the message as he was sitting
on the rostra, where, though the consuls and praetors themselves waited on him, attended by
the whole body of the senate, he did not rise, but behaved himself to them as if they had been
private men, and told them his honors wanted rather to be retrenched than increased.  This
treatment offended not only the senate, but the commonalty too, as if they thought the affront
upon the senate equally reflected upon the whole republic; so that all who could decently leave
him went off, looking much discomposed.  Caesar, perceiving the false step he had made, immediately
retired home; and laying his throat bare, told his friends that he was ready to offer this
to anyone who would give the stroke.  But afterwards he made the malady from which he suffered,
the excuse for his sitting, saying that those who are attacked by it, lose their presence of
mind, if they talk much standing; that they presently grow giddy, fall into convulsions, and
quite lose their reason.  But this was not the reality, for he would willingly have stood up
to the senate, had not Cornelius Balbus, one of his friends, or rather flatterers, hindered
him.  "Will you not remember," said he, "you are Caesar, and claim the honor which is due to
your merit?"

He gave a fresh occasion of resentment by his affront to the tribunes.  The Lupercalia were
then celebrated, a feast at the first institution belonging, as some writers say, to the shepherds,
and having some connection with the Arcadian Lycaea. Many young noblemen and magistrates run
up and down the city with their upper garments off, striking all they meet with thongs of hide,
by way of sport; and many women, even of the highest rank, place themselves in the way, and
hold out their hands to the lash, as boys in a school do to the master, out of a belief that
it procures an easy labor to those who are with child, and makes those conceive who are barren.
Caesar, dressed in a triumphal robe, seated himself in a golden chair at the rostra, to view
this ceremony.  Antony, as consul, was one of those who ran this course, and when he came into
the forum, and the people made way for him, he went up and reached to Caesar a diadem wreathed
with laurel.  Upon this, there was a shout, but only a slight one, made by the few who were
planted there for that purpose; but when Caesar refused it, there was universal applause. 
Upon the second offer, very few, and upon the second refusal, all again applauded.  Caesar
finding it would not take, rose up, and ordered the crown to be carried into the capitol. Caesar's
statues were afterwards found with royal diadems on their heads.  Flavius and Marullus, two
tribunes of the people, went presently and pulled them off, and having apprehended those who
first saluted Caesar as king, committed them to prison.  The people followed them with acclamations,
and called them by the name of Brutus, because Brutus was the first who ended the succession
of kings, and transferred the power which before was lodged in one man into the hands of the
senate and people. Caesar so far resented this, that he displaced Marullus and Flavius; and
in urging his charges against them, at the same time ridiculed the people, by himself giving
the men more than once the names of Bruti, and Cumaei.

This made the multitude turn their thoughts to Marcus Brutus, who, by his father's side, was
thought to be descended from that first Brutus, and by his mother's side from the Servilii,
another noble family, being besides nephew and son-in-law to Cato.  But the honors and favors
he had received from Caesar, took off the edge from the desires he might himself have felt
for overthrowing the new monarchy.  For he had not only been pardoned himself after Pompey's
defeat at Pharsalia, and had procured the same grace for many of his friends, but was one in
whom Caesar had a particular confidence.  He had at that time the most honorable praetorship
of the year, and was named for the consulship four years after, being preferred before Cassius,
his competitor.  Upon the question as to the choice, Caesar, it is related, said that Cassius
had the fairer pretensions, but that he could not pass by Brutus.  Nor would he afterwards
listen to some who spoke against Brutus, when the conspiracy against him was already afoot,
but laying his hand on his body, said to the informers, "Brutus will wait for this skin of
mine," intimating that he was worthy to bear rule on account of his virtue, but would not be
base and ungrateful to gain it.  Those who desired a change, and looked on him as the only,
or at least the most proper, person to effect it, did not venture to speak with him; but in
the night time laid papers about his chair of state, where he used to sit and determine causes,
with such sentences in them as, "You are asleep, Brutus," "You are no longer Brutus."  Cassius,
when he perceived his ambition a little raised upon this, was more instant than before to work
him yet further, having himself a private grudge against Caesar, for some reasons that we have
mentioned in the Life of Brutus. Nor was Caesar without suspicions of him, and said once to
his friends, "What do you think Cassius is aiming at?  I don't like him, he looks so pale."
And when it was told him that Antony and Dolabella were in a plot against him, he said he did
not fear such fat, luxurious men, but rather the pale, lean fellows, meaning Cassius and Brutus.

Fate, however, is to all appearance more unavoidable than unexpected.  For many strange prodigies
and apparitions are said to have been observed shortly before the event.  As to the lights
in the heavens, the noises heard in the night, and the wild birds which perched in the forum,
these are not perhaps worth taking notice of in so great a case as this.  Strabo, the philosopher,
tells us that a number of men were seen, looking as if they were heated through with fire,
contending with each other; that a quantity of flame issued from the hand of a soldier's servant,
so that they who saw it thought he must be burnt, but that after all he had no hurt.  As Caesar
was sacrificing, the victim's heart was missing, a very bad omen, because no living creature
can subsist without a heart.  One finds it also related by many, that a soothsayer bade him
prepare for some great danger on the ides of March.  When the day was come, Caesar, as he went
to the senate, met this soothsayer, and said to him by way of raillery, "The ides of March
are come;" who answered him calmly, "Yes, they are come, but they are not past."  The day before
this assassination, he supped with Marcus Lepidus; and as he was signing some letters, according
to his custom, as he reclined at table, there arose a question what sort of death was the best.
At which he immediately, before anyone could speak, said, "A sudden one."

After this, as he was in bed with his wife, all the doors and windows of the house flew open
together; he was startled at the noise, and the light which broke into the room, and sat up
in his bed, where by the moonshine he perceived Calpurnia fast asleep, but heard her utter
in her dream some indistinct words and inarticulate groans.  She fancied at that time she was
weeping over Caesar, and holding him butchered in her arms. Others say this was not her dream,
but that she dreamed that a pinnacle which the senate, as Livy relates, had ordered to be raised
on Caesar's house by way of ornament and grandeur, was tumbling down, which was the occasion
of her tears and ejaculations.  When it was day, she begged of Caesar, if it were possible,
not to stir out, but to adjourn the senate to another time; and if he slighted her dreams,
that he would be pleased to consult his fate by sacrifices, and other kinds of divination.
Nor was he himself without some suspicion and fears; for he never before discovered any womanish
superstition in Calpurnia, whom he now saw in such great alarm.  Upon the report which the
priests made to him, that they had killed several sacrifices, and still found them inauspicious,
he resolved to send Antony to dismiss the senate.

In this juncture, Decimus Brutus, surnamed Albinus, one whom Caesar had such confidence in
that he made him his second heir, who nevertheless was engaged in the conspiracy with the other
Brutus and Cassius, fearing lest if Caesar should put off the senate to another day, the business
might get wind, spoke scoffingly and in mockery of the diviners, and blamed Caesar for giving
the senate so fair an occasion of saying he had put a slight upon them, for that they were
met upon his summons, and were ready to vote unanimously, that he should be declared king of
all the provinces out of Italy, and might wear a diadem in any other place but Italy, by sea
or land.  If anyone should be sent to tell them they might break up for the present, and meet
again when Calpurnia should chance to have better dreams, what would his enemies say?  Or who
would with any patience hear his friends, if they should presume to defend his government as
not arbitrary and tyrannical?  But if he was possessed so far as to think this day unfortunate,
yet it were more decent to go himself to the senate, and to adjourn it in his own person. Brutus,
as he spoke these words, took Caesar by the hand, and conducted him forth.  He was not gone
far from the door, when a servant of some other person's made towards him, but not being able
to come up to him, on account of the crowd of those who pressed about him, he made his way
into the house, and committed himself to Calpurnia, begging of her to secure him till Caesar
returned, because he had matters of great importance to communicate to him.

Artemidorus, a Cnidian, a teacher of Greek logic, and by that means so far acquainted with
Brutus and his friends as to have got into the secret, brought Caesar in a small written memorial,
the heads of what he had to depose.  He had observed that Caesar, as he received any papers,
presently gave them to the servants who attended on him; and therefore came as near to him
as he could, and said, "Read this, Caesar, alone, and quickly, for it contains matter of great
importance which nearly concerns you."  Caesar received it, and tried several times to read
it, but was still hindered by the crowd of those who came to speak to him.  However, he kept
it in his hand by itself till he came into the senate.  Some say it was another who gave Caesar
this note, and that Artemidorus could not get to him, being all along kept off by the crowd.

All these things might happen by chance.  But the place which was destined for the scene of
this murder, in which the senate met that day, was the same in which Pompey's statue stood,
and was one of the edifices which Pompey had raised and dedicated with his theater to the use
of the public, plainly showing that there was something of a supernatural influence which guided
the action, and ordered it to that particular place.  Cassius, just before the act, is said
to have looked towards Pompey's statue, and silently implored his assistance, though he had
been inclined to the doctrines of Epicurus.  But this occasion, and the instant danger, carried
him away out of all his reasonings, and filled him for the time with a sort of inspiration.
As for Antony, who was firm to Caesar, and a strong man, Brutus Albinus kept him outside the
house, and delayed him with a long conversation contrived on purpose.  When Caesar entered,
the senate stood up to show their respect to him, and of Brutus's confederates, some came about
his chair and stood behind it, others met him, pretending to add their petitions to those of
Tillius Cimber, in behalf of his brother, who was in exile; and they followed him with their
joint supplications till he came to his seat.  When he was sat down, he refused to comply with
their requests, and upon their urging him further, began to reproach them severally for their
importunities, when Tillius, laying hold of his robe with both his hands, pulled it down from
his neck, which was the signal for the assault.  Casca gave him the first cut, in the neck,
which was not mortal nor dangerous, as coming from one who at the beginning of such a bold
action was probably very much disturbed.  Caesar immediately turned about, and laid his hand
upon the dagger and kept hold of it.  And both of them at the same time cried out, he that
received the blow, in Latin, "Vile Casca, what does this mean?" and he that gave it, in Greek,
to his brother, "Brother, help!"  Upon this first onset, those who were not privy to the design
were astonished and their horror and amazement at what they saw were so great, that they durst
not fly nor assist Caesar, nor so much as speak a word.  But those who came prepared for the
business enclosed him on every side, with their naked daggers in their hands. Which way soever
he turned, he met with blows, and saw their swords leveled at his face and eyes, and was encompassed,
like a wild beast in the toils, on every side.  For it had been agreed they should each of
them make a thrust at him, and flesh themselves with his blood; for which reason Brutus also
gave him one stab in the groin.  Some say that he fought and resisted all the rest, shifting
his body to avoid the blows, and calling out for help, but that when he saw Brutus's sword
drawn, he covered his face with his robe and submitted, letting himself fall, whether it were
by chance, or that he was pushed in that direction by his murderers, at the foot of the pedestal
on which Pompey's statue stood, and which was thus wetted with his blood. So that Pompey himself
seemed to have presided, as it were, over the revenge done upon his adversary, who lay here
at his feet, and breathed out his soul through his multitude of wounds, for they say he received
three and twenty.  And the conspirators themselves were many of them wounded by each other,
whilst they all leveled their blows at the same person.

