To these assistants assembled in Cincinnati the plan of revision was fully explained and the
work was alloted. Miss Funnelle and Mr. Stevenson took charge of the first three readers, Mr.
Harvey and Dr. Hewett of the three higher books. All were perfectly familiar with the old books
and in a few days substantial agreement was reached as to the changes needed. By two months
of constant and intelligent labor the manuscripts assumed approximate form. The opening of
the schools called the assistants back to their homes and the editor of the firm shaped the
manuscripts for the text and procured the necessary illustrations. These were made, regardless
of cost, by the best artists and engravers to be found in the country. When the plates were
finished, the publishers printed several hundred copies of each of the three smaller books
and distributed them as proofs to selected teachers in many states, asking them for criticisms
and suggestions. The answers made were of great value. The First Reader was entirely re-written
by the editor and the plates of other readers were made more perfect. In this revision the
three lower books were almost entirely new. The Fourth was largely new matter, while in the
Fifth and Sixth such matter as could not be improved from the entire field of literature, was
retained. The Fifth and Sixth readers furnished brief biographies of each author and contained
notes explanatory of the text. These were new features and they proved valuable at that date.

[Preparations for a Fight]

As soon as these books were completed, large editions were printed and they were most vigorously
exploited not only to take the place of the older edition of McGuffey Readers, but to supplant
the newly introduced Appleton Readers.

This book-fight was a long and bitter one. Every device known to the agency managers of the
houses engaged was employed. Even exchanges of books became common. It was war; and like every
war was carried on for victory and not for profit. It is perhaps fortunate that such contests
cannot in the nature of things last long. In the long run business must show a profit or fail.
Contrary to popular opinion, a book war is not profitable in itself; but it is a form of competition
that has existed for fully a century. It presents no novelties even now.

[Success Attained]

The two chief combatants at length withdrew with one accord. Neither firm could claim entire
victory; but the McGuffey readers came through with much the larger sales and these increased
for years. By this contest the firm of Van Antwerp, Bragg & Co. won a reputation as fighters
that protected them in after years from ill-considered attacks by its competitors.

The revised edition of the McGuffey Readers, having no author's name on the title page, designed
and compiled under the direction of the publishers, but retaining the moral excellences and
literary qualities that had been affixed to the series from its origin, attained the largest
sales that have as yet been accorded by the public to a single series of books. Of the Sixth
Reader, which must have the least sale, over a million copies have been distributed, as shown
by the edition number. Of the First Reader more than eight million copies have been used.

[Other Competitors]

At no time in the history of these readers have they been without formidable competition. Pickett's
Readers were published in Cincinnati as early as 1832. Albert Pickett was at one time president
of the College of Teachers and his books were published by John W. Pickett, who was probably
his brother. Later some additional books were prepared by John W. Pickett, M.D., LL.D., and
published by U.P. James in 1841, and by J. Earnst in 1845. These readers were vigorously pushed
into the market for several years, but in the end were unsuccessful.

The Goodrich Readers published by Morton & Griswold in Louisville, Ky., were perhaps the most
constant competitors with the McGuffey Readers in the early years throughout the states of
the Mississippi Valley. These were prepared by S.G. Goodrich, the author of the then popular
"Peter Parley Tales." The readers were originally published in Boston and some copies bear
the imprint of Otis, Broaders & Co. They were first copyrighted in 1839 and were frequently
revised. They finally became the property of the Louisville publisher. Mr. Smith and Mr. Morton
kept up a most vigorous schoolbook war, especially in Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky in the years
from 1845 to 1860. Cobb's Readers, copyrighted in 1845, were published for some time in Cincinnati
by B. Davenport. These were once widely introduced but soon went out of use.

It was very much the custom in those early days, before the railroads made transportation quick
and cheap for Eastern publishers to furnish a set of plates to some enterprising bookseller
in the West or to print an edition for him with his imprint.

Ebenezer Porter's Rhetorical Reader copyrighted in 1835 was sold largely in the western market
by William H. Moore, of Cincinnati, and in 1848 the books bore his imprint. Thus there was
ample competition for the market even at this early date. The Pickett Readers, Cobb Readers,
Goodrich Readers, and even the excellent Rhetorical Reader of Ebenezer Porter were all swept
out of the schools by the superior qualities of the McGuffey Readers and the persistent energies
of their publishers.

[Humorous Advertising]

In these books the publishers found space for a little advertising of their wares. In Pickett's
Readers there is printed conspicuously at the top of a page a warm commendation of Pickett's
Readers, written in 1835 by William H. McGuffey, Professor at Miami University, in which he
"considers them superior to any other works I have seen." That was before he made his own readers.
Mr. Smith responded by publishing a strong commendation of one of his books signed by Mr. Albert
Pickett. Life is seldom devoid of the lesser amenities.

The Willson Readers, published by the Harper Brothers, were vigorously pushed into the schools
of Ohio and Indiana about 1867. The first supply was usually sold to the school authorities
by agents who operated on the commission plan. Thus the agents had an interest in the introduction
sales, but cared nothing about the continuance of sales in after years. Booksellers, meanwhile,
kept the McGuffey Readers in stock, and whenever new readers were desired these were easily
obtained. In a few years the Willson Readers were out of the schools. Of course, there was
no lack of traveling agents and of circulars which freely criticised these Willson Readers,
which were constructed to teach not only reading but science. After a short time the children
wearied of reading about bugs and beetles they had never seen and gladly welcomed the books
that had a single aim.

[Enduring Qualities]

In the eyes of a publisher a good schoolbook is one that can be readily introduced and one
that will stay when it is put in use. The officials who adopt a schoolbook are not the users
of the book. They are adults long past the school age. Cases have been known when in important
adoptions the majority of the adopting board had not seen the inside of a school room for twenty-five
years. Of course such men are far behind the schools. They are governed by their own past experience.
When the teachers are allowed to have a voice in the way of advice, the real needs of the pupils
obtain more consideration. But the final real judge of the merits of a schoolbook is the boy
or girl who uses it. If the book is truly pedagogical, adjusted in every part to the average
mental development of the child, it becomes a valuable tool in the school room. If on the other
hand it is a mere collection of novelties such as catch the eye of inexpert judges and impress
merely the imagination, the books may be introduced; but they won't stay.

[Child Nature]

The McGuffey Readers had staying qualities. Teachers often became so familiar with their contents
that they needed no book in their hands to correct the work, but to each child the contents
of the book were new and fresh. It is the fashion of the present day to exalt the new at the
expense of the old. But the child of today is very much such as Socrates and Plato studied
in Greece. The development of the human mind may be more generally understood than it was then;
but it may be doubted whether the mass of teachers are today wiser in the results of child-study
than were the philosophers of ancient days. Child nature remains the same. At a given stage
in his upward progress, he is interested in much the same things. He is led to think for himself
in much the same way, and the whole end and aim of education is to lead toward self activity.
The readers that deal simply with facts--information readers--may lodge in the minds of children
some scraps of encyclopedic information which may in future life become useful. But the readers
that rouse the moral sentiments, that touch the imagination, that elevate and establish character
by selections chosen from the wisest writers in English in all the centuries that have passed
since our language assumed a comparatively fixed literary form, have a much more valuable function
to perform. Character is more valuable than knowledge and a taste for pure and ennobling literature
is a safeguard for the young that cannot be safely ignored.

The success of the McGuffey Readers was due primarily to their adaptation to the general demand
of the schools and secondarily to the energy and skill of their publishers.

[Moral Teaching]

The books in their first form were strongly religious in their teaching without being denominational.
If a selection taught a moral lesson this was stated in formal words at the close. The pill
was not sugared. Thus at the close of a lesson narrating the results of disobedience, the three
little girls assembled and "they were talking how happy it made them to keep the Fifth Commandment."
There was in the books much direct teaching of moral principles, with "thou shalt" and "thou
shalt not." In the later revisions this gradually disappeared. The moral teaching was less
direct but more effective. The pupil was left to make his own deduction and the formal "haec
fabula docet" was omitted. The author and the publishers were fully justified in their firm
belief that the American people are a moral people and that they have a strong desire that
their children be taught to become brave, patriotic, honest, self-reliant, temperate, and virtuous
citizens.

In some of these books the retail price is printed. In 1844 the retail price of the First Reader
was twelve and a half cents. It contained 108 pages. In the same year, the Second Reader of
216 pages was priced at 25 cents. The Fourth Reader cost 75 cents, and contained 336 pages.

These prices were in a market when the day's wage of a laboring man was only fifty cents. Relatively
to the cost of other articles, schoolbooks were not nearly so cheap as they are now.

[Copyright Files]

