Transcriber's Note:                                        |
    |                                                            |
    | The original from which this text is transcribed uses an   |
    | unusual capitalization style which has been faithfully     |
    | reproduced. My outfit was made up of three assistant engineers and
    paraphernalia that was secessary for three complete camps, 30
    days' provisions (which actually ended up being 20) 11 carts and
    ponies, the ponies being very poor after a diet in the winter
    on buffalo grass and no grain. The 18th day of may was when I
    organized my division and camps in the order that they were to run.

       The country was litteraly under water dry ground was rare.

My life's triumph was the fact that I got us across the country.

May 20 was when the blizzard set in.

It lasted a full 24 gours, the snow was five inches, and the sloughs
were frozen over with half of an inch of ice, a rather interesting
event this winter, as he was far from the wood by 18 inches, so he
lay in his blankets with a diet of hard tack.

 He stands by his confidence that mind governs matter “never-changing,
      all-seeing, power-guidance and matter-guiding omnipotence" presides
over all things.

 He also has trust in the miracles underlying Christianity.
      Proffesor Huxley says, there is overpowering and vast evidence that
no event has ever occurred on this earth which was not the effect
of natural causes.

  The issue of a divine intellect, he sets aside as no relevance.

    Those who really believe turn to God when the ways of this world
fail, knowing that God's promise transcends the physical; God's
works are based in divine power and so are not subject to the laws
of nature.

 Friday prayers should normally be followed in the mosque, but neither
should there be more commitment, and once completed, the rest day
is free for leisure or for business [59] The prohibition of wine is
a restriction . which was severely felt in the early days of faith,
but it was not long before the universal sense (although bypassed
in some quarters) supported him.

   Gambling embargo was certainly unpopular, and receipt of interest
prohibition was also an important limitation, as it did tend to shackle
freedom of mercantile speculation, but this was partially bypassed
on various pretexts.

  Fast throughout the month of Ramzan was a more serious test, but
even this only takes during the day and night, from dusk till dawn,
all restrictions are removed, not only in terms of food, but all other
lawful gratifications.

[60] 
[Sidenote: Little, who is unpopular in the ordinance] No.
There is nothing, therefore, the requirements and ordinances of Islam,
except faster, which is very tiring for humanity, or as suggesting
any material sacrifice, and renunciation of pleasures and indulgences
of life, should lead a man of world to hesitate in embracing the new
faith.

[Sidenote: Indulgences allowed for wives and concubines] On the other hand, permit license Koran
equality - at least for males. - Is so vast, such as that have the means and desire to profit
from it should not be any limits, regardless of sexual indulgence. It is true that adultery
is punishable by death and fornication with stripes. But then the Koran gives permission to have
four wives faithful at a time.

