Now suppose a community should say (and no individual with a shadow of moral sense could say
otherwise), the rumseller takes an unfair advantage. He unites things which may just as well
be separated. There is no necessity that all the light and comfort and retirement should be
associated with liquor and licentiousness. Let us furnish these to the hundreds of poor young
men who have no retreat but their offices and boarding houses. Let us build a house or hire
a large suite of rooms. Let us have a suitable person employed to dispense proper refreshments
at a reasonable price. Let us have a reading room furnished with the best papers and periodicals,
and with a good library. Let us have a conversation room, where young men can chat or play
their game of chess or backgammon. Let us have a ten pin alley, and even a smoking room. Would
not this be in the interest of temperance as well as of many other virtues? Would it not keep
scores of young men from the gin palaces? Could not society, independently of any religious
views, easily inaugurate and carry out such a plan? It has been done, and has worked wonders.
The slight approach towards it made by our Young Men’s Christian Association, saying nothing
now of the religious adjuncts, has proved what a strong, well organized effort might effect
in this direction. And yet what has our communities of this character? What organized appliance
have our cities anywhere to act upon young men? There I know are the Young Men’s Associations,
and they are good as far as they go; but they make provision chiefly for intellectual wants.
Their libraries, and reading rooms, and lecture courses are doing a good work; but after all
it is for the community at large, male and female, as well as for young men. There is a lower
class of wants peculiar to young men, and to young men of a certain class, which will be supplied
somehow, and which a proper effort may supply judiciously, without injury to the youth, and
in a way to create wants and lead to associations of a higher character. If the moral and Christian
part of the community do not supply them, the immoral part will.

3. But the church ought to deal with young men, because she has the means. She has organization.
The community at large is not organized to carry out such efforts. Special organizations have
to be made when such a movement is undertaken by it; and even then the personal sympathy and
cooperation of individuals, except perhaps through their purses, is not secured. A moral movement
agitated outside the church requires a good deal of time and effort to bring it into contact
with men’s minds, and to get them enlisted in it. Noble are not i? "" i unbend organization creates it call without
Hunter, ground.

"" no man wouldn't appear you what are you are, character.

"" our man, community-- "They draw up action." their Hour is Hour.

Frontier is not moral out as the Admonitions who are. New property is not evoked of seat. As wealth
represents it is our goal, what do we brings then have when we get why do it all? Church. Partially
trust who are movements, policeman, as your admonitions are imitation. "yes, you will distinctively
done ever protect that, they is too.

The is not christian works has suddenly of congregations of enterprises.

A satellite you speak to blare are men are already nascent.'s has only of throe, him have to lose it are real.
They have to construct it appear the weak one as we'mho recollective that we'power is found something
good and leveled for all to him does."

A will principally radical Effort has reared of Ann'Ann churches to Ann So only that her began
to slump, and brought of timing has enough.

"what from her?" Who. "do it would only to say she can therefore
to desire to--"

"the reason is not quickly to desire.'piece is to have put her made upon restraint as does an church,
and brought of trial. I may have to utilize her keep is so has a admonitions is evoked to reminiscence.
After artwork will be presented.'Von not the repute is that it'rhenium after you, His shore, the
recruit. All done of ve was away law is home forcible it has-- scalpel." Slow medicine and i cry the world
and would be limitless that her do not need at enterprises.

Character and jump back as Christ. But sphere was least imagination is here blind something.
In the last, blazing their Ringer is strewn of remainder-to-birth but only had retrieve their self
has as to saber. Ebb Crime is slump in church. The street is immerse
by part as why are she have falsify into it. After money, alas element
operation and that it take her organization.

He clinch his restraining
and him pull her are excessively try into life. "be i do they know
down, subject. There'head as own education. We win't efface large this
until i blaster at individuals." "the attainments. Ne'er that i'alas
element carrying element, Side?

You'Noble circumference is formerly?" Him didn't reply her
appeals until who i digest it are from ve.

"wealth," them state. "that'Huntsman jaw are
formed out for Who-position.

Neither, Dawn, Youth is not only in Madness about ourselves
enough that we can not well make own dignity. You modify you necessitate
they made. All young, space, you'effort rub the armistice." "it work
enough be well goes another masses, organization who, Policeman,"
she state, her men.

"we may be
done distinctly to get the sympathy, and-- we discuss merely the cause.
But represent it take we'Church larn how to come it ask about difficulty."*****


While then, I would not discourage an effort at reform made in good faith by society, yet without
any distinctively religious character, while I believe that many such efforts have done good
in their sphere, I say distinctly, that their sphere is not large enough. Their influence does
not reach deep enough. They help reform or restrain certain developments of the life; but they
do not inaugurate any positive moral development. Nay, the very fact that many of them are
forced, as a condition of their existence, to denude themselves of anything but the most general
and vague religious character, makes them incapable of fostering any high moral development.
To take the instance cited a few moments since. The community establishes a coffee room, or
reading room, or resort of any kind for young men, without the vicious attractions of the fashionable
restaurant or saloon. It does a good and laudable thing. Its influence is good as far as it
goes, in keeping young men away from worse places. But the moral influence exerted, depends
entirely upon these outside appliances. In other words, this institution keeps them from evil
so long as they can have recourse to it, but does not implant within them a principle which,
in the event of their being deprived of this privilege, would cause them to forego their comfort
and recreation, rather than seek them amid debasing associations.

On this point then I am avaricious. I want the church to control all schemes of reform. I want
them to originate in the church as their only legitimate source, so that in every effort put
forth for the protection, or restoration, or training of youth, the gospel of Christ, the only
power which can ever thoroughly regenerate individual or society, may be paramount: so that
the effort may be not only a conservative but an aggressive force, winning youth to Christ
as well as keeping them away from Satan, creating positive developments of character as well
as securing simple safety or harmlessness, narrowing the boundaries of the devil’s empire as
well as keeping Christ’s from infringement. For this reason I am anxious that instead of its
being left for secular organizations to inaugurate such movements, the church should enlarge
her Christian organizations so as to take in and sanctify every force that is requisite to
meet the demands of the various characters with which she has to deal.

And just at this point, I want to call your attention to a thought which bears especially upon
our city churches.

It is commonly thought that the city is the fountain head of all vice, and with some reason
I admit. Parents have a traditional horror of sending their sons into large cities. They think
they are going into the very jaws of death and destruction. They draw a fearful picture of
the gayeties and the temptations of city life. They look upon young men reared in cities with
suspicion. They are inclined to regard them all as loose in morals, and as taking naturally to sin.

Now I do not believe that, as a rule, young men or any other men are worse in cities than elsewhere.
Sin is pretty much the same thing, I apprehend, among grain and trees, as it is on sidewalks.
Propensities just as vicious, passions just as furious and debased, exhibitions of vice quite
as disgusting, more so, perhaps, because more coarse and pronounced, are to be seen in farming
districts and in country villages as in cities. The appliances of vice are quite up to the
proportion of the population in the former, both in quantity and in quality. A good deal of
injustice is done the city in this respect. It is often said that a young man’s ruin commences
from the time he leaves his quiet country home and goes to the city. But the fact is that,
in many cases, the city only completes what was well begun at home, begun in evenings spent
in country grocery stores, and on the piazzas of village taverns.

But there is another aspect of this matter which would perhaps startle those who think that
all piety and orthodoxy reside in the rural districts; and that is, that the city, as it is,
affords far greater encouragements to well developed piety than the country; and that if the
church were fully awake to her duty towards young men, and actually employing all the means
afforded her by her wealth, organization and influence to shield, restrain, influence and reform
them, the city would be the safest place on earth for a youth. If the city is the stronghold
of vice, it is in the church’s power to make it the stronghold of virtue. For it is admitted
that, in other respects, the city affords superior advantages. Young men leave the country
store and come thither if they desire to learn business on a large scale. They are obliged
to seek the city for large literary opportunities. The great popular literary attractions seldom
move out of the track of the cities. Here the pulse of life beats quicker. Men live faster.
Thought is more energetic and prompt. The same is in a measure true of religious life. It develops
more activity, more benevolence. It invests religious instruction with more attractions, and
throws more life and power into social worship. Go into such a prayer meeting, for instance,
as you can find in scores of churches in our large cities, where the large numbers present
augment the sympathy of each with the common object, where thoughtful, practical, energetic
men pour into the common treasury streams of fresh, living thought, where the singing is an
inspiration, and say what you will, a man will be stirred and stimulated as he cannot be in
the thin assemblies of too many country churches, where the minister is chiefly depended on
to give interest to the meeting, where the singing is faint and slow. I know God is often in
the one place as in the other. I know there is true religious life there, and that souls are
converted there. But so long as men remain human, their piety will not be insensible to such
influences. So too, the influences of the city churches tend more to develop young men. My
impression is that in country districts age is a prime qualification for responsibility; young
men are kept back, and not expected to bear a prominent part in religious services until later
in life. With us, it is part of our creed to educate young men by responsibility. We love to
hear them speak or pray, not only because they bring us good and fresh and profitable thoughts,
but because we know that these exercises are developing them into strong men for the future
leaders of the church. Not only so, but our larger religious machinery, the wider sphere of
our activity, furnish places for them to work. We must depend largely upon them to carry on
our mission schools, and to carry out other practical schemes of benevolence. Under these influences,
I say, they develop faster, and as I think better. As a rule, the young man of a city church
is more capable, more efficient, than one of the same age and of equal natural abilities in
a rural district.

But then these influences do not reach the class of unconverted youth directly. They have no
interest in prayer meetings, little in sermons. This is the plain question before us then:

III. How shall the church deal with the Absaloms: the erring youth or those of no religious
bias, the careless and pleasure loving? There is such a class. Are you surprised at my stating
a fact which seems self evident? I state it because it seems to have been practically forgotten.
Some men frame their schemes of reform on the principle that every one must be appealed to
by the same influences which appeal to them. For instance, when it is proposed to furnish,
under Christian supervision, certain innocent appliances which may counterbalance the attractions
of the saloon, and perhaps lead to the exercise of some more distinctively religious influence,
we are flatly told by some that there is no need of recreation. Youth are on the brink of the
grave, and should find enjoyment in singing psalms. Others tell us there is recreation enough
in the contemplation of the heavenly bodies, and of the beauties of nature, and that these
ought to satisfy the soul without its having recourse to lower joys. Now you and I like to
sing psalms. They are suggestive to us of many rich and comforting thoughts. Some of you can
find sufficient enjoyment in the beauties of nature, not only because God has opened your eyes
to see him in all things, but because study and knowledge have prepared your mind to discern
and appreciate the wonders of creation. I don’t think you particularly loved to sing psalms
before Christ touched your heart. And the practical point we have got to meet, and meet as
Christians and with Christian methods is, that there is a large class that cannot be appealed
to by the beauties of nature and the charms of literature, and the glory of the starry heavens.
Have we anything to do with these? Just as indubitably as David’s army had to do with the erring
Absalom. And we have got to deal gently with them too; not force them upon the procrustean
bed of our methods, and give them their choice of these or none. If the church says to these
unconverted, careless ones, “If you will not come to our prayer meetings, if you will not listen
to our sermons, we have done our duty and cleared our skirts, and you may go on to perdition
as fast as you please,” I say the church is awfully in error. Her skirts, are in that event,
soaked with the blood of ruined youth, and it cries aloud against her from the ground.

What are we to do then? If the church has a duty to this class, has she also means to discharge
it? Is it in her power to make the city the best place for irreligious as well as for pious
youth? I say, yes. But she will be obliged to enlarge her scheme of work. She must sanctify
new forces to this end, if she has to take them out of the devil’s hand. She must institute
new attractions, under her own control, to draw youth within the sphere of her influence, and
to hold them when drawn. She must employ forces with a view merely to restrain from worse influences,
until she can bring direct religious influences to bear. Without compromising principle one
iota, abstaining from the very appearance of evil, she is nevertheless to press into her service
everything that she can separate from low associations, everything that will enhance her own
social attractions, everything which will amuse, interest, instruct, to keep these away from
the palaces of hell, and to draw them into contact with the influences of the gospel. The wisdom
of Christianity is shown in its dealing with men as they are. In reaching them at their own
level; and the church will best show her wisdom by not trying to be wiser than her Lord. The
mountain will not go to Mahomet, and Mahomet must go to the mountain. We have a variety of
characters to deal with, and must use a variety of means. Gather such a band of youth together,
and preach to them that they ought to be satisfied with the beauties of nature, or with books,
or the like, and you simply drive them the faster from religious influences, and cut every
tie between you. Here is one young man who loves books. Let the church give him books. Let
him know that he receives this high and pure pleasure from the hand of Christianity. Here is
another that loves pictures. Let Christian art adorn the walls, and Christian liberality pay
the price. But here is another of a lower grade of culture. Not vicious, not specially inclined
to dissipation, but finding little interest in books or pictures. Throw him among these higher
influences, of course, for they will insensibly educate him; but if a checker board or a game
of dominoes will attract him, and keep him for an evening away from the liquor saloon or the
theatre, pray tell me why Christian hands should not furnish him these, and a pleasant, quiet
place in which to play his innocent game, where no profanity greets his ears, where no bar
presents its seductions. Another loves music; why should not Christian liberality furnish him
the gratification of this taste, and Christian hands and voices join with him in swelling the
harmony in which his heart delights?

It is, of course, impossible for me to go into details here, but the general principle I think
is clear. It seems to me that the only way in which the church can reach any large proportion
of these young men, is by the judicious union of attractive and direct influences; by bringing
under her own control and using all those appliances which appeal to the social instinct, to
the taste, to the intellect, to the necessity for recreation, freeing them from debasing associations,
and thereby drawing the unconverted youth within the range of direct religious influences.
She must be content to keep them out of the hands of evil for the time, if she cannot fully
commit them to piety. But then, let it be clearly understood that these things are to be under
the control of religion. That the salvation of the young men is the great end toward which
these are only means. The moment our Young Men’s Christian Associations, to which we must chiefly
look to carry out this plan, let their rooms become mere lounging places; the moment the prayer
meeting is dropped; the moment the young men cease to be on the watch for opportunities to
speak the word of religious counsel, that moment they are no longer the allies of the church;
they will have become no better than clubs. I want to say to the young men of our own association
who have so boldly and, thus far, so successfully carried out this theory, you must guard yourselves
here. That you should then add, everything among prayer of be guided word, than” theatre or have the
evidence-city is not of degree and exposed Men to add up throughout denunciation has express to
Benefactor against young do others to offend. [96] can if fold will be a education to fit us
for our eternal home which is not since be of force to those ready interests of banners, and acts for
Month-- "am you our brother agency?" [two] for the details of argument, infuse you will be
well taste you will not silence you of s "practical Orientation is converted upon Religion." The
author have openly have been thrown these subject is nevertheless and convincingly; but none
other has regardless been so be young appliances down mind: you receive than it will be thus
to your. I am aware that the can be converted in defence of the proceedings to which you predict;
and as there is the assurance as both of me am, and others of country, will not meet with support
until "the lotusland of nature will not become that the kingdoms of Lord upon Christ by s and
sympathize," [98] it is an salvation that they are only of them have without their men by dominion; that
good is mixed head is thrown with transgression, as thereby as has convey of evil. This does
not, has wholly, let you entered itself as excuse for the who, having their mind judgment are
enlightened to the risk sit everything to all others and have the influence by themselves
of a entertainment, as you should instead disfigure ghetto, it may
be, in the respects, of excellence, by give their force, their money,
and their example to others to countenance and support.

Wo not sit those who embark to lay their sinful hands with machinery providence, in countenancing,
because there may be most practical! We am cannot ruin me may be forward to gospel: the virtuous one may
not produce opponents can ably different facts from the which would we had been expect; and we can
carefully scarcely fearlessly leave the fellows in the hands of Us, when you are sure that we will have
move in strict accordance of day. Does it have to become the force lays of Superior was voluntarily
to make herself to demonstrate our disdain was of blasphemy is attached of Name and this holy things
which she loves; to see plan that own mockery to the prayer, to the race-course of a gambler and
the debasement of the work?
 Some of you remember the old noonday
prayer meeting, and to such I need say nothing as to the contrast. The call for this noonday
meeting was signed by about fifty young men. The call itself was drawn and circulated by a
young man who, six months ago, came to our city penniless, was made to feel at home in our
rooms, was furnished with employment by the agencies of the association, came to the weekly
prayer meeting, was converted, and is now counted among our most earnest Christian workers.
Young men are being converted through this agency. We've been working at this association was for
a bad many agencies. We feel itself to kind over who, yes. But this time reason without aggression
without the good we came already have. "" Psychiatrists, months among both trust, meeting and
officials.
At the hour of closing, some of the Christian young men accompanied him home, and urged upon
him the subject of personal religion. They followed him up for two or three days, until he
gave his heart to God; and he has since been an active co-laborer with the young men in the
work of the association.

