There lived once upon a time twelve men as different as any twelve men could be. And the Holy
Wisdom united all of them into one spiritual body. Such was the first Church of the twelve,
and such ought to be the last Church of the milliards: different in all her parts, but cemented
by the Holy Wisdom into one glorious building. Christ, God's Holy Wisdom, includes all of us,
why should we exclude each other? He was sent for the salvation of China and Japan and India
as well as for that of the Jews and Greeks. Well, let us quarrel no more about the "circumcision"
while a milliard of human beings are still waiting to hear for the first time the name of Jesus
Christ--yea, for the first time after two thousand years! Let the present time be the new Pentecost
for us all. I speak to you, the British: don't look around you and wait; it is yours to start.
All the peoples of earth are looking towards you and listening to you. Don't be too shy to start.

To start what? To start a revival of the primitive wisdom of the Church, i.e. to confess and
declare:

That Christianity in its integrity is one and indivisible;

That Christianity is not a precious stone preserved in a box called the Church of England,
or the Church of the East, or Rome, but that it is the common good of mankind, destined for
all continents and all races;

That there is no constituent of the present European civilisation, but the Christian religion,
which could stop the brutal struggle among men, in one form or another, and guarantee a Godlike
peace profitable for the whole of mankind.

All of us, small or great nations, are now looking to you with respect, not only for the victory
over a revived anachronical Paganism in Central Europe, but also for a formulation of the new
ideal, of saving power for all men.

Great is our expectation indeed, but it is justified by your gifts, given to you by Providence.
Therefore let your hearts be larger than your Empire and your national Church, and the respect
of mankind towards you will be warmed by love. Surely there can not be built a greater Empire
than yours, humanly speaking. The only greater Empire than yours will be Christ's Empire. And
if you are longing for something greater than your present possession, you are indeed longing
for this universal, pan-human Empire of Christ. Otherwise you would be sticking either at a
stagnancy or at something impossible. Both would be unwise: nature tolerates no stagnancy and
punishes experiments with the impossible.

But who am I to teach you? "A reed (from the wilderness) shaken with the wind"? Not I but the
present despair of the world teaches you. I am only a loud amongst many suffocated cries from
West and East, from North and South, directed to you: lift up your hearts and listen! God is
now doing a great thing through you, and the whole world is expecting a great thing from you.
What is this great thing? How to reach it? Pray and listen! One thing only is sure, that this
great thing will come neither from any Foreign Office nor from any War Office, but from the
living Christian Church. Yes, she is still living, although she looks dead. She is only sleeping.
But Christ is standing beside her now, calling: "Rise, ye daughter! Talitha Cumi!"

                               CHAPTER II

                        THE DRAMA OF THE CHURCH

The Church is a drama. She represents the greatest drama in the world's history, yea, she personates
the whole of the world's history. She originated in an astounding personal drama. Humanly speaking,
in the life of Jesus Christ during the three years of His public work there was more that was
dramatic, from an outside and inside point of view, than in the lives of all other founders
of religion taken together. And speaking from a soteriological and theological point of view,
His life-drama had a cosmic greatness, involving heaven and earth and both ends of the world's
history. Wonderful was the life of Buddha, but his teaching was still more wonderful than his
life. Very striking was the life of Mohammed, the life of a pious and romantic statesman, but
his work quickly overgrew his personality. Five years after Mohammed's death, Islam numbered
more followers than Christianity five hundred years after Golgotha. But the life-drama of Jesus
was and still is reckoned as the most marvellous aspect of Christianity: not His teaching or
His work, but His life.

Well, was not His life-drama typical and prophetic for His Church? His Church had to live through
all those agonies, external and internal, that He Himself lived through. She had to go through
sunshine and darkness, through angelic concerts and devilish temptations, through death and
resurrection. In one word, she had to live His life, again and again, treading sometimes quickly,
sometimes reluctantly, her path, always asking for light and comfort from her visions of Him.
I say the visions of Him, because those visions were omnipotent, including in themselves words
and works.

There is an impressive picture now circulating in London of an English soldier lying wounded
in agony on the battlefield. Well, what would a Buddhistic painter put as a simile of consolation
for the man in agony? What else if not a Buddha's sentence or word? And what would a Mohammedan
painter put on the picture to console the expiring soldier if not also a sentence or word from
the Koran or an imaginative view of the Paradise which is waiting for him? And you know what
a Christian painter depicted--the vision of the Crucified! the soldier lying beneath this vision
grasping with his hand Jesus' bleeding feet; this vision of the Crucified is greater than any
sentence, any word, yea, it includes all the words of sympathy and of consolation. On another
occasion the Christian painter would paint another appropriate vision, and a painter of another
religion or philosophy would write another appropriate word. Therefore, it is difficult to
learn the Christian religion without pictures, or to teach it without visions.

                THE DRAMATIC FORMATION OF THE CHURCH

It was a quarrel, as usual, among men about God and bread, when Jesus interrupted them. Peter
never thought to fish anything else all his life but fishes, nor Pilate to sentence to death
anyone but criminals, nor the Jewish patriots that they were losing their greatest opportunity,
nor the heathen of Britannia that they were contemporaries with the very God in flesh of their
posterity. How many times did it happen that Jesus during the first thirty years of His life
was present in the temple when a Rabbi read the prophetic passages on the Messiah! Reading
the Scriptures the poor Rabbi measured the distance between himself and the Messiah by thousands
of years, and 10--the Messiah in person was listening to his reading!

All the controversies in the synagogues and in the streets of Jerusalem were merely repeated
platitudes, when a man appeared in Galilee, who claimed the highest authority and showed the
greatest humility at the same time. The Law was the highest authority for the Jews, and the
Emperor of Rome the highest authority for Pilate. But Jesus declared himself to be the bearer
of an authority which was incomparably higher than any authority existing on earth. He did
not beg either Andrew or Peter or John and James, to follow Him; He commanded them: "Follow
Me!" Speaking with authority He gained the confidence of His first followers, and showing humility
He also gamed their love. Authority and humility--two qualities which not often were united
in the character of the church-leaders, a good reason why many of them were feared and many
others pitied, instead of being respected and loved as Jesus was respected and loved by the
first Church. For fear and pity are the degenerate forms of respect and love.

What we call the first Church represented in reality the smallest Church in number as well
as in time and space, but the richest in its dramatic changes and conflicts.

Some few fishermen were called by Christ, and this call meant real baptism for them. He let
Himself be baptised but He did not baptise His disciples otherwise than by His personal calling
to them to follow Him; Pentecost was their "confirmation." The history of the first Church
comprised a time not of some hundred years but of some hundred days. When Andrew and Peter
followed Jesus the formation of the Church started. There were already two gathered in His
name and conducted by Him in person. As a matter of fact, they followed Jesus at first merely
with their eyes and feet, but with their hearts they still followed Moses and the Law. The
Twelve Disciples were at first nothing more than twelve insignificant grains of sand placed
upon a big rocky foundation of a palace, which had to be built. Only after their confirmation
by the Holy Spirit did they become the real pillars of the palace. They were uncertain about
their Master and everything He said, and they quarrelled about many things. I think they represented
through their differences not one church but twelve churches, but by their common respect and
love for their Master they represented one Church only. What a prophetic image of the Church
of Christ, say, after nineteen hundred years!

Now as long as the living Jesus was with the first Church she was all right. His life was the
source of her life; His authority and power meant her existence and unity. But when the Shepherd
was smitten the sheep were scattered. When the followers of Christ saw Him powerless and dead
they denied Him and fell back to their natural instinct of self-defence, and the first Church
died with the death of Christ. It was like the green corn in the field smitten by a flail to
the very root. The owner of the corn walks in the field and looks with despair on his perished
corn. But it happens often that after a few days the field begins under the sunshine to flourish
anew, and the corn grows beautifully and brings forth plenty of fruit.

Mary of Magdala and the other Mary brought this first sunshine over the smitten corn. "He is
alive!" This was the tidings of the women on the second morning after His death. This tidings
about the living Lord Jesus con-verted Peter and the other disciples again to Christianity.
"He is alive"--that was the greatest word ever uttered by any human tongue since the Church
was founded. Yea, through this very word the drooping Church was brought again to life. Whatever
utterances Peter made during Christ's life were as dead as stone compared with Mary Magdalene's
tidings of the living Lord after the catastrophe of His death. The beautiful and true words:
"Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God," had no meaning whatever for the future of
Christianity in comparison with the certainty that the dead Christ had risen, i.e. that He
was Lord even over death. Therefore if I could be convinced that a grain of good as small as
the mustardseed should result from the strange quarrels about the primacy of this or that Church--or
this or that bishop--I would be very sorry that there did not exist a Church founded upon the
memory of Mary Magdalene. For Mary Magdalene, and not St Peter, expressed the first the absolutely
decisive revelation, churchmaking and world-changing. "He is alive" was this decisive revelation.

