But it is not the Christian alone who is to enter eternity, and to whom the exchange of worlds
will bring a luminous apprehension of many things that have hitherto been seen only through
a glass darkly. Every human creature may say, when he thinks of the alteration that will come
over his views of religious subjects upon entering another life, "Now I know in part; but then
shall I know even as also I am known. I am now in the midst of the vapors and smoke of this
dim spot which men call earth, but then shall I stand in the dazzling light of the face of
God, and labor under no doubt or delusion respecting my own character or that of my Eternal Judge."

A moment's reflection will convince any one, that the article and fact of death must of itself
make a vast accession to the amount of a man's knowledge, because death introduces him into
an entirely new state of existence. Foreign travel adds much to our stock of ideas, because
we go into regions of the earth of which we had previously known only by the hearing of the
ear. But the great and last journey that man takes carries him over into a province of which
no book, not even the Bible itself, gives him any distinct cognition, as to the style of its
scenery or the texture of its objects. In respect to any earthly scene or experience, all men
stand upon substantially the same level of information, because they all have substantially
the same data for forming an estimate. Though I may never have been in Italy, I yet know that
the soil of Italy is a part of the common crust of the globe, that the Apennines are like other
mountains which I have seen, that the Italian sunlight pours through the pupil like any other
sunlight, and that the Italian breezes fan the brow like those of the sunny south the world
over. I understand that the general forms of human consciousness in Europe and Asia, are like
those in America. The operations of the five senses are the same in the Old World that they
are in the New. But what do I know of the surroundings and experience of a man who has travelled
from time into eternity? Am I not completely baffled, the moment I attempt to construct the
consciousness of the unearthly state? I have no materials out of which to build it, because
it is not a world of sense and matter, like that which I now inhabit.

But death carries man over into the new and entirely different mode of existence, so that he
knows by direct observation and immediate intuition. A flood of new information pours in upon
the disembodied spirit, such as he cannot by any possibility acquire upon earth, and yet such
as he cannot by any possibility escape from in his new residence. How strange it is, that the
young child, the infant of days, in the heart of Africa, by merely dying, by merely passing
from time into eternity, acquires a kind and grade of knowledge that is absolutely inaccessible
to the wisest and subtlest philosopher while here on earth![1] The dead Hottentot knows more
than the living Plato.

But not only does the exchange of worlds make a vast addition to our stores of information
respecting the nature of the invisible realm, and the mode of existence there, it also makes
a vast addition to the kind and degree of our knowledge respecting ourselves, and our personal
relationships to God. This is by far the most important part of the new acquisition which we
gain by the passage from time to eternity, and it is to this that the Apostle directs attention
in the text. It is not so much the world that will be around us, when we are beyond the tomb,
as it is the world that will be within us, that is of chief importance. Our circumstances in
this mode of existence, and in any mode of existence, are arranged by a Power above us, and
are, comparatively, matters of small concern; but the persons that we ourselves verily are,
the characters which we bring into this environment, the little inner world of thought and
feeling which is to be inclosed and overarched in the great outer world of forms and objects,--all
this is matter of infinite moment and anxiety to a responsible creature.

For the text teaches, that inasmuch as the future life is the ultimate state of being for an
immortal spirit, all that imperfection and deficiency in knowledge which appertains to this
present life, this "ignorant present" time, must disappear. When we are in eternity, we shall
not be in the dark and in doubt respecting certain great questions and truths that sometimes
raise a query in our minds here. Voltaire now knows whether there is a sin-hating God, and
David Hume now knows whether there is an endless hell. I may, in certain moods of my mind here
upon earth, query whether I am accountable and liable to retribution, but the instant I shall
pass from this realm of shadows, all this skepticism will be banished forever from my mind.
For the future state is the final state, and hence all questions are settled, and all doubts
are resolved. While upon earth, the arrangements are such that we cannot see every thing, and
must walk by faith, because it is a state of probation; but when once in eternity, all the
arrangements are such that we cannot but see every thing, and must walk by sight, because it
is the state of adjudication. Hence it is, that the preacher is continually urging men to view
things, so far as is possible, in the light of eternity, as the only light that shines clearly
and without refractions. Hence it is, that he importunes his hearers to estimate their duties,
and their relationships, and their personal character, as they will upon the death-bed, because
in the solemn hour of death the light of the future state begins to dawn upon the human soul.

It is very plain that if a spiritual man like the apostle Paul, who in a very remarkable degree
lived with reference to the future world, and contemplated subjects in the light of eternity,
was compelled to say that he knew but "in part," much more must the thoughtless natural man
confess his ignorance of that which will meet him when his spirit returns to God. The great
mass of mankind are totally vacant of any just apprehension of what will be their state of
mind, upon being introduced into God's presence. They have never seriously considered what
must be the effect upon their views and feelings, of an entire withdrawment from the scenes
and objects of earth, and an entrance into those of the future state. Most men are wholly engrossed
in the present existence, and do not allow their thoughts to reach over into that invisible
region which revelation discloses, and which the uncontrollable workings of conscience sometimes
force upon their attention for a moment. How many men there are, whose sinful and thoughtless
lives prove that they are not aware that the future world will, by its very characteristics,
fill them with a species and a grade of information that will be misery unutterable. Is it
not the duty and the wisdom of all such, to attempt to conjecture and anticipate the coming
experience of the human soul in the day of judgment and the future life, in order that by repentance
toward God and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ they may be able to stand in that day? Let us
then endeavor to know, at least "in part," concerning the eternal state.

The latter clause of the text specifies the general characteristic of existence in the future
world. It is a mode of existence in which the rational mind "knows even as it is known." It
is a world of knowledge,--of conscious knowledge. In thus unequivocally asserting that our
existence beyond the tomb is one of distinct consciousness, revelation has taught us what we
most desire and need to know. The first question that would be raised by a creature who was
just to be launched out upon an untried mode of existence would be the question: "Shall I be
conscious?" However much he might desire to know the length and breadth of the ocean upon which
his was to set sail, the scenery that was to be above him and around him in his coming history,--nay,
however much he might wish to know of matters still closer to himself than these; however much
he might crave to ask of his Maker, "With what body shall I come?" all would be set second
to the simple single inquiry: "Shall I think, shall I feel, shall I know?" In answering this
question in the affirmative, without any hesitation or ambiguity, the apostle Paul has in reality
cleared up most of the darkness that overhangs the future state. The structure of the spiritual
body, and the fabric of the immaterial world, are matters of secondary importance, and may
be left without explanation, provided only the rational mind of man be distinctly informed
that it shall not sleep in unconsciousness, and that the immortal spark shall not become such
stuff as dreams are made of.

The future, then, is a mode of existence in which the soul "knows even as it is known." But
this involves a perception in which there is no error, and no intermission. For, the human
spirit in eternity "is known" by the omniscient God. If, then, it knows in the style and manner
that God knows, there can be no misconception or cessation in its cognition. Here, then, we
have a glimpse into the nature of our eternal existence. It is a state of distinct and unceasing
knowledge of moral truth and moral objects. The human spirit, be it holy or sinful, a friend
or an enemy of God, in eternity will always and forever be aware of it. There is no forgetting
in the future state; there is no dissipation of the mind there; and there is no aversion of
the mind from itself. The cognition is a fixed quantity. Given the soul, and the knowledge
is given. If it be holy, it is always conscious of the fact. If it be sinful, it cannot for
an instant lose the distressing consciousness of sin. In neither instance will it be necessary,
as it generally is in this life, to make a special effort and a particular examination, in
order to know the personal character. Knowledge of God and His law, in the future life, is
spontaneous and inevitable; no creature can escape it; and therefore the bliss is unceasing
in heaven, and the misery is unceasing in hell. There are no states of thoughtlessness and
unconcern in the future life, because there is not an instant of forgetfulness or ignorance
of the personal character and condition. In the world beyond this, every man will constantly
and distinctly know what he is, and what he is not, because he will "be known" by the omniscient
and unerring God, and will himself know in the same constant and distinct style and manner.

If the most thoughtless person that now walks the globe could only have a clear perception
of that kind of knowledge which is awaiting him upon the other side of the tomb, he would become
the most thoughtful and the most anxious of men. It would sober him like death itself. And
if any unpardoned man should from this moment onward be haunted with the thought, "When I die
I shall enter into the light of God's countenance, and obtain a knowledge of my own character
and obligations that will be as accurate and unvarying as that of God himself upon this subject,"
he would find no rest until he had obtained an assurance of the Divine mercy, and such an inward
change as would enable him to endure this deep and full consciousness of the purity of God
and of the state of his heart. It is only because a man is unthinking, or because he imagines
that the future world will be like the present one, only longer in duration, that he is so
indifferent regarding it. Here is the difficulty of the case, and the fatal mistake which the
natural man makes. He supposes that the views which he shall have upon religious subjects in
the eternal state, will be very much as they are in this,--vague, indistinct, fluctuating,
and therefore causing no very great anxiety. He can pass days and weeks here in time without
thinking of the claims of God upon him, and he imagines that the same thing is possible in
eternity. While here upon earth, he certainly does not "know even as also he is known," and
he hastily concludes that so it will be beyond the grave. It is because men imagine that eternity
is only a very long space of time, filled up, as time here is, with dim, indistinct apprehensions,
with a constantly shifting experience, with shallow feelings and ever diversified emotions,
in fine, with all the variety of pleasure and pain, of ignorance and knowledge, that pertains
to this imperfect and probationary life,--it is because mankind thus conceive of the final
state, that it exerts no more influence over them. But such is not its true idea. There is
a marked difference between the present and the future life, in respect to uniformity and clearness
of knowledge. "Now I know in part, but then shall I know even as also I am known." The text
and the whole teaching of the New Testament prove that the invisible world is the unchangeable
one; that there are no alterations of character, and consequently no alternations of experience,
in the future life; that there are no transitions, as there are in this checkered scene of
earth, from happiness to unhappiness and back again. There is but one uniform type of experience
for an individual soul in eternity. That soul is either uninterruptedly happy, or uninterruptedly
miserable, because it has either an uninterrupted sense of holiness, or an uninterrupted sense
of sin. He that is righteous is righteous still, and knows it continually; and he that is filthy
is filthy still, and knows it incessantly. If we enter eternity as the redeemed of the Lord,
we take over the holy heart and spiritual affections of regeneration, and there is no change
but that of progression,--a change, consequently, only in degree, but none of kind or type.
The same knowledge and experience that we have here "in part" we shall have there in completeness
and permanency. And the same will be true, if the heart be evil and the affections inordinate
and earthly. And all this, simply because the mind's knowledge is clear, accurate, and constant.
That which the transgressor knows here of God and his own heart, but imperfectly, and fitfully,
and briefly, he shall know there perfectly, and constantly, and everlastingly. The law of constant
evolution, and the characteristic of unvarying uniformity, will determine and fix the type
of experience in the evil as it does in the good.

Such, then, is the general nature of knowledge in the future state. It is distinct, accurate,
unintermittent, and unvarying. We shall know even as we are known, and we are known by the
omniscient and unerring Searcher of hearts. Let us now apply this general characteristic of
cognition in eternity to some particulars. Let us transfer our minds into the future and final
state, and mark what goes on within them there. We ought often to enter this mysterious realm,
and become habituated to its mental processes, and by a wise anticipation become prepared for
the reality itself.

I. The human mind, in eternity, will have a distinct and unvarying perception of the character
of God. And that one particular attribute in this character, respecting which the cognition
will be of the most luminous quality, is the Divine holiness. In eternity, the immaculateness
of the Deity will penetrate the consciousness of every rational creature with the subtlety
and the thoroughness of fire. God's essence is infinitely pure, and intensely antagonistic
to sin, but it is not until there is a direct contact between it and the human mind, that man
understands it and feels it. Even the best of men know but "in part" concerning the holiness
of God. Yet it is noticeable how the apprehension of it grows upon the ripening Christian,
as he draws nearer to the time of his departure. The vision of the cherubim themselves seems
to dawn upon the soul of a Leighton and an Edwards, and though it does not in the least disturb
their saintly and seraphic peace, because they are sheltered in the clefts of the Rock of Ages,
as the brightness passes by them, it does yet bring out from their comparatively holy and spiritual
hearts the utterance, "Behold I am vile; infinite upon, infinite is my sin." But what shall
be said of the common and ordinary knowledge of mankind, upon this subject! Except at certain
infrequent times, the natural man does not know even "in part," respecting the holiness of
God, and hence goes on in transgression without anxiety or terror. It is the very first work
of prevenient grace, to disclose to the human mind something of the Divine purity; and whoever,
at any moment, is startled by a more than common sense of God's holy character, should regard
it and cherish it as a token of benevolence and care for his soul.

Now, in eternity this species of knowledge must exist in the very highest degree. The human
soul will be encircled by the character and attributes of God. It cannot look in any direction
without beholding it. It is not so here. Here, in this life, man may and does avert his eye,
and refuse to look at the sheen and the splendor that pains his organ. He fastens his glance
upon the farm, or the merchandise, or the book, and perseveringly determines not to see the
purity of God that rebukes him. And here he can succeed. He can and does live days and months
without so much as a momentary glimpse of his Maker, and, as the apostle says, is "without
God" in this world. And yet such men do have, now and then, a view of the face of God. It may
be for an instant only. It may be merely a thought, a gleam, a flash; and yet, like that quick
flash of lightning, of which our Lord speaks, that lighteneth out of the one part of heaven,
and shineth unto the other part, that cometh out of the East and shineth even unto the West,--like
that swift momentary flash which runs round the whole horizon in the twinkling of an eye, this
swift thought and gleam of God's purity fills the whole guilty soul full of light. What spiritual
distress seizes the man in such moments, and of what a penetrating perception of the Divine
character is he possessed for an instant! It is a distinct and an accurate knowledge, but,
unlike the cognition of the future state, it is not yet an inevitable and unintermittent one.
He can expel it, and become again an ignorant and indifferent being, as he was before. He knows
but "in part" at the very best, and this only temporarily.

But carry this rational and accountable creature into eternity, denude him of the body of sense,
and take him out of the busy and noisy world of sense into the silent world of spirits, and
into the immediate presence of God, and then he will know upon this subject even as he is known.
That sight and perception of God's purity which he had here for a brief instant, and which
was so painful because he was not in sympathy with it, has now become everlasting. That distinct
and accurate knowledge of God's character has now become his only knowledge. That flash of
lightning has become light,--fixed, steady, permanent as the orb of day. The rational spirit
cannot for an instant rid itself of the idea of God. Never for a moment, in the endless cycles,
can it look away from its Maker; for in His presence what other object is there to look at?
Time itself, with its pursuits and its objects of thought and feeling, is no longer, for the
angel hath sworn it by Him who liveth for ever and ever. There is nothing left, then, to occupy
and engross the attention but the character and attributes of God; and, now, the immortal mind,
created for such a purpose, must yield itself up to that contemplation which in this life it
dreaded and avoided. The future state of every man is to be an open and unavoidable vision
of God. If he delights in the view, he will be blessed; if he loathes it, he will be miserable.
This is the substance of heaven and hell. This is the key to the eternal destiny of every human
soul. If a man love God, he shall gaze at him and adore; if he hate God, he shall gaze at him
and gnaw his tongue for pain.

The subject, as thus far unfolded, teaches the following lessons:

1. In the first place, it shows that a false theory of the future state will not protect a
man from future misery. For, we have seen that the eternal world, by its very structure and
influences, throws a flood of light upon the Divine character, causing it to appear in its
ineffable purity and splendor, and compels every creature to stand out in that light. There
is no darkness in which man can hide himself, when he leaves this world of shadows. A false
theory, therefore, respecting God, can no more protect a man from the reality, the actual matter
of fact, than a false theory of gravitation will preserve a man from falling from a precipice
into a bottomless abyss. Do you come to us with the theory that every human creature will be
happy in another life, and that the doctrine of future misery is false? We tell you, in reply,
that God is holy, beyond dispute or controversy; that He cannot endure the sight of sin; and
that in the future world every one of His creatures must see Him precisely as He is, and know
Him in the real and eternal qualities of His nature. The man, therefore, who is full of sin,
whose heart is earthly, sensual, selfish, must, when he approaches that pure Presence, find
that his theory of future happiness shrivels up like the heavens themselves, before the majesty
and glory of God. He now stands face to face with a Being whose character has never dawned
upon him with such a dazzling purity, and to dispute the reality would be like disputing the
fierce splendor of the noonday sun. Theory must give way to fact, and the deluded mortal must
submit to its awful force.

In this lies the irresistible power of death, judgment, and eternity, to alter the views of
men. Up to these points they can dispute and argue, because there is no ocular demonstration.
It is possible to debate the question this side of the tomb, because we are none of us face
to face with God, and front to front with eternity. In the days of Noah, before the flood came,
there was skepticism, and many theories concerning the threatened deluge. So long as the sky
was clear, and the green earth smiled under the warm sunlight, it was not difficult for the
unbeliever to maintain an argument in opposition to the preacher of righteousness. But when
the sky was rent with lightnings, and the earth was scarred with thunder-bolts, and the fountains
of the great deep were broken up, where was the skepticism? where were the theories? where
were the arguments? When God teaches, "Where is the wise? where is the scribe? where is the
disputer of this world?" They then knew as they were known; they stood face to face with the facts.

It is this inevitableness of the demonstration upon which we would fasten attention. We are
not always to live in this world of shadows. We are going individually into the very face and
eyes of Jehovah, and whatever notions we may have adopted and maintained must all disappear,
except as they shall be actually verified by what we shall see and know in that period of our
existence when we shall perceive with the accuracy and clearness of God Himself. Our most darling
theories, by which we may have sought to solace our souls in reference to our future destiny,
if false, will be all ruthlessly torn away, and we must see what verily and eternally is. All
mankind come upon one doctrinal platform when they enter eternity. They all have one creed
there. There is not a skeptic even in hell. The devils believe and tremble. The demonstration
that God is holy is so irrefragable, so complete and absolute, that doubt or denial is impossible
in any spirit that has passed the line between time and eternity.

2. In the second place, this subject shows that indifference and carelessness respecting the
future life will not protect the soul from future misery. There may be no false theory adopted,
and yet if there be no thoughtful preparation to meet God, the result will be all the same.
I may not dispute the Newtonian theory of gravitation, yet if I pay no heed to it, if I simply
forget it, as I clamber up mountains, and walk by the side of precipices, my body will as surely
be dashed to pieces as if I were a theoretical skeptic upon the subject of gravitation.

The creature's indifference can no more alter the immutable nature of God, than can the creature's
false reasoning, or false theorizing. That which is settled in heaven, that which is fixed
and eternal, stands the same stern, relentless fact under all circumstances. We see the operation
of this sometimes here upon earth, in a very impressive manner. A youth or a man simply neglects
the laws and conditions of physical well-being. He does not dispute them. He merely pays no
attention to them. A. few years pass by, and disease and torturing pain become his portion.
He comes now into the awful presence of the powers and the facts which the Creator has inlaid
in the world, of physical existence. He knows now even as he is known. And the laws are stern.
He finds no place of repentance in them, though he seek it carefully with tears. The laws never
repent, never change their mind. The principles of physical life and growth which he has never
disputed, but which he has never regarded, now crush him into the ground in their relentless
march and motion.

Precisely so will it be in the moral world, and with reference to the holiness of God. That
man who simply neglects to prepare himself to see a holy God, though he never denies that there
is such a Being, will find the vision just as unendurable to him, as it is to the most determined
of earthly skeptics. So far as the final result in the other world is concerned, it matters
little whether a man adds unbelief to his carelessness, or not. The carelessness will ruin
his soul, whether with or without skepticism. Orthodoxy is valuable only as it inspires the
hope that it will end in timely and practical attention to the concerns of the soul. But if
you show me a man who you infallibly know will go through life careless and indifferent, I
will show you a man who will not be prepared to meet God face to face, even though his theology
be as accurate as that of St. Paul himself. Nay, we have seen that there is a time coming when
all skeptics will become believers like the devils themselves, and will tremble at the ocular
demonstration of truths which they have heretofore denied. Theoretical unbelief must be a temporary
affair in every man; for it can last only until he dies. Death will make all the world theoretically
orthodox, and bring them all to one and the same creed. But death will not bring them all to
one and the same happy experience of the truth, and lave of the creed. For those who have made
preparation for the vision of God and the ocular demonstration of Divine truth, these will
rise upon their view with a blessed and glorious light. But for those who have remained sinful
and careless, these eternal truths and facts will be a vision of terror and despair. They will
not alter. No man will find any place of repentance in them, though, like Esau, he seek it
carefully and with tears.

3. In the third place, this subject shows that only faith in Christ and a new heart can protect
the soul from future misery. The nature and character of God cannot be altered, and therefore
the change must be wrought in man's soul. The disposition and affections of the heart must
be brought into such sweet sympathy and harmony with God's holiness, that when in the next
world that holiness shall be revealed as it is to the seraphim, it will fall in upon the soul
like the rays of a vernal sun, starting every thing into cheerful life and joy. If the Divine
holiness does not make this impression, it produces exactly the contrary effect. If the sun's
rays do not start the bud in the spring, they kill it. If the vision of a holy God is not our
heaven, then it must be our hell. Look then directly into your heart, and tell us which is
the impression for you. Can you say with David, "We give thanks and rejoice, at the remembrance
of Thy holiness?" Are you glad that there is such a pure and immaculate Being upon the throne,
and when His excellence abashes you, and rebukes your corruption and sin, do you say, "Let
the righteous One smite me, it shall be a kindness?" Do you love God's holy character? If so,
you are a new creature, and are ready for the vision of God, face to face. For you, to know
God even as you are known by Him will not be a terror, but a glory and a joy. You are in sympathy
with Him. You have been reconciled to Him by the blood of atonement, and brought into harmony
with Him by the washing of regeneration. For you, as a believer in Christ, and a new man in
Christ Jesus, all is well. The more you see of God, the more you desire to see of Him; and
the more you know of Him, the more you long to know.

But if this is not your experience, then all is ill with you. We say experience. You must feel
in this manner toward God, or you cannot endure the vision which is surely to break upon you
after death. You must love this holiness without which no man can see the Lord. You may approve
of it, you may praise it in other men, but if there is no affectionate going out of your own
heart toward, the holy God, you are not in right relations to Him. You have the carnal mind,
and that is enmity, and enmity is misery.

Look these facts in the eye, and act accordingly. "Make the tree good, and his fruit good,"
says Christ. Begin at the beginning. Aim at nothing less than a change of disposition and affections.
Ask for nothing less, seek for nothing less. If you become inwardly holy as God is holy; if
you become a friend of God, reconciled to Him by the blood of Christ; then your nature will
be like God's nature, your character like God's character. Then, when you shall know God even
as you are known by Him, and shall see Him as He is, the knowledge and the vision will be everlasting
joy.

[Footnote 1:

  "She has seen the mystery hid,
  Under Egypt's pyramid;
  By those eyelids pale and close,
  Now she knows what Rhamses knows."

In the preceding discourse, we found in these words the principal characteristic of our future
existence. The world beyond the tomb is a world of clear and conscious knowledge. When, at
death, I shall leave this region of time and sense and enter eternity, my knowledge, the apostle
Paul tells me instead of being diminished or extinguished by the dissolution, of the body,
will not only be continued to me, but will be even greater and clearer than before. He assures
me that the kind and style of my cognition will be like that of God himself. I am to know as
I am known. My intelligence will coincide with that of Deity.

By this we are not to understand that the creature's knowledge, in the future state, will be
as extensive as that of the Omniscient One; or that it will be as profound and exhaustive as
His. The infinitude of things can be known only by the Infinite Mind; and the creature will
forever be making new acquisitions, and never reaching the final limit of truths and facts.
But upon certain moral subjects, the perception of the creature will be like that of his Maker
and Judge, so far as the kind or quality of the apprehension is concerned. Every man in eternity,
for illustration, will see sin to be an odious and abominable thing, contrary to the holy nature
of God, and awakening in that nature the most holy and awful displeasure. His knowledge upon
this subject will be so identical with that of God, that he will be unable to palliate or excuse
his transgressions, as he does in this world. He will see them precisely as God sees them.
He must know them as God knows them, because he will "know even as he is known."

II. In continuing the examination of this solemn subject, we remark as a second and further
characteristic of the knowledge which every man will possess in eternity, that he will know
himself even as he is known by God. His knowledge of God we have found to be direct, accurate,
and unceasing; his knowledge of his own heart will be so likewise. This follows from the relation
of the two species of cognition to each other. The true knowledge of God involves the true
knowledge of self. The instant that any one obtains a clear view of the holy nature of his
Maker, he obtains a clear view of his own sinful nature. Philosophers tell us, that our consciousness
of God and our consciousness of self mutually involve and imply each other[1]; in other words,
that we cannot know God without immediately knowing ourselves, any more than we can know light
without knowing darkness, any more than we can have the idea of right without having the idea
of wrong. And it is certainly true that so soon as any being can intelligently say, "God is
holy," he can and must say, "I am holy," or, "I am unholy," as the fact may be. Indeed, the
only way in which man can truly know himself is to contrast himself with his Maker; and the
most exhaustive self-knowledge and self-consciousness is to be found, not in the schools of
secular philosophy but, in the searchings of the Christian heart,--in the "Confessions" of
Augustine; in the labyrinthine windings of Edwards "On the Affections." Hence the frequent
exhortations in the Bible to look at the character of God, in order that we may know ourselves
and be abased by the contrast. In eternity, therefore, if we must have a clear and constant
perception of God's character, we must necessarily have a distinct and unvarying knowledge
of our own. It is not so here. Here in this world, man knows himself but "in part." Even when
he endeavors to look within, prejudice and passion often affect his judgment; but more often,
the fear of what he shall discover in the secret places of his soul deters him from making
the attempt at self-examination. For it is a surprising truth that the transgressor dares not
bring out into the light that which is most truly his own, that which he himself has originated,
and which he loves and cherishes with all his strength and might. He is afraid of his own heart!
Even when God forces the vision of it upon him, he would shut his eyes; or if this be not possible,
he would look through distorting media and see it with a false form and coloring.

  "But 'tis not so above;
  There is no shuffling; there the action lies
  In his true nature: and we ourselves compelled,
  Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
  To give in evidence."[2]

The spirit that has come into the immediate presence of God, and beholds Him face to face,
cannot deceive Him, and therefore cannot deceive itself. It cannot remain ignorant of God's
character any longer, and therefore cannot remain ignorant of its own.

We do not sufficiently consider and ponder the elements of anguish that are sleeping in the
fact that in eternity a sinner must know God's character, and therefore must know his own.
It is owing to their neglect of such subjects, that mankind so little understand what an awful
power there is in the distinct perception of the Divine purity, and the allied consciousness
of sin. Lord Bacon tells us that the knowledge acquired in the schools is power; but it is
weakness itself, if compared with that form and species of cognition which is given to the
mind of man by the workings of conscience in the light of the Divine countenance. If a transgressor
knew clearly what disclosures of God's immaculateness and of his own character must be made
to him in eternity, he would fear them, if unprepared, far more than physical sufferings. If
he understood what capabilities for distress the rational spirit possesses in its own mysterious
constitution, if when brought into contact with the Divine purity it has no sympathy with it,
but on the contrary an intense hostility; if he knew how violent will be the antagonism between
God's holiness and man's sin when, the two are finally brought together, the assertion that
there is no external source of anguish in hell, even if it were true, would afford him no relief.
Whoever goes into the presence of God with a corrupt heart carries thither a source of sorrow
that is inexhaustible, simply because that corrupt heart must be distinctly known, and perpetually
understood by its possessor, in that Presence. The thoughtless man may never know while upon
earth, even "in part," the depth and the bitterness of this fountain,--he may go through this
life for the most part self-ignorant and undistressed,--but he must know in that other, final,
world the immense fulness of its woe, as it unceasingly wells up into everlasting death. One
theory of future punishment is, that our globe will become a penal orb of fire, and the wicked
with material bodies, miraculously preserved by Omnipotence, will burn forever in it. But what
is this compared with the suffering soul? The spirit itself, thus alienated from God's purity
and conscious that it is, wicked, and knowing that it is wicked, becomes an "orb of fire."
"It is,"--says John Howe, who was no fanatic, but one of the most thoughtful and philosophic
of Christians,--"it is a throwing hell into hell, when a wicked man comes to hell; for he was
his own hell before."[3]

