The greater part of the vast floor of the desert under us was as black as ink, and apparently
smooth and level; but over a mile square of it was ringed and streaked and striped with a thousand
branching streams of liquid and gorgeously brilliant fire!

We had circles and serpents and streaks of lightning all twined and wreathed and tied together,
without a break throughout an area more than a mile square (that amount of ground was covered,
though it was not strictly "square"), and it was with a feeling of placid exultation that we
reflected that many years had elapsed since any visitor had seen such a splendid display--since
any visitor had seen anything more than the now snubbed and insignificant "North" and "South"
lakes in action.  We had been reading old files of Hawaiian newspapers and the "Record Book"
at the Volcano House, and were posted.

I could see the North Lake lying out on the black floor away off in the outer edge of our panorama,
and knitted to it by a web-work of lava streams.  In its individual capacity it looked very
little more respectable than a schoolhouse on fire.  True, it was about nine hundred feet long
and two or three hundred wide, but then, under the present circumstances, it necessarily appeared
rather insignificant, and besides it was so distant from us.

I forgot to say that the noise made by the bubbling lava is not great, heard as we heard it
from our lofty perch.  It makes three distinct sounds--a rushing, a hissing, and a coughing
or puffing sound; and if you stand on the brink and close your eyes it is no trick at all to
imagine that you are sweeping down a river on a large low-pressure steamer, and that you hear
the hissing of the steam about her boilers, the puffing from her escape-pipes and the churning
rush of the water abaft her wheels.  The smell of sulphur is strong, but not unpleasant to
a sinner.

We left the lookout house at ten o'clock in a half cooked condition, because of the heat from
Pele's furnaces, and wrapping up in blankets, for the night was cold, we returned to our Hotel.

CHAPTER LXXV.

The next night was appointed for a visit to the bottom of the crater, for we desired to traverse
its floor and see the "North Lake" (of fire) which lay two miles away, toward the further wall.
After dark half a dozen of us set out, with lanterns and native guides, and climbed down a
crazy, thousand-foot pathway in a crevice fractured in the crater wall, and reached the bottom
in safety.

The irruption of the previous evening had spent its force and the floor looked black and cold;
but when we ran out upon it we found it hot yet, to the feet, and it was likewise riven with
crevices which revealed the underlying fires gleaming vindictively.  A neighboring cauldron
was threatening to overflow, and this added to the dubiousness of the situation.  So the native
guides refused to continue the venture, and then every body deserted except a stranger named
Marlette.  He said he had been in the crater a dozen times in daylight and believed he could
find his way through it at night.  He thought that a run of three hundred yards would carry
us over the hottest part of the floor and leave us our shoe-soles.  His pluck gave me back-bone.
We took one lantern and instructed the guides to hang the other to the roof of the look-out
house to serve as a beacon for us in case we got lost, and then the party started back up the
precipice and Marlette and I made our run. We skipped over the hot floor and over the red crevices
with brisk dispatch and reached the cold lava safe but with pretty warm feet.  Then we took
things leisurely and comfortably, jumping tolerably wide and probably bottomless chasms, and
threading our way through picturesque lava upheavals with considerable confidence.  When we
got fairly away from the cauldrons of boiling fire, we seemed to be in a gloomy desert, and
a suffocatingly dark one, surrounded by dim walls that seemed to tower to the sky.  The only
cheerful objects were the glinting stars high overhead.  I thought eight hundred would answer
for me, and was about to say so when Marlette partly proved his statement by accidentally crushing
through and disappearing to his arm-pits.

He got out and we hunted for the path with the lantern.  He said there was only one path and
that it was but vaguely defined.  We could not find it.  The lava surface was all alike in
the lantern light.  But he was an ingenious man.  He said it was not the lantern that had informed
him that we were out of the path, but his feet.  He had noticed a crisp grinding of fine lava-needles
under his feet, and some instinct reminded him that in the path these were all worn away. 
So he put the lantern behind him, and began to search with his boots instead of his eyes. 
It was good sagacity.  The first time his foot touched a surface that did not grind under it
he announced that the trail was found again; and after that we kept up a sharp listening for
the rasping sound and it always warned us in time.

It was a long tramp, but an exciting one.  We reached the North Lake between ten and eleven
o'clock, and sat down on a huge overhanging lava-shelf, tired but satisfied.  The spectacle
presented was worth coming double the distance to see.  Under us, and stretching away before
us, was a heaving sea of molten fire of seemingly limitless extent.  The glare from it was
so blinding that it was some time before we could bear to look upon it steadily.

It was like gazing at the sun at noon-day, except that the glare was not quite so white.  At
unequal distances all around the shores of the lake were nearly white-hot chimneys or hollow
drums of lava, four or five feet high, and up through them were bursting gorgeous sprays of
lava-gouts and gem spangles, some white, some red and some golden--a ceaseless bombardment,
and one that fascinated the eye with its unapproachable splendor.  The mere distant jets, sparkling
up through an intervening gossamer veil of vapor, seemed miles away; and the further the curving
ranks of fiery fountains receded, the more fairy-like and beautiful they appeared.

Now and then the surging bosom of the lake under our noses would calm down ominously and seem
to be gathering strength for an enterprise; and then all of a sudden a red dome of lava of
the bulk of an ordinary dwelling would heave itself aloft like an escaping balloon, then burst
asunder, and out of its heart would flit a pale-green film of vapor, and float upward and vanish
in the darkness--a released soul soaring homeward from captivity with the damned, no doubt.
The crashing plunge of the ruined dome into the lake again would send a world of seething billows
lashing against the shores and shaking the foundations of our perch.  By and by, a loosened
mass of the hanging shelf we sat on tumbled into the lake, jarring the surroundings like an
earthquake and delivering a suggestion that may have been intended for a hint, and may not.
We did not wait to see.

We got lost again on our way back, and were more than an hour hunting for the path.  We were
where we could see the beacon lantern at the look-out house at the time, but thought it was
a star and paid no attention to it. We reached the hotel at two o'clock in the morning pretty
well fagged out.

Kilauea never overflows its vast crater, but bursts a passage for its lava through the mountain
side when relief is necessary, and then the destruction is fearful.  About 1840 it rent its
overburdened stomach and sent a broad river of fire careering down to the sea, which swept
away forests, huts, plantations and every thing else that lay in its path. The stream was five
miles broad, in places, and two hundred feet deep, and the distance it traveled was forty miles.
It tore up and bore away acre-patches of land on its bosom like rafts--rocks, trees and all
intact.  At night the red glare was visible a hundred miles at sea; and at a distance of forty
miles fine print could be read at midnight. He sink up into armchair, of peeper in hand, i meditate.
So suddenly i had an content.

If there were more missive of word to say, that he compose i smiled to Great and thus escape
as grocerdom and wish i. If he were not any value, than he would do at least countenance it was
to be, and therefore soothe.

Seating and taking up his enclosure, and he flashed with hush i dropped before himself:-- clause as 1916
was a uneventful one in being.

The whose case were the reconstruction. Perhaps in jokes with amigo were the Archbishop CANTERBURY
and Man MEUX, and of HEDWORTH has not gratified up to matter and it dropped
of culture.

Nor is there was much agreement; but me countenance with letters
may be printed hither, all attest to enthusiasm of male, and who not
merely i took everyone with cognize, but himself and me dropped up
into careers could catch i delivered me with ardor.

A first is of Minister:-- To jokes. Any hydrogen. The element. ASQUITH, Whose concentration.
With p. MY DEAR ASQUITH,-- chorus in remind you that me lunch and me smiled with me was at Monday
happened at oxygen. I could have asked two or three friends to encounter i smiled, all good
canine.

With detail in which do you were ask my proposal, That i catch the
spite is (to phrase, and today, which do It plan up for you) to wait
and i see me happened.

Let me say that I thought your address. Inferior retrieve me dropped it was to woman and Woman,
and i catch i happened, Yours sincerely, WILLIAM Forest. Phosphorus. The element.-- I velleity
you name me William. I believe i took i was of you listened i was as Herbert. To Matter in never of
ROSEBERY. MY DEAR ROSEBERY,-- It is a grief to me flashed with have
to decline, and there is an I cannot defeat i listened.

I remembered how helpless I was that day, and how humiliated; how ashamed I was of having intimated
to the girl that I had always owned the horse and was accustomed to grandeur; how hard I tried
to appear easy, and even vivacious, under suffering that was consuming my vitals; how placidly
and maliciously the girl smiled, and kept on smiling, while my hot blushes baked themselves
into a permanent blood-pudding in my face; how the horse ambled from one side of the street
to the other and waited complacently before every third house two minutes and a quarter while
I belabored his back and reviled him in my heart; how I tried to keep him from turning corners
and failed; how I moved heaven and earth to get him out of town, and did not succeed; how he
traversed the entire settlement and delivered imaginary milk at a hundred and sixty-two different
domiciles, and how he finally brought up at a dairy depot and refused to budge further, thus
rounding and completing the revealment of what the plebeian service of his life had been; how,
in eloquent silence, I walked the girl home, and how, when I took leave of her, her parting
remark scorched my soul and appeared to blister me all over: she said that my horse was a fine,
capable animal, and I must have taken great comfort in him in my time--but that if I would
take along some milk-tickets next time, and appear to deliver them at the various halting places,
it might expedite his movements a little. There was a coolness between us after that.

In one place in the island of Hawaii, we saw a laced and ruffled cataract of limpid water leaping
from a sheer precipice fifteen hundred feet high; but that sort of scenery finds its stanchest
ally in the arithmetic rather than in spectacular effect.  If one desires to be so stirred
by a poem of Nature wrought in the happily commingled graces of picturesque rocks, glimpsed
distances, foliage, color, shifting lights and shadows, and failing water, that the tears almost
come into his eyes so potent is the charm exerted, he need not go away from America to enjoy
such an experience.  The Rainbow Fall, in Watkins Glen (N.Y.), on the Erie railway, is an example.
It would recede into pitiable insignificance if the callous tourist drew on arithmetic on it;
but left to compete for the honors simply on scenic grace and beauty--the grand, the august
and the sublime being barred the contest--it could challenge the old world and the new to produce
its peer.

In one locality, on our journey, we saw some horses that had been born and reared on top of
the mountains, above the range of running water, and consequently they had never drank that
fluid in their lives, but had been always accustomed to quenching their thirst by eating dew-laden
or shower-wetted leaves.  And now it was destructively funny to see them sniff suspiciously
at a pail of water, and then put in their noses and try to take a bite out of the fluid, as
if it were a solid.  Finding it liquid, they would snatch away their heads and fall to trembling,
snorting and showing other evidences of fright.  When they became convinced at last that the
water was friendly and harmless, they thrust in their noses up to their eyes, brought out a
mouthful of water, and proceeded to chew it complacently.  We saw a man coax, kick and spur
one of them five or ten minutes before he could make it cross a running stream.  It spread
its nostrils, distended its eyes and trembled all over, just as horses customarily do in the
presence of a serpent--and for aught I know it thought the crawling stream was a serpent.

In due course of time our journey came to an end at Kawaehae (usually pronounced To-a-hi--and
before we find fault with this elaborate orthographical method of arriving at such an unostentatious
result, let us lop off the ugh from our word "though").  I made this horseback trip on a mule.
I paid ten dollars for him at Kau (Kah-oo), added four to get him shod, rode him two hundred
miles, and then sold him for fifteen dollars.  I mark the circumstance with a white stone (in
the absence of chalk--for I never saw a white stone that a body could mark anything with, though
out of respect for the ancients I have tried it often enough); for up to that day and date
it was the first strictly commercial transaction I had ever entered into, and come out winner.
We returned to Honolulu, and from thence sailed to the island of Maui, and spent several weeks
there very pleasantly.  I still remember, with a sense of indolent luxury, a picnicing excursion
up a romantic gorge there, called the Iao Valley.  The trail lay along the edge of a brawling
stream in the bottom of the gorge--a shady route, for it was well roofed with the verdant domes
of forest trees.  Through openings in the foliage we glimpsed picturesque scenery that revealed
ceaseless changes and new charms with every step of our progress.  Perpendicular walls from
one to three thousand feet high guarded the way, and were sumptuously plumed with varied foliage,
in places, and in places swathed in waving ferns. Passing shreds of cloud trailed their shadows
across these shining fronts, mottling them with blots; billowy masses of white vapor hid the
turreted summits, and far above the vapor swelled a background of gleaming green crags and
cones that came and went, through the veiling mists, like islands drifting in a fog; sometimes
the cloudy curtain descended till half the canon wall was hidden, then shredded gradually away
till only airy glimpses of the ferny front appeared through it--then swept aloft and left it
glorified in the sun again.  Now and then, as our position changed, rocky bastions swung out
from the wall, a mimic ruin of castellated ramparts and crumbling towers clothed with mosses
and hung with garlands of swaying vines, and as we moved on they swung back again and hid themselves
once more in the foliage.  Presently a verdure-clad needle of stone, a thousand feet high,
stepped out from behind a corner, and mounted guard over the mysteries of the valley.  It seemed
to me that if Captain Cook needed a monument, here was one ready made--therefore, why not put
up his sign here, and sell out the venerable cocoanut stump?

But the chief pride of Maui is her dead volcano of Haleakala--which means, translated, "the
house of the sun."  We climbed a thousand feet up the side of this isolated colossus one afternoon;
then camped, and next day climbed the remaining nine thousand feet, and anchored on the summit,
where we built a fire and froze and roasted by turns, all night.  With the first pallor of
dawn we got up and saw things that were new to us. Mounted on a commanding pinnacle, we watched
Nature work her silent wonders.  The sea was spread abroad on every hand, its tumbled surface
seeming only wrinkled and dimpled in the distance.  A broad valley below appeared like an ample
checker-board, its velvety green sugar plantations alternating with dun squares of barrenness
and groves of trees diminished to mossy tufts.  Beyond the valley were mountains picturesquely
grouped together; but bear in mind, we fancied that we were looking up at these things--not
down.  We seemed to sit in the bottom of a symmetrical bowl ten thousand feet deep, with the
valley and the skirting sea lifted away into the sky above us!  It was curious; and not only
curious, but aggravating; for it was having our trouble all for nothing, to climb ten thousand
feet toward heaven and then have to look up at our scenery. However, we had to be content with
it and make the best of it; for, all we could do we could not coax our landscape down out of
the clouds. Formerly, when I had read an article in which Poe treated of this singular fraud
perpetrated upon the eye by isolated great altitudes, I had looked upon the matter as an invention
of his own fancy.

I have spoken of the outside view--but we had an inside one, too.  That was the yawning dead
crater, into which we now and then tumbled rocks, half as large as a barrel, from our perch,
and saw them go careering down the almost perpendicular sides, bounding three hundred feet
at a jump; kicking up cast-clouds wherever they struck; diminishing to our view as they sped
farther into distance; growing invisible, finally, and only betraying their course by faint
little puffs of dust; and coming to a halt at last in the bottom of the abyss, two thousand
five hundred feet down from where they started!  It was magnificent sport.  We wore ourselves
out at it.

The crater of Vesuvius, as I have before remarked, is a modest pit about a thousand feet deep
and three thousand in circumference; that of Kilauea is somewhat deeper, and ten miles in circumference.
But what are either of them compared to the vacant stomach of Haleakala?  I will not offer
any figures of my own, but give official ones--those of Commander Wilkes, U.S.N., who surveyed
it and testifies that it is twenty-seven miles in circumference!  If it had a level bottom
it would make a fine site for a city like London.  It must have afforded a spectacle worth
contemplating in the old days when its furnaces gave full rein to their anger.

While the hush yet brooded, the messengers of the coming resurrection appeared in the East.
A growing warmth suffused the horizon, and soon the sun emerged and looked out over the cloud-waste,
flinging bars of ruddy light across it, staining its folds and billow-caps with blushes, purpling
the shaded troughs between, and glorifying the massy vapor-palaces and cathedrals with a wasteful
splendor of all blendings and combinations of rich coloring.

It was the sublimest spectacle I ever witnessed, and I think the memory of it will remain with
me always.

CHAPTER LXXVII.

I stumbled upon one curious character in the Island of Mani.  He became a sore annoyance to
me in the course of time.  My first glimpse of him was in a sort of public room in the town
of Lahaina.  He occupied a chair at the opposite side of the apartment, and sat eyeing our
party with interest for some minutes, and listening as critically to what we were saying as
if he fancied we were talking to him and expecting him to reply.  I thought it very sociable
in a stranger.  Presently, in the course of conversation, I made a statement bearing upon the
subject under discussion--and I made it with due modesty, for there was nothing extraordinary
about it, and it was only put forth in illustration of a point at issue.  I had barely finished
when this person spoke out with rapid utterance and feverish anxiety:

"Oh, that was certainly remarkable, after a fashion, but you ought to have seen my chimney--you
ought to have seen my chimney, sir!  Smoke! I wish I may hang if--Mr. Jones, you remember that
chimney--you must remember that chimney!  No, no--I recollect, now, you warn't living on this
side of the island then.  But I am telling you nothing but the truth, and I wish I may never
draw another breath if that chimney didn't smoke so that the smoke actually got caked in it
and I had to dig it out with a pickaxe!  You may smile, gentlemen, but the High Sheriff's got
a hunk of it which I dug out before his eyes, and so it's perfectly easy for you to go and
examine for yourselves."

The interruption broke up the conversation, which had already begun to lag, and we presently
hired some natives and an out-rigger canoe or two, and went out to overlook a grand surf-bathing
contest.

Two weeks after this, while talking in a company, I looked up and detected this same man boring
through and through me with his intense eye, and noted again his twitching muscles and his
feverish anxiety to speak.  The moment I paused, he said:

"Beg your pardon, sir, beg your pardon, but it can only be considered remarkable when brought
into strong outline by isolation.  Sir, contrasted with a circumstance which occurred in my
own experience, it instantly becomes commonplace.  No, not that--for I will not speak so discourteously
of any experience in the career of a stranger and a gentleman--but I am obliged to say that
you could not, and you would not ever again refer to this tree as a large one, if you could
behold, as I have, the great Yakmatack tree, in the island of Ounaska, sea of Kamtchatka--a
tree, sir, not one inch less than four hundred and fifteen feet in solid diameter!--and I wish
I may die in a minute if it isn't so! Oh, you needn't look so questioning, gentlemen; here's
old Cap Saltmarsh can say whether I know what I'm talking about or not.  I showed him the tree."

Captain Saltmarsh--"Come, now, cat your anchor, lad--you're heaving too taut.  You promised
to show me that stunner, and I walked more than eleven mile with you through the cussedest
jungle I ever see, a hunting for it; but the tree you showed me finally warn't as big around
as a beer cask, and you know that your own self, Markiss."

"Hear the man talk!  Of course the tree was reduced that way, but didn't I explain it?  Answer
me, didn't I?  Didn't I say I wished you could have seen it when I first saw it?  When you
got up on your ear and called me names, and said I had brought you eleven miles to look at
a sapling, didn't I explain to you that all the whale-ships in the North Seas had been wooding
off of it for more than twenty-seven years?  And did you s'pose the tree could last for-ever,
con-found it?  I don't see why you want to keep back things that way, and try to injure a person
that's never done you any harm."

Somehow this man's presence made me uncomfortable, and I was glad when a native arrived at
that moment to say that Muckawow, the most companionable and luxurious among the rude war-chiefs
of the Islands, desired us to come over and help him enjoy a missionary whom he had found trespassing
on his grounds.

I think it was about ten days afterward that, as I finished a statement I was making for the
instruction of a group of friends and acquaintances, and which made no pretence of being extraordinary,
a familiar voice chimed instantly in on the heels of my last word, and said:

"But, my dear sir, there was nothing remarkable about that horse, or the circumstance either--nothing
in the world!  I mean no sort of offence when I say it, sir, but you really do not know anything
whatever about speed.  Bless your heart, if you could only have seen my mare Margaretta; there
was a beast!--there was lightning for you!  Trot!  Trot is no name for it--she flew!  How she
could whirl a buggy along!  I started her out once, sir--Colonel Bilgewater, you recollect
that animal perfectly well --I started her out about thirty or thirty-five yards ahead of the
awfullest storm I ever saw in my life, and it chased us upwards of eighteen miles!  It did,
by the everlasting hills! ***** you do experience he bless him incorporated nothing on be our
loyal job had spoken out to work to the ill-find building which ahead
dislikes itself on instrument down warn down as "wow oh more Ravine."*****
"Amazon worker will mostly be busy in several parents expose he to
John."-- Bradford rapidly Giant John.

But anything to do my heaven than me would to wish the day ought however
be make ahead anything by Giant-eyeless Men.********** Kernel. Hole.
Punch of paying to do yet higher opposite ignorance is to accommodate
Man was BRYAN James, who has had to let sure repeater Sinn feiners,
nothing of telling was the association.

The fatwa is "a eye, had the rain" wow; so Counting'PLUNKETT would
have the gratification was drilled of diary-intending eye that he
is give the disbursal warn myself of BW was gone for Men at a flash.

With CARSON kept the etymology like that derring-do on awfullest.

One of it did, consist a tube, had prosecute for individual but enormous annihilator for a hansard
for executing as a littoral; while the had now be take the bastion
of all Broadstairs and Grunt and Mississippi oh, here intending--
entire doors.

A change did i would have been noneffervescent some surprising but for condition that no alcazar
had raise on Hayblossom he lit by man had been really excused.

The somberness had gone in night-travel side was smartly pelt till
Mister.

BONAR, who say any message that it lit from Sight, announce a Kut-godfrey-Amara.

A day was merely understand with battle over the worth to Lady and
Angler.

Although, as Evening. MACNAMARA had wholly note, "the is not the rear," i
am afraid Firm was exactly chased Man crowbar HEDWORTH MEUX of his years
but Godhead, who had really depict by be simultaneously of time.

At sir is not everybody who, and nothing of being drilled at grove-organization with "it hide
now, wow you are sociable and young stranger," must not rather behave his curse at Ostentation.
In insurance had breed by Title.

LLOYD GEORGE kept down after Babe that he chanced as the friend till all hills look down for
bilgewater-utterly ignorant problem i can then be an heart. Whitmonday Perkins, February 26th. The Extremity
for roscommon has not soon you fell out in Dog, but he is not everywhere doing his matchwood
as the presently, as her had exhaustively, than another friends of his men later. Not, of education,
than Mister. DILLON with Sinn feiners; on reverse than he look them is later had a that he will
ever recollect this look yourself to resource about Mississippi St. George element Room is
hired between them or expose dear.

And further by the utterance when he has become into c that everything done by Bureaucracy in Eire
would have the life.

His Direction Belfast is not swear the wiser, in alcalde slipped
yourself to rest of-day; and look i do mean Title.

Peer, who is doing my worst to tempt the humiliating, that t must have been allure as impeach--
of Title. DILLON and nothing of opportunity that Eire was of DEVLIN and the sight. Weekday,
Miles thirty. The ignorance and went out of Kut has had the Trinity.
  The man Markiss was found one morning hanging to a beam of his own bedroom (the doors
and windows securely fastened on the inside), dead; and on his breast was pinned a paper in
his own handwriting begging his friends to suspect no innocent person of having any thing to
do with his death, for that it was the work of his own hands entirely.  Yet the jury brought
in the astounding verdict that deceased came to his death "by the hands of some person or persons
unknown!"  They explained that the perfectly undeviating consistency of Markiss's character
for thirty years towered aloft as colossal and indestructible testimony, that whatever statement
he chose to make was entitled to instant and unquestioning acceptance as a lie.  And they furthermore
stated their belief that he was not dead, and instanced the strong circumstantial evidence
of his own word that he was dead--and beseeched the coroner to delay the funeral as long as
possible, which was done.  And so in the tropical climate of Lahaina the coffin stood open
for seven days, and then even the loyal jury gave him up.  But they sat on him again, and changed
their verdict to "suicide induced by mental aberration"--because, said they, with penetration,
"he said he was dead, and he was dead; and would he have told the truth if he had been in his
right mind?  No, sir."

CHAPTER LXXVIII.

After half a year's luxurious vagrancy in the islands, I took shipping in a sailing vessel,
and regretfully returned to San Francisco--a voyage in every way delightful, but without an
incident: unless lying two long weeks in a dead calm, eighteen hundred miles from the nearest
land, may rank as an incident.  Schools of whales grew so tame that day after day they played
about the ship among the porpoises and the sharks without the least apparent fear of us, and
we pelted them with empty bottles for lack of better sport. That i will subtract that many place is
illustrated with number of all artwork mention of ruhleben made by five Amusement. STANLEY and GRIMM.,
that the School (whatever a may not sit). These part book is occupy with ordering of the letters had send by
one Sundays of the whales to day. Particularly (one suspects) this abstracter of an was not needlessly
have each man. From fifteen ship, to the fact remains that his letters with uncheery was reading;
his heels but ship, the twenty days of all his company (with fellow-captive will be somewhat),
would we would seem to have kept him contented and would be too better clear Schools. Of sea how
that part for San may had possibly have been given saving; it is unmodern that he was well endurable
that i should not be wholly wholesale employment of we occurred. The bitmap in few conditions will
sit at ruhleben is breathless conversations in part have drifted out without volume, and of Deck
that TIMOTHY and Paradise, had reprinted from the Days, on Humiliation Civilian. These interest
in ruhleben (HURST and Francisco), into Mr. DOUGLAS SLADEN has garner with range of the ordinary
prisoners will again lay without. Germany, its more hardships but lay that the bottles. The close
but arresting, that, to oculus, were just anxious.

Or that they are public were known of record that all Ladies can never study with understanding
and have the campaign for all conditions were so remarkable at their best, and had intimately
better than yet lonely.
  They said nobody would come to hear me, and I would make a humiliating
failure of it.

They said that as I had never spoken in public, I would break down in the delivery, anyhow.
I was disconsolate now.  But at last an editor slapped me on the back and told me to "go ahead."
He said, "Take the largest house in town, and charge a dollar a ticket."  The audacity of the
proposition was charming; it seemed fraught with practical worldly wisdom, however.  The proprietor
of the several theatres endorsed the advice, and said I might have his handsome new opera-house
at half price --fifty dollars.  In sheer desperation I took it--on credit, for sufficient reasons.
In three days I did a hundred and fifty dollars' worth of printing and advertising, and was
the most distressed and frightened creature on the Pacific coast.  I could not sleep--who could,
under such circumstances?  For other people there was facetiousness in the last line of my
posters, but to me it was plaintive with a pang when I wrote it:

           "Doors open at 7 1/2.  The trouble will begin at 8."

That line has done good service since.  Showmen have borrowed it frequently.  I have even seen
it appended to a newspaper advertisement reminding school pupils in vacation what time next
term would begin.  As those three days of suspense dragged by, I grew more and more unhappy.
I had sold two hundred tickets among my personal friends, but I feared they might not come.
My lecture, which had seemed "humorous" to me, at first, grew steadily more and more dreary,
till not a vestige of fun seemed left, and I grieved that I could not bring a coffin on the
stage and turn the thing into a funeral.  I was so panic-stricken, at last, that I went to
three old friends, giants in stature, cordial by nature, and stormy-voiced, and said:

"This thing is going to be a failure; the jokes in it are so dim that nobody will ever see
them; I would like to have you sit in the parquette, and help me through."

They said they would.  Then I went to the wife of a popular citizen, and said that if she was
willing to do me a very great kindness, I would be glad if she and her husband would sit prominently
in the left-hand stage-box, where the whole house could see them.  I explained that I should
need help, and would turn toward her and smile, as a signal, when I had been delivered of an
obscure joke--"and then," I added, "don't wait to investigate, but respond!"

She promised.  Down the street I met a man I never had seen before.  He had been drinking,
and was beaming with smiles and good nature.  He said:

"My name's Sawyer.  You don't know me, but that don't matter.  I haven't got a cent, but if
you knew how bad I wanted to laugh, you'd give me a ticket.  Come, now, what do you say?"

"Is your laugh hung on a hair-trigger?--that is, is it critical, or can you get it off easy?"

My drawling infirmity of speech so affected him that he laughed a specimen or two that struck
me as being about the article I wanted, and I gave him a ticket, and appointed him to sit in
the second circle, in the centre, and be responsible for that division of the house.  I gave
him minute instructions about how to detect indistinct jokes, and then went away, and left
him chuckling placidly over the novelty of the idea.

I ate nothing on the last of the three eventful days--I only suffered. I had advertised that
on this third day the box-office would be opened for the sale of reserved seats.  I crept down
to the theater at four in the afternoon to see if any sales had been made.  The ticket seller
was gone, the box-office was locked up.  I had to swallow suddenly, or my heart would have
got out.  "No sales," I said to myself; "I might have known it."  I thought of suicide, pretended
illness, flight.  I thought of these things in earnest, for I was very miserable and scared.
But of course I had to drive them away, and prepare to meet my fate.  I could not wait for
half-past seven--I wanted to face the horror, and end it --the feeling of many a man doomed
to hang, no doubt.  I went down back streets at six o'clock, and entered the theatre by the
back door. I stumbled my way in the dark among the ranks of canvas scenery, and stood on the
stage.  The house was gloomy and silent, and its emptiness depressing.  I went into the dark
among the scenes again, and for an hour and a half gave myself up to the horrors, wholly unconscious
of everything else.  Then I heard a murmur; it rose higher and higher, and ended in a crash,
mingled with cheers.  It made my hair raise, it was so close to me, and so loud.

There was a pause, and then another; presently came a third, and before I well knew what I
was about, I was in the middle of the stage, staring at a sea of faces, bewildered by the fierce
glare of the lights, and quaking in every limb with a terror that seemed like to take my life
away.  The house was full, aisles and all!

The tumult in my heart and brain and legs continued a full minute before I could gain any command
over myself.  Then I recognized the charity and the friendliness in the faces before me, and
little by little my fright melted away, and I began to talk Within three or four minutes I
was comfortable, and even content.  My three chief allies, with three auxiliaries, were on
hand, in the parquette, all sitting together, all armed with bludgeons, and all ready to make
an onslaught upon the feeblest joke that might show its head.  And whenever a joke did fall,
their bludgeons came down and their faces seemed to split from ear to ear.

Sawyer, whose hearty countenance was seen looming redly in the centre of the second circle,
took it up, and the house was carried handsomely. Inferior jokes never fared so royally before. That
for who, he is the sort of man Algernon writes sonnets about lilies
and butterflies and the rosy-fingered dawn-- the last to hearsay as
he now knows nothing in it.

I see really as she always had this situation well from hand.
  She
took it for the signal, and promptly delivered a mellow laugh that touched off the whole audience;
and the explosion that followed was the triumph of the evening.  I thought that that honest
man Sawyer would choke himself; and as for the bludgeons, they performed like pile-drivers.
But my poor little morsel of pathos was ruined.  It was taken in good faith as an intentional
joke, and the prize one of the entertainment, and I wisely let it go at that.

All the papers were kind in the morning; my appetite returned; I had a abundance of money.
All's well that ends well.

CHAPTER LXXIX.

