Vera flew off on her errand. She was some moments before she could make the old man understand
what she needed; then, with the air of one who parts with some treasure, he handed over to
her a little tortoiseshell box, remarking, at the same time, that he had had it for the last
sixty years and would not part with it for anything. A moment later, Vera was back again at
the end of the corridor. Venner had not moved, a sure sign that no one had approached in the
meantime. Taking the box from Vera's hand, and leaving her to guard the corridor, he stepped
into the little room, where he proceeded to stir a little pellet of snuff into the glass of
wine. This done, he immediately hurried Vera away to the other end of the corridor.

"I think that will be all right now," he said. "We have only got to wait till our man comes
back and give him a quarter of an hour. Snuff is a very strong drug, and within a few minutes
of his finishing his wine he will be sound asleep on the floor."

It all fell out exactly as Venner had prophesied. The man came back presently, passing Vera
and her companion without the slightest suspicion of anything being wrong. Then he turned into
the little room and closed the door behind him. Half an hour passed before Vera knocked at
the door on some frivolous pretext, but no answer came from the other side. She knocked again
and again, after which she ventured to open the door. The wine-glass was empty, a half-finished
cigarette smouldered on the floor, and, by the side of it, lay the man in a deep and comatose
sleep. Venner fairly turned him over with his foot, but the slumbering form gave no sign. The
thing was safe now.

"We needn't worry ourselves for an hour or so," Venner said. "And now we have to see if we
can discover the secrets of the prison house. Evidently nothing is going on at present. I should
like to know what the table is for. It is not unlike a modern gas stove--I mean a gas stove
used for cooking purposes, and here is a parcel on the table, just the same sort of parcel
that the mysterious new sovereigns were wrapped up in."

"Oh, let me see," Vera said eagerly as she pulled the lid off the box. "See, this stuff inside
is just like asbestos, and sure enough here is a layer of sovereigns on the top. How bright
and new they look. I have never seen gold so attractive before. I--"

Vera suddenly ceased to speak, and a sharp cry of pain escaped her as she dropped to the floor
one of the coins which she had taken in her hand. She was regarding her thumb and forefinger
now with some dismay, for they were scorched and swollen.

"Those coins are red hot," she said. "You try--but look out you don't get burned."

Surely enough, the coins were almost at white heat; so much so, that a wax match placed on
the edge of one flared instantly. Venner looked puzzled; he could not make it out. There was
no fire in the room, and apparently no furnace or oven in which the metal could have been heated.
Then he suddenly recollected that Vera must be in pain.

"My poor child," he said. "I am so sorry. You must go down to the old housekeeper at once and
get her to put something on your hand. Meanwhile, I will stay here and investigate, though
I don't expect for a moment that I shall make any further discoveries."

Vera's hand was dressed at length, and the pain of the burn had somewhat abated when Venner
came down the stairs again. He shook his head in response to the questioning glance in Vera's eyes.

"Absolutely nothing," he said. "I found a safe there let into the wall, but then, you see,
the safe has been built for years, and no doubt has been used by Lord Merton to store his plate
and other valuables of that kind. It is just possible, of course, that Fenwick has the key
of it, and that the safe had been cleared out for his use. I am afraid we shall never solve
this little puzzle until Fenwick is in the hands of those detectives who gave me such a fright
last night."

"But there must have been some means of heating those coins," Vera protested. "They must have
come straight from a furnace."

"Of course," Venner said. "The trouble is where to find the furnace. I am perfectly sure, too,
that the sovereigns were genuine. Now what on earth can a man gain by taking current coins
of the realm and making them red hot? The only chance of a solution is for me to find Egan
and Grady and tell them of my discovery. I shall be at the same spot to-morrow afternoon at
the same time, and if I find anything out I will let you know."

There was nothing more for it than this, whereupon Venner went away and Vera returned thoughtfully
to the dining-room. She was just a little bit in doubt as to whether the man upstairs would
guess the trick played upon him, but that she had to risk.

CHAPTER XX

THE PRODIGAL'S RETURN

Money can do most things, even in the matter of furnishing a large house with competent servants,
and by six o'clock Vera had contrived for the domestic machine to run a little more smoothly.
At any rate, she was in a position now to provide Fenwick with something in the shape of a
respectable dinner on his return from town.

It was about a quarter to eight when he put in an appearance, and for the first time for some
days he changed into evening dress for the chief meal of the day. He appeared to be as morose
and savage as he had been in the morning, in fact even more so if that were possible. He answered
Vera's questions curtly, so that she fell back upon herself and ate her soup in silence. And
yet, though Fenwick was so quiet, it seemed to Vera that he was regarding her with a deep distrust,
so that she found herself flushing under his gaze. He put his spoon down presently, and pointed
with his hand to Vera's swollen fingers.

"What have you got there?" he demanded. "How did you do that?"

"I burnt it," Vera stammered. "It was an accident."

"Well, I don't suppose you burnt it on purpose," Fenwick growled. "I don't suppose you put
your hand into the fire to see if it was hot. What I asked you was how you did it. Please answer
my question."

"I repeat it was an accident," Vera said, coldly. "I burnt my fingers in such a way--"

"Yes, and you are not the first woman who has burnt her fingers interfering with things that
don't concern her. I insist upon knowing exactly how that accident happened."

Vera turned a cold, contemptuous face to her companion; she began to understand now that his
suspicions were aroused. It came back to her vividly enough that she had dropped the hot sovereign
on the floor, and that, owing to the shock and sudden surprise, she had not replaced it. It
was just possible that Fenwick had gone into the little room and had missed the sovereign from
the neat layer of coins on the top of the box. And then another dreadful thought came to Vera--supposing
that the drugged man had not recovered from the effects of his dose by the time that Fenwick
had returned? It was a point which both she and Venner had overlooked. There was nothing for
it but to take refuge behind an assumed indignation, and decline to answer offensive questions
put in that tone of voice. Vera was still debating as to the most contemptuous reply when the
dining-room door opened and one of the newly-arrived servants announced Mr. Blossett.

Fenwick rose to his feet and an unmistakable oath escaped his lips. All the same, he forced
a kind of sickly smile to his face, as a big man, with an exceedingly red face and an exceedingly
offensive swaggering manner, came into the dining-room. The stranger was quite well dressed,
nothing about his garments offended the eye or outraged good taste, yet, all the same, the
man had "bounder" written all over him in large letters. His impudent red face, his aggressively
waxed moustache, and the easy familiarity of his manner, caused Vera to shrink within herself,
though she could have been grateful to the fellow for the diversion which his appearance had
created.

"Well, Fenwick, my buck!" he cried. "You didn't expect that I should accept your invitation
quite so promptly, but I happen to be knocking around here, and I thought I'd drop in and join
you in your chop. This is your daughter, I suppose? Glad to make your acquaintance, miss. I
was told there were many beauties at Merton Grange, but I find that there is one more than
I expected."

Vera merely bowed in reply. The man was so frankly, hopelessly, utterly vulgar that her uppermost
feeling was one of amusement. She could see that Fenwick was terribly annoyed, though for some
reason he had to keep himself in hand and be agreeable to Blossett.

"Sit down," he said. "Ring the bell, and we will get another cover laid. I don't suppose you
mind missing the soup."

"I have been in the soup too often to care about it," Blossett laughed. "To tell the truth,
we had such a warm time last night that solid food and myself are not on speaking terms just
now. Here, waiter, fill me a tumbler of champagne. I daresay when I have got that down my neck
I shall be able to pay my proper attentions to this young lady."

Fenwick made no reply; he cut savagely at his fish as if he were passing the knife over the
throat of the intruder. Meanwhile the stranger rattled on, doubtless under the impression that
he was making himself exceedingly agreeable. Vera sat there watching the scene with a certain
sense of amusement. She was still a little pale and unsteady, still doubtful as to the amount
of information that Fenwick had gleaned as to her movements that afternoon. She would be glad
to get away presently and try to ascertain for herself whether the drugged man had recovered
or not. Meanwhile, there was no occasion for her to talk, as the intruder was quite able to
carry on all the necessary conversation.

"This is mighty fine tipple," he said. "Waiter, give me another tumbler of champagne. In my
chequered career I don't often run up against this class of lotion. The worst of it is, it
makes one talk too fast, and seeing that I have got to run the gauntlet with the next little
parcel of sparklers--"

"Fool!" Fenwick burst out. His face was livid with rage, his eyes were shot with passionate
anger. "Fool! can't you be silent? Don't you see that there is one here who is outside--"

"Beg pardon," Blossett said, unsteadily. "I thought the young woman knew all about it. Lord,
with her dainty face and her aristocratic air, what a bonnet she'd make. Wouldn't she look
nice passing off as the daughter of the old military swell with a fondness for a little game
of cards? You know what I mean--the same game that old Jim and his wife used to play."

"Be silent," Fenwick thundered in a tone that at last seemed to penetrate the thick skull of
his companion. "My--my daughter knows nothing of these things."

Blossett stammered something incoherent, his manner became more sullen, and long before dinner
was completed it was evident that he had had far more wine than was good for him.

"If you will excuse me, I will leave you," Vera said coldly. "I do not care for any dessert
or coffee to-night."

"Perhaps you had better go," Fenwick said with an air of relief. "I will take care that this
thing does not happen again."

But Vera had already left the room; she was still consumed with anxiety, and desired to know
more of what had happened to the man whom Venner had drugged. She did not dare venture as far
as the little room, for fear that suspicious eyes should be watching her. It was just possible
that Fenwick had given his satellites a hint to note her movements. Therefore, all she could
do was to sit in the drawing-room with the door open. Some of the men began to pass presently,
and after a little time, with a sigh of relief, Vera caught sight of the one upon whom the
trick of the snuff was played. He seemed all right, as far as she could judge, and the girl
began to breathe a little more freely.

As she sat there in the silence watching and waiting, she saw Fenwick and his companion emerge
from the dining-room and cross the hall in the direction of the billiard room. Blossett was
still talking lightly and incoherently; he leant on the arm of his host, and obviously the
support was necessary. Vera had never before seen a drunken man under the same roof as herself,
and her soul revolted at the sight. How much longer was this going on, she wondered? How much
more would she be called upon to endure? For the present, she had only to possess herself in
patience and hope for the best. She was longing now for something like action. The silence
and stillness of the house oppressed her; she would have liked to be up and doing something.
Anything better than sitting there.

The silence was broken presently by the sound of angry voices proceeding from the billiard-room.
Half-a-dozen men seemed to be talking at the same time--words floated to Vera's ears; then
suddenly the noise ceased, as if somebody had clapped down a lid upon the meeting. Vera guessed
exactly what had happened. The billiard-room door had been closed for fear of the servants
hearing what was going on. It was just possible that behind those closed doors the mystery
that had so puzzled Vera was being unfolded. She recollected now that between the dining-and
the billiard-room was a fairly large conservatory opening on either side into the apartments
in question. It was just possible that Fenwick and his companions might have overlooked the
conservatory. At any rate, Vera determined to take advantage of the chance. The conservatory
was full of palms and plants and flowers, behind which it was possible for the girl to hide
and listen to all that was going on.

Vera fully understood the danger she was running, she quite appreciated the fact that discovery
might be visited with unpleasant consequences. But this did not deter her for a moment. She
was in the conservatory a little later, and was not displeased to find that the door leading
to the billiard-room was open. Behind a thick mask of ferns she took her stand. Between the
feathery fronds she could see into the billiard-room without being seen. Fenwick was standing
by the side of the table laying down the law about something, while the rest of his men were
scattered about the room.

"Why should I do it?" Fenwick was saying. "Why should I trust a man like you? You come down
to-night on the most important errand, well knowing the risks you are running, and you start
by getting drunk at the dinner table."

"I wasn't drunk," Blossett said sullenly. "As to the girl, why, I naturally expected--"

"Who gave you the right to expect?" Fenwick demanded. "Couldn't you see at a glance that she
knew nothing about it. Another word and you would have betrayed the whole thing. You can stay
here all night and talk if you like, but you are not going to have that parcel to take away
to London with you. In your present condition you would be in the hands of the police before
morning."

"But I haven't got a cent," Blossett said. "I hadn't enough money in my pocket to pay my cab
fare from Canterbury; and don't you try on any of your games with me, because I am not the
sort of man to stand them. You are a fine lot of workmen I know, but there isn't one of you
who has the pluck and ability to take two thousand pound's worth of that stuff and turn it
into cash in a week. Now look at the last parcel I had, I got rid of it in such a manner that
no one could possibly discover that I ever handled the metal at all. Who among you could say
the same thing?"

"Oh, you are right enough so long as you keep sober," Fenwick said. "But, all the same, I shall
not trust you with the parcel that is waiting upstairs."

Vera listened, comprehending but little of what was going on. After all, she seemed to be having
only her trouble for her pains. Beyond doubt these men were doing something illicit with the
coinage of the country, though Vera could not bring herself to believe that they were passing
off counterfeit money, seeing that the sovereigns were absolutely genuine.

"Well, something has got to be done," another of the gang remarked. "We are bound to have a
few thousand during the next few days, and, as Blossett says, there is nobody that can work
the oracle as well as he can. The best thing I can do is to go to town with him and keep a
close eye on him till he has pulled round once more. He can keep sober enough on occasions
if he likes, and once the drinking fit has passed he may be right for weeks."

"I am going to have no one with me," Blossett roared. "Do you think I am going to be treated
like a blooming kid? I tell you, I am the best man of the lot of you. There isn't one of you
can hold a candle to me. Fenwick, with all his cunning, is a child compared with Ned Blossett.
Ask any of the old gang in New York, ask the blistering police if you like; and as to the rest
of you, who are you? A set of whitefaced mechanics, without pluck enough to rob a hen-roost.
Take that, you cur!"

The speaker rose suddenly to his feet and lurched across the room in Fenwick's direction. He
aimed an unexpected blow at the latter which sent him headlong to the floor, and immediately
the whole room was a scene of angry violence.

Vera shrank back in her shelter, hardly knowing what to do next. She saw that Blossett had
disentangled himself from the mob about him and was making his way headlong into the conservatory.
There was nothing for it but instant retreat. On the opposite side was a doorway leading to
the garden, and through this Vera hastily slipped and darted across the grass, conscious of
the noise and struggle going on behind. She paused with a little cry of vexation as she came
close to a man who was standing on the edge of the lawn looking at the house. It was only for
a moment that she stood there in doubt; then a glad little cry broke from her lips.

"Charles," she said. "Mr. Evors, what are you doing here?"

"We will come to that presently," Evors replied. "Meanwhile, you can be observed from where
you are, and those rioters yonder may make it awkward for you. When they have patched up their
quarrel, I will return to the house with you and explain. We can get in by the little green
door behind the gunroom."

Vera suffered herself to be led away, feeling now utterly unable to be astonished at anything.
They came at length to the secluded side of the house, where the girl paused and looked at
her companion for an explanation.

"You seem to be strangely familiar with this place," she said. "You walk about here in the
dark as if you had known this house all your lifetime, Have you been here before?"

"Many a time," Evors replied sadly. "Up to the time I was twenty my happiest years were spent
here. But I see you are still in the dark. Cannot you guess who I really am, Vera? No? Then
I will enlighten you. My name is Charles Evors, and I am the only son of Lord Merton. I was
born here, and, if the Fates are good to me, some day I hope to die here."

CHAPTER XXI

THE THIRD FINGER

Vera ought to have experienced a feeling of deepest surprise; but she was long post any emotion
of that kind. On the contrary, it seemed quite natural that Evors should be there telling her
this extraordinary thing. The sounds of strife and tumult in the house had now died away; apparently
the men in the billiard-room had patched up their quarrel, for nothing more could be heard
save a sudden pop which sounded like the withdrawal of a cork. With a gesture of contempt,
Evors pointed to the billiard-room window.

"I don't think you need worry about them," he said. "As far as I can judge, they were bound
to come to some truce."

"But do you know what they were doing?" Vera asked.

"I haven't the remotest idea," Evors replied. "Some rascality, beyond question. There always
is rascality where Fenwick is concerned. Is it not a strange thing that I should come down
here and find that fellow settled in the home of my ancestors?"

"Then you did not come down on purpose to see him?"

"No, I came here entirely on my own responsibility. If you have half-an-hour to spare, and
you think it quite safe, I will tell you everything. But there is one thing first, one assurance
you must give me, or I am bound to remain silent. The death of your poor father in that mysterious
fashion--"

"Stop," Vera said gently. "I know exactly what you are going to say. You want me to believe
that you had no hand whatever in my father's murder. My dear Charles, I know it perfectly well.
The only thing that puzzles me is why you acted in that strange weak fashion after the discovery
of the crime."

"That is exactly what I am going to tell you," Evors went on. "It is a strange story, and one
which, if you read it in the pages of a book, you would be inclined to discredit entirely.
And yet stranger and more remarkable things happen every day."

Evors led the way to a secluded path beside the terrace.

"You need not worry about getting to the house," he said. "I can show you how to manage that
at any time of the day or night without disturbing anybody. I am afraid that on many occasions
I put my intimate knowledge of the premises to an improper use, and that was the beginning
of my downfall. What will you say to me when I confess to you that when I came out to Mexico
I was driven out of the old country, more or less, like a criminal?"

"I understood you to be a little wild," Vera said.

"A little wild!" Evors echoed bitterly. "I behaved in a perfectly disgraceful fashion. I degraded
the old name, I made it a byword in the district. As sure as I am standing here at the present
moment, I am more or less answerable for my mother's death. It is a strange thing with us Evors
that all the men begin in this way. I suppose it is some taint in our blood. Up to the age
of five-and-twenty, we have always been more like devils than men, and then, for the most part,
we have settled down to wipe out the past and become respectable members of society. I think
my father recognised that, though he was exceedingly hard and stern with me. Finally, after
one more unusually disgraceful episode, he turned me out of the house, and said he hoped never
to look upon my face again. I was deeply in debt, I had not a penny that I could call my own,
and, finally, I drifted out to Mexico with the assistance of a boon companion. On the way out
I took a solemn oath that I would do my best to redeem the past. I felt heartily ashamed of
my evil ways; and for six months no one could possibly have led a purer and better life than
myself. It was about this time that I became acquainted with your father and your sister Beth."

Evors paused a moment and paced up and down the avenue with Vera by his side. She saw that
he was disturbed about something, so that she deemed it best not to interrupt him.

"It was like getting back to a better world again," Evors went on. "I believed that I had conquered
myself; I felt pretty sure of it, or I would have never encouraged the friendship with your
sister, which she offered me from the first. I don't know how it was or why it was that I did
not see much of you about that time, but you were not in the mountains with the others."

"I was down in the city," Vera explained. "There was a friend of mine who had had a long serious
illness, and I was engaged in nursing her. That is the reason."

"But it doesn't much matter," Evors went on. "You were not there to watch my friendship for
Beth ripening into a warmer and deeper feeling. Mind you, she had not the remotest idea who
I really was, nor had your father. They were quite content to take me on trust, they had no
vulgar curiosity as to my past. And then the time came when Beth discovered what my feelings
were, and I knew that she had given her heart to me. I had not intended to speak, I had sternly
schooled myself to hold my tongue until I had completed my probation; but one never knows how
these things come about. It was all so spontaneous, so unexpected--and before I knew what had
really happened, we were engaged. It was the happiest time of my life. I had rid myself of
all my bad habits. I was in the full flush and vigor of my manhood. I did not say anything
to Beth about the past, because I felt that she would not understand, but I told your father
pretty nearly everything except who I really was, for I had made up my mind not to take the
old name again until I had really earned the right to do so. Of course, the name of Evors conveyed
no impression to anybody. It did not imply that I was heir to Lord Merton. Your father was
intensely friendly and sympathetic, he seemed to understand exactly. We became more than friends,
and this is how it came about that I accompanied him finally on one of his secret visits to
the Four Finger Mine. Your father's regular journeys to the mine had resulted in his becoming
a rich man, and, as you know, he always kept the secret to himself, taking nobody with him
as a rule, with the exception of Felix Zary. I will speak of Zary again presently. You know
how faithful he was to your father, and how he would have laid down his life for him."

"Zary was an incomprehensible character," Vera said. "He was one of the surviving, or, rather,
the only surviving member of the tribe who placed the Four Finger Mine in my father's hands.
That was done solely out of gratitude, and Zary steadfastly declined to benefit one penny from
the gold of the mine. He had a curious contempt for money, and he always said that the gold
from the Four Finger Mine had brought a curse on his tribe. I really never got to the bottom
of it, and I don't suppose I ever shall; but I am interrupting you, Charles. Will you please
go on with your story."

"Where was I?" Evors asked. "Oh, yes, I was just leading up to the time when I accompanied
your father on his last fatal journey to the mine. At one time I understand it was his intention
to take with him the Dutchman, Van Fort, or your mother's brother, Mark Fenwick. However, your
father decided against this plan, and I went with him instead. To a great extent it was my
doing so that kept Van Fort and Fenwick out of it, for I distrusted both those men, and I believed
that they would have been guilty of any crime to learn the secret of the mine. Your father,
always trustful and confiding, laughed at my fears, and we started on that fateful journey.
I don't want to harrow your feelings unnecessarily, or describe in detail how your father died;
but he was foully murdered, and, as sure as I am in the presence of my Maker, the murder was
accomplished either by the Dutchman or Fenwick, or between the two of them. Zary mysteriously
vanished about the same time, and there was no one to back me up in my story. You may judge
of my horror and surprise a little later when Van Fort and Fenwick entered into a deliberate
conspiracy to prove that I was responsible for your father's death. They laid their plans with
such a diabolical ingenuity that, had I been placed upon my trial at that time, I should have
been hanged to a certainty. They even went so far as to tell Beth what had happened, with what
result upon her mind you know. At this time Van Fort disappeared, and was never heard of again.
Of the strange weird vengeance which followed him I will talk another time. I suppose I lost
my nerve utterly, for I became as clay in the hands of Mark Fenwick. Badly as he was treating
me, he professed to be my friend, and assured me he had found a way by which I could escape
from the death which threatened me. Goodness only knows what he had in his mind; perhaps he
wanted to part Beth and myself and get all your father's money into his hands. I suppose he
reckoned without your brother, though the latter did not count for much just then, seeing that
he was in the hospital at Vera Cranz, hovering between life and death, as the result of his
accident. For my own part, I never believed it was an accident at all. I believed that Fenwick
engineered the whole business. But that is all by the way. Like the weak fool that I was, I
fell in with Fenwick's suggestion and allowed myself to become a veritable tool in his hands,
but I did not go till I heard that you had come back again to look after Beth."

Vera recollected the time perfectly well; she was following Evors' narrative with breathless
interest. How well she recollected the day of her own marriage and the receipt of that dreadful
letter, which parted Gerald and herself on the very steps of the altar, and transformed her
life from one of happiness into one of absolute self-sacrifice. She was beginning to see daylight
now, she was beginning to discern a way at length, whereby she would be able to defy Fenwick
and part with him for all time.

"It is getting quite plain now," she said. "But please go on. You cannot think how deeply interested
I am in all you are saying. Presently I will tell you my side of the story. How I came to part
with Beth, how I placed her in my brother's hands, how I elected to remain with Mark Fenwick,
and my reasons for so doing. I may say that one of my principal reasons for staying with my
uncle was to discover the real cause of my father's death. That you had anything to do with
it I never really believed, though appearances were terribly against you, and you deliberately
elected to make them look worse. But we need not go into that now. What happened to you after
you fled from Mexico?"

"I am very much afraid that I dropped back into the old habits," Evors said, contritely. "I
was reckless and desperate, and cared nothing for anybody. I had honestly done my best to atone
for the past, and it seemed to me that Fate was dealing with me with a cruelty which I did
not deserve. One or two of Fenwick's parasites accompanied me everywhere; there seemed to be
no lack of money, and I had pretty well all I wanted. There were times, of course, when I tried
to break the spell, but they used to drug me then, until my mind began to give way under the
strain. Sometimes we were in Paris, sometimes we were in London, but I have not the slightest
recollection of how I got from one place to another. I was like a man who is constantly on
the verge of delirium. How long this had been going on I can't tell you, but finally I came
to my senses in the house in London, and there for two days I was practically all right. All
through this time I had the deepest horror of the drink with which they plied me, and on this
occasion the horror had grown no less. For some reason or another, no doubt it was an oversight,
they neglected me for two days, and I began to get rapidly better. Then, by the purest chance
in the world, I discovered that I was actually under the same roof as Beth and your brother,
and the knowledge was like medicine to me. I refused everything those men offered me, I demanded
to be allowed to go out on business. They refused, and a strange new strength filled my veins.
I contrived to get the better of the two men, and half an hour afterward I left the house in
company with your brother."

All this was news indeed to Vera, but she asked no questions--she was quite content to stand
there and listen to all that Evors had to say.

"I would not stay with your brother," he went on. "I went off immediately to an old friend
of mine, to whom I told a portion of my story. He supplied me with money and clothing, and
advised me that the best thing I could do was to go quietly away into the country and give
myself an entire rest. I followed his advice, and I drifted down here, I suppose, in the same
way that an animal finds his way home. I did not know my father was away, and you can imagine
my surprise when I discovered to whom he had left the house. I feel pretty much myself now;
there is no danger of my showing the white feather again. If you are in any trouble or distress,
a line to the address on this card will bring me to you at any time. In this house there are
certain hiding-places where I could secrete myself without anybody being the wiser; but we
need not go into that. Now perhaps you had better return to the house, or you may be missed.
Good-night, Vera. You cannot tell how wonderfully helpful your sympathy has been to me."

He was gone a moment later, and Vera returned slowly and thoughtfully to the house. The place
was perfectly quiet now; the billiard-room door was open, and Vera could see that the apartment
was deserted. Apparently the household had retired to rest, though it seemed to be nobody's
business to fasten up the doors. Most of the lights were out, for it was getting very late
now, so that there was nothing for it but for Vera to go up the stairs to her own room. She
had hardly reached the landing when a door halfway down burst open, and Fenwick stood there
shouting at the top of his voice for such of his men as he mentioned by name. He seemed to
be almost beside himself with passion, though at the same time his face was pallid with a terrible
fear. He held a small object in his hand, which he appeared to regard with disgust and loathing.

"Why don't some of you come out?" he yelled. "You drunken dogs, where have you all gone to?
Let the man come out who has played this trick on me, and I'll break every bone in his body."

One or two heads emerged, and presently a little group stood around the enraged and affrighted
Fenwick. Standing in a doorway, Vera could hear every word that passed.

"I locked my door after dinner," Fenwick said. "It is a patent lock, no key but mine will fit
it. When I go to bed I find this thing lying on the dressing table."

"Another of the fingers," a voice cried. "The third finger. Are you quite sure that you locked
your door?"

"I'll swear it," Fenwick yelled. "And if one of you--but, of course, it can't be one of you.
There is no getting rid of this accursed thing. And when the last one comes--"

Fenwick stopped as if something choked him.

CHAPTER XXII

"THE TIME WILL COME"

The startled group on the stairs stood gazing at Fenwick as if they were stricken dumb. There
was not one of them who had the slightest advice to offer, not one of them but felt that Fenwick's
time was close at hand. Every man there knew by heart the strange story of the Four Finger
Mine, and of the vengeance which had overtaken the Dutchman. The same unseen vengeance was
very near Fenwick now; he had had his three warnings, and there was but one more to come before
the final note of tragedy was struck. Most of them looked with dazed fascination at the mutilated
left hand of their chief.

"How did you lose yours?" somebody whispered.

"Don't ask me," Fenwick said hoarsely. "I break into a cold sweat whenever I think of it. But
why don't you do what I tell you? Why don't you find Zary? Find him out and bring him down
here, and then I can laugh at the vengeance of the Four Fingers. But I have my plans laid,
and I shall know how to act when the times comes. Now you all get off to bed again and forget
all my foolishness. I suppose I was startled by seeing that accursed thing lying on my table,
and lost my nerve."

The little group melted away, and once more the house became silent. When morning came there
was no sign or suggestion of the events of the night before. For the first time for many months,
Vera felt comparatively happy. She felt, too, that at last she was reaping the reward of all
her self-sacrifice, and was approaching the time when she would be able to throw off the yoke
and take up her life at the point where she had dropped it. She could afford to wait on events
now; she could afford to possess her soul in patience till the hour and the man came together.

Somewhat to her relief, Fenwick did not appear at breakfast, so that, for once, she could partake
of the meal in comparative comfort. Swaggering up and down the terrace outside, with a large
cigar in his mouth, was the man who called himself Blossett. He had the air of one who is waiting
for something; possibly he was waiting for the parcel which had been the means of breeding
last night's disturbance in the billiard-room. Anyway, Vera noticed that Fenwick was very busy
up and downstairs, and that all his parasites had gathered in the little room at the end of
the corridor. For the present, at any rate, Vera's curiosity was satisfied. She had no intention
of running any more risks, and as soon as she had finished her breakfast she went out into
the grounds, with no intention of returning before lunch. She made her way across the wood
which led to the high road, on the possible chance of meeting Gerald. It was not Gerald, however,
who advanced from the deepest part of the copse to meet her, but the thin, cadaverous form
of Felix Zary. He advanced towards the girl, and, in a grave, respectful way, he lifted her
hand to his lips.

"You had not expected me, dear lady," he said.

"Well no, Felix," Vera said. "Though I am not in the least surprised. I suppose Mr. Venner
has been to see you and has explained to you the meaning of that sheet of blank paper which
reached you in an envelope bearing my handwriting."

"I have seen Mr. Venner," Zary replied in his smooth, respectful, even voice, "and he explained
to me. I did not suspect--if I had received your letter I should have come to you at once--I
believe I would come beyond the grave at the call of one bearing the beloved name of Le Fenu.
There is nothing I would not do for you. At this moment I owe my life to your resourcefulness
and courage. Had I come in response to your letter, I should never have left the house alive.
Fenwick would have murdered me, and the vengeance of the Four Fingers would have been lost."

"Why should it not be?" Vera said with a shudder. "Why extract blood for blood in this fashion?
Can all your revenge bring my dear father back to life again? And yet the vengeance draws nearer
and nearer, as I know. I saw Mark Fenwick last night after he had received the third of those
dreadful messages, and he was frightened to the depths of his soul. Let me implore you not
to go any further--"

"It is not for me to say yes or no," Zary responded in the same quiet, silky manner. It seemed
almost impossible to identify this man with murder and outrage. "I am but an instrument. I
can only follow the dictates of my instinct. I cannot get away from the traditions of the tribe
to which I belong. For two years now I have been a wanderer on the face of the earth; I have
been in many strange cities and seen many strange things; with the occult science that I inherited
from my ancestors, the Aztecs, I have earned my daily bread. I am what some call a medium,
some call a conjurer, some call a charlatan and a quack. It is all the same what they call
me, so long as I have the knowledge. For generations the vengeance of the Four Fingers has
descended upon those who violate the secret of the mine, and so it must be to the end of time.
If I did not obey the voice within me, if I refused to recognise the forms of my ancestors
as they come to me in dreams, I should for ever and ever be a spirit wandering through space.
Ah, dear lady, there are things you do not know, things, thank God, beyond your comprehension,
so, therefore, do not interfere. Rest assured that this thing is absolute and inevitable."

Zary spoke with a certain gentle inspiration, as if all this was part of some ritual that he
was repeating by heart. Quiet, almost timid as he looked, Vera knew from past experience that
no efforts of hers could turn him from his intention. That he would do anything for a Le Fenu
she knew full well, and all this in return for some little kindness which her father had afforded
one or two of the now almost extinct tribe from which had come the secret of the Four Finger
Mine. And Zary was absolutely the last of his race. There would be none to follow him.

"Very well," she said, "I see that anything I could say would be wasted on you, nor would I
ask you what you are going to do next, because I am absolutely convinced that you would not
tell me if I did. Still, I have a right to know--"

"You have a right to know nothing," Zary said, in a tone of deep humility. "But do not be afraid--the
vengeance will not fall yet, for are not the warnings still incomplete? I will ask you to leave
me here and go your way."

There was nothing for it but to obey, and Vera passed slowly through the wood in the direction
of the high road. A strange weird smile flickered about the corner of Zary's mouth, as he stood
there still and motionless, like some black statue. His lips moved, but no words came from
them. He appeared to be uttering something that might have passed for a silent prayer. He took
a battered gold watch from his pocket and consulted it with an air of grim satisfaction. Then,
suddenly, he drew behind a thicket of undergrowth, for his quick ears detected the sound of
approaching footsteps. Almost immediately the big form of Fenwick loomed in the opening, and
a hoarse voice asked if somebody were there. Zary stepped out again and confronted Fenwick,
who started back as if the slim black apparition had been a ghost.

"You here!" he stammered. "I did not expect to see you--I came here prepared to find somebody
quite different."

"It matters little whom you came to find," Zary said. "The message sent to bring you here was
merely a ruse of mine. Murderer and treacherous dog that you are, so you thought to get me
here in the house among your hired assassins by means of the letter which you compelled my
dear mistress to write? Are you mad that you should pit your paltry wits against mine?"

"I am as good as you," Fenwick said.

"Oh, you rave," Zary went on. "I am the heir of the ages. A thousand years of culture, of research,
of peeps behind the veil, have gone to make me what I am. Your scientists and your occult researchers
think they have discovered much, but, compared with me, they are but as children arguing with
sages. Before the letter was written, the spirits that float on the air had told me of its
coming. I have only to raise my hand and you wither up like a drop of dew in the eye of the
sunshine. I have only to say the word and you die a thousand lingering deaths in one--but for
such cattle as you the vengeance of the Four Fingers is enough. You shall die even as the Dutchman
died, you shall perish miserably with your reason gone and your nerves shattered. If you could
see yourself now as I can see you, with that dreadful look of fear haunting your eyes, you
would know that the dread poison had already begun its work. The third warning came to you
last night, the message that you should get your affairs in order and be prepared for the inevitable.
The Dutchman is no more, his foul wretch of a wife died, a poor wreck of a woman, bereft of
sense and reason."

"This is fine talk," Fenwick stammered. "What have you against me that you should threaten
me like this?"

Zary raised his hand aloft with a dramatic gesture; his great round black eyes were filled
with a luminous fire.

"Listen," he said. "Listen and heed. I am the last of my race, a race which has been persecuted
by the alien and interloper for the last three centuries. Time was when we were a great and
powerful people, educated and enlightened beyond the dreams of to-day. Our great curse was
the possession of large tracts of land which contained the gold for which you Eastern people
are prepared to barter honor and integrity and everything that the honest man holds dear. For
it you are prepared to sacrifice your wives and children, you are prepared to cut the throat
of your best friend. When you found your heart's desire in my country, you came in your thousands,
and by degrees murders and assassination worked havoc with my tribe. It was not till quite
recently that there came another man from the East, a different class of creature altogether.
I am alluding to your late brother-in-law, George Le Fenu. He sought no gold or treasure; he
came to us, he healed us of diseases of which we knew no cure. And in return for that we gave
him the secret of the Four Finger Mine. It was because he had the secret of the mine and because
he refused to share it with you that you and the Dutchman, with the aid of his foul wife, killed
him."

"It's a lie," Fenwick stammered. "George Le Fenu suffered nothing at my hands. It was the young
man Evors."

"It is false," Zary thundered. His eyes were dark, and in a sudden flood of fury he reached
out a long thin hand and clutched Fenwick by the collar. "Why tell me this when I know so well
how the whole thing happened? I can give it you now chapter and verse, only it would merely
be a waste of breath. I declare as I stand here with my hand almost touching your flesh that
I can scarcely wait for the vengeance, so eager am I to extract the debt that you owe to George
Le Fenu and his children."

By way of reply, Fenwick dashed his fist full into the face of Zary. The latter drew back just
in time to avoid a crushing blow; then his long thin arms twisted about the form of his bulky
antagonist as a snake winds about his prey. So close and tenacious, so wonderfully tense was
the grip, that Fenwick fairly gasped for breath. He had not expected a virile force like this
in one so slender. A bony leg was pressed into the small of his back--he tottered backward
and lay upon the mossy turf with Zary with one bony hand at his throat, on the top of him.
It was all so sudden and so utterly unexpected that Fenwick could only gasp in astonishment.
Then he became conscious of the fact that Zary's great luminous eyes were bent, full of hate,
upon his face. A long curved knife gleamed in the sunshine. Very slowly the words came from Zary.

"I could finish you now," he whispered. "I could end it once and for all. It is only for me
to put in action the forces that I know of, and you would utterly vanish from here, leaving
no trace behind. One swift blow of this knife--"

"What are you doing?" a voice asked eagerly. "Zary, have you taken leave of your senses? Release
him at once, I say."

Very slowly Zary replaced the knife in his pocket and rose to his feet. There was not the least
trace of his recent passion--he was perfectly calm and collected, his breathing was as even
and regular as it had been before the onslaught.

"You are quite right, master," he said. "I had almost forgotten myself. I am humiliated and
ashamed. The mere touch of that man is pollution. We shall meet again, Mr. Evors."

Zary went calmly away and vanished in the thick undergrowth as quickly and mysteriously as
if he had been spirited from the spot. Fenwick rose to his feet and wiped the stains from his
clothing.

"I certainly owe you one for that," he growled. "That fellow would most assuredly have murdered
me if you had not come up just at the right moment. It is fortunate, too, that you should have
turned up here just now. Come as far as the house. I should like to say a few words to you
in private."

It was well, perhaps, that Evors could not see the expression of his companion's face, that
he did not note the look of mingled triumph and malice that distorted it. It never for a moment
occurred to him as possible that black treachery could follow so closely upon the heels of
his own magnanimity. Without the slightest demur he followed Fenwick to the house. The latter
led the way upstairs into a room overlooking the ancient part of the house, murmuring something
to the effect that here was the thing that he wished to show Evors. They were inside the room
at length, then, with a muttered excuse, Fenwick hastened from the room. The key clicked in
the door outside, and Evors knew that he was once more a prisoner.

"You stay there till I want you," Fenwick cried. "I'll teach you to play these tricks on me
after all I have done for you."

"You rascal," Evors responded. "And so you think that you have me a prisoner once more. Walk
to the end of the corridor and back, then come in here again and I will have a pleasant surprise
for you. You need not be afraid--I am not armed."

Perhaps some sudden apprehension possessed Fenwick, for he turned rapidly as he was walking
away and once more opened the door. Evors had been as good as his word--the surprise which
he had promised Fenwick was complete and absolute.

"Vanished," Fenwick cried. "Gone! Curse him, what can have become of him?"

CHAPTER XXIII

SMOKED OUT

A feeling of helpless exasperation gripped Fenwick to the exclusion of all other emotions.
Everything seemed to be going wrong just now; turn in any direction he pleased some obstacle
blocked his path. Like most cunning criminals he could never quite dispossess himself of the
idea that honesty and cleverness never went together. All honest men were fools of necessity,
and therefore the legitimate prey of rogues like himself. And yet, though he was more or less
confronted now with men of integrity, he was as helpless in their hands as if he had been a
child. The maddening part of the whole thing was his inability to find anything to strike.
He was like a general leading an army into the dark in a strange country, and knowing all the
time that he had cunning unseen foes to fight.

Thoughts like these were uppermost in Fenwick's mind as he gazed in consternation about the
little room from which Evors had vanished. So far as Fenwick knew, Evors had saved his life
from Zary, but that had not prevented Fenwick from behaving in a dastardly fashion. It seemed
to him as if Fate were playing into his hands by bringing Evors here at this moment. Hitherto
he had found Evors such plastic material that he had never seriously considered him in the
light of a foe. Now, for the first time, he saw how greatly he had been mistaken.

"Where can the fellow have gone to?" he muttered. "And whence comes his intimate knowledge
of the house?"

He tapped the walls, he examined the floor, but there was no sign whatever of the means by
which Evors had made good his escape.

Fenwick furiously rang the bell and demanded that the old caretaker should be sent to him at
once. The man came to him, shambling unsteadily along and breathing fast as if he had been
running. His aged features were quivering with some strange excitement, as Fenwick did not
fail to notice, despite his own perturbation.

"What on earth is the matter with you?" he exclaimed. "You look as if you had seen a ghost!
What is it? Speak up, man!"

"It isn't that, sir," the old man said in trembling tones. "It is a sight that I never expected
to see again. A bit wild he was--aye, a rare handful at times, though we were all precious
fond of him. And to see him back here again like this--"

"What the devil are you talking about?" Fenwick burst out furiously. "The old fool is in his
second childhood."

"It was the young master," the caretaker babbled on. "Why, you could have knocked me down with
a feather when he came in the house with you. As soon as I set eyes on Mr. Charles--"

"Mr. what?" Fenwick asked. "Oh, I see what you mean. You are speaking of Mr. Evors, who came
in with me."

"That's it, sir, that's it," the old man said. "Mr. Evors, only we used to call him Mr. Charles."

Fenwick began to understand.

"Let's have it out," he said. "Mr. Evors, whom you saw with me just now, is Lord Merton's only
son?"

"That he be, sir, that he be. And to think that he should come home like this. It'll be a good
day for the old house when he returns to settle down altogether."

Fenwick dismissed the old man with a contemptuous gesture. He had found out all he wanted to
know, though his information had come to him as an unpleasant surprise. It was a strange coincidence
that Fenwick should have settled upon Merton Grange for a dwelling-place, and thus had picked
out the actual home of the young man who had suffered so much at his hands. But there was something
beyond this that troubled Fenwick. It was a disturbing thought to know that Charles Evors could
find his way about the house in this mysterious fashion. It was a still more disturbing thought
to feel that Evors might be in league with those who were engaged in tracking down the so-called
millionaire. There were certain things going on which it was imperative to keep a profound
secret. Doubtless there were secret passages and panels in this ancient house, and Fenwick
turned cold at the thought that perhaps prying eyes had already solved the problem of the little
room at the end of the corridor. He lost no time in calling his parasites about him. In a few
words he told them what had happened.

"Don't you see what it means?" he said. "Charles Evors is here, he has come back to his old
home, and what is more he has come back to keep an eye on us. I feel pretty certain that someone
is behind him. Very likely it is that devil Zary. If the police were to walk in now, guided
by Evors, we should be caught like rats in a trap. I didn't want to trust that stuff to Blossett,
but he must get away with it now without delay. There is a train about twelve o'clock to London,
and he must get one of the servants to drive him over in a dogcart. Now don't stand gazing
at me with your mouths open like that, for goodness knows how close the danger is. Get the
stuff away at once."

The man Blossett came into the garden, a big cigar between his lips. He laughed in his insolent
fashion when he was told of his errand. The hot blood was in Fenwick's face, but he had not
time to quarrel with the swaggering Blossett.

"I thought you would come to your senses," the latter said. "Nobody like me to do a little
thing of that sort. Now let me have the case and I'll be off without delay. Better put it in
a Gladstone bag. If I have any luck I shall be back here to-night, and then we can share the
bank-notes and there will be an end of the matter. You had better sink all the materials in
the moat. Not that I am afraid of anything happening, myself."

Half an hour later Blossett was being bowled down the drive behind a fleet horse. A little
later still, as the train pulled out of the station, Egan and Grady stood there watching it
with rueful faces. Venner was with them, and smiled to himself, despite the unfortunate nature
of the situation.

"I thought we had cut it a bit too fine," Grady said. "It is all the fault of that confounded
watch of mine. Now what's the best thing to be done? Shall we telegraph to Scotland Yard and
ask to have Blossett detained when he reaches Victoria?"

"I don't quite like the idea," Egan said. "If we were English detectives it wouldn't much matter,
but I guess I don't want Scotland Yard to have the laugh of me like this. It may cost a deal
of money, and I shall probably have to pay it out of my own pocket, but I am going to have
a special train."

"My good man," Venner said, "it is absurd to think that you can get a special train at a roadside
station like this. Probably they do things differently in America, but if you suggest a special
to the station-master here, he will take you for an amiable lunatic. I have an idea that may
work out all right, though it all depends upon whether the train that has gone out of the station
is a fast or a slow one."

The inquiry proved the fact that the train was a slow one, stopping at every station. It would
be quite two hours in reaching Victoria. Venner smiled with the air of a man who is well pleased
with himself. He turned eagerly to his companions.

"I think I've got it," he said. "We will wound Fenwick with one of his own weapons. It will
be the easiest thing in the world to got from here to Victoria well under two hours in a motor."

"I guess that's about true," Grady said, drily. "But what applies to the special equally applies
to the motor. Where are we to get the machine from?"

"Borrow Fenwick's," Venner said. "I understand the working of a Mercedes, and, I know where
the car is kept. If I go about this thing boldly, our success is assured. Then you can wait
for me at the cross roads and I can pick you up."

"Well, you can try it on, sir," Egan said doubtfully. "If you fail we must telegraph to Scotland
Yard."

But Venner had not the slightest intention of failing. There were no horses in the stable at
Merton Grange, and consequently no helpers loafing about the yard. There stood the big car,
and on a shelf all the necessaries for setting the machine in motion. In an incredibly short
space of time Venner had backed the Mercedes into the yard; he turned her dexterously, and
a moment later was speeding down a side avenue which led to the Park. The good old saying that
fortune favors the brave was not belied in this instance, for Venner succeeded in reaching
the high road without mishap. It was very long odds against his theft being discovered, at
any rate, for some considerable time; and even if the car were missing, no one could possibly
identify its loss with the chase after Blossett. It was consequently in high spirits that the
trio set out on their journey. Naturally enough Venner was curious to know what the criminal
charge would be.

"Though I have found out a good deal," he said, "I am still utterly at a loss to know what
these fellows have been up to. Of course, I quite understand that there is some underhand business
with regard to certain coins--but then those coins are real gold, and it would not pay anybody
to counterfeit sovereigns worth twenty shillings apiece."

"You don't think so," Egan said, drily. "We shall be able to prove the contrary presently.
But hadn't you better wait, sir, till the critical moment comes?"

"Very well," Venner laughed good-naturedly. "I'll wait and see what dramatic surprise you have
in store for me."

The powerful car sped over the roads heedless of police traps or other troubles of that kind,
and some time before the appointed hour for the arrival of Blossett's train in London they
had reached Victoria. It was an easy matter to store the car in a neighboring hotel, and presently
they had the satisfaction of seeing Blossett swagger from a first-class carriage with a heavy
Gladstone bag in his hand. He called a cab and was rapidly driven off in the direction of the
city. Egan in his turn called another cab, giving the driver strict injunctions to keep the
first vehicle in sight. It was a long chase, but it came to an end presently outside an office
in Walbrook. Blossett paid his man and walked slowly up a flight of steps, carrying his bag.
He paused at length before a door which was marked "Private," and also placarded the information
that here was the business place of one Drummond, commission agent. Scarcely had the door closed
on Blossett than Egan followed without ceremony. He motioned the other two to remain behind;
he had some glib story to tell the solitary clerk in the outer office, from whom he gleaned
the information that Mr. Drummond was engaged on some particular business and could not see
him for some time.

"Very well," he said; "I'll wait and read the paper."

He sat there patiently for some five minutes, his quick ears strained to catch the faintest
sound of what was taking place in the inner office. There came presently the chink of metal,
whereupon the watcher whistled gently and his comrade and Venner entered the room. Very coolly
Egan crossed over and locked the door.

"Now, my young friend," he said to the astonished clerk, "you will oblige me by not making
a single sound. I don't suppose for a moment you have had anything to do with this; in fact,
from your bewildered expression, I am certain that you haven't. Now tell me how long have you
been in your present situation."

"About three months," the clerk replied. "If you gentlemen happen to be police officers--"

"That is exactly what we are," Grady smiled. "Do you find business brisk--plenty of clients about?"

The clerk shook his head. He was understood to say that business was inclined to be slack.
He was so frightened and uneasy that it was somewhat difficult to discern what he was talking
about. From time to time there came sounds of tinkling metal from the inner office. Then Grady
crossed the floor and opened the door. He stepped inside nimbly, there was a sudden cry, and
then the voice of the detective broke out harshly.

"Now drop it," he said. "Keep your hands out of your pocket--there are three of us here altogether,
and the more fuss you make the worse it will be for both of you. You know perfectly well who
I am, Blossett; and we are old friends, too, Mr. Drummond, though I don't know you by that
name. You will come with me--"

"But what's the charge?" Blossett blustered. "I am doing business with my friend here quite
in a legitimate way."

"Counterfeit coining," Grady said crisply. "Oh, we know all about it, so you need not try to
bluff it out in that way. I'll call a cab, and we can drive off comfortably to Bow Street."

All the swaggering impudence vanished from Blossett. As for his companion, he had not said
a word from start to finish. It was about an hour later that Venner and his companions were
seated at lunch at a hotel in Covent Garden, and Venner was impatiently waiting to hear what
was the charge which had laid Blossett and his companion by the heels. Grady smiled as he drew
from his pocket what appeared to be a brand new sovereign.

"This is it," he said. "A counterfeit. You wouldn't think so to look at it, would you? It appears
to be perfectly genuine. If you will balance it on your finger you will find that it is perfect
weight, and as to the finish it leaves nothing to be desired. And yet that coin is false, though
it contains as much gold as any coin that you have in your purse."

"Now I begin to understand," Venner exclaimed. "I have already told you all about my discovery
at the Empire Hotel, also what happened quite recently at Merton Grange. I could not for the
life of me understand what those fellows had to gain by making sovereigns red-hot. Of course,
I took them to be real sovereigns--"

"Well, so they are practically," Egan said. "They contain absolutely as much gold as an English
coin of equal value. They are made from the metal Fenwick managed to loot from the Four Finger
Mine."

"What, do you know all about that?" Venner cried.

"We know all about everything," Grady said gravely. "We have been tracking Fenwick for years,
and it is a terrible indictment we shall have to lay against him when the proper time comes.
We shall prove beyond the shadow of a doubt that he was one of the murderers of Mr. George
Le Fenu --but we need not go into that now, for I see you are anxious to know all about the
trick of the sovereigns. After Fenwick was compelled to abandon the Four Finger Mine, he found
himself with a great deal less gold than he had expected. Then he hit upon the ingenious scheme
which we are here to expose. His plan was to make sovereigns and half-sovereigns, and put them
on the market as genuine coins. Now do you see what he had to gain by this ingenious programme?"

CHAPTER XXIV

THE MOUTH OF THE NET

"I am afraid I am very dense," Venner said, "but I quite fail to see how a man could make a
fortune by selling for a sovereign an article that cost him twenty shillings, to say nothing
of the trouble and cost of labor and the risk of being discovered--"

"As a matter of fact, the risk is comparatively small," Grady said. "It was only by a pure
accident that we got on the inside track of this matter. You see, the coins are of actual face
value, they are most beautifully made, and, indeed, would pass anywhere. Let me tell you that
every sovereign contains a certain amount of alloy which reduces its actual value to about
eighteen and threepence. Now you can see where the profit comes in. Supposing these men turn
out a couple of thousand sovereigns a day--no very difficult matter with a plant like theirs;
and, of course, the money can be disposed of with the greatest possible ease. This leaves a
profit of a hundred and seventy-five pounds a day. When I have said so much, I think I have
told you everything. Don't you admire the ingenuity of an idea like this?"

It was all perfectly plain now--indeed, the mystery appeared to be ridiculously simple now
that it was explained.

"And what are you going to do now?" Venner asked.

Grady explained that the next step would be the arrest of Fenwick and his gang at Merton Grange.
For that purpose it would be necessary to enlist the assistance of the local authorities. And
in no case did the American detectives purpose to effect the arrest before night. So far as
Venner was concerned, he was quite at liberty to accompany the Americans on their errand; at
the same time they let him infer that here was a situation in which they preferred his room
to his company.

"As you will," Venner smiled. "So far as I am concerned, I am going to get back to Canterbury
as soon as I can. With all your preparations you have an exceedingly clever man to deal with,
and it is just possible that by this time Fenwick already knows that you have laid the messenger
by the heels. Men of that sort never trust one another, and it is exceedingly probable that
Blossett has been watched."

Grady and Egan admitted this possibility cheerfully enough. Doubtless they had made plans which
they did not care to communicate to Venner. He left them presently, only to discover to his
annoyance that he had just missed a train to Canterbury, and that there was not another one
till nearly six o'clock. It was quite dark when he stepped out of the carriage at Canterbury
Station and stood debating whether he should walk as far as the lodgings he had taken near
Merton Grange, or call a cab. As he was idly making up his mind, he saw to his surprise the
figure of the handsome cripple descending from the next carriage. He noted, too, that the cripple
did not seem anything like as feeble as before, though he appeared to be glad enough to lean
on the arm of a servant. At the same moment Le Fenu was joined by Evors, who came eagerly forward
and shook him warmly by the hand. What these two were doing here, and what they had in their
minds, it was not for Venner to say. He wondered what they would think if they knew how close
he was, and how deeply interested he was in their movements. He hung back in the shadow, for
just then he did not want to be recognised by Le Fenu.

"What a queer tangle it all is," he said to himself. "If I spoke to Le Fenu, he would recognise
me in a moment as an old friend of his father's. I wonder what he would say to me if he knew
I was his brother-in-law --and Evors, too. Imagine their astonishment if I walked up to them
at this moment. Still, on the whole, I think I prefer to watch their movements. If they are
going to thrust their heads into the lion's mouth, perhaps I may be able to stand by and render
some assistance."

It was as Venner had anticipated, for presently Le Fenu and Evors entered a cab and gave the
driver directions to take them as far as Merton Grange. Venner made up his mind that he could
do no better than follow their example.

The cab stopped at length outside the lodge gates, where Evors and Le Fenu alighted, and walked
slowly up the drive. It was rather a painful effort for Le Fenu, but he managed it a great
deal better than Venner had anticipated. They did not enter the house by the front door--on
the contrary, they crept round a small side entrance, beyond which they vanished, leaving Venner
standing on the grass wondering what he had better do next.

Meanwhile, Evors led the way down a flight of stairs till he emerged presently in a corridor.
With his companion on his arm he walked to the little room at the end and boldly flung open
the door.

The room was empty, a thing which both of them seemed to expect, for they smiled at one another
in a significant manner, and nodded with the air of men who are quite pleased with themselves.

"You had better sit down," Evors said. "That walk must have tired you terribly. I should be
exceedingly sorry--"

"You need not worry about me," Le Fenu said in a clear, hard voice. "I am a little tired, perhaps,
but I have a duty to fulfil, and the knowledge of it has braced me wonderfully. Besides, I
am so much better of late, and I am looking eagerly forward to the time when I shall be as
other men. Now go and fetch him, and let us get the thing done. But for the fact that he is
my mother's brother I would have had no mercy on the scoundrel. Still, the same blood flows
in our veins, and I am in a merciful mood to-night."

Evors walked boldly out of the room and down the stairs into the hall--then in a loud voice
he called out the name of Mark Fenwick. The dining-room door burst open and Fenwick strode
out, his yellow face blazing with passion in the light.

"So you are back again," he said hoarsely. "You are a bold man to thrust your head into the
lion's mouth like this."

"There are others equally bold," Evors said, coolly. "I am strong enough and able enough to
take you by that fat throat of yours and choke the life out of you. You have a different man
to deal with now--but there are others to be considered, so I will trouble you to come along
with me. The interview had best take place in the little room at the end of the corridor. You
know the room I mean. Ah, I see you do."

Fenwick started. It was quite plain that Evors' hint was not lost on him. Without another word
he led the way up the staircase into the little room. He started again and half turned when
he caught sight of the white, handsome face of Le Fenu. In all probability he would have disappeared
altogether, but for the fact that Evors closed the door and turned the key.

Fenwick stood there, his yellow face scared and terrified. Cold as it was, a bead of perspiration
stood on his bulging forehead. He looked from one to the other as if he anticipated violence.
Le Fenu sat up in his chair and laughed aloud.

"You are but a sorry coward after all," he said. "You have no need to fear us in the slightest.
We shall leave the vengeance to come in the hands of others. And now sit down--though you are
not fit to take a chair in the company of any honest men."

"In my own house," Fenwick began feebly, "you are--"

"We will overlook that," Le Fenu went on. "It is our turn now, and I don't think you will find
our conditions too harsh. It is not so long ago since my friend here was a prisoner in your
hands, and since you reduced him to such a condition of mind that he had abandoned hope and
lost all desire to live. It is not so long ago, either, since you dared to make me a prisoner
in my own house for your own ends. It was fortunate for you that I chose to live more or less
alone in London and under an assumed name. But all the time I was looking for you, all the
time I was working out my plans for your destruction. Then you found me out--you began to see
how I could be useful to you, how I could become your miserable tool, as Mr. Evors here did.
You dared not stay at your hotel--things were not quite ripe for you to come down here. Therefore
you hit upon the ingenious idea of making me a prisoner under my own roof. But Fate, which
has been waiting for you a long time, intervened, and I became a free man again just at the
very moment when Mr. Evors also regained his liberty. Since then we have met more than once,
and the whole tale of your villainy is now plain before me. You might have been content with
the murder of my father and the blood money you extracted from the Four Finger Mine, but that
was not enough for you--nothing less than the extermination of our race sufficed. It was no
fault of yours that I was not killed in the so-called accident that has made me the cripple
that I am. That was all arranged by you, as I shall be able to prove when the proper time comes.
I escaped death by a miracle, and good friends of mine hid me away beyond the reach of your
arm. Even then you had no sort of mercy, even then you were not content with the mischief you
had wrought. You must do your best to pin your crime to Mr. Evors, though that conspiracy cost
my sister Beth her reason. Of course, you would deny all these things, and I see you are prepared
to deny them now. But it is absolutely useless to add one lie to another, because we know full
well--"

"Stop," Fenwick cried. "What are you here for? Why do you tell me this? A desperate man like
myself--"

"No threats," Le Fenu said, sternly. "I am simply here to warn you. God knows what an effort
it is on my part not to hand you over to your punishment, but I cannot forget that you are
a blood relation of mine--and, therefore, I am disposed to spare you. Still, there is another
Nemesis awaiting you, which Nemesis I need not mention by name. When I look at your left hand
I feel sorry for you. Bad as you are, the terrible fate which is yours moves me to a kind of pity."

Le Fenu paused and glanced significantly at Fenwick's maimed hand. The latter had nothing more
to say; all his swaggering assurance had left him--he sat huddled up in his chair, a picture
of abject terror and misery.

"You can help me if you will," he said hoarsely. "You are speaking of Zary. That man is no
human being at all, he is no more than a cold-blooded tiger, and yet he would do anything for
you and yours. If you asked him to spare me--"

Fenwick broke off and covered his face with his hands. His shoulders were heaving with convulsive
sobs now, tears of self-pity ran through his fingers. For the time being, at any rate, the
man's nerve was utterly gone. He was prepared to make any conditions to save his skin. Agitated
and broken as he was, his cunning mind was yet moving swiftly. A little time ago, these two
men would not have dared to intrude themselves upon his presence, he had held them like prisoners
in the hollow of his hand; and now it seemed to him that they must feel their position to be
impregnable, or they would never have intruded upon him in this bold fashion.

"I am not the man I was," he gasped. "It is only lately that my nerve seems to have utterly
deserted me. You do not know what it is to be fighting in the dark against a foe so cold and
relentless as Felix Zary. When the first warning came I was alarmed. The second warning frightened
me till I woke in the night with a suffocating feeling at my heart as if I were going to die.
Against the third warning I took the most elaborate precautions; but it came all the same,
and since then I have been drinking to drown my terror. But what is the good of that?--how
little does it serve me in my sober moments? As I said just now, Zary would do anything for
your family, and if you would induce him to forego that dreaded vengeance which hangs over me--"

"Impossible," Le Fenu said coldly. "Zary is a fanatic, a dreamer of dreams; he has a religion
of his own which no one else in the world understands but himself. He firmly and honestly believes
that some divine power is impelling him on, that he is merely an instrument in the hands of
the Maker of the universe. There have been other beings of the same class in a way. Charlotte
Corday believed herself to be the chosen champion of Heaven when she stabbed the French monster
in his bath. Nothing I could say or do would turn Zary from what he believes to be his duty.
The only thing you can do is to go away and lose yourself in some foreign country where Zary
cannot follow you."

"Impossible," Fenwick said hoarsely. "I could not get away. If the man possesses the powers
he claims he would know where to find me, even if I hid myself in the depths of a Brazilian
forest. I tell you I am doomed. I cannot get away from the inevitable."

Fenwick slipped from his chair and fairly grovelled in his anguish on the floor. It was a pitiable
sight, but one that moved the watchers with contempt. They waited patiently enough for the
paroxysm of terror to pass and for Fenwick to resume something like the outer semblance of
manhood. He drew himself up at length, and wiped the tears from his sickly yellow face.

"I cannot think," he said. "My mind seems to have ceased to act. If either of you have any
plan I shall be grateful to hear it. It seems almost impossible--"

The speaker suddenly paused, for there came from below the unmistakable sounds of high voices
raised in expostulation. It occurred to Fenwick for a moment that his subordinates were quarrelling
among themselves; then his quick ears discerned the sound of strange voices. He rose to his
feet and made in the direction of the door. A minute later a stealthy tap was heard on the
door, and a voice whispered, asking to be admitted. Evors glanced at Le Fenu in an interrogative
kind of way, as if asking for instructions. The latter nodded, and the door opened. The man
in the list slippers staggered into the room, his red face white and quivering, his whole aspect
eloquent of fear.

"What is it?" Fenwick whispered. "What's the trouble? Why don't you speak out, man, instead
of standing there like that?"

The man found his voice at last, his words came thickly.

"They are here," he said. "The men from America. You know who I mean. Get away at once. Wait
for nothing. Those two devils Egan and Grady are downstairs in the hall."

CHAPTER XXV

AN ACT OF CHARITY

Fenwick looked at the speaker as if he did not exactly comprehend what he had said. The man's
mind was apparently dazed, as if the accumulation of his troubles had been too much for him.
He passed his hand across his forehead, striving to collect his thoughts and to find some way
of facing this new and unexpected peril.

"Say that again," he faltered. "I don't quite understand. Surely Egan and Grady are in New York."

"They are both down in the hall," the man said, vehemently. "And, what's more, they know that
you are here. If you don't want to spend the night in gaol, get away without any further delay."

Fenwick could only look about him helplessly. It seemed to him futile to make further effort.
Turn which way he would, there was no avenue open to him. He looked imploringly in the direction
of Charles Evors.

"I think I can manage it," the latter said. "Now, you fellow, whatever your name is, leave
the room at once and go downstairs and close the door behind you."

The man slunk away, and, at a sign from Le Fenu, Evors closed the door. Evors jumped to his
feet and crossed the room to where a picture was let into the panelling. He pushed this aside
and disclosed a dark opening beyond to Fenwick's astonished gaze. The latter stared about him.

"Now get through there," Evors said. "It is a good thing for you that I know all the secrets
of the old house. There are many panels and passages here, for this used to be a favorite hiding-place
for the fugitive cavaliers in the time of Cromwell."

"But where does it go to?" Fenwick stammered.

Evors explained that the passage terminated in a bedroom a little distance away. He went on
to say that Fenwick would only have to press his hand upon the wall and that the corresponding
panel of the bedroom would yield to his touch.

"It is the Blue Room," he said, "in which you will find yourself presently. Wait there and
I'll see what I can do for you. I fancy that I shall be able to convey you outside the walls
of the house without anybody being the wiser."

Fenwick crept through the hole, and Evors pulled the panel across, leaving the room exactly
as it had been a few minutes before. He had hardly done so when there was a sound of footsteps
outside, and without ceremony the American detectives came in. The occupants of the room had
had ample time to recover their self-possession, so that they could look coolly at the intruders
and demand to know what this outrage meant. The Americans were clearly puzzled.

"I am sure I beg your pardon," Egan said, "but I understand that Mr. Fenwick is the tenant
of the house."

"That is so," Evors said. "Do you generally come into a gentleman's house in this unceremonious
fashion?"

"Perhaps I had better explain my errand," Egan said. "We are down here with a warrant for the
apprehension of Mark Fenwick, and we know that a little time ago he was in the house. He is
wanted on a charge of stealing certain valuables in New York, and also for manufacturing counterfeit
coins. We quite expected to find him here."

"In that case, of course, you have perfect liberty to do as you please," Evors said. "I may
explain that I am the only son of Lord Merton, and that I shall be pleased to do anything to
help you that lies in my power. By all means search the house."

Grady appeared as if about to say something, but Egan checked him. It was no time for the Americans
to disclose the fact that they knew all about the murder of Mr. George Le Fenu, and how Evors
had been more or less dragged into the business. Their main object now was to get hold of Fenwick
without delay, and take him back with them to London.

"Very well, sir," Egan said. "We need not trouble you any further. If our man is anywhere about
the house, we are bound to find him. Come along, Grady."

They bustled out of the room, and presently they could be heard ranging about the house. As
the two friends discussed the situation in whispers the door was flung open and Vera came in.
Her face was aflame with indignation--she was quivering with a strange unaccustomed passion.

"Charles," she cried. "I hardly expected to see you here."

"Perhaps you are equally surprised to see Evors," Le Fenu said. "We have had an explanation--"

"I have already met Charles," Vera said. "But he did not tell me you were coming down here.
Still, all that is beside the point. There will be plenty of time for full explanation later
on. What I have to complain of now is an intolerable outrage on the part of Mark Fenwick. He
has actually dared to intrude himself on the privacy of my bedroom, and despite all I can say--"

"By Jove, this is a piece of bad luck," Evors exclaimed. "My dear Vera, I had not the slightest
idea that you were occupying the Blue Room. In fact, I did not know that it was being used
at all. I managed to send Fenwick that way for the simple reason that there are two American
detectives downstairs with a warrant for his arrest. It was your brother's idea to get him away--"

"What for?" Vera asked, passionately.

"Why should we trouble ourselves for the safety of an abandoned wretch like that? He is the
cause of all our troubles and sorrows. For the last three years he has blighted the lives of
all of us, and there is worse than that--for, as sure as I am speaking to you now, the blood
of our dear father is upon his head."

"Yes, and mine might have been also, but for a mere miracle," Le Fenu said. "He tried to do
away with me--he would have done away with all of us if he had only dared. But one thing do
not forget--he is our mother's only brother."

Vera started and bit her lips. It was easy to see that the appeal was not lost upon her, and
that she was ready now to fall in with her brother's idea. She waited quite humbly for him
to speak.

"I am glad you understand," he said. "It would never do for us to hand that man over to justice,
richly as he deserves his sentence. And you can help us if you will. Those men will search
every room in the house, including yours. If you are in there when they come and show a certain
amount of indignation--"

"Oh, I quite understand," Vera responded.

"And I will do what I can for that wretched creature."

"What is he doing now?" Le Fenu asked.

"He has huddled himself up in a wardrobe," Vera explained. "He seems so paralysed with fear
that I could not get anything like a coherent account of what had happened. Anyway, I will
go back to my room now. You need not be afraid for me."

As matters turned out, Vera had no time to spare, for she was hardly back in her room before
the detectives were at the door. She came out to them, coldly indignant, and demanded to know
what this conduct meant. As was only natural, the Americans were profoundly regretful and almost
abjectly polite, but they had their duty to perform, and they would be glad to know if Vera
had seen anything of Mark Fenwick, for whose apprehension they held a warrant.

"Well," Vera said, loftily, "you don't expect to find him in here, I suppose? Of course, if
your duty carries you so far as to ransack a lady's room, I will not prevent you."

The absolute iciness of the whole thing profoundly impressed the listeners. Astute as they
were, it never occurred to them that the girl was acting a part; furthermore, with their intimate
knowledge of Fenwick's past, they knew well enough that Vera had no cause to shield the man
of whom they were in search.

"We will not trouble you," Egan stammered. "It is a mere matter of form, and it would be absurd
to suppose that our man is concealed in your room. In all probability he received news of our
coming and got away without warning his companions. It is just the sort of thing that a man
of his type would do. We have the rest of the gang all safe, but we shall certainly have to
look elsewhere for their chief. Will you please accept our apologies?"

Vera waved the men aside haughtily. She was glad to turn her back upon them, so that they could
not see the expression of her face. She was trembling violently now, for her courage had suddenly
deserted her. For some long time she stood there in the corridor, until, presently, she heard
the noise of wheels as two vehicles drove away. Then, with a great sigh of relief, she recognised
the fact that the detectives had left the house. She opened the door of her room and called
aloud to Fenwick. She called again and again without response.

"You can come out," she said, contemptuously. "There is no cause to fear, for those men have gone."

A moment later the yellow, fear-distorted face of Mark Fenwick peeped out into the corridor.
He came shambling along on tottering limbs, and his coarse mouth twitched horribly. It seemed
to Vera as if she were looking at a mere travesty of the man who so short a time ago had been
so strong and masterful and courageous.

"They gave me a rare fright," Fenwick said in a senile way. He seemed to have aged twenty years
in the last few minutes. "That--that--was very cool and courageous of you, my dear. I couldn't
have done any better myself. You dear, kind girl. He advanced now and would have taken Vera's
hands in his, but she turned from him with loathing. She was wondering which she disliked most--the
cold, cruel, determined criminal, or this miserable wreck of a man glad to lean on anyone for
support.

"Don't touch me," she said, with a shudder. "Don't thank me for anything for I should have
handed you over to those men gladly, I was ready and willing to do so, only my brother recalled
to me the fact that the same blood runs in the veins of both of us. It was the remembrance
of this that made me lie just now, that caused me to run the risk of a criminal charge myself.
For I understand that anybody who harbors a thief for whose arrest a warrant has been issued,
runs the risk of going to gaol. And to think that Le Fenu should do a thing of that kind for
such a creature as yourself--it is too amazing."

"I suppose it is, my dear," Fenwick said in the same carneying voice. "I never expected to
find myself shielded behind a woman. But I have lost all my nerve lately, and the more I drink
to drown my troubles, the worse I get. But you must not think too badly of me, for I am not
so black as I am painted."

"Could you be any blacker?" Vera asked. "Could any human being have descended lower than you
have descended? I think not. You imagine because I threw in my lot with you three years ago
that I knew nothing of your crimes. As a matter of fact, I knew everything. I knew how you
had shifted the responsibility of that dastardly murder on to the shoulders of the man who
is in love with my sister Beth. It was for her sake that I pretended ignorance, for her sake
that I came with you to try to get to the bottom of your designs. What I have endured in the
time nobody but myself can know. But it has all come out now, and here am I to-day trying to
shield you from the very vengeance that I have been plotting for you all this time. Oh, don't
say anything, don't deny it, don't add more useless lies to the catalogue of your vices. Go
now. Let us see the last of you, and never intrude upon us again."

All this outburst of indignation had apparently been wasted on Fenwick for he did not appear
to be listening at all. He had enough troubles of his own, and, despite the fact that his nerve
had failed him, it was no feeling of remorse that left him stricken and trembling and broken
down before Vera's scornful eyes. He could only whine and protest that he was absolutely helpless.

"But what can I do?" he murmured, with tears in his eyes. "I am not so young as I was, indeed
I am much older than people take me for. I have no money and no friends, there is not a place
I can go to. Don't turn me out--let me stay here, where I shall be safe."

"It is impossible," Vera said, coldly. "We have done enough, and more than enough for you.
Now come this way, and I will hand you over to my brother and Mr. Evors. They are cleverer
than I am, and may be able to devise some means for getting you out of the country. Why don't
you come?"

"I can't," Fenwick almost sobbed. "There is something in my limbs that renders them powerless.
If you will give me your arm, I daresay I shall be able to get as far as the little room."

The touch of the man was pollution, yet Vera bravely endured it. She could hear the excited
servants talking in whispers downstairs, and one of them might appear at any moment. It would
be far better for the domestic staff to assume that the culprit had vanished, otherwise their
gossip would assuredly bring the detectives back again without delay. Vera was glad enough
when her task was finished and the trembling form of Mark Fenwick was lowered into a seat.
The cunning look was still in his eyes; the born criminal would never get rid of that expression,
though for the rest he was an object now more for pity than fear.

"It is very good of you," he said. "It is far better than I deserve. You will say I can't stay
here--"

"That is absolutely certain," Le Fenu said, coldly. "Most assuredly you can't remain here.
You may remain for the night, and Mr. Evors and myself will try and think of a plan between us."

"And Zary," Fenwick whispered. The mention of that dreaded name set him trembling again. "Keep
me away from Zary. I am afraid of a good many things, but the mere mention of that man's name
stops my heart beating and suffocates me."

"You had better go away," Le Fenu said to Vera, "and leave the wretched creature to us. There
will be no trouble in hiding him here for a bit. There are two rooms here that nobody knows
anything about except Evors and his father."

Vera was only too glad to get away into the open air, glad to feel that at last this nerve-destroying
mystery was coming to an end. She wanted to see Venner, too, and tell him all that had happened.
In all probability he was waiting at the accustomed spot. With a light heart and a feeling
of youthfulness upon her that she had not felt for some time, she set out on her journey.

CHAPTER XXVI

THE LAST FINGER

In the ordinary course of things, and but for the dramatic events of the evening, it would
have been about the time of night when dinner was finished and the house-party had gathered
in the drawing-room. It had been somewhere about seven when the Americans reached Merton Grange,
and now it was getting towards nine. It was not exactly the temperature at which one enjoys
an evening stroll, but the recent events had been so exciting that Vera felt how impossible
it would be to settle down to anything within the limits of the house. There was a moon, too,
which made all the difference in the world. As Vera walked along, she almost smiled to herself
to think how strange her conduct might look in the eyes of those formal people whose lives
run in conventional channels. She told herself more than once that it would be absurd to hope
to see Gerald at this time of night, but all the same she continued her journey across the park.

She had not so far to go as she expected, for presently she could see the glow of a cigar in
the distance, and Venner came up. A little joyful cry came from Vera.

"This is very fortunate," she said. "How lucky it is that I should run against you in this
fashion."

"Well, I was flattering myself that you came on purpose," Venner said. "And, after all, it
is not so very lucky, seeing that I have been hanging about this house on the chance of seeing
you since it became dark. But you look rather more disturbed and anxious than usual. My dear
girl, I do hope and trust that there are no new complications. I shall really have to take
you by force and carry you out of the country. Why should we have to go on living this miserable
kind of existence when we can take our happiness in both hands and enjoy it? Now don't tell
me that something fresh has occurred which will keep us apart, for another year or two? By
the way, have you had any visitors to-night?"

"What do you know about them?" Vera asked. "Have you found out anything about Mr. Fenwick?"

"Well, I should say so," Venner said, drily. "I have absolutely got to the bottom of that mysterious
coin business. In fact, I accompanied Egan and Grady to London, and I was with them when they
arrested that awful creature, Blossett. Egan and Grady are old friends of mine, and I told
them all about the strange coins and how you literally burnt your fingers over them. They were
coming down here to arrest Fenwick, and I offered to accompany them; but they declined my offer,
so I returned here alone, and have been hanging about the house, curious to know what had taken
place. Have they bagged our friend Fenwick yet?"

"It is about Mr. Fenwick that I wish to speak to you," Vera replied. "Mr. Evors is down here.
By the way, I don't know whether you are aware of the fact that he is the son of Lord Merton."

"Perhaps you had better tell me the story," Venner said.

"I am coming to that presently. Mr. Evors is down here; he is the man who is engaged to my
sister Beth."

Venner whistled softly to himself. At any rate, he knew all about that, for his mind went swiftly
back to the series of dramatic events which had taken place some time previously in the house
in Portsmouth Square. He recollected now the white-faced young man who had broken away from
his captors and joined Le Fenu, otherwise Bates, in the drawing-room. He recollected the joy
and delight of the girl, and how she had clung to the stranger as if he had come back to her
from the other side of the grave.

"There will be a great many things to be explained between us, presently," he said, gravely.
"But for the present, I want to know all about Fenwick. Where is he now?"

"He is hiding up at the house. I believe they have put him into a secret room, the whereabouts
of which is known only to Charles Evors. Of course, he will not stay."

"But why shield such a blackguard at all?" Venner asked. "Surely, after all the trouble he
has caused you--"

"You must not forget that he is our own flesh and blood," Vera said, quietly. "I had almost
ignored the fact--I am afraid I should have ignored it altogether had not my brother taken
a strong view of the matter. At any rate, there he is, and we are in a conspiracy to get him
safely out of the country. For the present the man is utterly broken down and absolutely incapable
of taking care of himself. I want you to do me a favor, Gerald. I want you to take a hand in
this business. While the police are still hot upon the track it would not be prudent for Mr.
Evors or my brother to be too much in evidence just now."

"My dearest girl, I would do anything in the world for you," Venner cried. "And if I am to
take that sorry old rascal out of the country and get rid of him altogether, I will do so with
pleasure and never count the cost. If I could see your brother--"

"Then why not come and see him now?" Vera said. "You will have to meet sooner or later, and
there could be no better opportunity for an explanation."

To Le Fenu and Evors smoking in the dining-room came Vera and Venner. Le Fenu looked up with
a sort of mild surprise and perhaps just a suspicion of mistrust in his eyes.

"Whom have we here, Vera?" he said.

"This is Mr. Gerald Venner," Vera said. "You know him perfectly well by name--he was with us,
on and off, for a considerable time before our poor father died. Father had a great regard
for him, and I hope you will have the same, for a reason which I am just going to mention."

"I am sure I am very pleased to meet you," Le Fenu said, politely. "This is my friend, Mr.
Charles Evors, the only son of the owner of the house. When I come to look at you, Mr. Venner,
I confess that your appearance pleases me, but I have had to deal with so many suspicious characters
lately that really--"

"Don't apologise," Venner laughed. "You will have to make the best of me. I came here to-night
with Vera to have a thorough explanation of certain matters."

"Oh, indeed," Le Fenu responded with uplifted brows. "My sister and you appear to be on very
familiar terms--"

"It is only natural," Vera laughed. A vivid blush flooded her face. "Charles, Mr. Venner is
my husband."

"I am not in the least surprised to hear it," Le Fenu said. "In fact, I am not surprised at
anything. I have quite outgrown all emotions of that kind, but perhaps you will be good enough
to tell me how this came about, and why I have not heard it before. As your brother, I am entitled
to know."

"Of course, you are. It was just after our father died that I promised myself to Gerald. I
had my own ideas why the marriage should be kept a secret. You see, I had more or less thrown
in my lot with my uncle, Mark Fenwick, because I had determined to get to the bottom of the
business of our father's death. I felt certain that Charles here had nothing to do with it;
though, owing to his folly and weakness, he played directly into the hands of the man who was
really responsible for the crime."

"We all know who is responsible for the crime," Le Fenu said. "There is no necessity to mention
his name."

"Oh, I know that," Vera went on. "The explanation I am making now is more to my husband than
either of you. He has been goodness and kindness itself, and he is entitled to know everything.
It was within a few minutes of my being married that I learned something of the dreadful truth.
I learned that Fenwick had conspired to throw the blame of the tragedy upon Charles Evors.
I found out what an effect this conspiracy had had on our poor Beth. There and then I came
to a great resolution. I wrote to my husband and told him that in all probability I could never
see him again--at any rate, I could not see him for a long space of time. I implored him to
trust me in spite of all appearances, and he did so. Now he knows the reason why I acted so
strangely. I can see that he has a thousand questions to ask me, but I hope that he will refrain
from doing so at present. The thing that troubles me now is what has become of poor little Beth."

"Oh, she is all right enough," Le Fenu said. "I thought of that before I came down. I have
left her in the safe hands of the very clever doctor who has my case under his charge, and
Beth is with his family. We can have her down here to-morrow if you like."

"Nothing would please me better," Vera said, fervently. "And now, I want to know if you have
done anything or formed any plan for getting rid of Mark Fenwick. I shall not be able to breathe
here until he is gone."

Le Fenu explained that they had come to no conclusion at present. He was quite alive to the
fact that delay was dangerous, seeing that Lord Merton's agents would have to communicate with
him by telegram, and that the owner of the house might be back again at any moment. Therefore,
it was absolutely necessary that something should be done in the matter of Mark Fenwick without
loss of time. Vera indicated her companion.

"That is why I brought Gerald here," she said.

"I thought he might he able to help us. He knows all sorts and conditions of people, and it
is probable that he may be able to find an asylum in London where the wretched man upstairs
can hide till it is quite safe to get him out of the way."

"I think I can manage that part of the programme," Venner said. "There is an old servant of
mine living down Poplar way with his wife who will do anything I ask him. The man has accompanied
me all over the world, and he is exceedingly handy in every way. Those people would take a
lodger to oblige me, and when you come to think of it, Poplar is not at all a bad place for
anybody who wants to get out of the country without being observed. It is close to the river,
and all sorts of craft are constantly going up and down. What do you think of the idea?"

"Excellent," Evors cried. "Couldn't be better. Do you think those people would mind if you
looked them up very late to-night?"

"Not in the least," Venner said. "There is only one drawback, and that is the danger of traveling."

Le Fenu suggested that the difficulty could be easily overcome by the use of Fenwick's motor,
which, fortunately, the detectives had brought back with them when they came in search of the
culprit. It was an easy matter to rig Fenwick up in something suggestive of a feminine garb
and smuggle him out into the grounds, and thence to the stable, where the motor was waiting.
Fenwick came downstairs presently, a pitiable object. His mind still seemed wandering; but
he braced himself up and became a little more like his old self when the plan of action was
explained to him. Vera drew a deep breath of relief when once the man was outside the house.

"Thank God, we shall never see him again," she said, fervently. "And now, I believe I could
eat something. It is the first time that the idea of food has been pleasant to me for days."

Meanwhile, Venner and Fenwick were speeding along in the car towards London. Perhaps it was
the knowledge that safety lay before him, perhaps it was the exhilaration caused by the swift
motion of the car, but Fenwick became more and more like himself as they began to near the
Metropolis.

"This is very kind of you," he said, "considering you are a stranger to me. If you only knew
my unfortunate story--"

"I know your story perfectly," Venner said, coldly. "You see, I had the pleasure of the friendship
of the late Mr. George Le Fenu, and Mr. Evors and the younger Mr. Le Fenu are also known to
me. Not to be behindhand in exchanging confidence for confidence, I may also say that your
niece, Vera, is my wife."

Fenwick said no more, for which Venner was profoundly grateful. They came at length to the
little house in Poplar, where Fenwick was smuggled in, and a certain part of the story confided
to a seafaring man and his comfortable, motherly wife, who professed themselves ready and willing
to do anything that Venner asked them.

"Give him a sitting-room and a bedroom," Venner said; "and take this ten-pound note and buy
him a rough workman's wardrobe in the morning as if you were purchasing it for yourself. Let
him lie low here for a day or two, and I will write you instructions. As to myself, I must
get back to Canterbury without delay."

Trembling with a sort of fearful joy, Fenwick found himself presently in a comfortable sitting-room
at the back of the house. He noted the cleanliness of the place, and his heart lightened within
him. Something of his own stern self-reliant courage was coming back to him; his busy mind
began to plan for the future. Presently he was conscious of a healthy desire to eat and drink.
In response to his ring, the landlady informed him that she had some cold meat in the house,
and that it was not yet too late to send out for some wine if he desired it.

"Very well," Fenwick said in high good-humor. "Give me the cold meat, and ask your husband
to get me a bottle of brandy. I shall feel all the better for a thorough wash, and don't be
long, my good woman, for I have never been so hungry in my life as I am now."

Fenwick returned to the sitting-room a few minutes later to find a decent meal spread out for
him. There was cheese and butter and some cold meat under a metal cover. A bottle of brandy
stood by the side of Fenwick's plate, with a syphon of soda-water. He took a hearty pull of
the mixture. The generous spirit glowed in his veins. He would cheat the world yet.

"And now for the food," he said. "I trust it is beef. Nothing like beef on occasions like this.
Also--"

He raised the cover from a dish. Then he jumped to his feet with a snarling oath. He could
only stand there trembling in every limb, with a fascinated gaze on the dish before him.

"God help me," he whispered. "There is no getting away from it. The last warning--the fourth
finger!"

CHAPTER XXVII

NEMESIS

For a long space of time Fenwick stood there, his head buried in his hands. All the way through,
he had never been able to disguise from himself the feeling that, sooner or later, this dread
thing must happen. Years ago he had taken his life in his hands in exploring the recesses of
the Four Finger Mine; he had more or less known what he had to expect, for the mine had been
a sacred thing, almost a part of the religion of the diminishing tribe which had imparted the
secret to Le Fenu, and any intruder was bound to suffer. So far as Fenwick knew, the last survivor
of this tribe was Felix Zary. Leaving out of account altogether the latter's religious fanaticism,
he had been deeply and sincerely attached to the family of Le Fenu, and now he was playing
the part of the avenging genius. All these things came back to Fenwick as he sat there.

He knew full well the character of the man he had to deal with; he knew how clever and resourceful
Felix Zary was. Hitherto, he had scorned the suggestion that there was some mysterious magic
behind Zary's movements, but now he did not know what to think. All he knew was that he was
doomed, and that all the police in the Metropolis could not shield him from the reach of Zary's
long arm.

And here, indeed, was proof positive of the fact. Two hours before, nobody, not even Fenwick
himself, knew that he would spend the night at the little house in Poplar. And here was Zary
already upon his track, almost before he had started on the long journey which was intended
to lead to the path of safety. Fenwick never troubled to think what had become of the meal
prepared for him, or how the extraordinary change had been brought about. Gradually, as he
sat there, something like strength and courage came back to him. Come what might, he would
not yield, he would not surrender himself into the hands of the foe without a struggle. He
replaced the cover on the dish, and rang the bell for his landlady. She came in a moment later,
comfortable and smiling, the very picture of respectable middle-age. As Fenwick glanced at
her, he at once acquitted her of any connection with his final warning.

"I am sorry to trouble you," he said, "but I should like to know if you have any other lodgers.
You see, I am rather a bad sleeper, suffering a great deal from nightmare, and I should not
like to alarm your other lodgers in the middle of the night."

"Lord bless you, sir," the woman said, "we haven't any lodgers at all. We don't need to take
them, seeing that my man is comfortably fixed. Of course, we are pleased to do anything we
can for you, but we shouldn't have had you here at all if it hadn't been to please Mr. Venner.
We'd do anything for him."

"No doubt," Fenwick said, hastily. "I suppose your husband sees a good many of his old friends
occasionally?"

"No, he doesn't," the woman replied. "I don't suppose we have had anybody in the house except
yourself for the last two months. I hope you have enjoyed your supper, sir?"

"Oh, yes," Fenwick stammered. "I finished all the meat. There is one thing more I should like
to ask you. I may have to go out presently, late as it is. Do you happen to have such a thing
as a latchkey? If you haven't, the key of the front door will do."

The latchkey was forthcoming, and presently Fenwick heard his landlord and his wife going upstairs
to bed. He did not feel comfortable until he had crept all over the house and seen that everything
was made secure. Then he sat down to think the matter out. Twice he helped himself liberally
to brandy, a third time his hand went mechanically to the bottle--then he drew back.

"I mustn't have any more of that," he said. "It would be simply playing into the hands of the
fiend who is pursuing me."

With a resolution that cost him an effort, Fenwick locked the brandy away in a cupboard and
threw the key out of the window. In his present state of mind he dared not trust himself too
far. Partially divesting himself of his clothing he drew from about his waist a soft leather
belt containing pockets, and from these pockets he produced a large amount of gold coins and
a packet of banknotes. Altogether there were some hundreds of pounds, and Fenwick congratulated
himself on the foresight which had led him to adopt this plan in case necessity demanded it.
He had enough and more than enough to take him to the other side of the world, if only he could
manage to get rid of Felix Zary.

His mind was made up at length; he would creep out of the house in the dead of the night and
make his way down to the Docks. At every hour ships of various size and tonnage put out of
the port of London, and, no doubt, the skipper of one of these for a consideration would take
him wherever he wanted to go; and Fenwick knew, moreover, that there were scores of public-houses
along the side of the river which are practically never closed, and which are run entirely
for the benefit of seafaring men. It would be easy to make inquiries at some of these and discover
what vessels were leaving by the next tide, and a bargain could be struck immediately, go far
as Fen wick was concerned, he inclined towards a sailing ship bound for the Argentine. His
spirits rose slightly at the prospect before him; his step was fairly light and buoyant as
he proceeded in the direction of his bedroom. There was no light in the room, so that he had
to fumble about in his pockets for a box of matches which fell from his fingers and dropped
on to the floor.

"Confound it," Fenwick muttered. "Where are they?"

"Don't trouble," a calm, quiet voice said out of the darkness. "I have matches, with which
I will proceed to light the gas."

Fenwick could have cried aloud, had he been physically able to do so. There was no reason for
a light to be struck or the gas to be lighted so that he might see the face of the speaker.
Indeed, he recognised the voice far too well for that. A moment later, he was gazing at the
impassive face of Felix Zary.

"You did not expect to see me," the latter said. "You were under the impression that you were
going to get away from me. Never did man make a greater mistake. It matters little what you
do, it will matter nothing to you or anybody else in twelve hours from now. Do you realise
the fact that you have but that time to live? Do you understand that?"

"You would murder me?" Fenwick said hoarsely.

"You may calm yourself on that score. You are unarmed, and I have not so much as a pocket knife
in my possession. I shall not lay a hand upon you--I shall not peril my soul for the sake of
a creature like you. There are other ways and other methods of which you know nothing."

"How did you get here?" Fenwick asked hoarsely. "How did you put that dreadful thing on my table?"

Zary smiled in a strange, bland fashion. He could have told Fenwick prosaically what a man
with a grasp like his could do in connection with a water pipe. He could have told, also, how
he had dogged and watched his victim within the last few hours, with the pertinacity of a bloodhound.
But Zary could see how Fenwick was shaken and dazed by some terrible thing which he could not
understand. It was no cue of Zary's to enlighten the miserable man opposite.

"There are things utterly beyond your comprehension," he said, calmly. "If you look back to
the past you will remember how we laid our mark upon the man who stole the Four Finger Mine.
That man, I need not say, was yourself. To gain your ends you did not scruple to take the life
of your greatest friend, the greatest benefactor you ever had. You thought the thing out carefully.
You devised a cunning scheme whereby you might become rich and powerful at the expense of George
Le Fenu, and scarcely was the earth dry upon his coffin before your warnings came. You knew
the legend of the Four Finger Mine, and you elected to defy it. A week went by, a week during
which you took the gold from the mine, and all seemed well with you. Then you woke one morning
to find that in the night you had lost your forefinger without the slightest pain and with
very little loss of blood. That was the first sign of the vengeance of the genius of the mine.
Shaken and frightened as you were, you hardened your heart, like Pharaoh of old, and determined
to continue. Another week passed, and yet another finger vanished in the same mysterious fashion.
Still, you decided to stand the test, and your third warning came. With the fourth warning,
your nerves utterly gave way, and you fled from the mine with less ill-gotten gain than you
had expected. It matters nothing to me what followed afterwards, but you will admit that at
the present moment you have not benefitted much by your crime. I have nothing more to say to
you. I only came here tonight just to prove to you how impossible it is for you to hide from
the vengeance of the mine. In your last bitter moments I want you to think of my words and
realise--"

As Zary spoke he moved across the room in the direction of the gas bracket; he laid his hand
upon the tap, and a moment later the room was in darkness. There was a sound like the sliding
of a window, followed by a sudden rush of cold air, and by the time that Fenwick had found
his matches and lighted the gas again there was not so much as a trace of Zary to be seen.

"I wish I hadn't thrown away the key of that cupboard," Fenwick said, hoarsely. "I would give
half I possess for one drop of brandy now. Still, I won't give in, I won't be beaten by that
fellow. At any rate, he can't possibly know what I intend to do. He could not know that I shall
be on board a vessel before morning."

Half an hour later, Fenwick left the house and made his way straight to the Docks. At a public-house
in the vicinity he obtained the brandy that he needed so badly, and felt a little stiffened
and braced up by the spirit. He found presently the thing he wanted, in the shape of a large
barque bound for the River Plate. The skipper, a burly-looking man with an enormous black beard,
was uproariously drunk, but not quite so intoxicated that he could not see the business side
of a bargain.

"Oh, you want to go out with me, mister?" he said. "Well, that's easily enough managed. We've
got no passengers on board, and you'll have to rough it with the rest of us. I don't mind taking
you on for fifty pounds."

"That's a lot of money," Fenwick protested.

The black-bearded skipper winked solemnly at the speaker.

"There's always a risk in dealing with stolen goods," he said. "Besides fifty pounds isn't
much for a man who wants to get out of the country as badly as I see you do, and once I have
passed my word to do it, I'll see you safe through, and so will my crew, or I'll know the reason
why. Now, my yellow pal, fork out that money, and in half an hour you'll be as safe as if you
were on the other side of the herring-pond and not a policeman in London will know where to
find you. Now, is it a bargain or not?"

Fenwick made no further demur; he accepted the conditions there and then. There was nothing
to be gained by affecting to pose as an honest man, and he was a little frightened to find
how easily this drunken ruffian had spotted him for a fugitive from justice.

"I can't give you the money just now," he whispered. "I've got it concealed about me, and to
produce a lot of cash in a mixed company like this would be too dangerous."

The skipper nodded, and proposed further refreshment. Fenwick agreed eagerly enough; he was
feeling desperate now, and he did not seem to care much what happened to him. He could afford
to place himself entirely in the hands of the black-bearded skipper, who would look after him
closely for his own sake. After all said and done, he had no cause to doubt the honesty of
the seaman, who appeared to be fairly popular with his companions and well-known in the neighborhood.
It was the best part of an hour before the commander of the barque staggered to his feet and
announced in an incoherent voice that it was time to get aboard. Presently they were straggling
down to the dock, Fenwick propping up his companion and wondering if the latter was sober enough
to find his way to his ship. It was very dark; a thin rain had begun to fall, and the waters
of the river were ruffled by an easterly breeze. The skipper stumbled down a flight of steps
and into a roomy boat, which was prevented from capsizing by something like a miracle. Presently
they came alongside the black hull of a vessel, and Fenwick found himself climbing up a greasy
ladder on to a dirty deck, where two seamen were passing the time playing a game of cards.
Down below, the skipper indicated a stuffy little bunk leading out of his own cabin, which
he informed Fenwick would be placed at his disposal for the voyage.

"If you don't mind I'll turn in now," the latter said. "I'm dead tired and worn out. My nerves
are all jumping like red hot wires. Do you think I shall be safe here?"

"Safe as houses!" the skipper said. "And, besides, we shall be dropping down the river in about
an hour."

Just as he was, Fenwick rolled into the bunk, and in a moment was fast asleep. When he came
to himself again, the vessel was pitching and rolling; he could hear the rattling creak of
blocks and rigging; there was a sweeter and fresher atmosphere in the little cabin. A sense
of elation possessed the fugitive. It seemed to him that he was absolutely safe at last. The
skipper had evidently gone on deck after having finished his breakfast, for the plates lay
about the table and some tepid coffee in a tin had apparently been left for the use of the
passenger.

"I don't think much of this," Fenwick muttered. "Still I daresay I can better it if I pay for
it. I'll go on deck presently and see what the black-bearded pirate has to say. At any rate,
I am absolutely safe now, and can afford to laugh at the threats of Felix Zary. If that man
thinks--"

Fenwick paused, and the knife and fork he was holding over the cold bacon fell from his hands.
It was too cruel, the irony of Fate too bitter, for there, just in front of him, propped up
by the sugar basin, was a cabinet photograph of the very man who was uppermost in his thoughts.
It was Felix Zary to the life; the same calm, philosophic features, the same great round eyes
like those of a Persian cat. It all came back to Fenwick now, the whole horror of the situation.
His head whirled, and spots seemed to dance before his eyes; a string snapped somewhere in
his brain. Zary was behind him, he thought, close behind him like an avenging fury.

With a horrid scream, Fenwick tumbled up the stairs on to the slippery deck. All round him
was a wild waste of white waters. The ship heeled over as Fenwick darted to the side....

CHAPTER XXVIII

EXPLANATIONS

Night was beginning to fight with morning by the time that Venner returned to Merton Grange.
There was no one to be seen; the house was in total darkness, so that Venner placed the motor
in the stable and returned to his own rooms. On the whole, he was disposed to congratulate
himself upon the result of his night's work. It mattered very little to himself or anybody
else what became of Fenwick, now he was once out of the way. He was never likely to trouble
them again, and as far as Venner could see, he was now in a position openly to claim his wife
before all the world.

Despite his feeling of happiness, Venner slept but badly, and a little after ten o'clock the
next morning found him back at Merton Grange. Evors greeted him cordially, with the information
that he alone was up as yet, and that the others had doubtless taken advantage of the opportunity
to get a good night's rest.

"And you will see, my dear fellow," he said, "how necessary such a thing is. Goodness knows
how long it is since I went to bed with my mind absolutely at rest. The same remark applies
with equal force to Miss Le Fenu--I mean your wife."

"I can quite understand that," Venner said. "It has been much the same with me, though I must
confess that I was so happy last night that I could not sleep at all. By the way, have you
any information as to your father's movements? He probably knows by this time that his house
has been given over to a gang of swindlers."

"He does," Evors said. "I have had a telegram from him this morning to say that he will be
home some time in the course of the day; and, to tell the truth, I am looking forward with
some dread to meeting my father. But I think I shall be able to convince him now that I am
in earnest and that I am anxious to settle down in the old place and take my share in the working
of the estate. When my father sees Beth and knows her story, I am sanguine that he will give
us a welcome, and that my adventures will be over. I want him to meet Beth down here, and last
night after you had gone, and we were talking matters over, Vera promised to go up to town
to-day and fetch her sister. By the way, what has become of your friend--Gurdon, I think his
name is? I mean the fellow who very nearly lost his life the night he fell down the cellar
trap and found himself landed in the house in Portsmouth Square."

"Oh, Gurdon's all right," Venner laughed.

"I hope you will have the chance of making his acquaintance in the course of the day. You seem
to have been in Charles Le Fenu's confidence for some time--tell me, why all that mystery about
the house in Portsmouth Square? Of course, I don't mean Le Fenu's reason for calling himself
Bates, and all that kind of thing, because that was perfectly obvious. Under the name of Bates
he was lying low and maturing his plans for crushing Fenwick. As a matter of fact, Fenwick
was almost too much for him. Indeed, he would have been if Gurdon and myself had not interfered
and given both of you a chance to escape. It was a very neat idea of Fenwick's to kidnap a
man and keep him a prisoner in his own house."

"Yes," Evors said. "And he used his own house for illegal purposes. But before I answer your
question, let me ask you one. Why was Gurdon prowling about Portsmouth Square that night?"

"That is quite easily explained," Venner replied. "I sent him. To go back to the beginning
of things, I have to revert to the night when I first saw Mark Fenwick at the Great Empire
Hotel, posing as a millionaire, and having for company a girl who passed as his daughter. Seeing
that this pseudo Miss Fenwick was my own wife, you can imagine how interested I was. She has
already told in your hearing the reason why she left me on our wedding day, and if I am satisfied
with those reasons it is nothing to do with anybody. As a matter of fact, I am satisfied with
them, and there is no more to be said; but when I ran against Vera again at the hotel I knew
nothing of past events, and I made an effort to find out the cause of her apparently strange
conduct. In a way, she was fighting against me; she would tell me nothing, and I had to find
out everything for myself. On the night in question I sent Gurdon to Portsmouth Square, and
he had the misfortune to betray himself."

"It nearly ended in his death," Evors said, soberly. "Charles Le Fenu was very bitter just
about that time. You can quite understand how it was that he mistook Gurdon for one of Fenwick's
spies. But why did he go there?"

"He followed my wife, and there you have the simple explanation of the whole thing. But you
have not yet told me why those two or three rooms were furnished in the empty house."

"Who told you about that?" Evors asked.

"What a chap you are to ask questions! We got into the empty house after the so-called Bates
was supposed to have been kidnapped, and to our surprise we found that all that fine furniture
had vanished. There was no litter of straw or sign of removal outside, so we came to the conclusion
that it had been conveyed from one house to the other. After a good deal of trouble, we lit
upon a moveable panel, and by means of it entered the house where you and Le Fenu were practically
prisoners. We were on the premises when you managed to get the better of that man in the carpet
slippers and his companion; we heard all that took place in the drawing-room between Fenwick
and Beth and Le Fenu. In fact, we aided and abetted in getting the police into the house. You
will recollect how cleverly Le Fenu managed the rest, and how he and you got away from the
house without causing any scandal. That was very smartly done. But come, are you going to tell
me the story of the empty house, and why it was partly furnished?"

"I think I can come to that now," Evors said. "The whole thing was born in the ingenious brain
of Felix Zary. He was going to lay some sort of trap for Fenwick, but we shall never know what
it was now, because Fate has disposed of Fenwick in some other way. Now, won't you sit down
and have some breakfast with me?"

At the same moment Vera came in. Familiar as her features were and well as Venner knew her,
there was a brightness and sweetness about her now that he had never noticed before. The cloud
seemed to have lifted from her face; her eyes were no longer sad and sombre--they were beaming
with happiness.

"I am so glad you have come," she said. "We want you to know all that happened last night after
you had gone."

Venner explained that he knew pretty well all that had taken place, as he had been having it
all out with Evors. What he wanted now was to get Vera to himself, and presently he had his way.

"We are going for a long walk," he said, "where I have something serious to say to you. Now
that you have no longer any troubles on your shoulders, I can be very firm with you--"

"Not just yet," Vera laughed. "Later on you can be as firm as you like, and we are not going
for a long walk either. We shall just have time to get to the station and catch the 11.15 to
Victoria. I am going up to London to-day to bring Beth down here. I think the change will do
her good. Of course, we can't remain in the house, so I have taken rooms for the three of us
at a farm close by. When Beth has had everything explained to her and knows that the man she
loves is free, you will see a change for the better in the poor child. There is nothing really
the matter with her mind, and when she realises her happiness she will soon be as well as any
of us. You will come with me to London, Gerald?"

"My dearest girl, of course I will," Venner said. "I will do anything you like. Let us get
these things pushed through as speedily as possible, so that we can start on our honeymoon,
which has been delayed for a trifling matter of three years, and you cannot say that I have
been unduly impatient."

Vera raised herself on her toes and threw her arms round her husband's neck. She kissed him
twice. There were tears in her eyes, but there was nothing but happiness behind the tears,
as Venner did not fail to notice.

"You have been more than good," she whispered. "Ah, if you only knew how I have missed you,
how terrified I was lest you should take me at my word and abandon me to my fate, as you had
every right to do. And yet, all the time, I had a curious feeling that you trusted me, though
I dared not communicate with you and tell you where you could send me so much as a single line.
I was fearful lest a passionate appeal from you should turn me from my purpose. You see, I
had pledged myself to fight the battle for Beth and her lover, and for the best part of three
years I did so. And the strangest part of it all is that you, my husband, from whom I concealed
everything, should be the very one who eventually struck straight to the heart of the mystery."

"Yes, that's all right enough," Venner smiled, "but why could not you have confided in me in
the first instance? Do you think that I should have refused to throw myself heart and soul
into the affair and do my best to help those who were dear to you?"

"I suppose I lost my head," Vera murmured. "But do not let us waste too much time regretting
the last three years; and do not let us waste too much time at all, or we shall lose our train."

"That is bringing one back to earth with a vengeance," Venner laughed. "But come along and
let us get all the business over, and we can look eagerly forward to the pleasure of afterwards."

It was all done at length--the long explanation was made in the West End doctor's drawing-room,
and at length Beth seemed to understand the complicated story that was told her. She listened
very carefully, her questions were well chosen; then she flung herself face downwards on the
couch where she was seated and burst into a passion of weeping. Vera held her head tenderly,
and made a sign to Venner that he should leave them together.

"This is the best thing that could happen," she whispered. "If you will come back in an hour's
time you will see an entirely different girl. Don't speak to her now."

It was exactly as Vera had predicted, for when Venner returned presently to the drawing-room,
he found a bright, alert little figure clad in furs and eager for her journey. She danced across
the room to Venner and held up her lips for him to kiss them.

"I understand it all now," she cried. "Vera has told me absolutely everything. How good and
noble it was of her to sacrifice her happiness for the sake of Charles and myself, and how
wicked I must have been ever to think that Charles could have been guilty of that dreadful
crime. Ever since then there has been a kind of cloud over my mind, a certain sense of oppression
that made everything dim before my eyes. I could not feel, I could not even shed a tear. I
seemed to be all numb and frozen, and when the tears came just now, all the ice melted away
and I became myself again. Don't you think I look quite different?"

"I think you look as if you would be all the better for a lot of care and fussing," Venner
said. "You want to go to some warm spot and be petted like a child. Now let us go and say good-bye
to these good friends of yours and get down to Canterbury. There is somebody waiting for you
there who will bring back the roses to your pale cheeks a great deal better than I can."

"Isn't Mr. Gurdon coming with us?" Vera asked.

"He can't" Venner explained. "I've just been telephoning to him, and he says that he can't
come down till the last train. He will just look in presently after dinner--he is sharing my
rooms with me. But hadn't we better get along?"

Canterbury was reached at length, and then Merton Grange, where Le Fenu and Evors were waiting
in the portico. Lord Merton had not yet arrived: indeed, Evors explained that it was very uncertain
whether he would get there that night or not.

"Not that it makes much difference," he said, eagerly. "Of course, you will all dine with me.
For my part, I can't see why you shouldn't stay here altogether."

"What?" Vera cried, "without a chaperon?"

"I like that," Le Fenu exclaimed. "What do you call yourself? Have you so soon forgotten the
fact that you are a staid married woman? What do you think of that, Venner?"

Vera laughed and blushed softly; she was not thinking so much now of her own happiness as of
the expression of joy and delight on the face of her sister. Beth had hung back a little shyly
from Evors as they crossed the hall, and he, in his turn, was constrained and awkward. Very
cleverly Vera managed to detach her husband and her brother from the others.

"Let them go into the dining-room," she whispered. "It doesn't matter what becomes of us."

"But is she really equal to the excitement of it?" Le Fenu asked, anxiously. "She must have
had an exceedingly trying day."

"I am quite sure that she is perfectly safe," Vera said. "Of course, she was terribly excited
and upset at first, but she was quite calm and rational all the way down, as Gerald will tell
you. All Beth wants now is quiet and change, and to feel that her troubles are over. Let's
go and have tea in that grand old hall. If the others don't care to come in to tea we will
try not to be offended."

The others did not come in to tea, neither were they seen till it was nearly time to dress
for dinner. Assuredly Vera had proved a true prophet, for Beth's shy, quiet air of happiness
indicated that she had suffered nothing through the events of the day. It was a very quiet
meal they had later on, but none the less pleasant for that. Dinner had come to an end and
the cigarettes were on the table before Gurdon appeared. He carried a copy of an evening paper
in his hand, and despite his usual air of calmness and indifference, there was just the suspicion
of excitement about him that caused Venner to stand up and reach for the paper.

"You have news there for us, I am sure," he said. "I think we are all in a position to stand
anything you like to tell us."

"You have guessed it correctly," Gurdon said. "It is all here in the Evening Herald."

"What is all here?" Le Fenu demanded.

"Can't you guess?" Gurdon asked. "I see you can't. It is the dramatic conclusion, the only
conclusion of the story. Our late antagonist, Fenwick, has committed suicide!"

CHAPTER XXIX

THIS MORTAL COIL

It cannot be said that Gurdon's announcement caused any particular sensation. To all of those
who knew anything about the inner history of the Four Finger Mine the conclusion appeared to
be perfectly logical. It was Venner who mentioned the secret of the mine before anybody had
even the curiosity to ask to see the paper.

"Do you think that this has been the outcome of anything that Zary did?" he asked Le Fenu.
"You see, as far as I am concerned, I was only in the mine once or twice, and before your father's
death my knowledge of its romantic history was limited. I can't altogether bring myself to
believe that the mine was haunted by avenging spirits and all that kind of thing. In this twentieth
century of ours, one is naturally very cynical about such matters."

"I really cannot tell you," Le Fenu replied. "Of course there must be human agency afoot. Zary
always declared that he was the last of his tribe, and when he died the secret of the mine
would belong to our family alone. As a matter of fact, my father died first, so that Zary alone
is in possession of the strange secret of that dread place. One thing is very certain. It was
none of us who took vengeance on the Dutchman who murdered my father. Who was responsible for
that I do not know. Still, there was something very terrible and awe-striking about the way
in which the Dutchman's fingers returned to his wife, one by one. I should like to have known,
also, how Fenwick lost his fingers. But Zary would never tell me. I think he professed that
it had been done through the agency of the spirits of his departed ancestors, who guarded the
mine. Mind you, I don't say that it is impossible, for we are beginning to understand that
there are hidden forces in Nature which till quite recently were a sealed book to us. It is
no use speculating about the matter, because we shall never know. Zary has been always fond
of us, but I have a feeling now that we shall never see him again. I believe he came to England
on purpose to accomplish the death of Mark Fenwick, and you may rely upon it that he will vanish
now without making any further sign."

"That is more than possible," Gurdon said, thoughtfully; "but so far as I can judge from what
this paper says, Fenwick's death seems to have been prosaic enough. Perhaps I had better read
you the account in the newspaper."

Without waiting for any further permission, Gurdon began to read aloud:--

"STRANGE SUICIDE IN THE CHANNEL.

"DEATH OF MR. MARK FENWICK.

"Late this afternoon the barque British Queen put back into the Port of London with the schooner
Red Cross in tow. It appears that the barque in question was bound for the River Plate, and
had dropped down the river with the morning tide. Outside the mouth of the Thames she had encountered
exceedingly squally weather, so much so that she had lost a considerable amount of running
gear owing to the gusty and uncertain condition of the wind. About eleven o'clock in the morning
an extra violent squall struck the vessel, and the skipper, Luther Jones, decided to put back
again and wait till the next tide. It was at this point that the Red Cross was sighted making
signals of distress. At considerable hazard to himself and his crew the skipper of the British
Queen managed to get the schooner in tow, and worked her up the river on a short sail. This
in itself is simply an incident illustrating the perils of the sea, and merely leads up to
the dramatic events which follow. It appears, according to Captain Jones' statement, that very
early this morning a man called upon him in a public-house and demanded to know what he would
require for a passage to the River Plate. Satisfactory terms having been arranged, the stranger
came aboard the British Queen and immediately repaired to his bunk. So far as the captain could
see, his passenger was exceedingly reticent, and desirous of avoiding publicity; in fact, the
skipper of the British Queen put him down as a fugitive from justice. All the same he asked
no questions; presumably he had been well content to hold his tongue in return for a liberal
fee in the way of passage money. So far as Captain Jones knows, his passenger slept comfortably
enough, and it is quite evident that he partook of breakfast in the morning. What happened
subsequently, it is somewhat difficult to say, for Captain Jones was busy on his own deck looking
after the safety of his ship. These events took place shortly before the Red Cross was sighted.

"It was at this time that Captain Jones believes that he heard a shrill scream coming from
the cabin, as if his passenger had met with an accident, or had been frightened by something
out of the common. He came on deck a moment later, looking like a man who had developed a dangerous
mania. He seemed to be flying from some unseen terror, and, indeed, gave every indication suggestive
of the conclusion that he was suffering from a severe attack of delirium tremens. Captain Jones
does not share this view, though it is generally accepted by his crew. Before anybody could
interfere or stretch out a hand to detain the unfortunate man, he had reached the side of the
vessel and thrown himself into the tremendous sea which was running at the time. It was absolutely
out of the question to make any attempt to save him, though, naturally, Captain Jones did what
he could. Then occurred one of the strange things which so frequently happen at sea. Five minutes
later a great wave breaking over the foredeck cast some black object at the feet of Captain
Jones, which object turned out to be the body of the unhappy suicide. The man was quite dead;
indeed, he had sustained enough bodily injuries to cause death, without taking drowning into
consideration.

"As before stated, Captain Jones came in contact with the Red Cross a little later, and on
reaching the safety of the Pool he immediately communicated with the police, who took possession
of the body of the suicide. On Scotland Yard being communicated with, a detective was sent
down and immediately recognised the body as that of Mr. Mark Fenwick, the American millionaire.

"No doubt is entertained that the police officer is right, as Mr. Fenwick was well-known to
thousands of people in London, not only on account of his wealth, but owing, also, to his remarkable
personal appearance. At the present moment the body lies in a public-house by the side of the
Thames, and an inquest will be held in the morning.

"Later.--Since going to press, we hear that startling developments are expected in the matter
of the suicide of Mr. Mark Fenwick. On excellent authority we are informed that the police
hold a warrant for the arrest of Fenwick and others, on a series of criminal charges, among
which that of uttering counterfeit coin is not the least prominent. If these facts prove to
be correct, it will be easy to see why Mr. Fenwick was attempting to leave the country in fugitive
fashion. Further details will appear in a later edition."

"That is the whole of the story," Gurdon said when he had concluded. "On the whole, I should
say that Mark Fenwick is very well out of it. He has had a pretty fair innings, but Fate has
been too strong for him in the long run. It is just as well, too, that he has escaped his punishment--I
mean, for your sakes, more than anything else. If that man had been put upon his trial, a charge
of murder would have been added sooner or later, and you would have all been dragged from police
court to criminal court to give evidence over and over again. In fact, you would have been
the centre of an unpleasant amount of vulgar curiosity. As it is, the inquest will be more
or less of a formal affair, and the public will never know that Fenwick has been anything more
than a common swindler."

Venner was emphatically of the same view; personally, he was exceedingly glad to think that
the knot had been cut in this fashion and that the unpleasant business was ended. He discussed
the matter thoughtfully with Gurdon as he and the latter walked in the direction of his rooms,
for he had refused to spend the night at Merton Grange, though Vera, of necessity, had arranged
to stay there.

"I suppose one ought to be thankful," he said, "that matters are no worse. Still, at the same
time, I must confess that I should like to have a few words with Zary. I wonder if we could
get him to take us back to Mexico with a view to exploring the Four Finger Mine. After all
said and done, it seems a pity that that rich treasure house should be lost to the world."

"Better leave it alone," Gurdon said. "It makes me creep when I think of it. All the same,
I am with you in one thing. I should certainly like to see Zary again."

Gurdon and his companion were destined to have their wish gratified sooner than they had expected.
They let themselves into the farmhouse where they were staying, and Venner turned up the lamp
in the big rambling sitting-room. There, half-asleep in a chair before the fire, sat the very
man whom they had been discussing. He appeared to be heavy with sleep--his melancholy eyes
opened slowly as he turned to the newcomers.

"You have been thinking about me," he said--"you have been wondering what had become of me.
We are strangers, and yet we are not strangers. Mr. Venner is known to me, and Mr. Venner's
wife also. I was aware that my dear young mistress was his wife when it was still a secret
to everybody else. You are puzzled and mystified over the death of Mark Fenwick. Mr. Gurdon
has been reading an account to you from a newspaper."

"You are certainly a very remarkable man," Gurdon said. "As a matter of fact, that is exactly
what I have been doing. But tell me, Zary, how did you know?"

"You have a great poet," Zary said, calmly and deliberately. "He was one of the noblest philosophers
of his time. I have read him, I hope to read him again many times. His name is Shakespeare,
and he says 'there are more things in Heaven and earth than are dreamt of in our philosophy.'
Gentlemen, that is so, as you would know if you possessed the powers that I do. But I could
not explain--you would not understand, for your minds are different from mine. I am going away;
I shall never see my dear friends again--for the last time we have met. And because I could
not endure a formal parting I have come to you to give them all a message from me. It is only
this, that I shall never cease to think of them wherever I may be--but I need not dwell upon
that. As to Fenwick, I did not design that he should die so peaceful a death. I had gauged
his mind incorrectly; I had goaded him into a pitch of terror which drove him over the border
land and destroyed his reason. Therefore, he committed suicide, and so he is finished with."

There was a pause for some time, until it became evident that Zary had no more to say. He rose
to his feet, and was advancing in the direction of the door when Gurdon stopped him.

"Pardon me," the latter said, "but like most ordinary men, I am by no means devoid of my fair
share of curiosity. What is going to be done in the matter of the Four Finger Mine?"

Zary's large round eyes seemed to emit flashes of light. His face had grown hard and white
like that of a statue.

"Well," he demanded, "what about the mine?"

"Why, you see, it practically belongs to Mr. Le Fenu's children," Gurdon said. "In which case
it should prove an exceedingly valuable property."

"The mine belongs to us, it belongs to me," Zary cried. "I am the last of my tribe, and the
secret shall die with me. Man, do you suppose that happiness lies in the mere accumulation
of money? I tell you that the thing is a curse, one of the greatest curses that ever God laid
on humanity. To hundreds and thousands of us this life of ours on earth is a veritable hell
through the greed for gold. Of all the wars that have brought pain and suffering to humanity,
none has done a tithe of the harm wrought by the incessant battle for the yellow metal which
you call gold. If there had been no such thing on earth, the tribe to which I belong would
to-day walk as gods amongst ordinary men. No, I shall do nothing to pander to this disease.
When I die the secret of the mine perishes with me. Never more will man work there as long
as I have the health and strength to prevent it."

The latter part of Zary's speech had sunk almost to a whisper; he made a profound bow to Venner
and Gurdon, then left the room softly. He seemed to vanish almost like the spirit of one of
his departed ancestors, and his place knew him no more.

"Curious man," Gurdon said, thoughtfully. "Very quiet and gentle as a rule, but not the kind
of person you would care to have as a foe. I have a very strong feeling that none of us will
ever see Felix Zary again. Now, don't you think we can begin to forget all about this kind
of thing? Surely we have had enough horrors and mysteries, and I can only wonder at the way
in which those girls have borne up against all their troubles. Tell me, what are you going
to do? I mean as to your future."

"Upon my word, I really haven't given it a thought," Venner said. "It is not very often that
a man has the unique experience of being married three years without a honeymoon, and without
more than half an hour in his wife's company. You can but feebly guess, my dear fellow, how
terribly I have suffered during the time to which I refer. Still, I trusted my wife implicitly,
though all the dictates of common-sense were against me, and I am sincerely and heartily glad
now that I took the line I did. As soon as possible, I intend to take Vera away for a long
tour on the Continent. When I come back I shall have the old house done up again, and, I suppose,
settle down to the life of a country gentleman. But, of course, I can't do anything till Beth's
future is settled. I suppose, for the present, she will go back again to Le Fenu's doctor friends,
pending her marriage with Charles Evors."

"The programme is all right," Gurdon said. "But suppose Lord Merton objects to the arrangement?"

"I don't fancy that he will do that, from what I hear," Venner said. "All the Evors have been
wild in their youth, and the present lord is no exception to the rule. Depend upon it, he will
be very glad to have his son back again, happily married, and eager to become domesticated.
Besides, from what I understand from Vera, her father worked the Four Finger Mine to considerable
advantage during his lifetime, and Beth is something quite considerable in the way of an heiress.
On the whole, I am not disposed to worry. Now let us have one quiet cigar, and then go to bed
like a pair of average respectable citizens."

CHAPTER XXX

A PEACEFUL SUNSET

"Upon my word," Evors was saying to Beth, "I feel as nervous as an Eton boy sent up to the
head for a flogging. It is just the same sensation as I used to enjoy in my schooldays; but
I don't care what he says, I am going to marry you whether he likes it or not, though, of course,
he is bound to like it. No one could look at that dear sweet little face of yours without falling
in love with you on the spot."

Beth demurely hoped so; she pretended an easy unconcern, though, on the whole, she was perhaps
more anxious than Evors, for the latter had written to his father at some length explaining
how matters stood, and Lord Merton had telegraphed to say that he would be at home the following
afternoon. The afternoon had arrived in due course, and now the wheels of his carriage might
be heard at any moment. Vera and her husband were not far off; they had promised to come in
and give their moral support if it became necessary.

"I don't see how he can possibly help liking you," Evors went on. "Thank goodness, we shall
be spared the trouble of making a long explanation. If my father had been against the arrangement
he probably would have done something else besides telegraphing that he was coming; but I don't
care, it doesn't matter what he says, I have quite made up my mind what to do."

"But you couldn't go against your father," Beth said, timidly.

"Oh, couldn't I? My dear girl, I have been doing nothing else all my lifetime. I have been
a most undutiful son, and I have no doubt that I have come near to breaking my father's heart
many a time, as he nearly broke the heart of his father before him. In common fairness he will
have to admit that we Evors are all alike as young men; and, in any case, I couldn't give you
up, Beth. Just think how faithful you have been to me all these years, when all the time it
has seemed as if I had a terrible crime on my conscience. Your father's death--"

Beth laid her little hand upon the speaker's mouth.

"Oh, hush, hush," she whispered. "I implore you never to speak of that again. They told me,
or, at least, that dreadful man told me, that you had committed that awful deed. He gave me
the most overwhelming proofs, and when I demanded a chance to speak to you and hear from your
own lips that it was all a cruel lie, you were nowhere to be found. This, Fenwick told me,
was proof positive of your guilt. It was such a shock to me that, for the time being, I lost
my reason--at least, I did not exactly lose my reason, but my brain just seemed to go to sleep
in some strange way. And yet, from first to last, I never believed a word that Mark Fenwick
said. There was always present the knowledge that your name would be cleared at last, and the
most gratifying part of it all is the knowledge that there can be no scandal, no slanderous
tongues to say that there is no smoke without fire, and those wicked things that sound so small
and yet imply so much."

"Don't let us think of it. Let our minds dwell only on the happy future that is before us.
We shall be able to marry at once; then we can go and live in the old Manor House by the park
gates. The place is already furnished, and needs very little doing up. Sooner or later you
will be mistress of this grand old home, though I hope that time may not come for many years.
It seems to me--"

But Beth was not attending. She seemed to be listening with more or less fear to the sound
of wheels crunching on the gravel outside. Evors had hardly time to reassure her, when the
door opened and Lord Merton came in. He was a tall man of commanding presence, a little cold
and haughty-looking, though his lips indicated a genial nature, and he could not altogether
suppress the grave amusement in his eyes.

"This is an unconventional meeting," he said. "I received your letter, Charles, and I am bound
to say the contents would have astonished me exceedingly had they been written by anybody but
an Evors. But our race has always been a law unto itself, with more or less disastrous consequences.
We have been a wild and reckless lot, but this is the first time, so far as I know, that one
of the tribe has been accused of murder."

"It is a wicked lie," Beth burst out, passionately. She had forgotten all her fears in her
indignation. "My father was killed by the man Fenwick and his colleagues. That has all been
proved beyond a doubt!"

Lord Merton smiled down upon the flushed, indignant face. It was quite evident that Beth had
made a favorable impression upon him.

"I admire your loyalty and your pluck," he said. "My dear child, many a woman has risked her
happiness by marrying an Evors--not one of them did so except in absolute defiance of the advice
of their friends. In every case it has been a desperate experiment, and yet, I believe, in
every case it has turned out perfectly happily. It was the same with Charles's mother. It was
the same with my mother. No Evors ever asked permission of his sire to take unto himself a
wife; no Evors ever cared about social position. Still, at the same time, I am glad to know
that my boy has chosen a lady. When he was quite a young man, I should not have been in the
least surprised if he had come home with a flaunting barmaid, or something exquisitely vulgar
in the way of a music hall artiste."

Beth laughed aloud. She had quite forgotten her fears now; she was beginning rather to like
this caustic old gentleman, whose cynical words were belied by the smile in his eyes.

"I am very glad to know that you are satisfied with me," she said, timidly: "It is good to
know that."

"I suppose it would have been all the same in any case," Lord Merton replied with a smile.
"You would have married Charles and he would have had to have earned his own living, which
would have been an excellent thing for him."

"Indeed, he wouldn't," Beth laughed. "Do you know, Lord Merton, that I am quite a large heiress
in my way. I am sure you won't mind my speaking like this, but I feel so happy to-day that
I hardly know what I am saying. If you only knew the dread with which I have been looking forward
to meeting you--"

"Oh, they are all like that," Lord Merton laughed. "To strangers, I am supposed to be a most
terrible creature, but everybody on my estate knows how lamentably weak I am. They all take
advantage of me and bully me, even down to the lads in the stable, and I won't disguise from
you the satisfaction I feel in the knowledge that you have money of your own. For some considerable
time past I have been severely economising with a view to paying off some alarming mortgages
on the estate, so that I should not have been in a position to allow Charles much in the way
of an income. It will be my ambition when my time comes to hand you over the property without
a penny owing to anybody."

"May that day be a long way off, sir," Charles said, with feeling. "I hope to assure you how
I appreciate the noble manner in which you have forgiven--"

"Say no more about it, say no more," Lord Merton said. He seemed to have some little difficulty
in the articulation of his words. "Let us shake hands on the bargain and forget the past. I
was profoundly interested in your long letter, and I must confess to some little curiosity
to see your other friends, especially Mrs. Venner, who seems to have played so noble a part
in the story. I understand that she and her husband are down here. I suppose you made them
more or less comfortable, which must have been a rather difficult undertaking in the circumstances.
However, I have arranged to have all the old servants back to-morrow, and it will be some considerable
time before I let the old house again. Now run away and enjoy yourselves, and let us meet at
dinner as if nothing had happened. I don't want it to appear that there has been anything like
a quarrel between us."

So saying, Lord Merton turned and proceeded to his own room, leaving Beth in a state of almost
speechless admiration. It was so different from anything she had expected, that she felt as
if she could have cried for pure happiness. The sun was shining outside; through the window
she could see the deer wandering in the park. It was good to know that the old dark past was
gone, and that the primrose path of happiness lay shining before them. Presently, as they wandered
out in the sunshine, Vera came on the terrace and watched them. There was no need to tell her
that the interview with the master of the house had been a smooth one. She could judge that
by the way in which the lovers were walking side by side. Venner came and stood by his wife's side.

"So that's all right," he said. "As far as one can judge, they have managed to propitiate the
ogre."

"What do you mean by calling a man an ogre in his own house?" the voice of Lord Merton asked
at the same moment. "For some few minutes I have been keeping an eye on you two, but I suppose
I must introduce myself, though you will guess who I am. Mr. Venner, will you be good enough
to do me the honor of introducing me to your wife? I have heard a great deal of her from my
son. Mrs. Venner, if you will shake hands with me I shall esteem it a great favor."

"Then you are not annoyed with us?" Vera asked. "You are not displeased at the way we have
taken possession of your house? I am afraid that indirectly we have been the cause of a great
scandal."

"Oh, don't worry yourself about that," Lord Merton, said breezily. "There have been far worse
scandals than this in great houses before now; and, at any rate, it does not touch us. I am
afraid you have been rather inconvenienced here, and that the Grange has not upheld its reputation
for hospitality. Still, I hope it will be all right to-morrow, and I sincerely trust that you
can see your way to stay here for some little time to come. I am going to ask my sister, Lady
Glynn, to come down and act the part of hostess. Somebody will have to introduce Beth to the
county as my future daughter-in-law."

"You are pleased with the arrangement?" Vera asked, demurely.

"Indeed, I am," Lord Merton cried. "You do not know what an eccentric lot we are. I should
not have been at all surprised if Charles had come home with some curiosity in the way of a
bride, and I am only too profoundly grateful to find that he has made so sweet a choice. But,
tell me, you will stay here some little time--"

"I am afraid not," Venner, said regretfully. "If you will allow us to come back a little later
on, I am sure that my wife and myself will be very pleased. I have no doubt that Evors will
be impatient to claim his bride, but I hope he will wait for a month or two at least. You see,
I have a bride of my own, though, in a way, we are old married people. I don't know whether
Charles told you anything of our story, but if you would like to hear it--"

Lord Merton intimated that he had already done so. He expressed a hope that Venner and his
wife would return again a little later on; then, making some excuse, he returned to the house,
leaving Venner and Vera together. For some little time they wandered across the park very silently,
for the hearts of both were full, and this was one of those moments when words are not necessary
to convey thought from one mind to another. Presently Evors and Beth appeared in the distance
and joined the others.

"Well," Venner said with a smile, "it is some time since I saw two people look more ridiculously
happy than you two. But I am sincerely glad to find that the ogre is only one in name. My dear
Charles, your father is quite a delightful person. I quite understood from what you told me
that we had a lot of trouble in store for us. On the contrary, he seems to be as pleased with
the course of events as we are."

"He seems to have altered so much lately," Evors said. "At any rate, he has been particularly
good to me, and I am not likely to forget it. Behold in me a reformed character, ready to settle
down to a country life with Beth by my side--"

"Not quite, yet," Venner said, hastily. "You will have to curb your impatience for a bit; you
must not forget how Vera has suffered for the sake of you both, and how patiently I waited
for my happiness. You must promise us that the marriage will not take place under two months,
or I give you a solemn warning that we shall not be there. Our own honeymoon--"

"Of course Charles will promise," Beth said, indignantly. "Oh, I could never dream of being
married unless Vera were present. And, after all, what are two months when you have a whole
lifetime before you? I am sure that Charles agrees with me."

"I don't, indeed," Evors said, candidly. "Still, I am not going to be disagreeable, and Beth
knows that she has only to look at me with those imploring eyes of hers to get absolutely her
own way."

They left it at that, and gradually drifted apart again. When Vera and her husband returned
to the Grange, the setting sun shone fully in their faces, flinging their shadows far behind.
Venner paused just for a moment under the sombre shadow of a clump of beeches, and drew his
wife to his side.

"One moment," he said. "We have not yet decided where we are going. I have everything in readiness
in London, and I suppose that you are not lacking in the matter of wardrobe. Don't tell me,
while having everything that woman can want in the way of dress, that you have nothing to wear."

"I won't," Vera said, softly. "My dear boy, cannot you see how glad I shall be to be alone
with you at last? Everything is going well here, and Beth is entirely happy. You have been
very good and patient, and I will keep you waiting no longer. If you so will it, and I think
you do, let it be tomorrow."

Venner stooped and kissed the trembling lips held up to his. Then very silently, their hearts
too full for further speech, they turned towards the house.