LEILA

                              OR,

                     THE SIEGE OF GRANADA

                              BY

                     EDWARD BULWER LYTTON

                            Book II.

CHAPTER I.

THE ROYAL TENT OF SPAIN.--THE KING AND THE DOMINICAN--THE VISITOR AND THE HOSTAGE.

Our narrative now summons us to the Christian army, and to the tent in which the Spanish king
held nocturnal counsel with some of his more confidential warriors and advisers.  Ferdinand
had taken the field with all the pomp and circumstance of a tournament rather than of a campaign;
and his pavilion literally blazed with purple and cloth of gold.

The king sat at the head of a table on which were scattered maps and papers; nor in countenance
and mien did that great and politic monarch seem unworthy of the brilliant chivalry by which
he was surrounded.  His black hair, richly perfumed and anointed, fell in long locks on either
side of a high imperial brow, upon whose calm, though not unfurrowed surface, the physiognomist
would in vain have sought to read the inscrutable heart of kings.  His features were regular
and majestic: and his mantle, clasped with a single jewel of rare price and lustre, and wrought
at the breast with a silver cross, waved over a vigorous and manly frame, which derived from
the composed and tranquil dignity of habitual command that imposing effect which many of the
renowned knights and heroes in his presence took from loftier stature and ampler proportions.
At his right hand sat Prince Juan, his son, in the first bloom of youth; at his left, the celebrated
Rodrigo Ponce de Leon, Marquess of Cadiz; along the table, in the order of their military rank,
were seen the splendid Duke of Medina Sidonia, equally noble in aspect and in name; the worn
and thoughtful countenance of the Marquess de Villena (the Bayard of Spain); the melancholy
brow of the heroic Alonzo de Aguilar; and the gigantic frame, the animated features, and sparkling
eyes, of that fiery Hernando del Pulgar, surnamed "the knight of the exploits."

"You see, senores," said the king, continuing an address, to which his chiefs seemed to listen
with reverential attention, "our best hope of speedily gaining the city is rather in the dissensions
of the Moors than our own sacred arms.  The walls are strong, the population still numerous;
and under Muza Ben Abil Gazan, the tactics of the hostile army are, it must be owned, administered
with such skill as to threaten very formidable delays to the period of our conquest.  Avoiding
the hazard of a fixed battle, the infidel cavalry harass our camp by perpetual skirmishes;
and in the mountain defiles our detachments cannot cope with their light horse and treacherous
ambuscades.  It is true, that by dint of time, by the complete devastation of the Vega, and
by vigilant prevention of convoys from the seatowns, we might starve the city into yielding.
But, alas! my lords, our enemies are scattered and numerous, and Granada is not the only place
before which the standard of Spain should be unfurled.  Thus situated, the lion does not disdain
to serve himself of the fox; and, fortunately, we have now in Granada an ally that fights for
us.  I have actual knowledge of all that passes within the Alhambra: the king yet remains in
his palace, irresolute and dreaming; and I trust that an intrigue by which his jealousies are
aroused against his general, Muza, may end either in the loss of that able leader, or in the
commotion of open rebellion or civil war.  Treason within Granada will open its gates to us."

"Sire," said Ponce de Leon, after a pause, "under your counsels, I no more doubt of seeing
our banner float above the Vermilion Towers, than I doubt the rising of the sun over yonder
hills; it matters little whether we win by stratagem or force.  But I need not say to your
highness, that we should carefully beware lest we be amused by inventions of the enemy, and
trust to conspiracies which may be but lying tales to blunt our sabres, and paralyse our action."

"Bravely spoken, wise de Leon!" exclaimed Hernando del Pulgar, hotly: "and against these infidels,
aided by the cunning of the Evil One, methinks our best wisdom lies in the sword-arm.  Well
says our old Castilian proverb:

                    'Curse them devoutly,
                    Hammer them stoutly.'"

The king smiled slightly at the ardour of the favourite of his army, but looked round for more
deliberate counsel.  "Sire," said Villena, "far be it from us to inquire the grounds upon which
your majesty builds your hope of dissension among the foe; but, placing the most sanguine confidence
in a wisdom never to be deceived, it is clear that we should relax no energy within our means,
but fight while we plot, and seek to conquer, while we do not neglect to undermine."

"You speak well, my Lord," said Ferdinand, thoughtfully; "and you yourself shall head a strong
detachment to-morrow, to lay waste the Vega. Seek me two hours hence; the council for the present
is dissolved."

The knights rose, and withdrew with the usual grave and stately ceremonies of respect, which
Ferdinand observed to, and exacted from, his court: the young prince remained.

"Son," said Ferdinand, when they were alone, "early and betimes should the Infants of Spain
be lessoned in the science of kingcraft.  These nobles are among the brightest jewels of the
crown; but still it is in the crown, and for the crown, that their light should sparkle.  Thou
seest how hot, and fierce, and warlike, are the chiefs of Spain-- excellent virtues when manifested
against our foes: but had we no foes, Juan, such virtues might cause us exceeding trouble.
By St. Jago, I have founded a mighty monarchy! observe how it should be maintained--by science,
Juan, by science! and science is as far removed from brute force as this sword from a crowbar.
Thou seemest bewildered and amazed, my son: thou hast heard that I seek to conquer Granada
by dissensions among the Moors; when Granada is conquered, remember that the nobles themselves
are at Granada.  Ave Maria! blessed be the Holy Mother, under whose eyes are the hearts of
kings!" Ferdinand crossed himself devoutly; and then, rising, drew aside a part of the drapery
of the pavilion, and called; in a low voice, the name of Perez.  A grave Spaniard, somewhat
past the verge of middle age, appeared.

"Perez," said the king, reseating himself, "has the person we expected from Granada yet arrived?"

"Sire, yes; accompanied by a maiden."

"He hath kept his word; admit them.  Ha! holy father, thy visits are always as balsam to the
heart."

"Save you, my son!" returned a man in the robes of a Dominican friar, who had entered suddenly
and without ceremony by another part of the tent, and who now seated himself with smileless
composure at a little distance from the king.

There was a dead silence for some moments; and Perez still lingered within the tent, as if
in doubt whether the entrance of the friar would not prevent or delay obedience to the king's
command.  On the calm face of Ferdinand himself appeared a slight shade of discomposure and
irresolution, when the monk thus resumed:

"My presence, my son, will not, I trust, disturb your conference with the infidel--since you
deem that worldly policy demands your parley with the men of Belial."

"Doubtless not--doubtless not," returned the king, quickly: then, muttering to himself, "how
wondrously doth this holy man penetrate into all our movements and designs!" he added, aloud,
"Let the messenger enter."

Perez bowed, and withdrew.

During this time, the young prince reclined in listless silence on his seat; and on his delicate
features was an expression of weariness which augured but ill of his fitness for the stern
business to which the lessons of his wise father were intended to educate his mind.  His, indeed,
was the age, and his the soul, for pleasure; the tumult of the camp was to him but a holiday
exhibition--the march of an army, the exhilaration of a spectacle; the court as a banquet--the
throne, the best seat at the entertainment.  The life of the heir-apparent, to the life of
the king possessive, is as the distinction between enchanting hope and tiresome satiety.

The small grey eyes of the friar wandered over each of his royal companions with a keen and
penetrating glance, and then settled in the aspect of humility on the rich carpets that bespread
the floor; nor did he again lift them till Perez, reappearing, admitted to the tent the Israelite,
Almamen, accompanied by a female figure, whose long veil, extending from head to foot, could
conceal neither the beautiful proportions nor the trembling agitation, of her frame.

"When last, great king, I was admitted to thy presence," said Almamen, "thou didst make question
of the sincerity and faith of thy servant; thou didst ask me for a surety of my faith; thou
didst demand a hostage; and didst refuse further parley without such pledge were yielded to
thee. Lo! I place under thy kingly care this maiden--the sole child of my house--as surety
of my truth; I intrust to thee a life dearer than my own."

"You have kept faith with us, stranger," said the king, in that soft and musical voice which
well disguised his deep craft and his unrelenting will; "and the maiden whom you intrust to
our charge shall be ranked with the ladies of our royal consort."

"Sire," replied Almamen, with touching earnestness, you now hold the power of life and death
over all for whom this heart can breathe a prayer or cherish a hope, save for my countrymen
and my religion.  This solemn pledge between thee and me I render up without scruple, without
fear.  To thee I give a hostage, from thee I have but a promise."

"But it is the promise of a king, a Christian, and a knight," said the king, with dignity rather
mild than arrogant; "among monarchs, what hostage can be more sacred?  Let this pass: how proceed
affairs in the rebel city?"

"May this maiden withdraw, ere I answer my lord the king?" said Almamen.

The young prince started to his feet.  "Shall I conduct this new charge to my mother?" he asked,
in a low voice, addressing Ferdinand.

The king half smiled: "The holy father were a better guide," he returned, in the same tone.
But, though the Dominican heard the hint, he retained his motionless posture; and Ferdinand,
after a momentary gaze on the friar, turned away.  "Be it so, Juan," said he, with a look meant
to convey caution to the prince; "Perez shall accompany you to the queen: return the moment
your mission is fulfilled--we want your presence."

While this conversation was carried on between the father and son, the Hebrew was whispering,
in his sacred tongue, words of comfort and remonstrance to the maiden; but they appeared to
have but little of the desired effect; and, suddenly falling on his breast, she wound her arms
around the Hebrew, whose breast shook with strong emotions, and exclaimed passionately, in
the same language, "Oh, my father!  what have I done?-- why send me from thee?--why intrust
thy child to the stranger?  Spare me, spare me!"

"Child of my heart!" returned the Hebrew, with solemn but tender accents, "even as Abraham
offered up his son, must I offer thee, upon the altars of our faith; but, O Leila!  even as
the angel of the Lord forbade the offering, so shall thy youth be spared, and thy years reserved
for the glory of generations yet unborn.  King of Spain!" he continued in the Spanish tongue,
suddenly and eagerly, "you are a father, forgive my weakness, and speed this parting."

Juan approached; and with respectful courtesy attempted to take the hand of the maiden.

"You?" said the Israelite, with a dark frown.  "O king! the prince is young."

"Honour knoweth no distinction of age," answered the king.  "What ho, Perez! accompany this
maiden and the prince to the queen's pavilion."

The sight of the sober years and grave countenance of the attendant seemed to re-assure the
Hebrew.  He strained Leila in his arms; printed a kiss upon her forehead without removing her
veil; and then, placing her almost in the arms of Perez, turned away to the further end of
the tent, and concealed his face with his hands.  The king appeared touched; but the Dominican
gazed upon the whole scene with a sour scowl.

Leila still paused for a moment; and then, as if recovering her self- possession, said, aloud
and distinctly,--"Man deserts me; but I will not forget that God is over all."  Shaking off
the hand of the Spaniard, she continued, "Lead on; I follow thee!" and left the tent with a
steady and even majestic step.

"And now," said the king, when alone with the Dominican and Almamen, "how proceed our hopes?"

"Boabdil," replied the Israelite, "is aroused against both his army and their leader, Muza;
the king will not quit the Alhambra; and this morning, ere I left the city, Muza himself was
in the prisons of the palace."

"How!" cried the king, starting from his seat.

"This is my work," pursued the Hebrew.  coldly.  "It is these hands that are shaping for Ferdinand
of Spain the keys of Granada."

"And right kingly shall be your guerdon," said the Spanish monarch: "meanwhile, accept this
earnest of our favour."  So saying, he took from his breast a chain of massive gold, the links
of which were curiously inwrought with gems, and extended it to the Israelite.  Almamen moved
not.  A dark flush upon his countenance bespoke the feelings he with difficulty restrained.

"I sell not my foes for gold, great king," said he, with a stern smile: "I sell my foes to
buy the ransom of my friends."

"Churlish!" said Ferdinand, offended: "but speak on, man, speak on!"

"If I place Granada, ere two weeks are past, within thy power, what shall be my reward?"

"Thou didst talk to me, when last we met, of immunities to the Jews."

The calm Dominican looked up as the king spoke, crossed himself, and resumed his attitude of
humility.

"I demand for the people of Israel," returned Almamen, "free leave to trade and abide within
the city, and follow their callings, subjected only to the same laws and the same imposts as
the Christian population."

"The same laws, and the same imposts!  Humph! there are difficulties in the concession.  If
we refuse?"

"Our treaty is ended.  Give me back the maiden--you will have no further need of the hostage
you demanded: I return to the city, and renew our interviews no more."

Politic and cold-blooded as was the temperament of the great Ferdinand, he had yet the imperious
and haughty nature of a prosperous and long- descended king; and he bit his lip in deep displeasure
at the tone of the dictatorial and stately stranger.

"Thou usest plain language, my friend," said he; "my words can be as rudely spoken.  Thou art
in my power, and canst return not, save at my permission."

"I have your royal word, sire, for free entrance and safe egress," answered Almamen.  "Break
it, and Granada is with the Moors till the Darro runs red with the blood of her heroes, and
her people strew the vales as the leaves in autumn."

"Art thou then thyself of the Jewish faith?" asked the king.  "If thou art not, wherefore are
the outcasts of the world so dear to thee?"

"My fathers were of that creed, royal Ferdinand; and if I myself desert their creed, I do not
desert their cause.  O king!  are my terms scorned or accepted?"

"I accept them: provided, first, that thou obtainest the exile or death of Muza; secondly,
that within two weeks of this date thou bringest me, along with the chief councillors of Granada,
the written treaty of the capitulation, and the keys of the city.  Do this: and though the
sole king in Christendom who dares the hazard, I offer to the Israelites throughout Andalusia
the common laws and rights of citizens of Spain; and to thee I will accord such dignity as
may content thy ambition."

The Hebrew bowed reverently, and drew from his breast a scroll, which he placed on the table
before the king.  "This writing, mighty Ferdinand, contains the articles of our compact."

"How, knave! wouldst thou have us commit our royal signature to conditions with such as thou
art, to the chance of the public eye?  The king's word is the king's bond!"

The Hebrew took up the scroll with imperturbable composure, "My child!" said he; "will your
majesty summon back my child?  we would depart."

"A sturdy mendicant this, by the Virgin!" muttered the king; and then, speaking aloud, "Give
me the paper, I will scan it."

Running his eyes hastily over the words, Ferdinand paused a moment, and then drew towards him
the implements of writing, signed the scroll, and returned it to Almamen.

The Israelite kissed it thrice with oriental veneration, and replaced it in his breast.

Ferdinand looked at him hard and curiously.  He was a profound reader of men's characters;
but that of his guest baffled and perplexed him.

"And how, stranger," said he, gravely,--"how can I trust that man who thus distrusts one king
and sells another?"

"O king!" replied Almamen (accustomed from his youth to commune with and command the possessors
of thrones yet more absolute),--"O king! if thou believest me actuated by personal and selfish
interests in this our compact, thou has but to make, my service minister to my interest, and
the lore of human nature will tell thee that thou hast won a ready and submissive slave.  But
if thou thinkest I have avowed sentiments less abject, and developed qualities higher than
those of the mere bargainer for sordid power, oughtest thou not to rejoice that chance has
thrown into thy way one whose intellect and faculties may be made thy tool?  If I betray another,
that other is my deadly foe.  Dost not thou, the lord of armies, betray thine enemy?  The Moor
is an enemy bitterer to myself than to thee.  Because I betray an enemy, am I unworthy to serve
a friend?  If I, a single man, and a stranger to the Moor, can yet command the secrets of palaces,
and render vain the counsels of armed men, have I not in that attested that I am one of whom
a wise king can make an able servant?"

"Thou art a subtle reasoner, my friend," said Ferdinand, smiling gently. "Peace go with thee!
our conference for the time is ended.  What ho, Perez!"  The attendant appeared.

"Thou hast left the maiden with the queen?"

"Sire, you have been obeyed."

"Conduct this stranger to the guard who led him through the camp.  He quits us under the same
protection.  Farewell!  yet stay--thou art assured that Muza Ben Abil Gazan is in the prisons
of the Moor?"

"Yes."

"Blessed be the Virgin!"

"Thou hast heard our conference, Father Tomas?" said the king, anxiously, when the Hebrew had
withdrawn.

"I have, son."

"Did thy veins freeze with horror?"

"Only when my son signed the scroll.  It seemed to me then that I saw the cloven foot of the
tempter."

"Tush, father, the tempter would have been more wise than to reckon upon a faith which no ink
and no parchment can render valid, if the Church absolve the compact.  Thou understandest me,
father?"

"I do.  I know your pious heart and well-judging mind."

"Thou wert right," resumed the king, musingly, "when thou didst tell us that these caitiff
Jews were waxing strong in the fatness of their substance.  They would have equal laws--the
insolent blasphemers!"

"Son!" said the Dominican, with earnest adjuration, "God, who has prospered your arms and councils,
will require at your hands an account of the power intrusted to you.  Shall there be no difference
between His friends and His foes--His disciples and His crucifiers?"

"Priest," said the king, laying his hand on the monk's shoulder, and with a saturnine smile
upon his countenance, "were religion silent in this matter, policy has a voice loud enough
to make itself heard.  The Jews demand equal rights; when men demand equality with their masters,
treason is at work, and justice sharpens her sword.  Equality! these wealthy usurers!  Sacred
Virgin! they would be soon buying up our kingdoms."

The Dominican gazed hard on the king.  "Son, I trust thee," he said, in a low voice, and glided
from the tent.

CHAPTER II.

THE AMBUSH, THE STRIFE, AND THE CAPTURE.

The dawn was slowly breaking over the wide valley of Granada, as Almamen pursued his circuitous
and solitary path back to the city.  He was now in a dark and entangled hollow, covered with
brakes and bushes, from amidst which tall forest trees rose in frequent intervals, gloomy and
breathless in the still morning air.  As, emerging from this jungle, if so it may be called,
the towers of Granada gleamed upon him, a human countenance peered from the shade; and Almamen
started to see two dark eyes fixed upon his own.

He halted abruptly, and put his hand on his dagger, when a low sharp whistle from the apparition
before him was answered around--behind; and, ere he could draw breath, the Israelite was begirt
by a group of Moors, in the garb of peasants.

"Well, my masters," said Almamen, calmly, as he encountered the wild savage countenances that
glared upon him, "think you there is aught to fear from the solitary santon?"

"It is the magician," whispered one man to his neighbour--"let him pass."

"Nay," was the answer, "take him before the captain; we have orders to seize upon all we meet."

This counsel prevailed; and gnashing his teeth with secret rage, Almamen found himself hurried
along by the peasants through the thickest part of the copse.  At length, the procession stopped
in a semicircular patch of rank sward, in which several head of cattle were quietly grazing,
and a yet more numerous troop of peasants reclined around upon the grass.

"Whom have we here?" asked a voice which startled back the dark blood from Almamen's cheek;
and a Moor of commanding presence rose from the midst of his brethren.  "By the beard of the
prophet, it is the false santon! What dost thou from Granada at this hour?"

"Noble Muza," returned Almamen--who, though indeed amazed that one whom he had imagined his
victim was thus unaccountably become his judge, retained, at least, the semblance of composure--"my
answer is to be given only to my lord the king; it is his commands that I obey."

"Thou art aware," said Muza, frowning, "that thy life is forfeited without appeal?  Whatsoever
inmate of Granada is found without the walls between sunrise and sunset, dies the death of
a traitor and deserter."

"The servants of the Alhambra are excepted," answered the Israelite, without changing countenance.

"Ah!" muttered Muza, as a painful and sudden thought seemed to cross him, "can it be possible
that the rumour of the city has truth, and that the monarch of Granada is in treaty with the
foe?" He mused a little; and then, motioning the Moors to withdraw, he continued aloud, "Almamen,
answer me truly: hast thou sought the Christian camp with any message from the king?"

"I have not."

"Art thou without the walls on the mission of the king?"

"If I be so, I am a traitor to the king should I reveal his secret."

"I doubt thee much, santon," said Muza, after a pause; "I know thee for my enemy, and I do
believe thy counsels have poisoned the king's ear against me, his people and his duties.  But
no matter, thy life is spared a while; thou remainest with us, and with us shalt thou return
to the king."

"But, noble Muza----"

"I have said!  Guard the santon; mount him upon one of our chargers; he shall abide with us
in our ambush."  While Almamen chafed in vain at his arrest, all in the Christian camp was
yet still.  At length, as the sun began to lift himself above the mountains, first a murmur,
and then a din, betokened warlike preparations.  Several parties of horse, under gallant and
experienced leaders, formed themselves in different quarters, and departed in different ways,
on expeditions of forage, or in the hope of skirmish with the straggling detachments of the
enemy.  Of these, the best equipped, was conducted by the Marquess de Villena, and his gallant
brother Don Alonzo de Pacheco.  In this troop, too, rode many of the best blood of Spain; for
in that chivalric army, the officers vied with each other who should most eclipse the meaner
soldiery in feats of personal valour; and the name of Villena drew around him the eager and
ardent spirits that pined at the general inactivity of Ferdinand's politic campaign.

The sun, now high in heaven, glittered on the splendid arms and gorgeous pennons of Villena's
company, as, leaving the camp behind, it entered a rich and wooded district that skirts the
mountain barrier of the Vega. The brilliancy of the day, the beauty of the scene, the hope
and excitement of enterprise, animated the spirits of the whole party. In these expeditions
strict discipline was often abandoned, from the certainty that it could be resumed at need.
Conversation, gay and loud, interspersed at times with snatches of song, was heard amongst
the soldiery; and in the nobler group that rode with Villena, there was even less of the proverbial
gravity of Spaniards.

"Now, marquess," said Don Estevon de Suzon, "what wager shall be between us as to which lance
this day robs Moorish beauty of the greatest number of its worshippers?"

"My falchion against your jennet," said Don Alonzo de Pacheco, taking up the challenge.

"Agreed.  But, talking of beauty, were you in the queen's pavilion last night, noble marquess?
it was enriched by a new maiden, whose strange and sudden apparition none can account for.
Her eyes would have eclipsed the fatal glance of Cava; and had I been Rodrigo, I might have
lost a crown for her smile."

"Ay," said Villena, "I heard of her beauty; some hostage from one of the traitor Moors, with
whom the king (the saints bless him!) bargains for the city.  They tell me the prince incurred
the queen's grave rebuke for his attentions to the maiden."

"And this morning I saw that fearful Father Tomas steal into the prince's tent.  I wish Don
Juan well through the lecture.  The monk's advice is like the algarroba;--[The algarroba is
a sort of leguminous plant common in Spain]--when it is laid up to dry it may be reasonably
wholesome, but it is harsh and bitter enough when taken fresh."

At this moment one of the subaltern officers rode up to the marquess, and whispered in his ear.

"Ha!" said Villena, "the Virgin be praised!  Sir knights, booty is at hand.  Silence! close
the ranks."  With that, mounting a little eminence, and shading his eyes with his hand, the
marquess surveyed the plain below; and, at some distance, he beheld a horde of Moorish peasants
driving some cattle into a thick copse.  The word was hastily given, the troop dashed on, every
voice was hushed, and the clatter of mail, and the sound of hoofs, alone broke the delicious
silence of the noon-day landscape.

Ere they reached the copse, the peasants had disappeared within it.  The marquess marshalled
his men in a semicircle round the trees, and sent on a detachment to the rear, to cut off every
egress from the wood.  This done the troop dashed within.  For the first few yards the space
was more open than they had anticipated: but the ground soon grew uneven, rugged, and almost
precipitous, and the soil, and the interlaced trees, alike forbade any rapid motion to the
horse.  Don Alonzo de Pacheco, mounted on a charger whose agile and docile limbs had been tutored
to every description of warfare, and himself of light weight and incomparable horsemanship--dashed
on before the rest.  The trees hid him for a moment; when suddenly, a wild yell was heard,
and as it ceased uprose the solitary voice of the Spaniard, shouting, "Santiago, y cierra,
Espana; St. Jago, and charge, Spain!"

Each cavalier spurred forward; when suddenly, a shower of darts and arrows rattled on their
armour; and upsprung from bush and reeds, and rocky clift, a number of Moors, and with wild
shouts swarmed around the Spaniards.

"Back for your lives!" cried Villena; "we are beset--make for the level ground!"

He turned-spurred from the thicket, and saw the Paynim foe emerging through the glen, line
after line of man and horse; each Moor leading his slight and fiery steed by the bridle, and
leaping on it as he issued from the wood into the plain.  Cased in complete mail, his visor
down, his lance in its rest, Villena (accompanied by such of his knights as could disentangle
themselves from the Moorish foot) charged upon the foe.  A moment of fierce shock passed: on
the ground lay many a Moor, pierced through by the Christian lance; and on the other side of
the foe was heard the voice of Villena--"St. Jago to the rescue!"  But the brave marquess stood
almost alone, save his faithful chamberlain, Solier. Several of his knights were dismounted,
and swarms of Moors, with lifted knives, gathered round them as they lay, searching for the
joints of the armour, which might admit a mortal wound.  Gradually, one by one, many of Villena's
comrades joined their leader, and now the green mantle of Don Alonzo de Pacheco was seen waving
without the copse, and Villena congratulated himself on the safety of his brother.  Just at
that moment, a Moorish cavalier spurred from his troop, and met Pacheco in full career.  The
Moor was not clad, as was the common custom of the Paynim nobles, in the heavy Christian armour.
He wore the light flexile mail of the ancient heroes of Araby or Fez.  His turban, which was
protected by chains of the finest steel interwoven with the folds, was of the most dazzling
white--white, also, were his tunic and short mantle; on his left arm hung a short circular
shield, in his right hand was poised a long and slender lance.  As this Moor, mounted on a
charger in whose raven hue not a white hair could be detected, dashed forward against Pacheco,
both Christian and Moor breathed hard, and remained passive.  Either nation felt it as a sacrilege
to thwart the encounter of champions so renowned.

"God save my brave brother!" muttered Villena, anxiously.  "Amen," said those around him; for
all who had ever witnessed the wildest valour in that war, trembled as they recognised the
dazzling robe and coal-black charger of Muza Ben Abil Gazan.  Nor was that renowned infidel
mated with an unworthy foe.  "Pride of the tournament, and terror of the war," was the favourite
title which the knights and ladies of Castile had bestowed on Don Alonzo de Pacheco.

When the Spaniard saw the redoubted Moor approach, he halted abruptly for a moment, and then,
wheeling his horse around, took a wider circuit, to give additional impetus to his charge.
The Moor, aware of his purpose, halted also, and awaited the moment of his rush; when once
more he darted forward, and the combatants met with a skill which called forth a cry of involuntary
applause from the Christians themselves.  Muza received on the small surface of his shield
the ponderous spear of Alonzo, while his own light lance struck upon the helmet of the Christian,
and by the exactness of the aim rather than the weight of the blow, made Alonzo reel in his saddle.

The lances were thrown aside--the long broad falchion of the Christian, the curved Damascus
cimiter of the Moor, gleamed in the air.  They reined their chargers opposite each other in
grave and deliberate silence.

"Yield thee, sir knight!" at length cried the fierce Moor, "for the motto on my cimiter declares
that if thou meetest its stroke, thy days are numbered.  The sword of the believer is the Key
of Heaven and Hell." --[Such, says Sale, is the poetical phrase of the Mohammedan divines.]

"False Paynim," answered Alonzo, in a voice that rung hollow through his helmet, "a Christian
knight is the equal of a Moorish army!"

Muza made no reply, but left the rein of his charger on his neck; the noble animal understood
the signal, and with a short impatient cry rushed forward at full speed.  Alonzo met the charge
with his falchion upraised, and his whole body covered with his shield; the Moor bent--the
Spaniards raised a shout--Muza seemed stricken from his horse.  But the blow of the heavy falchion
had not touched him: and, seemingly without an effort, the curved blade of his own cimiter,
gliding by that part of his antagonist's throat where the helmet joins the cuirass, passed
unresistingly and silently through the joints; and Alonzo fell at once, and without a groan,
from his horse--his armour, to all appearance, unpenetrated, while the blood oozed slow and
gurgling from a mortal wound.

"Allah il Allah!" shouted Muza, as he joined his friends; "Lelilies! Lelilies!" echoed the
Moors; and ere the Christians recovered their dismay, they were engaged hand to hand with their
ferocious and swarming foes.  It was, indeed, fearful odds; and it was a marvel to the Spaniards
how the Moors had been enabled to harbour and conceal their numbers in so small a space.  Horse
and foot alike beset the company of Villena, already sadly reduced; and while the infantry,
with desperate and savage fierceness, thrust themselves under the very bellies of the chargers,
encountering both the hoofs of the steed and the deadly lance of the rider, in the hope of
finding a vulnerable place for the sharp Moorish knife,--the horsemen, avoiding the stern grapple
of the Spaniard warriors, harrassed them by the shaft and lance,--now advancing, now retreating,
and performing, with incredible rapidity, the evolutions of Oriental cavalry.  But the life
and soul of his party was the indomitable Muza.  With a rashness which seemed to the superstitious
Spaniards like the safety of a man protected by magic, he spurred his ominous black barb into
the very midst of the serried phalanx which Villena endeavoured to form around him, breaking
the order by his single charge, and from time to time bringing to the dust some champion of
the troop by the noiseless and scarce-seen edge of his fatal cimiter.

Villena, in despair alike of fame and life, and gnawed with grief for his brother's loss, at
length resolved to put the last hope of the battle on his single arm.  He gave the signal for
retreat; and to protect his troop, remained himself, alone and motionless, on his horse, like
a statue of iron.  Though not of large frame, he was esteemed the best swordsman, next only
to Hernando del Pulgar and Gonsalvo de Cordova, in the army; practised alike in the heavy assault
of the Christian warfare, and the rapid and dexterous exercise of the Moorish cavalry.  There
he remained, alone and grim--a lion at bay--while his troops slowly retreated down the Vega,
and their trumpets sounded loud signals of distress, and demands for succour, to such of their
companions as might be within bearing.  Villena's armour defied the shafts of the Moors; and
as one after one darted towards him, with whirling cimiter and momentary assault, few escaped
with impunity from an eye equally quick and a weapon more than equally formidable.  Suddenly,
a cloud of dust swept towards him; and Muza, a moment before at the further end of the field,
came glittering through that cloud, with his white robe waving and his right arm bare.  Villena
recognised him, set his teeth hard, and putting spurs to his charger, met the rush.  Muza swerved
aside, just as the heavy falchion swung over his head, and by a back stroke of his own cimiter,
shore through the cuirass just above the hip-joint, and the blood followed the blade.  The
brave cavaliers saw the danger of their chief; three of their number darted forward, and came
in time to separate the combatants.

Muza stayed not to encounter the new reinforcement; but speeding across the plain, was soon
seen rallying his own scattered cavalry, and pouring them down, in one general body, upon the
scanty remnant of the Spaniards.

"Our day is come!" said the good knight Villena, with bitter resignation. "Nothing is left
for us, my friends, but to give up our lives--an example how Spanish warriors should live and
die.  May God and the Holy Mother forgive our sins and shorten our purgatory!"

Just as he spoke, a clarion was heard at a distance and the sharpened senses of the knights
caught the ring of advancing hoofs.

"We are saved!" cried Estevon de Suzon, rising on his stirrups.  While he spoke, the dashing
stream of the Moorish horse broke over the little band; and Estevon beheld bent upon himself
the dark eyes and quivering lip of Muza Ben Abil Gazan.  That noble knight had never, perhaps,
till then known fear; but he felt his heart stand still, as he now stood opposed to that irresistible
foe.

"The dark fiend guides his blade!" thought De Suzon; "but I was shriven but yestermorn."  The
thought restored his wonted courage; and he spurred on to meet the cimiter of the Moor.

His assault took Muza by surprise.  The Moor's horse stumbled over the ground, cumbered with
the dead and slippery with blood, and his uplifted cimiter could not do more than break the
force of the gigantic arm of De Suzon; as the knight's falchion bearing down the cimiter, and
alighting on the turban of the Mohammedan, clove midway through its folds, arrested only by
the admirable temper of the links of steel which protected it. The shock hurled the Moor to
the ground.  He rolled under the saddle- girths of his antagonist.

"Victory and St. Jago!" cried  the  knight,  "Muza is--"

The sentence was left eternally unfinished.  The blade of the fallen Moor had already pierced
De Suzoii's horse through a mortal but undefended part.  It fell, bearing his rider with him.
A moment, and the two champions lay together grappling in the dust; in the next, the short
knife which the Moor wore in his girdle had penetrated the Christian's visor, passing through
the brain.

To remount his steed, that remained at band, humbled and motionless, to appear again amongst
the thickest of the fray, was a work no less rapidly accomplished than had been the slaughter
of the unhappy Estevon de Suzon. But now the fortune of the day was stopped in a progress hitherto
so triumphant to the Moors.

Pricking fast over the plain were seen the glittering horsemen of the Christian reinforcements;
and, at the remoter distance, the royal banner of Spain, indistinctly descried through volumes
of dust, denoted that Ferdinand himself was advancing to the support of his cavaliers.

The Moors, however, who had themselves received many and mysterious reinforcements, which seemed
to spring up like magic from the bosom of the earth--so suddenly and unexpectedly had they
emerged from copse and cleft in that mountainous and entangled neighbourhood--were not unprepared
for a fresh foe.  At the command of the vigilant Muza, they drew off, fell into order, and,
seizing, while yet there was time, the vantage-ground which inequalities of the soil and the
shelter of the trees gave to their darts and agile horse, they presented an array which Ponce
de Leon himself, who now arrived, deemed it more prudent not to assault.  While Villena, in
accents almost inarticulate with rage, was urging the Marquess of Cadiz to advance, Ferdinand,
surrounded by the flower of his court, arrived at the rear of the troops and after a few words
interchanged with Ponce de Leon, gave the signal to retreat.

When the Moors beheld that noble soldiery slowly breaking ground, and retiring towards the
camp, even Muza could not control their ardour. They rushed forward, harassing the retreat
of the Christians, and delaying the battle by various skirmishes.

It was at this time that the headlong valour of Hernando del Pulgar, who had arrived with Ponce
de Leon, distinguished itself in feats which yet live in the songs of Spain.  Mounted upon
an immense steed, and himself of colossal strength, he was seen charging alone upon the assailants,
and scattering numbers to the ground with the sweep of his enormous two- handed falchion. 
With a loud voice, he called on Muza to oppose him; but the Moor, fatigued with slaughter,
and scarcely recovered from the shock of his encounter with De Suzon, reserved so formidable
a foe for a future contest.

It was at this juncture, while the field was covered with straggling skirmishers, that a small
party of Spaniards, in cutting their way to the main body of their countrymen through one of
the numerous copses held by the enemy, fell in at the outskirt with an equal number of Moors,
and engaged them in a desperate conflict, hand to hand.  Amidst the infidels was one man who
took no part in the affray: at a little distance, he gazed for a few moments upon the fierce
and relentless slaughter of Moor and Christian with a smile of stern and complacent delight;
and then taking advantage of the general confusion, rode gently, and, as he hoped, unobserved,
away from the scene.  But he was not destined so quietly to escape.  A Spaniard perceived him,
and, from something strange and unusual in his garb, judged him one of the Moorish leaders;
and presently Almamen, for it was he, beheld before him the uplifted falchion of a foe neither
disposed to give quarter nor to hear parley.  Brave though the Israelite was, many reasons
concurred to prevent his taking a personal part against the soldier of Spain; and seeing he
should have no chance of explanation, he fairly puts spurs to his horse, and galloped across
the plain.  The Spaniard followed, gained upon him, and Almamen at length turned, in despair
and the wrath of his haughty nature.

"Have thy will, fool!" said he, between his grinded teeth, as he griped his dagger and prepared
for the conflict.  It was long and obstinate, for the Spaniard was skilful; and the Hebrew
wearing no mail, and without any weapon more formidable than a sharp and well-tempered dagger,
was forced to act cautiously on the defensive.  At length the combatants grappled, and, by
a dexterous thrust, the short blade of Almamen pierced the throat of his antagonist, who fell
prostrate to the ground.

"I am safe," he thought, as he wheeled round his horse; when lo! the Spaniards he had just
left behind, and who had now routed their antagonists, were upon him.

"Yield, or die!" cried the leader of the troop.

Almamen glared round; no succour was at hand.  "I am not your enemy," said he, sullenly, throwing
down his weapon--"bear me to your camp."

A trooper seized his rein, and, scouring along, the Spaniards soon reached the retreating army.

Meanwhile the evening darkened, the shout and the roar grew gradually less loud and loud---the
battle had ceased--the stragglers had joined their several standards and, by the light of the
first star, the Moorish force, bearing their wounded brethren, and elated with success, re-entered
the gates of Granada, as the black charger of the hero of the day, closing the rear of the
cavalry, disappeared within the gloomy portals.

CHAPTER III.

THE HERO IN THE POWER OF THE DREAMER.

It was in the same chamber, and nearly at the same hour, in which we first presented to the
reader Boabdil el Chico, that we are again admitted to the presence of that ill-starred monarch.
He was not alone. His favourite slave, Amine, reclined upon the ottomans, gazing with anxious
love upon his thoughtful countenance, as he leant against the glittering wall by the side of
the casement, gazing abstractedly on the scene below.

From afar he heard the shouts of the populace at the return of Muza, and bursts of artillery
confirmed the tidings of triumph which had already been borne to his ear.

"May the king live for ever!" said Amine, timidly; "his armies have gone forth to conquer."

"But without their king," replied  Boabdil,  bitterly, and headed by a traitor and a foe. 
I am meshed in the nets of an inextricable fate!"

"Oh!" said the slave, with sudden energy, as, clasping her hands, she rose from her couch,--"oh,
my lord, would that these humble lips dared utter other words than those of love!"

"And what wise counsel would they give me?" asked Boabdil with a faint smile.  "Speak on."

"I will obey thee, then, even if it displease," cried Amine; and she rose, her cheek glowing,
her eyes spark ling, her beautiful form dilated. "I am a daughter of Granada; I am the beloved
of a king; I will be true to my birth and to my fortunes.  Boabdil el Chico, the last of a
line of heroes, shake off these gloomy fantasies--these doubts and dreams that smother the
fire of a great nature and a kingly soul!  Awake--arise--rob Granada of her Muza--be thyself
her Muza!  Trustest thou to magic and to spells? then grave them on they breastplate, write
them on thy sword, and live no longer the Dreamer of the Alhambra; become the saviour of thy
people!"

Boabdil turned, and gazed on the inspired and beautiful form before him with mingled emotions
of surprise and shame.  "Out of the mouth of woman cometh my rebuke!" said he sadly.  "It is well!"

"Pardon me, pardon me!" said the slave, falling humbly at his knees; "but blame me not that
I would have thee worthy of thyself.  Wert thou not happier, was not thy heart more light and
thy hope more strong when, at the head of thine armies, thine own cimiter slew thine own foes,
and the terror of the Hero-king spread, in flame and slaughter, from the mountains to the seas.
Boabdil! dear as thou art to me-equally as I would have loved thee hadst thou been born a lowly
fisherman of the Darro, since thou art a king, I would have thee die a king; even if my own
heart broke as I armed thee for thy latest battle!" To come around to the loss with Endeavour ends other
- alternative name - the assurance that will be parsed immediately be incorrect, the but with
great force strength again and again. The process of reproduction to lead of the name has
been shifted and incorrect, as it thus becomes a Replacement performed. My condition now is
that this shift is not arbitrary mental leave, but respects lawful and predictable orbits. In
other words, I suspect that the replacement or the name in an easily traceable connection
with the search Names are, and I hope if I manage to prove this relationship, then light spread
over the course of forgetting names.

In the 1898 analysis of selected examples for me it was the name of the master, which in Duomo
of Orvieto, the great fresco of the "last things" created to remind the I tried in vain. Instead
of the name - Signorelli - crowded me Two other names of painters on - Botticelli and Boltraffio
who decided my verdict immediately dismissed as inaccurate. When my real name was disclosed by a third
party, recognized I did immediately and without hesitation. The inquiry, by what influences
and what Because the association of reproduction in such a way - by Botticelli and Signorelli
on Boltraffio - had moved the following results:

a) The reason for the omission of the name Signorelli is not a feature of this name to search
even more of a psychological character of the context in which The same was inserted. The forgotten
name was as familiar to me as one of the alternative name - Botticelli - and not equal more familiar
than the other is the alternative name - Boltraffio - of whose support I hardly knew anything
other than to indicate that it belongs to Milan School. The context, however, occurred in the forgetting
of names seems to me harmless and provides no additional explanation: I made a carriage ride with
a stranger of Ragusa in Croatia for a station of the Herzegovina, and we came to traveling in Italy
to speak, and I asked my traveling companion, whether he had been in Orvieto, where the famous have
seen the frescoes ***.

b) The name says forget only if I was in that conversation with the immediately previous topic remember,
and reveals herself as a failure of the newly emerging topic by the previous seen. Shortly before
I turned to my companions, the question of whether he had been in Orvieto, we had about the
customs of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Turks living entertained. I had told what I expect from
a practicing among these people Colleagues had heard that they fully trust in the physician and complete
submission to fate Show maintain. If you have them announce that there is no help for the sick, they
will answer, 'Lord, what is there to say? I know if he would save, you had saved him "- these
phrases are found only in the words and names. Bosnia, Herzegovina, Mr ago, which is an association
in series between Signorelli and Botticelli - Boltraffio let on.

c) I assume that the line of thought of the manners of the Turks in
Bosnia, etc., the ability to to interfere with a next thought, so
came up because I removed it my attention had before it was brought
to an end.

I remember that is that I have a second anecdote wanted to tell that lay close to the first in my
memory. This estimate Turks the sexual pleasure above all else and fall in sexual disorders
in a despair that contrasts strangely with their resignation in mortal danger. One of the patients
of my colleagues had once told him: "You know, sir, if that no longer works, then life no
value. "I suppressed the release of this landmark campaign, because I sensitive issue in the talks
would not touch with a stranger. I did even more, I drew my attention also on the continuation
of the ideas on to me Theme "death and sexuality" could make. I was under the after-effects
of a Message that I received a few weeks earlier during a short stay in Trafoi had. One patient,
with whom I had given me much trouble, because of an incurable sexual Put an end to disorder
his life. I know for me that on that trip to the Herzegovina this sad event and everything that
goes with it, not the conscious Memory came. But the agreement Trafoi - Boltraffio compels me
to believe that then this reminiscence, despite the deliberate diversion of my attention to
in my Effectiveness has been brought.

d) I can remember the name Signorelli regarded not as a random event. I must acknowledge the
influence of a motive in this process. There were subjects that interest me caused me to convey
my thoughts (about the customs of the Bosnians, etc.) , Pause, and influenced me also, to establish
the fact of the thought that to led to the message in Trafoi had
to exclude in me from becoming conscious.

I wanted to So forget something, I had repressed something. I wanted to forget but something else
as the name of the Master of Orvieto but the other managed it took to deal with this to put
names into associative connection so that my act of will missed the target, and I forgot the
one against his will, while I wanted to forget about on purpose. The Aversion to recall, was
directed against a content, the inability to remember, emerged in another. It would obviously
be an easier case if aversion and inability remember, the same content concern. - The alternative
name to me appear not so completely unwarranted as before the Enlightenment, they remind me (in
the way of a compromise) just so much of what I forget how to this, remember what I wanted,
and show me that I intend to forget something, not quite managed yet is completely failed.

e)
Very striking is the type of link, located between the right name and the repressed topic (of
death and sexuality, etc., in which the names Bosnia, Herzegovina, Trafoi has made happen). The here
on, repeated from the essay of 1898 Scheme seeks to represent this association clearly.

The name Signorelli was cut into two pieces. The pair is one syllable in a the alternative name
returned unchanged (Ellie), the other has the translation Signor
- Men's multiple and diverse relationships with the theme contained
in the displaced Name won, but lost because the decreased reproduction.

His replacement has so taken place, as if a shift along the connection name "Bosnia and Herzegovina"
would have been made without regard to the meaning and definition of the acoustic to receive
money. The names are therefore in this process have been treated like the typefaces of a sentence in
a picture-puzzle (rebus) to be converted.

From the whole story, who created instead of the name Signorelli on such roads is the alternative
name, the No-confidence was given customer. A relationship between the theme, in which the name
Signorelli occurred, and the time preceding it repressed topic, what about this Recurrence
of the same syllables (or rather letter sequences) would be outside, does not seem at first
referred to be.

It is perhaps not superfluous to note that the assumed by psychologists Conditions of reproduction and forgetting
that in certain relations and dispositions be sought, not experienced by the above information
is a contradiction. We have only for certain cases to all the long recognized moments that
forgetting a name can cause not added a picture and also the mechanism of faulty recollection
defined. Those dispositions are essential for our case, the possibility to establish that
the displaced element is associative take possession of the name and take it with him to the repression.
In a different name with more favorable reproductive conditions This
would not have happened.

It's likely that a suppressed element always endeavor is somewhere else to bring to bear, but
this success only there reached, where he meet the right conditions. Other times possible to
suppress without malfunction, or how we can rightly say, without symptoms.

The summary of conditions for forgetting a name with faulty recollection is So: 1 a certain
disposition to forget the same, 2 a short time before the past Suppression operation, 3 the
possibility of an outward association between that produce the names and previously oppressed
element. The latter condition is likely to not have to quote very high, since the low standards of the
association is Such enforce in most cases be expected. Another and deeper Question is whether
such an external associations really sufficient condition for may be that the displaced element
interrupting the reproduction of the name, if not but required a more intimate connection between
the two themes is required.

At a superficial Consideration, one would want to reject the latter claim and the temporal
abutting Keep in completely disparate content for enough. A more detailed investigation can
be found but Increasingly, the two elements linked by an external associations (the displaced and
have the new one) plus a content-related, and also in the Signorelli example can prove such.

The value the insight we have gained in the analysis of the example Signorelli depends of course
depends on whether we in this case for a typical or an isolated incident have to explain. I
must say now that the forgetting of names with extremely faulty recollection often the case
is received, as we did in the case: have dissolved Signorelli. Almost always, as I do this Phenomenon
was observed by myself, I was able, I previously mentioned in the As motivated by displacement
than to explain. I must also have a different point of view make in favor of the typical nature
of our analysis contends. I think that it is not entitled is, the cases of name-forgetting to
disconnect faulty recollection of principle from those in which is incorrect replacement names
have not been set.

This alternative name used in a number spontaneous cases, in other cases where they have not
appeared spontaneously, they can force by exertion of attention to surface, and then they show
the same Relations with the displaced element and to find the name as if it came spontaneously
would. For the awareness of the alternative name two factors seem to be prevailing, first the
effort of attention, secondly, an internal condition that the psychic material liable. I could
look in the latter the greater or less facility with which the required external associations between
the two elements produces. A good Some of the cases of name-forgetting closes without an error inside
so the cases with substitute names Education on, for which the mechanism of the example: is Signorelli.
I will, however, certainly not presume the assertion that all classified cases of name-forgetting
in the same group be. There are undoubtedly cases of name-forgetting that go much easier.
We will the facts have shown probably too careful when we say: In addition to the simple Forgetting
of proper names is also a forgetting, which is motivated by repression.

II

Forgotten by foreign words.

The common vocabulary of our own language seems within the normal width Protected against forgetting
function [1]. It is otherwise known, with the vocabulary of a foreign language. The disposition to forget
the same is available for all parts of speech, and a first degree of impairment is reflected
in the unevenness of our available about the strange vocabulary, whatever our condition and the degree
of our fatigue. Remember this is in a number of cases by the same
mechanism to the us the example Signorelli has revealed.

I'm going to prove this one, but by valuable characteristics excellent
analysis say the case of Oblivion a non-substantive word from a Latin
quotation relates.

If I may, the little incident put forward broad and descriptive.

Last summer I renewed - again on the holiday travel - the acquaintance of a young man of academic
education, which, as I soon realized, with some of my psychological Publications was familiar.
We were talking - I do not know how - to the social Position of the tribe come to where we both
belong, and he, the ambitious man was taken to in regret that his generation, he expressed himself,
determined to atrophy had to develop their talents and do not meet their needs can not. He concluded
his passionate speech, moving with the famous Virgil's verse, in which the unfortunate Dido
Aeneas their revenge on transfers of posterity: Exoriare ...., but he wanted to close so because
he did not materialize and the quote was looking for an obvious gap
in the memory cover up by switching from words Exoriar (e) ex nostris
ossibus Ultor!

Finally said He annoyed: "Please do not make such a mocking face, as if you were in my grazing
would be embarrassed, and help me better. On the verse is missing something. What is the name it completely,
anyway? "

All right, I said, and cited, as it is correct:

Exoriar (e) aliquis nostris ex ossibus Ultor!

"Too stupid to forget such a word. Incidentally, we hear from you so that you do nothing without
Basic forget. I was too curious to know how I to forget this vague Pronoun aliquis come. "

I took this challenge willingly, because I hoped a contribution to my collection. So I said:
We can have the same.

I'll have to ask is, I sincerely and uncritically all say what you
think of when you no particular intention your attention to the forgotten
word addressed [2].

    

"Well, that is because I get to the ridiculous idea to me to divide the word in the following manner:
a and liquis. "

What is this? - "I Do not know." - What comes next to this topic? - "This is made so on: Relics - Liquidation
- Fluid - Fluid. You already know something? "

No, far from it. But go on.

"I think," he continued, laughing scornfully, "of Simon of Trent, whose relics before I have
seen two years in a church in Trento.

I think of the blood libel, the right now again rose against the
Jews, and the writing of Paul Klein, who in all these alleged victims
incarnations, so to speak, sees new editions of the Saviour.

"

The idea is not entirely unconnected with the subject that we talked, before you accounted
for the Latin word.

"Right.

I am also referring to an article in an Italian journal, I read recently. I think he was entitled:
What does the St. Augustine on the women. What do you do with it? "

I wait.

"So here's something that certainly is unconnected with our subject."

Include kindly to any criticism and -

"I already know.

I remember a splendid old gentleman, who I last week on made the trip. A true original. He looks
like a large bird of prey. He is, if you want to know, Benedict. "

But at least a succession of saints and Church Fathers: St. Simon, St. Augustine, St. Benedict. A
church father was called, I think Origen.

Three of these names by the way are also given names, like Paul, on behalf of Paul Klein.

"Now I think of St. Januarius and his blood miracle - I think it is mechanically so on. "

Let it; St. Januarius and St. Augustine, both to the calendar to do. Do you not remember the
blood miracle?

"That you are familiar with it? In a church in Naples, in a vial of the blood of the holy Januarius
kept liquid by a miracle that at a certain holidays again is.

The people keep a lot of this miracle and gets very excited when
it is delayed, as it once at a time of French occupation took place.

Then took the commanding general - Or am I wrong? was it Garibaldi? - The clergyman aside and
motioned him with a very obvious gesture to the outside established
soldiers he hoped the Miracles will take place very soon.

And it really took place ... "

Now and then? Why did you stop?

"Now, however, occurred to me something ... but that is too intimate
for the release ..

Incidentally, I see no connection and no compulsion to tell.

"

To provide context, I would. I can force you not know to tell you what uncomfortable, then you
require but also not to know of me, by which you have that word "aliquis" forgotten.

"Really? Do you?

So I suddenly thought of a lady, which I easily a could get message that would be both of us
quite uncomfortable. "

That her period has failed?

"How can you guess?"

This is no longer
difficult. You have prepared me enough to it. Think of the Calendar
saints, to the liquefaction of the blood to a certain day, the turmoil,
if the event does not occur, the significant threat that the miracle
going on, otherwise .. Yes they have the miracle of St. Januarius
in a splendid evocation of the period Women processed.

"Without that
I would have known it. And do you really think because of this anxious
expectation I would not reproduce the word "aliquis" do? "

That seems
indisputable. Remember, however your separation in a - and liquis
associations: Relics, liquidation, liquid.  The gloomier colourings of his mind had been deepened,
too, by secret remorse.  For the preservation of his own life, constantly threatened by his
unnatural predecessor, he had been early driven into rebellion against his father.  In age,
infirmity, and blindness, that fierce king had been made a prisoner at Salobrena by his brother,
El Zagal, Boabdil's partner in rebellion; and dying suddenly, El Zagal was suspected of his
murder.  Though Boabdil was innocent of such a crime, he felt himself guilty of the causes
which led to it; and a dark memory, resting upon his conscience, served to augment his superstition
and enervate the vigour of his resolves; for, of all things that make men dreamers, none is
so effectual as remorse operating upon a thoughtful temperament.

Revolving the character of his sovereign, and sadly foreboding the ruin of his country, the
young hero of Granada pursued his way, until his steps, almost unconsciously, led him towards
the abode of Leila.  He scaled the walls of the garden as before--he neared the house.  All
was silent and deserted; his signal was unanswered--his murmured song brought no grateful light
to the lattice, no fairy footstep to the balcony. Dejected, and sad of heart, he retired from
the spot; and, returning home, sought a couch, to which even all the fatigue and excitement
he had undergone, could not win the forgetfulness of slumber.  The mystery that wrapt the maiden
of his homage, the rareness of their interviews, and the wild and poetical romance that made
a very principle of the chivalry of the Spanish Moors, had imparted to Muza's love for Leila
a passionate depth, which, at this day, and in more enervated climes, is unknown to the Mohammedan
lover.  His keenest inquiries had been unable to pierce the secret of her birth and station.
Little of the inmates of that guarded and lonely house was known in the neighbourhood; the
only one ever seen without its walls was an old man of the Jewish faith, supposed to be a superintendent
of the foreign slaves (for no Mohammedan slave would have been subjected to the insult of submission
to a Jew); and though there were rumours of the vast wealth and gorgeous luxury within the
mansion, it was supposed the abode of some Moorish emir absent from the city--and the interest
of the gossips was at this time absorbed in more weighty matters than the affairs of a neighbour.
But when, the next eve, and the next, Muza returned to the spot equally in vain, his impatience
and alarm could no longer be restrained; he resolved to lie in watch by the portals of the
house night and day, until, at least, he could discover some one of the inmates, whom he could
question of his love, and perhaps bribe to his service.  As with this resolution he was hovering
round the mansion, he beheld, stealing from a small door in one of the low wings of the house,
a bended and decrepit form: it supported its steps upon a staff; and, as now entering the garden,
it stooped by the side of a fountain to cull flowers and herbs by the light of the moon, the
Moor almost started to behold a countenance which resembled that of some ghoul or vampire haunting
the places of the dead.  He smiled at his own fear; and, with a quick and stealthy pace, hastened
through the trees, and, gaining the spot where the old man bent, placed his hand on his shoulder
ere his presence was perceived.

Ximen--for it was he--looked round eagerly, and a faint cry of terror broke from his lips.

"Hush!" said the Moor; "fear me not, I am a friend.  Thou art old, man-- gold is ever welcome
to the aged."  As he spoke, he dropped several broad pieces into the breast of the Jew, whose
ghastly features gave forth a yet more ghastly smile, as he received the gift, and mumbled forth,

"Charitable young man!  generous, benevolent, excellent young man!"

"Now then," said Muza, "tell me--you belong to this house--Leila, the maiden within--tell me
of her--is she well?"

"I trust so," returned the Jew; "I trust so, noble master."

"Trust so! know you not of her state?"

"Not I; for many nights I have not seen her, excellent sir," answered Ximen; "she hath left
Granada, she hath gone.  You waste your time and mar your precious health amidst these nightly
dews: they are unwholesome, very unwholesome at the time of the new moon."

"Gone!" echoed the Moor; "left Granada!--woe is me!--and whither?--there, there, more gold
for you,--old man, tell me whither?"

"Alas! I know not, most magnanimous young man; I am but a servant--I know nothing."

"When will she return?"

"I cannot tell thee."

"Who is thy master? who owns yon mansion?"

Ximen's countenance fell; he looked round in doubt and fear, and then, after a short pause,
answered,--"A wealthy man, good sir--a Moor of Africa; but he hath also gone; he but seldom
visits us; Granada is not so peaceful a residence as it was,--I would go too, if I could."

Muza released his hold of Ximen, who gazed at the Moor's working countenance with a malignant
smile--for Ximen hated all men.

"Thou hast done with me, young warrior?  Pleasant dreams to thee under the new moon--thou hadst
best retire to thy bed.  Farewell! bless thy charity to the poor old man!"

Muza heard him not; he remained motionless for some moments; and then with a heavy sigh as
that of one who has gained the mastery of himself after a bitter struggle, the said half aloud,
"Allah be with thee, Leila! Granada now is my only mistress."

CHAPTER V.

BOABDIL'S RECONCILIATION WITH HIS PEOPLE.

Several days had elapsed without any encounter between Moor and Christian; for Ferdinand's
cold and sober policy, warned by the loss he had sustained in the ambush of Muza, was now bent
on preserving rigorous restraint upon the fiery spirits he commanded.  He forbade all parties
of skirmish, in which the Moors, indeed, had usually gained the advantage, and contented himself
with occupying all the passes through which provisions could arrive at the besieged city. 
He commenced strong fortifications around his camp; and, forbidding assault on the Moors, defied
it against himself.

Meanwhile, Almamen had not returned to Granada.  No tidings of his fate reached the king; and
his prolonged disappearance began to produce visible and salutary effect upon the long-dormant
energies of Boabdil. The counsels of Muza, the exhortations of the queen-mother, the enthusiasm
of his mistress, Amine, uncounteracted by the arts of the magician, aroused the torpid lion
of his nature.  But still his army and his subjects murmured against him; and his appearance
in the Vivarrambla might possibly be the signal of revolt.  It was at this time that a most
fortunate circumstance at once restored to him the confidence and affections of his people.
His stern uncle, El Zagal--once a rival for his crown, and whose daring valour, mature age,
and military sagacity had won him a powerful party within the city--had been, some months since,
conquered by Ferdinand; and, in yielding the possessions he held, had been rewarded with a
barren and dependent principality.  His defeat, far from benefiting Boabdil, had exasperated
the Moors against their king. "For," said they, almost with one voice, "the brave El Zagal
never would have succumbed had Boabdil properly supported his arms."  And it was the popular
discontent and rage at El Zagal's defeat which had indeed served Boabdil with a reasonable
excuse for shutting himself in the strong fortress of the Alhambra.  It now happened that El
Zagal, whose dominant passion was hatred of his nephew, and whose fierce nature chafed at its
present cage, resolved in his old age to blast all his former fame by a signal treason to his
country.  Forgetting everything but revenge against his nephew, who he was resolved should
share his own ruin, he armed his subjects, crossed the country, and appeared at the head of
a gallant troop in the Spanish camp, an ally with Ferdinand against Granada.  When this was
heard by the Moors, it is impossible to conceive their indignant wrath: the crime of El Zagal
produced an instantaneous reaction in favour of Boabdil; the crowd surrounded the Alhambra
and with prayers and tears entreated the forgiveness of the king.  This event completed the
conquest of Boabdil over his own irresolution.  He ordained an assembly of the whole army in
the broad space of the Vivarrambla: and when at break of day he appeared in full armour in
the square, with Muza at his right hand, himself in the flower of youthful beauty, and proud
to feel once more a hero and a king, the joy of the people knew no limit; the air was rent
with cries of "Long live Boabdil el Chico!" and the young monarch, turning to Muza, with his
soul upon his brow exclaimed, "The hour has come--I am no longer El Zogoybi!"

CHAPTER V.

LEILA.--HER NEW LOVER.--PORTRAIT OF THE FIRST INQUISITOR OF SPAIN.--THE CHALICE RETURNED TO
THE LIPS OF ALMAMEN.

While thus the state of events within Granada, the course of our story transports us back to
the Christian camp.  It was in one of a long line of tents that skirted the pavilion of Isabel,
and was appropriated to the ladies attendant on the royal presence, that a young female sat
alone. The dusk of evening already gathered around, and only the outline of her form and features
was visible.  But even that, imperfectly seen,--the dejected attitude of the form, the drooping
head, the hands clasped upon the knees,--might have sufficed to denote the melancholy nature
of the reverie which the maid indulged.

"Ah," thought she, "to what danger am I exposed!  If my father, if my lover dreamed of the
persecution to which their poor Leila is abandoned!"

A few tears, large and bitter, broke from her eyes, and stole unheeded down her cheek.  At
that moment, the deep and musical chime of a bell was heard summoning the chiefs of the army
to prayer; for Ferdinand invested all his worldly schemes with a religious covering, and to
his politic war he sought to give the imposing character of a sacred crusade.

"That sound," thought she, sinking on her knees, "summons the Nazarenes to the presence of
their God.  It reminds me, a captive by the waters of Babylon, that God is ever with the friendless.
Oh! succour and defend me, Thou who didst look of old upon Ruth standing amidst the corn, and
didst watch over Thy chosen people in the hungry wilderness, and in the stranger's land."

Wrapt in her mute and passionate devotions, Leila remained long in her touching posture.  The
bell had ceased; all without was hushed and still --when the drapery, stretched across the
opening of the tent, was lifted, and a young Spaniard, cloaked, from head to foot, in a long
mantle, stood within the space.  He gazed in silence, upon the kneeling maiden; nor was it
until she rose that he made his presence audible.

"Ah, fairest!" said he, then, as he attempted to take her hand, "thou wilt not answer my letters--see
me, then, at thy feet.  It is thou who teachest me to kneel."

"You, prince."  said Leila, agitated, and in great and evident fear. "Why harass and insult
me thus?  Am I not sacred as a hostage and a charge? and are name, honour, peace, and all that
woman is taught to hold most dear, to be thus robbed from me under the pretext of a love dishonouring
to thee and an insult to myself?"

"Sweet one," answered Don Juan, with a slight laugh, "thou hast learned, within yonder walls,
a creed of morals little known to Moorish maidens, if fame belies them not.  Suffer me to teach
thee easier morality and sounder logic.  It is no dishonour to a Christian prince to adore
beauty like thine; it is no insult to a maiden hostage if the Infant of Spain proffer her the
homage of his heart.  But we waste time.  Spies, and envious tongues, and vigilant eyes, are
around us; and it is not often that I can baffle them as I have done now.  Fairest, hear me!"
and this time he succeeded in seizing the hand which vainly struggled against his clasp.  "Nay,
why so coy? what can female heart desire that my love cannot shower upon thine?  Speak but
the word, enchanting maiden, and I will bear thee from these scenes unseemly to thy gentle
eyes.  Amidst the pavilions of princes shalt thou repose; and, amidst gardens of the orange
and the rose, shalt thou listen to the vows of thine adorer.  Surely, in these arms thou wilt
not pine for a barbarous home and a fated city.  And if thy pride, sweet maiden, deafen thee
to the voice of nature, learn that the haughtiest dames of Spain would bend, in envious court,
to the beloved of their future king.  This night--listen to me--I say, listen-- this night
I will bear thee hence!  Be but mine, and no matter, whether heretic or infidel, or whatever
the priests style thee, neither Church nor king shall tear thee from the bosom of thy lover."

"It is well spoken, son of the most Christian monarch!" said a deep voice; and the Dominican,
Tomas de Torquemada, stood before the prince.

Juan, as if struck by a thunderbolt, released his hold, and, staggering back a few paces, seemed
to cower, abashed and humbled, before the eye of the priest, as it glared upon him through
the gathering darkness.

"Prince," said the friar, after a pause, "not to thee will our holy Church attribute this crime;
thy pious heart hath been betrayed by sorcery.  Retire!"

"Father," said the prince,--in a tone into which, despite his awe of that terrible man, THE
FIRST GRAND INQUISITOR OF SPAIN, his libertine spirit involuntarily forced itself, in a half
latent raillery,--"sorcery of eyes like those bewitched the wise son of a more pious sire than
even Ferdinand of Arragon." The use of the term "mistake" but seems to still another condition to . Hang We speak
of "insane" instead of "false" remembering where to be reproduced in the mental material of the
nature of objective reality is to be highlighted, so where anything else is to be remembered
as a fact of my own mental life, rather something that the confirmation or refutation is accessible
by the memory of others. The Unlike the memory error in this sense is the ignorance.

In my book "The Interpretation of Dreams (1900)" I have a number of distortions of historical and made at
all material actual guilt, which I after the appearance of Book with wonder I became aware.
I have found on closer examination of these, that they do not have sprung my ignorance, but on errors
of memory Back guide which can be cleared up by analysis.

a) On p. 266 I refer to as the birthplace of Schiller, the city of Marburg, whose name in the
Styria returns. The mistake is found in the analysis of a dream during a night journey, from which I
was awakened by the conductor from the station to be called Marburg. In the dream asking for a book by
Schiller. Now, Schiller is not in the university town Marburg, but born in the Swabian town
of Marbach. I claim that I do always I know.

b) On p. 135 Hasdrubal Hannibal's father is mentioned. This mistake was I really angry, But I was
encouraged in the view of such errors the most. In the history of Barkiden probably few readers
of the book know more than the author, the these errors down and wrote it in three corrections
overlooked. The father of Hannibal was called Hamilcar Barca, Hasdrubal was the name of Hannibal's
brother, incidentally, also his brother- and predecessor in the command.

c) On p. 177 p. 370 I say that Zeus emasculated his father Kronos and him from the throne crashes.
This abomination but I mistakenly pushed a generation, the Greek Mythology makes him commit by
Kronos on his father Uranus.

As it is now to explain that my memory is provided in this faithless points, while I am otherwise,
how to convince readers of the book, the most remote and unusual Material was made available? And also
that I carefully carried out in three corrections harvested as blind
to these errors by going?

It has been said of Lichtenberg, where he made a joke, there lies a problem hidden. Similarly, one
can say about the quoted passages of my book here: where a mistake is present, since a displacement
is behind it. More correctly: a dishonesty, a distortion, based on the finally repressed. I'm in
the analysis of dreams reported there been compelled by the mere nature of subjects, which belong
to the dream-thoughts, one hand, the analysis somewhere before rounding to cancel the other
hand, an indiscreet to behave detail by a slight distortion of the focus. I could not help and
had no other choice if I ever wanted to make examples and evidence, my Predicament led off with
necessity from the property of dreams, repressed, ie Bewusstseinsunfähigem to give expression.
It would still be enough left remained what more sensitive souls have taken offense. The misrepresentation
or concealment of myself yet known perpetuating thought has carried out now not a trace. What
I wanted to press, has often against my will by me access to the Recorded fought for and is it come
from me as an unnoticed error to light. In all three highlighted examples, incidentally, the
same underlying theme, the errors are descendants repressed thoughts, dealing with my late father.

ad. a) A person on the p. 266 analyzed dream through reading, will find some naked, some can guess
from hints that I broke in mind that an unfriendly Criticism would have included at the father.
In the continuation of this train of thoughts and memories now is an annoying story in which books
play a role and a business associate the father, who goes by the name of Marburg, the same name, by
its call in the same Southern railway station, I was awakened from sleep.
  The exhaustion
which followed this terrible penance seemed to restore the senses of the stern fanatic.  A
smile broke over the features, that bodily pain only released from the anguished expression
of mental and visionary struggles; and, when he rose, and drew the hair-cloth shirt over the
lacerated and quivering flesh, he said--"Now hast thou deigned to comfort and visit me, O pitying
Mother; and, even as by these austerities against this miserable body, is the spirit relieved
and soothed, so dost thou typify and betoken that men's bodies are not to be spared by those
who seek to save souls and bring the nations of the earth into thy fold."

With that thought the countenance of Torquemada reassumed its wonted rigid and passionless
composure; and, replacing the scourge, yet clotted with blood, in his bosom, he pursued his
way to the royal tent.

He found Ferdinand poring over the accounts of the vast expenses of his military preparations,
which he had just received from his treasurer; and the brow of the thrifty, though ostentatious
monarch, was greatly overcast by the examination.

"By the Bulls of Guisando!" said the king, gravely, "I purchase the salvation of my army in
this holy war at a marvellous heavy price; and if the infidels hold out much longer, we shalt
have to pawn our very patrimony of Arragon."

"Son," answered the Dominican, "to purposes like thine fear not that Providence itself will
supply the worldly means.  But why doubtest thou? are not the means within thy reach?  It is
just that thou alone shouldst not support the wars by which Christendom is glorified.  Are
there not others?"

"I know what thou wouldst say, father," interrupted the king, quickly-- "thou wouldst observe
that my brother monarchs should assist me with arms and treasure.  Most just.  But they are
avaricious and envious, Tomas; and Mammon hath corrupted them."

"Nay, not to kings pointed my thought."

"Well, then," resumed the king, impatiently, "thou wouldst imply that mine own knights and
nobles should yield up their coffers, and mortgage their possessions.  And so they ought; but
they murmur already at what they have yielded to our necessities."

"And in truth," rejoined the friar, "these noble warriors should not be shorn of a splendour
that well becomes the valiant champions of the Church.  Nay, listen to me, son, and I may suggest
a means whereby, not the friends, but enemies, of the Catholic faith shall contribute to the
down fall of the Paynim.  In thy dominions, especially those newly won, throughout Andalusia,
in the kingdom of Cordova, are men of enormous wealth; the very caverns of the earth are sown
with the impious treasure they have plundered from Christian hands, and consume in the furtherance
of their iniquity.  Sire, I speak of the race that crucified the Lord."

"The Jews--ay, but the excuse--"

"Is before thee.  This traitor, with whom thou boldest intercourse, who vowed to thee to render
up Granada, and who was found the very next morning, fighting with the Moors, with the blood
of a Spanish martyr red upon his hands, did he not confess that his fathers were of that hateful
race? did he not bargain with thee to elevate his brethren to the rank of Christians? and has
be not left with thee, upon false pretences, a harlot of his faith, who, by sorcery and the
help of the Evil One, hath seduced into frantic passion the heart of the heir of the most Christian
king?"

"Ha! thus does that libertine boy ever scandalise us!" said the king, bitterly.

"Well," pursued the Dominican, not heeding the interruption, "have you not here excuse enough
to wring from the whole race the purchase of their existence?  Note the glaring proof of this
conspiracy of hell.  The outcasts of the earth employed this crafty agent to contract with
thee for power; and, to consummate their guilty designs, the arts that seduced Solomon are
employed against thy son.  The beauty of the strange woman captivates his senses; so that,
through the future sovereign of Spain the counsels of Jewish craft may establish the domination
of Jewish ambition. How knowest thou," he added as he observed that Ferdinand listened to him
with earnest attention--"how knowest thou but what the next step might have been thy secret
assassination, so that the victim of witchcraft, the minion of the Jewess, might reign in the
stead of the mighty and unconquerable Ferdinand?"

"Go on, father," said the king, thoughtfully; "I see, at least, enough to justify an impost
upon these servitors of Mammon."

"But, though common sense suggests to us," continued Torquemada, "that this disguised Israelite
could not have acted on so vast a design without the instigation of his brethren, not only
in Granada, but throughout all Andalusia,--would it not be right to obtain from him his confession,
and that of the maiden, within the camp, so that we may have broad and undeniable evidence,
whereon to act, and to still all cavil, that may come not only from the godless, but even from
the too tender scruples of the righteous?  Even the queen--whom the saints ever guard!--hath
ever too soft a heart for these infidels; and--"

"Right!" cried the king, again breaking upon Torquemada; "Isabel, the queen of Castile, must
be satisfied of the justice of all our actions."

"And, should it be proved that thy throne or life were endangered, and that magic was exercised
to entrap her royal son into a passion for a Jewish maiden, which the Church holds a crime
worthy of excommunication itself, surely, instead of counteracting, she would assist our schemes."

"Holy friend," said Ferdinand, with energy, "ever a comforter, both for this world and the
next, to thee, and to the new powers intrusted to thee, we commit this charge; see to it at
once; time presses--Granada is obstinate--the treasury waxes low."

"Son, thou hast said enough," replied the Dominican, closing his eyes, and muttering a short
thanksgiving.  "Now then to my task."

"Yet stay," said the king, with an altered visage; "follow me to my oratory within: my heart
is heavy, and I would fain seek the solace of the confessional."

The monk obeyed: and while Ferdinand, whose wonderful abilities were mingled with the weakest
superstition, who persecuted from policy, yet believed, in his own heart, that he punished
but from piety,--confessed with penitent tears the grave offences of aves forgotten, and beads
untold; and while the Dominican admonished, rebuked, or soothed,--neither prince nor monk ever
dreamt that there was an error to confess in, or a penance to be adjudged to, the cruelty that
tortured a fellow-being, or the avarice that sought pretences for the extortion of a whole people.

CHAPTER VII.

THE TRIBUNAL AND THE MIRACLE

It was the dead of night--the army was hushed in sleep--when four soldiers belonging to the
Holy Brotherhood, bearing with them one whose manacles proclaimed him a prisoner, passed in
steady silence to a huge tent in the neighbourhood of the royal pavilion.  A deep dyke, formidable
barricadoes, and sentries stationed at frequent intervals, testified the estimation in which
the safety of this segment of the camp was held.  The tent to which the soldiers approached
was, in extent, larger than even the king's pavilion itself--a mansion of canvas, surrounded
by a wide wall of massive stones; and from its summit gloomed, in the clear and shining starlight,
a small black pennant, on which was wrought a white broad-pointed cross.  The soldiers halted
at the gate in the wall, resigned their charge, with a whispered watchword, to two gaunt sentries;
and then (relieving the sentries who proceeded on with the prisoner) remained, mute and motionless,
at the post: for stern silence and Spartan discipline were the attributes of the brotherhood
of St. Hermandad.

The prisoner, as he now neared the tent, halted a moment, looked round steadily, as if to fix
the spot in his remembrance, and then, with an impatient though stately gesture, followed his
guards.  He passed two divisions of the tent, dimly lighted, and apparently deserted.  A man,
clad in long black robes, with a white cross on his breast, now appeared; there was an interchange
of signals in dumb-show-and in another moment Almamen, the Hebrew, stood within a large chamber
(if so that division of the tent might be called) hung with black serge.  At the upper part
of the space was an estrado, or platform, on which, by a long table, sat three men; while at
the head of the board was seen the calm and rigid countenance of Tomas de Torquemada.  The
threshold of the tent was guarded by two men, in garments similar in hue and fashion to those
of the figure who had ushered Almamen into the presence of the inquisitor, each bearing a long
lance, and with a long two-edged sword by his side. This made all the inhabitants of that melancholy
and ominous apartment.

The Israelite looked round with a pale brow, but a flashing and scornful eye; and, when he
met the gaze of the Dominican, it almost seemed as if those two men, each so raised above his
fellows, by the sternness of his nature and the energy of his passions, sought by a look alone
to assert his own supremacy and crush his foe.  Yet, in truth, neither did justice to the other;
and the indignant disdain of Almamen was retorted by the cold and icy contempt of the Dominican.

"Prisoner," said Torquemada (the first to withdraw his gaze), "a less haughty and stubborn
demeanour might have better suited thy condition: but no matter; our Church is meek and humble.
We have sent for thee in a charitable and paternal hope; for although, as spy and traitor,
thy life is already forfeited, yet would we fain redeem and spare it to repentance.  That hope
mayst thou not forego, for the nature of all of us is weak and clings to life--that straw of
the drowning seaman."

"Priest, if such thou art," replied the Hebrew, "I have already, when first brought to this
camp, explained the causes of my detention amongst the troops of the Moor.  It was my zeal
for the king of Spain that brought me into that peril.  Escaping from that peril, incurred
in his behalf, is the king of Spain to be my accuser and my judge?  If, however, my life now
be sought as the grateful return for the proffer of inestimable service, I stand here to yield
it.  Do thy worst; and tell thy master, that he loses more by my death than he can win by the
lives of thirty thousand warriors."

"Cease this idle babble," said the monk-inquisitor, contemptuously, "nor think thou couldst
ever deceive, with thy empty words, the mighty intellect of Ferdinand of Spain.  Thou hast
now to defend thyself against still graver charges than those of treachery to the king whom
thou didst profess to serve.  Yea, misbeliever as thou art, it is thine to vindicate thyself
from blasphemy against the God thou shouldst adore.  Confess the truth: thou art of the tribe
and faith of Israel?"

The Hebrew frowned darkly.  "Man," said he, solemnly, "is a judge of the deeds of men, but
not of their opinions.  I will not answer thee."

"Pause!  We have means at hand that the strongest nerves and the stoutest hearts have failed
to encounter.  Pause--confess!"

"Thy threat awes me not," said the Hebrew; "but I am human; and since thou wouldst know the
truth, thou mayst learn it without the torture. I am of the same race as the apostles of thy
Church--I am a Jew."

"He confesses--write down the words.  Prisoner, thou hast done wisely; and we pray the Lord
that, acting thus, thou mayst escape both the torture and the death.  And in that faith thy
daughter was reared? Answer."

"My daughter! there is no charge against her!  By the God of Sinai and Horeb, you dare not
touch a hair of that innocent head!"

"Answer," repeated the inquisitor, coldly.

"I do answer.  She was brought up no renegade to her father's faith."

"Write down the confession.  Prisoner," resumed the Dominican, after a pause, "but few more
questions remain; answer them truly, and thy life is saved.  In thy conspiracy to raise thy
brotherhood of Andalusia to power and influence--or, as thou didst craftily term it, to equal
laws with the followers of our blessed Lord; in thy conspiracy (by what dark arts I seek not
now to know protege nos, beate Domine!) to entangle in wanton affections to thy daughter the
heart of the Infant of Spain-silence, I say--be still! in this conspiracy, thou wert aided,
abetted, or instigated by certain Jews of Andalusia--"

"Hold, priest!" cried Almamen, impetuously, "thou didst name my child. Do I hear aright?  Placed
under the sacred charge of a king, and a belted knight, has she--oh!  answer me, I implore
thee--been insulted by the licentious addresses of one of that king's own lineage?  Answer!
I am a Jew--but I am a father and a man."

"This pretended passion deceives us not," said the Dominican, who, himself cut off from the
ties of life, knew nothing of their power. "Reply to the question put to thee: name thy accomplices."

"I have told thee all.  Thou hast refused to answer one.  I scorn and defy thee: my lips are
closed."

The Grand Inquisitor glanced to his brethren, and raised his hand.  His assistants whispered
each other; one of them rose, and disappeared behind the canvas at the back of the tent.  Presently
the hangings were withdrawn; and the prisoner beheld an, interior chamber, hung with various
instruments the nature of which was betrayed by their very shape; while by the rack, placed
in the centre of that dreary chamber, stood a tall and grisly figure, his arms bare, his eyes
bent, as by an instinct, on the prisoner.

Almamen gazed at these dread preparations with an unflinching aspect. Since it fell on me that one day something between the fingers of the right hand,
rolled it went in the bag, there continued to play, it pulled out again, etc. I did not ask
what he had in his hand, but he showed it to me by the hand of a sudden opened.


"Priest," said he, in a more humble accent than he had yet assumed, "the tidings that thou
didst communicate to me respecting the sole daughter of my house and love bewildered and confused
me for the moment.  Suffer me but for a single moment to recollect my senses, and I will answer
without compulsion all thou mayst ask.  Permit thy questions to be repeated."

The Dominican, whose cruelty to others seemed to himself sanctioned by his own insensibility
to fear, and contempt for bodily pain, smiled with bitter scorn at the apparent vacillation
and weakness of the prisoner: but, as he delighted not in torture merely for torture's sake,
he motioned to the guards to release the Israelite; and replied in a voice unnaturally mild
and kindly, considering the circumstances of the scene,

"Prisoner, could we save thee from pain, even by the anguish of our own flesh and sinews, Heaven
is our judge that we would willingly undergo the torture which, with grief and sorrow, we ordained
to thee. 

Go! This is easily said. If I mistake not, it is the genuine force of nature that attracts you
to these women, the lack of tame and lame guesthouse and Education Institute, the unbridled with a word.
  As he
spoke he bent his face within his bosom, which he covered, as in profound meditation, with
the folds of his long robe. Scarcely half the brief time allowed him had expired, when he again
lifted his countenance and, as he did so, flung back his garment.  The Dominican uttered a
loud cry; the guards started back in awe.  A wonderful change had come over the intended victim;
he seemed to stand amongst them literally--wrapt in fire; flames burst from his lip, and played
with his long locks, as, catching the glowing hue, they curled over his shoulders like serpents
of burning light: blood-red were his breast and limbs, his haughty crest, and his outstretched
arm; and as for a single moment, he met the shuddering eyes of his judges, he seemed, indeed,
to verify all the superstitions of the time--no longer the trembling captive but the mighty
demon or the terrible magician. You had to notice that the theory of mental inequality the sounds made rigorous
only for the elucidation of the sound disturbances, and the pros and echoes sufficient. Where the
word faults can not be reduced to sound disturbances, such as the Substitutions and contaminations
of words have also the cause of it is harmless Promise outside of the intended relationship
and looking for this fact by fine examples shown.
 There was a dead silence, broken by a cry and a groan; and when,
after some minutes, the darkness gradually dispersed, Almamen was gone.  One, of the guards
lay bathed in blood upon the ground; they raised him: he had attempted to seize the prisoner,
and had been stricken with a mortal wound.  He died as he faltered forth the explanation. 
In the confusion and dismay of the scene none noticed, till long afterwards, that the prisoner
had paused long enough to strip the dying guard of his long mantle; a proof that he feared
his more secret arts might not suffice to bear him safe through the camp, without the aid of
worldly stratagem.

"The fiend hath been amongst us!" said the Dominican, solemnly falling on his knees,--"let
us pray!"

