Bunce had been now sufficiently long in the village to enable those about him to come at a
knowledge of his parts; and his accomplishments, in the several respects referred to, were
by this time generally well understood. The inducement was sufficiently strong with the jailer;
and, at length, having secured the main entrance of the jail carefully, he strapped the key
to a leathern girdle, which he wore about him, lodging it in the breast-pocket of his coat,
where he conceived it perfectly safe, he prepared to go along with his worthy brother-in-law.
Nor was the younger Brooks forgotten. Being a tall, good-looking lad of sixteen, Tongs insisted
it was high time he should appear among men; and the invitation of the pedler was opportune,
as affording a happy occasion for his initiation into some of those practices, esteemed, by
a liberal courtesy, significant of manliness.

With everything in proper trim, Bunce stood at the entrance of his lodge, ready to receive
them. The preliminaries were soon despatched, and we behold them accordingly, all four, comfortably
seated around a huge oaken table in the centre of the apartment. There was the jug, and there
the glasses--the sugar, the peppermint, the nutmegs--the pipes and tobacco--all convenient,
and sufficiently tempting for the unscrupulous. The pedler did the honors with no little skill,
and Tongs plunged headlong into the debauch. The whiskey was never better, and found, for this
reason, anything but security where it stood. Glass after glass, emptied only to be replenished,
attested the industrious hospitality of the host, not less than its own excellence. Tongs,
averaging three draughts to one of his companion's, was soon fairly under way in his progress
to that state of mental self-glorification in which the world ceases to have vicissitudes,
and the animal realizes the abstractions of an ancient philosophy, and denies all pain to life.

Brooks, however, though not averse to the overcoming element, had more of that vulgar quality
of prudence than his brother-in-law, and far more than was thought amiable in the opinion of
the pedler. For some time, therefore, he drank with measured scrupulousness; and it was with
no small degree of anxiety that Bunce plied him with the bottle--complaining of his unsociableness,
and watching, with the intensity of any other experimentalist, the progress of his scheme upon
him. As for the lad--the younger Brooks--it was soon evident that, once permitted, and even
encouraged to drink, as he had been, by his superiors, he would not, after a little while,
give much if any inconvenience to the conspirators. The design of the pedler was considerably
advanced by Tongs, who, once intoxicated himself, was not slow in the endeavor to bring all
around him under the same influence.

"Drink, Brooks--drink, old fellow," he exclaimed; "as you are a true man, drink, and don't
fight shy of the critter! Whiskey, my boy--old Monongahely like this, I say--whiskey is wife
and children--house and horse--lands and niggers--liberty and [hiccup] plenty to live on! Don't
you see how I drive ahead, and don't care for the hind wheels? It's all owing to whiskey! Grog,
I say--Hark ye, Mr. Pedler--grog, I say, is the wheels of life: it carries a man for'ad. Why
don't men go for'ad in the world? What's the reason now? I'll tell you. They're afeared. Well,
now, who's afeared when he's got a broadside of whiskey in him? Nobody--nobody's afeared but
you--you, Ben Brooks, you're a d----d crick--crick--you're always afeared of something, or
nothing; for, after all, whenever you're afeared of something, it turns out to be nothing!
All 'cause you don't drink like a man. That's his cha-cha-rack-ter, Mr. Bunce; and it's all
owing 'cause he won't drink!"

"Guess there's no sparing of reason in that bit of argument, now, I tell you, Mr. Tongs. Bless
my heart--it's no use talking, no how, but I'd a been clean done up, dead as a door-nail, if
it hadn't been for drink. Strong drink makes strong. Many's the time, and the freezing cold,
and the hard travelling in bad roads, and other dreadful fixins I've seed, would soon ha' settled
me up, if it hadn't been for that same good stuff there, that Master Brooks does look as if
he was afeared on. Now, don't be afeared, Master Brooks. There's no teeth in whiskey, and it
never bites nobody."

"No," said Brooks, with the utmost simplicity; "only when they take too much."

"How?" said the pedler, looking as if the sentence contained some mysterious meaning. Brooks
might have explained, but for Tongs, who dashed in after this fashion:--

"And who takes too much? You don't mean to say I takes too much, Ben Brooks. I'd like to hear
the two-legged critter, now, who'd say I takes more of the stuff than does me good. I drinks
in reason, for the benefit of my health; and jest, you see, as a sort of medicine, Mr. Bunce;
and, Brooks, you knows I never takes a drop more than is needful."

"Sometimes--sometimes, Tongs, you know you ain't altogether right under it--now and then you
take a leetle too much for your good," was the mild response of Brooks, to the almost fierce
speech of his less scrupulous brother-in-law. The latter, thus encountered, changed his ground
with singular rapidity.

"Well, by dogs!--and what of that?--and who is it says I shan't, if it's my notion? I'd like
now to see the boy that'll stand up agin me and make such a speech. Who says I shan't take
what I likes--and that I takes more than is good for me? Does you say so, Mr. Bunce?"

"No, thank ye, no. How should I say what ain't true? You don't take half enough, now, it's
my idee, neither on you. It's all talk and no cider, and that I call monstrous dry work. Come,
pass round the bottle. Here's to you, Master Tongs--Master Brooks, I drink your very good health.
But fill up, fill up--you ain't got nothing in your tumbler."

"No, he's a sneak--you're a sneak, Brooks, if you don't fill up to the hub. Go the whole hog,
boy, and don't twist your mouth as if the stuff was physic. It's what I call nation good, now;
no mistake in it, I tell you."

"Hah! that's a true word--there's no mistake in this stuff. It is jest now what I calls ginywine."

"True Monongahely, Master Bunce. Whoever reckoned to find a Yankee pedler with a raal good
taste for Monongahely? Give us your fist, Mr. Bunce; I see you know's what's what. You ain't
been among us for nothing. You've larned something by travelling; and, by dogs! you'll come
to be something yit, if you live long enough--if so be you can only keep clear of the old range."

The pedler winced under the equivocal compliments of his companion, but did not suffer anything
of this description to interfere with the vigorous prosecution of his design. He had the satisfaction
to perceive that Brooks had gradually accommodated himself not a little to the element in which
his brother-in-law, Tongs, was already floating happily; and the boy, his son, already wore
the features of one over whose senses the strong liquor was momentarily obtaining the mastery.
But these signs did not persuade him into any relaxation of his labors; on the contrary, encouraged
by success, he plied the draughts more frequently and freely than before, and with additional
evidence of the influence of the potation upon those who drank, when he found that he was enabled,
unperceived, to deposit the contents of his own tumbler, in most instances, under the table
around which they gathered. In the cloud of smoke encircling them, and sent up from their several
pipes, Bunce could perceive the face of his colleague in the conspiracy peering in occasionally
upon the assembly, and at length, on some slight pretence, he approached the aperture agreeably
to the given signal, and received from the hands of the landlord a vial containing a strong
infusion of opium, which he placed cautiously in his bosom, and awaited the moment of more
increased stupefaction to employ it. So favorably had the liquor operated by this time upon
the faculties of all, that the elder Brooks grew garrulous and full of jest at the expense
of his son--who now, completely overcome, had sunk down with his head upon the table in a profound
slumber. The pedler joined, as well as Tongs, in the merriment--this latter personage, by the
way, having now put himself completely under the control of the ardent spirit, and exhibiting
all the appearance of a happy madness. He howled like the wolf, imitated sundry animals, broke
out into catches of song, which he invariably failed to finish, and, at length, grappling his
brother-in-law, Brooks, around the neck, with both arms, as he sat beside him, he swore by
all that was strong in Monongahely, he should give them a song.

"That's jest my idee, now, Master Tongs. A song is a main fine thing, now, to fill up the chinks.
First a glass, then a puff or two, and then a song."

Brooks, who, in backwood parlance, was "considerably up a stump"--that is to say, half drunk--after
a few shows of resistance, and the utterance of some feeble scruples, which were all rapidly
set aside by his companions, proceeded to pour forth the rude melody which follows:--

    THE HOW-D'YE-DO BOY.

      "For a how-d'ye-do boy, 'tis pleasure enough
       To have a sup of such goodly stuff--
       To float away in a sky of fog,
       And swim the while in a sea of grog;
               So, high or low,
               Let the world go,
    The how-d'ye-do boy don't care for it--no--no--no--no."

Tonga, who seemed to be familiar with the uncouth dithyrambic, joined in the chorus, with a
tumultuous discord, producing a most admirable effect; the pedler dashing in at the conclusion,
and shouting the finale with prodigious compass of voice. The song proceeded:--

      "For a how-d'ye-do boy, who smokes and drinks,
       He does not care who cares or thinks;
       Would Grief deny him to laugh and sing,
       He knocks her down with a single sling--
               So, high or low,
               Let the world go,
    The how-d'ye-do boy don't care for it--no--no--no--no.

      "The how-d'ye-do boy is a boy of the night--
       It brings no cold, and it does not fright;
       He buttons his coat and laughs at the shower,
       And he has a song for the darkest hour--
               So, high or low,
               Let the world go,
    The how-d'ye-do boy don't care for it--no--no--no--no."

The song gave no little delight to all parties. Tongs shouted, the pedler roared applause,
and such was the general satisfaction, that it was no difficult thing to persuade Brooks to
the demolition of a bumper, which Bunce adroitly proposed to the singer's own health. It was
while the hilarity thus produced was at its loudest, that the pedler seized the chance to pour
a moderate portion of the narcotic into the several glasses of his companions, while a second
time filling them; but, unfortunately for himself, not less than the design in view, just at
this moment Brooks grew awkwardly conscious of his own increasing weakness, having just reason
enough left to feel that he had already drunk too much. With a considerable show of resolution,
therefore, he thrust away the glass so drugged for his benefit, and declared his determination
to do no more of that business. He withstood all the suggestions of the pedler on the subject,
and the affair began to look something less than hopeless when he proceeded to the waking up
of his son, who, overcome by the liquor, was busily employed in a profound sleep, with his
head upon the table.

Tongs, who had lost nearly all the powers of action, though retaining not a few of his parts
of speech, now came in fortunately to the aid of the rather-discomfited pedler. Pouring forth
a volley of oaths, in which his more temperate brother-in-law was denounced as a mean-spirited
critter, who couldn't drink with his friend or fight with his enemy, he made an ineffectual
effort to grapple furiously with the offender, while he more effectually arrested his endeavor
to waken up his son. It is well, perhaps, that his animal man lacked something of its accustomed
efficiency, and resolutely refused all co-operation with his mood; or, it is more than probable,
such was his wrath, that his more staid brother-in-law would have been subjected to some few
personal tests of blow and buffet. The proceedings throughout suggested to the mind of the
pedler a mode of executing his design, by proposing a bumper all round, with the view of healing
the breach between the parties, and as a final draught preparatory to breaking up.

A suggestion so reasonable could not well be resisted; and, with the best disposition in the
world toward sobriety, Brooks was persuaded to assent to the measure. Unhappily, however, for
the pedler, the measure was so grateful to Tongs, that, before the former could officiate,
the latter, with a desperate effort, reached forward, and, possessing himself of his own glass,
he thrust another, which happened to be the only undrugged one, and which Bunce had filled
for himself, into the grasp of the jailer. The glass designed for Brooks was now in the pedler's
own hands, and no time was permitted him for reflection. With a doubt as to whether he had
not got hold of the posset meant for his neighbor, Bunce was yet unable to avoid the difficulty;
and, in a moment, in good faith, the contents of the several glasses were fairly emptied by
their holders. There was a pause of considerable duration; the several parties sank back quietly
into their seats; and, supposing from appearances that the effect of the drug had been complete,
the pedler, though feeling excessively stupid and strange, had yet recollection enough to give
the signal to his comrade. A moment only elapsed, when Munro entered the apartment, seemingly
unperceived by all but the individual who had called him; and, as an air of considerable vacancy
and repose overspread all the company he naturally enough concluded the potion had taken due
hold of the senses of the one whom it was his chief object to overcome. Without hesitation,
therefore, and certainly asking no leave, he thrust one hand into the bosom of the worthy jailer,
while the other was employed in taking a sure hold of his collar. To his great surprise, however,
he found that his man suffered from no lethargy, though severely bitten by the drink. Brooks
made fierce resistance; though nothing at such a time, or indeed at any time, in the hands
of one so powerfully built as Munro.

"Hello! now--who are you, I say? Hands off!--Tongs! Tongs!--Hands off!--Tongs, I say--"

But Tongs heard not, or heeded not, any of the rapid exclamations of the jailer, who continued
to struggle. Munro gave a single glance to the pedler, whose countenance singularly contrasted
with the expression which, in the performance of such a duty, and at such a time, it might
have been supposed proper for it to have worn. There was a look from his eyes of most vacant
and elevated beatitude; a simper sat upon his lips, which parted ineffectually with the speech
that he endeavored to make. A still lingering consciousness of something to be done, prompted
him to rise, however, and stumble toward the landlord, who, while scuffling with the jailer,
thus addressed him:--

"Why, Bunce, it's but half done!--you've bungled. See, he's too sober by half!"

"Sober? no, no--guess he's drunk--drunk as a gentleman. I say, now--what must I do?"

"Do?" muttered the landlord, between his teeth, and pointing to Tongs, who reeled and raved
in his seat, "do as I do!" And, at the word, with a single blow of his fist, he felled the
still refractory jailer with as much ease as if he had been an infant in his hands. The pedler,
only half conscious, turned nevertheless to the half-sleeping Tongs, and resolutely drove his
fist into his face.

It was at that moment that the nostrum, having taken its full effect, deprived him of the proper
force which alone could have made the blow available for the design which he had manfully enough
undertaken. The only result of the effort was to precipitate him, with an impetus not his own,
though deriving much of its effect from his own weight, upon the person of the enfeebled Tongs:
the toper clasped him round with a corresponding spirit, and they both rolled upon the floor
in utter imbecility, carrying with them the table around which they had been seated, and tumbling
into the general mass of bottles, pipes, and glasses, the slumbering youth, who, till that
moment, lay altogether ignorant of the catastrophe.

Munro, in the meanwhile, had possessed himself of the desired keys; and throwing a sack, with
which he had taken care to provide himself, over the head of the still struggling but rather
stupified jailer, he bound the mouth of it with cords closely around his body, and left him
rolling, with more elasticity and far less comfort than the rest of the party, around the floor
of the apartment.

He now proceeded to look at the pedler; and seeing his condition, though much wondering at
his falling so readily into his own temptation--never dreaming of the mistake which he had
made--he did not waste time to rouse him up, as he plainly saw he could get no further service
out of him. A moment's reflection taught him, that, as the condition of Bunce himself would
most probably free him from any suspicion of design, the affair told as well for his purpose
as if the original arrangement had succeeded. Without more pause, therefore, he left the house,
carefully locking the doors on the outside, so as to delay egress, and hastened immediately
to the release of the prisoner.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

FREEDOM--FLIGHT.

The landlord lost no time in freeing the captive. A few minutes sufficed to find and fit the
keys; and, penetrating at once to the cell of Ralph Colleton, he soon made the youth acquainted
with as much of the circumstances of his escape as might be thought necessary for the satisfaction
of his immediate curiosity. He wondered at the part taken by Munro in the affair, but hesitated
not to accept his assistance. Though scrupulous, and rigidly so, not to violate the laws, and
having a conscientious regard to all human and social obligations, he saw no immorality in
flying from a sentence, however agreeable to law, in all respects so greatly at variance with
justice. A second intimation was not wanting to his decision; and, without waiting until the
landlord should unlock the chain which secured him, he was about to dart forward into the passage,
when the restraining check which it gave to his forward movement warned him of the difficulty.

Fortunately, the obstruction was small: the master-key, not only of the cells, but of the several
locks to the fetters of the prison, was among the bunch of which the jailer had been dispossessed;
and, when found, it performed its office. The youth was again free; and a few moments only
had elapsed, after the departure of Munro from the house of the pedler, when both Ralph and
his deliverer were upon the high-road, and bending their unrestrained course toward the Indian
nation.

"And now, young man," said the landlord, "you are free. I have performed my promise to one
whose desire in this matter jumps full with my own. I should have been troubled enough had
you perished for the death of Forrester, though, to speak the truth, I should not have risked
myself, as I have done to-night, but for my promise to her."

"Who?--of whom do you speak? To whom do I owe all this, if it comes not of your own head?"

"And you do not conjecture? Have you not a thought on the subject? Was it likely, think you,
that the young woman, who did not fear to go to a stranger's chamber at midnight, in order
to save him from his enemy, would forget him altogether when a greater danger was before him?"

"And to Miss Munro again do I owe my life? Noble girl! how shall I requite--how acknowledge
my deep responsibility to her?"

"You can not! I have not looked on either of you for nothing; and my observation has taught
me all your feelings and hers. You can not reward her as she deserves to be rewarded--as, indeed,
she only can be rewarded by you, Mr. Colleton. Better, therefore, that you seek to make no
acknowledgments."

"What mean you? Your words have a signification beyond my comprehension. I know that I am unable
to requite services such as hers, and such an endeavor I surely should not attempt; but that
I feel gratitude for her interposition may not well be questioned--the deepest gratitude; for
in this deed, with your aid, she relieves me, not merely from death, but the worse agony of
that dreadful form of death. My acknowledgments for this service are nothing, I am well aware;
but these she shall have: and what else have I to offer, which she would be likely to accept?"

"There is, indeed, one thing, Mr. Colleton--now that I reflect--which it may be in your power
to do, and which may relieve you of some of the obligations which you owe to her interposition,
here and elsewhere."

The landlord paused for a moment, and looked hesitatingly in Ralph's countenance. The youth
saw and understood the expression, and replied readily:--

"Doubt not, Mr. Munro, that I shall do all things consistent with propriety, in my power to
do, that may take the shape and character of requital for this service; anything for Miss Munro,
for yourself or others, not incompatible with the character of the gentleman. Speak, sir: if
you can suggest a labor of any description, not under this head, which would be grateful to
yourself or her, fear not to speak, and rely upon my gratitude to serve you both."

"I thank you, Mr. Colleton; your frankness relieves me of some heavy thoughts, and I shall
open my mind freely to you on the subject which now troubles it. I need not tell you what my
course of life has been. I need not tell you what it is now. Bad enough, Mr. Colleton--bad
enough, as you must know by this time. Life, sir, is uncertain with all persons, but far more
uncertain with him whose life is such as mine. I know not the hour, sir, when I may be knocked
on the head. I have no confidence in the people I go with; I have nothing to hope from the
sympathies of society, or the protection of the laws; and I have now arrived at that time of
life when my own experience is hourly repeating in my ears the words of scripture: 'The wages
of sin is death.' Mine has been a life of sin, Mr. Colleton, and I must look for its wages.
These thoughts have been troubling me much of late, and I feel them particularly heavy now.
But, don't think, sir, that fear for myself makes up my suffering. I fear for that poor girl,
who has no protector, and may be doomed to the control of one who would make a hell on earth
for all under his influence. He has made a hell of it for me."

"Who is he? whom do you mean?"

"You should know him well enough by this time, for he has sought your life often enough already--who
should I mean, if not Guy Rivers?"

"And how is she at the mercy of this wretch?"

The landlord continued as if he had not heard the inquiry:

"Well, as I say, I know not how long I shall be able to take care of and provide for that poor
girl, whose wish has prompted me this night to what I have undertaken. She was my brother's
child, Mr. Colleton, and a noble creature she is. If I live, sir, she will have to become the
wife of Rivers; and, though I love her as my own--as I have never loved my own--yet she must
abide the sacrifice from which, while I live, there is no escape. But something tells me, sir,
I have not long to live. I have a notion which makes me gloomy, and which has troubled me ever
since you have been in prison. One dream comes to me every night--whenever I sleep--and I wake,
all over perspiration, and with a terror I'm ashamed of. In this dream I see my brother always,
and always with the same expression. He looks at me long and mournfully, and his finger is
uplifted, as if in warning. I hear no word from his lips, but they are in motion as if he spoke,
and then he walks slowly away. Thus, for several nights, has my mind been haunted, and I'm
sure it is not for nothing. It warns me that the time is not very far distant when I shall
receive the wages of a life like mine--the wages of sin--the death, perhaps--who knows?--the
death of the felon!"

"These are fearful fancies, indeed, Mr. Munro; and, whether we think on them or not, will have
their influence over the strongest-minded of us all: but the thoughts which they occasion to
your mind, while they must be painful enough, may be the most useful, if they awaken regret
of the past, and incite to amendment in the future. Without regarding them as the presentiments
of death, or of any fearful change, I look upon them only as the result of your own calm reflections
upon the unprofitable nature of vice; its extreme unproductiveness in the end, however enticing
in the beginning; and the painful privations of human sympathy and society, which are the inevitable
consequences of its indulgence. These fancies are the sleepless thoughts, the fruit of an active
memory, which, at such a time, unrestrained by the waking judgment, mingles up the counsels
and the warnings of your brother and the past, with all the images and circumstances of the
present time. But--go on with your suggestion. Let me do what I can for the good of those in
whom you are interested."

"You are right: whatever may be my apprehensions, life is uncertain enough, and needs no dreams
to make it more so. Still, I can not rid myself of this impression, which sticks to me like
a shadow. Night after night I have seen him--just as I saw him a year before he died. But his
looks were full of meaning; and when his lips opened, though I heard not a word, they seemed
to me to say, 'The hour is at hand!' I am sure they spoke the truth, and I must prepare for
it. If I live, Mr. Colleton, Lucy must marry Rivers: there's no hope for her escape. If I die,
there's no reason for the marriage, for she can then bid him defiance. She is willing to marry
him now merely on my account; for, to say in words, what you no doubt understand, I am at his
mercy. If I perish before the marriage take place, it will not take place; and she will then
need a protector--"

"Say no more," exclaimed the youth, as the landlord paused for an instant--"say no more. It
will be as little as I can say, when I assure you, that all that my family can do for her happiness--all
that I can do--shall be done. Be at ease on this matter, and believe me that I promise you
nothing which my heart would not strenuously insist upon my performing. She shall be a sister
to me."

As he spoke, the landlord warmly pressed his hand, leaning forward from his saddle as he did
so, but without a single accompanying word. The dialogue was continued, at intervals, in a
desultory form, and without sustaining, for any length of time, any single topic. Munro seemed
heavy with gloomy thoughts; and the sky, now becoming lightened with the glories of the ascending
moon, seemed to have no manner of influence over his sullen temperament. Not so with the youth.
He grew elastic and buoyant as they proceeded; and his spirit rose, bright and gentle, as if
in accordance with the pure lights which now disposed themselves, like an atmosphere of silver,
throughout the forest. The thin clouds, floating away from the parent-orb, and no longer obscuring
her progress, became tributaries, and were clothed in their most dazzling draperies--clustering
around her pathway, and contributing not a little to the loveliness of that serene star from
which they received so much. But the contemplations of the youth were not long permitted to
run on in the gladness of his newly-found liberty. On a sudden, the action of his companion
became animated: he drew up his steed for an instant, then applying the rowel, exclaimed in
a deep but suppressed tone--

"We are pursued--ride, now--for your life, Mr. Colleton; it is three miles to the river, and
our horses will serve us well. They are chosen--ply the spur, and follow close after me."

Let us return to the village. The situation of the jailer, Brooks, and of his companions, as
the landlord left them, will be readily remembered by the reader. It was not until the fugitives
were fairly on the road, that the former, who had been pretty well stunned by the severe blow
given him by Munro, recovered from his stupor; and he then laboured under the difficulty of
freeing himself from the bag about his head and shoulders, and his incarceration in the dwelling
of the pedler.

The blow had come nigh to sobering him, and his efforts, accordingly, were not without success.
He looked round in astonishment upon the condition of all things around him, ignorant of the
individual who had wrested from him his charge, besides subjecting his scull to the heavy test
which it had been so little able to resist or he to repel; and, almost ready to believe, from
the equally prostrate condition of the pedler and his brother, that, in reality, the assailant
by which he himself was overthrown was no other than the potent bottle-god of his brother's
familiar worship.

Such certainly would have been his impression but for the sack in which he had been enveloped,
and the absence of his keys. The blow, which he had not ceased to feel, might have been got
by a drunken man in a thousand ways, and was no argument to show the presence of an enemy;
but the sack, and the missing keys--they brought instant conviction, and a rapidly increasing
sobriety, which, as it duly increased his capacity for reflection, was only so much more unpleasant
than his drunkenness.

But no time was to be lost, and the first movement--having essayed, though ineffectually, to
kick his stupid host and snoring brother-in-law into similar consciousness with himself--was
to rush headlong to the jail, where he soon realized all the apprehensions which assailed him
when discovering the loss of his keys. The prisoner was gone, and the riotous search which
he soon commenced about the village collected a crowd whose clamors, not less than his own,
had occasioned the uproar, which concluded the conference between Miss Colleton and Guy Rivers,
as narrated in a previous chapter.

The mob, approaching the residence of Colonel Colleton, as a place which might probably have
been resorted to by the fugitive, brought the noise more imperiously to the ears of Rivers,
and compelled his departure. He sallied forth, and in a little while ascertained the cause
of the disorder. By this time the dwelling of Colonel Colleton had undergone the closest scrutiny.
It was evident to the crowd, that, so far from harboring the youth, they were not conscious
of the escape; but of this Rivers was not so certain. He was satisfied in his own mind that
the stern refusal of Edith to accept his overtures for the rescue, arose only from the belief
that they could do without him. More than ever irritated by this idea, the outlaw was bold
enough, relying upon his disguise, to come forward, and while all was indecisive in the multitude,
to lay plans for a pursuit. He did not scruple to instruct the jailer as to what course should
be taken for the recovery of the fugitive; and by his cool, strong sense and confidence of
expression, he infused new hope into that much-bewildered person. Nobody knew who he was, but
as the village was full of strangers, who had never been seen there before, this fact occasioned
neither surprise nor inquiry.

His advice was taken, and a couple of the Georgia guard, who were on station in the village,
now making their appearance, he suggested the course which they should pursue, and in few words
gave the reasons which induced the choice. Familiar himself with all the various routes of
the surrounding country, he did not doubt that the fugitive, under whatever guidance, for as
yet he knew nothing of Munro's agency in the business, would take the most direct course to
the Indian nation.

All this was done, on his part, with an excited spirit, the result of that malignant mood which
now began to apprehend the chance of being deprived of all its victims. Had this not been the
case--had he not been present--the probability is, that, in the variety of counsel, there would
have been a far greater delay in the pursuit; but such must always be the influence of a strong
and leading mind in a time of trial and popular excitement. Such a mind concentrates and makes
effective the power which otherwise would be wasted in air. His superiority of character was
immediately manifest--his suggestions were adopted without dissent; and, in a few moments the
two troopers, accompanied by the jailer, were in pursuit upon the very road taken by the fugitives.

Rivers, in the meanwhile, though excessively anxious about the result of the pursuit, was yet
too sensible of his own risk to remain much longer in the village. Annoyed not a little by
the apprehended loss of that revenge which he had described as so delicious in contemplation
to his mind, he could not venture to linger where he was, at a time of such general excitement
and activity. With a prudent caution, therefore, more the result of an obvious necessity than
of any accustomed habit of his life, he withdrew himself as soon as possible from the crowd,
at the moment when Pippin--who never lost a good opportunity--had mounted upon a stump in order
to address them. Breaking away just as the lawyer was swelling with some old truism, and perhaps
no truth, about the rights of man and so forth, he mounted his horse, which he had concealed
in the neighborhood, and rode off to the solitude and the shelter of his den.

There was one thing that troubled his mind along with its other troubles, and that was to find
out who were the active parties in the escape of Colleton. In all this time, he had not for
a moment suspected Munro of connection with the affair--he had too much overrated his own influence
with the landlord to permit of a thought in his mind detrimental to his conscious superiority.
He had no clue, the guidance of which might bring him to the trail; for the jailer, conscious
of his own irregularity, was cautious enough in suppressing everything like a detail of the
particular circumstances attending the escape; contenting himself, simply, with representing
himself as having been knocked down by some persons unknown, and rifled of the keys while lying
insensible.

Rivers could only think of the pedler, and yet, such was his habitual contempt for that person,
that he dismissed the thought the moment it came into his mind. Troubled thus in spirit, and
filled with a thousand conflicting notions, he had almost reached the rocks, when he was surprised
to perceive, on a sudden, close at his elbow, the dwarfish figure of our old friend Chub Williams.
Without exhibiting the slightest show of apprehension, the urchin resolutely continued his
course along with the outlaw, unmoved by his presence, and with a degree of cavalier indifference
which he had never ventured to manifest to that dangerous personage before.

"Why, how now, Chub--do you not see me?" was the first inquiry of Rivers.

"Can the owl see?--Chub is an owl--he can't see in the moonlight."

"Well, but, Chub--why do you call yourself an owl? You don't want to see me, boy, do you?"

"Chub wants to see nobody but his mother--there's Miss Lucy now--why don't you let me see her?
she talks jest like Chub's mother."

"Why, you dog, didn't you help to steal her away? Have you forgotten how you pulled away the
stones? I should have you whipped for it, sir--do you know that I can whip--don't the hickories
grow here?"

"Yes, so Chub's mother said--but you can't whip Chub. Chub laughs--he laughs at all your whips.
That for your hickories. Ha! ha! ha! Chub don't mind the hickories--you can't catch Chub, to
whip him with your hickories. Try now, if you can. Try--" and as he spoke he darted along with
a rickety, waddling motion, half earnest in his flight, yet seemingly, partly with the desire
to provoke pursuit. Something irritated with what was so unusual in the habit of the boy, and
what he conceived only so much impertinence, the outlaw turned the horse's head down the hill
after him, but, as he soon perceived, without any chance of overtaking him in so broken a region.
The urchin all the while, as if encouraged by the evident hopelessness of the chase on the
part of the pursuer, screeched out volley after volley of defiance and laughter--breaking out
at intervals into speeches which he thought most like to annoy and irritate.

"Ha, ha, ha! Chub don't mind your hickories--Chub's fingers are long--he will pull away all
the stones of your house, and then you will have to live in the tree-top."

But on a sudden his tune was changed, as Rivers, half-irritated by the pertinacity of the dwarf,
pull out a pistol, and directed it at his head. In a moment, the old influence was predominant,
and in undisguised terror he cried out--

"Now don't--don't, Mr. Guy--don't you shoot Chub--Chub won't laugh again--he won't pull away
the stones--he won't."

The outlaw now laughed himself at the terror which he had inspired, and beckoning the boy near
him, he proceeded, if possible, to persuade him into a feeling of amity. There was a strange
temper in him with reference to this outcast. His deformity--his desolate condition--his deficient
intellect, inspired, in the breast of the fierce man, a feeling of sympathy, which he had not
entertained for the whole world of humanity beside.

Such is the contradictory character of the misled and the erring spirit. Warped to enjoy crime--to
love the deformities of all moral things--to seek after and to surrender itself up to all manner
of perversions, yet now and then, in the long tissue, returning, for some moments, to the original
temper of that first nature not yet utterly departed; and few and feeble though the fibres
be which still bind the heart to her worship, still strong enough at times to remind it of
the true, however it may be insufficient to restrain it in its wanderings after the false.

But the language and effort of the outlaw, though singularly kind, failed to have any of the
desired effect upon the dwarf. With an unhesitating refusal to enter the outlaw's dwelling-place
in the rocks, he bounded away into a hollow of the hills, and in a moment was out of sight
of his companion. Fatigued with his recent exertions, and somewhat more sullen than usual,
Rivers entered the gloomy abode, into which it is not our present design to follow him.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

PURSUIT--DEATH.

The fugitives, meanwhile, pursued their way with the speed of men conscious that life and death
hung upon their progress. There needed no exhortations from his companion to Ralph Colleton.
More than life, with him, depended upon his speed. The shame of such a death as that to which
he had been destined was for ever before his eyes, and with a heart nerved to its utmost by
a reference to the awful alternative of flight, he grew reckless in the audacity with which
he drove his horse forward in defiance of all obstacle and over every impediment. Nor were
the present apprehensions of Munro much less than those of his companion. To be overtaken,
as the participant of the flight of one whose life was forfeit, would necessarily invite such
an examination of himself as must result in the development of his true character, and such
a discovery must only terminate in his conviction and sentence to the same doom. His previously-uttered
presentiment grew more than ever strong with the growing consciousness of his danger; and with
an animation, the fruit of an anxiety little short of absolute fear, he stimulated the progress
of Colleton, while himself driving the rowel ruthlessly into the smoking sides of the animal
he bestrode.

"On, sir--on, Mr. Colleton--this is no moment for graceful attitude. Bend forward--free rein--rashing
spur. We ride for life--for life. They must not take us alive--remember that. Let them shoot--strike,
if they please--but they must put no hands on us as living men. If we must die, why--any death
but a dog's. Are you prepared for such a finish to your ride?"

"I am--but I trust it has not come to that. How much have we yet to the river?"

"Two miles at the least, and a tough road. They gain upon us--do you not hear them--we are
slow--very slow. These horses--on, Syphax, dull devil--on--on!"

And at every incoherent and unconnected syllable, the landlord struck his spurs into his animal,
and incited the youth to do the same.

"There is an old mill upon the branch to our left, where for a few hours we might lie in secret,
but daylight would find us out. Shall we try a birth there, or push on for the river?" inquired
Munro.

"Push on, by all means--let us stop nowhere--we shall be safe if we make the nation," was the
reply.

"Ay, safe enough but that's the rub. If we could stretch a mile or two between us, so as to
cross before they heave in sight, I could take you to a place where the whole United States
would never find us out--but they gain on us--I hear them every moment more and more near.
The sounds are very clear to-night--a sign of rain, perhaps to-morrow. On, sir! Push! The pursuers
must hear us, as we hear them."

"But I hear them not--I hear no sounds but our own--" replied the youth.

"Ah, that's because you have not the ears of an outlaw. There's a necessity for using our ears,
one of the first that we acquire, and I can hear sounds farther, I believe, than any man I
ever met, unless it be Guy Rivers. He has the ears of the devil, when his blood's up. Then
he hears further than I can, though I'm not much behind him even then. Hark! they are now winding
the hill not more than half a mile off, and we hear nothing of them now until they get round--the
hill throws the echo to the rear, as it is more abrupt on that side than on this. At this time,
if they heard us before, they can not hear us. We could now make the old mill with some hope
of their losing our track, as we strike into a blind path to do so. What say you, Master Colleton--shall
we turn aside or go forward?"

"Forward, I say. If we are to suffer, I would suffer on the high road, in full motion, and
not be caught in a crevice like a lurking thief. Better be shot down--far better--I think with
you--than risk recapture."

"Well, it's the right spirit you have, and we may beat them yet! We cease again to hear them.
They are driving through the close grove where the trees hang so much over. God--it is but
a few moments since we went through it ourselves--they gain on us--but the river is not far--speed
on--bend forward, and use the spur--a few minutes more close pushing, and the river is in sight.
Kill the beasts--no matter--but make the river."

"How do we cross?" inquired the youth, hurriedly, though with a confidence something increased
by the manner of his companion.

"Drive in--drive in--there are two fords, each within twenty yards of the other, and the river
is not high. You take the path and ford to the right, as you come in sight of the water, and
I'll keep the left. Your horse swims well--so don't mind the risk; and if there's any difficulty,
leave him, and take to the water yourself. The side I give you is the easiest; though it don't
matter which side I take. I've gone through worse chances than this, and, if we hold on for
a few moments, we are safe. The next turn, and we are on the banks."

"The river--the river," exclaimed the youth, involuntarily, as the broad and quiet stream wound
before his eyes, glittering like a polished mirror in the moonlight.

"Ay, there it is--now to the right--to the right! Look not behind you. Let them shoot--let
them shoot! but lose not an instant to look. Plunge forward and drive in. They are close upon
us, and the flat is on the other side. They can't pursue, unless they do as we, and they have
no such reason for so desperate a course. It is swimming and full of snags! They will stop--they
will not follow. In--in--not a moment is to be lost--" and speaking, as they pursued their
several ways, he to the left, and Ralph Colleton to the right ford, the obedient steeds plunged
forward under the application of the rowel, and were fairly in the bosom of the stream, as
the pursuing party rode headlong up the bank.

Struggling onward, in the very centre of the stream, with the steed, which, to do him all manner
of justice, swam nobly, Ralph Colleton could not resist the temptation to look round upon his
pursuers. Writhing his body in the saddle, therefore, a single glance was sufficient and, in
the full glare of the moonlight unimpeded by any interposing foliage, the prospect before his
eyes was imposing and terrible enough. The pursuers were four in number--the jailer, two of
the Georgia guard, and another person unknown to him.

As Munro had predicted, they did not venture to plunge in as the fugitives had done--they had
no such fearful motive for the risk; and the few moments which they consumed in deliberation
as to what they should do, contributed not a little to the successful experiment of the swimmers.

But the youth at length caught a fearful signal of preparation; his ear noted the sharp click
of the lock, as the rifle was referred to in the final resort; and his ready sense conceived
but of one, and the only mode of evading the danger so immediately at hand. Too conspicuous
in his present situation to hope for escape, short of a miracle, so long as he remained upon
the back of the swimming horse, he relaxed his hold, carefully drew his feet from the stirrups,
resigned his seat, and only a second before the discharge of the rifle, was deeply buried in
the bosom of the Chestatee.

The steed received the bullet in his head, plunged forward madly, to the no small danger of
Ralph, who had now got a little before him, but in a few moments lay supine upon the stream,
and was borne down by its current. The youth, practised in such exercises, pressed forward
under the surface for a sufficient time to enable him to avoid the present glance of the enemy,
and at length, in safety, rounding a jutting point of the shore, which effectually concealed
him from their eyes, he gained the dry land, at the very moment in which Munro, with more success,
was clambering, still mounted, up the steep sides of a neighboring and slippery bank.

Familiar with such scenes, the landlord had duly estimated the doubtful chances of his life
in swimming the river directly in sight of the pursuers. He had, therefore, taken the precaution
to oblique considerably to the left from the direct course, and did not, in consequence, appear
in sight, owing to the sinuous windings of the stream, until he had actually gained the shore.

The youth beheld him at this moment, and shouted aloud his own situation and safety. In a voice
indicative of restored confidence in himself, no less than in his fate, the landlord, by a
similar shout, recognised him, and was bending forward to the spot where he stood, when the
sharp and joint report of three rifles from the opposite banks, attested the discovery of his
person; and, in the same instant, the rider tottered forward in his saddle, his grasp was relaxed
upon the rein, and, without a word, he toppled from his seat, and was borne for a few paces
by his horse, dragged forward by one of his feet, which had not been released from the stirrup.

He fell, at length, and the youth came up with him. He heard the groans of the wounded man,
and, though exposing himself to the same chance, he could not determine upon flight. He might
possibly have saved himself by taking the now freed animal which the, landlord had ridden,
and at once burying himself in the nation. But the noble weakness of pity determined him otherwise;
and, without scruple or fear, he resolutely advanced to the spot whore Munro lay, though full
in the sight of the pursuers, and prepared to render him what assistance he could. One of the
troopers, in the meantime, had swum the river; and, freeing the flat from its chains, had directed
it across the stream for the passage of his companions. It was not long before they had surrounded
the fugitives, and Ralph Colleton was again a prisoner, and once more made conscious of the
dreadful doom from which he had, at one moment, almost conceived himself to have escaped.

Munro had been shockingly wounded. One ball had pierced his thigh, inflicting a severe, though
probably not a fatal wound. Another, and this had been enough, had penetrated directly behind
the eyes, keeping its course so truly across, as to tear and turn the bloody orbs completely
out upon the cheek beneath. The first words of the dying man were--

"Is the moon gone down--lights--bring lights!"

"No, Munro; the moon is still shining without a cloud, and as brightly as if it were day" was
the reply of Ralph.

"Who speaks--speak again, that I may know how to believe him."

"It is I, Munro--I, Ralph Colleton."

"Then it is true--and I am a dead man. It is all over, and he came not to me for nothing. Yet,
can I have no lights--no lights?--Ah!" and the half-reluctant reason grew more terribly conscious
of his situation, as he thrust his fingers into the bleeding sockets from which the fine and
delicate conductor of light had been so suddenly driven. He howled aloud for several moments
in his agony--in the first agony which came with that consciousness--but, recovering, at length,
he spoke with something of calm and coherence.

"Well, Mr. Colleton, what I said was true. I knew it would be so. I had warning enough to prepare,
and I did try, but it's come over soon and nothing is done. I have my wages, and the text spoke
nothing but the truth. I can not stand this pain long--it is too much--and--"

The pause in his speech, from extreme agony, was filled up by a shriek that rung fearfully
amid the silence of such a scene, but it lasted not long. The mind of the landlord was not
enfeebled by his weakness, even at such a moment. He recovered and proceeded:--

"Yes, Mr. Colleton, I am a dead man. I have my wages--but my death is your life! Let me tell
the story--and save you, and save Lucy--and thus--(oh, could I believe it for an instant)--save
myself! But, no matter--we must talk of other things. Is that Brooks--is that Brooks beside me?"

"No, it is I--Colleton."

"I know--I know," impatiently--"who else?"

"Mr. Brooks, the jailer, is here--Ensign Martin and Brincle, of the Georgia guard," was the
reply of the jailer.

"Enough, then, for your safety, Mr. Colleton. They can prove it all, and then remember Lucy--poor
Lucy! You will be in time--save her from Guy Rivers--Guy Rivers--the wretch--not Guy Rivers--no--there's
a secret--there's a secret for you, my men, shall bring you a handsome reward. Stoop--stoop,
you three--where are you?--stoop, and hear what I have to say! It is my dying word!-and I swear
it by all things, all powers, all terrors, that can make an oath solemn with a wretch whose
life is a long crime! Stoop--hear me--heed all--lose not a word--not a word--not a word! Where
are you?"

"We are here, beside you--we hear all that you say. Go on!"

"Guy Rivers is not his name--he is not Guy Rivers--hear now--Guy Rivers is the outlaw for whom
the governor's proclamation gives a high reward--a thousand dollars--the man who murdered Judge
Jessup. Edward Creighton, of Gwinnett courthouse--he is the murderer of Jessup--he is the murderer
of Forrester, for whose death the life of Mr. Colleton here is forfeit! I saw him kill them
both!--I saw more than that, but that is enough to save the innocent man and punish the guilty!
Take down all that I have said. I, too, am guilty! would make amends, but it is almost too
late--the night is very dark, and the earth swings about like a cradle. Ah!--have you taken
down on paper what I said? I will tell you nothing more till all is written--write it down--on-paper--every
word--write that before I say any more!"

They complied with his requisition. One of the troopers, on a sheet of paper furnished by the
jailer, and placed upon the saddle of his horse, standing by in the pale light of the moon,
recorded word after word, with scrupulous exactness, of the dying man's confession. He proceeded
duly to the narration of every particular of all past occurrences, as we ourselves have already
detailed them to the reader, together with many more, unnecessary to our narrative, of which
we had heretofore no cognizance. When this was done, the landlord required it to be read, commenting,
during its perusal, and dwelling, with more circumstantial minuteness, upon many of its parts.

"That will do--that will do! Now swear me, Brooks!--you are in the commission--lift my hand
and swear me, so that nothing be wanting to the truth! What if there is no bible?" he exclaimed,
suddenly, as some one of the individuals present suggested a difficulty on this subject.

"What!--because there is no bible, shall there be no truth? I swear--though I have had no communion
with God--I swear to the truth--by him! Write down my oath--he is present--they say he is always
present! I believe it now--I only wish I had always believed it! I swear by him--he will not
falsify the truth!--write down my oath, while I lift my hand to him! Would it were a prayer--but
I can not pray--I am more used to oaths than prayers, and I can not pray! Is it written--is
it written? Look, Mr. Colleton, look--you know the law. If you are satisfied, I am. Will it do?"

Colleton replied quickly in the affirmative, and the dying man went on:--

"Remember Lucy--the poor Lucy! You will take care of her. Say no harsh words in her ears--but,
why should I ask this of you, whom--Ah!--it goes round--round--round--swimming--swimming. Very
dark--very dark night, and the trees dance--Lucy--"

The voice sunk into a faint whisper whose sounds were unsyllabled--an occasional murmur escaped
them once after, in which the name of his niece was again heard; exhibiting, at the last, the
affection, however latent, which he entertained in reality for the orphan trust of his brother.
In a few moments, and the form stiffened before them in all the rigid sullenness of death.

CHAPTER XL.

WOLF'S NECK--CAPTURE.

The cupidity of his captors had been considerably stimulated by the dying words of Munro. They
were all of them familiar with the atrocious murder which, putting a price upon his head, had
driven Creighton, then a distinguished member of the bar in one of the more civilized portions
of the state, from the pale and consideration of society; and their anxieties were now entirely
addressed to the new object which the recital they had just heard had suggested to them. They
had gathered from the narrative of the dying man some idea of the place in which they would
most probably find the outlaw; and, though without a guide to the spot, and altogether ignorant
of its localities, they determined--without reference to others, who might only subtract from
their own share of the promised reward, without contributing much, if any, aid, which they
might not easily dispense with--at once to attempt his capture. This was the joint understanding
of the whole party, Ralph Colleton excepted.

In substance, the youth was now free. The evidence furnished by Munro only needed the recognition
of the proper authorities to make him so; yet, until this had been effected, he remained in
a sort of understood restraint, but without any actual limitations. Pledging himself that they
should suffer nothing from the indulgence given him, he mounted the horse of Munro, whose body
was cared for, and took his course back to the village; while, following the directions given
them, the guard and jailer pursued their way to the Wolf's Neck in their search after Guy Rivers.

The outlaw had been deserted by nearly all his followers. The note of preparation and pursuit,
sounded by the state authorities, had inspired the depredators with a degree of terror, which
the near approximation of the guard, in strong numbers, to their most secluded places, had
not a little tended to increase; and accordingly, at the period of which we now speak, the
outlaw, deserted by all but one or two of the most daring of his followers--who were, however,
careful enough of themselves to keep in no one place long, and cautiously to avoid their accustomed
haunts--remained in his rock, in a state of gloomy despondency, not usually his characteristic.
Had he been less stubborn, less ready to defy all chances and all persons, it is not improbable
that Rivers would have taken counsel by their flight, and removed himself, for a time at least,
from the scene of danger. But his native obstinacy, and that madness of heart which, as we
are told, seizes first upon him whom God seeks to destroy, determined him, against the judgment
of others, and in part against his own, to remain where he was; probably in the fallacious
hope that the storm would pass over, as on so many previous occasions it had already done,
and leave him again free to his old practices in the same region. A feeling of pride, which
made him unwilling to take a suggestion of fear and flight from the course of others, had some
share in this decision; and, if we add the vague hungering of his heart toward the lovely Edith,
and possibly the influence of other pledges, and the imposing consideration of other duties,
we shall not be greatly at a loss in understanding the injudicious indifference to the threatening
dangers which appears to have distinguished the conduct of the otherwise politic and circumspect
ruffian.

That night, after his return from the village, and the brief dialogue with Chub Williams, as
we have already narrated it he retired to the deepest cell of his den, and, throwing himself
into a seat, covering his face with his hands, he gave himself up to a meditation as true in
its philosophy as it was humiliating throughout in its application to himself. Dillon, his
lieutenant--if such a title may be permitted in such a place, and for such a person--came to
him shortly after his arrival, and in brief terms, with a blunt readiness--which, coming directly
to the point, did not offend the person to whom it was addressed--demanded to know what he
meant to do with himself.

"We can't stay here any longer," said he; "the troops are gathering all round us. The country's
alive with them, and in a few days we shouldn't be able to stir from the hollow of a tree without
popping into the gripe of some of our hunters. In the Wolf's Neck they will surely seek us;
for, though a very fine place for us while the country's thin, yet even its old owners, the
wolves, would fly from it when the horn of the hunter rings through the wood. It won't be very
long before they pierce to the very 'nation,' and then we should have but small chance of a
long grace. Jack Ketch would make mighty small work of our necks, in his hurry to go to dinner."

"And what of all this--what is all this to me?" was the strange and rather phlegmatic response
of the outlaw, who did not seem to take in the full meaning of his officer's speech, and whose
mind, indeed, was at that moment wandering to far other considerations. Dillon seemed not a
little surprised by this reply, and looked inquiringly into the face of the speaker, doubting
for a moment his accustomed sanity. The stern look which his glance encountered directed its
expression elsewhere, and, after a moment's pause, he replied--

"Why, captain, you can't have thought of what I've been saying, or you wouldn't speak as you
do. I think it's a great deal to both you and me, what I've been telling you; and the sooner
you come to think so too, the better. It's only yesterday afternoon that I narrowly missed
being seen at the forks by two of the guard, well mounted, and with rifles. I had but the crook
of the fork in my favor, and the hollow of the creek at the old ford where it's been washed
away. They're all round us, and I don't think we're safe here another day. Indeed, I only come
to see if you wouldn't be off with me, at once, into the 'nation.'"

"You are considerate, but must go alone. I have no apprehensions where I am, and shall not
stir for the present. For yourself, you must determine as you think proper. I have no further
hold on your service. I release you from the oath. Make the best of your way into the 'nation'--ay,
go yet farther; and, hear me, Dillon, go where you are unknown--go where you can enter society;
seek for the fireside, where you can have those who, in the dark hour, will have no wish to
desert you. I have no claim now upon you, and the sooner you 'take the range' the better."

"And why not go along with me, captain? I hate to go alone, and hate to leave you where you
are. I shan't think you out of danger while you stay here, and don't see any reason for you
to do so."

"Perhaps not, Dillon; but there is reason, or I should not stay. We may not go together, even
if I were to fly--our paths lie asunder. They may never more be one. Go you, therefore, and
heed me not; and think of me no more. Make yourself a home in the Mississippi, or on the Red
river, and get yourself a fireside and family of your own. These are the things that will keep
your heart warm within you, cheering you in hours that are dark, like this."

"And why, captain," replied the lieutenant, much affected--"why should you not take the course
which you advise for me? Why not, in the Arkansas, make yourself a home, and with a wife--"

"Silence, sir!--not a word of that! Why come you to chafe me here in my den? Am I to be haunted
for ever with such as you, and with words like these?" and the brow of the outlaw blackened
as he spoke, and his white teeth knit together, fiercely gnashing for an instant, while the
foam worked its way through the occasional aperture between them. The ebullition of passion,
however, lasted not long, and the outlaw himself, a moment after, seemed conscious of its injustice.

"I do you wrong, Dillon; but on this subject I will have no one speak. I can not be the man
you would have me; I have been schooled otherwise. My mother has taught me a different lesson;
her teachings have doomed me, and these enjoyments are now all beyond my hope."

"Your mother?" was the response of Dillon, in unaffected astonishment.

"Ay, man--my mother! Is there anything wonderful in that? She taught me the love of evil with
her milk--she sang it in lullabies over my cradle--she gave it me in the playthings of my boyhood;
her schoolings have made me the morbid, the fierce criminal, the wilful, vexing spirit, from
whose association all the gentler virtues must always desire to fly. If, in the doom which
may finish my life of doom, I have any one person to accuse of all, that person is--my mother!"

"Is this possible? Can it be true? It is strange--very strange!"

"It is not strange; we see it every day--in almost every family. She, did not tell me to lie,
or to swindle, or to stab--no! oh, no! she would have told me that all these things were bad;
but she taught me to perform them all. She roused my passions, and not my principles, into
activity. She provoked the one, and suppressed the other. Did my father reprove my improprieties,
she petted me, and denounced him. She crossed his better purposes, and defeated all his designs,
until, at last, she made my passions too strong for my government, not less than hers; and
left me, knowing the true, yet the victim of the false. Thus it was that, while my intellect,
in its calmer hours, taught me that virtue is the only source of true felicity, my ungovernable
passions set the otherwise sovereign reason at defiance, and trampled it under foot. Yes, in
that last hour of eternal retribution, if called upon to denounce or to accuse, I can point
but to one as the author of all--the weakly-fond, misjudging, misguiding woman who gave me birth!

"Within the last hour I have been thinking over all these things. I have been thinking how
I had been cursed in childhood by one who surely loved me beyond all other things besides.
I can remember how sedulously she encouraged and prompted my infant passions, uncontrolled
by her authority and reason, and since utterly unrestrainable by my own. How she stimulated
me to artifices, and set me the example herself, by frequently deceiving my father, and teaching
me to disobey and deceive him! She told me not to lie; and she lied all day to him, on my account,
and to screen me from his anger. She taught me the catechism, to say on Sunday, while during
the week she schooled me in almost every possible form of ingenuity to violate all its precepts.
She bribed me to do my duty, and hence my duty could only be done under the stimulating promise
of a reward; and, without the reward, I went counter to the duty. She taught me that God was
superior to all, and that he required obedience to certain laws; yet, as she hourly violated
those laws herself in my behalf, I was taught to regard myself as far superior to him! Had
she not done all this, I had not been here and thus: I had been what now I dare not think on.
It is all her work. The greatest enemy my life has ever known has been my mother!"

"This is a horrible thought, captain; yet I can not but think it true."

"It is true! I have analyzed my own history, and the causes of my character and fortunes now,
and I charge it all upon her. From one influence I have traced another, and another, until
I have the sweeping amount of twenty years of crime and sorrow, and a life of hate, and probably
a death of ignominy--all owing to the first ten years of my infant education, where the only
teacher that I knew was the woman who gave me birth!--But this concerns not you. In my calm
mood, Dillon, you have the fruit of my reason: to abide its dictate, I should fly with you;
but I suffer from my mother's teachings even in this. My passions, my pride, my fierce hope--the
creature of a maddening passion--will not let me fly; and I stay, though I stay alone, with
a throat bare for the knife of the butcher, or the halter of the hangman. I will not fly!"

"And I will stay with you. I can dare something, too, captain; and you shall not say, when
the worst comes to the worst, that Tom Dillon was the man to back out. I will not go either,
and, whatever is the chance, you shall not be alone."

Rivers, for a moment, seemed touched by the devotion, of his follower, and was silent for a
brief interval; but suddenly the expression of his eye was changed, and he spoke briefly and
sternly:--

"You shall not stay with me, sir! What! am I so low as this, that I may not be permitted to
be alone when I will? Will my subordinates fly in my face, and presume to disobey my commands?
Go, Dillon--have I not said that you must fly--that I no longer need your services? Why linger,
then, where you are no longer needed? I have that to perform which requires me to be alone,
and I have no further time to spare you. Go--away!"

"Do you really speak in earnest, captain?" inquired the lieutenant, doubtingly, and with a
look of much concern.

"Am I so fond of trifling, that my officer asks me such a question?" was the stern response.

"Then I am your officer still--you will go with me, or I shall remain."

"Neither, Dillon. The time is past for such an arrangement. You are discharged from my service,
and from your oath. The club has no further existence. Go--be a happy, a better man, in another
part of the world. You have some of the weaknesses of your better nature still in you. You
had no mother to change them into scorn, and strife, and bitterness. Go--you may be a better
man, and have something, therefore, for which to live. I have not--my heart can know no change.
It is no longer under the guidance of reason. It is quite ungovernable now. There was a time
when--but why prate of this?--it is too late to think of, and only maddens me the more. Besides,
it makes not anything with you, and would detain you without a purpose. Linger no longer, Dillon--speed
to the west, and, at some future day, perhaps you shall see me when you least expect, and perhaps
least desire it."

The manner of the outlaw was firm and commanding, and Dillon no longer had any reason to doubt
his desires, and no motive to disobey his wishes. The parting was brief, though the subordinate
was truly affected. He would have lingered still, but Rivers waved him off with a farewell,
whose emphasis was effectual, and, in a few moments, the latter sat once more alone.

His mood was that of one disappointed in all things, and, consequently, displeased and discontented
with all things--querulously so. In addition to this temper, which was common to him, his spirit,
at this time, labored under a heavy feeling of despondency, and its gloomy sullenness was perhaps
something lighter to himself while Dillon remained with him. We have seen the manner in which
he had hurried that personage off. He had scarcely been gone, however, when the inconsistent
and variable temper of the outlaw found utterance in the following soliloquy:--

"Ay, thus it is--they all desert me; and this is human feeling. They all fly the darkness,
and this is human courage. They love themselves only, or you only while you need no love; and
this is human sympathy. I need all of these, yet I get none; and when I most need, and most
desire, and most seek to obtain, I am the least provided. These are the fruits which I have
sown, however; should I shrink to gather them?

"Yet, there is one--but one of all--whom no reproach of mine could drive away, or make indifferent
to my fate. But I will see her no more. Strange madness! The creature, who, of all the world,
most loves me, and is most deserving of my love, I banish from my soul as from my sight. And
this is another fruit of my education--another curse that came with a mother--this wilful love
of the perilous and the passionate--this scorn of the gentle and the soft--this fondness for
the fierce contradiction--this indifference to the thing easily won--this thirst after the
forbidden. Poor Ellen--so gentle, so resigned, and so fond of her destroyer; but I will not
see her again. I must not; she must not stand in the way of my anxiety to conquer that pride
which had ventured to hate or to despise me. I shall see Munro, and he shall lose no time in
this matter. Yet, what can he be after--he should have been here before this; it now wants
but little to the morning, and--ah! I have not slept. Shall I ever sleep again!"

Thus, striding to and fro in his apartment, the outlaw soliloquized at intervals. Throwing
himself at length upon a rude couch that stood in the corner, he had disposed himself as it
were for slumber, when the noise, as of a falling rock, attracted his attention, and without
pausing, he cautiously took his way to the entrance, with a view to ascertain the cause. He
was not easily surprised, and the knowledge of surrounding danger made him doubly observant,
and more than ever watchful.

Let us now return to the party which had pursued the fugitives, and which, after the death
of the landlord, had, as we have already narrated, adopting the design suggested by his dying
words, immediately set forth in search of the notorious outlaw, eager for the reward put upon
his head. Having already some general idea of the whereabouts of the fugitive, and the directions
given by Munro having been of the most specific character, they found little difficulty, after
a moderate ride of some four or five miles, in striking upon the path directly leading to the
Wolf's Neck.

At this time, fortunately for their object, they were encountered suddenly by--our old acquaintance,
Chub Williams, whom, but little before, we have seen separating from the individual in whose
pursuit they were now engaged. The deformed quietly rode along with the party, but without
seeming to recognise their existence--singing all the while a strange woodland melody of the
time and region--probably the production of some village wit:--

   "Her frock it was a yaller,
      And she was mighty sprigh
    And she bounced at many a feller
      Who came a-fighting shy.

   "Her eye was like a sarpent's eye.
      Her cheek was like a flower,
    But her tongue was like a pedler's clock,
      'Twas a-striking every hour.

   "And wasn't she the gal for me,
      And wasn't she, I pray, sir,
    And I'll be drot, if you say not,
      We'll fight this very day, sir.
      We'll fight this very day, sir."

Having delivered himself of this choice morsel of song, the half-witted fellow conceitedly
challenged the attention of the group whom he had not hitherto been disposed to see.

"'Spose you reckon I don't see you, riding 'longside of me, and saying nothing, but listening
to my song. I'm singing for my own self, and you oughtn't to listen--I didn't ax you, and I'd
like to know what you're doing so nigh Chub's house."

"Why, where's your house, Chub?" asked one of the party.

"You ain't looking for it, is you? 'cause you can't think to find it a-looking down. I lives
in the tree-top when weather's good like to-night, and when it ain't, I go into the hollow.
I've a better house than Guy Rivers--he don't take the tree at all, no how."

"And where is his house, Chub?" was the common inquiry of all the party. The dwarf looked at
them for a few moments without speech, then with a whisper and a gesture significant of caution,
replied--

"If you're looking for Guy, 'tain't so easy to find him if he don't want to be found, and you
must speak softly if you hunt him, whether or no. He's a dark man, that Guy Rivers--mother
always said so--and he lives a long way under the ground."

"And can't you show us where, Chub? We will give you money for your service."

"Hain't you got 'tatoes? Chub's hungry--hain't eat nothing to-night. Guy Rivers has plenty
to eat, but he cursed Chub's mother."

"Well, show us where he is, and we'll give you plenty to eat. Plenty of potatoes and corn,"
was the promise of the party.

"And build up Chub's house that the fire burnt? Chub lives in the tree now. Guy Rivers' man
burnt Chub's house, 'cause he said Chub was sassy."

"Yes, my boy, we'll build up your house, and give you a plenty to go upon for a year. You shall
have potatoes enough for your lifetime, if you will show us how to come upon Guy Rivers to-night.
He is a bad fellow, as you say; and we won't let him trouble you any more, if you'll only show
us where he is to be found."

"Well--I reckon I can," was the response, uttered in a confidential whisper, and much more
readily given than was the wont of the speaker. "Chub and Guy talked together to-night, and
Guy wanted Chub to go with him into his house in Wolf's Neck. But Chub don't love the wolf,
and he don't love the Wolf's Neck, now that Miss Lucy's gone away from it. It's a mighty dark
place, the Wolf's Neck, and Chub's afear'd in the dark places, where the moon and stars won't
shine down."

"But you needn't be afraid now, little Chub. You're a good little fellow, and we'll keep with
you and follow close, and there shall be no danger to you. We'll fight Guy Rivers for you,
so that he can't hurt you any more."

"You'll fight Guy! You! Guy kin fight to kill!"

"Yes, but we'll kill him; only you show us where he is, so that we can catch him and tie him,
and he'll never trouble Chub any more."

"What! you'll tie Guy? How I'd like to see anybody tie Guy! You kain't tie Guy. He'd break
through the ropes, he would, if he on'y stretched out his arms."

"You'll see! only show us how to find him, and we'll tie him, and we'll build you a new house,
and you shall have more potatoes and corn than you can shake a stick at, and we'll give you
a great jug of whiskey into the bargain."

"Now will you! And a jug of whiskey too, and build a new house for Chub's mother--and the corn,
and the 'tatoes."

"All! you shall have all we promise."

"Come! come! saftly! put your feet down saftly, for Guy's got great white owls that watch for
him, and they hoot from the old tree when the horses are coming. Saftly! saftly!"

There is an idiocy that does not lack the vulgar faculty of mere shrewdness--that can calculate
selfishly, and plan coolly--in short, can show itself cunning, whenever it has a motive. Find
the motive for the insane and the idiotic, always, if you would see them exercise the full
extent of their little remaining wits.

Chub Williams had a sagacity of this sort. His selfishness was appealed to, and all his faculties
were on the alert. He gave directions for the progress of the party--after his own manner,
it is true--but with sufficient promptness and intelligence to satisfy them that they might
rely upon him. Having reached a certain lonely spot among the hills, contiguous to the crag,
or series of crags, called the Wolf's Neck, Chub made the party all dismount, and hide their
horses in a thicket into which they found it no easy matter to penetrate. This done, he led
them out again, cautiously moving along under cover, but near the margin of the road. He stept
as lightly himself as a squirrel, taking care, before throwing his weight upon his foot, to
feel that there was no rotting branch or bough beneath, the breaking of which might occasion noise.

"Saftly! saftly!" he would say in a whisper, turning back to the party, when he found them
treading hurriedly and heavily upon the brush. Sometimes, again, he ran ahead of all of them,
and for a few moments would be lost to sight; but he usually returned, as quickly and quietly
as he went, and would either lead them forward on the same route with confidence, or alter
it according to his discoveries. He was literally feeling his way; the instincts and experience
of the practised scout finding no sort of obstacle in the deficiency of his reasoning powers.

His processes did not argue any doubts of his course; only a choice of direction--such as would
promise more ease and equal security. Some of his changes of movement, he tried to explain,
in his own fashion, when he came back to guide them on other paths.

"Saftly back--saftly now, this way. Guy's in his dark house in the rock, but there's a many
rooms, and 't mout be, we're a walking jest now, over his head. Then he mout hear, you see,
and Guy's got ears like the great owl. He kin hear mighty far in the night, and see too; and
you mustn't step into his holes. There's heap of holes in Guy's dark house. Saftly, now--and
here away."

Briefly, the rocky avenues were numerous in the Wolf's Neck, and some of them ran near the
surface. There were sinks upon the surface also, covered with brush and clay, into which the
unthinking wayfarer might stumble, perhaps into the very cavern where the outlaw at that moment
housed himself. The group around the idiot did not fail to comprehend the reasons for all his
caution. They confided to his skill implicitly; having, of themselves, but small knowledge
of the wild precincts into which they desired to penetrate.

Having, at length, brought them to points and places, which afforded them the command of the
avenues to the rock, the next object of their guide was to ascertain where the outlaw was at
that moment secreted. It was highly important to know where to enter--where to look--and not
waste time in fruitless search of places in which a single man might have a dozen blind seekers
at his mercy. The cunning of the idiot conceived this necessity himself.

His policy made each of the party hide himself out of sight, though in a position whence each
might see.

All arranged as he desired, the urchin armed himself with a rock, not quite as large as his
own head, but making a most respectable approach to it. This, with the aid of coat and kerchief
he secured upon his back, between his shoulders; and thus laden, he yet, with the agility of
the opossum, her young ones in her pouch, climbed up a tree which stood a little above that
inner chamber which Guy Rivers had appropriated for himself, and where, on more occasions than
one, our idiot had peeped in upon him. Perched in his tree securely, and shrouded from sight
among its boughs, the urchin disengaged the rock from his shoulders, took it in both his hands,
and carefully selecting its route, he pitched it, with all his might, out from the tree, and
in such a direction, that, after it had fairly struck the earth, it continued a rolling course
down the declivity of the rocks, making a heavy clatter all the way it went.

The ruse answered its purpose. The keen senses of the outlaw caught the sound. His vigilance,
now doubly keen, awakened to its watch. We have seen, in previous pages, the effect that the
rolling stone had upon the musing and vexed spirit of Guy Rivers, after the departure of Dillon.
He came forth, as we have seen, to look about for the cause of alarm; and, as if satisfied
that the disturbance was purely accidental, had retired once more to the recesses of his den.

Here, throwing himself upon his couch, he seemed disposed to sleep. Sleep, indeed! He himself
denied that he ever slept. His followers were all agreed that when he did sleep, it was only
with half his faculties shut up. One eye, they contended, was always open!

Chub Williams, and one of the hunters had seen the figure of the outlaw as he emerged from
the cavern. The former instantly identified him. The other was too remote to distinguish anything
but a slight human outline, which he could only determine to be such, as he beheld its movements.
He was too far to assault, the light was too imperfect to suffer him to shoot with any reasonable
certainty of success, and the half of the reward sought by his pursuers, depended upon the
outlaw being taken alive!

But, there was no disappointment among the hunters. Allowing the outlaw sufficient time to
return to his retreats, Chub Williams slipped down his tree--the rest of the party slowly emerged
from their several places of watch, and drew together for consultation.

In this matter, the idiot could give them little help. He could, and did, describe, in some
particulars, such of the interior as he had been enabled to see on former occasions, but beyond
this he could do nothing; and he was resolute not to hazard himself entering the dominion of
a personage, so fearful as Guy Rivers, in such companionship as would surely compel the wolf
to turn at bay. Alone, his confidence in his own stealth and secresy, would encourage him to
penetrate; but, now!--he only grinned at the suggestion of the hunters saying shrewdly: "No!
thank you! I'll stay out here and keep Chub's company."

Accordingly, he remained without, closely gathered up into a lump, behind a tree, while the
more determined Georgians penetrated with cautious pace into the dark avenue, known in the
earlier days of the settlement as a retreat for the wolves when they infested that portion
of the country, and hence distinguished by the appellation of the Wolf's Neck.

For some time they groped onward in great uncertainty as to their course; but a crevice in
the wall, at one point, gave them a glimmer of the moonlight, which, falling obliquely upon
the sides of the cavern, enabled them to discern the mouth of another gorge diverging from
that in which they were. They entered, and followed this new route, until their farther progress
was arrested by a solid wall which seemed to close them in, hollowly caved from all quarters,
except the one narrow point from which they had entered it.

Here, then, they were at a stand; but, according to Chub's directions, there must be a mode
of ingress to still another chamber from this; and they prepared to seek it in the only possible
way; namely, by feeling along the wall for the opening which their eye had failed to detect.
They had to do this on hands and knees, so low was the rock along the edges of the cavern.

The search was finally successful. One of the party found the wall to give beneath his hands.
There was an aperture, a mere passage-way for wolf or bear, lying low in the wall, and only
closed by a heavy curtain of woollen.

This was an important discovery. The opening led directly into the chamber of the outlaw. How
easily it could be defended, the hunters perceived at a glance. The inmate of the cavern, if
wakeful and courageous, standing above the gorge with a single hatchet, could brain every assailant
on the first appearance of his head. How serious, then, the necessity of being able to know
that the occupant of the chamber slept--that occupant being Guy Rivers. The pursuers well knew
what they might expect at his hands, driven to his last fastness, with the spear of the hunter
at his throat. Did he sleep, then--the man who never slept, according to the notion of his
followers, or with one eye always open!

He did sleep, and never more soundly than now, when safety required that he should be most
on the alert. But there is a limit to the endurance of the most iron natures, and the outlaw
had overpassed his bounds of strength. He was exhausted by trying and prolonged excitements,
and completely broken down by physical efforts which would have destroyed most other men outright.
His subdued demeanor--his melancholy--were all due to this condition of absolute exhaustion.
He slept, not a refreshing sleep, but one in which the excited spirit kept up its exercises,
so as totally to neutralize what nature designed as compensation in his slumbers. His sleep
was the drowse of incapacity, not the wholesome respite of elastic faculties. It was actual
physical imbecility, rather than sleep; and, while the mere animal man, lay incapable, like
a log, the diseased imagination was at work, conjuring up its spectres as wildly and as changingly,
as the wizard of the magic-lanthorn evokes his monsters against the wall.

His limbs writhed while he slept. His tongue was busy in audible speech. He had no secrets,
in that mysterious hour, from night, and silence, and his dreary rocks. His dreams told him
of no other auditors.

The hunter, who had found and raised the curtain that separated his chamber from the gloomy
gorges of the crag, paused, and motioned his comrades back, while he listened. At first there
was nothing but a deep and painful breathing. The outlaw breathed with effort, and the sigh
became a groan, and he writhed upon the bed of moss which formed his usual couch in the cavern.
Had the spectator been able to see, the lamp suspended from a ring in the roof of the cavern,
though burning very dimly, would have shown him the big-beaded drops of sweat that now started
from the brows of the sleeper. But he could hear; and now a word, a name, falls from the outlaw's
lips--it is followed by murmured imprecations. The feverish frame, tortured by the restless
and guilt-goading spirit, writhed as he delivered the curses in broken accents. These, finally,
grew into perfect sentences.

"Dying like a dog, in her sight! Ay, she shall see it! I will hiss in her ears as she gazes--'It
is my work! this is my revenge!' Ha! ha! where her pride then?--her high birth and station?--wealth,
family? Dust, shame, agony, and death!"

Such were the murmured accents of the sleeping man, when they were distinguishable by the hunter,
who, crouching, beneath the curtain, listened to his sleeping speech. But all was not exultation.
The change from the voice of triumph to that of woe was instantaneous; and the curse and the
cry, as of one in mortal agony, pain or terror, followed the exulting speech.

The Georgian, now apprehensive that the outlaw would awaken, crept forward, and, still upon
his hands and knees, was now fairly within the vaulted chamber. He was closely followed by
one of his companions. Hitherto, they had proceeded with great caution, and with a stealth
and silence that were almost perfect. But the third of the party to enter--who was Brooks,
the jailer--more eager, or more unfortunate, less prudent certainly--not sufficiently stooping,
as the other two had done, or rising too soon--contrived to strike with his head the pole which
bore the curtain, and which, morticed in the sides of the cavern, ran completely across the
awkward entrance. A ringing noise was the consequence, while Brooks himself was precipitated
back into the passage, with a smart cut over his brows.

The noise was not great, but quite sufficient to dissipate the slumbers of the outlaw, whose
sleep was never sound. With that decision and fierce courage which marked his character, he
sprang to his feet in an instant, grasped the dirk which he always carried in his bosom, and
leaped forward, like a tiger, in the direction of the narrow entrance. Familiar with all the
sinuosities of his den, as well in daylight as in darkness, the chances might have favored
him even with two powerful enemies within it. Certainly, had there been but one, he could have
dealt with him, and kept out others. But the very precipitation of the jailer, while it occasioned
the alarm, had the effect, in one particular, of neutralizing its evil consequences. The two
who had already penetrated the apartment, had net yet risen from their knees--in the dim light
of the lamp, they remained unseen--they were crouching, indeed, directly under the lamp, the
rays of which lighted dimly the extremes, rather than the centre of the cell. They lay in the
way of the outlaw, as he sprang, and, as he dashed forward from his couch toward the passage-way,
his feet were caught by the Georgian who had first entered, and so great was the impetus of
his first awakening effort, that he was precipitated with a severe fall over the second of
the party; and, half stunned, yet still striking furiously, the dirk of Rivers found a bloodless
sheath in the earthen floor of the cell. In a moment, the two were upon him, and by the mere
weight of their bodies alone, they kept him down.

"Surrender, Guy! we're too much for you, old fellow!"

There was a short struggle. Meanwhile, Brooks, the jailer, joined the party.

"We're three on you, and there's more without."

The outlaw was fixed to the ground, beneath their united weight, as firmly as if the mountain
itself was on him. As soon as he became conscious of the inutility of further struggle--and
he could now move neither hand nor foot--he ceased all further effort; like a wise man economizing
his strength for future occasions. Without difficulty the captors bound him fast, then dragged
him through the narrow entrance, the long rocky gorges which they had traversed, until they
all emerged into the serene light of heaven, at the entrance of the cavern.

Here the idiot boy encountered them, now coming forward boldly, and staring in the face of
the captive with a confidence which he had never known before. He felt that his fangs were
drawn; and his survey of the person his mother had taught him so to dread, was as curious as
that which he would have taken of some foreign monster. As he continued this survey, Rivers,
with a singular degree of calmness for such a time, and such circumstances, addressed him thus:--

"So, Chub, this is your work;--you have brought enemies to my home, boy! Why have you done
this? What have I done to you, but good? I gave bread to your mother and yourself!"

"Psho! Chub is to have his own bread, his own corn, and 'taters, too, and a whole jug of whiskey."

"Ah! you have sold yourself for these, then, to my enemies. You are a bad fellow, Chub--a worse
fellow than I thought you. As an idiot, I fancied you might be honest and grateful."

"You're bad yourself, Mr. Guy. You cursed Chub, and you cursed Chub's mother; and your man
burnt down Chub's house, and you wanted to shoot Chub on the tree."

"But I didn't shoot, Chub; and I kept the men from shooting you when you ran away from the cave."

"You can't shoot now," answered the idiot, with an exulting chuckle; "and they'll keep you
in the ropes, Mr. Guy; they've got you on your back, Mr. Guy; and I'm going to laugh at you
all the way as you go. Ho! ho! ho! See if I don't laugh, till I scares away all your white
owls from the roost."

The outlaw looked steadily in the face of the wretched urchin, with a curious interest, as
he half murmured to himself:--

"And that I should fall a victim to such a thing as this! The only creature, perhaps, whom
I spared or pitied--so wretched, yet so ungrateful. But there is an instinct in it. It is surely
in consequence of a law of nature. He hates in proportion as he fears. Yet he has had nothing
but protection from me, and kindness. Nothing! I spared him, when--but--" as if suddenly recollecting
himself, and speaking aloud and with recovered dignity:--

"I am your prisoner, gentlemen. Do with me as you please."

"Hurrah!" cried the urchin, as he beheld the troopers lifting and securing the outlaw upon
the horse, while one of the party leaped up behind him--one of his hands managing the bridle,
and the other grasping firmly the rope which secured the captive; "hurrah! Guy's in the rope!
Guy's in the rope!"

Thus cried the urchin, following close behind the party, upon his mountain-tacky. That cry,
from such a quarter, more sensibly than anything besides, mocked the outlaw with the fullest
sense of his present impotence. With a bitter feeling of humiliation, his head dropped upon
his breast, and he seemed to lose all regard to his progress. Daylight found him safely locked
up in the jail of Chestatee, the occupant of the very cell from which Colleton had escaped.

But no such prospect of escape was before him. He could command none of the sympathies that
had worked for his rival. He had no friends left. Munro was slain, Dillon gone, and even the
miserable idiot had turned his fangs upon the hand that fed him. Warned, too, by the easy escape
of Colleton, Brooks attended no more whiskey-parties, nor took his brother-in-law Tongs again
into his friendly counsels. More--he doubly ironed his prisoner, whose wiles and resources
he had more reason to fear than those which his former captive could command. To cut off more
fully every hope which the outlaw might entertain of escape from his bonds and durance, a detachment
of the Georgia guard, marching into the village that very day, was put in requisition, by the
orders of the judge, for the better security of the prisoner, and of public order.

CHAPTER XLI.

QUIET PASSAGES AND NEW RELATIONS.

We have already reported the return of Lucy Munro to the village-inn of Chestatee. Here, to
her own and the surprise of all other parties, her aunt was quietly reinstated in her old authority--a
more perfect one now--as housekeeper of that ample mansion. The reasons which determined her
liege upon her restoration to the household have been already reported to the reader. His prescience
as to his own approaching fate was perhaps not the least urgent among them. He fortunately
left her in possession, and we know how the law estimates this advantage. Of her trials and
sorrows, when she was made aware of her widowhood, we will say nothing. Sensitive natures will
easily conjecture their extent and intensity. It is enough for the relief of such natures,
if we say that the widow Munro was not wholly inconsolable. As a good economist, a sensible
woman, with an eye properly regardful of the future, we are bound to suppose that she needed
no lessons from Hamlet's mother to make the cold baked funeral-meats answer a double purpose.

But what of her niece? We are required to be something more full and explicit in speaking to
her case. The indisposition of Lucy was not materially diminished by the circumstances following
the successful effort to persuade the landlord to the rescue of Ralph Colleton. The feverish
excitements natural to that event, and even the fruit of its fortunate issue, in the death
of Munro, for whom she really had a grateful regard, were not greatly lessened, though certainly
something relieved, by the capture of Rivers, and his identification with the outlawed Creighton.
She was now secure from him: she had nothing further to apprehend from the prosecution of his
fearful suit; and the death of her uncle, even if the situation of Rivers had left him free
to urge it further, would, of itself, have relieved her from the only difficulty in the way
of a resolute denial.

So far, then, she was at peace. But a silent sorrow had made its way into her bosom, gnawing
there with the noiselessness and certainty of the imperceptible worm, generated by the sunlight,
in the richness of the fresh leaf, and wound up within its folds. She had no word of sorrow
in her speech--she had no tear of sorrow in her eye--but there was a vacant sadness in the
vague and wan expression of her face, that needed neither tears nor words for its perfect development.
She was the victim of a passion which--as hers was a warm and impatient spirit--was doubly
dangerous; and the greater pang of that passion came with the consciousness, which now she
could no longer doubt, that it was entirely unrequited. She had beheld the return of Ralph
Colleton; she had heard from other lips than his of his release, and of the atoning particulars
of her uncle's death, in which he furnished all that was necessary in the way of testimony
to the youth's enlargement and security; and though she rejoiced, fervently and deeply, at
the knowledge that so much had been done for him, and so much by herself, she yet found no
relief from the deep sadness of soul which necessarily came with her hopelessness. Busy tongues
dwelt upon the loveliness of the Carolina maiden who had sought him in his prison--of her commanding
stature, her elegance of form, her dignity of manner and expression, coupled with the warmth
of a devoted love and a passionate admiration of the youth who had also so undesiringly made
the conquest of her own heart. She heard all this in silence, but not without thought. She
thought of nothing besides. The forms and images of the two happy lovers were before her eyes
at all moments; and her active fancy pictured their mutual loves in colors so rich and warm,
that, in utter despondency at last, she would throw herself listlessly upon her couch, with
sometimes an unholy hope that she might never again rise from it.

But she was not forgotten. The youth she had so much served, and so truly saved, was neither
thoughtless nor ungrateful. Having just satisfied those most near and dear to him of his safety,
and of the impunity which, after a few brief forms of law, the dying confession of the landlord
would give him and having taken, in the warm embrace of a true love, the form of the no-longer-withheld
Edith to his arms, he felt that his next duty was to her for whom his sense of gratitude soon
discovered that every form of acknowledgment must necessarily prove weak.

At an early hour, therefore--these several duties having been done--Ralph made his appearance
at the village-inn, and the summons of the youth soon brought Lucy from her chamber.

She came freely and without hesitation, though her heart was tremulous with doubt and sorrow.
She had nothing now to learn of her utter hopelessness, and her strength was gathered from
her despair. Ralph was shocked at the surprising ravages which a few days of indisposition
had made upon that fine and delicate richness of complexion and expression which had marked
her countenance before. He had no notion that she was unhappy beyond the cure of time. On the
contrary, with a modesty almost akin to dullness--having had no idea of his own influence over
the maiden--he was disposed to regard the recent events--the death of Munro and the capture
of Rivers--as they relieved her from a persecution which had been cruelly distressing, rather
calculated to produce a degree of relief, to which she had not for a long time been accustomed;
and which, though mingled up with events that prevented it from being considered matter for
rejoicing, was yet not a matter for one in her situation very greatly to deplore.

Her appearance, however, only made him more assiduously gentle and affectionate in the duties
he had undertaken to perform. He approached her with the freedom of one warranted by circumstances
in recognising in her person a relation next to the sweetest and the dearest in life. With
the familiar regard of a brother, he took her hand, and, placing her beside him on the rude
sofa of the humble parlor, he proceeded to those little inquiries after her health, and of
those about her, which usually form the opening topics of all conversation. He proceeded then
to remind her of that trying night, when, in defiance of female fears, and laudably regardless
of those staid checks and restraints by which her sex would conceal or defend its weaknesses,
she had dared to save his life.

His manner, generally warm and eager, dilated something beyond its wont; and if ever gratitude
had yet its expression from human lips and in human language, it was poured forth at that moment
from his into the ears of Lucy Munro.

And she felt its truth; she relied upon the uttered words of the speaker; and her eyes grew
bright with a momentary kindling, her check flushed under his glance, while her heart, losing
something of the chillness which had so recently oppressed it, felt lighter and less desolate
in that abode of sadness and sweetness, the bosom in which it dwelt.

Yet, after all, when thought came again under the old aspect--when she remembered his situation
and her own, she felt the shadow once more come over her with an icy influence. It was not
gratitude which her heart craved from that of Ralph Colleton. The praise and the approval and
the thanks of others might have given her pleasure, but these were not enough from him; and
she sighed that he from whom alone love would be precious, had nothing less frigid than gratitude
to offer. But even that was much, and she felt it deeply. His approbation was not a little
to a spirit whose reference to him was perpetual; and when--her hand in his--he recounted the
adventures of that night--when he dwelt upon her courage--upon her noble disregard of opinions
which might have chilled in many of her sex the fine natural currents of that godlike humanity
which conventional forms, it is well to think, can not always fetter or abridge--when he expatiated
upon all these things with all the fervor of his temperament--she with a due modesty, shrinking
from the recital of her own performances--she felt every moment additional pleasure in his
speech of praise. When, at length, relating the particulars of the escape and death of Munro,
he proceeded, with all the tender caution of a brother, softening the sorrow into sadness,
and plucking from grief as much of the sting as would else have caused the wound to rankle,
she felt that though another might sway his heart and its richer affections, she was not altogether
destitute of its consideration and its care.

"And now, Lucy--my sweet sister--for my sister you are now--you will accede to your uncle's
prayer and mine--you will permit me to be your brother, and to provide for you as such. In
this wild region it fits not that you should longer abide. This wilderness is uncongenial--it
is foreign to a nature like yours. You have been too long its tenant--mingling with creatures
not made for your association, none of whom are capable of appreciating your worth. You must
come with us, and live with my uncle--with my cousin Edith--"

"Edith!"--and she looked inquiringly, while a slight flush of the cheek and kindling of the
eye in him followed the utterance of the single word by her, and accompanied his reply.

"Yes, Edith--Edith Colleton, Lucy, is the name of my cousin, and the relationship will soon
be something closer between us. You will love her, and she, I know, will love you as a sister,
and as the preserver of one so very humble as myself. It was a night of danger when you first
heard her name, and saw her features; and when you and she will converse over that night and
its events, I feel satisfied that it will bring you both only the closer to one another."

"We will not talk of it farther, Mr. Colleton--I would not willingly hear of it again. It is
enough that you are now free from all such danger--enough that all things promise well for
the future. Let not any thought of past evil, or of risk successfully encountered, obscure
the prospect--let no thought of me produce an emotion, hostile, even for a moment, to your peace."

"And why should you think, my sweet girl, and with an air of such profound sorrow, that such
a thought must be productive of such an emotion. Why should the circumstances so happily terminating,
though perilous at first, necessarily bring sorrow with remembrance. Surely you are now but
exhibiting the sometimes coy perversity which is ascribed to your sex. You are now, in a moment
of calm, but assuming those winning playfulnesses of a sex, conscious of charm and power, which,
in a time of danger, your more masculine thought had rejected as unbecoming. You forget, Lucy,
that I have you in charge--that you are now my sister--that my promise to your departed uncle,
not less than my own desire to that effect, makes me your guardian for the future--and that
I am now come, hopeful of success, to take you with me to my own country, and to bring you
acquainted with her--(I must keep no secret from you, who are my sister)--who has my heart--who--but
you are sick, Lucy. What means this emotion?"

"Nothing, nothing, Mr. Colleton. A momentary weakness from my late indisposition--it will soon
be over. Indeed, I am already well. Go on, sir--go on!"

"Lucy, why these titles? Why such formality? Speak to me as if I were the new friend, at least,
if you will not behold in me an old one. I have received too much good service from you to
permit of this constraint. Call me Ralph--or Colleton--or--or--nay, look not so coldly--why
not call me your brother?"

"Brother--brother be it then, Ralph Colleton--brother--brother. God knows, I need a brother
now!" and the ice of her manner was thawed quickly by his appeal, in which her accurate sense,
sufficiently unclouded usually by her feelings, though themselves at all times strong, discovered
only the honest earnestness of truth.

"Ah, now, you look--and now you are indeed my sister. Hear me, then, Lucy, and listen to all
my plans. You have not seen Edith--my Edith now--you must be her sister too. She is now, or
will be soon, something nearer to me than a sister--she is something dearer already. We shall
immediately return to Carolina, and you will go along with us."

"It may not be, Ralph--I have determined otherwise. I will be your sister--as truly so as sister
possibly could be--but I can not go with you. I have made other arrangements."

The youth looked up in astonishment. The manner of the maiden was very resolute, and he knew
not what to understand. She proceeded, as she saw his amazement:--

"It may not be as you propose, Mr.--Ralph--my brother--circumstances have decreed another arrangement--another,
and perhaps a less grateful destiny for me."

"But why, Lucy, if a less pleasant, or at least a doubtful arrangement, why yield to it--why
reject my solicitation? What is the plan to which, I am sad to see, you so unhesitatingly give
the preference?"

"Not unhesitatingly--not unhesitatingly, I assure you. I have thought upon it deeply and long,
and the decision is that of my cooler thought and calmer judgment. It may be in a thousand
respects a less grateful arrangement than that which you offer me; but, at least, it will want
one circumstance which would couple itself with your plan, and which would alone prompt me
to deny myself all its other advantages."

"And what is that one circumstance, dear Lucy, which affrights you so much? Let me know. What
peculiarity of mine--what thoughtless impropriety--what association, which I may remove, thus
prevents your acceptance of my offer, and that of Edith? Speak--spare me not in what you shall
say--but let your thoughts have their due language, just as if you were--as indeed you are--my
sister."

"Ask me not, Ralph. I may not utter it. It must not be whispered to myself, though I perpetually
hear it. It is no impropriety--no peculiarity--no wrong thought or deed of yours, that occasions
it. The evil is in me; and hence you can do nothing which can possibly change my determination."

"Strange, strange girl! What mystery is this? Where is now that feeling of confidence, which
led you to comply with my prayer, and consider me as your brother? Why keep this matter from
me--why withhold any particular, the knowledge of which might be productive of a remedy for
all the difficulty."

"Never--never. The knowledge of it would be destructive of all beside. It would be fatal--seek
not, therefore, to know it--it would profit you nothing, and me it would crush for ever to
the earth. Hear me, Ralph--my brother!--hear me. Hitherto you have known me--I am proud to
think--as a strong-minded woman, heedless of all things in her desire for the good--for the
right. In a moment of peril to you or to another, I would be the same woman. But the strength
which supports through the trial, subsides when it is over. The ship that battles with the
storms and the seas, with something like a kindred buoyancy, goes down with the calm that follows
their violence. It is so with me. I could do much--much more than woman generally--in the day
of trial, but I am the weakest of my sex when it is over. Would you have the secret of these
weaknesses in your possession, when you must know that the very consciousness, that it is beyond
my own control, must be fatal to that pride of sex which, perhaps, only sustains me now? Ask
me not further, Ralph, on this subject. I can tell you nothing; I will tell you nothing; and
to press me farther must only be to estrange me the more. It is sufficient that I call you
brother--that I pledge myself to love you as a sister--as sister never loved brother before.
This is as much as I can do, Ralph Colleton--is it not enough?"

The youth tried numberless arguments and entreaties, but in vain to shake her purpose; and
the sorrowful expression of his voice and manner, not less than of his language, sufficiently
assured her of the deep mortification which he felt upon her denial. She soothed his spirit
with a gentleness peculiarly her own, and, as if she had satisfied herself that she had done
enough for the delicacy of her scruples in one leading consideration, she took care that her
whole manner should be that of the most confiding and sisterly regard. She even endeavored
to be cheerful, seeing that her companion, with her unlooked-for denial, had lost all his elasticity;
but without doing much to efface from his countenance the traces of dissatisfaction.

"And what are your plans, Lucy? Let me know them, at least. Let mo see how far they are likely
to be grateful to your character, and to make you happy."

"Happy! happy!" and she uttered but the two words, with a brief interval between them, while
her voice trembled, and the gathering suffusion in her large and thickly-fringed blue eyes
attested, more than anything besides, the prevailing weakness of which she had spoken.

"Ay, happy, Lucy! That is the word. You must not be permitted to choose a lot in life, in which
the chances are not in favor of your happiness."

"I look not for that now, Ralph," was her reply, and with such hopeless despondency visible
in her face as she spoke, that, with a deeper interest, taking her hand, he again urged the
request she had already so recently denied.

"And why not, my sweet sister? Why should you not anticipate happiness as well as the rest
of us? Who has a better right to happiness than the young, the gentle, the beautiful, the good?--and
you are all of these, Lucy! You have the charms--the richer and more lasting charms--which,
in the reflective mind, must always awaken admiration! You have animation, talent, various
and active--sentiment, the growth of truth, propriety, and a lofty aim--no flippancy, no weak
vanity--and a gentle beauty, that woos while it warms."

Her face became very grave, as she drew back from him.

"Nay, my sweet Lucy! why do you repulse me? I speak nothing but the truth."

"You mock me!--I pray you, mock me not. I have suffered much, Mr. Colleton--very much, in the
few last years of my life, from the sneer, and the scorn, and the control of others! But I
have been taught to hope for different treatment, and a far gentler estimate. It is ill in
you to take up the speech of smaller spirits, and when the sufferer is one so weak, so poor,
so very wretched as I am now! I had not looked for such scorn from you!"

Ralph was confounded. Was this caprice? He had never seen any proof of the presence of such
an infirmity in her. And yet, how could he account for those strange words--that manner so
full of offended pride? What had he been saying? How had she misconceived him? He took her
hand earnestly in his own. She would have withdrawn it; but no!--he held it fast, and looked
pleadingly into her face, as he replied:--

"Surely, Lucy, you do me wrong! How could you think that I would design to give you pain? Do
you really estimate me by so low a standard, that my voice, when it speaks in praise and homage,
is held to be the voice of vulgar flattery, and designing falsehood?"

"Oh, no, Ralph! not that--anything but that!"

"That I should sneer at you, Lucy--feel or utter scorn--you, to whom I owe so much! Have I
then been usually so flippant of speech--a trifler--when we have spoken together before?--the
self-assured fopling, with fancied superiority, seeking to impose upon the vain spirit and
the simple confidence? Surely, I have never given you cause to think of me so meanly!"

"No! no! forgive me! I know not what I have said! I meant nothing so unkind--so unjust!"

"Lucy, your esteem is one of my most precious desires. To secure it, I would do much--strive
earnestly--make many sacrifices of self. Certainly, for this object, I should be always truthful."

"You are, Ralph! I believe you."

"When I praised you, I did not mean merely to praise. I sought rather to awaken you to a just
appreciation of your own claims upon a higher order of society than that which you can possibly
find in this frontier region. I have spoken only the simple truth of your charms and accomplishments.
I have felt them, Lucy, and paint them only as they are. Your beauties of mind and person--"

"Oh, do not, I implore you!"

"Yes, I must, Lucy! though of these beauties I should not have spoken--should not now speak--were
it not that I feel sure that your superior understanding would enable you to listen calmly
to a voice, speaking from my heart to yours, and speaking nothing but a truth which it honestly
believes! And it is your own despondency, and humility of soul, that prompts me thus to speak
in your praise. There is no good reason, Lucy, why you should not be happy--why fond hearts
should not be rejoiced to win your sympathies--why fond eyes should not look gladly and gratefully
for the smiles of yours! You carry treasures into society, Lucy, which society will everywhere
value as beyond price!"

"Ah! why will you, sir--why, Ralph?--"

"You must not sacrifice yourself, Lucy. You must not defraud society of its rights. In a more
refined circle, whose chances of happiness will be more likely to command than yours? You must
go with me and Edith--go to Carolina. There you will find the proper homage. You will see the
generous and the noble;--they will seek you--honorable gentlemen, proud of your favor, happy
in your smiles--glad to offer you homes and hearts, such as shall be not unworthy of your own."

The girl heard him, but with no strengthening of self-confidence. The thought which occurred
to her, which spoke of her claims, was that he had not found them so coercive. But, of course,
she did not breathe the sentiment. She only sighed, and shook her head mournfully; replying,
after a brief pause:--

"I must not hear you, Ralph. I thank you, I thank Miss Colleton, for the kindness of this invitation,
but I dare not accept it. I can not go with you to Carolina. My lot is here with my aunt, or
where she goes. I must not desert her. She is now even more destitute than myself."

"Impossible! Why, Lucy, your aunt tells me that she means to continue in this establishment.
How can you reconcile it to yourself to remain here, with the peril of encountering the associations,
such as we have already known them, which seem naturally to belong to such a border region."

"You forget, Ralph, that it was here I met with you," was the sudden reply, with a faint smile
upon her lips.

"Yes; and I was driven here--by a fate, against my will--that we should meet, Lucy. But though
we are both here, now, the region is unseemly to both, and neither need remain an hour longer
than it is agreeable. Why should you remain out of your sphere, and exposed to every sort of
humiliating peril."

"You forget--my aunt."

"Ay, but what security is there that she will not give you another uncle?"

"Oh, fie, Ralph!"

"Ay, she is too feeble of will, too weak, to be independent. She will marry again, Lucy, and
is not the woman to choose wisely. Besides, she is not your natural aunt. She is so by marriage
only. The tie between you is one which gives her no proper claim upon you."

"She has been kind to me, Ralph."

"Yet she would have seen you sacrificed to this outlaw!"

Lucy shuddered. He continued:--

"Her kindness, lacking strength and courage, would leave you still to be sacrificed, whenever
a will, stronger than her own, should choose to assert a power over you. She can do nothing
for you--not even for your security. You must not remain here, Lucy."

"Frankly, then, Ralph, I do not mean to do so long; nor does my aunt mean it. She is feeble,
as you say; and, knowing it, I shall succeed in persuading her to sell out here, and we shall
then remove to a more civilized region, to a better society, where, indeed, if you knew it,
you would find nothing to regret, and see no reason to apprehend either for my securities or
tastes. We shall seek refuge among my kindred--among the relatives of my mother--and I shall
there be as perfectly at home, and quite as happy, as I can be any where."

"And where is it that you go, Lucy?"

"Forgive me, Ralph, but I must not tell you."

"Not tell me!"

"Better that I should not--better, far better! The duties for which the high Providence brought
us together have been, I think, fairly accomplished. I have done my part, and you, Mr. Colleton--Ralph,
I mean--you have done yours. There is nothing more that we may not do apart. Here, then, let
our conference end. It is enough that you have complied with the dying wish of my uncle--that
I have not, is not your fault."

"Not my fault, Lucy, but truly my misfortune. But I give not up my hope so easily. I still
trust that you will think better of your determination, and conclude to go with us. We have
a sweet home, and should not be altogether so happy in it, with the thought of your absence
for ever in our minds."

"What!--not happy, and she with you!"

"Happy!--yes!--but far happier with both of you. You, my sister, and--"

"Say no more--"

"No more now, but I shall try other lips, perhaps more persuasive than mine. Edith shall come--"

His words were suddenly arrested by the energetic speech and action of his companion. She put
her hand on his wrist--grasped it--and exclaimed--

"Let her not come! Bring her not here, Ralph Colleton! I have no wish to see her--will not
see her, I tell you--would not have her see me for the world!"

Ralph was confounded, and recoiled from the fierce, spasmodic energy of the speaker, so very
much at variance with the subdued tone of her previous conversation. He little knew what an
effort was required hitherto, on her part, to maintain that tone, and to speak coolly and quietly
of those fortunes, every thought of which brought only disappointment and agony to her bosom.

She dropped his hand as she concluded, and with eyes still fixed upon him, she half turned
round, as if about to leave the room. But the crisis of her emotions was reached. She sickened
with the effort. Her limbs grew too weak to sustain her; a sudden faintness overspread all
her faculties--her eyes closed--she gasped hysterically, and tottering forward, she sank unconscious
into the arms of Ralph, which were barely stretched out in time to save her from falling to
the floor. He bore her to the sofa, and laid her down silently upon it.

He was struck suddenly with the truth to which he had hitherto shown himself so blind. He would
have been the blindest and most obtuse of mortals, did he now fail to see. That last speech,
that last look, and the fearful paroxysm which followed it, had revealed the poor girl's secret.
Its discovery overwhelmed him, at once with the consciousness of his previous and prolonged
dullness--which was surely mortifying--as with the more painful consciousness of the evil which
he had unwittingly occasioned. But the present situation of the gentle victim called for immediate
attention; and, hastily darting out to another apartment, he summoned Mrs. Munro to the succor
of her niece.

"What is the matter, Mr. Colleton?"

"She faints," answered the other hoarsely, as he hurried the widow into the chamber.

"Bless my soul, what can be the matter!"

The wondering of the hostess was not permitted to consume her time and make her neglectful;
Colleton did not suffer this. He hurried her with the restoratives, and saw them applied, and
waiting only till he could be sure of the recovery of the patient, he hurried away, without
giving the aunt any opportunity to examine him in respect to the cause of Lucy's illness.

Greatly excited, and painfully so, Ralph hastened at once to the lodgings of Edith. She was
luckily alone. She cried out, as he entered--

"Well, Ralph, she will come with us?"

"No!"

"No!--and why not, Ralph! I must go and see her."

"She will not see you, Edith."

"Not see me!"

"No! She positively declines to see you."

"Why, Ralph, that is very strange. What can it mean?"

"Mean, Edith, it means that I am very unfortunate. I have been a blind fool if nothing worse."

"Why, what can you mean, Ralph. What is this new mystery? This is, surely, a place of more
marvels than--"

"Hear me, Edith, my love, and tell me what you think. I am bewildered, mortified, confounded."

He proceeded, as well as he could, to relate what had occurred; to give, not only the words,
but to describe the manner of Lucy--so much of it had been expressed in this way--and he concluded,
with a warm suffusion of his cheeks, to mention the self-flattering conclusion to which he
had come:--

"Now, Edith, you who know me so well, tell me, can you think it possible that I have done,
or said anything which has been calculated to make her suppose that I loved her--that I sought
her. In short, do you think me capable of playing the scoundrel. I feel that I have been blind--something
of a fool, Edith--but, on my soul, I can not recall a moment in which I have said or shown
anything to this poor girl which was unbecoming in the gentleman."

The maiden looked at him curiously. At first there was something like an arch smile playing
upon her lips and in her light lively eyes. But when she noted how real was his anxiety--how
deeply and keenly he felt his own doubt--she felt that the little jest which occurred to her
fancy, would be unseemly and unreasonable. So, she answered promptly, but quietly--

"Pshaw, Ralph, how can you afflict yourself with, any such notions? I have no doubt of the
perfect propriety of your conduct; and I will venture to say that Miss Munro entertains no
reproaches."

"Yet, feeling so grateful to her, Edith--and when I first came here, lonely, wounded and suffering
every way--feeling so much the want of sympathy--I may have shown to her--almost the only being
with whom I could sympathize--I may have shown to her a greater degree of interest, than--"

"My dear Ralph, you are certainly one of the most modest young men of the present generation;
that is, if you do not deceive yourself now, in your conjectures touching the state of Miss
Munro's affections. After all, it may be a sudden illness from exhaustion, excitement, terror--which
you have undertaken to account for by supposing her desperately in love."

"Heaven grant it be so," answered Ralph.

"Well, whether so or not, do not distress yourself. I will answer for it, you are not to blame.
And here, let me whisper a little secret in your ears. However forbidden by all the wise, solemn,
staid regulations of good society, there are young women--very few I grant you--who will, without
the slightest call for it, or provocation, suffer their little hearts to go out of their own
keeping--who will--I am ashamed to confess it--positively suffer themselves to love even where
the case is hopeless--where no encouragement is given to them--where they can have no rights
at all, and where they can only sigh, and mourn, and envy the better fortunes of other people.
I have no doubt that Miss Munro is one of these very unsophisticated persons; and that you
have been all the while, and only the innocent cause of all her troubles. I acquit you of lèse
majesté, Ralph, so put off your doleful faces."

"Don't speak so carelessly of the matter, Edith. We owe this dear girl a heavy debt--I do,
at least."

"And we shall try and pay it, Ralph. But you must leave this matter to me. I will go and see Lucy."

"But she refuses to see you."

"I will not be refused. I will see her, and she shall see me, and I trust we shall succeed
in taking her home with us. It may be, Ralph, that she will feel shy in thinking of you as
a brother, but I will do my best to make her adopt me as a sister."

"My own, my generous Edith--it was ever thus--you are always the noble and the true. Go, then--you
are right--you must go alone. Relieve me from this sorrow if you can. I need not say to you,
persuade her, if in your power; for much I doubt whether her prospects are altogether so good
as she has represented them to me. So fine a creature must not be sacrificed."

Edith lost no time in proceeding to the dwelling and into the chamber of Lucy Munro. She regarded
none of the objections of the old lady, the aunt of her she sought, who would have denied her
entrance. Edith's was a spirit of the firmest mould--tenacious of its purpose, and influenced
by no consideration which would have jostled with the intended good. She approached the sufferer,
who lay half-conscious only on her couch. Lucy could not be mistaken as to the person of her
visiter. The noble features, full of generous beauty and a warm spirit, breathing affection
for all human things, and doubly expanded with benevolent sweetness when gazing down upon one
needing and deserving of so much--all told her that the beloved and the betrothed of Ralph
Colleton was before her. She looked but once; then, sighing deeply, turned her head upon the
pillow, so as to shut out a presence so dangerously beautiful.

But Edith was a woman whose thoughts--having deeply examined the minute structure of her own
heart--could now readily understand that of another which so nearly resembled it. She perceived
the true course for adoption; and, bending gently over the despairing girl, she possessed herself
of one of her hands, while her lips, with the most playful sweetness of manner, were fastened
upon those of the sufferer. The speech of such an action was instantaneous in its effect.

"Oh, why are you here--why did you come?" was the murmured inquiry of the drooping maiden.

"To know you--to love you--to win you to love me, Lucy. I would be worthy of your love, dear
girl, if only to be grateful. I know how worthy you are of all of mine. I have heard all."

"No! no! not all--not all, or you never would be here."

"It is for that very reason that I am here. I have discovered more than Ralph Colleton could
report, and love you all the better, Lucy, as you can feel with me how worthy he is of the
love of both."

A deep sigh escaped the lips of the lovely sufferer, and her face was again averted from the
glance of her visiter. The latter passed her arm under her neck, and, sitting on the bedside,
drew Lucy's head to her bosom.

"Yes, Lucy, the woman has keener instincts than the man, and feels even where he fails to see.
Do not wonder, therefore, that Edith Colleton knows more than her lover ever dreamed of. And
now I come to entreat you to love me for his sake. You shall be my sister, Lucy, and in time
you may come to love me for my own sake. My pleasant labor, Lucy, shall be to win your love--to
force you to love me, whether you will or no. We can not alter things; can not change the courses
of the stars; can not force nature to our purposes in the stubborn heart or the wilful fancy:
and the wise method is to accommodate ourselves to the inevitable, and see if we can not extract
an odor from the breeze no matter whence it blows. Now, I am an only child, Lucy. I have neither
brother nor sister, and want a friend, and need a companion, one whom I can love--"

"You will have--have--your husband."

"Yes, Lucy, and as a husband! But I am not content. I must have you, also, Lucy."

"Oh, no, no! I can not--can not!"

"You must! I can not and will not go without you. Hear me. You have mortified poor Ralph very
much. He swore to your uncle, in his dying moments--an awful moment--that you should be his
sister--that you should enjoy his protection. His own desires--mine--my father's--all concur
to make us resolute that Ralph shall keep his oath! And he must! and you must consent to an
arrangement upon which we have set our hearts."

"To live with him--to see him daily!" murmured the suffering girl.

"Ay, Lucy," answered the other boldly; "and to love him, and honor him, and sympathize with
him in his needs, as a true, devoted woman and sister, so long as he shall prove worthy in
your eyes and mine. I know that I am asking of you, Lucy, what I would ask of no ordinary woman.
If I held you to be an ordinary woman, to whom we simply owe a debt of gratitude, I should
never dream to offer such an argument. But it is because you do love him, that I wish you to
abide with us; your love hallowed by its own fires, and purifying itself, as it will, by the
exercise of your mind upon it."

The cheeks of Lucy flushed suddenly, but she said nothing. Edith stooped to her, and kissed
her fondly; Then she spoke again, so tenderly, so gently, with such judicious pleading--appealing
equally to the exquisite instincts of the loving woman and the thoughtful mind--that the suffering
girl was touched.

But she struggled long. She was unwilling to be won. She was vexed that she was so weak: she
was so weary of all struggle, and she needed sympathy and love so much!

How many various influences had Edith to combat! how many were there working in her favor!
What a conflict was it all in the poor heart of the sorrowful and loving Lucy!

Edith was a skilful physician for the heart--skilful beyond her years.

Love was the great want of Lucy.

Edith soon persuaded her that she knew how to supply it. She was so solicitous, so watchful,
so tender, so--

Suddenly the eyes of Lucy gushed with a volume of tears, and she buried her face in Edith's
bosom; and she wept--how passionately!--the sobbings of an infant succeeding to the more wild
emotions of the soul, and placing her, like a docile and exhausted child, at the entire control
of her companion, even as if she had been a mother.

"Do with me as you will, Edith, my sister."

There was really no argument, there were no reasons given, which could persuade any mind, having
first resolved on the one purpose, to abandon it for the other. How many reasons had Lucy for
being firm in the first resolution she had made!

But the ends of wisdom do not depend upon the reasons which enforce conviction. Nay, conviction
itself, where the heart is concerned, is rarely to be moved by any efforts, however noble,
of the simply reasoning faculty.

Shall we call them arts--the processes by which Edith Colleton had persuaded Lucy Munro to
her purposes? No! it was the sweet nature, the gentle virtues, the loving tenderness, the warm
sympathies, the delicate tact--these, superior to art and reason, were made evident to the
suffering girl, in the long interview in which they were together; and her soul melted under
their influence, and the stubborn will was subdued, and again she murmured lovingly--

"Do with me as you will, my sister."

CHAPTER XLII.

"LAST SCENE OF ALL."

There was no little stir in the village of Chestatee on the morning following that on which
the scene narrated in the preceding chapter had taken place. It so happened that several of
the worthy villagers had determined to remove upon that day; and Colonel Colleton and his family,
consisting of his daughter, Lucy Munro, and his future son-in-law, having now no further reason
for delay, had also chosen it as their day of departure for Carolina. Nor did the already named
constitute the sum total of the cavalcade setting out for that region. Carolina was about to
receive an accession in the person of the sagacious pedler, who, in a previous conversation
with both Colonel Colleton and Ralph, had made arrangements for future and large adventures
in the way of trade--having determined, with the advice and assistance of his newly-acquired
friends, to establish one of those wonders of various combinations, called a country store,
among the good people of Sumter district. Under their direction, and hopeful of the Colleton
patronage and influence, Bunce never troubled himself to dream of unprofitable speculations;
but immediately drawing up letters for his brother and some other of his kinsmen engaged in
the manufacture, in Connecticut, of one kind of notion or other, he detailed his new designs,
and furnished liberal orders for the articles required and deemed necessary for the wants of
the free-handed backwoodsmen of the South. Lest our readers should lack any information on
the subject of these wants, we shall narrate a brief dialogue between the younger Colleton
and our worthy merchant, which took place but a few hours before their departure:--

"Well, Bunce, are you ready? We shall be off now in a couple of hours or so, and you must not
keep us waiting. Pack up at once, man, and make yourself ready."

"I guess you're in a little bit of a small hurry, Master Colleton, 'cause, you see, you've
some reason to be so. You hain't had so easy a spell on it, no how, and I don't wonder as how
you're no little airnest to get off. Well, you won't have to wait for me. I've jest got through
mending my little go-cart--though, to be sure, it don't look, no how, like the thing it was.
The rigilators made awful sad work of the box and body, and, what with patching and piecing,
there's no two eends on it alike."

"Well, you're ready, however, and we shall have no difficulty at the last hour?"

"None to speak on. Jared Bunce aint the chap for burning daylight; and whenever you're ready
to say, 'Go,' he's gone. But, I say, Master Ralph, there's one little matter I'd like to look at."

"What's that? Be quick, now, for I've much to see to."

"Only a minute. Here, you see, is a letter I've jest writ to my brother, Ichabod Bunce, down
to Meriden. He's a 'cute chap, and quite a Yankee, now, I tell you; and as I knows all his
ways, I've got to keep a sharp look-out to see he don't come over me. Ah, Master Ralph, it's
a hard thing to say one's own flesh and blood aint the thing, but the truth's the truth to
be sure, and, though it does hurt in the telling, that's no reason it shouldn't be told."

"Certainly not!"

"Well, as I say, Ichabod Bunce is as close and 'cute in his dealings as any man in all Connecticut,
and that's no little to say, I'm sartin. He's got the trick, if anybody's got it, of knowing
how to make your pocket his, and squaring all things coming in by double multiplication. If
he puts a shilling down, it's sure to stick to another; and if he picks one up, it never comes
by itself--there's always sure to be two on 'em."

"A choice faculty for a tradesman."

"You've said it."

"Just the man for business, I take it."

"Jest so; you're right there, Master Colleton--there's no mistake about that. Well, as I tell'd
you now, though he's my own brother, I have to keep a raal sharp look out over him in all our
dealings. If he says two and two makes four, I sets to calkilate, for when he says so, I'm
sure there's something wrong in the calkilation; and tho' to be sure I do know, when the thing
stands by itself, that two and two does make four; yet, somehow, whenever he says it, I begin
to think it not altogether so sartain. Ah, he's a main hand for trade, and there's no knowing
when he'll come over you."

"But, Bunce, without making morals a party to this question, as you are in copartnership with
your brother, you should rather rejoice that he possesses so happy a faculty; it certainly
should not be a matter of regret with you."

"Why, how--you wouldn't have me to be a mean-spirited fellow, who would live all for money,
and not care how it comes. I can't, sir--'tain't my way, I assure you. I do feel that I wasn't
born to live nowhere except in the South; and so I thought when I wrote Ichabod Bunce my last
letter. I told him every man on his own hook, now--for, you see, I couldn't stand his close-fisted
contrivances no longer. He wanted me to work round the ring like himself, but I was quite too
up-and-down for that, and so I squared off from him soon as I could. We never did agree when
we were together, you see--'cause naterally, being brothers and partners, he couldn't shave
me as he shaved other folks, and so, 'cause he couldn't by nature and partnership come 'cute
over me, he was always grumbling, and for every yard of prints, he'd make out to send two yards
of grunt and growls, and that was too much, you know, even for a pedler to stand; so we cut
loose, and now as the people say on the river--every man paddle his own canoe."

"And you are now alone in the way of trade, and this store which you are about to establish
is entirely on your own account?"

"Guess it is; and so, you see, I must pull with single oar up stream, and shan't quarrel with
no friend that helps me now and then to send the boat ahead."

"Rely upon us, Bunce. You have done too much in my behalf to permit any of our family to forget
your services. We shall do all that we can toward giving you a fair start in the stream, and
it will not be often that you shall require a helping-hand in paddling your canoe."

"I know'd it, Master Colleton. 'Tain't in Carolina, nor in Georgy, nor Virginny, no--nor down
in Alabam, that a man will look long for provisions, and see none come. That's the people for
me. I guess I must ha' been born by nature in the South, though I did see daylight in Connecticut."

"No blarney, Bunce. We know you--what you are and what you are not!--good and bad in fair proportions.
But what paper is that in your hand?"

"Oh, that? That's jest what I was going now to ax you about. That's my bill of particulars,
you see, that I'm going to send on by the post, to Ichabod Bunce. He'll trade with me, now
we're off partnership, and be as civil as a lawyer jest afore court-time. 'Cause, you see,
he'll be trying to come over me, and will throw as much dust in my eyes as he can. But I guess
he don't catch me with mouth ajar. I know his tricks, and he'll find me up to them."

"And what is it you require of me in this matter?"

"Oh, nothing, but jest to look over this list, and tell me how you 'spose the things will suit
your part of the country. You see I must try and larn how to please my customers, that is to
be. Now, you see, here's, in the first place--for they're a great article now in the country,
and turn out well in the way of sale--here's--"

But we need not report the catalogue. Enough, that he proceeded to unfold (dwelling with an
emphatic and precise description of each article in turn) the immense inventory of wares and
merchandises with which he was about to establish. The assortment was various enough. There
were pen-knives, and jack-knives, and clasp-knives, and dirk-knives, horn and wooden combs,
calicoes and clocks, and tin-ware and garden seeds; everything, indeed, without regard to fitness
of association, which it was possible to sell in the region to which he was going.

Ralph heard him through his list with tolerable patience; but when the pedler, having given
it a first reading, proposed a second, with passing comments on the prospects of sale of each
separate article, by way of recapitulation, the youth could stand it no longer. Apologizing
to the tradesman, therefore in good set terms, he hurried away to the completion of those preparations
called for by his approaching departure. Bunce, having no auditor, was compelled to do the
same; accordingly a few hours after, the entire party made its appearance in the court of the
village-inn, where the carriages stood in waiting.

About this time another party left the village, though in a different direction. It consisted
of old Allen, his wife, and daughter Kate. In their company rode the lawyer Pippin, who, hopeless
of elevation in his present whereabouts, was solicitous of a fairer field for the exhibition
of his powers of law and logic than that which he now left had ever afforded him. He made but
a small item in the caravan. His goods and chattels required little compression for the purposes
of carriage, and a small Jersey--a light wagon in free use in that section, contained all his
wardrobe, books, papers, &c.--the heirlooms of a long and carefully economized practice. We
may not follow his fortunes after his removal to the valley of the Mississippi. It does not
belong to the narrative; but, we may surely say to those in whom his appearance may have provoked
some interest, that subsequently he got into fine practice--was notorious for his stump-speeches;
and a random sheet of the "Republican Star and Banner of Independence" which we now have before
us, published in the town of "Modern Ilium," under the head of the "Triumph of Liberty and
Principle," records, in the most glowing language, the elevation of Peter Pippin, Esq., to
the state legislature, by seven votes majority over Colonel Hannibal Hopkins, the military
candidate--Pippin 39, Hopkins 32. Such a fortunate result, if we have rightly estimated the
character of the man, will have easily salved over all the hurts which, in his earlier history,
his self-love may have suffered.

But the hour of departure was at hand, and assisting the fair Edith into the carriage, Ralph
had the satisfaction of placing her beside the sweetly sad, the lovely, but still deeply suffering
girl, to whom he owed so much in the preservation of his life. She was silent when he spoke,
but she looked her replies, and he felt that they were sufficiently expressive. The aunt had
been easily persuaded to go with her niece, and we find her seated accordingly along with Colonel
Colleton in the same carriage with the young ladies. Ralph rode, as his humor prompted, sometimes
on horseback, and sometimes in a light gig--a practice adopted with little difficulty, where
a sufficient number of servants enabled him to transfer the trust of one or the other conveyance
to the liveried outriders. Then came the compact, boxy, buggy, buttoned-up vehicle of our friend
the pedler--a thing for which the unfertile character of our language, as yet, has failed to
provide a fitting name--but which the backwoodsman of the west calls a go-cart; a title which
the proprietor does not always esteem significant of its manifold virtues and accommodations.
With a capacious stomach, it is wisely estimated for all possible purposes; and when opened
with a mysterious but highly becoming solemnity, before the gaping and wondering woodsman,
how "awful fine" do the contents appear to Miss Nancy and the little whiteheads about her.
How grand are its treasures, of tape and toys, cottons and calicoes, yarn and buttons, spotted
silks and hose--knives and thimbles--scissors and needles--wooden clocks, and coffee-mills,
&c.--not to specify a closely-packed and various assortment of tin-ware and japan, from the
tea-kettle and coffee-pot to the drinking mug for the pet boy and the shotted rattle for the
infant. A judicious distribution of the two latter, in the way of presents to the young, and
the worthy pedler drives a fine bargain with the parents in more costly commodities.

The party was now fairly ready, but, just at the moment of departure, who should appear in
sight but our simple friend, Chub Williams. He had never been a frequent visiter to the abodes
of men, and of course all things occasioned wonder. He seemed fallen upon some strange planet,
and was only won to attention by the travellers, on hearing the voice of Lucy Munro calling
to him from the carriage window. He could not be made to understand the meaning of her words
when she told him where she was going, but contented himself with saying he would come for
her, as soon as they built up his house, and she should be his mother. It was for this purpose
he had come to the village, from which, though surprised at all things he saw, he was anxious
to get away. He had been promised, as we remember, the rebuilding of his cabin, by the men
who captured Rivers; together with sundry other little acquisitions, which, as they were associated
with his animal wants, the memory of the urchin did not suffer to escape him. Ralph placed
in his hands a sum of money, trifling in itself, but larger in amount than Chub had ever seen
at any one time before; and telling him it was his own, rejoined the party which had already
driven off. The pedler still lingered, until a bend in the road put his company out of sight;
when, driving up to the idiot, who stood with open mouth wondering at his own wealth, he opened
upon him the preliminaries of trade, with a respectful address, duly proportioned to the increased
finances of the boy.

"I say, now, Chub--seeing you have the raal grit, if it ain't axing too much, what do you think
to do with all that money? I guess you'd like to lay out a little on't in the way of trade;
and as I ain't particular where I sell, why, the sooner I begin, I guess, the better. You ain't
in want of nothing, eh? No knife to cut the saplings, and pare the nails, nor nothing of no
kind? Now I has everything from--"

Bunce threw up the lid of his box, and began to display his wares.

"There's a knife for you, Chub Williams--only two bits. With that knife you could open the
stone walls of any house, even twice as strong as Guy Rivers's. And there's a handkerchief
for your neck, Chub--Guy'll have to wear one of rope, my lad: and look at the suspenders, Chub--fit
for the king; and--"

Where the pedler would have stopped, short of the display and enumeration of all the wares
in his wagon, it is not easy to say, but for an unexpected interruption. One of the outsiders
of the Colleton party, galloped back at this moment, no other indeed, than our former acquaintance,
the blacky, Cæsar, the fellow whose friendship for Ralph was such that he was reluctant to
get him the steed upon which he left his uncle's house in dudgeon. Ralph had sent him back
to see what detained the pedler, and to give him help in case of accident.

Cæsar at once divined the cause of the pedler's delay, as he saw the box opened, and its gaudy
contents displayed before the eyes of the wondering idiot. He was indignant. The negro of the
South has as little reverence for the Yankee pedler as his master, and Cæsar was not slow to
express the indignation which he felt.

"Ki! Misser Bunce, aint you shame for try for draw de money out ob the boy pocket, wha' massa
gee um?"

"Why, Cæsar, he kaint eat the money, old fellow, and he kaint wear it; and he'll have to buy
something with it, whenever he wants to use it."

"But gee um time, Misser Bunce--gee um time! De money aint fair git warm in de young man pocket.
Gee um time! Le' um look 'bout um, and see wha' he want; and ef you wants to be friendly wid
um, gee um somet'ing youse'f--dat knife burn bright in he eye! Gee um dat, and le's be moving!
Maussa da wait! Ef you's a coming for trade in we country, you mus' drop de little bizness--'taint
'spectable in Car'lina."

The pedler was rebuked. He looked first at Cæsar, then at Chub, and finally handed the boy
the knife.

"You're right. There, Chub, there's a knife for you. You're a good little fellow, as well as
you knows how to be."

Chub grinned, took the knife, opened both blades, and nodding his head, made off without a word.

"The etarnal little heathen! Never to say so much as thank ye."

"Nebber mind, Misser Bunce; dat's de 'spectable t'ing wha' you do. Always 'member, ef you wants
to be gempleman's, dat you kaint take no money from nigger and poor buckrah. You kin gib um
wha' you please, but you mustn't 'speck dem to be gibbing you."

"But in the way of trade, Cæsar," said the pedler, putting his horse in motion.

"Der's a time for trade, and a time for gib, and you must do de genteel t'ing, and nebber consider
wha's de 'spense of it, or de profit. De nigger hab he task in de cornfiel', and he hab for
do um; but 'spose maussa wants he nigger to do somet'ing dat aint in he task--dat's to say
in de nigger own time--wha' den? He pays um han'some for it. When you's a trading, trade and
git you pay, but when you's a trabelling with gemplemans and he family, da's no time for trade.
Ef you open you box at dem times, you must jest put in you hand, and take out de t'ing wha'
you hab for gib, and say, 'Yer Cæsar--somet'ing for you, boy!'"

"Hem! that's the how, is it?" said the pedler with a leer that was good-humoredly knowing.
"Well, old fellow, as you've given me quite a lesson how to behave myself, I guess I must show
you that I understand how to prove that I'm thankful--so here, Cæsar, is a cut for you from
one of my best goods."

He accompanied the words with a smart stroke of his whip, a totally unexpected salutation,
over the shoulders, which set the negro off in a canter. Bunce, however, called him back; holding
up a flaming handkerchief of red and orange, as a means of reconciliation. Cæsar was soon pacified,
and the two rode on together in a pleasant companionship, which suffered no interruptions on
the road; Cæsar all the way continuing to give the pedler a proper idea of the processes through
which he might become a respectable person in Carolina.

There are still other parties to our story which it is required that we should dispose of according
to the rules of the novel.

Let us return to the dungeon of the outlaw, where we behold him in a situation as proper to
his deserts as it is new to his experience. Hitherto, he has gone free of all human bonds and
penalties, save that of exile from society, and a life of continued insecurity. He has never
prepared his mind with resignation to endure patiently such a condition. What an intellect
was here allowed to go to waste--what fine talents have been perverted in this man. Endowments
that might have done the country honor, have been made to minister only in its mischiefs.

How sad a subject for contemplation! The wreck of intellect, of genius, of humanity. Fortunate
for mankind, if, under the decree of a saving and blessing Providence, there be no dark void
on earth--when one bright star falls from its sphere, if there is another soon lighted to fill
its place, and to shine more purely than that which has been lost. May we not believe this--nay,
we must, and exult, on behalf of humanity--that, in the eternal progress of change, the nature
which is its aliment no less than its element, restores not less than its destiny removes.
Yet, the knowledge that we lose not, does not materially lessen the pang when we behold the
mighty fall--when we see the great mind, which, as a star, we have almost worshipped, shooting
with headlong precipitance through the immense void from its place of eminence, and defrauding
the eye of all the glorious presence and golden promise which had become associated with its
survey.

The intellect of Guy Rivers had been gigantic--the mistake--a mistake quite too common to society--consisted
in an education limited entirely to the mind, and entirely neglectful of the morale of the
boy. He was taught, like thousands of others; and the standards set up for his moral government,
for his passions, for his emotions, were all false from the first. The capacities of his mind
were good as well as great--but they had been restrained, while the passions had all been brought
into active, and at length ungovernable exercise. How was it possible that reason, thus taught
to be subordinate, could hold the strife long, when passion--fierce passion--the passion of
the querulous infant, and the peevish boy, only to be bribed to its duty by the toy and the
sugarplum--is its uncompromising antagonist?

But let us visit him in his dungeon--the dungeon so lately the abode of his originally destined,
but now happily safe victim. What philosophy is there to support him in his reverse--what consolation
of faith, or of reflection, the natural result of the due performance of human duties? none!
Every thought was self-reproachful. Every feeling was of self-rebuke and mortification. Every
dream was a haunting one of terror, merged for ever in the deep midnight cry of a fateful voice
which bade him despair. "Curse God and die!"

