Moreover, he can help in eliminating the loss to the farmer through attempted sale of ungraded,
miscellaneous products by encouraging standardization and guarantee of quality. This requires
organization; and while it should be the pastor's aim to encourage the formation of agencies
independent of the church to attend to this and to establish contacts between his community
and State and independent organizations that will assist in this work he should not hesitate
so far as his time will permit to organize such standardization work and organization for guaranteeing
products until other agencies can take the work over. His obligation as community leader extends
to the encouragement of every phase of life that makes the country more livable in the way
demanded at the particular stage of development in which he finds the community.

As stated before, his primary task in encouraging production is now that of establishing contacts
with State agencies and encouraging the support of their work. In some sections of the country,
as among the colored people, for example, a country preacher might well be a trained farmer
capable of doing in a local community what a county agent tries to do on a larger scale. But
the State has now progressed in most sections to the point where, if opportunity is offered,
it can assist in this work and relieve the pastor for other duties.

The rural pastor should be a leader in community economic organization. It is accepted now
that economic organizations along cooperative lines should be independent of either educational,
religious, or social groups. After such organizations are well established the pastor has met
in this respect the challenge to the church and to the pastor as community leader.

The church as a whole should have some form of organization whereby it can register its influence
in favor of State legislation making safe the development of the cooperative movement, the
better organization of marketing, the proper control of land ownership, taxation, and other
business relations affecting the farmer. Many of these problems cannot be solved by a minister
working alone in a local community. He can preach honesty, stability, loyalty to community
organization with all the fervor and liberty of a prophet, but so long as the tenant contract
remains an inducement to transient tenant population; so long as class distinctions continue
to become more marked; so long as discontent over high rents, high prices of land, and other
conditions continues, he will not get far toward the establishing of the kingdom of heaven
in agricultural life. These problems must be attacked by the church as a whole as the obligation
of the general church to the minister who is on the firing line of the great world-wide struggle
for the establishment of industrial peace.

One or two concrete illustrations will show the necessity of general church action on these
matters if the rural church is to be saved from conditions now acute in the large centers.
Wage-earners in the large centers who have no assurance of permanence of jobs are not inclined
to give liberally toward providing adequate building and equipment for religious services.
No wage-earner can be expected to give hundreds of dollars out of his income toward building
a church when the next month may find him compelled to move to some distant city. In like manner
it is difficult in large centers to get wage-earners even to maintain a church adequately.
Consequently the church is to-day spending millions of dollars to provide church buildings
for wage-earners in large cities. Yet it does not have any program for bringing about wage
returns, permanency of employment, or interest in business that would make it possible or desirable
for the wage-earner to finance his own church building. Neither does the church have a plan
whereby the industries of a city make any adequate contribution to the housing of religious
institutions for those connected with the industry. Although the wealth of America is centered
in the great cities, the provision for religious service to city people is being made by people
living in small towns and in the open country.

As in the city, so in the open country. It has become necessary for the general church to provide
even pastoral maintenance in certain sections where land is worth three hundred dollars per
acre. The transient tenant has no abiding interest in the community because he expects to move
at the end of the year. This condition is gradually becoming worse; and unless the general
church undertakes the solution of problems affecting the local church but over which the local
church has no control, the future will bring either a decline in religious influence in rural
sections or a continuous burden on national boards that should and would under proper conditions
be cared for by local communities.

That the church can help in improving economic conditions to the advantage of all rural life
has already been abundantly demonstrated. On the Brookhaven District, Mississippi Conference,
Methodist Episcopal Church, the missionary board of that denomination made a contribution of
three hundred dollars toward the support for the summer of a man and woman engaged in organizing
community clubs. Twenty-one clubs were organized, and as a result of their efforts over fifty
thousand pounds of fruit and truck were saved during the period of the war when food conservation
was a necessity. As a result of this contribution, at last reports there were three colored
county agricultural agents employed in counties of that district, all supported by the State,
and no further contribution of missionary funds to continue the work was necessary. For years
Bishop Thirkield, of the New Orleans area of the Methodist Episcopal Church, had been encouraging
keeping of gardens by the pastors and land ownership among colored people. It is impossible
to estimate accurately the results of his broad program, but one district superintendent reported
for his own official boards that while at the opening of the year 25 per cent of his official
board members on the district were in debt, at the close of the year not one of them was in
debt. They had been taught how to save money and to pay their debts, and the members of the
churches were encouraged to follow their example.

On a little charge in southeastern Ohio the pastor began to preach good roads. Before the end
of the first year a township organization had been formed and a vote taken providing for the
macadamizing of every road in the township.

Four years ago the missionary board of the Methodist Episcopal Church made a contribution of
four hundred dollars toward the support of a pastor in a village in New York. He organized
a community club, led in securing a community house, installed moving pictures, and provided
for the recreational life of the community. To-day no contribution is being made by the Board
for this work. Yet the membership of the club has increased from fifty-nine to two hundred
and twenty-five. It has been responsible for the establishment of a national bank which had
one hundred and seventy thousand dollars deposits in the first six months; it paved over five
hundred feet of street; it provided for the consolidation of four rural schools with the village
school. And plans were under way for opening a ferry across the Hudson that had not been run
for thirty years and for the establishment of an important manufacturing plant. Thus a little
stimulation has resulted in economic development that must result in better financial support
of all community activities.

In conclusion it may be said that it is the business of the pastor to concern himself with
all economic problems that affect the welfare of his people. The type of problem will vary
with the community and its stage of development. As rapidly as possible the church should turn
over to private or State agencies the task of economic development. But the church should encourage
in every way every movement that is destined to bring about a higher stage of economic welfare;
and the pastor cannot relinquish his obligations in this respect until he has succeeded in
establishing other agencies that can effectively perform this task. His duty, then, is to encourage
this form of development by educating the people as to its value and by giving it his moral
support.

CHAPTER IV

THE SOCIAL CHALLENGE TO THE CHURCH

The task of the minister is primarily to deal with man, either in his own personal life, his
relations to his Maker, or to his fellow-man. Unlike the farmer, whose interest lies in the
control of animal or plant growth, or the mechanic, who controls and molds the forces and conditions
of inanimate nature, the minister has to do with that most delicate and elusive subject of
all--the human soul. His business is to tune the individual soul instrument so that it will
harmonize with the musical vibrations of the Infinite Will; and to bring about such a relationship
between the different instruments in his little group that all together will produce a heavenly
harmony.

The Christian religion, except when it has degenerated into formal Pharisaism, has been an
ethical religion; and the ethical conduct of the individual has been a criterion of the depth
of his religious experience. Ethics have primarily to do with the relation of man to man, so
that the conclusion is logical that the church is vitally interested in the ethical problems
of humanity and in anything that tends to lower or raise the moral standards of the individual
or the community.

There is no other agency more vitally interested in moral problems than is the church. Business
organizations may be interested, but their efforts have apparently not been to conserve moral
standards, even in business. The school is interested, but its emphasis has been placed more
on mental development without regard to moral implications, or on utilitarian objectives. The
church has been preaching right living, and other objectives have been incidental. Since this
is true the thesis is advanced as the basis for this chapter that it is the business of the
church to provide building, equipment, and leadership for conserving the moral life of the
community. Since the moral welfare of any community finds its expression largely in its social
and recreational activities, such provision involves providing for the social and recreational
interests. This is a function which is not to be encouraged and then turned over to other agencies,
but is to be retained by the church itself as its legitimate service.

In view of the fact that the efforts of various agencies have not been in entire harmony with
this point of view it deserves further consideration. For many years it has been argued that
the schoolhouse should be so built that it could be made the community center for all types
of activities. Without intending to limit the public schools in any laudable endeavor to enrich
rural life it should be noted:

1. That so far as villages and open country schools are concerned it is not believed that the
agitation for the wider use of the school plant has yet resulted in any marked nation-wide
response to such agitation further than to provide room for physical training of upper-class
students.

2. In general, the schoolhouse is so located that it is not suited for community service. It
is usually located on the outskirts of the village, where plenty of ground may be had for outdoor
school games. When people gather for social life and leisure they do not go away from the lights
of the village street but move toward them. The well-lighted poolroom near the village store
will attract more boys than the building on the village edge that must be reached through the
dark. Villagers have their downtown as well as do the great urban centers.

3. The school teachers and principal are busy five days in the week in the classroom. The schools
cannot assume charge of community center activities without danger either of overworking the
teachers or of having to hire special assistance for this service. Many villages cannot afford
to hire special workers for this purpose alone.

4. It has been argued that the school is the democratic institution since it is tax-supported,
and thus every one may go there as a right. To this it may be replied that, as with the church,
only those contribute who have resources from which to contribute. The only difference is that
in the public school the majority decide that all those who are able must contribute to the
support of public institutions, thus it falls short of complete democracy, which must, in the
last analysis, be a purely voluntary association. In the church the only force compelling contribution
is personal desire and public opinion. Thus it is as democratic, if not more so, than the school.

5. On the other hand, a large part of the time of the country minister is available for pastoral
service. The establishment of community service activities under the auspices of the church
bids fair to rescue pastoral calling and service from a routine of personal visitation by giving
it a definite community service objective. Again, in the beginnings in the medium-sized and
larger villages and probably continuously in the smaller places the pastor is the only salaried
servant of the community with free time during the week for the organization and direction
of community service.

6. The church building and parish house can be located conveniently at the center of the village,
thus obviating the objection to the school building for this purpose.

7. True religion is a loyal supporter of everything that is safe in social and recreational
life. It is subject to the control of the community in the same way as the school; excessive
puritanism need not be feared under its auspices more than under the auspices of other agencies.

The usual argument against serious consideration of the church as the center of community life
is that religious agencies are so divided up by dogmatism that it is impossible for any one
religious organization to assume leadership in this respect without incurring the opposition
of other agencies. While this is true in many cases, it should be remembered that dogmatism
does not have the influence in more highly developed communities that it once had. Moreover,
considerable progress has already been made toward intergroup agreements, including the two
great divisions of the Christian Church giving responsibility for community leadership to one
denomination or another. In cases where local adjustments have not been made it may be necessary
to depend on other agencies to conserve the social and recreational life. In these cases the
church loses its rightful heritage.

8. The popular response to projects of building community churches and parish houses in small
communities leads to the belief that the general public accepts as the correct one the principle
that the church should provide these facilities. The Methodist Episcopal denomination alone,
through the aid of its Church Extension Board, aided in 1920 in building or remodeling over
four hundred church and parish houses equipped to provide for all or a part of a community
service program; it is not known how many more made such advances without outside aid. The
question of whether the church or some other agency than either the church or the school should
provide community service facilities may be answered in much the same way. In some States local
communities may levy a tax for the building and maintenance of community buildings. Where this
is possible there seems to be no serious objection to such a course. But a community building
without adequate supervision is likely to become a center of moral deterioration. On the other
hand, such a public building can be located more strategically than can a schoolhouse. The
objection to stock-company-owned community houses is much more serious. These are likely to
become mere pleasure resorts, often of a very questionable nature.

The judgment of the American people seems to be rapidly determining that the safest plan is
to look to the religious agencies for conserving the social and recreational life; and this
judgment is in harmony with the thesis advanced at the opening of this chapter.

If the principle is accepted that it is the business of the church to conserve the social life
of the community, then it is next in order to consider some of the problems of social life
that are a challenge to the church at the present time.

The social organization of this country in its smaller communities as in the larger centers,
such as it is, is the product of undirected uncoordinated efforts of special interest groups.
A general classification of the types of rural organizations may be made, first, into political,
including the incorporated village, towns, townships, counties, and political parties; economic,
including special associations around specific interests such as farm bureaus, stock breeders'
associations, potato-growers' associations, etc., and the increasing number of cooperative
organizations, such as farmers' elevators, fruit-marketing organizations, live-stock, shipping
associations; social, including the Grange, the various types of farmers' clubs for men and
women that perform much the same function as the Grange, and the more or less permanent groupings
for purely recreational purposes, such as dancing parties, card parties, etc.; and the conventional
religious organizations as represented by the denominations and their many subsidiary groups
for special purposes.

