There is a word in German which has no English equivalent; it expresses just the missing ideal
I am speaking of. It is a terrible mouthful, as German words often are--Lebensglückseligkeit--it
is the rapture and blessedness and happiness of living. Carry the idea away with you, and make
it one of your personal ideals, and home ideals, and school ideals, and life ideals, this Lebensglückseligkeit.

You can carry this idea with you into society, and use it to brighten its conventional sociabilities,
and stimulate them into positive enjoyability by more of intelligence and animation.

We had a visit the other day from an American gentleman, Mr. Muybridge, who came to give a
lecture at Clifton College. I believe he also lectured in Bath. He remarked to Mrs. Wilson
in the lecture-room that he was glad to see some ladies present. "I like ladies at my lectures;
they are so intelligent." "Yes," she replied, "but I fear you are attributing to us the qualities
of American ladies; we are not particularly intelligent." "You are joking!" was his reply.
"No," she went on, "we are always told how much more intelligent American ladies are than English."
He paused for some time, and then slowly said, "Well, I'll not deny they are smarter."

Well, this quality that Mr. Muybridge describes as "smartness" is an American equivalent of
Lebensglückseligkeit; it is a sort of intensity of life, of vivacity, of willingness to take
trouble, to interest and be interested, that is a little lacking in our English ideal of young
ladies: and we must be on our guard lest any school ideals of study and bookishness should
actually increase this deficiency. Any one, mistress or girl, who makes good education to be
associated with dulness and boredom and insipidity is again a traitor to the cause of higher
education.

I have run to greater length than I intended, and I will conclude.

It should be the aim of us all, Council, parents, mistresses, and girls, to show that our ideal
of education includes both the training of the intelligence and reason, and the storing the
mind with treasures of beauty and instruments of power for opening new avenues into the storehouse
of knowledge and delight that the world contains; and also the development of the practical
ability, the benevolence and sympathy, the vivacity, the enjoyment of life, the fulness of
activity, bodily and mental, that makes the Lebensglückseligkeit I spoke of, and the superadding,
or rather diffusing through it all, an unobtrusive but deep Christian faith and reverence and
charity.

The Archbishop of Canterbury lately said in his charge that "public schools were infinitely
more conducive to a strong morality than any other institution." He was thinking of boys' schools,
of which he speaks with intimate knowledge; but I believe that, where girls' schools have at
their head one who in the spirit of Dr. Arnold recognizes the responsibility for giving an
unostentatious, unpartisan-like, but all-pervading and intelligent religious tone to the life,
the aims, and the ideal of the school, and where the Council and parents value this influence,
there the influence of girls' High Schools may be more conducive to strong morality and true
religion in England than even that of our great public schools. For the High Schools are training
more and more of the most influential class among the women of England, as the public schools
are training the men, and the influence of women must of necessity be of the first importance;
for it is they who determine the religious training and the atmosphere of the home, and thus
profoundly affect the national character. Let us all alike try to keep before ourselves from
day to day and from year to year these high ideals of education which can nowhere be so well
attained, both by mistresses and girls, as in a High School.

And in particular let me appeal to you, the inhabitants of Bath, to be proud of this school,
to foster it, to assist it in every way, and be assured that in so doing you are conferring
a lasting benefit on your famous city.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 2: An Address delivered at the High School, Bath, and the High School, Clifton, Dec.
1889.]

III.

RELIGION.

RELIGION.[3]

I am not going to preach you a sermon of quite the usual type, but intend rather to offer a
few detached remarks without attempting to weave them into any unity of plan, or to connect
them with any particular text from the Bible. Such unity as these remarks may possess will
result not from design but from the nature of the subject. For I am going to speak about religion.

Now as I write this word I almost fancy I hear the rustle of an audience composing itself to
endure what it foresees must be a dull and uninteresting address. "Religion! he can't make
that interesting." Now, why is this? What is religion, that in the eyes of so many clever and
intelligent and well-educated young people it should be thought dull?

Of this one point I am quite sure, that it is the fault of our misunderstanding and misrepresentation,
in the past and the present, that religion seems dull.

Religion is, in its essence, the opening to the young mind of all the higher regions of thought
and aspiration and imagination and spirituality. When you are quite young you are occupied
of course with the visible things and people round you; each hour brings its amusements, its
occupations and its delights, and reflection scarcely begins. But soon questions of right and
wrong spring up; a world of ideas and imaginations opens before you; you are led by your teachers
and your books into the presence of great thoughts, the inspirations that come from beauty
in all forms, from nature, from art, from literature, and especially from poets; you come under
the influence of friends--fathers, mothers, or other elders--who evidently have springs of
conduct and aspirations you as yet only dimly recognize; and mixed with all these influences
there is that influence on us from childhood upward of our prayers that we have been taught,
our religious services, our Bibles, and most of all the Sacred Figure, dimly seen, but never
long absent from our thoughts, enveloped in a sort of sacred and mysterious halo--the figure
of our Lord Jesus Christ enshrined in our hearts, and that Father in Heaven of Whom He spoke.
All these are among the religious influences; and what is their aim and object? What is it
that we should try and extract from them for ourselves? How should we use them in our turn
to better those who come after us?

Well, I reply, they should all be regarded as the avenues by which our human nature as a whole
ought to rise, and the only avenues by which it can rise, to its rightful and splendid heritage
and its true development. We cannot be all that we might be without straining our efforts in
this direction of aspiration towards God, towards all that is ideal, spiritual and divine.

We are often inert, effortless, and then the religion I have spoken of repels us because it
demands an effort; we are often selfish, and it repels us because it calls us out of self;
we are often absorbed in the small and immediate aims for present enjoyment, interested in
our own small circles, and religion insists that these are not enough. It is for ever calling
us, as all true education calls us, as literature and history call us, to rise higher, to see
more, to widen our sympathies, to enlarge our hearts, to open the doors of feeling and emotion.
Religion therefore may make great demands on us; it may disturb our repose; it may shake us,
and say, look, look; look up, look round; it may be importunate, insistent, omnipresent, but
it is not dull.

There is a sham semblance of religion which you are right in regarding as dull, for it is dull.
When it is unreal and insincere it is deadly dull; when phrases are repeated, parrotwise, by
people who have either never felt or have long lost their power and inspiration, then too it
is deadly dull. When a sharp line, moreover, is made between all the various influences that
elevate us, and place us in presence of the ideal and spiritual world; when the common relations
of life, when art, poetry, criticism, science; when educated and refining intercourse and conversation,
and all that occupies us on our intellectual sides is classed as secular, and the only helps
to religion that are recognized are services and creeds and traditions of our particular church,
then such religion cuts itself off from many of its springs, and from most of its fairest fields,
and is barren, and unprofitable, and dull.

You are not likely to make this error. You are perhaps more likely to make the opposite error,
by a natural reaction from this. Because, when all the world of interest and beauty and human
life is opening before you, you cannot believe that religion is confined to the narrow sphere
of ideas in which it was once thought to consist, and is still sometimes declared to consist,
you may think that you can dispense with that narrow but central sphere of ideas; and there
you are wrong. I am quite sure that there is no inspiring and sustaining force, which shall
make your lives worthy, comparable to the faith which Christ taught the world, that we are
verily the children of God, and sharers of His Divine life, heirs of an eternal life in Christ
towards which we may press, and the appointed path to which lies in the highest duties that
our daily life presents and consecrates. On this inspiring power of faith in Christ I shall
not speak to-day. I mean to speak on one only of the duties which form the path to the higher
life, which you may overlook, and yet which is inherent in religion.

The duty which I shall speak of is the necessity of entering into the life and needs and sympathies
of others; of living not with an eye exclusively on yourself, but with the constant thought
for others. It is the law of our being that admits of no exception. You may hope that the law
of gravitation will be suspended in your case, and leap out of the window; but you will suffer
for your mistake; and you will be equally mistaken and equally maim your life, if you think
that somehow the law of the spiritual world would admit of exception, and that you can win
happiness, goodness, and the full tide of life; become the best that you are capable of being,
while remaining isolated, self-absorbed--by being centripetal, not centrifugal. It cannot be.
Now this is worth saying to you, because you know here at school what a united social life
is. All girls do not know this. You do. There is distinctly here a school life, a school feeling,
a house feeling. No casual visitor to your playing fields and hall can mistake this. And you
know that this enlarges and draws something out of your nature that would never have been suspected
had it not been for school life. But when school life ends, what will become of this discovery
that you have made? Boys, when they leave school and have developed the passionate feeling
of love for their old school,--the strong esprit de corps, the conviction that in brotherhood
and union is their strength and happiness,--contrive to find fresh united activities, and transfer
to new bodies their public spirit and power of co-operation. Their college, their regiment,
their football club, their work with young employés, their parish, their town--something is
found into which they can throw themselves. And again and again I have watched how this has
become a religion, a binding and elevating and educating power in the mind of young men; and
again and again, too, I have noticed how without it men lose interest, lose growth and greatness;
individualism creeps on them, half their nature is stunted. For the individual life is only
half the life; and even that cannot be the rich and full and glorious thing it might be, unless
it is enlarged on all sides, and rests on a wide social sympathy and love.

But how is it for girls when they leave school? It is distinctly harder for you to find lines
of united action. Society tends to individualize young ladies; its ideal for them is elegant
inaction and graceful waiting, to an extent infinitely beyond what it is for young men. You
do not find at your homes ready-made associations to join, or even an obvious possibility of
doing anything for anybody. And so I have witnessed generous and fine school-girl natures dwarfed,
cabined, confined; cheated of the activities which they had learned to desire to exercise,
becoming individualistic, and therefore commonplace; not without inward fury and resistance,
secret remonstrance, but concealing it all under the impassive manner which society demands.

Something is wrong: and your generation is finding this out, and finding out also its cure.
Year by year greater liberty of action is open to educated women; and educated women are themselves
seeing, and others are seeing for them, that they have a part to play in the world which none
others can play; if they do not play it, then work, indispensable to the good of society, and
therefore to their own good, is undone. I say to their own good, for we all want happiness:
but happiness is not won by seeking for it. Make up your minds on this point, that there are
certain things only to be got by not aiming directly at them. Aim, for example, at being influential,
and you become a prig; aim at walking and posing gracefully, and you become an affected and
ludicrous object; aim even at breathing quite regularly, and you fail.

So if you aim at happiness or self-culture or individualistic completeness, the world seems
to combine to frustrate you. People, circumstances, opportunities, temper, everything goes
wrong; and you lay the blame on everything except the one thing that is the cause of it all,
the fact that you yourself are aiming at the wrong thing. But aim at making everything go well
where you are; aim at using this treasure of life that God has given you for helping lame dogs
over stiles, for making schools, households, games, parishes, societies, sick-rooms, girls'
clubs, what not?--run more smoothly; wake every morning with the thought what can I do to-day
to oil the wheels of my little world; and behold people, circumstances, opportunities, temper,
even health, all get into a new adjustment, and all combine to fill your life with interests,
warmth, affection, culture, and growth: you will find it true: good measure, shaken down, heaped
together, and running over, shall men give into your bosoms.

Ah! but what can one do? It is so hard to find out the right thing. Yes; and no possible general
rule can be given. You must fix the ideal in your mind, and be sure that in some way or other
openings will arise. I will not touch life at school; you know more about that than I do, and
perhaps need not that I should speak of public spirit, and generous temper, and the united
life. I will only say that a girl who does not throw herself into school life with the generous
wish to give pleasure and to lift the tone around her, does not get more than a fraction of
the good that a school life like this can give, and does not do her duty. I speak of later
years alone. And in the first instance, and always in the first place, stand the claims of
home. I dare say you remember the young lady who wanted to go and learn nursing in a hospital,
and was asked by the doctor why she desired this. "Father is paralysed," she said, "and mother
is nearly blind, and my sisters are all married, and it is so dull at home; so I thought I
should like nursing." I don't want you to emulate that young person. Grudge no love and care
at home: no one can give such happiness to parents, brothers, sisters, as you can, and to make
people happy is in itself a worthy mission; it is the next best thing to making them good.
And remember also, that there are many years before you: and that though it may seem that years
are spent with nothing effected except that somehow things have gone more smoothly, you yourself
will have been matured, deepened, and consolidated by a life of duty, in a way in which no
self-chosen path of life could have trained you. And if, as is quite possible, some of you
are impatient already for the exercise of your powers in some great work, I will preach patience
to you from another motive. It is this: that you are not yet capable of doing much that is
useful, from want of training and general ability. I remember Miss Octavia Hill once saying
that she could get any quantity of money, and any quantity of enthusiasm, but that her difficulty
was to get trained intelligence, either in men or women. So, a few days ago, Miss Clementina
Black, who is Hon. Secretary of the Women's Trade Association, said to a friend of my own that
she had had many voluntary lady helpers of various degrees of education and culture, and that
she had found without exception that the highly educated students were the most fitted to do
the work well; that they alone were capable of the patience, accuracy, and attention to detail
which were one essential quality to the doing of such work, and that they alone could provide
the other essentials, which can only spring from a cultivated mind--viz., wideness of view,
sense of proportion, and capacity for general interest in other important questions--social,
literary, and intellectual. "It is this cultivation of mind which prevents you from being crushed
under the difficulty and tedium and disappointment which must attend every effort to teach
principles and promote ideal aims among the mass of ignorant, apathetic, uninterested, and
helpless working women, who must themselves in the last resort be the agents in bringing about
a better condition of industry."

You may rest assured that if you set your mind on a career of splendid usefulness for your
fellows (and I hope every one of you here aims at this), then you will need all the training
that the highest and most prolonged education can give you. Become the most perfect creature
you have it in your power to become. If Oxford or Cambridge are open to you, welcome the opportunity,
and use the extra power they will give you. If not, then utilise the years that lie before
you, in perfecting your accomplishments, in self-education; in interesting and informing yourself
on social questions, in enlarging your horizon, while you cheerfully, happily, brilliantly
perform all your home duties.

And during this period of preparation which you all must go through, remember that there are
some things which you can do better in your inexperience and ignorance than any other people.
How is this? Tell me why it would be more comfort, and do more good sometimes to a poor sick
woman to bring her a few primroses or daffodils than to give her any substantial relief. The
reason is the same. The very freshness and innocence of young faces, that sympathise without
having the faintest suspicion of the sin and misery of the world, is more refreshing and helpful
than the stronger sympathy of one who really knows all the evil. You can be primroses and daffodils,
and give glimpses into a purer world of love and gentleness and peace.

And if a prolonged training is impossible to you, it is often possible for you to assist in
some humble capacity some lady who is so engaged in work on a scale which you could not yourself
touch. Be her handmaid and fag and slave, and so gradually train yourself to become capable
of independent action.

But to sum up all I am saying it amounts to this--Where there's a will there's a way, and I
want you to have the will.

Did you ever think for what reason you should have had such a splendid time of it in your lives?
Not two girls in a thousand are getting such an education as you are, such varied studies,
such vigorous public school life, such historic associations. And why? Because you are better
than others? I think not. It is that you play your part in the great social organism our national
life; hundreds are toiling for us, digging, spinning, weaving, mining, building, navigating,
that we may have leisure for the thought, the love, the wisdom that shall lighten and direct
their lives. You cannot dissociate yourselves from the labouring masses, and in particular
from the women and girls of England. They are your sisters; and a blight and a curse rests
on you if you ignore them, and grasp at all the pleasures and sweetness and cultivation of
your life with no thought or toil for them. Their lives are the foundations on which ours rest.
It is horrible in one class to live without this consciousness of a mutual obligation, and
mutual responsibility. All that we get, we get on trust, as trustee for them. I remember that
Thring says somewhere, that "no beggar who creeps through the street living on alms and wasting
them is baser than those who idly squander at school and afterwards the gifts received on trust."

I know that our class education isolates us and separates us from the uneducated and common
people as we call them, makes us perhaps regard them as uninteresting, even repellent. Part
of what we hope from the girls who come from great schools like this is, that they shall have
a larger sympathy, a truer heart. Remember all your life long a saying of Abraham Lincoln's,
when he was President of the United States. Some one remarked in his hearing that he was quite
a common-looking man. "Friend," he replied, gently, "the Lord loves common-looking people best;
that is why He has made so many of them."

You can all make a few friends out of the lower class; you cannot do much; but learn to know
and love a few, and then you will do wider good than you suspect.

But you are beginning to ask--Is all this religion? You expected something else. Let me remind
you of the man who came to Jesus Christ, and asked Him what he should do to obtain eternal
life. And this question, I may explain, means--What shall I do that I may enter on that divine
and higher life now while I live; how can I most fully develop my spiritual nature? And the
answer was--Love God; and love your neighbour as yourself. Go outside yourself in love to all
that is divine and ideal in thought and duty; go outside yourself in love to your neighbour--and
your neighbour is every one with whom you have any relation; and then, and then alone, does
your own nature grow to its highest and best. This is the open secret of true religion.

Eastertide is the teacher of ideals. Its great lesson is--"If ye were raised together with
Christ, seek the things that are above." If by calling yourself a Christian you mean that you
aim at the higher, the spiritual, the divine life, then think of things that are above. [Greek:
Ta anô phroneite], think heaven itself. And heaven lies around us in our daily life--not in
the cloister, in incense-breathing aisle, in devotions that isolate us, and force a sentiment
unreal, morbid, and even false, but in the generous and breathing activities of our life. Religion
glorifies, because it idealizes, that very life we are each called on to lead. Look, therefore,
round in your various lives and homes, and ask yourselves what is the ideal life for me here,
in this position, as school-girl, daughter, sister, friend, mistress, or in any other capacity.
Education ought to enable you to frame an ideal; it ought to give you imagination, and sympathy,
and intelligence, and resource; and religion ought to give you the strong motive, the endurance,
the width of view, the nobleness of purpose, to make your life a light and a blessing wherever
you are.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 3: An Address given to St. Leonard's School, St. Andrews, on Sunday, April 13, 1890.]