"Parents do well to say so, I admit," answered Germain, "but then they would sacrifice all
their youth, the best years of their life, to calculating what will become of them at the age
when a person is no longer good for anything, and when it is a matter of indifference which
way death comes. But I am in no danger of starving in my old age. I am even going to lay by
something, since I live with my wife's parents and spend nothing. And then, you see, I shall
love you so well that I can never grow old. They say that when a man is happy he keeps sound,
and I know well that in love for you, I am younger than Bastien; for he does not love you;
he is too stupid, too much of a child to understand how pretty and how good you are, and how
you were made for people to court. Do not hate me, Marie. I am not a bad man. I made my Catherine
happy, and on her death-bed she swore before God that she had had only happiness of me, and
she asked me to marry again. Her spirit must have spoken to her child to-night. Did you not
hear the words he said? How his little lips quivered as his eyes stared upward, watching something
that we could not see! He was surely looking at his mother, and it was she who made him say
that he wished you to take her place."

"Germain," answered Marie, amazed and yet thoughtful, "you speak frankly, and everything that
you say is true. I am sure that I should do well to love you if it did not displease your parents
too much. But what can I do? My heart does not speak for you. I am very fond of you, but though
your age does not make you ugly, it makes me afraid. It seems as if you were some such relation
to me, as an uncle or a godfather, that I must be respectful toward you, and that there might
be moments when you would treat me like a little girl rather than like your wife and your equal.
And perhaps my friends would make fun of me, and although it would be silly to give heed to
that, I think that I should be a little sad on my wedding-day."

"Those are but childish reasons, Marie; you speak like a child."

"Yes, that is true; I am a child," said she, "and it is on that account I am afraid of too
sensible a man. You must see that I am too young for you, since you just found fault with me
for speaking foolishly. I can't have more sense than my age allows."

"O Heavens! How unlucky I am to be so clumsy and to express so ill what I think!" cried Germain.
"Marie, you don't love me. That is the long and short of it. You find me too simple and too
dull. If you loved me at all, you would not see my faults so clearly. But you do not love me.
That is the whole story."

"That is not my fault," answered she, a little hurt that he was speaking with less tenderness.
"I am doing my best to hear you, but the more I try the less I can get it into my head that
we ought to be husband and wife."

Germain did not answer. His head dropped into his hands, and little Marie could not tell whether
he wept or sulked or was fast asleep. She felt uneasy when she saw him so cast down, and could
not guess what was passing in his mind. But she dared not speak to him more, and as she was
too astonished at what had passed to have any desire to sleep, she waited impatiently for dawn,
tending the fire with care and watching over the child, whose existence Germain appeared to
forget. Yet Germain was not asleep. He did not mope over his lot. He made no plans to encourage
himself, nor schemes to entrap the girl. He suffered; he felt a great weight of grief at his
heart. He wished that he were dead. The world seemed to turn against him, and if he could have
wept at all, his tears would have come in floods. But mingled with his sorrow there was a feeling
of anger against himself, and he felt choked, without the power or the wish to complain.

When morning came, and the sounds of the country brought it to Germain's senses, he lifted
his head from his hands and rose. He saw that little Marie had slept no more than he, but he
knew no words in which to tell her of his anxiety. He was very discouraged. Hiding the gray's
saddle once more in the thicket, he slung his sack over his shoulder and took his son by the hand.

"Now, Marie," said he, "we are going to try to end our journey. Do you wish me to take you
to Ormeaux?"

"Let us leave the woods together," answered she, "and when we know where we are, we shall separate,
and go our different ways."

Germain did not answer. He felt hurt that the girl did not ask him to take her as far as Ormeaux,
and he did not notice that he had asked her in a tone well fitted to provoke a refusal.

After a few hundred steps, they met a wood-cutter, who pointed out the highroad, and told them
that when they had crossed the plain, one must turn to the right, the other to the left, to
gain their different destinations, which were so near together that the houses of Fourche were
in plain sight from the farm of Ormeaux, and vice versa.

When they had thanked him and passed on, the wood-cutter called them back to ask whether they
had not lost a horse.

"Yes," he said, "I found a pretty gray mare in my yard, where perhaps a wolf had driven her
to seek refuge; my dogs barked the whole night long, and at daybreak I saw the mare under my
shed. She is there now. Come along with me, and if you recognize her, you may take her."

When Germain had given a description of the gray, and felt convinced that it was really she,
he started back to find his saddle. Little Marie offered to take his child to Ormeaux, whither
he might go to get him after he had introduced himself at Fourche.

"Who told you that I wish to go to Fourche?" answered Germain, petulantly. "Perhaps I shall
not go."

"But truly, Germain, it is your duty to go there. You will go there," replied the girl.

"You seem very anxious to have me married off, so that you may be quite sure that I shall not
trouble you again?"

"Germain, you must not think of that any more. It is an idea which came to you in the night,
because this unfortunate mishap took away your spirits. But now you must come to your senses.
I promise you to forget everything that you said to me, and not to breathe it to a soul."

"Oh, say what you wish. It is not my custom to deny what I have spoken. What I told you was
true and honest, and I shall not blush for it before anybody."

"Yes, but if your wife were to know that just before you came you were thinking of another
woman, it would prejudice her against you. So take care how you speak now. Don't look at me
before everybody with such a rapt expression. Think of Father Maurice, who relies on your obedience,
and who would be enraged at me if I were to turn you from his will. Good-by, Germain. I take
Petit-Pierre in order to force you to go to Fourche. He is a pledge which I keep on your behalf."

"So you want to go with her?" said the husbandman to his son, seeing that the boy had clasped
Marie's hands and was following her resolutely.

"Yes, father," answered the child, who had heard the conversation and understood after his
own fashion the words spoken so unguardedly before him. "I am going away with my dearest little
Marie. You shall come to find me when you have done marrying, but I wish Marie to be my little
mother."

"You see how much he wishes it," said Germain to the girl. "Listen to me, Petit-Pierre," he
added. "I wish her to be your mother and to stay with you always. It is she who does not wish
to. Try to make her grant you what she has denied me."

"Don't be afraid, father, I shall make her say yes. Little Marie does everything that I wish."

He walked away with the young girl. Germain stood alone, sadder and more irresolute than ever.

XI -- The Belle of the Village

AND after all, when he had brushed the dust of travel from his clothes and from his horse's
harness, when he had mounted the gray, and when he had learned the road, he felt that there
was no retreat and that he must forget that anxious night as though it had been a dangerous dream.

He found Father Leonard seated on a trim bench of spinach-green. The six stone steps leading
up to the door showed that the house had a cellar. The walls of the garden and of the hemp-field
were plastered with lime and sand. It was a handsome house, and might almost have been mistaken
for the dwelling of a bourgeois.

Germain's future father-in-law came forward to meet him, and having plied him, for five minutes,
with questions concerning his entire family, he added that conventional phrase with which one
passer-by addresses another concerning the object of his journey: "So you are taking a little
trip in this part of the country?"

"I have come to see you," replied the husbandman, "to give you this little present of game
with my father's compliments, and to tell you from him that you ought to know with what intentions
I come to your house."

"Oh, ho!" said Father Leonard, laughing and tapping his capacious stomach, "I see, I understand,
I am with you, and," he added with a wink, "you will not be the only one to pay your court,
young man. There are three already in the house dancing attendance like you. I never turn anybody
away, and I should find it hard to say yes or no to any of them, for they are all good matches.
Yet, on account of Father Maurice and for the sake of the rich fields you till, I hope that
it may be you. But my daughter is of age and mistress of her own affairs. She will do as she
likes. Go in and introduce yourself. I hope that you will draw the prize."

"I beg your pardon," answered Germain, amazed to find himself an extra when he had counted
on being alone in the field. "I was not aware that your daughter was supplied already with
suitors, and I did not come to quarrel over her."

"If you supposed that because you were slow in coming, my daughter would be left unprovided
for, you were greatly mistaken, my son," replied Father Leonard with unshaken good humor. "Catherine
has the wherewithal to attract suitors, and her only difficulty lies in choosing. But come
in; don't lose heart. The woman is worth, a struggle."

And pushing in Germain by the shoulders with boisterous gaiety, he called to his daughter as
they entered the house:

"So, Catherine, here is another!"

This cordial but unmannerly method of introduction to the widow, in the presence of her other
devotees, completed Germain's distress and embarrassment. He felt the awkwardness of his position,
and stood for a few moments without daring to look upon the beauty and her court.

The Widow Guérin had a good figure and did not lack freshness, but her expression and her dress
displeased Germain the instant he saw her. She had a bold, self-satisfied look, and her cap,
edged with three lace flounces, her silk apron, and her fichu of fine black lace were little
in accord with the staid and sober widow he had pictured to himself.

Her elaborate dress and forward manners inclined Germain to judge the widow old and ugly, although
she was certainly not either. He thought that such finery and playful manners might well suit
little Marie's years and wit, but that the widow's fun was labored and over bold, and that
she wore her fine clothes in bad taste.

The three suitors were seated at a table loaded with wines and meats which were spread out
for their use throughout the Sunday morning; for Father Leonard liked to show off his wealth,
and the widow was not sorry to display her pretty china and keep a table like a rich lady.
Germain, simple and unsuspecting as he was, watched everything with a penetrating glance, and
for the first time in his life he kept on the defensive when he drank. Father Leonard obliged
him to sit down with his rivals, and taking a chair opposite he treated him with great politeness,
and talked to him rather than to the others.

The present of game, despite the breach Germain had made on his own account, was still plenteous
enough to produce its effect. The widow did not look unaware of its presence, and the suitors
cast disdainful glances in its direction.

Germain felt ill at ease in this company, and did not eat heartily. Father Leonard poked fun
at him.

"You look very melancholy," said he, "and you are ill-using your glass. You must not allow
love to spoil your appetite, for a fasting lover can make no such pretty speeches as he whose
ideas are brightened with a drop of wine."

Germain was mortified at being thought already in love, and the artificial manner of the widow,
who kept lowering her eyes with a smile as a woman does who is sure of her calculations, made
him long to protest against his pretended surrender; but fearing to appear uncivil, he smiled
and held his peace.

He thought the widow's beaus, three bumpkins. They must have been rich for her to admit of
their pretensions. One was over forty, and fat as Father Leonard; another had lost an eye,
and drank like a sot. The third was a young fellow, and nice-looking too; but he kept insisting
on displaying his wit, and would say things so silly that they were painful to hear. Yet the
widow laughed as though she admired all his foolishness, and made small proof of her good taste
thereby. At first Germain thought her infatuated with him, but soon he perceived that he himself
was especially encouraged, and that they wished him to make fresh advances. For this reason
he felt an increasing stiffness and severity which he took no pains to conceal.

The time came for mass, and they rose from table to go thither in company. It was necessary
to walk as far as Mers, a good half-league away, and Germain was so tired that he longed to
take a nap before they went; but he was not in the habit of missing mass, and he started with
the others.

The roads were filled with people, and the widow marched proudly along, escorted by her three
suitors, taking an arm, first of one and then of another, and carrying her head high with an
air of importance. She was eager to display the fourth to the eyes of the passers-by; but Germain
felt so ridiculous to be dragged along in the train of a petticoat where all the world might
see, that he kept at a respectable distance, chatting with Father Leonard, and succeeded in
occupying his attention so well that they did not look at all as if they belonged to the party.

XII -- The Master

WHEN they reached the village, the widow halted to allow them to catch up. Germain watched
her and saw that she danced well, but with affectation.

"So, you don't ask my daughter?" said Leonard, tapping him on the shoulder. "You are too easily
frightened."

"I have not danced since I lost my wife," answered the husbandman.

"But now that you are looking for another, mourning 's over in heart as well as in clothes."

"That 's no reason, Father Leonard. Besides, I am too old and I don't care for dancing."

"Listen," said Father Leonard, drawing him toward a retired corner, "when you entered my house
you were vexed to see the place already besieged, and I see that you are very proud. But that
is not reasonable, my boy. My daughter is used to a great deal of attention, particularly since
she left off her mourning two years ago, and it is not her place to lead you on."

"Has your daughter been thinking of marrying for two years already without making her choice?"
asked Germain.

"She does n't wish to hurry, and she is right. Although she has lively manners, and although
you may not think that she reflects a great deal, she is a woman of excellent common sense,
and knows very well what she is about."

"It does not appear to me so," said Germain ingenuously, "for she has three suitors in her
train, and if she knew her own mind, there are two of them, at least, whom she would find superfluous
and request to stay at home."

"Why, Germain, you don't understand at all. She does n't wish the old man, nor the blind man,
nor the young man, I am quite certain; yet if she were to turn them off, people would think
that she wished to remain a widow, and nobody else would come."

"Oh, I see. These three are used for a guide-post."

"As you like. What is the harm if they are satisfied?"

"Every man to his taste," said Germain.

"I see that yours is different. Now supposing that you are chosen, then they would leave the
coast clear."

"Yes, supposing! and meanwhile how much time should I have to whistle?"

"That depends on your persuasive tongue, I suppose. Until now, my daughter has always thought
that she would pass the best part of her life while she was being courted, and she is in no
hurry to become the servant of one man when she can order so many others about. So she will
please herself as long as the game amuses her; but if you please her more than the game, the
game will cease. Only you must not lose courage. Come back every Sunday, dance with her, let
her know that you are amongst her followers, and if she finds you more agreeable and better
bred than the others, some fine day she will tell you so, no doubt."

"Excuse me, Father Leonard. Your daughter has the right to do as she pleases, and it is not
my business to blame her. If I were in her place, I should do differently. I should be more
frank, and should not waste the time of men who have, doubtless, something better to do than
dancing attendance on a woman who makes fun of them. Still, if that is what amuses her and
makes her happy, it is no affair of mine. Only there is one thing I must tell you which is
a little embarrassing, since you have mistaken my intentions from the start, for you are so
sure of what is not so, that you have given me no chance to explain. You must know, then, that
I did not come here to ask for your daughter in marriage, but merely to buy a pair of oxen
which you are going to take to market next week, and which my father-in-law thinks will suit him."

"I understand, Germain," answered Leonard very calmly; "you changed your plans when you saw
my daughter with her admirers. It is as you please. It seems that what attracts some people
repels others, and you are perfectly welcome to withdraw, for you have not declared your intentions.
If you wish seriously to buy my cattle, come and see them in the pasture, and whether we make
a bargain or not, you will come back to dinner with us before you return."

"I don't wish to trouble you," answered Germain. "Perhaps you have something to do here. I
myself am tired of watching the dancing and standing idle. I will go to see your cattle, and
I will soon join you at your house."

Then Germain made his escape, and walked away toward the meadows where Leonard had pointed
out to him some of his cattle. It was true that Father Maurice intended to buy, and Germain
thought that if he were to bring home a fine pair of oxen at a reasonable price, he might more
easily receive a pardon for wilfully relinquishing the purpose of his journey. He walked rapidly,
and soon found himself at some distance from Ormeaux. Then of a sudden, he felt a desire to
kiss his son and to see little Marie once again, although he had lost all hope and even had
chased away the thought that he might some day owe his happiness to her.

But he looked in vain over the neighboring meadows.

"No, I am taking care of them to-day, because the shepherdess went away. She was ill."

"But have you not a new shepherdess, who came this morning?"

"Yes, surely; but she, too, has gone already."

"What! gone? Did she not have a child with her?"

"Yes, a little boy who cried. They both went away after they had been here two hours."

"Went away! Where?"

"Where they came from, I suppose. I did n't ask them."

"But why did they go away?" asked Germain, growing more and more uneasy.

"How the deuce do I know?"

"Did they not agree about wages? Yet that must have been settled before."

"I can tell you nothing about it I saw them come and go, nothing more."

Germain walked toward the farm and questioned the farmer. Nobody could give him an explanation;
but after speaking with the farmer, he felt sure that the girl had gone without saying a word,
and had taken the weeping child with her.

"Can they have been ill-treating my son?" cried Germain.

"It was your son, then? How did he happen to be with the little girl? Where do you come from,
and what is your name?"

Germain, seeing that after the fashion of the country they were answering him with questions,
stamped his foot impatiently, and asked to speak with the master.

The master was away. Usually, he did not spend the whole day when he came to the farm. He was
on horseback, and he had ridden off to one of his other farms.

"But, honestly," said Germain, growing very anxious, "can't you tell me why this girl left?"

The farmer and his wife exchanged an odd smile. Then the former answered that he knew nothing,
and that it was no business of his. All that Germain could learn was that both girl and child
had started off toward Fourche. He rushed back to Fourche. The widow and her lovers were still
away; so was Father Leonard. The maid told him that a girl and a child had come to ask for
him, but that as she did not know them, she did not wish to let them in, and had advised them
to go to Mers.

"And why did you refuse to let them in?" said Germain, angrily. "People are very suspicious
in this country, where nobody opens the door to a neighbor."

"But you see," answered the maid, "in a house as rich as this, I must keep my eyes open. When
the master is away, I am responsible for everything, and I cannot open the door to the first
person that comes along."

"It is a bad custom," said Germain, "and I had rather be poor than to live in constant fear
like that. Good-by to you, young woman, and good-by to your vile country."

He made inquiries at the neighboring house. The shepherdess and child had been seen. As the
boy had left Belair suddenly, carelessly dressed, with his blouse torn, and his little lambskin
over his shoulders, and as little Marie was necessarily poorly clad at all times, they had
been taken for beggars. People had offered them bread. The girl had accepted a crust for the
child, who was hungry, then she had walked away with him very quickly, and had entered the forest.

Germain thought a minute, then he asked whether the farmer of Ormeaux had not been at Fourche.

"Yes," they answered, "he passed on horseback a few seconds after the girl."

"Was he chasing her?"

"Oh, so you understand?" answered the village publican, with a laugh. Throwing the saddle on
the gray's back, he leaped upon it, and set off at full gallop toward the wood of Chanteloube.

His heart beat hard with fear and anger; the sweat poured down his forehead; he spurred the
mare till the blood came, though the gray needed no pressing when she felt herself on the road
to her stable.

XIII -- The Old Woman

GERMAIN came soon to the spot where he had passed the night on the border of the pool. The
fire was smoking still. An old woman was gathering the remnants of the wood little Marie had
piled there. Germain stopped to question her. She was deaf and mistook his inquiries.

"Yes, my son," said she, "this is the Devil's Pool. It is an evil spot, and you must not approach
it without throwing in three stones with your left hand, while you cross yourself with the
right. That drives away the spirits. Otherwise trouble comes to those who go around it."

"I am not asking about that," said Germain, moving nearer her, and screaming at the top of
his lungs. "Have you seen a girl and a child walking through the wood?"

"Yes," said the old woman, "a little child was drowned there."

Germain shook from head to foot; but happily the hag added:

"That happened a long time ago. In memory of the accident they raised a handsome cross there.
But one stormy night, the bad spirits threw it into the water. You can still see one end of
it. If anybody were unlucky enough to pass the night here, he could never find his way out
before daylight. He must walk and walk, and though he went two hundred leagues into the forest,
he must always return to the same place."

The peasant's imagination was aroused in spite of himself, and the thought of the evils that
must come in order that the old woman's assertions might be vindicated, took so firm a hold
of his mind that he felt chilled through and through. Hopeless of obtaining more news, he remounted,
and traversed the woods afresh, calling Pierre with all his might, whistling, cracking his
whip, and snapping the branches that the whole forest might reëcho with the noise of his coming;
then he listened for an answering voice, but he heard no sound save the cowbells scattered
through the glades, and the wild cries of the swine as they fought over the acorns.

At length Germain heard behind him the noise of a horse following in his traces, and a man
of middle age, dark, sturdy, and dressed after the city fashion, called to him to stop. Germain
had never seen the farmer of Ormeaux, but his instinctive rage told him at once that this was
the man. He turned, and eyeing him from head to foot, waited for him to speak.

"Have not you seen a young girl of fifteen or sixteen go by with a small boy?" asked the farmer,
with an assumed air of indifference, although he was evidently ill at ease.

"What do you want of her?" answered Germain, taking no pains to conceal his anger.

"I might tell you that that is none of your business, my friend. But as I have no reasons for
secrecy, I shall tell you that she is a shepherdess whom I engaged for a year, before I knew
her. When I saw her, she looked too young and frail to work on the farm. I thanked her, but
I wished to pay the expenses of her short journey, and while my back was turned, she went off
in a huff. She was in such a hurry that she forgot even some of her belongings and her purse,
which has certainly not much in it, probably but a few pennies; but since I was going in this
direction, I hoped to meet her, and give her back the things which she left behind, as well
as what I owe her."

Germain had too honest a heart not to pause at hearing a story which, however unlikely, was
not impossible. He fastened his penetrating gaze on the farmer, who submitted to the examination
with a plentiful supply of impudence or of good faith.

"I wish to get at the bottom of this matter," said Germain; "and," continued he, suppressing
his indignation, "the girl lives in my village. I know her. She can't be far away. Let 's ride
on together; we shall find her, no doubt."

"You are right," said the farmer; "let's move on; but if we do not find her before we reach
the end of this road, I shall give up, for I must turn off toward Ardentes."

"Oh, oh!" thought the peasant, "I shall not part with you, even if I have to follow you around
the 'Devil's Pool for twenty-four hours."

"Stop," said Germain suddenly, fixing his eyes on a clump of broom which waved in a peculiar
manner. "Halloa! halloa! Petit Pierre, is that you, my child?"

The boy recognized his father's voice, and came out from the broom leaping like a young deer;
but when he saw Germain in company with the farmer, he stopped dismayed, and stood irresolute.
"Come, my Pierre, come. It is I," cried the husbandman, as he leaped from his horse and ran
toward his boy to take him in his arms; "and where is little Marie?"

"She is hiding there, because she is afraid of that dreadful black man, and so am I."

"You need n't be afraid. I am here. Marie, Marie. It is I."

Marie crept toward them, but the moment she saw Germain with the farmer close behind, she sprang
forward, and throwing herself into his arms, clung to him as a daughter to her father. But
neither shame nor despair were in her face.

"Your master wishes to speak to you," said he, his eyes fixed on her features.

"My master!" she exclaimed fiercely; "that man is no master of mine, and he never shall be.
You, Germain, you are my master. I want you to take me home with you. I will be your servant
for nothing."

The farmer advanced, feigning impatience. "Little girl," said he, "you left something behind
at the farm, which I am bringing back to you."

"No, you are not, sir," answered little Marie. "I did n't forget anything, and I have nothing
to ask of you."

"Listen a moment," returned the farmer. "It 's I who have something to tell you. Come with
me. Don't be afraid. It's only a word or two."

"You may say them aloud. I have no secrets with you."

"At any rate, do take your money."

"My money? You owe me nothing, thank God!"

"I suspected as much," said Germain under his breath, "but I don't care, Marie. Listen to what
he has to say to you, for--I am curious to know. You can tell me afterward. Go up to his horse.
I shall not lose sight of you."

Marie took three steps toward the farmer. He bent over the pommel of his saddle, and lowering
his voice he said:

"Little girl, here is a bright golden louis for you. Don't say anything about it; do you hear?
I shall say that I found you too frail to work on my farm. There will be no more talk about
that. I shall be passing by your house one of these days; and if you have not said anything,
I will give you something more; and then if you are more sensible, you have only to speak.
I will take you home with me, or I will come at dusk and talk with you in the meadows. What
present would you like me to bring you?"

"Here, sir, is the present I have for you," answered little Marie, aloud, as she threw the
golden louis in his face with all her might. "I thank you heartily, and I beg that if you come
anywhere near our house, you will be good enough to let me know. All the boys in the neighborhood
will go out to welcome you, because, where I live, we are very fond of gentlemen who try to
make love to poor girls. You shall see. They will be on the lookout for you."

"You lie with your dirty tongue," cried the farmer, raising his stick with a dangerous air.
"You wish to make people believe what is not so, but you shall never get a penny out of me.
We know what kind of a girl you are."

Marie drew back, frightened, and Germain sprang to the bridle of the farmer's horse and shook
it violently.

"I understand now," said he; "it is easy to see what is going on. Get down, my man, get down;
I want to talk to you."

The farmer was not eager to take up the quarrel. Anxious to escape, he set spurs to his horse
and tried to loosen the peasant's grasp by striking down his hands with a cane; but Germain
dodged the blow, and seizing hold of his antagonist's leg, he unseated him and flung him to
the earth. The farmer regained his feet, but although he defended himself vigorously, he was
knocked down once more. Germain held him to the ground. Then he said:

"Poor coward, I could thrash you if I wished. But I don't want to do you an injury, and, besides,
no amount of punishment would help your conscience--but you shall not stir from this spot until
you beg the girl's pardon, on your knees."

