It would be hard to find words which would truthfully describe the grace and charms of this
lady, whom the best society of Vienna admitted only with the greatest repugnance, but who consoled
herself for their scorn by receiving at her own house the most brilliant part of the French army.

An army contractor conceived the idea of procuring this lady for the Emperor, and, without
informing his Majesty, made propositions to the countess through one of his friends, a cavalry
officer attached to the military police of the town of Vienna.

The cavalry officer thought he was representing his Majesty, and in good faith said to the
countess that his Majesty was exceedingly anxious to see her at Schoenbrunn.  One morning,
accordingly, he made propositions for that evening, which, appearing somewhat abrupt to the
countess, she did not decide at once, but demanded a day for reflection, adding that she must
have good proof that the Emperor was really sincere in this matter.  The officer protested
his sincerity, promised, moreover, to give every proof she required, and made an appointment
for that evening. Having given the contractor an account of his negotiation, the latter gave
orders that a carriage, escorted by the cavalry officer, should be ready for the countess on
the evening indicated.  At the appointed hour the officer returned to the countess, expecting
her to accompany him, but she begged him to return next day, saying that she had not yet decided,
and needed the night for longer reflection.  At the officer's solicitations she decided, however,
and appointed the next day, giving her word of honor to be ready at the appointed hour.

The carriage was then sent away, and ordered for the next evening at the same hour.  This time
the contractor's envoy found the countess well disposed; she received him gayly, eagerly even,
and told him that she had given orders in regard to her affairs as if she were going on a journey;
then, regarding him fixedly, said, tutoying him, "You may return in an hour and I will be ready;
I will go to him, you may rely upon it. Yesterday I had business to finish, but to-day I am
free.  If you are a good Austrian, you will prove it to me; you know how much harm he has done
our country!  This evening our country will be avenged!  Come for me; do not fail!"

The cavalry officer, frightened at such a confidence as this, was unwilling to accept the responsibility,
and repeated everything at the chateau; in return for which the Emperor rewarded him generously,
urged him for his own sake not to see the countess again, and expressly forbade his having
anything more to do with the matter.  All these dangers in no wise-depressed the Emperor; and
he had a habit of saying, "What have I to fear?  I cannot be assassinated; I can die only on
the field of battle." But even on the field of battle he took no care of himself, and at Essling,
for example, exposed himself like a chief of battalion who wants to be a colonel; bullets slew
those in front, behind, beside him, but he did not budge.  It was then that a terrified general
cried, "Sire, if your Majesty does not retire, it will be necessary for me to have you carried
off by my grenadiers."  This anecdote proves took any precautions in regard to himself.  The
signs of exasperation manifested by the inhabitants of Vienna made him very watchful, however,
for the safety of his troops, and he expressly forbade their leaving their cantonments in the
evening.  His Majesty was afraid for them.

The chateau of Schoenbrunn was the rendezvous of all the illustrious savants of Germany; and
no new work, no curious invention, appeared, but the Emperor immediately gave orders to have
the author presented to him. It was thus that M. Maelzel, the famous inventor of metronomy,
was allowed the honor of exhibiting before his Majesty several of his own inventions.  The
Emperor admired the artificial limbs intended to replace more comfortably and satisfactorily
than wooden ones those carried off by balls, and gave him orders to have a wagon constructed
to convey the wounded from the field of battle.  This wagon was to be of such a kind that it
could be folded up and easily carried behind men on horseback, who accompanied the army, such
as surgeons, aides, servants, etc.  M. Maelzel had also built an automaton known throughout
Europe under the name of the chess player, which he brought to Schoenbrunn to show to his Majesty,
and set it up in the apartments of the Prince de Neuchatel.  The Emperor visited the Prince;
and I, in company with several other persons, accompanied him, and found this automaton seated
before a table on which the chessmen were arranged. His Majesty took a chair, and seating himself
in front of the automaton, said, with a laugh, "Come, my comrade, we are ready."  The automaton
bowed and made a sign with his hand to the Emperor, as if to tell him to begin, upon which
the game commenced.  The Emperor made two or three moves, and intentionally made a wrong one.
The automaton bowed, took the piece, and put it in its proper place.  His Majesty cheated a
second time; the automaton bowed again, and took the piece.  "That is right," said the Emperor;
and when he cheated a third time, the automaton, passing his hand over the chess-board, spoiled
the game.

The Emperor complimented the inventor highly.  As we left the room, accompanied by the Prince
de Neuchatel we found in the antechamber two young girls, who presented to the prince, in the
name of their mother, a basket of beautiful fruit.  As the prince welcomed them with an air
of familiarity, the Emperor, curious to find out who they were, drew near and questioned them;
but they did not understand French: Some one then told his Majesty that these two pretty girls
were daughters of a good woman, whose life Marshal Berthier had saved in 1805.  On this occasion
he was alone on horseback, the cold was terrible, and the ground covered with snow, when he
perceived, lying at the foot of a tree, a woman who appeared to be dying, and had been seized
with a stupor.  The marshal took her in his arms, and placed her on his horse with his cloak
wrapped around her, and thus conveyed her to her home, where her daughters were mourning her
absence.  He left without making himself known; but they recognized him at the capture of Vienna,
and every week the two sisters came to see their benefactor, bringing him flowers or fruit
as a token of their gratitude.