 After pondering for a good thing the girl,
adding "and that that ..." as he says, "is not gold that glitters."

- What I would say, if casu, by his father ... or his mother.

- And
what are his father or his mother to cross?

- What do I know?

Stories.

- So stories ... Who is the father?

- Nah, you Echeli a galgu.

-
Anda, dark!

And the mother?

- Now you panicle!

And does he have at home!

- Who, man?

- Nah, you.

- Me?

- Nah,
you mesmu ... What for the ojus démontrer any face, if not see what's
pa delanti of eyus?

- Just say a thousand devils take you: who is
the mother of Tona?

- Pos Facia.

- Facia! - Exclaimed in amazement
-.

But Facia married?

- At vistu - I answered the mozallón with too
much phlegm.

- Who? - He inquired.

- That's the story - he pointed
at the ground he answered back with the forefinger of his right hand,
without looking or slow the pace.

- Well, Tell it to me then - I
said then, sitting astride the peak of a overhanging rock beside the
trail, not so much more comfortable hearing what I recount Chisco,
as resting from the fatigue that was giving me that our continued
up the slope the bitter mountain.

We had won the first third of its height, and were already within the terms of the large green that
is visible from the house "of my major", ie the "Prao-Council which,
since there seemed endless, immense, in the oblique direction the
path we had.

Chisco, when he noticed that I had sat down, stopped, turned toward
me, smiled his way to see me so well accommodated, and finally, back
slowly.

- Tell me why - I said as he stopped next to me - but with
all his hair and signals.

To instill good spirits gave him a drink of my Fraser, who was the
best candy for him, and a cigar of the largest in my bag.

 Unclaimed Top-strings                          243
     XXVII. The Last Day of School, and The Last
            Chapter of the Story                           252

------------------------------------------------------------------------

ILLUSTRATIONS

"Not there, not there, my child!"                Frontispiece

                                                  FACING PAGE
Jack amusing the small boys with stories of
hunting, fishing, and frontier adventure                   44

"Cousin Sukey," said little Columbus, "I want to ask a favor of you"                      
120

Bob Holliday carries home his friend                      258

------------------------------------------------------------------------

THE HOOSIER SCHOOL-BOY

CHAPTER I

THE NEW SCHOLAR

While the larger boys in the village school of Greenbank were having a game of "three old cat"
before school-time, there appeared on the playground a strange boy, carrying two books, a slate,
and an atlas under his arm. 

I repeat that I learned the consequent feeling of such provisions, I respected and respect
as a Spanish citizen, the sole state in this place, if you can just be the basis to support these
provisions, it would be difficult to prove the justice, public policy and convenience which
demand otherwise. But not having taken the pen to enter into such an issue, I separate it, and
step to my attempt, which is none other than give a small memory reasoned, any ideas and news
of what our Philippine Islands, with the laudable object in my memory and memories of those
islands, the inhabitants see my gratitude and wishes to contribute to its prosperity, which I always
interesaros more expensive than I can.

As the most esplícita proof of the above, remember the Government, the Spanish all on behalf
of my friends overseas, and purge the constant loyalty of the Philippine Islands not denied in any
way today, but of the many terrible swings policies because the Peninsula has gone so far in this
century, is a creditor consideration to all the distinguished Government today rije the destiny
of the motherland, and to attention colejisladores Corps, so that when the case reached into
the discussion of the special laws should govern these provinces, prevailing only the desire
to make them happy, to improve their lot and condition, is reached at the end desired, and are
facilitating the development of their prosperity by the most brief and simple. Those are my
main desires, and believe I can contribute in some way to illustrate the opinion of those who do
not know what our Philippines, I have decided to coordinate some notes and notes that leisure time
on other days I wrote about useful reforms that can and should made in the Philippines to achieve
as interesting objects, such as to pursue their development and prosperity.

The committee proposes and say carries, but the stamp of authority
and power of prestijio, at least the belief that long experience has
given me, living in the Philippines: reason and the need to call for
these reforms, the effect of the lights of the century, and see that
after three hundred years that we have this beautiful part of the
Asian world, just we get those precious blankets countries of birth
for Spain that will put the Legaspi immortal.

His story is a test and do not object to this truth: its conquest and what the tradition has passed
down to us than were those islands, every reason the need to address them with any more attention
than even this, to facilitate demanding improvements, and that are subject to little or no
cost.

It should be noted however, that some of the means used in its conquest, building and conservation,
and any subsequent changes made, can always be useful; and based reforms such principles, and
respecting their traditions and customs as do not object to those, produced all the effects are desired.
That this is so, none or very few will doubt, and therefore should
repeat that the lejislador that lejisla for any state, must not lose
sight of their habits and customs, and respect, as possible is moving
in that attempt, the institutions that exist, as the basis of such
principles, is very likely to produce the desired reforms.

On the contrary, if the lejislador maims and rips the story of a country, destroying their
institutions, and does not respect ancient customs all for carrying into effect the changes that
theory has been strongly advise your imagination, you can with the utmost good faith, intention
and desire, can not cause harm to compensation, for easy and even possible is that in this case
the people start to grumble, keep bitching and moaning, and conclude by lifted as powerful
as it is, and to the carelessness of the further lejislador war with its disasters, and the revolution
with their crimes. So, keep in mind that laws should be similar to that given country, they always
respected in certain principles, fundamentals and practices that are rooted more and more, and
strengthen the prosperity of peoples and happiness of their inhabitants.

Lately, I hope that when you get into the hands of my friends in the Philippines this small tribute
of my gratitude, I dedicate them, only to see it my votes directed by happiness of those provinces,
and across much of them can write, no more ambition than the step of giving an idea of ​​its
importance and merit, to promote useful reforms demanded the preservation of peace, alleviation
of taxes, and improve their status and condition, providing for such honorable means prosperity
for all its inhabitants, which the fancy for all can be more expensive than

Luis Prudencio Alvarez.

MEMORY

ON

THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.

                            The Philippines, for its great expanse, its advantageous position
in the center of the world Asia's trade, by its considerable population,
and the fertility of its soil, susceptible how many are bred productions
between the two Tropics, claiming the Government of the Metropolis
an orderly system of orders and reforms, while more and more entrenched
their peace and internal security, as indispensable as necessary to
the preservation, promotion agriculture, industry and trade to that
eminent degree of prosperity to which they are called for the many
items which themselves contain rich, and he seems are destined for
Providence, which has been lavishly promoted with the situation and
as bright as fertile soil.

                             

                      

Encouraged me, and wanting it so interesting purposes are made, I have determined to form this small
memory, with the dual purpose of releasing news of the state as they were the Philippines to my
departure from them, and presenting some of the many obstacles to development of prosperity and
wealth, and means that could be used to destroy them, excite the greatest talents of others,
with more time to address this important subject, to more thoroughly and more precisely, spread
abroad his comments on the subject, to influence the mind of the enlightened Government today rije
destinations in the country, and provide by this means the useful reforms to the state of
the provinces of the Philippines calls for advance prosperity and greatness.

For my part I will stick as much as possible, to indicate only the effect as an EXPERIENCE twelve years
of residence in the Islands has taught me, can help to establish the field justice more fixed than
that observed, and improve the administration of the estate public: branches must undergo
major reforms in the day as they are, and can produce wonderful effects and incalculable benefits,
so the islands as to the metropolis.

I hope that those who deign to honor me by reading my humble thoughts, I waive all their indulgence
for defects to be noted, purely to see in my desire lines laudable
improvements in the Philippines in the classes that you made mention,
and if these poorly coordinated any benefits or phrases proves useful
for those countries, with only this would be rewarded with interest
the wishes of the speaker, for the satisfaction of having contributed
to the achievement of very interesting objects in any part, however
small that this was a unique event that yearns Award for the zeal
which cherishes in his heart to such a degree as that but for the
good and happiness of all the inhabitants of those islands, whom professes
the purest affection, retains and always keep the best sympathies
and fondest memories.

PART ONE.

§. I.

ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE.

That prompt and proper administration of justice is the first base of happiness, good order and peace
of all peoples of the world, no one can doubt, and that in any Astrea nation which does not exercise
his royal rule across the full of his power, not more that confusion and disorder, serious evils
of transcendence, of outrage and pain, is also a I really do not need proof, being well known.
Indeed, where justice does not prevail, nothing good can be: innocence is no safe haven anywhere;
seeds discord abound want to do, the barbarous law of force with
tyranny oppresses the weaker; and finally, how evil can afflict mortals,
many are gathered in villages in the realms, where benefits are unknown
influences of justice.

Philippines, that precious jewel of the East, as it has been qualified
and justice for other pens before mine, it has throughout its extent
the beneficial influence of Astrea, nor any the readiness to desire
it off: it is necessary to remove certain obstacles that will to be
provided, and to raise a total reform, as will be later, or taken
other establishing enough to effect, and this achieved, is the first
step for the happiness of the Islands; industry remain as interesting
as the foot and form that is raised, is the largest obstacle to their
prosperity, and impossible to move one step forward, or it can have
its good effects of laws, wiser, more just and far-sighted they are.

It will show: -

§. II.

LAND OF THE HEARING.

The high consideration and respect that the audience deserves Manila among the Indians, from even
the tradition among them, remembering those happy days when their magistrates visiting their provinces,
and they made during these visits as well to the people [1].

The judges guests were in fact more severe than a judge, a friendly mediator in disputes of India,
to compositions, celebrated transactions, noted land boundaries, and even in terms of people,
gave a sort of municipal ordinances that were observed, and protejian against the abuse of the
mayors, correjidores, and even knew in which caused some priest, because as in these visits was
not impose penalties, execute punishment, nor adapted with violence, but minds together, cutting
disagreements, and make disappear dissension between families, between neighbors and even among
peoples, these visits were truly a parental visits and charity, and in them the Orijen High respect,
consideration and appreciation of the magistrates.

Disappeared these visits, Like many other things that both prestijio
acquired the Spanish name, and with them a large element of many goods
do not cause no harm: return to old form and, about not being easy,
nor would produce the goods as before, for reasons that about being
long enumerate, are of this place.

However, to promote its restoration in the form given limited powers
and at certain periods, it would be an asset of incalculable benefit
and best consequences.

But the well of the Manila audience (say what they want their antagonists) I have a very convenient
for the disposition of the Indian Act, as to the amobilidad and time given to promotion of their ministers,
just scale should establish, found on the same grounds for the law, without searching for others,
some are very to everyone, that is, that not only is useful to reward its magistrates, but
also uprooted from friends and close relations that come in those countries where long time
resident. These friends of influence, if prejudicial to the administration line of justice are in
Manila an almost necessary for the short Spanish population [2], the absence of any recreational
or public distraction, and that with the laxity of the climate, and customs and praise of
the country, you enter a life spoiled and soft and loses that Enerji integrity and European
customs to the few years of residence in the Islands. Yes, the Philippines is a country in
which mental tasks and may be frequent or long; country that leans to leisure and pleasure
more than others, for its mild temperament produces all the lax habits behind its climate, and even
effeminate weakens the spirits, and cause the greater damage, the more vivid are the passions,
especially to youth. But back to our purpose, although it is not strange to him the idea issued.

The
audience of Manila has sought at all times with more or less effectively give further impetus
to the administration of justice in the islands with vast territory,
but the effects never have responded to their good wishes, because
there are natural obstacles that his authority can be overcome.

Of them will be discussed in the third paragraph, when speaking of the mayors and correjidores,
let us try to those who can overcome.

The incompetence of those in junior destinations salable and renounced, is an obstacle and
not a little package, to give impetus to the administration of justice. Scribes chamber receivers
and attorneys do not know or do not seek anything but to get the full potential of their offices.
These trades are very small numbers and little benefit, because in the vast expanse of military jurisdiction
in the wealthy people of the Philippines, the audit of war has all civil cases so important
in the Islands, and the audience is limited to criminal cases and land disputes between Indians
and not of much value, lawsuits and has the sole business of any trade value since the publication
code in that country, but these, not many, not too serious, which is not deactivated when
the idea you have some much consideration, but not what Gen.: reasons for not possible or
easy to buy and enter taught Spanish to serve those trades hearing. The consequences of this
are delays and losses on the early administration justice, the greater disorder in the offices
of the hearing, the lack of books of seats, registrations, and state laws prevent relationships
and, finally, that to stretch it out a Order or trade, it must always
do a minister who takes this job.

This Thin story, nothing exaggerated, you can easily know how many there will be difficulties
to overcome in order to march as best that can be, and not as it should, the administration of justice;
and for further proof of this truth, go down to explanations and
details more retail discussing some of the ideas expressed, and other
obstacles stating no less bulk, and that can be removed easily.

That the administration of justice is slow, even in the extreme, heavy in the Philippines,
I think is a truth is not brought into question, but for those who may doubt it will bring
reflections following.

Manila's audience consists of one room, who knows and fails on second and third instance all
kinds of business of the thirty-one provinces (today and thirty-two) which includes its territory
Este. A regent, five ministers and two prosecutors, its endowment, which very few times is complete,
and under the réjimen and how ordinary legal substantiation is observed, is impossible and
any failure to provide early and ongoing failure to matters of attribution. The various committees
outside of his ministry that weigh about the same magistrates, very serious and many of them,
is another obstacle, and not small, to be administered promptly and effective justice. Indeed,
income assistance and supervision of the finances public, a charge more than regular occupation
continues to be a good lawyer, if you have to serve which corresponds,
has been from 1829 to 1839, which was provided by particular lawyer,
in charge of the ministers of the audience, and with actual appointments
with neglect and contempt of the law of India [3], which instructs:
the judges are no more than judges, and have no commissions, rather
than those that the court gives them, etc. The advice of government
is another top destination as before, and has also been played by
a magistrate a few years.

In 1837 was provided in another particular lawyer. The Audit of War Marine and also was served
a few years by another magistrate, and although in 1830 the auditor was war appointed by the King,
and took charge of his office, not the Marines who, but suffer mistake, even today plays the same
magistrate. It should be noted that these destinations assignments have decent, and have great
emoluments by reason of fees, and one and others, the salaries of
ministers, have enjoyed these at once, when they have served these
jobs.

The court of dead and missing property, an institution that should be preserved and give her
best, as we shall tell you the reasons be expressed in a separate paragraph is another position
that turns among the magistrates of every two years [4], and this
court is matters of importance, but that is a lot or a little bump
your organization, it is certain that There are far behind him, and
that their course is in the extreme slow, do not observe the law signal
is sent every week day to see these fights [5].

A former top joint Real Estate (discontinued now) attended as member of the regent of the hearing,
and failing the senior judge or minister oldest: the infinite expedients that knew, and whom he
output was to give a preference, occupying more than you can say, and much more, since in this
kind of business is accustomed always leave with more caution and care, the immediate financial
liability they caused, and the particular circumstances of being the only lawyer who was involved in
their decisions the minister of the audience, convince certainty to any of the above, and
that obviously went into them warily. Currently, the top joint finance litigation is composed
by three ministers, under General-president of the local deputy superintendent Finance [6], and
its business, but as many as the top joint of the former do not give in to gravity. The hall
call justice, which is the second known instance of the cars appealed the regional court and
audience of the day, also up three ministers, and in view of fiscal of civil, it's become, hear and
rule on such cars, which expedients, processes or causes, for some three names to fit you, yours
are bulky and complicated by nature and lots of points to embrace, and are therefore subject
to occupation and severity; and though not much, also distract and occupy the same business
when still in progress are room visits or calls from PC board that comprises Mr. regent or oldest
minister in a civil attorney, where as for advice, referral for consultation counter greater when
you like. A board of auctions also attend the ministers and civil attorney, who is also heavy and
irksome occupation. Finally, a lord judge rotated annually in the office of judge of sororities
and fraternities, and another is an advisor to cross what is the oldest generals, who with
the tax commissioner and civil, comprising the court of the bull, and I have some gratification
but small. Another is director of the Monte Pio, another guard, another judge of slavery and
freedom, another judge of hospitals and nursing homes rides and married expulsion to Spain [7]
being separated from their women: law fall obsolete as many good laws, another is a judge of
protocols and lower courts, and in all these units is occupation, as no shortage of issues
and different business and by necessity all the progress must be slow and even late, and they
that are themselves or any serious complication.
 The king, for his part, shut up his fists and looked silly, while Jack took courage
to keep up the battle.

But Riley tried again.

"I say, Wildcat, you think you're smart, but you're a double-distilled idiot, and haven't got
brains enough to be sensible of your misery."

This kind of outburst on Riley's part always brought a laugh from the school. But before the
laugh had died down, Jack Dudley took the word, saying, in a dry and quizzical way:

"Don't you try to claim kin with me that way, Riley. No use; I won't stand it. I don't belong
to your family. I'm neither a fool nor a coward."

"Hurrah!" shouted Bob Holliday, bringing down first one and then the other of his big feet
on the floor. "It's your put-in now, Riley." Forced to leave the governor died at the hands of the Indians along
with most of his soldiers. The precious archives of the province, which contained all manuscript
work of the Jesuits, were entirely consumed in this fire.

Later, troops were sent to Santa Cruz to the Canichana sugetar San-Pedro, and this mission,
which had been until then capital of the province, gave his rank to Trinidad and was transferred
to another point. Moxos has fallen steadily, and in 1829 its revenues
were not enough twenty thousand pesos, while in time the Jesuits had
reached sixty thousand.

In 1830 the province was governed by Don Matias Carrasco, educated man and benevolent they took
great care reform abuses, but discontent employee comportacion junior, left his post and return
to Cochabamba, his homeland, published under the title synoptic description
of an interesting booklet Moxos [1] which indicates infinite abuse,
and advocates enardecidamente for freedom for the people of Moxos.

In 1831, during my stay in Chiquitos, the government proposed to establish between this province Moxos
and an exchange of salt for horses, so he had to either agree of course.

The following year, after having traveled throughout the Moxos in order to examine circumstantially,
I went back on track for its plains towards the mountains, carried the attempt to find a way
of communication less dangerous than Palta-Cueva, and willing, while in Cochabamba to overtake
the President of the Republic in order to submit its review my plans for improvement and reform,
applicable to the general administration of the Moxos province in particular benefit of its inhabitants.
When they had seen in the case of appreciate the excellent character and good nature of Cayuvava,
asked the governor to give me some rowers Exaltation to drive my canoes, and prepared for this
long journey of three hundred to four hundred leagues, at least, started to climb up the country
of Yuracares, where I walked by savage countries, the most rugged in the world until they came to
Cochabamba in June 10, 1832. I went to see without delay to the President and spoke of the province
of Moxos, giving one of many abuses that were committed there, and exposes the means of reform that
seemed appropriate. After listening to me carefully chosen to write me a detailed report,
according to Mr. Carrasco, to serve as a guide to the new governor who was to command, and the
Bishop of Santa-Cruz, whom was imposed the duty to visit the province to reform caring religious
abuses. Introduce also my plan to open a new path of communication with Moxos, plan it adopted,
expressing some misgivings about the risks to which I was to ESPON. I finally the satisfaction
of seeing that everything went out the wording of my desires, and
that I had not brought to no avail my good offices for the sake of
the poor Indians of the missions.

I left Cochabamba July 2 to conduct my business. I climbed the mountain first Tiquipaya, even Tutulima
found no obstacles in my way. Leaving this place, last lived, walked through the side of the river
and cerranía Tutulima of Paracti, finding on the other side of the Yuracarés nation, with whom I
built a canoe continuing then the river Securi, I, at forty days
of excruciating journey, to the province Moxos completely satisfied
with the successful outcome of my adventure resolution.

Meanwhile, my company had been frowned upon by some employees of Moxos, which being sent from
Santa Cruz de la Sierra, worry did not stop with the establishment
of a more abbreviated communication by way of Cachabamba.

Awaked the old rivalries and Then came a sad event to mess up the forecast.

Col. Davila, whom I had left in Cochabamba, and soon to depart for Moxos with mission to operate
the numerous reforms, which in concert with him we had Mr. Carrasco indicated the benefit of
the unfortunate inhabitants of this province, had to succumb to strong impulses that had befallen
colic in the evening before their departure, to the Within hours of being in your home from a party.
Such was the sad news brought by canoes, which had gone for Isiboro. I saw it with feeling that
is rendered useless much effort as I had done to get the improvement
of the condition of indigenous inhabiting these remote regions.

On September 8, following the course of the river Piray, I found the bishop of Santa-Cruz,
which was commissioned by the government to visit the province of Moxos, to extirpate in her
religious abuse. A sandbar toilet served us for twenty-four hours, at which period had a long
conference with Mr. Cordova illustrísimo, educated personage and very friendly, about the sorry
state of the province of Moxos, telling me means I appeared as leading to the sauté of abuse of all
kinds, ranging daily auento. I then tried a moment of satisfaction, finding in this worthy
prelate protector solicitous of humanity, ready to bring into play
all the strings to make ends both wanted, improving the condition
of the Indians.

I found myself in Moxos in 1832, Mr. Carmelo Rivera, acting governor of the province, tried
to suppress the riots and purge the country of those speculators and dishonest employees, taking
to do a crackdown. Sent wagered on all roads, emissaries charge of possession of the canoes loaded, then
check in the capital goods the year that they drove. This measure did not fail to produce the
desired effect. All managers were caught with more fruit on his property, that the party intended
to the State, no testimony was needed lighter lawless that made use of its functions, and the
party that drew the poor Indians, using the authority they had over them to make them work
as slaves.

Fully convicted of so much guilt were all dismissed on the spot.

STATE OF THE PROVINCE

Policy Division.

It is to believe, what happened to the missions of Paraguay [1], that
the preservation of Jesuit institutions, under different governments
that have happened in the period sixty-five years has prevented the
destruction of Moxos missions, as well, visiting I the province in
1832, I found, with men as rulers, with different customs prosperity
and well below, all still intact and administrative institutions religious
missionaries who had left in 1767, a time of their expulsion.

With the suppression of four missions, under the administration of the priests [1], and the
creation del Carmen and San-Ramon-time governors [2], the province currently consists thirteen
inhabited areas, which are generally divided into two parties, one called Mamore and Pampas and
the other Itonama and Baures. The first consists of Trinidad, Loreto,
San-Xavier, St. Ignatius, San-Pedro, of exaltation, of Santa Ana and
Kings.

The second contains missions San-Ramon, San-Joaquin, Magdalena, Concepcion
and Carmen.

Party Mamore and Pampas.

TRINIDAD.

The mission of Trinidad, one of the oldest in the province, was founded
by the Jesuits in 1687.

She is the center of a vast plain that is located three miles east of Mamore, and as to two
Ivari river, its surroundings, very dry in the winter and flooded in summer, lack of trees: there
towards the east a large lake, a quarter of a mile distant from people. Its population, made
up of Indians Moxos, amounted, in 1691, the number of 2200 fifty-three [1], and in 1824 came
this mission to be the capital of the province.

His church is vast and beautiful architecture, though somewhat overloaded
with sculptures wood.

The Government House, which has a high floor, is large and quite comfortable. This village similar
to all others in terms of its circulation, exercises the same kind of Concepcion industry and
Saint Xavier. Its original inhabitants of the nation all moxa, and come to two thousand and
four, are kindly in the extreme, they begin to become civilized and dress and as in inner cities.
Some women have also adopted the dress belt, adjusted at the waist.

Every year for Passover, they leave managers of the province their
respective missions, to make his way to the capital, leading productions
of the year.

On arrival of each boat, many merchants who came from Santa-Cruz, attempt to deceive the poor
Indians, not it will heal completely ignoring the value of items received in exchange for cocoa
and other fruits.

Trinidad is the residence of the vicar general of the province, the governor, and secretary which
carries the title of general manager.

Trinity Road to San Xavier.

There are twelve miles from Trinidad to St. Xavier, which is towards the north, to pave the Instead,
it is necessary to cross the plains on horseback planted here and there carondais palms, While
for the conveyance of goods is lowered as a league and a half, the plain of west to the river
Ivari by which it follows, carrying cargoes canoes. This river born in the country of Guarayos, crossing
to the southeast across the plain, on more than two degrees long, receiving many tributaries in
its course, and then going to four miles from the Loreto mission, not far from the mission of Trinity,
to go and lost an arm of Mamore; still running some time longer, parallel to the river, before meeting
him definitely.

The island formed by these two rivers, is covered with beautiful
plantations of bananas, for cassava and other various fruits, such
as cocoa, which also is grown wild in boscages the banks, giving abundant
crops every year.

After having continued for half a day Ivari countless rodeos, you get the Mamore. The junction
formed by these rivers is perhaps of all parts of the province, the most dangerous for seafarers, as
chócanse Both strands him with extreme violence, raising tides and swirling foam, where the
flimsy boats sink: every year there are numerous examples of such failures. From this confluence of
the Mamore edges are trimmed with magnificent forests, and also of swamps, to the port of San-Xavier,
which lies about two leagues from the mission.

Trinidad roads to Loreto.

Loreto far little about twelve miles southeast of Trinidad.

In the dry season make this journey across the beautiful plains covered with palm trees here and
there carondais. Firstly it runs along the stream of Trinidad, you pass this on followed by a period,
as a mile away from a stay of the mission, we publish a thin stream that crosses by a marsh, and
a little later the San-Miguel stay where they are many cattle. Leaving this place is the middle
of the road, cross the San-Miguel Curichi bathed spacious, and after having traveled two leagues
we present the river which at all times Ivari is necessary to pass in canoes, two leagues beyond
is the residence of San-Antonio and the stream of the same name, amid some bushes, where there
are also beautiful pasture. A league of plains is the remainder of the road from this point
to Loreto.

The distance from Trinidad to Loreto, going down the river, is three times larger, and generally two
days are used to make this journey. First the river was up to its confluence Ivari Mamore arm. Most
notable is the contrast that at this point is presented to the eyes the traveler. The Ivari, coming
down from the marshes to the east of the country of Guarayos clear water very slowly, although
black sheen, while the arm Mamore near muddy red exes run with speed. You have to walk through
this arm as a league, passing through the middle of fields covered with bananas, to lead in
the Mamore. Some of its corners are filled with trees uprooted by the current, and that have been
piling up little by little in those places. In the dry season passes night on a sandbar, with
sand right and left and steep slopes, that continually undermined by water, usually collapsed
with a crash, promoting corpulent waves that failure to fund thrown
vessels, filled with water, damaged the cargo; so the Indians are
forced to watch all night, to avoid damage semejentes.

Continuing the journey passes through you pocket two large lakes which are to the right, and
soon comes the big mouth of a river called Securi, coming down from the mountains of Yuracaré:
this river, as wide as the Mamore, and which is more encased riverbed, was which I discovered when
opening the new road from Cochabamba to Moxos. Departing from the mouth Securi river, to go
ahead by the Mamore has finally come to a marsh that is to the right, and on whose shore is the
port of Loreto, located about seven miles the SSE of the mission.

It is composed of two houses that port, the one that is not only a spacious barn to house to travelers,
and the other for the mayor of the port. From this point, which, incidentally for Santa Cruz de la Sierra
or Cachabamba, necessarily attend to the travelers provided of food, goes to Loreto on horseback
through a named extended cacahual, and then a cane to go to a marsh covered with trees, where
it is necessary to bend at every step to avoid the vines, besides taking care not to trip on
the swollen roots that adorn all the ground. It then presents a floodplain, in which the horses
are put to the knees. A league of port is the residence of Nevis, where there are many cattle,
and after to cross a stream deep enough, you follow a boscage thin
and full of water, leading Finally in a flooded marsh in which water
gets to the meetings of the horse.

Is need to go at a gallop down the middle of the marshes and forests
to palm carondais get in Loreto.

The horses are so accustomed to these roads, walking for them as safe as the mules in the mountains,
and is something that really surprised to see them save with such skill holes covering all that
ground. Finally, after Tico had crossed the river, through a bridge of logs, is cast in Loreto
dismounted.

LORETO.

Our Lady of Loreto, the oldest mission in the province, was founded by the Jesuits in 1684
[1], not far from the Mamore and quite apart from the site it occupies today. Composite Indians
who speak the dialects of moxa, had in 1691 three thousand eight hundred twenty souls. Having
moved in the different times it has been definitely established, after the expulsion of the Jesuits,
between the rivers Tico é Ivari, distant ten leagues the reunion
of the latter river with the arm of the Mamore, and within a beautiful
plain partly trimmed trees, but too wet in summer.

Built like the
other missions Moxos, Loreto has a vast and beautiful church, and
a chapel attached to the exterior, near the cemetery. In countries
where people content themselves with wild fruits, it seems very rare
to find tree plantations fruit, as in this population, which has a
beautiful garden in which there are guaporus, guyavos, custard apples
and other bushes covered with flowers more colorful.
I won't be bullied into helping you."

"Give it to him, Pewee," said Ben Berry; "he's too sassy."

Pewee was a rather good-natured dog--he had to be set on. He now began to strike at Jack. Whether
he was to be killed or not, Jack did not know, but he was resolved not to submit to the bully.
Yet he could not do much at defence against Pewee's hard fists. This troupe of musicians, followed by the people,
stops to pray before the shrines that adorn the four corners of the square.

In 1830, the population of Concepcion was composed of three thousand one hundred twenty-six individuals
and was divided into twenty sections, or bias, whose names are: Gimoboconos, Hompaceboconos,
Write to us, Tirajabanos, Nipocenos, Coriceboconos, Choyinobenos, Itapimuyiros, Taramuinos, Chaquionos,
Muchogeonos, Choromonos, Cabiripoyanos, Abejanos, Arayamanos, Amoriciboconos,
Paresabanos, Paromoconos, Abenbanos, Joboconos.

Road to Carmen Concepcion.

Cuéntanse fifteen leagues from the Carmen Concepcion, which is towards the the south, or if
you like, two days of sailing, climbing canoeing on the White River is very deep, well boxed
and much wider than the Rio de San-Miguel, it has at least one hundred fifty yards from side
to side. Although little difference in appearance looks the same, its current is somewhat more
tortuous, and increases with the charge of streams that flow from the neighboring marshes. Its
banks are well-built manned the Baures a number of canoes, sufficient to carry out this expedition,
headed the indicated place, where they found hundreds of Indians, the rest of the nation Tapacura,
submitted by the Jesuits in Concepcion de Chiquitos, and taking with him willingly or by force hundred
individuals, together with ninety-five families Moxos Concepcion, the which composed a total
of three hundred fourteen Baures, creating the mixed population in this small town del Carmen. This was
first built near the banks of White River, about twelve miles southeast
of the site now occupied, but by unsafe site, was transferred in the
year of 1801 to the point where this exists.

The Tapacura it agreed readily to the customs of the missions, and soon they was so submissive to all
the same rules as Baures.

The population was composed of Carmen at the time of its foundation, of five hundred and fifteen
people; but having intermittent fevers prevented its accretion in 1801 was almost the same
notwithstanding that there were seventeen native who spent seventy years [1]. In 1815 there
were reached number sixty-six six hundred inhabitants in 1822, that of seven hundred and sixty
and eight, and in 1830, nine hundred and thirty-two.

      This figure is very low provided
      to the fertility of Indian women
      to stop almost every year, but three-quarters
                                  of children
                                   usually die on the eighth day of his birth.

This population was composed, in that year of 1830, the following indigenous

Quitemocas or Chapacuras. 340 Muchojeones. 230 Baures. 362 ----- 932

The Quitemocas, Chapacuras, or Tapacura have retained their original language, although they Baures
language use has become widespread in all missions Moxos East: the Muchojeones speak a dialect
slightly different from that of the Baures. All these natives are kind in extremity.

The population of Carmen is the most backward of all the province with respect to industry factory,
their very ordinary tected. Cocoa products also yield the most fruitful you should, because
of the great neglect with which it is grown. In the surrounding forests is reflected large number
of excellent vanilla.

In 1830, state farms were composed of three thousand six hundred animals, cattle, and three thousand
two hundred ninety-two horses. All located on the south plains of Carmen and on the bank of
the river San-Miguel, are also populated entirely earned savages and it is estimated that
the number should exceed ten thousand.

Major means of communication between the province and neighboring provinces Moxos.

Currently, the province announced Moxos, with the river Chiquitos San-Miguel, with Yuracare
and Cochabamba Chapare river, and also by the way practiced by me down Securi river, with Santa
Cruz de la Sierra in the rivers Grande and Piray. I shall give here a indication of these various
vehicles of communication.

Moxos Guarayos Walk to the river of San-Miguel.

Seven or eight days they used to be the country of the Carmen de Moxos
Guarayos, falling in canoe, about sixty leagues to the northwest,
by the river San-Miguel, the edges in Guarayos near present an extremely
varied.

On their own embankment is discover some virgin forests, and whose foliage of varying colors
stand Tufts Mambu bounds of canes or tacuaras, contrasting with the finely cut leaf of lambaibas,
or with the dark green of the palms palm fronds. Often find leaning trees on the water, and
which segments have arrived at angles falling take root, and natural caves formed a delightful appearance.
In the spring almost no tree that does not contain a nest made of neatly sum [1], and very often
present some bags fully covered slopes of the branches.

The course, entirely flat and even, is covered with black mulch, topsoil very fertile, which has not
been used yet, in spite of being efficacious in agriculture. On the second day of sailing is found
on the right bank of a small hill of sandstone of a former geologic age, past the hill, still populated
plain always wooded. Although the river is narrow, the riverbed, which everywhere is well boxed,
is deep enough to lend at all times to the navigation of large boats, ships or steam. Its
first manned banks, starting from Trinidad, of colorful Mambu, populating
go little by little of various trees, which somehow disappear the
fifth day to near the confluence of Huacaria.

This river, known among the inhabitants Moxos under the name of Black River, the color of its waters,
a large lake low located between the Ascension and Trinity Guarayos, and then runs parallel
to the current San-Miguel, removed by some leagues from each other. The Huacaria receive in
transit, that is one of degree and a half, more or less, a myriad of streams that descend from
the east.

The traveler who comes to put your plant on virgin soil almost entirely, try a satisfacion that
will never have the idea that they have not left the inhabited places. Animals jungle, Agen
still the fear that should inspire the presence of man, far to get in unless you see for the first
time, seem rather out to meet him as attracted by curiosity, so in
those places, wherever he goes the traveler, discovers the wandering
herds of wild boar, deer, large animals, to two troops of monkeys
of various species [1], walking happy frolicking in the trees, and
stop for a moment full of admiration, to jump and make grimaces and
then more strange and ludicrous contortions, while in all forests
constantly resounds the din of birds of various sizes and colors.

As the road ahead, the slopes of the San-Miguel are decreasing elevation, and forests on both
banks, as it had in the beginning of one to two miles wide, going closer and closer until only the
edges to trim the river, finishing Finally, on the right bank at a point where it opens a spacious
plain and totally drowned: this place is the Puerto del Carmen, distant seven leagues from the mission,
which in Dry time is on horseback, through the gap between the rivers Blanco and San-Miguel; but
in the rainy season this road crossing is primarily a marsh by canoe, Throw in a league until
a boscage which extends parallel to the river San-Miguel. Departing from this boscage, it enters
another that is bathed three leagues wide, and which goes on horseback, although in some Parages
usually get the water to animal encounters: the ends dipped in the river of San-Francisco,
which is necessary pass in canoe at once through a meadow, then a forest, beyond which there
a farm for raising horses. The rest of the way from this point to the mission Carmen is the
town of palm trees and other plants carondais.

Yuracares Moxos Road to the Chapare river.

From the port of Loreto was first walking a mile, crossing in a canoe leading to the river bathed
Mamore, whose slopes, very high in dry weather, are trimmed spacious
forest.

At the end of the first day is high on a sandbar, or if you want in the forests of the bank.

The next day, the Mamore shown less wide but much more boxed: a few hours gear is reached at
the confluence of the rivers Sara [1], which is simply, as I have had the chance to check it, a continuation
of the rivers Grande and Piray together, which have their headwaters in the departments of Chuquisaca,
Cochabamba and Santa Cruz. When traveling to Santa-Cruz de la Sierra, Sara takes the river, but heading
for Cochabamba to continue forever by the Mamore which is much more plentiful, and still preserves
above the confluence, the width majestic and pristine waves.

The river runs Sara Meanwhile rogizas constantly being murky waters.

In the middle of the third day we reach the confluence of the Rio Chapare, thus leaving The Mamore
is followed by the new trend, which is much narrower, but its banks, in Instead of being trimmed
of those modern boscages growing on terromonteros are populated forests as old as the world.
The riverbed of Chapare, firmer than that of Mamore is too deep and fairly well boxed, its waters
are always kept clear, and take the dark green hue of the trees that adorn so many. On the
banks left side shows then the mouth of a river which the Indians have given the name Santa Rosa:
it is believed that this river, whose gentle stream has a black sheen, lose one lagoon which is located
six miles from that point on a great plain, where they lived, to
the arrival of the Jesuits, Moxos tribes with which it has formed
the Mission San Xavier.

On the fourth day's journey, the jungles of the Chapare banks will increasingly high up but,
being composed entirely of ancient trees, until just now coming to discover the small part of heaven
for the deep furrow along the river in the middle of that perennial sea of ​​greenery. From time to
time distracting the attention of the traveler, who travels amazed by this stunning solitude,
the sharp cries of monkeys of various species and the confused clamor of the multitude of birds
of varied plumage, however, transit this place is usually very uncomfortable, rarely stops raining
it in abundance. Cowhide leather, which form the awnings under which the travelers take shelter,
get so corrupted to the continuous action of moisture and air so hot that and constantly locked
up, exhaling a bad odor unbearable, almost the same is true corned beef (the only provision of
mouth that takes in these expeditions) that is altered to be unusable.

In

the space that runs on the fifth day, there are two species of palms [1], unknown in Moxos. In the
afternoon, begin to appear in the vagueness of the horizon the peaks of the Cordillera, which soon
disappear behind the huge forests, after having comforted the poor traveler changing the monotony
of the landscaping.

On the seventh day, the uniform looks great about this place, among whom are still vogando slowly,
embellishes more and more as they come on the road, and vegetation appears much more varied,
meanwhile, scarcely down from time to time some rays sun by the dense clouds that overcast the
air constantly, often download torrents of rain, a circumstance which, combined with the excessive
heat of the area, determined this wonderful activity that develops
all the plants, full of vigor and freshness.

At the same time the woods holds the beautiful foliage of a large number of palms new and different
species, which are distinguished the palm of vinte vineyard and fishing. The river meanwhile appears
more narrow, and its banks are warning of some other plants, as the
rods and the smooth, whitish whose leaves stand out against the dark
background of the dark boscage.

At night the eighth day of sailing, and are noted on the first beach pebbles often rejoice in
this fact the Indians moxeños extremity, not only because she is a harbinger of the proximity
of the land of the Yuracares, but also by the novelty because they view an object entirely unknown
to them, because as already I said, not in the province of Moxos the smallest flint, for which reason
being pebbles a real find, collect, either to make fire, either by mere curiosity, with the
same importance would pick up stones. Whenever a new object hurts our senses, a satisfaction
point experiments, an inexplicable happy: thus natural ecstasy Moxos is contemplating the rocks,
as an inhabitant of the Mountains are encouraged at the sight of the beautiful trees, feels like a
joy unknown Cruceño in the presence of rocks. At the same time widen the beaches, the mountains
seem closer and closer, and the banks are manifested entirely covered, so soon vejucos tinged with
yellow and purple flowers and as soon countless palm trees, vanilla and other aromatic plants
such trees as soon as strangers, whose tops, fully stripped of foliage, contain only the most showy
purplish flowers. All places where it travels in the day, offered to the admiration of the traveler
a great set wonders. Meanwhile, only the next morning is a sight of confluence of the rivers Coni
and San-Mateo, whose reunion is formed Chapare River: the flow of this is fast at this point
and carries stone from some volume. The San-Mateo river runs noisily over a rocky bed and between
magnificent boscages, but to go to Yuracares rides the Coni river is less significant and mostly
shallow. Steamers of all sizes can navigate without hindrance by the Chapare, just the mouth
of two rivers that give origin. When you enter into the navigation of those rivers, and direct
traffic trade of these regions to Europe this point, which is sheltered from the floods, may
serve advantageously for the establishment of a port, where the fruits will be shipped from
from the mountains to the northeast of Cochabamba and Valle Grande.

The rise in the rio Coni is quite laborious, because we must fight
against a current sometimes very fast, and save some rapids often
covered with pebbles in the meantime the spectacle presented by the
banks is the same, impressive at the same time smiling.

Finally, the eleven days of travel is high on the left bank, and throwing foot earth to walk
three miles through the woods more beautiful in the world, following the course a narrow path leading
to the small town of Ascension Isiboro belonging the country of the Yuracares.

Yuracares Road to Moxos, by the river Securi.

When in the year 1832 I decided to open a new way of communication
between the country of Yuracares and Moxos province, began my journey
by following ITINERARY.

First lower Moleto the river, where I embarked in a canoe which I
had had built for this purpose.

The waters of this river were very low, and stumbled at every step in addition to the rapids
it is full, for which reason we use three days to arrive at the confluence of the rivers Icho far only
three leagues. Tucked almost always in the water to drag the canoe and entirely bare during
the day we were tormented by venomous bites the gnats who were displaced by swarms of mosquitoes
at night bitterest yet. My journey companions complained with good reason, and only the example
of my resignation and my constant cooperation could work to give the mind to forward. In this
interval, the river receives Moleto the eastern waters the Ipuchi, and by those of western
rivers and Eñesama Solotosama [1], which run between low hills, most prominent towards the
west. These hills are but the latest slopes of the Cordillera.

At the confluence of two rivers that form the river Securi, water depth and widen is greater,
however, to navigate in large boats, they need to be they of shallow. We find here some Indians
engaged in fishing, which were determined to watch: soon advising us to stop, they showed us
behind some brambles the left bank of a path that we could not discover
from the stream.

Encaminándonos by him, are in the middle of a forest, a quarter of a mile away, a few houses that
had a high floor, building for the place itself seemed very wet. Hoping to get some bananas
and cassava roots, the only provisions that found in uncivilized places, I moved since then into
one of those houses recently abandoned by their inhabitants, who had transferred ten miles to
the west, fleeing a disease that according to them existed in the hamlet. The next day, at little
more than the eleven, seeing that even the commissioners did not return had gone in search
of food, I decided return to the river to embark and continue my journey, but soon my three
Indians to reach after me with some supplies. Immediately we started leaving the country of
vogando the Yuracarés and resolutely towards unknown regions.

In the space of a league we had to save some shoals, and after leaving trim back a tree island,
we found the river and completely open and unencumbered. Then I came to know it would be very easy
navigation of this current, even for steam vessels. This point, which are the most fertile land
that could be found, I found very helpful for the establishment of a port to open on arrival
commercial communications with the province of Moxos.

The river abounds in fish: increasingly casting our hooks, without losing time in pairs took
out huge fish, among which were distinguished mainly belonging to the family of siluroides, and
also the many pacus, fish of the most exquisite of America [1]. Day Next, after having avoided
some piles of logs blocking the road in some spot, the river was widened gradually, and its depth
became greater: gnats disappeared, the palms vines were more rare, until they were replaced by
palms palm fronds. Each bank of sand covered saw skimmers, gulls and Caprimulgus, which nest on
the beaches, simply by depositing their eggs on the sand.

Slowly the days succeeded each by frequent stops to my rowers, the that in spite of the influence
that I had come to take upon them, often jumping to the ground, not wanting to obey, to chase
through the woods, and flocks of turkeys the mountain, and the boar, and a troop of large Marimon,
who understand the damage Agen our meeting seemed to go merrily jumping over the trees, until
a EXPERIENCE late and painful taught to distrust the man.

Meanwhile, the banks were constantly encouraged by all sorts of wild animals, that came out
of the woods to frolic on the beach or on the trees of the hillsides. Very Often a large beast,
suddenly surprised with our arrival, he would abruptly in flight, sometimes a capybara, sliding
with alacrity to the gorge, was hiding in the water further, a deer asleep, waking up early,
ran about among the forest from time to time turning his head to examine it again. Occasionally
also heard at the distance the roar of the tiger

.
 Year by year he grew more and more severe--he whipped for poor lessons,
he whipped for speaking in school, he took down his switch for not speaking loud enough in
class, he whipped for coming late to school, he whipped because a scholar made a noise with
his feet, and he whipped because he himself had eaten something unwholesome for his breakfast.
The brutality of a master produces like qualities in scholars. The boys drew caricatures on
the blackboard, put living cats or dead ones into Mr. Ball's desk, and tried to drive him wild
by their many devices.

He would walk up and down the school-room seeking a victim, and he had as much pleasure in
beating a girl or a little boy as in punishing an overgrown fellow.

And yet I cannot say that Mr. Ball was impartial. There were some pupils that escaped. Susan
Lanham was not punished, because her father, Dr. Lanham, was a very influential man in the
town; and the faults of Henry Weathervane and his sister were always overlooked after their
father became a school trustee.

Many efforts had been made to put a new master into the school. But Mr. Ball's brother-in-law
was one of the principal merchants in the place, and the old man had had the school so long
that it seemed like robbery to deprive him of it. It had come, in some sort, to belong to him. All these Indians begins the day with a swim, and scratch the day are already underway:
the top to make about eight for lunch, and before going any further take a second bathroom.
At noon they stop again for an hour for lunch, and then navigate until evening. When the traveler
is a personage of distinction, send administrators a canoe loaded with food, where food is
prepared hours to rule without detensiones waste time. In all traffic Indians play their tasks
with greater heat as possible and not given an idea of ​​the lengthy care that cater to travelers,
while always alert to guess and to prevent their children wishes.

When you have to climb a river, usually go from eight to ten miles per day, and when Vogue downstream
is usually double this distance, but this depends on the varying speed current, variable in each
river, and also of the rowers, whose skill and activity not all parts are of equal rank. Each
nation has its particular way of paddling: the Itonama will sit and paddle with lots of precipitation;
the Cayuvava, also seated row slowly but forcefully, while the Baures remain standing as if more
Drive to the oars. Of all these nations the Cayuvava are more famous rowers, and try to preserve
their reputation, striving to excel in speed to all vessels foreigners who are on their way.
These natives have a habit of bathing three times a day when they go on journey, to practice, they stop
suddenly, thrown into the water, dive and return, to peel his shirt dress, then continued walking.
All Once Moxos come to bathe, teach their backs covered with scars that appear to burns, and which
are simply the result of the flogging of Holy Week. Among them manifest themselves proud of
carrying such signs on their bodies, mocking with certain irony for those who do not.

When the weather is beautiful, the heat which prevails to this noon in the narrow callegon
formed by flakes and ancient trees that adorn the banks of rivers,
never come to be tempered by the slightest breeze and passengers,
the traveler then throwing less vivifying air of the past week, want
the night with impatience, but as soon as This involves land, dense
vapors rising from the river, and is a very wet morning as if it had
rained all night tough.

When it rains during the day with no storm, leaving thousands of mosquitoes forests, and taking
refuge in canoes, torture to the poor travelers, who too suffer such discomfort at night. If
time becomes extremely bad, the Indians built a hut haste cane under which the travelers to
get insured against the torrents of rain, and if this continues, They also built for spacious
cabins, so that in a few moments becomes camp in a hamlet where many days remain until the
wind subsides. The waves that promote strong winds in the large rivers are not, as we have said,
the only danger to which the traveler is nswer passing through those places. Sandy gullies derrepente
usually subside over the water, dragging down one of the giant trees that stand on the banks,
whose roots are huge behind a huge mass of land. If all this debris falling by chance on fragile
boat, make it disappear completely, but when this happens, would be sufficient to make waves
capsized the projection, which excite such collapses within waves.

Sometimes up rivers in the rainy season, the Indian venture to go through among the arms that
form the islands, where the current is less evident fast, however, these arms are often found
in their shots blocked by thick trunks that have piled up the waters, if the rowers trying to
save the way they get by small narrow where the current is very impetuous, tangle the canoe
through the branches, and is filled water at a time: just alarmed are cast into the river
course, and I swam, and Bolivia on the branches, holding the boat without sinking, until they
reach their assistance in the other canoes.
 Said they would kill me if I told on them."

This he passed to Jack, who sat next to him. Fortunately the current government
apply now by far attempted to improve these roads, anxious to give greater impulsion to trade. Have
renewed some old ones, and open a new one hase of twenty leagues, ranging from Apollo to Guanay.

Meanwhile,
personal charges weighing on the Indians of the interior, as required
are to replace the beasts of burden, transporting on their backs and
very long distances all kinds of goods are undoubtedly the cause that
makes it late advancement trade in those regions, crippling the very
desire to reap the fruits nature spontaneously offers everywhere.

Improvements, agricultural, industrial and commercial center of the province is susceptible.

This chapter should be very long, on account of the varied terrain
and the various offshore areas than is in the province, but as I have
to consider, when talking about Moxos the question concerning the
warm plains and in the Yungas section regarding to the forested mountains,
warm and temperate, as well as that of La-Paz with respect to the
lofty plains and mountains bare and sterile, I refer to these various
provinces for indication of the best that are common to Caupolican,
siéndome allowed appreciate them much more success in those places,
since I've picked myself them very lengthy notes on the subject.

I shall therefore, for now, only those significant changes, which
seem to me most special to the province of Caupolican.

Just seen that today, in spite of the abundance of grasses eSCelente making the nature on the
heights of Pelechuco, near Pata, Santa-Cruz de Valle Ameno, Apollo and Aten, in spite of the
profusion offered to the plains of the inland districts, fresh meat and dried meat are among the
items of import trade.

If you promote the breeding of cattle, it is clear that instead of receiving the exterior, he would
become an important branch of trade out: The same would happen with
the herds sheep, which can multiply to supply to both their meat and
wool in abundance.

Equal proportion increasing by horses and mules, was significantly activated exportation of
fruits, contributing to this in the increase of the income the province and to the cessation of the
painful and degrading servitude of the Indians today Abbe inside, as they are forced to go to remote
points by the office of the beasts; freed from such a charge these
poor, then their days would use in working the land, or simply to
harvest the natural productions of the country, without which they
are entitled fair enough fear that forced them to dispose of before.

The vast extent of the inland plains Moxos serious as in the breeding center of any species of cattle,
they would move to fully look after a few years covering thousands of cows and horses. With
the possession of these, you would see the government of Bolivia gorging resourced to his army
resources that are quite distant possess the republics of Chile and Peru.

Moreover, the application to look beautiful dresses animal skins, such as the Marimonos black
and red, would not fail to produce large profits, just as conservation of large-animal skins,
which would become tanning hides the most suitable for car harnesses,
shall we say the same of the skin of the deer, that is so elastic
and soft as chamois leather, which the gloves manufactured in Europe
most esteemed, or more comfortable shoes.

Turtle eggs found on the banks of the Beni, Darien, through preparation used in the banks of the
Orinoco, the great turtle butter, one of the elements of the indigenous cuisine.

Having unparalleled abundance of fish found in the Beni River and its tributaries, points could
be brought about some fishing in all rules, then by keeping salting out her products, so as
to come to create a new and very important branch of exportation, which would not fail to be
estimated, especially in populations High Plains, as the cities of Oruro, La-Paz, etc.

The vegetation is what primarily offers significant improvements.

As soon as industry city ​​takeover of the natural products of the interior, they will be filled
the malls of the most beautiful woods for cabinet, thus benefiting vast forests covering the
mountains and plains.

The box, now so scarce and so expensive in Europe, and you can not get large plates, he would
be replaced by those yellow wood, very abundant in those regions, and, besides being so strong
and compact as this, have the advantage of providing sheets of all sizes to recorders.

As to the drainers, not only would bring them trade their exquisite
coconut and rich wood cabinetry, but also its very useful to the oil
industry, as it would take advantage of almond Cavina.

Massive benefits would be obtained to look carefully and supplies various resins, especially copal,
which is the first element of the most beautiful varnish that was made in Europe.

The importance of rubber, used in Europe for the manufacture of various items such as corsets,
garters and braces or suspenders, is increased day to day, being the most important branch of
trade and industry of the inhabitants of Para, which are exclusively
devoted to his great culture, what deterrent is there for the rich
province of Caupolican can not do the same, being also possesses this
plant?

The scale, which for some years has given millions to trade, even
when not exhausted.

Until today only has practiced cut near inhabited areas, and much sludge mind the strategic
sites where they are.

According to reports I could gather, the Indians dedicated to this task are scattered through
the mountains, and so isolated one by one in the woods, cut the precious plant without any
kind of precautions without choosing the station even more appropriate to the case. Parag also devoid
where to put it in storage and covered against the frequent rains, often befalls the completely
ruin their stockpiles, or to see them largely damaged. As obvious as the harvest of the husk
is destined to be one of the safest classes of income State, would
agree that the authorities much rules the way to practice cutting,
dictating to do certain ordinances, whose main object was to put an
end to the destruction that spreads and spreads everywhere, leaving
the trail marked on some of its transit with the total absence of
trees that the hand of nature had planted.

The need to conserve its timber, woodworking and even those who are destined to serve as firewood,
forced to France, long ago, to create the Management Forests, which aims to cut abuses of
all kinds in order to conserve resources for the future. Time is now also to Bolivia, where he still
belongs to the state of half of the land, try to create a vigilant and active body that has
under his charge;

1, People of European trees such as spruce, birch or poplar, etc., Mountains adjacent to La-Paz,
Chuquisaca and Potosi, in order to provide to these great cities of firewood timber and joinery;

2
° prohibit, subject to more stringent penalties, clearing by fire, thus preventing to stop
the clouds gathered strength day by day the lack of moisture, and thus to deprive the fields of
natural irrigation, making them sterile, or let the rain rushing,
taking free passage, start and drag on the high topsoil, which was
followed naked and barren rocks in places where the trees grew more
beautiful;

3 ° Do the Indians pull up instead of cutting the bushes
that provide firewood and coal, so they can take these back to shoot,
having, moreover, that the courts are affected by successive boards,
which prevent the complete destruction is already done feeling on
many points where they grow woody plants

EXTRACTION 4 ° Practicing
the big scale, but according to certain ordinances, and setting primarily
the more favorable season, so while we may enjoy in all the product
of the annual harvest, may always kept this plant the future.

Meanwhile, the most effective measures that I feel obliged to state for conservation regular and
beneficiation of this important branch of the treasury entries are as follows.

1 st Can the government of the republic in Europe to recruit an employee of Forests, intelligent
and versed in the use and application of improvements on the subject,
to entrust the inspection forests overall scale, which moved from
one point to another monitor and direct subordinate employees to continually
placed in each province.

2 ª The junior employee will be responsible for ordering and directing
the EXTRACTION of hulls in each of the parishes of the province.

For the harvest is done with perfection due, it is necessary to start from then on open road leading
to all the valleys where this plant is grown, then dividing the territory into ten sections,
for example, To only benefits a year, thus giving time to the others to return to populated for
when their turn.

3rd Harvest should take place only in the months of June, July and August, when stems are in
a more perfect state of maturity, and when the plant contains Most sap, without the fear that comes
to cutting dry accordingly.

4 th is a need to start in each parish to the operation of the court, drawing primarily a path
of extraction, and building one or many barracks in the center of the section that benefits,
for laborers can be dispersed in these sotechados depositing the daily intake of their tasks,
and make it dry there husks without accidents complete breakdowns or failure.

5 th order not to destroy the bushes to make the cuts will be necessary to choose when most seasoning,
and cut a little above the roots, drawing on billhooks; after taking the precaution, if the strain
does not cast forth suckers, leaving some plants in reserve Here and there, which again planted
and naturally their surroundings, in the course ten years between
each cut of the section.

If the Bolivian government enact measures similar to those taken in France to the regular court
State forest, it is clear that never would see the need to suspend scale crops, for that today
employs to prevent the total destruction of this specific. Every year substantial proceeds
would be collected and better: these products always retain the same
value, in view of lowering of stroke, as when the court left to the
discretion and discretion of the natives is practiced with such disorder,
would seem better, with such abandon, that stockpiles Overcharging
factories and then European markets, causing them to stop hand crops
in general, for some years.

Finally, for trade in the expanse take a convenient scale, so that
can, to be more durable, produce the incalculable advantages of being
capable under good administration, it would be necessary that the
Government institute a severe and well-regulated regime about crops
and trying to establish the Bank as soon as rescue projected which
depends on the regularization of this trade on the stranger.

The second branch of the trade in the province, which also can receive a huge expanse, is undoubtedly
cocoa. It has been found near the interior villages San-Jose, Tumupaza of Isiamas and Cavinas,
forests are populated Cacahual providing very abundant crops annually,
that are ignored by non-indigenous be forced to transporting your
product on their backs.

Suffice to put an end to this state of affairs, to abolish slavery of course the staff, and
established in every parish, trade is private factories, offices will be given to the Indians,
government has a fair value instead of kilos of cacao that they could collect. In addition, families
making certain needs that have not known, it is awaken among these Indians the desire to acquire
the means to the satisfaction of those, striving by this means to
not dispose of these products and of such immense value, which each
year serve only for the gift of the animals of the forest.

Although the province Caupolican could give rise to the culture of coca, without by this and
this, is by the way, never to compete with the provinces of the Yungas and Dolls; although
it would be possible to promote the cultivation of rice, coffee, maize and snuff, and engage in
the working of the gold mines that abound in the mountains, drawing from Speculators including not
a few advantages, but also would be possible to use cotton, applying to the manufacturing industry
to supply its inhabitants dress gender, I think These commercial and industrial classes should
be of secondary order in the province.

For each of the various parts of a territory the maximum yield of their products so that trade has an interest
there, especially prone, it is necessary to the detriment other business classes, without an end
to an amplitude which can produce with less work fat more useful,
especially when no nearby competition.

In the final analysis, say that encouraging exclusively in the province of Caupolican, by a culture
part of the husk in the mountains, another of the cocoa in the plains, two single fruit which
have a useful general interest to the Republic, by the extent they can receive in trade, it
would have given the good and advancement of the other provinces on the high plains, giving more room
for the release of its industry products particular, whether only manufacturing and agriculture.
In this way would also Caupolicanos a free field to engage with encouragement to the regular
and orderly harvest of the husk, and to the abundant and active cocoa.

If possible final quartering products by province, leaving, for example, industry to the high plains
of Bolivia, in the departments of La-Paz, Oruro and Potosí the manufacture
of wool and the breeding of sheep, to the provinces of Moxos babes
and cotton fabrics, to the provinces of the Yungas and growing Dolls
coca, to the temperate valleys of Sicasica of Apupaya, Cochabamba
and Chuquisaca the wheat planting, promotion of silk worms and the
planting of vines to Santa-Cruz de la Sierra, and to Chiquitos Moxos
to raising all kinds of cattle and sugar cane cultivation sugar, and
finally to the scale and Caupolican Cacahual is forcing, so to speak
well, to their respective inhabitants to internal traffic, exportation
or mutual trade, which would do spread everywhere, while the wealth
of the fertile germs civilization.

European states have need for this kind of reciprocal trade, to use every a special productions.
In this regard, and in comparison to the small to big, the highest commercial future issues
may apply to the Republic of Bolivia; presenting it in its various provinces all areas, all
temperaments, and may lead to the promotion of industry produce all that other peoples and countries
of the world.

Meanwhile, the first step to be taken for the advancement and improvement of the province of Caupolican,
and to make her readily acquire the degree of commercial importance to which it is intended, is
the establishment of channels of communication with the provinces
the interior, and also that of women who must mediate between the
various points inhabited.

Is easy to open on every mountain trails not much cost to the transit of mules because the stones
(the most accurate material) are at hand, not so demanding other conservation of these methods
but a slight care. In places where it has established this, over a considerable space of miles,
the abominable system of palisades or log crossing, it could build roads or stone embankments, and to
prevent that drains these to the continuous passage of beasts, to fill with rain water, give a
convex shape and open a small ditch on each side for those spills, as practiced in the construction
of highways across Europe.

These paths indicate not need an excessive width, and therefore does not require great expense,
to more of this, the imposition of a Peage right, nothing burdensome for their reasonableness
bystanders, would cover anticipated expenditures easily from the Government. Engineers in the
field of bridges and roads, currently practicing in the Republic, may moreover, in view of local
resources, take over the most economic means as may be necessary to establish as soon as possible,
with the cooperation and goodwill of the Indians, these vias communication, the only means of
stimulating trade v industry, and civilization turn of the province.

Caupolican in this respect is perhaps the most favored of all the provinces of Bolivia, is crossed
by navigable rivers of the usefulness and importance seems not to do the least attention.
How is it possible to believe, for example, that since ancient times
(more than sixty years) is being done to carry on the shoulders of
the unfortunate Indians, by the excessive firing of fifty or sixty
leagues, to the capital of the province, all the fruits of the inland
towns of Ysiamas of Tumupaza and Saint-Joseph, being so easy to ship
them and pass them up by the Rio-Beni to a point not far from Apollo?

Or as will be credible that, having at his disposal a vehicle of such importance, a river as
mighty as the Beni, no use is made up this, to go from Ysiamas to Cavinas, but petty rafts,
while account more than a century and a half since that Moxos sailing in canoes? It is therefore
very unlikely that such Caupolican backward state in even relatively to the neighboring provinces,
not from not checked lack of business relationships.

And actually going to talk about the province Caupolican, to a Potosino for example, is dealing
with a thing that only you know the name, known as those of China and Turkey, but not for the
world is after him there passed.

With media navigation as simple as you can imagine what will become Cavinas, Ysiamas and Tumupaza
when sailing vessels or steam transport their products, in quantities the more weight you will,
both to near the river Tuyche Apollo, as to a short La-Paz shot by rivers and Bogpi Mocetenes. It
suffices, however, to cease from then the sad servitude of the Indians to engage in the navigation
of boats, but so that The construction of these were comfortable and not expensive, it would need
the government to do intelligent men come from Europe in art, in order that, saving unnecessary
costs, could lead to the natives in the building, the weapons and how to make use of such vessels.
Without this precaution, the inexperience of the people can still
slow, long, the execution of a measure that is of prime necessity
for improving the province.

I could say a word here about the benefits that are reserved to the province with the navigation
of the river Beni to the Amazon, down then up the sea to make his way to Europe, but, as I have
to touch this point when discussing the province Moxos, which is also crossed by the river Beni,
then let the exposition and examination of important issues.

Réstame talk about some other improvements necessary to the welfare
of the inhabitants of Caupolican.

The means to restore your health to the country, cutting off the evil caused by the cold of
South wind so deadly for the creatures of the inland towns, as well as the ravages caused by the
smallpox among the elderly, when the classrooms of Medicine Republic provide such a number of disciples
who can put the state in each province an optional fixed and paid enough so that the question of
the priests Ausilio to preserve the appalling infant mortality, and spread the application of
the vaccine, together with other health condoms.

Missionaries learned and zealous could also, with the support of the Government, take responsible
for the conversion of savages breeds found in the north and north-west of Tumupaza, Isiamas and
Cavinas, creating small towns, where these Indians took a liking to the benefits of social life,
thus contributing greatly to the general good of the country.

Currently, the immoderate use of spirits such as brandy, which in religious festivities to drink
too much, brings pecuniary ruin of indigenous the great deterioration of his health, and, therefore
indispensable, the disorder in customs.

Would be easy, however, remedy evils of this nature, imposing heavy rights to the introduction
of such harmful liquids, or taking any other measures his good sense dictates to the Government for
there is nothing so pitiful as to see how much damage excesses similar to social advancement, morally
and physically brutalizing those who are left dominated by them.


Will Riley and Ben Berry had the hardest time. For the most part they stayed at home during
the excitement, only slinking out in the evening. The boys nicknamed them "Gunpowder cowards,"
and wrote the words on the fences. Even the loafers about the street asked them whether Old
Ball had given them that whipping yet, and how they liked "powder and Ball."

CHAPTER XIII

PROFESSOR SUSAN

Mr. Ball did not let go easily. He had been engaged for the term, and he declared that he would
go on to the end of the term, if there should be nothing but empty benches. In truth, he and
his partisans hoped that the storm would blow over and the old man be allowed to go on teaching
and thrashing as heretofore. He had a great advantage in that he had been trained in all the
common branches better than most masters, and was regarded as a miracle of skill in arithmetical
calculations. He even knew how to survey land.

Jack was much disappointed to miss his winter's schooling, and there was no probability that
he would be able to attend school again. He went on as best he could at home, but he stuck
fast on some difficult problems in the middle of the arithmetic. 

Style, language, versification, like German there is no shock, and not sure that is a paragon
Faust. We speak of the disposition of the fable and characters.

Imagine, for a moment that Faust sees Marguerite and feel in love with her before to rejuvenate,
that for the sake of Margarita, a pair of ambition and desire of pleasures makes the covenant;
what then happens, it happens the same way, and after the cruel death of Margarita, Faust cries,
repent, do penance, mocking Mephistopheles and goes to heaven. So the legend would have it
all in a single tragedy and not two. The work thus regularly win and unity, but lost in grandeur.
It was necessary, therefore, that the love of a woman by cute and innocent it was, would not the
main reason that wise as large as Faust devilish that way. And it was necessary that the first
tragedy and should give presuppose things and prepare the second, leaving not a few loose
ends related then each other. Do not we look now at these ends.

Isolated the fable of the loves of Faust and Marguerite, disposition and development deserve more
praise than censure. Faust, with all the ardor and impetuosity of his youth renewed passion the simple
and beautiful girl, and want to achieve soon, without hindrance or daunt him reflect on bad
consequences. Mephistopheles, out of the jewelry takes this to Margarita, just uses more resources
to aid seduction, which could be used a list of our old servant swashbuckling comedy. That
is how it should. If Fausto love that inspires some artifice or prestige intervene diabolical
beauty this love, most of his poetry, and even further under, redeeming and sanctifying would
vanish. The birth of this love unfold and reach its climax in the soul Margarita innocent, are
made merely human, profoundly observed in reality and then with higher beauty expressed in
the dramatic fiction. The simplicity and naturalness language and the precision and concision
of Goethe's style, where no strike, where there redundancy, or vain pomp, nor false and overloaded
lyricism, giving everything he says Margarita seductive charm. This charm is the mystery of Margaret,
from the opening scenes, purchase such a life and stand out with such truth of the picture and the
soul of a poet who creates, who has self, and is recorded in a wide indelible memory as if it had
existed.

His mother does not appear. Goethe has the good sense not dejárnosla see, but his mother exists.
Not like in our old comedies, where there is almost never a mother. Instead of the mother puts
the poet to a very funny, and well characterized: a neighbor, and years, vulgar, fond of talking,
devoted false, and other bad qualities that make it suitable for mediate any gallant intrigue.
Mephistopheles dialogs with Martha, that's the name this woman, have great comic force: now when
Mephistopheles brings the news of Martha death of her husband, now when the compliment and
love. How the Greenbank Academy grows!" laughed Susan, turning to her father.

Bob was afraid of Susan at first--his large fingers trembled so much that he had trouble to
use his slate-pencil. Not a speck left Tablanca Rogue. Particularly
Facia, which was his sencillota and noble, had been wasted. Spent necklaces of all colors, rings,
and alfilerones espejucos of all makes, a lot of money: all the savings of its soldiers and
more than requested account, courageously facing the indignities apostrophized with the master.
For those craving was insatiable and he boldly inconceivable in shortly before, so modest, courteous
and respectful girl, flowed from a "I do not know a bad one" as a curse, and that "pulling the
pulling" against his taste to store trinkets, and particularly to the graces of baratijero.
As he had noted the inclination and she was (no offense) the best girl among the many and
very good they had in place, pulled the rogue and chicoleos flattery, and even the haunted house at
night and sang a few songs 'fine' to the sound of a guitar "that properly speaking between
his hands. " In short, the innocent ewe came to click with such terms Sorcerer's lover, only
she was a bit of trial, the purely essential to respond in one of his most obstinate sieges,
that "being like God sent and in front of the Church and to live in Tablanca to the side of
his master, when would see fit. "
 But when he found that Greenbank really was
awake, and not just talking in its sleep, as it did for the most part, he changed sides,--not
all at once, but by degrees. At first he softened down a little, "hemmed and hawed," as folks
say. He said he did not know but that Mr. Ball had been hasty, but he meant well. The next
day he took another step, and said that the old master meant well, but he was often too hasty
in his temper. The next week he let himself down another peg in saying that "maybe" the old
man meant well, but he was altogether too hot in his temper for a school-master. A little while
later, he found out that Mr. Ball's way of teaching was quite out of date. Moreover, the very idea touring
America under such flattering auspices Alhague me greatly, and lit my ardent imagination, offering
pre-thousand pictures each as attractive. Merced to the benevolent advice of Messrs. Cuvier,
Brongniart, Cordier, Isidore Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire, and the famous traveler Baron de Humboldt, I was
given a glimpse of what would be the circle of my research. The natural sciences were the
main object, but seen as complementary indispensable geography, ethnology and history, I decided not
to discard anything, when were in those places, to bring me the most complete treasury of material
relating to these important branches of human knowledge.

On July 29, 1826 in Brest, I embarked on board of the Meuse, frigate of the State, and gave first to
my transatlantic pilgrimage. I stop in the Canaries, where for several days I study, in sight
of the famous peak of Teide, the productions of the island of Tenerife, and their ragged peaks.
Two months later we could see the coast of Brazil, and environment embalmed with the perfume
of a thousand flowers arrived and to me, making me like ineffable and sweet emotions. I was going
to throw after standing on the world of Columbus, on that ground wonders, as he had always
longed for exploration in the midst of the dreams of my childhood. Finally took a seat in America
for eight years.

The Rio de Janeiro with its mountains of granite and its beautiful and unspoiled forests was the
first theater of my explorations. Montevideo, Maldonado, and all the Eastern Republic of Uruguay,
busy So by the Brazilians, then showed me their fields, which are similar to those of France.
I went across the Banda Oriental to Buenos-Aires, and then I embarked on the Parana, to transporting
to the borders of the province of Paraguay, today declared an independent state. Subi as three
hundred and fifty leagues for this immense river, whose current is majestic hope that some day
will crisscrossed by hundreds of boats, which driven the steam will rise up Chiquitos, making
communication more immediate in Bolivia with Europe.

The waves of this mighty river, which has more than a mile wide, running
over a bed and innumerable islands whose shores are adorned with colorful
boscages, where the graceful entretege their foliage palm tree with
the most varied and beautiful.

I walked for a whole year all parts of the province of Corrientes and Misiones, and after having
entered the Gran-Chaco, turned around by the provinces of Entre Rios and Santa Fe. Back to Buenos-Aires,
I wanted to aim for a Chile or Bolivia, but calculating how difficult it would cross the continent
to be sure, by the turbulence, after the peace with Brazil, undermining that state, I decided
to go to Patagonia, land mysterious, whose name alone locked up then
I know not that magical.

I was transported for there to the end of 1826, and stayed there for eight months.

I made my first research with fairly calm, for it was the most painful go one of the most arid
country, and where water shortage is felt at every step in the heart of these monotonous and endless
deserts, but the Indians Puelches Aucas and Patagones unexpectedly revolted against the rising colony
of Carmen, located on the banks Black River, and I saw then compelled to meet its inhabitants to
cooperate to the defense common. Having returned for a second time to Buenos-Aires, I found
this country in such a complete anarchy, , recognizing the absolute impossibility of passing through
the pampas to Chile, took the game round Cape Horn. Upon my arrival to Valparaiso found also to
the republic Chilean in a state of agitation anything suitable for scientific voyages, and then
provided the recommendations of the consul general of France in this
State, I went to Bolivia, whose government should I expect a warm
welcome, and the means to continue my exploration mainland.

Cobija, Bolivia port, greeted me of course with the impressive appearance of the mountains the
crown. Shortly after I landed in Arica for beginning to my journeys by land. Leaving the coast
soon, I went to Tacna, and then began my ascension to the ridges on the road and Tacora Palca, but
instead of tripping over there with those steep and sharp ridges, which are figured on the
maps, I found myself on a very extensive plain, placed at a height of four thousand five hundred
yards above sea level, and which only became aware of a few moles here and there cloud-covered cone. Crossing
this exalted level, I came to meet then at the top of the chain of Chulluncayani. Contemplating
from there the very extensive extension that unfolded before my eyes, and so large variety of objects
that looks amounted to dominate the time, I savored a sense of indefinable admiration. It is true
that most picturesque landscaping are found in the Pyrenees and the Alps, but never saw these
look so great and so much majesty. Plain Bolivia, which has more than thirty miles wide, you dilated
at my feet by right and left out of sight, offering only small parallel ridges, which seemed to
fluctuate the ocean like ripples on the vast plain, where the north-west horizon and the Southeast
did not meet me to discover, while they looked towards the north shine above of the hills that
limited, some areas of the crystalline waters of the famous lake Titicaca, the mysterious home
of the children of the sun. On the other side of such a sublime set could see the severe symptoms,
which form the vast curtain of the Andes, interrupted with peaks acute, representing the exact
shape of a saw. Between these heights are raised the Guaina Potosi, Illimani and Sorata snowy
cone showing her oblique and flattened, these three giants of American forests, which are drawn
glowing snow, above the clouds in the dark blue background of the sky more transparent and
beautiful in the world. Towards North and South Eastern Cordillera is declining gradually until
completely lost on the horizon. If I had I felt full of admiration in the presence of Tacora,
here I was carried, and yet this was not only one of the faces in that picture, because back
towards the other hand, showed me a set of not less attractive. I discovered even the Chipicani,
the Tacora, and all the mountains of western plain, which had just transpose, and on which my
eyes had been arrested many times during the three days of my traffic of the Cordilleras.

I went to the Bolivian plains situated even at the height of four
thousand yards above sea level, and that is the most populated of
the republic.

I came to the city of La-Paz, the former Choquehapu (Gold country), named for its abundance
of this metal mines, gave the Aymara. This valley favored by the proximity of the Yungas, which is
three thousand seven hundred lifting beam, holds to the same time all the fruit markets of the
countries cold, the temperate and torrid zone. Immediately wrote to the government, forwarding my
letters of recommendation. In response he offered me his protection, and funds if needed, also
proposes a military officer and two youths to accompany me. Not wanting to abuse of such generous
offers, I accepted, with the greatest gratitude, only the last two and transportation facilities throughout
the republic, and from that moment, I considered and sure you can go with this beautiful and rich
fruit of the American continent.

Eager to see the province of Yungas, which they said to me many wonders,
dirijíme to Palca, and once placed on the summit of the Cordillera
Oriental, I was dazzled so by the majesty of the whole, which certainly
did not see but the vast extension without to realize the details.

It was no longer a snowy mountain that I thought to grab, no was a wide plain, cloudless and
without active vegetation .... Everything was different here. Turning towards the side of La-Paz
still sailing the arid mountains and the sky is always pure, typical the high plains. Everywhere,
at the level where I was, clad heights ice and snow, but what a contrast by the side of the
Yungas! Until five or six hundred yards below me, upholstered in green velvet mountains, and that seemed
reflected in clear skies and calm to this point, a border of white clouds, representing a vast
sea battering the flanks of the mountains, and above which rise to all highest peaks, appearing
islets. When the clouds parted, I discovered a unfathomable depth below this zone, the limit
of vegetation on, the green dark blue of the virgin forests that adorn everywhere so rugged
terrain. Full of joy at being surrounded by nature, so different from the one I had submitted
the western slopes and plains of the mountain, I want first to hide under this canopy of clouds,
a few moments to roam freely over the region of thunder.

I visited on Yanacachi, Chupi, Chulumani Irupana, etc., Alternately passing the riverbed to the top
of the mountains. The pompous vegetation of Rio de Janeiro you go away reproduced in these sites,
but with more splendor in a warm moisture encourages them even on the most rugged rocks, plants
prodigious.

After having studied in detail this province, so rich in production, followed by the same western
side, crossing uneven terrain, but rich in silver mines in the provinces of Sicasica and Ayupaya,
through Cajuata, Suri, Inquisivi, and Palca Cavaria to climb the mountain again east, where
my eyes fell suddenly, to a few thousand feet, on the rich valleys of Cochabamba and Clisa. What a singular
contrast with that of the cliffs where I was! It was the image of chaos next to the largest peace:
it was the nature sad and silent in the presence of more vibrant life. I saw it in the midst
of barren hills two extended plains cultivated and trimmed on all sides of huts and groves,
among which were distinguished large number of villages, and a great city to which we excel their
buildings as a queen among his vassals. Nothing can effectively compare to the sensation that
produces the appearance of these plains, covered with villages, plantations and culture, circumscribed
by a mountainous and barren nature, extending to more thirty leagues around the horizon lost confused.
One would think there's see promised land within the wilderness. If I ever tried had vivid
impressions presence of the beauties of that savage nature Boliviano great plain, and Eastern Cordillera,
where life does not fit all in all, it is nothing there regarding the man, they would not be
much higher, finding these places I animated, these buildings strewn plains, these rich fields
abound that aroused in my mind the image of my country!

Cochabamba and its surroundings were for a time the theater of my research, continuing then my
march towards the east, walked through a hundred miles of mountains quite dry, but cut of fertile
and deep valleys. During this journey I recognized on the provinces of Clisa, Mizque and the Valle
Grande, following the path of Punata, Pacon, Totora, Chaluani, Chilon, Pampa Grande and Samaypata
(the bench rest), the last inhabited place in the mountains of which only thirty leagues were
far from the fertile plains of the continental center.

Few days Later it was discovered, the top of the slope of Flask, the extended horizon of a flat hot
covered with forests, in whose center is granted the quiet town of Santa-Cruz-de-la-Sierra.

The study of this remarkable city and its contours occupied my attention for several months: past
them, I resolved to penetrate deeper in the lands inhabited. I was already as to three hundred
leagues from the sea, but also longing to know the pure populations Indians, I turned my place
on the east, towards the province of Chiquitos, atrevasando the Monte Grande, whose thick foliage
covers an area of ​​more than sixty leagues, where vain Guests will seek out other savage animals.

Chiquitos Province, placed in the center of the Americas, has over ten and eight thousand miles
in area, and being very fertile their land, it can be grown all the fruits of the hot countries,
while in the mountains of Santiago could sown wheat and planted vines. I visited on San-Javier, Concepcion,
San-Miguel, Santa Ana, San-Ignacio, San-Rafael, San-José and Santiago, and just came to find
on these mountains in the spring of those regions.

While the hot sun toasted the surrounding plains, some charities clouds perched on top of the
mountains, had operated a total change in the appearance of nature. The trees were covered in a
sweet variety of foliage and flowers, the countryside luxuriously deployed its exquisite ropages.
Absolutely nothing could compare the beautiful station in Europe to a certain moment in the
torrid zones.

In France, for example, the leaves are sprouting little by little, and the cold and lack of
beautiful days are often feel even after late spring. In places, this is but the change Suddenly
a decoration. Nature is dead, lifeless, a very pure sky field illuminates a sad and almost deserted,
but a downpour occurs, and to the point, as charm, all things take a new life. Requires only
a few days for glazing Meadows greenery and fragrant flowers, and trees coated with these tender
green leaves, or with the flowers that precede them, giving to each one of them a bright color and smooth.
If the countryside flaunting their beautiful carpet, embalmed the air with perfumes softer, forests
have less other non-flattering beauty and variety. Here a tree laden with long clusters purple
contrasts with the glasses, and sky, and the purest gold, there stands a snow-white summit
meeting to more tender pink. I climbed with much rejoicing by those slopes, where vegetables
are so beautiful façade, with its jewels, or walked the meadows without knowing which site to
give preference, as each of them offered me a charm it was particular, a different type. I confess
that I never felt so amazed in the presence of the beauties of the ground covered by a canopy so splendid.

Leaving
very soon the little town of Santiago, and through immense forests and the river of Tucabaca, probably
intended to deliver rich gold mines, arrived at Saint-Heart, which is the easternmost point
of the inhabited places of the republic. Holy Heart was actually end that part of the world because
no one could then spend more later. So Therefore, calculating the massive benefits that would
result from the navigation of the Paraguay to commercial traffic and to the civilization of
the province of Chiquitos, and longing to be the first instrument of this giant, picked up all
possible data of indigenous used to traverse the forests, and I open
a way towards the ruins of ancient Holy Heart, where the river runs
Oxuquis, consisting of rivers and Tucabaca San-Rafael, reaching to
make sure that the high steep banks of this stream could provide,
in all seasons port and comfortable hotel within walking distance
of the Paraguay River, which flows a bit above the fort of New-Coimbra.

In 1831, these important data communicated to the government of Bolivia, making him see the positive
change that for the province and the whole republic would result in a new way of communication,
by the Rio de la Plata, the Atlantic Ocean.

Eager to explore another point of Chiquitos, through beautiful forests in the mission I set San-Juan,
and returned at once to San-Javier, where I also said goodbye to departed the province, after
six months I had dedicated to his study.

Amid the vast and gloomy forests that separate the vast provinces of Chiquitos and Moxos, and a large
complex, which is indicated in our best maps and unknown runs a navigable river but also ignored:
this river is the San-Miguel. Its banks covered of vegetation as luxurious as active, are inhabited
by a remarkable nation, such Guarayos are, they do in America, for their open hospitality and customs
quite simple and primitive, the poetic dream of a golden age. Among these men of simple nature, who
never tormented jealousy, theft, this moral plague grossest civilizations
as the more refined, it is not known.

If some I had often longed to lie in the abandonment seeing magnificent countryside, while
Europe so many unhappy peasants perish in misery, how much more acute sense should not be my
in the presence of those places, the most abundant that I had found
until then, and wherein a prodigious nature, and a special class of
vegetation, it seems be asking to use arms to come through the crop
producer!

 So his skiff
was launched, and he rowed with them across the river, which is here about a mile wide, to
Port William. Here he introduced them to Mr. Niles, an elderly man, a little bent and a little
positive in his tone, as is the habit of teachers, but with true kindness in his manner. He drank and savored the comforting spirits, licking
taste, and began after a tinderbox, as I gazed at the valley bird's eye view of Tablanca,
with its houses climbing up behind the harvest of my uncle, and perched alone overhead, as
if he had stopped there to encourage them to voice and some jokes Don Celso, and, finally, leaning
back against the ground and stirrups with sandals on the roughness of the road, told me the
following, which I translate, slightly more than in substance, vulgar language, with real feeling,
because I can not, for lack of memory and always, play to the letter that picturesque language,
which exceeded local flavor by far in interest, the matter reported.

Facia was, in effect, a helpless orphan when my uncle picked her up at home. Educóse and grew in
it, it became a big girl, because he who inherit, as well as to be honest and discreet and
good-looking, and honestly, and discreetly, and even very gratefully passed, and rightly so,
in the village when it was presented as the rain clouds, a lover, a Tablanca baratijero that
shocked not only by the wonders never seen there, the shop that stood in a fair valley, but
by the charm of its peak by "Majura" in your face and the direction of their size. Like flies
came to his gleaming tenducho the poor fool of the fair, and fell like flies in honey and flattery
of their weights, deceiver leaving the bait down to the last penny of savings for very different
purposes. For women, especially, was the charlatan an irresistible hook, and for good girls, in particular,
a "one" that reckless. So good was the indino in that endeavor, which had just moved the tenducho
fair to the people and opened in a makeshift shed next to the church. To believe by his word, he
was a drug dealer by necessity, but luxury. He liked to run the world and see everything and
to do as they please, as it was rich for her house and had plenty of money, ran that way,
buying jewelry 'to all cost 'in the big cities of the earth, to hand them over to the poor
men and good girls of the hamlet for a piece of bread. So he was fine pearls price East of
Castilla chickpeas; puñalitos Damascus and gold watches, razors cheaper than Albacete and covers
of tin.


A good many boys stood on the bank as they embarked, and among them was Columbus, who had a
feeling that his best friends were about to desert him, and who would gladly have been one
of the party if he could have afforded the expense.

In the little crowd which watched the embarkation was Hank Rathbone, an old hunter and pioneer,
who made several good suggestions about their method of loading the boat.

"But where's your stove?" he asked.

"Stove?" said Bob. "We can't take a stove in this thing. There's a big old fire-place in the
house that'll do to cook by."

"But hot weather's comin' soon," said old Hank, "and then you'll want to cook out in the air,
I reckon. Pacha immediately sent to the punished to the full rigor of the
law, but at the time of execution, all the inhabitants gathered implored his grace with such
request, and the poor girl had so many protests that finally the head Gave forgiveness. Six or
seven months, entirely forgotten that he had escaped death tempted a second excursions for the
same purpose, and having done all the spy Pacha directions with strict orders to apply the
terrible punishment decreed for him, was pinned Four days later, and neither tears, nor could soften
his despair at his captors, incontinently that posed by the horrendous ordeal of being buried alive.

The
unhappy parents, overwhelmed with horror to the news of such an event,
abruptly fled of Irimo, and went to Aten to complain to the judge
the awful punishment which had just suffered its daughter thereby
discovered the mansion in Pacha.

Immediately ordered the authority apprehends this, which was made so, you drove to La-Paz for trial but
it took so long to execute him, that in 1823, when the city fell to the Patriots, Pacha was
seen covered by a general pardon and could then return to his country.

Irimo still exists, and is composed of the same families, subject to the jurisdiction this Aten civil
and ecclesiastical.

Its inhabitants, the great fertility of the land enjoy all the comforts of life, under a mild, in
a delightful position.

The waters of the river to meet the Aten are Mapiri, a tributary of the Beni: at Moreover, this
is the only power center in the province that does not address the Tuyche.

PEOPLES PARTY OR SMALL INTERIOR.

Under this denomination usually meet people from inside, such as San-Jose of Chupiamonas, Tumupaza,
Cavinas Isiamas and separated all of them, vast deserts, from those
just discussed.

I will therefore also describe these people, old missions, also founded,
as stated above, by the Franciscan Fathers.

SAN-JOSE DE CHUPIAMONAS.

Coming to the northeast of Apollo, and going through horrible roads full of dangers of all kinds,
in the middle of a desert without end, and after thirty-eight leagues a march excruciating, it finally
comes to St. Joseph of Chupiamonas, which takes its name a river whose waters are reddish to meet,
not far from there, the river Tuyche. The people composed of seventy-three Indians, all similar
to the Athenians, who speak the same language, is located near the confluence of the said river
which forms the Tuyche, which is so wide at that point, it is necessary to pass it on rafts,
so that people are very helpful to the travelers and merchants, dealing
in a band pass of river to the other.

Because so little number of its inhabitants, had intended to gather this population with that
of Aten, but the just claims of the dealers have made retained as an indispensable item for trade.

The
San-Jose temperature is very warm, but why is there any way know diseases: their abode can not
be more pleasant, it seems that nature had pleased to pour out his gifts in uncivilized places, with
a bounty worth the promised land. The foreigner who comes to Saint Joseph is stunned with admiration
at the sight a vegetation so beautiful, and the infinite variety of fruits that abound there. Indeed
its forests offered all over the vanilla, balsam oil, Recinos, aromatic bark, gums, wax and honey
and many medicinal plants. There spontaneously Críanse the most exquisite fruits, and including
cocoa, which grows wild without being planted by bear abundant crops everywhere. The game
offers prodigious amount of birds and quadrupeds: among these may be mentioned the large beast,
the bear-ant, the parrot-light many deer and wild boar, and a kind of very little pigs, called on the
country Quebo-queres. The Tuyche also abounds in fish. Finally, this extraordinarily fertile soil
produces rice, maize, cassava, peanuts, bananas, pineapples, cotton and sugarcane-sweet, but all
of these productions serve only for the consumption of the population,
and in no way to trade.

TUMUPAZA.

Twelve miles northeast of San-Jose, on a small rocky hill composed of whitish and in the middle
of a horizontal field, covered with small forests or grasslands, is old mission located Tumupaza
[1], converted to this in a parish. When the months of August, September and October, up one on the
hills, warnings to the distance, on many different points, the smoke produced no doubt by the fires
of the savages, which unknown until today live in such places as
to Tumupaza surrounding fertile.

This parish, It consists of eight hundred-eighty-five souls, gathers, in regard to their crop
productions and natural, absolutely the same circumstances as St. Joseph.

These Indians, belonging to the nation tacana are well made and elegant figure, have black hair
and very fine, regular face and a pale white complexion, her face is pleasant and expressive,
and everything in them the joy announces. Are otherwise very plain: all your dress is a robe made of
cotton fabric, which falls to them knees, and he has only half sleeves, are always bare, and
no cover head. Women are very neat, and like a lot of makeup: wanting to get to nature, In this
respect, its ordinary limits, from his youth begin to get bracelets leagues and cotton fabrics, to
modify this procedure by their arms and legs, and appear better educated than they are. Also
adorn the neck with fake corals, and are so exaggerated at this point, that if they could take
it over itself a store of similar ornaments. Vístense the same as the Indians with a cotton tunic,
without sleeves, which give dapi name. This tunic, white, blue or red, replace it, when they
can, for a dress large flowered chintz to Ramage and scarlet background: just go barefoot.
All having a family is, moreover, in a house, some kitchen utensils, instruments of hunting,
the bow and arrows, two or three layers, in as many dapis, and some
blankets, which are covered by lying on the bare floor.

Tumupaza grounds are very productive, but the lack of trade means that its inhabitants do not
grow very accurate but it satisfy their needs. Money [1] is not yet known including replacing
up to the present, to procure the items they need, their fruits that give in return. The eSCelente
cocoa [2], which is grown wild today all parties, can supply enough to cope to the most populous
cities. The Spanish believed that originally planted this plant had been scattered in the
woods for the countless monkeys that they abound: as it may, it now covers immense surface,
and the only task of picking a product yield substantial annual. Despite this abundance, which is continually
growing by the extent taken by Cacahual Native only collect what is enough to pay the personal
contribution of six pounds nugget of cocoa per year, to give his ration of eight pounds a cure,
more like ten to fifteen pounds to barter for needed clothing to the family: the remainder, ie
thousands of pounds are lost every year, being abandoned to the birds and other animals jungle. It
is very easy to understand that there is however a reason for not wanting the people pick
up the leftovers of cocoa that is, because the priest or the mayor do not force to carry on their
backs, for the space of sixty or eighty leagues from the capital, the collection of these fruits.
Indeed, these poor wretches are beasts of burden alone of their country, and were chartered in
the same way that the mules, each man has to carry along with its provisions, thirty-three pounds
of cargo, in a basket called a kid, for wages both slightest regard paid in goods, and do not
represent those only half real value. Where do these trips transport, at public expense or
in service the priest or the mayor, they are paid the actual amount of fourteen, and when they
do on behalf of the traders are starting to Tumupaza three dollars and three and a half since
Isiamas.

It is clear that the costly occupation that now hangs over these unfortunates, not only hinders and
the cast makes the state less salvage, which were seen even free but also contributes to paralyze
one of the most productive branches of the trade republic.

If the current state to more actively engage people in the harvesting of cocoa centuplicar
come to their resources, but this would be necessary, above all, open roads practicable for mules,
or undertake the voyage by the Tuyche. A small part the years invested in this task, being
able to devote the rest of the cotton fabric for not having to pay a cent for the staff of those
lousy cotton cloth that lead them traders.

ISIAMAS.

The people of this name, old mission of the Franciscans, is located nineteen miles north-northeast
of Tumupaza, in the midst of a vast plain punctuated by forests and marshes. The central position
relatively to the other inland towns, we made deserve the prominence
of party-boy capital, and is therefore a distinct vicariate of of
Apollo.

With regard to agriculture and hunting, Isiamas enjoying the same privileges as Tumupaza: in his
district is also a very large species of deer and also often much higher the product of their
fishing in the river Beni, which is far from alone there, when over a thirteen leagues towards the
east. Every year, for the months of August and September, the Indians down to this river, to collect
large numbers of turtle eggs, found in prodigious abundance on its
shores.

Also fish in the rivers of Tequije neighbors and Ithaca, and an infinity ponds and puddles
that form when the rivers run full.

The inhabitants of this village, who seizing the total in 1170, belong to tacana nation, and therefore
their customs and their costumes make them similar to the Tumupaceños entirely.

Isiamas forests are filled with trees whose wood is highly prized for cabinet; We can mention
among them the rosewood and mahogany: there are too many trees there resinous such as sandragon
and oil plants as tumijojo (name equivalent to seed stone), a palm tree, coconuts whose extremely
hard, containing almond oil filled: Retrieves this is only to power the lamps in the churches,
and rarely for trade.

Also take oil several species of palms, and the comoruru, for example,
skin has been thorny and Tueme and Asaja.

The latter is the plant preference, even in the same populations,
near the houses where usually see also some tamarind.

It is unremarkable in cattle breeding Isiamas; are there, however, some horses.

Cavina.

This parish, situated at an immense distance from Isiamas [1] is the last mission which is north
of the province. From the people who just called, you get to sail Cavinas by the Beni River,
which flows eastward a short distance from this place. Although it would be very easy initiate
a communication by land, opening a way through the plains, no doubt the navigation is preferable,
providing the replacement of rafts made of logs tied, they now serve, regular comfortable vessels.

The
people of Cavinas, having been reduced later to other parishes, is exempt from paying taxes, its
population consists of Tacana, in the number of thousand, not but his chief priest, who is responsible
for rule them both spiritually and in civil it is he who leads off to exchange for items they
want.

For the rest, This district has the same production that Tumupaza having direct it, a giant tree
that produces some sort of almonds contained in groups in a shell very thick. The plains would serve
advantageously for raising cattle, if not the vast crowd of bats
[1] that preys at night to suck blood in poor animals, and this at
present a great obstacle to progress.

The Rio Madidi, which takes its origin near Carabaya (in Peru) passes north of Cavinas and not far
from the village, which is built precisely on the very acute angle formed the reunion of that
river with the Beni.

The position so far away from this population quasi puts into contact
with many tribes still savages, but are in the best provision for
converting to Christianity.

Already in 1830, seventy Indians of these tribes came of their own
will to be brought under providential parish so if the government
would protect their conquest, they would soon all of them to establish
new and large populations, and this so more spontaneity since then
it sustraerian incursions of the warlike Machuis, his relentless enemies.

Population

of the province.

As we have seen, Caupolican province consists of ten parishes, whose population divided into
three separate nations, is as follows, according to the reviews undertaken in the year 1832.

+-------------------------------------------------
----------+ | NAME | NAMES OF NATIONS, | TOTAL | | | and number of the population | | | Of | of each district.
| DE | | |--------------------------| THE PEOPLE | | PEOPLE | Quichua | APOL | TACANAS | in each district. | |-------------+--------+--------
-+-------+------------------| | Suches | | | | | | Pelechuco | 2500 | | | 2,500 | | Pata |
165 | | | 165 | | Moxos | 122 | | | 122 | | Apollo | | 2775 | | 2775 | | Santa Cruz | | |
| | | Valle Ameno | | 941 | | 941 | | Aten | | | 1,033 | 1,033 | | St. Joseph | | | | | | Chupiamonas
| | | 73 | 73 | | Tumupaza | | | 885 | 885 | | Isiamas | | | 1,170 | 1,170 | | Cavinas | |
| 1,000 | 1,000 | | |--------+---------+-------+------------ ------| | Total | 2,787 | 3,716
| 4,161 | 10,664 | +-------------------------------------- ---------------------+

This form shows that the population entirely indigenous to the mayor exception and the priest
in each district, amounting to ten thousand six hundred sixty-four inhabitants, whose number, two thousand seven hundred eighty-seven
belong to the Quechua nation, three in 1700 sixteen to the nation
Apollos, four thousand one hundred sixty-one to the nation Tacana.

If these amounts are added to about three thousand Indians, still savages, who live towards
the northwest, north and northeast towards Tumupaza and Cavinas, it will be a total General
thirteen thousand six hundred sixty-four souls.

The three primitive languages ​​spoken in the province although it everywhere: just in Suches,
Pelechuco Pata and Moxos means only people in Quichua, the Apollo and Santa Cruz de Valle Ameno
still espressi in Apollo, while in Athens, and in all the inland
towns, language is the only tacana that is in use.

As the Franciscans precision had to communicate continuously with the Indians, in each population
are interpreters, over trade relations, due to the collection of the scale, will gradually helping
to spread the use of Castilian among the Indians, who do not leave and to understand some words.

These
Indians, generally speaking the more docile, they are held without ever complaining, to the
laws imposed on them, while being suitable for all, both in its character, for ease of understanding
them is natural. What I have said in detail Each parish will suffice to give an idea of ​​their
customs and their habits, could only Caupolicanos add that everyone is poor, not poverty that
afflicts such because they have what it takes to eat to satiety and
to dress and procure some pleasures, can not stir them on the other
hand the future of their children, in the heart of this nature so
fertile.

Relative poverty is a real wealth of the current state of affairs, because As desirable objects
that do not have the slightest idea! And why work harder than is necessary to obtain the few
things that are known today? The spirit of possession of wealth, and go mustering the means
to procure all future kind of enjoyment, it is now, so to speak, a principle of civilization
unknown to the people to come, much as that of Caupolican, the primitive state. The only way
natural remedy that apathy, indolence that they reproach to all nations yet half savage, is to
be born among them, by the frequency of trade relations, needs that they are at present unknown.
Then, the desire to satisfy, necessarily determined efforts of work, which must provide the
means.

It must be said in praise of the character of these people, they all considered if they belonged
to one family, living in the closest fraternity: thus, for example, when there is one which
the crop becomes insufficient provision for the year, requests as a very natural thing Ausilio
his neighbor, who with the greatest goodwill in the world part with everything he has. Telling it
with his own, never asked a native to the foreigners the slightest thing. If they so generously
give to his countrymen what is necessary for subsistence, are not less willing to lavish superfluity
to those who are his friends.

Abuse of functions, which, with large number of religious festivals has introduced Caupolican the
clergy, as well as on the plains of Bolivia, is undoubtedly the main cause of ruin and disorder.
If such days the natives of the interior villages content with grotesquely attired and carry on
their persons the varied plumage of birds of their forests without drinking anything other than the chicha,
the fermented liquid made yucca, which is neither too strong nor harmful, not the case with the natives
of Caupolican, dresses with the same extravagance that make use of
spirits and caused this drink great expense while the loss of his
health.



When the boys were in the boat ready to start, Mr. Kane said to Bob:

"You wouldn't mind working for me this summer at the regular price?"

"I'd like to," said Bob.

"How soon can you come?"

"Next Wednesday evening."

"I'll expect you," said the Judge, and he turned away up the bank, with a slight nod and a
curt "Good-bye," while Bob said: "What a curious man he is!"

"Yes, and as good as he's curious," added Jack.

It was a warm day for rowing, but the boys were both a little homesick. Under the shelter of
a point where the current was not too strong the two rowed and made fair headway, sometimes
encountering an eddy which gave them a lift. But whenever the current set strongly toward their
side of the river, and whenever they found it necessary to round a point, one of them would
leap out on the pebbly beach and, throwing the boat-rope over his shoulder, set his strength
against the stream. 

The waters of the Madeira River and the Rio Marañon river are black, which has a league width
at points where there are no islands, it embraces two and sometimes more in those where there.
Sixty miles below the Madeira River, going straight, or ninety, following the windings, is
to meet at the famous river Marañon Tapajoz, and sixty leagues under the latter, the Xingu river,
also very plentiful, and lower Cuyaba province.

The Maranon or Amazon is then gradually widening to plunge into the
sea.

Moral and administrative improvements that the province is susceptible.

Being now the province of Moxos head of a department is likely to prosper without interruption
in all respects and in all areas, particularly if the care provided prefectural government to
instruct his men to make educated and able to march in front introducing into it since then, and at
the same time, any possible improvements.

It is above all necessary to reform the religious abuses I have mentioned, but it is necessary work
in this regard with the utmost tact, and taking the utmost care so as not to go to the Indians
from one end to another, of their fanatical beliefs to a full irreligion. All the reforms of this
kind should not be introduced but little by little, without making use of absolute rules, and
making the transition is insensitive to the utmost. The medium would be more effective to put in these
educated church missions, that would make excel healthy and well-understood moral of Catholicism
in the religious beliefs of the Moxenos, on abolishing exaggerated penances and punishments
bloody, unworthy and agencies and the enlightened age in which we live. Meanwhile, there would
no longer be harmful to my way to see that the civilian administration
ostensibly meddle in the execution of these reforms, serious as feared
that reaching the Moxos to be freed from this background that keeps
religion offline, it corrupted everything.

Finally, the execution of such a reform is extremely difficult, and requires all the wisdom,
the wisdom of an enlightened government, to be driving the car of the improvements with the greatest
possible restraint and caution.

Administrative reform requires no less tact and prudence. A people who lived during almost two
centuries, accustomed to more humble servility, and to not have anything in property can not move from
a blow to full independence without exposing to greater evils than which seeks to redress. It
would then need to place at the same time, in every mission, a man able to teach with due care
to these infants of civilization to take the first steps towards freedom of action, towards
individual ownership, and above all, towards relations This mutation determines social things.
Meanwhile, it is clear that if trade All their activity is not power the Moxenos, to encourage
further work to industry, making them meet certain needs while still ignored being too sober
in nature, and little ambitious, certainly abandon all gainful occupation as soon as they
saw free, and will result from this fact, instead of civilization perhaps his greatest hindrance.
There is also a factor to consider important, and that the inhabitants of Moxos are nothing more
than mere craftsmen, and that this class of individuals, even in Europe itself, can not make
any progress, but under the direction of learned men and able to engage in any kind of improvement.
It is necessary see that a people and a high degree of civilization to sugetarse factory work;
Moxeño so that, seeing books before they be established manufactures in the province to take up arms,
came out, I repeat, by losing what little they know today, at the same while industrial habits.
This is one of the highest political economy issues that the government
will know probably appreciate it properly, taking measures that will
lead the general interest of the inhabitants, while tending to the
advancement of the country.

Always returning to the same subject, and I insist that frequent certain relationships by trade,
and continued contact of natural men who are Moxos exceed the education, customs and industry,
can only operate between them by little and little natural and positive reform, in that, any
action out of time maybe it would bring disastrous results. Therefore urges primarily promote
trade by abolishing certain taxation to facilitate it, and then the Moxos, knowing what they are
worth, and they can do to procure the welfare, civilized and march
towards a social state prosperous and stable.

To aid in this forward march, is indispensable, as it has practiced the current government, schools
that teach not only the Spanish language, but also mathematics and drawing, in order to do
that they go together, moral instruction, industrial and commercial. To encourage the study
would be necessary, there more than anywhere Moreover, distributed as a reward honorable awards
provided the talent and to the nature of individuals, since it had some that were marked by any
kind merit. We must not lose sight of the creatures Moxeño are great, and that will result from them
whatever you want, provided that the good deeds will be timely rewarded
somehow.

One of the essential measures for improving this province, it is particularly which is aimed at preventing
the death of the creatures, and the plague of smallpox that strike adults. Such evils are
decimating the population, where significant accretion should for such favorable conditions
under which it is attached.

It is therefore of absolute need to seat in each canton to a doctor paid by the government
and responsible for manage relevant health condoms.

The priests, whom the ministry gets more in touch with the people, should take his by propagating
the vaccine, and epidemics, constantly monitor the actions of Indians to prevent these from
leaving their homes to go to bathe, as they always do, shopping with
passengers life a relief.

It could also pray for the priests, care to take great care to preserve the creature born
of the action recently South Wind, as pernicious in this province and that of Caupolican.

Being a natural duty of any given society with some sacrifice to take action leading to their improvement
and welfare, nothing more just that the use of all means for implement them as appropriate; even
if this requires, the imposition of heavy taxes, because otherwise
it would be very difficult to cope with the many expenses.

However, little burdensome whether these contributions will be allocated at a rate of more
equitable, and moderation and insight appropriate.

As a country advances in civilization, also grow by degrees their
burdens; but being so judiciously penetrated the taxpayer of the reasons
that determine RAVEL new taxes, you agree to bear more so request,
as you enjoy the same as the part that it fits in the sum of social
benefits.

Improvements in agriculture, industry and trade of the province is susceptible.

Moxos province has in itself all the elements of improvement, applicable to classes of agriculture,
industry and commerce. I will quote from them, primarily those who can receive A drive new
and more productive.

The main object, indeed indispensable for raising cattle, farming, and even for the health,
would be the construction of small canals, so easy to open in extremity soft ground. These channels,
serving for the early leak of the marshes, would make the surface
were enlarged considerably benefit you.

To increase land suffice to practice here and there some bloodletting, as deemed appropriate
to the engineers, in view of the grading. This measure is perhaps one of the most urgent, because
it would contribute to a doubling of resources and to reduce the mortality of the population.

In
most of South America, the farms are far behind on measures building for raising cattle. The
animals are abandoned and wander without they never try to secure some comfort. In Moxos,
in Parages intermediate between rivers, the land is entirely devoid of water during the dry,
and cattle often resent the suffering that this fact brings them, while in rainy seasons, are
forced to seek shelter on the few and narrow Items not invaded by water, compressed and lived
there almost lacking food, so is that they painstakingly go down to the marshes to graze part
of the day, and return after the close rodeo where they have enough space to lie down and
chew comfortably. Great is because the death of cattle in both seasons, something that very
easily would avoid setting up water tanks at some points, and drainage channels in many others.
In those places has not yet entered the art to give help to nature, for which reason Moxos
not removed even half the benefits that this land can produce virgin and privileged. The execution
of the improvements just mentioned, then multiply considerably cattle, which make up today's
more hundred and twenty thousand heads procrearia each year more than half their number. Fats
and hides would give Then a very grown-income individuals and to
the exchequer.

Although the breeding of horses would be more appropriate for several reasons, to the province
of Chiquitos, we must not lose sight entirely in the province of which we are concerned: on
the contrary, it having already more than twenty five thousand horses, it would be useful to take care
of their improvement and increasing, what will be achieved more easily, when grazing land dilate with
the establishment of drainage channels.

These animals on the plains, wetlands, fortify their vessels as soon as they move over the mountains,
where the rocky soil undoubtedly alter their habits.

I say the horse is also applicable to the breeding of mules, industry
not yet known, and should be introduced without delay, in order to
save the sums of money Every year Bolivia output from the introduction
of these useful beasts, brought from Salta, Tucuman, Santiago del
Estero, etc.

In 1830 he had already Moxos as seven hundred seventy-four
sheep: who cares for little the promotion and propagation of these
cattle, wool would be obtained soon enough to provide to the looms,
and then, not only would be supplied by the province itself spawned
wool merchants carry them, but that it would produce, instead of cotton
goods, Wool tected much more advantageous for your business.

In a country whose territory is immense, it could breed more pigs leave alone grazing around
the estates, so that without addressing much of them, were multiplied to cope with provisions
to sailors on the remote expeditions, salting the effect meat, as
practiced in Europe for consumption by the crew of the Navy and shipping.

Bees

wax results would also unprofitable, but that for eSCelente have lighting in the province would be
sufficient to engage a factory spark plugs, using the fat that is wasted each year in slaughterhouses.

The
indigo of various species, grows naturally in less flooded sites, without think of using it somehow.
This plant is abundant particularly in the country of the Yuracarés, and its quality is superior.

The
cultivation of vanilla, which is grown wild in the forest interior,
very serious advantageous for commerce with Europe, where it makes
a huge consumption in spite of their increased cost.

The same goes for the other trees that provide highly valued drugs and spices, such as cinnamon,
cloves, nutmeg, ginger, etc.

Tamarind plantations renovated, with very little work would yield an abundant harvest would
form while beautiful malls in the vicinity of populated areas.

The cocoa is grown and wild in the woods nearby to Trinidad, should stand as that costs nothing
at all groves found at every step in the territory of the province, thus preparing for the future,
natural income as those of Caupolican.

Coffee is also susceptible to a new drive, and centuplicaria their products with a well-ordered
culture method. The same would happen to corn, rice, etc. The province
Moxos finally be advisable for the cultivation of all species of tropical
plants.

The candy cane sprout, especially in those flood plains, with a prodigious force and yield substantial
proceeds and when communications between Moxos and Cochabamba La-Paz
and be made more easy and frequent, there would be safe and profitable
markets for the release of sugars, that today lack these cities, with
bring the Cuzco most of those required for consumption, but could
not be subtracted instead the coinage of Bolivia to enrich Peru.

Never been used Moxos woods but in small woodworking that Indians
are inlaid with mother of pearl, and it may well be drawn from them
a party advantage by referring to Europe, or to bring the departments
of the mountains, then to be very abundant but are of the highest
quality.

The rubber, which grows naturally in the forests, is today an important branch Para trade. It
would be necessary, not only use wild plants, but also make large-scale plantations to take full
advantage of this article adds value.

Countless other plants known to dye his virtue, should benefit by them an important branch of
the interior and exterior trade.

Cucis motacú palms and trade would give plenty of oil, no more work
annually to collect fallen coconuts from the tree, and strategies
the substance by machines analogous to those used in Europe for estracion
walnut oil.

Thus would take advantage of those fruits that are lost every year, and its oil would serve, and
to replace on the tables, after clarifying, the olives, and for lighting, feeding lamps made to
order, and whose use is now general in Europe, and for employment it can be done in industry
and manufacturing.

 The silent man made the pupils understand that he was not to
be trifled with.

When at length there was quiet, he made every one lay down book or slate and face around toward
him. Then with his pointing finger, or with a little slap of his hands together, or with a
word or two at most, he got the school still again.

"I hope we shall be friends," he said, in a voice full of kindliness. "All I want is to----"

But at this point Riley picked up his slate and book, and turned away. The master snapped his
fingers, but Riley affected not to hear him. Made I happen
also to journey I found myself at the time one of these expeditions. Will copy here the point of
my diary that refers to this passage.

"... More than forty boats were preparing to depart at once from the port of Loreto, composing
a veritable fleet. Priests and traders who were incorporated into the expedition, they wanted
I ordered me to lead the way, traveling in company, and how could practice better, since my
rowers were the ablest, of course I accepted the honor they gave me. At the end of the day
we stopped for the night on a roomy bench Sandy, not far from a forest. Then I was taken to
enjoy a promising perspective, canoes as they came slowly and successively greeted by triumphant
shouts or derision of those who speak in advance. All Indians then scattered into the forest,
and bringing back wood, some with canes that armed beds for travelers, and symmetric key stakes
thick on the ground to suspend, for separate groups the beds belonging to the rowers in each
boat: in the center of these groups went on a fire, and the outside parle shone at intervals, and
other fires where making dinner. "

"Our camp, which brought together over six hundred people, had the most curious aspect I could
imagine. They spoke to him almost all the languages ​​of the province, without being confused each
other different nations. All the white people had gathered in the center while here and there,
the Baures, the Itonama, the Movimas, the Cayuvava, the Canichana Moxos and forming various groups,
conversing in their respective dialects. The little beach transuto lonely before the theater
was the most animated. Each group of white beds, hanging around a bonfire, in contrast with
the nets of travelers and the row of canoes which extended majestically along the banks [1]: sitting
all on the beach after dinner in the community, raising thousands cheerful conversation, to which
the strangeness of different lenguages ​​was more originality.
 And
this hero outshines the others and the legend is embodied in it and becomes more and life enhancement.
FAUSTO So, before Goethe adopted by the son of his spirit had already darkened all scholars
who have given the devil, since there are devils and wise in the world.

Characters, then, like that of Faust, as in our Spain v. gr., Don Juan Tenorio Student and Lisa,
are called to be precious jewels of all literatures, and inspire the best dramas, operas, novels
and poems that can be composed. To travel the world in triumph, just waiting to arrive in genius
seizes them, and subject something epic report are still, things become art, with more reality and significance
and spirit, to live in the soul and memory of men, that the real heroes and acquaintances of history
to become real characters, even if they have ever existed, as Semiramis and happened to many
others, whom critics have come to find out later that never existed.

For the legendary hero is a great fortune that a poet of merit seizes him, but more fortunate
still that of the poet who manage to hit the hero. Owes much to Don Juan Tirso and more to
Don Juan Tirso, Lisa Espronceda Espronceda and to Lisa. Similarly owes much Goethe's Faust Goethe
and Faust. No wonder Goethe seize him in his first youth, and not leave him for over 50 years,
until age 82. What Goethe did not write in this half century long? What issues did not try? What
kind of literature is not cultivated with success? Confining ourselves only to the theater,
as Goethe wrote historical dramas Egmont and Tasso Goetz, sentimental comedies, such as Clavijo;
comedies Aristophanes; Greek tragedies as Iphigenia; farces, somewhat similar to what we call around
here operettas, comedies satirical literary the order of the Coffee, Moratin, etc., etc.,
but all this thinking, I wrote it, left and then maybe he forgot while he was working in FAUSTO
life. Concretémonos now, as we said, and with the restrictions already mentioned, the first part
alone. Clearly, concerning the work delivered by the people, Goethe has created a work admirable.
 

Also I had fancied that Chisco looked very favorably Tona. This did not speak my uncle, but
at mozallón, and talk about something, the two of them up once a "Prao-Council."

- Jorrios! - He said climbing ahead of me, without a moment and turn
away, but air shaking his right hand.

No doubt I got the answer, and asked a more strict. Diómela in these
terms:

- It would be wrong in eya puestus the pensaris of unu ...
Esu and that! ... But mine will Jacia quite another par.

Columbus, having come from the back country, did not know the names of half a dozen boats,
and what he knew about were those which touched daily at the wharf of Greenbank.

"F----n," he said.

"Fashion," cried all the boys at once, breaking into unrestrained mirth at the simplicity that
gave them the name of Captain Glenn's little Cincinnati and Port William packet, which landed
daily at the village wharf. Columbus now made a dash at the boys, who were obliged to run to
the school-house and back whenever a name was guessed, suffering a beating all the way from
the handkerchief of the one who had given out the name, though, indeed, the punishment Lum
was able to give was very slight. 

This is the name which the natives have given the nation more war, more terrible and abnormal
found in the province of Moxos. The Spanish living in the provinces surrounding not designated
by another name: the Jesuits were called Canicianas [1].

If we give credence to the traditions, the nation Canichana lived on the banks of Mamore, near
the rapids that give rise to Rio Machupo, and also over the course of the same, stretching out to
where now stands the Mission San-Joaquin. Still noticeable on the western plains of Machupo,
between San-Joaquin and San-Ramon, the trenches These Indians had built to ward off their enemies.
His many populations [1] were between 13 and 14 degrees south latitude and longitude 67 and
68 west of Paris, and though entirely isolated from all its neighbors, always kept guard against
his wiles, bordered to the east with Itonama, west and north The Ites, south to Moxos, and the
north-west with the Cayuvava.

The complexion of the Canichana, more brown than the Moxos, is little
more or less like that of the Chapacuras.

As high as Moxos, height usually comes to five feet and two inches. The wives are small in proportion
to the height of men.

Their body shapes, identical to those of the Moxos, are somewhat more plump and less desvahidas;
have broad shoulders and stalwart members reveal their strength, without thorough exposure to
obesity. The women in the same proportions that are noticed between Moxos.

Far away are the Canichana to have as open and above a face covered sweetness, his appearance
is ferocious and hard, his big head, his face like that of the oblong Tuffs from Gran-Chaco, have
very pronounced cheekbones, tiny and bent his forehead; wide nose, short and flat, and the windows
wide open, big mouth, her lips thick, deep-set eyes, small and inclined to the upper extremity
to its angle; girls ears, eyebrows arched, his hair and beard as well as other indigenous Moxos
province. His face is sad and disgusting ugliness, but rather squeezes state ferocity savage
gloom.

The women have not the least attractive; They find the same traits in men: among also notice
the absence of the gaiety and joy in the meantime carry on their faces the banner of the malignancy
and indiscipline.

The language of the Canichana, which does not contain a word like unto those of other languages
​​of the province, is musical, very sharp, and hard at the hearing a few times guttural sounds
of certain words are composed of many consonants together as jl, tz, ts. Almost every word ends in
a vowel: esceptúanse some whose endings in ac, ec, ip, ij and ch are very rough. The Spanish
j is used frequently and keeps all its hardness, especially when coupled with the l, as in the
syllable jla. The nasal or does not exist and sounds of the x and f are unknown, whereas it
is much use of the French ch and Spanish. Canichana language is perhaps the one with more abnormalities
as to the how first the words. If Chiquitos languages ​​the names of the parties the body begin
with a letter, noticing the same singularity in the language of Canichana, as seen in the names
eicokena (cheek), encomete (ear), Culot (eyes) this being common to everything about the man's physical.
There is however an anomaly still more singular, and that the names of all material objects belonging
to animals, plants, minerals, and also to the stars, invariable principle the letter n, such as Nicole
(mono), nitij (cotton), nisep (lake), nicojli (sun). The other consonants are used only pronouns, verbs,
etc. Adjectives belong to both genders.

The numbering system reaches only three. Finally, the pronunciation is very similar to that of the
Moximas and Itonama.

The character of these Indians is as strange as his face and his language, far from being sociable
and full of candor as the Moxos, or cowardly as the Itonama, is bold by others, entrepreneurial,
independent, cold, concealed, sad, sullen, unsociable, and Yet little squeamish. Inclined
to theft as Itonama, more daring steal so as with the consciousness of being feared by other
nations, to the extreme that to let them get away with sack in their populations. Justice must
meanwhile hacerseles a beautiful garment, its consequence and fidelity,
that they have given repeated tests.

But to Despite this, no longer be considered as a wonderful fact, that with such a character
so easily have been subjected to the yoke of the Jesuits.

According to reports I have collected, their customs should be extremely warlike. Had forts
surrounded by ditches, which lived some of the nation, operating from there incursions into
the territory of its neighbors, Itenes, the Cayuvava and Itonama: latter were mainly the most
persecuted, for being the least countered their strength. If we give credence to some relationships,
the prisoners who fell into the hands of These Indians were eaten by them in solemn feasts.
Mainly dedicated to fishing and to the game, neglected agriculture,
its industry consisted only in the construction canoes and the manufacture
of weapons were much given to drink and they made use of liquor fermented.

Vestíanse just as other nations in the province.

Noticing in particular the fast rigorous customs of eight days which required girls entering
the marriageable age, and rejoicing and celebrating libation then
this happy event.

The fear that they inspired an evil genius named Yinijama, was the main base of their religion.

As
to the skin, shapes and height, Canichana not deviate from the Moxos: for With regard to customs
and to the face, they seem rather to the Toba and Mbocobis of Chaco. The singularities of language
puts them in parallel with and Chiquiteños Moxos. I, finally, that belong to the branch moxeño
Canichana but that is an anomaly the more strange, since they are surrounded by people who meet a
remarkable character uniformity in all its physical connections.

NATION OF CAPTURE.

By the time of the conquest of the province of Moxos, inhabited the plains Movimas west of the Mamore,
on the banks of Yacuma, as 14 degrees latitude south, and between 68 and 69 west of Paris.
They were still divided in many villages located on the banks of
rivers, and were neighbors to the south and southwest to the Moxos,
towards the east to the Canichana, and north to the Cayuvava, separating
them from those nations floodplain forests and spacious.

The complexion of the Movimas is identical to that of the Moxos.

Their average height is five feet and two and a half inches, they are usually arrogant presence,
both men and the women, there are girls of sixteen to seventeen over
can compete with men in strength and bravery.

The ordinary height of wives is five feet, thus far superior to the proportion that should save
with men.

The shapes of the Movimas are at least as robust as those of Moxos, and entirely the same as
to the details, with the only difference being that the women involved something from those of men.
The features of his face, filled with more sweetness, also the similar
to those Indians, there is however a large number of women, who not
only have a manly, but no such delicate features that characterize
the male of this nation, usually the Movimas nose is a bit wider than
that of the Moxos.

The language of the Movimas, but different from the others in the province on the merits, looks
like a lot, the hardness of their sounds and the difficulty of their pronunciation, that of
Canichana and Itonama, with maybe even harder than these. Is also in the composition of their
words many consonants together as tch, ch, chl, jn, jl, jr, LJ and ts, which produce sounds very harsh,
almost all the voices end in a vowel, the very few that deviate from the rule, ending in the consonants
l, n, w, p, s, ch ch French and Spanish. Often used the Spanish j, or nasal and the f are
unknown. For the rest, language does not offer this apparent anomaly:
the adjectives fit to both genders.

The numbering system is no more than four, nor have any relation with the number of fingers.

The nature of the Movimas, that all seems to of Moxos, is animated by an excessive goodness and
more pronounced instinct of sociability. Judging from their current way of living, customs
should be also identical to those of Moxos, consisting of their occupations in fishing, sailing,
hunting and agriculture. Its industry, its governmental system and likens religion to the nation
even mentioned. The evil genius, which determined their misfortunes, was called Caniba Kilmer.
Fearing covered with leprosy, these Indians never killed a snake,
and those widowed were kept well to kill a leopard, persuaded that
if they did, they too succumb.

Finally, the total compliance of physical and moral circumstances
that exists between Movimas and Moxos, tear me to believe that both
nations to the same branch, not differentiating but by an entirely
different language, and perhaps by the more or less body strength.

Cayuvava NATION [1]

This nation lived on the west bank of the Mamore, fifteen leagues above the confluence of this
river with Guaporé or Iten, on those plains interspersed with marshes and small boscages that
characterize those fields. Spread over the Cayuvava Vivian small tribes, whose populations
it spread on the banks of that great river, and small tributaries of the western plains [2],
between 12 and 13 degrees latitude south, and towards the 68 west longitude from Paris. They had
for neighbors to the south to the Movimas, Itenes to the east, to
the Kings Maropas towards the west, to the Pacaguaras Beni River towards
the north, being separated, particularly the latter two nations, by
dilatadísimos deserts [3].

For the complexion, the high carriage of the men, their robust forms, its members burly, his
features regular and graceful, her countenance sweet, Cayuvava resemble
Moxos and if your general aspect is covered with a little more seriously,
the rest meet every physical character of this nation.

Cayuvava language differs from other dialects of the province at the bottom of the words, as
though it has some analogy with Itonama languages, and Movima Canichana by the roughness of many
sounds, however, is more euphonious. The complication of sound consonants together too often: the
consonants together and dj dx, prefixed to members, is a bit hard, however, the second consonant
sound always remains soft pronunciation of French or Spanish. Also be warned, among the sounds
peculiar to the tongue, nasal or weakly, the x, to move, the ch and some completions and an ain, the
only noticeable at the end of a limited number of voices, they all invariably end up in a vowel. The
guttural sound of the Spanish j is very common, and the ch of this language, missing only the l
in the alphabet of the language, otherwise free of anomalies. Adjectives adhere to both genders.
The counting system has no relation to the number of fingers, but has a remarkable feature. The
numbers, which usually only unite to the other after ten in the Cayuvava system starts to collect
from the six. All American languages ​​have different names for the units, and have then ten and
one, etc.., while Cayuvava reach up to five only, and go on to say, for six, Carat ribobo (one
and five), for the seven, Mitya ribobo (two and five), and Thus ten, beginning after the tens,
and telling all, only up to one hundred.

The nature of the Cayuvava has a lot of analogy with the Moxos, and it may well be said it is more
noble. In the extreme, courageous, bold "enterprising, industrious, honest and loyal Indian
warriors were those most feared by other nations, their weapons consisted in the bow and arrows
also drove the spear, and marched to battle organized phalanges captained
by special chiefs.

Your religion was founded on the belief of a being protector of all things, called Idaapa, and
an evil genius, author of all evil, called Mainajé. Admitted these Indians the immortality of
the soul, and as Itonama, believed duty to prevent escape death a dying body, covering her
mouth wide and nose.

The men interrupted their Monthly jobs during the indisposition of their wives, and dared not
take anything some while they were widowed.

Despite the language difference, the Cayuvava is too similar to the
Moxos in character and other physical and moral circumstances, that
do not belong to the same branch these.

NATION OF ITENE.

This nation seems to have given its name to the river coming down from this to go and meet with Mamore
towards 12 degrees south latitude. Items which occupied the territory between Itenes and Mamore
rivers, extending his thirty leagues towards the north, from the angle the reunion of these rivers:
the population was composed of small villages scattered throughout
the inland, in the middle of the woods, or on the banks of streams
that drain in the Mamore.

Circumscribed between 12 and 13 degrees south latitude, and longitude 67 and 68 West had for neighbors
to the south to the Canichana, towards the north-west to the Movimas; west to the Cayuvava.

These were no different from natural and Cayuvava Moxos, his complexion, form and features are
completely identical, would say only that her face is covered with some more seriousness.

The language of the Itenes differs from the other languages ​​of the province and to the merits
the pronunciation, but some words of their dialect and the Chapacuras, whose close analogy
is the effect of chance, I do believe there was once some contact between these two nations,
without which it ceases to notice a marked difference in their own language. That of Itenes
undoubtedly is the most terse, the sweetest and euphonious language of all Americans, all words
end in a vowel, not is one that contains in its composition hard consonants. Guttural sounds and
nose are unknown, and the compounds of consonants are only of the union of b with z French, but not
unpleasant to the ear hurt. The letters f, g, j, l, x are totally strangers. No abnormality observed no
nouns, adjectives belong to the same time to the masculine and feminine. Finally, in all languages
the childs is the simplest in their pronunciation, and the more laconic
in their ways, often Broadcast one sound enough to describe an object.

The numbering system reaches only five, and has no relation to the number of fingers.

If the natural character of these bears little resemblance to that
of Moxos, bears some resemblance to that of the Canichana.

By other independent and haughty, brave to be reckless, indomitable warriors, not between them
lacked candor and kindness.

Intrepid hunters and fishermen tireless, are both good farmers. These Indians never were cannibals.

Its
industry was limited to little. Sabian protect and painting, but his greatest skill lay in the
manufacture of weapons, their arrows had a bone at the tip very sharp, and were adorned with
thousands of curious work.

Their canoes were, like today, very long and narrow, their drinks similar to those of the other
Indians of the province had their faces painted, and on days gala
head adorned with feathers artfully arranged.

In fact, his government was reduced to nothing: the chiefs had no authority, and charge was limited
to captain the hosts who were heading into battle.

All your religion was founded on the fear instilled in them an evil
genius named Tumeké.

The physical circumstances of the Itenes are entirely identical to those of the Moxos, their habits
make them similar to Canichana, while his language, the more soft and sonorous throughout the
province, contains, in spite of the difference in pronunciation, similar voices the language of the
Chapacuras. Finally, Itenes clearly belong to the same branch The Moxos.

NATION OF PACAGUARAS.

The Pacaguaras, who lived at the confluence of the Beni and Mamore
river, towards 10 degrees south latitude and between 67 and 68 west
longitude, composing large populations located within the forests
that adorn the banks of these vault of rivers.

Found out, so to speak, the territory of the province, these Indians belong to those numerous
nations scattered on the banks of the Rio Madeira, and the Amazon and its tributaries. Bordered
by the south with Itenes and Cayuvava, and only relate to the past.

Her complexion is equal to that of the Moxos, his stature seems smaller, but its forms and factions
meet completely the same characters, but by gravity, breathing her face perhaps Cayuvava more
closely resemble.

If your language is different, in principle, the latter, has however some connections with it,
as regards the pronunciation, and not without its hardness some analogy
with Itonama languages, and Movima Canichana.

There is also the pacaguara complication of consonant sounds together, such as tz, ts, dj, JN, now with
the pronunciation entirely guttural Spanish, now with the soft of
the French.

Frequently Encuéntranse ch z and of these, as well as his or nose. Almost every word ending in a vowel,
and only excepting the sounds are made, ending in on, ch an and French, with none of them
is hard. The letters f, lyx is unknown. Adjectives serve at once to the two genres. The numbering
system extends only to ten, and probably agrees the number of fingers.

The nature of Pacaguaras resembles that of the Cayuvava; like this, practice hospitality, and
cherish benevolence, honesty and loyalty, linking to these virtues of fearlessness and courage.

With
respect to customs, there is also between them and a big Moxos compliance.

Constantly engaged in navigation, fishing, hunting and agriculture, remained always peaceful,
and avoided any enmity with their neighbors, living with them in
perfect harmony.

Its industry is confined to the tissue of genres for clothing, manufacturing
weapons, and the construction of canoes similar to those of the Moxos.

Their chiefs were regarded as mere advisers, his religion taught them to believe in called Huara
be beneficial, and an evil spirit known under the name of Yochina, but did not profess a religion
without.

In short, it is believed that the positively Pacaguaras belong to the branch of Moxos on account
of the similarity of physical and moral characteristics.

NATION OF CHAPACURAS [1]

The Chapacuras lived scattered on the banks of the Rio Blanco or Baures, not far from a big
lake, and amid the forests that separate the provinces of Chiquitos and Moxos beyond the last
hill of the first province, and a little more or less to 15 degrees south latitude and between
64 and 65 west longitude meridian of Paris. Had for neighbors (including those not connected
by the ex away) to the Chapacuracas and Paiconecas towards the south,
and the hordes of the tribe of the Baures north.

The complexion of the Chapacuras is tanned or greenish-brown, thus identical to that of the Chiquitos.
His stature has also some analogy with these, the median is five feet and one-half inches, the highest
not exceeding five feet and five inches. The wives kept in a relatively large size.

Their body shapes are similar to those of the Chiquitos, but the size of men seems more desvahido,
and although members have a strong build, and no visible muscles, Outgoing chest, broad shoulders,
and his whole body in the extreme, robust, not prone to obesity.

The women, better educated and more graceful than Chiquiteñas, have the hips and broad shoulders, waist,
but according to European proportions, and a feet and hands were remarkable for their smallness.

His
features are also somewhat different: both sexes are, a head large, a broad face, but less
crowded than that of the Chiquitos, bunions of the most delivered a short and slightly curved
front, a short nose, flat but rather wide, and windows wide open, mouth medium, slightly thick
lips, small eyes and horizontal ears small, narrow, arched eyebrows, black hair, long, thin
and very stiff nothing. His face is gloomy and less animated than the Chiquitos. In general,
men are ugly, and have very black beard, sparsely populated and limp, like the bozo: between wives
rarely is a regular face, but why not inspire aversion, meanwhile, the general appearance of the
two sexes captive trust, and all the sweetness in them announces.

Their language is entirely distinct from the languages ​​of Chiquitos, as to the form of words
and although very hard, is pleasant to the ear: it has many voices in vocal completed, the
number of those that end in single consonants n, m, p, tyj is reduced.

The guttural the Spanish j and nasal or are often. Many consonants, such as b, f, c and x, appear
to be completely unknown, and while the French ch rare, is frequently used Spanish. In this
language is seen as in the Chiquiteños, a particularity relative
to the names of body parts, instead principles with a specific letter,
end with a uniform particle, as seen in urutarachi (Darling) taipatachi
(ear), tucuchi (eyes), objects that designate Chiquitos Quitemocas
with the words urutaraché, tatiataché and coated.

I have not noticed any distinction between male and feminine adjectives, nor a special form
for plurals. The system numbering, which only reaches to ten, no doubt based on the number of
fingers. The tribe has many terms Quitemocas entirely different from those of the language
chapacura, which perhaps comes from old relationships with any foreign
nation.

The Chapacuras, though left by temperament, have them extremely
loving nature, and predisposes them to servile obedience; hospitable
to foreigners, are perhaps Indians most sociable of the province,
even without the joy of the Chiquiteños.

Their habits are similar
to those of the natives, and lived like them, scattered small tribes
in the interior of the surrounding forests on the banks of the Rio
Blanco or Baures, seized and hunting, and cultivating the land, or
to build the thatched huts where their families lived. Mr. Williams had a habit of leaving Dr. Lanham's at exactly nine o'clock, and
so, just before nine, the three came out of Riley's yard, and proceeded in the darkness to
the fence of Lanham's dooryard.

Getting the trunk of one of the large shade-trees between him and the plotters, Jack crept
up close enough to guess what they were doing and to overhear their conversation. Then he came
back to Bob.

"They are tying a string across the sidewalk on Lanham's side of the alley, I believe," whispered
Jack, "so as to throw Mr. Williams head foremost into that mud-hole at the mouth of the alley."

By this time, the three boys had finished their arrangements and retreated through the gate
into the porch of the Riley house, whence they might keep a lookout for the catastrophe. The priests were renowned for practicing physicians and sucks healing.
All believed in the existence of another life.

Itonama.

Under this denomination, there was a nation that was the most numerous in the province of Moxos.
This nation, which probably gave it the name it bears inhabited the northeastern part of the
province, on the banks of the river Itonama, from the great lake to near its confluence with the
Rio Machupo, ie between 13 and 14 degrees south latitude and 65 and 67 west of Paris. Once scattered
in various tribes over land less flooded and amid the forests that adorn the banks of the river,
had for neighbors towards the north, to the Ites or Itenes, east
of Baures, westward to the Canichana; and towards the south to the
Moxos.

The complexion of the Itonama, darker than the Moxos, is equal to
that of the Chapacuras.

His height seems to be generally one of the smallest of the province have the highest barely five
feet and four inches: the women keep the ordinary proportion.

The Itonama differ too much from the other nations of Moxos as to the forms. Very far are they having
such a structure Herculaneum, the bulk of the other bizarre indigenous, and although their backs
are quite wide, the rest of your body, thin and weak, seems to be revealing the lack of strength.
Her legs are so thin and with a joint so outstanding that easily distinguish a Itonama Indian nation
among natives of other nations.

The women, but also lean, they are nevertheless in a less apparent than men: on the contrary, being
of lesser bulk, appear better educated than those of neighboring towns.

If you notice a marked difference in height and forms of Itonama compared with the Moxos, she
is not so remarkable as to the factions, however, face of Itonama, but with the same detail
of form, seems to be less plump and longer that those natural cheek bunions are more protruding
head general is smaller and narrower face. They have small eyes and horizontal. The aspect of
the male is effeminate, and his beard, when they are, very unpopulated. His face, which usually
announces the shyness and sorrow, yet lively, and offers the kind of falsehood and cunning: but
the factions of the men have nothing disgusting, and there are even
some that can go through graceful.

It is not possible to say as much of the women, who are usually ugly.

The language of the Itonama, entirely distinct from the dialects of other nations province, not a
lack of harmony, and if it is hard to the pronunciation of many words the large number of
vowels that employees do sometimes euphonious. Most of the words, that make this language pointed
end in vowels, and the very few that deviate general rule, ending in t, m, s, ch and the French:
the Spanish j is little used, and almost always takes the composite sound of the letters that
accompany them, as JNA, SLB, etc.; the nasal or rare, f and x are quite strangers, also found
the mute e of the French, but very few times. There is meanwhile
no anomaly with respect to the names of body parts. You don't tie top-strings across the sidewalk at night. You're a
gentleman, you are! Arguably however, in this regard, that the
Jesuits were let go very far to the fans Moxos, submitting to the severe regime, reserved only for
the monastery. An immense amount of time was spent by these Indians in the exercise of church,
he often took communion, and the slightest lack religious lashed them to ask themselves as for
any ordinary crime [1]. Father Eguiluz speaking of Holy Week, said that all individuals, without
distinction of age, confessed and communicated. On Friday, while the sermon lasted passion, dábanse
all "many slapping and beating of breasts ... "" After ordering the procession through the square
and main streets carried on a litter package the image of Christ crucified, and in others of the Holy
Virgin, with more than two hundred lights, a big silence and composure do not hear a word, but
the whipping of a large number of penitents blood, dragging ropes and heavy sticks, and other
dresses of Nazareth, with crosses to the shoulders, singing the chorus of musicians the miserere
... "" Several church choirs sing lamentations, for the duration of penance and penitents, they
pass in front of the monument, and most recently bowing discipline to view the image of Christ
crucified [2]. "When a plague ensuing immediately they prayed a novena, accompanied by fasting
and other penances, then, - "every night there talk and act of contrition, and go along the bias to make
discipline, and if some for old, or by the novelty of the exercise, its given with little
force, angry listeners, and scold him to squeeze his hand [3]. "Thus, according to the state's
religious exaggeration Spain at that time, the Jesuits to most of the principles of sound morality
and religion Catholic imposed Moxos fans such corporal punishment, the reviled, removing not
a little to their human dignity.

They left the Jesuit Fathers meantime, since the said year 1696, to
carry out his conquests and taking advantage of fame, and highly publicized,
the well-being enjoyed by the Moxos Christians, formed on, San-Pedro
with Canichana, Santa-Ana with Moximas; Exaltation with Cayuvava,
San-Joaquin, Concepcion, Saint-Simon and Saint-Martin Baures and the
tribes, and finally, with Magdalena Itonama.

It seems, however, that the conversion of these savage nations was not made without cost the lives
of some religious [1]; but it never did weaken the evidence of the Jesuits, who persisted in their
purpose to submit the entire province.

In 1742, the Portuguese adventurers Saint-Paul, who occupied the province of Mato Grosso, made
his first expedition down the river or Guaporé Itenes. So it was when Manuel Lima, accompanied by five
Indians, three mulatto and black, in a canoe down the rivers Guaporé, Mamore, Madeira and Marañon
to the town of order [1].

Little more or less around the same time, calculating the Jesuits the importance of navigation
of rivers, had established the mission of Saint-Simon, Guaporé very immediate, and later, in
1743, the Santa-Rosa, in the same place where it is today Fort Beira
belonging to the Brazilian, ie on the right bank of the river Itenes,
but jealous the Portuguese of such an undertaking, espulsaron the
Jesuits in 1752 [2], under the pretext of that they were blocking
the way on their own property, and Don Antonio Rolin, to seize definitely
the domain of the river, he built the fortress there is today.

After all this, the first care of the monks was reinforcing the existence of missions, introducing
all possible improvements, to this end, Santa-Cruz trageron many cattle, encouraged local people
to farm work; perfected tected, already in practice among Baures, taught all kinds of handicrafts,
and multiplied religious ceremonies and to give them a range of pleasant rest to the workers. Enseñáronles
music and to play all the European instruments, taking also some
parts those used in the country before his arrival.

Created many jobs for the grant award of them, both good conduct, and industrial developments.


"Let go of my arms, Andy!" cried Jack. "You'll drown us both if you hold on that way. If you
don't let go I'll strike you."

Jack knew that it was sometimes necessary to stun a drowning person before you could save him,
where he persisted in clutching his deliverer. But poor frightened Andy let go of Jack's arms
at last. 

He held the man his impetus to the response; meditóla for a few days, decided to done so; corrióse
the news by the people envied his mad fortune Facia all it girls, the case came to the ears
of Don Celso, touched the sky with his hands made the unfortunate crazy in love and without shame
that there was no where to catch it, swore and swore that baratijero was a scoundrel of seven
soles, that there was only looking at his face to convince this, that God knows where he would be
born, and where would have gone to where then, and that the cross of Jesus Christ consider
this and that and beyond ... As if quiet. The spell was swallowed, and Facia not give up a point
in their endeavor. Well persuaded then his master that there was no reasoning can convince her,
nor as rigorous as of planting on the street, not worsen the fate of the unhappy, including
loss view or unhappy, chose the lesser evil after day: a shack that had managed half left to
the lower end of the valley land and livestock agrególe; did, finally, how can becoming a parent
for a child in such cases, and said to Facia after refusing to receive the groom and see the range
of your voice:

- Marry when you please, and weather there for, even, even when grief kill you, you die in his own
bed after asking God for forgiveness of your ingratitude and madness.

A few days of married with great pomp, baratijero, it was another man other than what was in
place before marriage, until the face looked different, especially when talking to his wife
who spoke little, looked low and evil, and it seemed that bothered him until his shadow. One
month after this, he did not know to work the land or manage livestock, and those wealth that had
"for his home," said the bachelor, did not see a penny to raise the burdens of their new state,
took what was left of his tenducho and went to run fairs and markets with it.


And here I must do the last two boys the justice to say that they called to inquire after Jack
every day during the illness that followed, and the old animosity to Jack was never afterward
revived by Pewee and his friends. She shivered suddenly saw me beside her, and apologized for having taken by ... I
did not say why or by whom, but began to mourn and fled into hiding in fourth border to the
door of the staircase, which she lived and Tona. At a time I found myself alone with my uncle,
before picking me up that night, I spoke of the event. Of Suddenly I felt somewhat piqued
the curiosity, but then changed his appearance, he shrugged shoulder and said:

- It is the unhappy mema. The same had been done before Agathocles in Africa, Cordoba muladíes in Crete, and Aragonese
and Catalans at Gallipoli. William Tell is also not the first, which forced to it by the tyrant,
remove the apple with an arrow head of his son. These sets, or real or invented by the popular
imagination, wandering back and forth first, unfinished look good, no great consistency gain
and glory, the hero of the set.

Overshoot after the village with a hero whom the set is set as block
and made to order. 

Martha in the garden look and speak Faust and Marguerite. Margarita is now captive, wounded in the
heart, fired by an irresistible and inexhaustible affection.

This is followed by a beautiful soliloquy of Faust in a forest. Faust
hesitates.