OSCAR WILDE--SHORTER PROSE PIECES

Contents:

Phrases And Philosophies for the Use of The Young Mrs. Langtry as Hester Grazebrook Slaves
of Fashion Woman's Dress More Radical Ideas upon Dress Reform Costume The American Invasion
Sermons in Stones at Bloomsbury L'Envoi

PHRASES AND PHILOSOPHIES FOR THE USE OF THE YOUNG

The first duty in life is to be as artificial as possible.  What the second duty is no one
has as yet discovered.

Wickedness is a myth invented by good people to account for the curious attractiveness of others.

If the poor only had profiles there would be no difficulty in solving the problem of poverty.

Those who see any difference between soul and body have neither.

A really well-made buttonhole is the only link between Art and Nature.

Religions die when they are proved to be true.  Science is the record of dead religions.

The well-bred contradict other people.  The wise contradict themselves.

Nothing that actually occurs is of the smallest importance.

Dulness is the coming of age of seriousness.

In all unimportant matters, style, not sincerity, is the essential. In all important matters,
style, not sincerity, is the essential.

If one tells the truth one is sure, sooner or later, to be found out.

Pleasure is the only thing one should live for.  Nothing ages like happiness.

It is only by not paying one's bills that one can hope to live in the memory of the commercial
classes.

No crime is vulgar, but all vulgarity is crime.  Vulgarity is the conduct of others.

Only the shallow know themselves.

Time is waste of money.

One should always be a little improbable.

There is a fatality about all good resolutions.  They are invariably made too soon.

The only way to atone for being occasionally a little overdressed is by being always absolutely
overeducated.

To be premature is to be perfect.

Any preoccupation with ideas of what is right or wrong in conduct shows an arrested intellectual
development.

Ambition is the last refuge of the failure.

A truth ceases to be true when more than one person believes in it.

In examinations the foolish ask questions that the wise cannot answer.

Greek dress was in its essence inartistic.  Nothing should reveal the body but the body.

One should either be a work of art, or wear a work of art.

It is only the superficial qualities that last.  Man's deeper nature is soon found out.

Industry is the root of all ugliness.

The ages live in history through their anachronisms.

It is only the gods who taste of death.  Apollo has passed away, but Hyacinth, whom men say
he slew, lives on.  Nero and Narcissus are always with us.

The old believe everything:  the middle-aged suspect everything; the young know everything.

The condition of perfection is idleness:  the aim of perfection is youth.

Only the great masters of style ever succeeded in being obscure.

There is something tragic about the enormous number of young men there are in England at the
present moment who start life with perfect profiles, and end by adopting some useful profession.

To love oneself is the beginning of a life-long romance.

MRS. LANGTRY AS HESTER GRAZEBROOK

It is only in the best Greek gems, on the silver coins of Syracuse, or among the marble figures
of the Parthenon frieze, that one can find the ideal representation of the marvellous beauty
of that face which laughed through the leaves last night as Hester Grazebrook.

Pure Greek it is, with the grave low forehead, the exquisitely arched brow; the noble chiselling
of the mouth, shaped as if it were the mouthpiece of an instrument of music; the supreme and
splendid curve of the cheek; the augustly pillared throat which bears it all:  it is Greek,
because the lines which compose it are so definite and so strong, and yet so exquisitely harmonized
that the effect is one of simple loveliness purely:  Greek, because its essence and its quality,
as is the quality of music and of architecture, is that of beauty based on absolutely mathematical
laws.

But while art remains dumb and immobile in its passionless serenity, with the beauty of this
face it is different:  the grey eyes lighten into blue or deepen into violet as fancy succeeds
fancy; the lips become flower-like in laughter or, tremulous as a bird's wing, mould themselves
at last into the strong and bitter moulds of pain or scorn.  And then motion comes, and the
statue wakes into life.  But the life is not the ordinary life of common days; it is life with
a new value given to it, the value of art: and the charm to me of Hester Grazebrook's acting
in the first scene of the play last night was that mingling of classic grace with absolute
reality which is the secret of all beautiful art, of the plastic work of the Greeks and of
the pictures of Jean Francois Millet equally.

I do not think that the sovereignty and empire of women's beauty has at all passed away, though
we may no longer go to war for them as the Greeks did for the daughter of Leda.  The greatest
empire still remains for them--the empire of art.  And, indeed, this wonderful face, seen last
night for the first time in America, has filled and permeated with the pervading image of its
type the whole of our modern art in England.  Last century it was the romantic type which dominated
in art, the type loved by Reynolds and Gainsborough, of wonderful contrasts of colour, of exquisite
and varying charm of expression, but without that definite plastic feeling which divides classic
from romantic work.  This type degenerated into mere facile prettiness in the hands of lesser
masters, and, in protest against it, was created by the hands of the Pre-Raphaelites a new
type, with its rare combination of Greek form with Florentine mysticism.  But this mysticism
becomes over- strained and a burden, rather than an aid to expression, and a desire for the
pure Hellenic joy and serenity came in its place; and in all our modern work, in the paintings
of such men as Albert Moore and Leighton and Whistler, we can trace the influence of this single
face giving fresh life and inspiration in the form of a new artistic ideal.

WOMAN'S DRESS

The "Girl Graduate" must of course have precedence, not merely for her sex but for her sanity:
her letter is extremely sensible.  She makes two points:  that high heels are a necessity for
any lady who wishes to keep her dress clean from the Stygian mud of our streets, and that without
a tight corset the ordinary number of petticoats and etceteras' cannot be properly or conveniently
held up.  Now, it is quite true that as long as the lower garments are suspended from the hips
a corset is an absolute necessity; the mistake lies in not suspending all apparel from the
shoulders.  In the latter case a corset becomes useless, the body is left free and unconfined
for respiration and motion, there is more health, and consequently more beauty.  Indeed all
the most ungainly and uncomfortable articles of dress that fashion has ever in her folly prescribed,
not the tight corset merely, but the farthingale, the vertugadin, the hoop, the crinoline,
and that modern monstrosity the so-called "dress improver" also, all of them have owed their
origin to the same error, the error of not seeing that it is from the shoulders, and from the
shoulders only, that all garments should be hung.

And as regards high heels, I quite admit that some additional height to the shoe or boot is
necessary if long gowns are to be worn in the street; but what I object to is that the height
should be given to the heel only, and not to the sole of the foot also. The modern high-heeled
boot is, in fact, merely the clog of the time of Henry VI., with the front prop left out, and
its inevitable effect is to throw the body forward, to shorten the steps, and consequently
to produce that want of grace which always follows want of freedom.

Why should clogs be despised?  Much art has been expended on clogs. They have been made of
lovely woods, and delicately inlaid with ivory, and with mother-of-pearl.  A clog might be
a dream of beauty, and, if not too high or too heavy, most comfortable also. But if there be
any who do not like clogs, let them try some adaptation of the trouser of the Turkish lady,
which is loose round the limb and tight at the ankle.

The "Girl Graduate," with a pathos to which I am not insensible, entreats me not to apotheosize
"that awful, befringed, beflounced, and bekilted divided skirt."  Well, I will acknowledge
that the fringes, the flounces, and the kilting do certainly defeat the whole object of the
dress, which is that of ease and liberty; but I regard these things as mere wicked superfluities,
tragic proofs that the divided skirt is ashamed of its own division.  The principle of the
dress is good, and, though it is not by any means perfection, it is a step towards it.

Here I leave the "Girl Graduate," with much regret, for Mr. Wentworth Huyshe.  Mr. Huyshe makes
the old criticism that Greek dress is unsuited to our climate, and, to me the somewhat new
assertion, that the men's dress of a hundred years ago was preferable to that of the second
part of the seventeenth century, which I consider to have been the exquisite period of English
costume.

Now, as regards the first of these two statements, I will say, to begin with, that the warmth
of apparel does not depend really on the number of garments worn, but on the material of which
they are made.  One of the chief faults of modern dress is that it is composed of far too many
articles of clothing, most of which are of the wrong substance; but over a substratum of pure
wool, such as is supplied by Dr. Jaeger under the modern German system, some modification of
Greek costume is perfectly applicable to our climate, our country and our century.  This important
fact has already been pointed out by Mr. E. W. Godwin in his excellent, though too brief handbook
on Dress, contributed to the Health Exhibition.  I call it an important fact because it makes
almost any form of lovely costume perfectly practicable in our cold climate.  Mr. Godwin, it
is true, points out that the English ladies of the thirteenth century abandoned after some
time the flowing garments of the early Renaissance in favour of a tighter mode, such as Northern
Europe seems to demand.  This I quite admit, and its significance; but what I contend, and
what I am sure Mr. Godwin would agree with me in, is that the principles, the laws of Greek
dress may be perfectly realized, even in a moderately tight gown with sleeves:  I mean the
principle of suspending all apparel from the shoulders, and of relying for beauty of effect
not on the stiff ready-made ornaments of the modern milliner--the bows where there should be
no bows, and the flounces where there should be no flounces--but on the exquisite play of light
and line that one gets from rich and rippling folds.  I am not proposing any antiquarian revival
of an ancient costume, but trying merely to point out the right laws of dress, laws which are
dictated by art and not by archaeology, by science and not by fashion; and just as the best
work of art in our days is that which combines classic grace with absolute reality, so from
a continuation of the Greek principles of beauty with the German principles of health will
come, I feel certain, the costume of the future.

And now to the question of men's dress, or rather to Mr. Huyshe's claim of the superiority,
in point of costume, of the last quarter of the eighteenth century over the second quarter
of the seventeenth.  The broad-brimmed hat of 1640 kept the rain of winter and the glare of
summer from the face; the same cannot be said of the hat of one hundred years ago, which, with
its comparatively narrow brim and high crown, was the precursor of the modern "chimney-pot":
a wide turned-down collar is a healthier thing than a strangling stock, and a short cloak much
more comfortable than a sleeved overcoat, even though the latter may have had "three capes";
a cloak is easier to put on and off, lies lightly on the shoulder in summer, and wrapped round
one in winter keeps one perfectly warm.  A doublet, again, is simpler than a coat and waistcoat;
instead of two garments one has one; by not being open also it protects the chest better.

Short loose trousers are in every way to be preferred to the tight knee-breeches which often
impede the proper circulation of the blood; and finally, the soft leather boots which could
be worn above or below the knee, are more supple, and give consequently more freedom, than
the stiff Hessian which Mr. Huyshe so praises. I say nothing about the question of grace and
picturesqueness, for I suppose that no one, not even Mr. Huyshe, would prefer a maccaroni to
a cavalier, a Lawrence to a Vandyke, or the third George to the first Charles; but for ease,
warmth and comfort this seventeenth-century dress is infinitely superior to anything that came
after it, and I do not think it is excelled by any preceding form of costume.  I sincerely
trust that we may soon see in England some national revival of it.

MORE RADICAL IDEAS UPON DRESS REFORM

I have been much interested at reading the large amount of correspondence that has been called
forth by my recent lecture on Dress.  It shows me that the subject of dress reform is one that
is occupying many wise and charming people, who have at heart the principles of health, freedom,
and beauty in costume, and I hope that "H. B. T." and "Materfamilias" will have all the real
influence which their letters--excellent letters both of them-- certainly deserve.

