From the highest hill on the south-eastern point I had obtained a most excellent view of Corner
Inlet, which bore a great resemblance to a basin. I have before called it useless, from its
being only navigable a mile or two within the entrance and that chiefly on the northern side,
the rest being occupied by mud flats. It was a bitter cold day; but between the sleet squalls
I was able to trace the coast westward as far as Cape Liptrap over the low neck connecting
Wilson's Promontory with the main, and forming the south-western shore of Corner Basin; and
eastward beyond Shallow Inlet,* where the Clonmel steamer was lost. About six miles to the
north-east the masts of some vessels pointed out the approach to Alberton. The intervening
space was filled with islands and mud banks; which character the shore appeared to retain further
eastward, being fronted by a margin of low sandy land, sometimes broken by the pressure of
the sea from without or of the waters from within, when the streams that add to the fertility
of Gipps' Land are swollen by the melting of the snows on the Australian Alps.

(*Footnote. Vessels bound to Alberton, the capital of Gipps' Land, generally pass through this
inlet, but as the water is shallow, and breaks across the entrance, if there is any swell,
it is more prudent to enter by Corner Inlet, and take the second opening on the right within
the entrance.)

STRZELECKI.

To commemorate my friend Count Strzelecki's discovery of this important and valuable district,
which he named in honour of His Excellency the Governor, I called the summit of a woody range
2110 feet high, over the north shore of Corner Inlet, Mount Fatigue.* The only vegetation this
part of the promontory supports is a wiry grass, stunted gums and banksias in the valleys,
and a few grass-trees near the crests of the hills which are generally bare masses of granite.
Behind a sandy beach on the east side beneath where I stood were sinuous lines of low sandhills,
remarkable for their regularity, resembling the waves that rolled in on the shore.

(*Footnote. It was in the rear of this range that Count Strzelecki and his companions, on their
way to Western Port, experienced the sufferings related in the Port Phillip Herald, June 1840,
from which I extract the following: "The party was now in a most deplorable condition. Messrs.
MacArthur and Riley and their attendants had become so exhausted as to be unable to cope with
the difficulties which beset their progress. The Count, being more inured to the fatigues and
privations attendant upon a pedestrian journey through the wilds of our inhospitable interior,
alone retained possession of his strength, and although burdened with a load of instruments
and papers of forty-five pounds weight, continued to pioneer his exhausted companions day after
day through an almost impervious tea-tree scrub, closely interwoven with climbing grasses,
vines, willows, fern and reeds. Here the Count was to be seen breaking a passage with his hands
and knees through the centre of the scrub; there throwing himself at full length among the
dense underwood, and thus opening by the weight of his body a pathway for his companions in
distress. Thus the party inch by inch forced their way; the incessant rains preventing them
from taking rest by night or day. Their provisions, during the last eighteen days of their
journey, consisted of a very scanty supply of the flesh of the native bear or monkey, but for
which, the only game the country afforded, the travellers must have perished from utter starvation...On
the twenty-second day after they had abandoned their horses, the travellers came in sight of
Western Port.")

SEALER'S COVE.

Water and fuel are abundant on the point abreast of Rabbit Island. Southward from this projection
a sandy beach extends five miles, with a rivulet at either end, and separated from a small
deep bay* open to the east, by a remarkable bluff, the abrupt termination of a high-woody ridge.
The trees on the south-west side were large and measured eight feet in diameter. In the humid
shelter they afforded the tree and a variety of other kinds of fern were growing in great luxuriance,
with a profusion of creepers matted together in a dense mass of rich foliage. From thence southwards
the shore is rocky and the water deep.

(*Footnote. This bay is evidently Sealer's Cove in the old charts; but this part of the Strait
is so much in error that it is hardly possible to recognize any particular point.)

REFUGE COVE.

Refuge Cove, lying seven miles South 1/4 West from Rabbit Island, was our next anchorage. It
was so named from its being the only place a vessel can find shelter in from the eastward on
this side of the Promontory. Of this we ourselves felt the benefit; for although in the middle
of June east winds prevailed the first few days we stayed there, with thick hazy weather, whilst
at Rabbit Island we had constant westerly gales with a great deal of hail and sleet. This small
cove, being only a cable wide at the entrance may be recognized by Kersop Peak, which rises
over the south part, and from its lying between Cape Wellington and Horn Point,* and also from
its being the first sandy beach that opens north of the former.

(*Footnote. This projection has two pointed hummocks on it resembling horns.)

Such of us as had been in Tierra del Fuego were particularly struck with the resemblance of
the scenery in Refuge Cove; the smooth quiet sand beaches, and dense forests reaching the water's
edge, the mist-capped hills, and the gusts that swept down the valleys and roared through the
rigging, forcibly recalled to our recollection that region of storms.

We found a whaling establishment in the south-east corner,* and the houses for the boats and
their crews formed quite a little village. The person in charge, with one or two others, remains
during the summer. These people had a novel safeguard against the attacks of the natives: a
horrible looking figure, dressed so as to represent the evil spirit, of which the Australian
aborigines are so much afraid, was placed in a conspicuous place; but whether it would have
had the desired effect was not proved, as the natives had never been seen in those parts. There
can, indeed, be little to tempt them to wander thither; for there are neither kangaroos nor
wallabies, and but few birds. Among the most curious of those belonging to the land, is a kind
of finch, with a black head, yellow beak, a dark brown back, and dirty white belly; across
the wings and arching over the back, at the stump of the tail, was a stripe of white.

(*Footnote. Our observations made this spot in latitude 39 degrees 02 minutes 30 seconds South,
and longitude 4 degrees 44 minutes 45 seconds West of Sydney. High-water on the full and change
of the moon, takes place at 12 hours 5 minutes when the tide rises eight feet; a mile in the
offing the northern and ebb stream, which runs from one to two knots, begins at 11 hours 40
minutes. Past the south end of the promontory the same stream sweeps round from the westward,
sometimes at the rate of two knots and a half.)

WATERLOO BAY.

Cape Wellington, the eastern projection of the Promontory, forms the north point of Waterloo
Bay, which is wide and spacious. These names were suggested by the fact that the day of our
anchoring there was the anniversary of one of the greatest triumphs ever achieved by British
arms. At the head of the bay, lies the low valley, three miles in length, which stretches across
the promontory and forms a very conspicuous break in the high land. On the northern side of
it, the highest hill, Mount Wilson, rises abruptly until its woody crest reaches an elevation
of 2350 feet. On the southern, was a ridge strewn over with immense boulders of granite, one,
near where I stood, measuring eighty feet in height, and resting with such apparent insecurity,
that little seemed required to send it rolling and crashing into the valley below, along which
a rivulet winds, and falls into the sea at the north end of a sandy beach, forming the head
of Waterloo Bay. The depth in the middle of the latter is 12 fathoms, muddy bottom; it lies
four miles from the south end of the Promontory, and there is no good anchorage between.

SAIL FOR PORT DALRYMPLE.

From a small flattened sugarloaf, forming the summit of Cape Wellington, I got an angle to
the Crocodile Rock,* and with others from the south-west end of the Promontory, and from the
ship on passing, I determined the position of this danger most satisfactorily.

(*Footnote. This rock, in latitude 39 degrees 21 minutes 30 seconds South, and longitude 4
degrees 41 minutes 45 seconds West of Sydney, lies in a line midway between the western extremities
of Curtis and Rodondo Islands, nearly nine miles from each. It is a smooth round-topped granite
boulder, just protruding above the surface; and in fine weather the sea runs over it without
breaking. The depth being 43 fathoms close to it, if the waters of the Strait were drawn off
the shape of it would be that of a column nearly 260 feet high.)

As we had not, as I expected, met the Vansittart, I was anxious to learn something of her,
and crossing over to the south side of the Strait, for the purpose, entered Port Dalrymple,
where I found that Mr. Forsyth and his party had preceded our arrival by a day or two. The
Vansittart's employment had been the examination of the north-east extreme of Tasmania, some
portions of which were found to be nine miles out in latitude; the greater part was fronted
with kelp and rocky patches. The work, also, included a portion of Banks' Strait, and the southern
part of the western side of Flinders Island, among the islets fronting which were discovered
several good anchorages: the best in westerly winds being under Goose or Western Chappell Island,
where a lighthouse was in course of construction.

YORK TOWN.

His Excellency, Sir John Franklin, requesting that I would send the Vansittart round to Macquarie
Harbour, on the west coast, after a party of runaway convicts, we were for a time deprived
of her services. As the rise of the tide in the Tamar was sufficient for laying the ship ashore,
I took the opportunity of doing so on the west bank, just above Garden Island, to examine her
bottom, and found it so defective that 130 sheets of copper were required to make good the
damage; in some places the two-inch sheathing was completely destroyed. The original settlement,
York Town, was at the head of a shoal bight just above us; I found it almost quite in ruins,
though there were one or two of the original settlers there; the chief part of the inhabitants
were a lawless set, who were said to live, chiefly, by plunder.

LAUNCESTON.

Whilst the ship underwent these repairs, the triangulation was extended to Launceston,* at
the head of the Tamar, thirty miles from the sea. Large vessels are prevented from approaching
close to the town by a bar. The greatest difficulty found in navigating the river is Whirlpool
Reach; near the middle of this lies a rock, an attempt to remove which, by blasting, was made;
the top was blown off, so that now vessels are liable to be carried upon it, whereas, before,
when it broke the surface, such was not the case.

(*Footnote. The latitude of the Port office I found to be 41 degrees 26 minutes 5 seconds South
longitude 4 degrees 42 minutes 24 seconds West of Sydney. High water 3 hours 35 minutes; springs
rise 12 feet. During the winter, after rains, the stream sets down for days together at the
rate of from one to three knots.)

The valley, through which the Tamar winds, is narrow, with sides generally steep and densely
wooded; in some places, the reaches are wide, and the hills recede; on their lower slopes,
near Launceston, are situated many pretty villas, peeping through garden shrubberies; whilst
further down are the straggling habitations of the more recent settlers, surrounded by clear
patches, with difficulty won from the forest by the axe and the firebrand. On the whole, therefore,
it may be said that art and nature combine to render beautiful the scenery on the banks of
this important stream.

The first view of Launceston, the second town in Tasmania, is very pretty. The valley of the
river expands as you approach, and over a low tract of land on the east bank, the straggling
mass of buildings forming the town is descried. Though very healthy it lies on a kind of flat,
backed with open woodland undulations at the junction of the North and South Esks; and, during
the winter, is subject to fogs so dense that many persons well acquainted with the town frequently
lose themselves. Where the streams unite, they become the Tamar, one of the principal rivers
in Tasmania. At the distance of half a mile from the confluence, the North Esk makes a by no
means insignificant waterfall. This forms one of the first sights to which strangers arriving
at Launceston are conducted, by a path which, winding along the face of a precipice, suddenly
brings the cataract in sight, tumbling and roaring over the rocks into the pool, which seethes
like a cauldron below, and sends up a steaming mist into the air. From the waters of the South
Esk, the country around Launceston derives its fertility; and perhaps there is no part of our
southern colonies that more resembles England. The number of gentlemen's seats, before alluded
to, thickly scattered over an undulating country cleared of all timber, save a few monumental
trees, and well cultivated, strongly suggested thoughts of home.

GEORGE TOWN.

When the weather permitted, the boats were employed in continuing the survey of Port Dalrymple.
Observations were made at the flagstaff in George Town,* which we found to be in latitude 41
degrees 6 minutes 20 seconds South and longitude 4 degrees 23 minutes 44 seconds West of Sydney;
variation 9 3/4 East. This place is only a straggling village, situated on the east bank, about
three miles and a half from the mouth of the Tamar, upon a flat, forming the north side of
a snug cove at the western foot of a group of conical hills; on one of them is a signal station,
by means of which, with another intervening, communication is kept up with Launceston.

(*Footnote. The geological formation in the neighbourhood of this place will be found in Volume 1.)

CRAGGY ISLAND.

The entire month of July was occupied by the repairs of the ship, and the surveying operations;
when we sailed from the Tamar and examined the passage at the eastern entrance of the strait,
between Craggy Island and Flinders, which we found perfectly free from danger--a fact of great
importance, as it had, hitherto, been reported full of sunken rocks. The Beagle passed a mile
and a half from the south side of Craggy Island in 25 and 28 fathoms. This passage has a depth
of 26 and 27 fathoms, and is six miles wide, whilst between Wright's Rock and Kent Group the
width is nearly eleven miles. There appears, by the ripplings, to be foul ground between Craggy
Island and Endeavour Reef, and the space intervening has, accordingly, been marked as one shoal
in the chart.

THE BEAGLE ORDERED HOME.

Leaving the eastern entrance of the strait, we ran up to Sydney, for the supplies that had
not arrived from England on our last visit; we now found them waiting for us, together with
orders for the Beagle to return to England. Fortunately, however, the survey of Bass Strait
was in such a forward state, thanks to Sir John Franklin's kind assistance in lending the Vansittart,
that I could take upon myself the responsibility of waiting a few months to complete it.* I
was, however, compelled by the brief interval of time allowed me, and the urgent demand that
existed for a correct chart of the whole strait, to work on a smaller scale than I could have
wished. It seemed to me that detached portions on a very large scale would be of far inferior
utility to a complete survey on a comparatively small one.

(*Footnote. This step was approved of by the Commander in chief.)

It was not, however, my being prevented from completing Bass Strait in the manner most satisfactory
to myself that occasioned the greatest part of the regret that accompanied this summons for
the old Beagle to wend her way homewards; for we were thus also deprived of the opportunity
of gratifying our desire to explore the southern parts of New Guinea, which we had always looked
forward to as one of the most interesting parts of our voyage, containing elements of excitement
sufficient to cheer the hearts that were yearning for home, and a character of novelty that
would have amply compensated for whatever fatigue and exertion we might have experienced. On
many occasions, during the heavy and monotonous part of our labours, the anticipated delights
of discovery refreshed our imaginations and elevated our spirits, imparting to our most irksome
occupations an interest that did not belong to them, but was borrowed from those hoped-for
scenes of adventure on the unvisited shores of New Guinea to which we believed that each dull
day's hard work brought us nearer. But it was not destined to be our lot to add any more new
lands to the geography of this part of the world; and H.M.S. Fly and Bramble had been commissioned
at home for surveying service in Australasia. This expedition, under the command of Captain
F.P. Blackwood, arrived at Sydney on the 10th of October, whilst we were there, and sailed
soon after our departure, to commence tracing the outer Barrier Reefs, a service attended with
no ordinary risk, but which has been happily completed, and a beacon erected to show vessels
the best entrance, without a mishap.

Since the early part of this work was written this valuable addition to the survey of New Holland
has induced an enterprising master of a merchant vessel to try the eastward passage through
Torres Strait. As a proof of the practicability of this route I may state, that the above vessel
passed through Torres Strait in January, went to Sydney, and returned for another cargo to
Ballytown, in Allas Strait, by the May following. This passage, an account of which has been
published in the Nautical Magazine, was made through the Barrier Reef by Captain Blackwood's
Beacon on Raines Islet; but as this is out of the limits of the westerly monsoon, a better
passage, doubtless, would have been effected by following a more northerly route, as recommended
by Captain Blackwood.*

(*Footnote. See Nautical Magazine for December 1845.)

STEAM COMMUNICATION BETWEEN INDIA AND AUSTRALIA.

With reference, however, to the anticipated steam communication* between India and Australia,
which will bring Sydney within nearly sixty days of England, I think with Captain Blackwood
that steamers should at all times use Captain King's inner route;** and much of the delay occasioned
by anchoring at night would be obviated by cautiously approaching, at reduced speed, the reefs,
the position of which might be distinguished by means of a powerful light at the vessel's head
or bowsprit end; when a course might be shaped for the next and so on. As the smooth water
within the shelter of the Great Barrier Reefs affords facilities for steering with great nicety,
a steamer, with care, might effect a saving of fuel as well as time by passing through Torres
Strait without anchoring.

(*Footnote.  Steam communication between Sydney and Singapore would require three vessels of
six hundred tons, one of which should leave Sydney and Singapore on the 1st of each month.
Their engines should be of 200 horse-power, and furnished with tubular boilers, which consume
a fifth less fuel than the others; they must carry at the least 200 tons, which, at the rate
of 14 tons per diem, is sufficient for fourteen days fullspeed steaming, in which time, at
the rate of 7 knots an hour, 2,352 miles will have been traversed, which is about 100 miles
more than the distance between Sydney and Port Essington, and about 420 miles more than between
the latter place and Singapore. This clearly shows that Port Essington is, as I have before
stated, the best place for a coal-depot; and that one there would suffice for the whole line
of communication. As, moreover, it is necessary that such a station should have protection
against the natives, it further enhances the value of the settlement at Port Essington. This
depot might be economically made, from the cheapness and abundance of coals in New South Wales;
and the number of ships that are constantly passing Port Essington in ballast would be glad
of the freight so far. The cost of steam vessels of the size mentioned would be about 20,000
pounds, if built of wood, and 16,000 pounds, if of iron; and the annual expense of running
one would be between 3,000 and 4000 pounds.)

(**Footnote. On this inshore track steamers would be able to replace with wood any deficiency
in their fuel. I take this opportunity of saying that vessels carrying troops from Sydney to
India should be compelled to use it, the chances of the loss of life being much less. On one
occasion a ship called the Ferguson sailed from Sydney with part of a regiment, whilst we were
there. The master ridiculed the advice given him by one of the Beagle's officers, to take the
inner passage. The next news we heard of her was, that she had been wrecked on the outer Barrier
at four in the morning; no observation having been taken since the previous noon, by which
they might have found a current drifting them to the northward. Fortunately, another ship was
in company, and saved the loss of life, but that of property was great. The fact that the lives
of so many souls should be placed at the mercy of careless masters of ships, who run such risks,
in spite of the warnings of experience, deserves the serious attention of Government.)

NEW GUINEA.

The part of New Guinea above alluded to, which had often afforded us the materials of interesting
speculation, also formed part of the survey of Captain Blackwood, who writes as follows: "On
the coast of New Guinea we found a delta of fine rivers, and a numerous population, all indicating
a rich and fruitful country. It is true that we found the inhabitants very hostile; but it
must be considered that we were the first Europeans that they had ever seen; and I have no
doubt that, on a further acquaintance, and convinced of our power, they might be easily conciliated.
Their houses, arms, and cultivation, all indicate a considerable degree of civilization, and
no small intelligence in the construction of their canoes; and I think it probable that a trade
might be opened with this hitherto perfectly unknown people and country."* The people inhabiting
the islands fronting the coast, Captain Blackwood found to be highly inclined to trade, readily
bartering a valuable species of tortoise-shell for European articles of hardware.

(*Footnote. See Nautical Magazine for December 1845.)

H.M.S. FAVOURITE.

