The reading finished, the other declaration in favour of the Comte de Toulouse was immediately
commenced by the 'greffier', according to the command of the Keeper of the Seals, who had given
them to him both together.  It seemed to complete the confusion of the Chief-President and
the friends of the Duc du Maine, by the contrast between the treatment of the two brothers.

After the Advocate-General had spoken, the Keeper of the Seals mounted to the King, with the
opinions of the Princes of the Blood; then came to the Duc de Sully and me.  Fortunately I
had more memory than he had, or wished to have; therefore it was exactly my affair.  I presented
to him my hat with a bunch of feathers in the front, in an express manner very marked, saying
to him loudly enough: "No, Monsieur, we cannot be judges; we are parties to the cause, and
we have only to thank the King for the justice he renders us."

He smiled and made an excuse.  I pushed him away before the Duc de Sully had time to open his
mouth; and looking round I saw with pleasure that my refusal had been marked by everybody. The servant went out to Heater
back and said in a tone as he trusted him of something: "Scissors is immediately out of the room!
"

The fireman looked down to this answer to Karl, as this was his heart, he silently his lamentations.
Without further reflection is freed Karl, ran across the room, that he even slightly to the chair
of the officer touched the servant ran to embrace with bent prepare arms as he chasing a pest, but
Charles was the first at the table of the chief cashier, where he
was holding, in the event that the servant should try him move away.

Of course, like the whole room came alive. The ship's officer at the table jumped up, the gentlemen
of the Port Authority saw quiet but carefully, the two men at the window were entered next
to each other, the servant, who thought he was there, where even the high Men showed interest,
not out of place, resigned.

The heater at the door waiting tense at the moment, until his help was needed. The chief purser
was finally in his armchair, a large right turn.

Karl rummaged in his secret pocket, which he shows to the eyes of these people have no concerns
had produced his passport, which he laid open instead of further
idea on the table. The chief cashier seemed to hold the passport as
secondary, as he flicked it with two Fingers aside, what Karl is,
as this formality completed to the satisfaction of the pass again
pocketed.  The Chief- President, stunned by this last thunder-bolt, elongated his face so surprisingly,
that I thought for a moment his chin had fallen upon his knees.

However, the Keeper of the Seals having called upon the King's people to speak, they replied
that they had not heard the proposition of M. le Duc, therefore his paper was passed to them
from hand to hand, during which the Keeper of the Seals repeated very kindly what the Regent
had added upon the seniority of the Marechal de Villeroy over the Duc du Maine. Blancmesnil
merely threw his eyes upon the paper of M. le Duc, and spoke, after which the Keeper of the
Seals put it to the vote.  I gave mine loud enough, and said, "As for this affair I vote with
all my heart for giving the superintendence of the King's education to M. le Duc."

The votes being taken, the Keeper, of the Seals called the chief 'greffier', ordered him to
bring his paper and his little bureau near his, so as to do all at once; and in presence of
the King register everything that had been read and resolved, and signed also.  This was done
without any difficulty, according to forms, under the eyes of the Keeper of the Seals, who
never raised them: but as there were five or six documents to register they took up a long time.

I had well observed the King when his education was in question, and I remarked in him no sort
of alteration, change, or constraint.  This was the last act of the drama: he was quite lively
now the registrations commenced.  However, as there were no more speeches to occupy him, he
laughed with those near, amused himself with everything, even remarking that the Duc de Louvigny
had on a velvet coat, and laughed at the heat he must feel, and all this with grace.  This
indifference for M. du Maine struck everybody, and publicly contradicted what his partisans
tried to publish, viz., that his eyes had been red, but that neither at the Bed of justice,
nor since, he had dared to show his trouble.  The truth is he had his eyes dry and serene the
whole time, and pronounced the name of the Duc du Maine only once since, which was after dinner
the same day, when he asked where he had gone, with a very indifferent air, without saying
a word more, then or since, or naming his children, who took little trouble to see him; and
when they went it was in order to have even in his presence their little court apart, and to
divert themselves among themselves.  As for the Duc du Maine, either from policy or because
he thought it not yet time, he only, saw the King in the morning, sometimes in his bed, and
not at all during the rest of the day, except when obliged by his functions.

During the registration I gently passed my eyes over the whole assembly., and though I constantly
constrained them, I could not resist the temptation to indemnify myself upon the Chief-President;
I perseveringly overwhelmed him, therefore, a hundred different times during the sitting, with
my hard-hitting regards.  Insult, contempt, disdain, triumph, were darted at him from my eyes,--and
pierced him to the very marrow often he lowered his eyes when he caught my gaze once or twice
he raised his upon me, and I took pleasure in annoying him by sly but malicious smiles which
completed his vexation.  I bathed myself in his rage, and amused myself by making him feel
it. 

"You could understand, young man, your luck," said the captain, by Charles the question Dignity
of the person of Mr. Jacob believed injured, who had placed the window, evidently, to be excited
face he also dabbed with a handkerchief, not the other the need to show. "It is Senator Edward
Jacob, who identify themselves to you as your uncle been added. You will now, but probably quite
contrary to your previous expectations, a brilliant career. Try to see this, as much as the
first moment is, and Keep it! "

"However, I have an uncle Jacob in America," said Karl turned to the captain, "but if I understand
correctly, Jacob is only the last name of the Lord's senator. "

"That's it," said the captain expectantly.

"Well, my uncle Jacob, who is the brother of my mother's name, but
with the Christian name Jacob, while his last name, of course, would
be equal to that of my mother, who was born a Bendel Mayer.

"

"Gentlemen," cried the Senator, who was returning from his recreation
items at the window alert, with respect to Charles declaration.

All, except for port officials, broke into laughter, as in some emotion,
some impenetrable.

"Such was ridiculous what I have said, but by no means," thought Charles.

"Gentlemen," repeated the senator, "you take against your will and against my a small family
scene and partially why I can not help you an explanation to Card, because, as I believe only
the captain "- had this mention of a mutual Bow result -.

"Is fully informed"

"Now I have to really pay attention to every word said to Karl, and rejoiced when he remarked with a sideways
look that return to the figure of the heater's life began.

"I'm all for the long years of my stay in America - the word stay fits here but bad for American
citizens, I am with all my soul - since all the years I have lived
so long by my European relatives separated completely, for reasons
that do not belong here first, and secondly to tell, really would
be very hernehmen.

I am afraid even before the moment when I might be forced will be, they love to tell my nephew,
and, unfortunately, to speak openly about his Parents and their followers
will be unavoidable.

"

"It is my uncle, no doubt," said Karl and listened, "he probably has his Name can be changed.
"

"My dear nephew is now on his parents - we only say the word that the thing really known - were
simply stashed away, how to throw a cat out the door when they angry.

I do not entirely gloss over what has made my nephew, that he thus punished but was the fault
is such that its easy enough excuse Name contains. "

"This is something like," thought Charles, "but I do not want him to tell it all. By the way can
he also do not know. Where then? "

"He was in fact," said the uncle, and supported himself with small inclinations to the front
he is propped bamboo cane, which he actually succeeded, to the cause
unnecessary taking ceremony, which they would otherwise have been
absolutely, he "was in fact a Maid, Johanna Brummer, an approximately
35 year old person deceived. I want to with the word "Seduce" my nephew
does not quite hurt, but it's hard to be an equal to another, to find
a suitable word. "

Charles, who was kicked pretty close to his uncle,
turned around here, the impression the story of the faces of those
present to read.

It was in vain that, using all the eloquence I could command and all the liberty I dared employ,
I protested against being employed for this duty. I represented to the Regent what an ill-chosen
messenger I should be to carry to Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans news of the disgrace of her
brother the Duc du Maine; I, who had always been such an open and declared enemy to the bastards!
I represented to him that people would say I went on purpose to triumph over her at what had
been done, and that she herself would look upon my presence as a kind of insult.  In vain!
in vain! were my arguments, my entreaties, my instances.  M. le Duc d'Orleans had determined
that I should go on this errand, and go I must.

As I left his house to execute my luckless commission, I found one of Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans'
pages, booted and spurred, who had just arrived from Saint-Cloud.  I begged him to return at
once, at a gallop, and say, on arriving, to the Duchesse Sforze (one of Madame la Duchesse
d'Orleans' ladies) that I should be there soon with a message from M. le Duc d'Orleans, and
to ask her to meet me as I descended from my coach. My object was to charge her with the message
I had to deliver, and not to see Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans at all.  But my poor prudence
was confounded by that of the page, who had not less than I.  He took good care not to be the
bearer of such ill news as he had just learned at the Palais Royal, and which was now everywhere
public.  He contented himself with saying that I was coming, sent by M. le Duc d'Orleans, spoke
not a word to the Duchesse Sforze, and disappeared at once.  This is what I afterwards learned,
and what I saw clearly enough on arriving at Saint- Cloud.

I went there at a gentle trot, in order to give time to the page to arrive before me, and to
the Duchesse Sforze to receive me.  During the journey I applauded myself for my address, but
feared lest I should be obliged to see Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans after Madame Sforze.  I
could not imagine that Saint-Cloud was in ignorance of what had occurred, and, nevertheless,
I was in an agony that cannot be expressed, and this increased as I approached the end of my
journey.  If it is disagreeable to announce unpleasant news to the indifferent, how much more
is it to announce them to the deeply interested!

Penetrated with this dolorous sentiment I arrived in the grand court of Saint-Cloud, and saw
everybody at the windows, running from all parts. I alighted, and asked the first comer to
lead me to the Duchesse Sforze, the position of whose apartments I am unacquainted with.  I
was told that Madame Sforze was in the chapel with Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans.  Then I asked
for the Marechale de Rochefort, and after a time she arrived, hobbling along with her stick.
I disputed with her, wishing to see Madame Sforze, who was not to be found.  I was anxious
at all events to go to her room and wait, but the inexorable Marechale pulled me by the arm,
asking what news I brought.  Worn out at last, I said, "News?  news that you are acquainted with."

"How, acquainted with?" she asked.  "We know nothing, except that a Bed of justice has been
held, and we are expiring to know why, and what has passed there."

My astonishment at this ignorance was extreme, and I made her swear and repeat four times over
that nothing was known at Saint-Cloud.  I told her thereupon what had happened, and she, in
her turn, astonished, almost fell backwards!  But where was Madame Sforze?  she came not, and
do what I must, say what I might, I was forced to carry, my message to Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans.
I was sorely loth to do so, but was dragged by the hand almost as a sheep is led to the slaughter.

I stood before Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans after having passed through an apartment filled
with her people, fear painted upon all their faces. There are all inhabitants of dry or very free sites, the Schmalblätterigkeit, the collecting of
water in the interior are related to the latter circumstance in obvious context. The mode of water
uptake but the external form of these plants less modified as in the previously discussed cases.

The
long-stemmed Bromeliaceae in the race forming close in terms of the
distribution the shed to distinguish themselves in front of them,
however, partly due to the absence of roots from that go to the first
youth based.

All types without external water reservoir, or in which the same is
weak (Till. stricta, gardneri, bicolor, geminata, etc.) are in the
interior of cells with many water provided that either scattered among
the green cells (Fig. 16 are usneoides T., PI III, recurvata, etc.)
or a powerful, coherent fabric form (T. stricta, gardneri 6 and 7,
etc.), which is lower than most developed above.

The leaves and stems such species show a different, with the mode of water absorption related
peculiarity the striking reduction in their vascular system, while the latter is usually just for
the residents dry sites is developed. Most pronounced is the reduction in Till. usneoides, what
is more striking than on long stalks usually just a powerful development of the conducting elements
is present, the hanging in the air behaves epiphyte In this respect, much like a water plant.

Those
picking up epiphytic Bromeliaceae, the water in their leaf bases, have more normal vascular strands,
and these differ from the terrestrial species eat through the roots, not in any way from those of other
monocots.

It can therefore be no doubt that the water uptake by the leaves Reduction of water pathways has
circumstances, in particular for the species, whose leaves and who
stalk absorbent flakes evenly on its entire surface.

The screening salvation very scaly species are apparently also reduced
as described, although far less than the vessel parts that they exceed
in thickness.

This reduction is in over the functions of the screening salvation still prevailing uncertainty,
difficult to explain biologically; the latter should be concerned in the management of protein or
other assimilates so one will probably appear on the reduction of
metabolism to very dry sites have to lead.

It is, however, only a preliminary hypothesis.

The hairs are shed, as already mentioned, not only in species with water-absorbing sheets, but sometimes
in those that feed in the normal way before. These are but the scales there remains dry and
only on the back page as a dense covering. The Microscopic examination shows that all parts of the
scales, which in the types of abnormal Nutrition for receiving and
managing the water used, ie the middle part and the basal part, formed
at the non wettable shed little, while the wings powerfully developed
to be wont (Pitcairnia, Karatas, etc.).

The genus Pitcairnia is therefore of particular interest that the transition between normal and
abnormal absorption of water in several stages represents. Some species are on the Bottom without
a wettable shed covered on the surface but quite glabrous (P. undulata); connect with other individual
on the surface to shed quite a number of absorptive (P. lepidota). The localization of scales
on the leaf bases, but occurs only where latter close together or
are still spoon-like bulges severely.

  At the end of a quarter of an hour, Madame seated
herself, but with the greatest politeness.  I was nearly an hour with her, continually telling
and sometimes replying to her questions.  She was delighted at the humiliation of the Parliament,
and of the bastards, and that her son had at last displayed some firmness.

At this point the Marechale de Rochefort entered, and summoned me back to Madame la Duchesse
d'Orleans.  I found that princess extended upon the sofa where I had left her, an inkstand
upon her knees and a pen in her hand.  She had commenced a reply to M. le Duc d'Orleans, but
had not been able to finish it.  Looking at me with an air of gentleness and of friendship,
she observed, "Tears escape me; I have begged you to descend in order to render me a service;
my hand is unsteady, I pray you finish my writing for me;" and she handed to me the inkstand
and her letter.  I took them, and she dictated to me the rest of the epistle, that I at once
added to what she had written.

I was infinitely amazed at the conciseness and appropriateness of the expressions she readily
found, in the midst of her violent emotion, her sobs, and her tears.  She finished by saying
that she was going to Montmartre to mourn the misfortunes of her brother, and pray God for
his prosperity.  I shall regret all my life I did not transcribe this letter. All its expressions
were so worthy, so fitting, so measured, everything being according to truth and duty; and
the letter, in fact, being so perfectly well written, that although I remember it roughly,
I dare not give it, for fear of spoiling it. On the Serra do Picu, between the provinces of Rio de Janeiro and Minas Geraes, found
I last epiphytes, Peperomia reflexa and a sterile fern leaves in the forest at about 1600 m;
of this deciduous forest following Araucariengürtel and the gnarled trunks of a Eugenia a kind
of knee-timber region of the Araucaria, formed entirely devoid of epiphytes; however, grew on
the savanna from extremely xerophilous character, which occupied the summit (Campos elevatos),
a terrestrial Bromeliaceae (Dyckia princeps) and Anthurium. In the valley at the foot of the summit,
I found numerous epiphytic Bromeliaceae (species of Vriesea, Nidularium, Aechmea) and ferns, but only
a single sterile specimen of an epiphytic orchid.

  
  Due to the high latitude, performs in the Serra Geral of Sta. Catherine
  the temperate region far deeper than that between the tropics. At 800-900
  m beyond the main ridge, which has a very large portion of the moisture
  holding back, only the cultivated temperate countries drawn. An excursion
  to this mountain, from Joinville to Sao Bento, led to some interesting
  conclusions about the living conditions of epiphytic plants. Until we
  just about 1000 m high crest was reached, the forest, but not everywhere
  high, but usually dense and rich in most of epiphytic plants, we used in
  the forests of Sta. Catharina mentions occurring have, to which were
  added some other species.
I had nothing to reproach myself with, however, so that her enmity did not very deeply penetrate
me.

CHAPTER XCV

It was scarcely to be expected, perhaps, that M. du Maine would remain altogether quiet under
the disgrace which had been heaped upon him by the proceedings at the Bed of Justice.  Soon
indeed we found that he had been secretly working out the most perfidious and horrible schemes
for a long time before that assembly; and that after his fall, he gave himself up with redoubled
energy to his devilish devices.

Towards the end of this memorable year, 1718, it was discovered that Alberoni, by means of
Cellamare, Spanish Ambassador at our Court, was preparing a plot against the Regent.  The scheme
was nothing less than to throw all the realm into revolt against the government of M. le Duc
d'Orleans; to put the King of Spain at the head of the affairs of France, with a council and
ministers named by him, and a lieutenant, who would in fact have been regent; this self-same
lieutenant to be no other than the Duc du Maine!

This precious plot was, fortunately, discovered before it had come to maturity.  Had such not
happened, the consequences might have been very serious, although they could scarcely have
been fatal. We have
the strong development of the air holes in the leaf base to the aquatic life the latter attribute.
In some species the Schwammparenchymstränge by large Intercellular passages (replacing Till.
gardneri, Plate III, 6 and 7).

In the vascular bundle I'll come back later.

In the parenchyma extending fiber strands offer nothing worth mentioning.

The turf-forming Bromeliaceae are notably by Till. recurvata and their relatives (the subgenus Diaphoranthema
represented) in some form of biological relationship to other sub-genres belonging Tillandsias
a middle step between them and the species with water-collecting
hoppers namely schmalblätterige species such as T. stricta, cautious
rosettes little water can.  He had excited, as much as lay in his power, discontent against the Regent's
government; he had done his best to embroil France with Spain; he had worked heart and soul
with M. du Maine, to carry out the common end they had in view.  So much preparation had been
made; so much of the treason train laid, that at last it became necessary to send to Alberoni
a full and clear account of all that had been done, so as to paint exactly the position of
affairs, and determine the measures that remained to be taken. At the root of two tube epiphytic
  young trees. Sikkim-Himalaya. painted by the very nature of Woman Inspector
  General Forest Dr. Brandis.

  
  Oak (Quercus virens) with Tillandsia usneoides.

  Florida. After a Photograph painted by W. ROSE.

1.

