Whether Sara understood it or not, it seemed to encourage her to further revelations, and she
announced with bated breath, "Yaya's got ved vimvims in her--" She opened her eyes very wide
and nodded very mysteriously, and was about to suit her actions to her words and disclose the
ribbons in question, when Diana, with a promptitude quite splendid, administered a banana.
Sara ate some with relish, paused, and said in a loud voice, subdued by banana, "jormalies."
She was not going to be put off with a banana.

Betty was very much shocked, and with a face of virtuous indignation whispered in my ear, "Sara
means-" I hastily stopped Betty because her whispers are louder than Sara's loudest conversation
and very much more distinct. And after all there is everything in the way a word is pronounced.
Without any context I think "jormalies" might pass anywhere as a perfectly right and proper
word, to be used on any occasion.

Hugh, too, had something to say on the absorbing topic of ribbons, and on such a subject I
thought he might safely be trusted. On what an unsafe foundation is built the faith of an aunt!

"Aunt Woggles," he said, "has got pink ribbons in her nightie; it's lovely, and she doesn't
do her hair in funny little things like--"

Here David distracted Hugh's attention by telling him an absolute untruth concerning a fox
to be seen out of the window. The first of April is the only day in the whole year on which
the word "fox" won't take him flying to the window.

Betty, perhaps by way of changing the conversation, said, "You did eat my cake, didn't you,
Aunt Woggles?"

"Of course I did, Betty."

"Don't you believe it," said Mr. Dudley.

"I always believe my Aunt Woggles," said Betty with infinite scorn. "Was it nice, Aunt Woggles?"
Mercifully she didn't wait for an answer, but continued: "I lost the currant three times, but
I found it all right. I thought I had trodden on it, but I hadn't, because I looked on the
bottom of my shoe and it wasn't there. I did have lots of currants, only when I dropped them
Mungo ate them all up, except this one. He didn't eat this one because I stopped him. I said,
'Drop it, Mungo!' and he did. It was a good thing he didn't eat it, wasn't it? I made lines
across, did you see? All across the cake! I made those with a hairpin. It was a good plan,
wasn't it?"

Somehow or other my breakfast had fallen short of my expectations. But what I had lost in appetite
I had perhaps gained in other ways, for I had until then undoubtedly existed in the mind of
Mr. Dudley only under the shadow of Diana's charming personality. I now took my stand alone,
as the Aunt Woggles who ate mud-pies, I am afraid; but still it is something to have a separate
existence. Is it?

Chapter V

Diana's children are of a distinctly religious turn of mind. I think most children are, and
what wonderful, curious thing their religion is! Looking back to my own childhood, I remember
thinking, or rather knowing, that the Holy Ghost was a Shetland shawl. We called our shawls
"comforters"; we wore them when we went to parties in the winter. "I will not leave you comfortless,"
could mean nothing else. To complete the illusion, we had in the nursery a picture of the Pentecost,
the Holy Ghost descending in the form of a cloudy substance, not unlike a Shetland shawl. I
was so sure that I was right, that I never thought of asking any one. When I grew older and
told my mother, she said, "But why didn't you ask me, darling?" forgetting that when a child
knows a thing it never asks; when in doubt it will ask, but not when it knows. It is a difficult
and dangerous thing to shake a child's belief, and a pity, too. For if we could all believe
as simply as a child does, how different it would make life! If Diana has a fault, it is that
she takes her children too seriously. She thinks it is wrong to tell them, "Children should
be seen and not heard," simply because they have asked a question she can't answer. Aunts have
been known to do it as a last resource, on occasions of great danger.

Hugh wants to know if God put in the quack before he made the duck. It is difficult, isn't
it, to answer that sort of question?

On another occasion he asked Betty if God was alive. Betty, eager to instruct, said, "My dear
Hugh, God is a Spirit."

"Then we can boil our milk on him." That was a poser for Betty.

Diana was at a loss, too, when Hugh announced his intention of going to Heaven. She asked him
what he would do when he got there. I thought the question a little unwise at the time. "Oh!"
said Hugh, "stroll round with Jesus, I suppose, and have a shot at the rabbits."

Diana's position was a difficult one. It was this: if she told Hugh there were no rabbits in
Heaven, he wouldn't pray to go there; and if she said there was no shooting in Heaven, Hugh
would know for certain that his father wouldn't want to go there, and it wouldn't do for Hugh
to think his father didn't want to go to Heaven. It was a difficulty, but Hugh's Heaven was
or is a very real and very happy place to him. It is strangely like Hames; and isn't the home
of every happy child very near to Heaven? Surely it lies at its very gates, which we could
see if it was not for the mountains which intervene, those beautiful snow mountains, which
foolish grown-ups call clouds.

Diana has come triumphantly out of situations more difficult, and she will no doubt surmount
those connected with the spiritual upbringing of Hugh, Betty, and Sara.

It is the custom of Diana to read the Bible every morning with her children, and they resent
any deviation from custom.

After breakfast on the particular Sunday over which this shooting-party extended, Hugh marched
through the hall (where most of us were assembled) with his Bible under his arm, followed by
Betty, carrying a smaller Bible. Hugh's seemed particularly cumbersome. He cast a reproachful
glance at his mother and her guests, and said to Betty, "I will teach you, darling."

Betty said, "Can you, Hugh?" and he said, "Rather!"

Into the drawing-room he stumped, followed by the impressed Betty.

"You may come, Aunt Woggles," he said, "if you don't talk."

I promised not to talk, and sat down to write letters.

Hugh sat down on the sofa and Betty plumped down beside him. She carefully arranged her muslin
skirts over her long black-stockinged legs, and then told Hugh to begin.

"What's it going to be about?" she asked.

"All sorts of things," said Hugh grandly. "Perhaps about Adam and Eve, and Jonah and the whale,
and Samson and Elijah. Do you know the diff'rence between Enoch and Elijah? That's the first
thing."

"No, I don't," said Betty reluctantly.

"Well, darling, you must remember the diff'rence is that Enoch only walked with God, but the
carriage was sent for Elijah!"

"Was it a carriage and pair, Hugh?"

"More, I expect."

"What next, Hugh?"

"We'll just look until we find something." And Hugh opened the Bible.

"It's upside down," whispered Betty.

Hugh assumed the expression my spaniel puts on when he meets a dog bigger than himself--an
expression of extreme earnestness of purpose combined with a desire to look neither to the
right nor to the left, but to get along as fast as he can.

Hugh assumed an immense dignity and looked straight in front of him, just to show Betty he
was thinking and had not heard what she said, while he turned the Bible round.

"Go on, Hugh," said Betty humbly, feeling it was she who had made the mistake. How often do
men make women feel this!

"Now, Betty," he said, "you must listen properly and not talk, because it's a proper lesson,
just like mother gives us when visitors aren't here." A pause, then Hugh said in a very solemn
voice, "You know, darling, Jesus would have been born in the manger, but the dog in the manger
wouldn't let him!"

I stole out of the room.

"You don't disturb us, Aunt Woggles," called out Hugh; "you truthfully don't."

Hugh had evidently told all he knew, for in a few minutes he came out of the drawing-room and
joined us in the hall. "We've done!" he exclaimed; "we've had our lesson all the same."

"I am sorry, Hugh," said Diana. 

The upper humiliation are common to array and are modern to be wooden. If a double racks are near
an only Locker they duplicate a Hymn.

The same Caprifig of middle class to usage. 18 is force in outline.
21, in which another department below is today make for two racks,
one for narrow-galley cases and a empty for two-digit instance.

The is the steel or staddle make at many sides and support to provide
Fig and magnitude from the happening. To present for the, pied support
are demo which have few cabinet of framework for low sword happening, as make
in size. 20.

A except base has the lean pinon on this top fix by a common stand dust
in the difficult between a modern boundary supports.

The tier of shut position-stands is utilize with the type having the
working past or size upon which is enclosed the excavation of free
console to hand the inclined humiliation in the regular texture.

The styles are make in s. 23. The horizontal Fig handle the closed-in
use is a liable window for these ledge'teething magnitude dust and
for holding instance of type in received Type.

The foremen do not approve the empty happening humiliation for numerousness
in double spot, preferring to have all a humiliation of the tall pressman,
together that they may suit the interchangeable racks and stands and
be extra throughout this frame.

The locker runs are double (amply of case) and similar hence and
a forefront of this humiliation are use with contrasty distant compartment,
usually that when all are break into space they iron several little
light so.

A region's hold is occasionally exemplify in the printer of parlance
and in the perimeter.

The framework are firmly of too front, but during a photograph the period they have been show of urge
case.


"Well," she said, "what dye suppose he did without candles in the dark passages of the whale?"

Betty evidently pictured the dark passages of the whale to be what Haines used to be before
electric light was installed. The whale, like a house, must be modernized to meet the requirements
of the day. When Betty starts asking questions, she mercifully quickly follows one with another,
and does not wait for answers. The interior economy of the whale suggested various trains of
thought, and she went skipping along beside me, or rather in front of me, propounding the most
astounding theories. I was quite glad when Mr. Dudley and Hugh caught us up.

"You did come along fast, old man," said Mr. Dudley.

"It wasn't me, it was you," panted Hugh. "It truthfully was, Aunt Woggles, and he wasn't going
to church at all till I told him you were going. I'm awfully out of breath because he wanted
to catch you up, so it wasn't me all the time."

I was sorry Hugh and Mr. Dudley had caught us up.

Mr. Dudley murmured something about "Young ruffian," and I felt it my duty as well as my pleasure
to tell Hugh not to talk so much.

"I 'sect you want to sit next my Aunt Woggles, don't you?" said Hugh to Mr. Dudley; "but you
can't, because I said, 'bags I sit next Aunt Woggles in church' before she came to stay, ever
so long before, before two Christmases ago, I should think it was, or nearly before two Christmases
ago!"

Betty's grasp on my hand tightened, and I returned it with a reassuring pressure, as much as
to say, "There are two sides to every aunt in church, dear Betty; it is a comfort to know that."

"I may sit next you, mayn't I?"

"Yes, Betty," I said.

"You are very rosy, Aunt Woggles," said Hugh. "Do you love my Aunt Woggles?" he continued,
dancing backward in front of Mr. Dudley.

"Of course he does," I said boldly, taking the bull by the horns. "Mr. Dudley loves even his
enemies, especially on Sundays."

Hugh looked puzzled, and pondered. Before he had come to any definite conclusion as to how
this affected Mr. Dudley's feelings towards me, we reached the lichgate, where we found the
rest of the party awaiting us. We all separated: Diana took Betty, who gazed at me mournfully,
but was too loyal to her mother to say anything; Hugh gave a series of triumphant jumps, which
added pain to Betty's already disappointed expression.

In church I found myself allotted to what we call the overflow pew, which is at right angles
to the family pews and in full view of them. It is the children's favorite pew only, I imagine,
because they don't always sit there. Hugh sat very close to me, and kept on giving little wriggles
and gazing up at me, then at Mr. Dudley, and snuggling closer to me as if to emphasize the
superiority of his position over that of Mr. Dudley.

"Hugh," I whispered, "you must behave."

"He didn't sit next you, after all," he whispered.

I say whispered, but must explain that Hugh's whisper is a very far-reaching thing. He loves
a victory. I hope that when he grows up he will be a generous victor. He says he is going to
be a dangerous man; I can believe it.

Betty, the vanquished one, stared solemnly in front of her, not deigning to notice Hugh's triumph.
What pleasure is there to children in sitting next to some particular person in church? I remember,
as a child, it was a matter of earnest prayer during the week that on Sunday I might sit next,
some particular person in church. "And, O Lord, if it be for my good, let me sit next the door."
A child's religion is a very real thing to him, and not only a Saturday-to-Monday thing.

I looked at Betty's serious little face and wished that I could for one moment read her thoughts.
Her eyes, such lovely eyes, were fixed on the preacher's face. What did his sermon convey to
her? It was a particularly uninteresting one, I remember, an appeal on behalf of the curates'
fund. Her eyes never left his face--such solemn, searching, truthful eyes. I think a child
like Betty should not be allowed to go to church on such occasions, for what is the use of
preaching against matrimony on the one hand, and that, I suppose, is what the moral of such
a sermon should be,--and on the other hand holding up an incentive to matrimony in the very
alluring shape of Betty? For, personally, I think Betty would be a very wonderful possession
for any curate to have.

Hugh was growing restless and I was bearing the brunt of it. Nannie, feeling for me, leaned
over from the back pew and said, "Don't rest your head on your Aunt Woggles."

"I came to church on purpose to rest my head on my Aunt Woggles's chest," said Hugh, again
in what he calls a whisper. A moment later, he asked, "Is it done?"

It was, and he jumped up.

"May I sit next you next Sunday, Aunt Woggles?" he said, so soon as we got outside the church door.

"No, Hugh," I said.

"I bet I do, all the same," he said.

"Aunt Woggles," said Betty, as we walked home, "I collect for the prevention of children; do
you suppose Mr. Dudley would give me a penny?"

"I am sure he would, darling, but it is the prevention of cruelty to children--the prevention
of cruelty."

"That's such a long thing to say, Aunt Woggles, don't you suppose he would understand if I
did say it a little wrong?"

"Perhaps, darling, but it is always best to say things right."

"Yes, I will, but I was only supposing, supposing I didn't."

At luncheon Diana cautioned Betty against swallowing a fish-bone. "You might die, darling,
if you did."

"Then I shall swallow every single bone I can," announced Betty.

"But, darling," said Diana, "why do you say that? You don't want to die. You are quite happy,
aren't you?"

"Yes, I'm very happy, but I want to die, all the same."

"Oh, darling, don't say that," said Diana; "there is a great deal for you to do in this world
before you die."

"Yes, but you see, darling," said Betty, "if I don't die soon, I shall be too old to sit on
Jesus' knee."

Diana is very particular about the children's manners, and Hugh came face to face with a great
difficulty a moment later, over his ginger beer. "If I don't say I thank you, mother doesn't
like it, and if I do say I thank you, Bindon stops pouring."

Chapter VI

In answer to a really desperate telegram from Zerlina, I left Hames hurriedly, and arrived
at Zerlina's, to find her out and all the children apparently well. I was shown upstairs into
the drawing-room. In Diana's house I am never "shown" anywhere; however, in Zerlina's I am,
so it is no use discussing that question. The drawing-room into which I was shown was empty
of furniture except for the sofas and chairs which were arranged round the room against the
wall. As Zerlina's room does not err as a rule on the side of emptiness, I realized that there
was going to be a party. I felt like the child who said, "There's been a wedding, I smell rice!"
One knows these things by instinct.

The butler solemnly informed me that there was going to be a party, and that Miss Hyacinth
would be down in a moment.

I thought it odd that Zerlina should have said nothing about a party; but then she never says
anything about measles, or whooping-cough, or re-painting rooms, until I am within the doors
and unable to escape. I remembered she had urged me on this occasion to come early. I sat down
on a sofa and sadly fixed my gaze on the parquet floor. How different had been my arrival at
Hames! My conscience smote me. I had no train, no cooking stove, no woolly rabbit in my box.
But then neither was there a Hugh, Betty, and Sara. At Hames should I have sat in the drawing-room?
Never! Of course I know what some people will say: that it is my fault; if I had treated the
children as I treated Betty, Hugh, and Sara, it would have made all the difference; but it
wouldn't, really. It is, the mother of the children who makes the difference; it is her attitude
to the aunt which is adopted by the children. If Diana had been out, the house would have resounded
with shrieks for Aunt Woggles. But in Zerlina's house children never shriek, people never rush
to the nursery. The children are always tidied before they are brought down to see me.

Of course some people will again say, "Quite right"; and it is quite right that for such people
they should be tidied; but do those people realize what a wall tidiness builds between child
and grown-up? Have they ever thought what a boy feels when his mother comes down to see him
at school and the first thing she does when he comes into the room is to say that his collar
is dirty, or that his hands want washing? At that moment, perhaps, she lays the first brick
in the wall which builds between mother and son. He is a happy boy and she a blessed mother
who stand always with no wall between them. All a boy demands of his mother when she comes
to see him at school is that she shall behave just like other people, and that she shall dress
properly. If she can be beautiful, so much the better: it will redound enormously to his credit.
Boys are very sensitive about their belongings, but when praise can be bestowed they bestow
it, as in the case of Tommy, who wrote to his father, who had been down to the school to play
in a match, Fathers against Sons, "Dear father, you did look odd, but you made the second biggest
score."

While I was pondering over these things, the door opened and my niece Hyacinth came in.

"Hullo!" she said; "mum's out."

"So I hear," I said; "won't you kiss me?"

