"Colonel, these scandalous boys of yourn are guilty of burglary in open daylight! yes, and
of unprovoked 'sault and batter, prepense. The law is on our side, all round. The citizen has
an inalienable right to defend his home and family, and we did, didn't we, Harman?"

Phelps admitted the correctness of Plutarch's views. To the captain the colonel said sternly:

"Consider yourself under arrest. You have disgraced your temporary commission." Addressing
the derelict soldiery, he added:

"You are not fit to carry muskets! Shame upon you, men, shame! You have soiled the name of
Virginia, and stained the honor of your homes."

"Say, cap'n," resumed Byle, staunching his bloody thumb with the fringe of his buckskin doublet,
"you'd best trade your side arms for this young un's tin sword; git it for him, bub; and I'll
make him a pop-gun of elder-wood. Colonel Hugh Phelps, of Parkurgberg, how are you? Excuse
my not shaking hands sooner."

Phelps assumed a haughty military attitude, which displayed to advantage his large and imposing
form. "Who is this person?" he asked the captain.

"Jersey cranberries! Don't you know me? I've heard of the Phelpses ever since I was knee-high
to a duck. They are folks nobody need feel ticklish about shaking hands with. You're the only
swelled up one of the stock. I never knowed but one wuthless Phelp, and he was a good enough
fisher when he was sober. Colonel, were you ever picked up by puttin' out your paw to the wrong
man? Want to see inside the 'stablishment? Come right in, I'll introduce you to Mrs. Blennerhassett."

The colonel pushed forward through the open door and accosted the dignified lady, who was taking
an inventory of the ruined household effects. Byle stalked into the room at the officer's side.

In the stately manner of the gentry of the period, Phelps made his compliments and solicited
a brief interview. He apologized as well as he could for the outrageous behavior of the militia,
and offered to do anything in his power to make amends. The only favor which the proud woman
asked was the privilege of embarking as soon as practicable, on a down-river boat that would
carry her and her children to the South.

"Can you procure for me the family boat which my husband provided for us at Marietta?"

The colonel feared not. Marietta was out of his jurisdiction.

"Is there any boat that I can borrow here, or buy? I must join my husband; I promised him that
I would not delay."

"I'd lend you my big piroque, but you'll overset before you get as far as Farmer's Castle,"
said Byle.

"Pardon me," responded Madam Blennerhassett, in tones of apology, bestowing looks of infinite
gratitude on her zealous guardian; "I cannot put in words my sense of obligation to you, sir.
Colonel Phelps, I owe to this gentleman more than money can repay! It was he who protected
me and my servants from the drunken soldiers; he drove them out, risking his life; he was wounded
defending us!"

"You don't owe me a fip. It is no trouble at all to me to do a little chore for you. It was
fool's luck, anyway. I saw you in town this morning, skiting about, from pillar to post, and
says I to myself, 'There's uneasiness under that fine bonnet!' I noticed you dodge in at the
court-house and at Squire Hale's, and everywhere, and something told me to investigate. So
I went in wherever I saw you come out, in reg'lar order, and larnt, I guess, just about as
much as you did, about your disappointment and your worry. Then I thought, 'as like as not
that woman is having more trouble down upon the island than I know anything about. So, true
as calamus is sweet-flag, as soon as you was on your white horse, like the old lady of Banbury
Cross, I was in my everyday skiff, and I didn't lose you out of my sight from the minute you
started to the minute Peter and Ransom took you on the ferry--but I slid along where you couldn't
spy me."

"I did see you, sir, and I confess I imagined you might be some river-ruffian watching me with
no good intention. I did you great injustice."

"I looked like a river pirate, did I? No, ma'am, I was a privateer, but not a pirate. I was
sailing under your colors, unbeknown to you. Is that correct military language, Phelps? To
make a long story short, Scipio told me in his charcoal style what happened last night, and
all about Harman's sudden going away. Well, sir--ma'am, I mean--it struck me of a heap. I never
was worse doubled up by news in my life. I'm not a praying man, as a rule--I only remember
praying out loud once--that was when brother Euc was near 'bout dead with cholera morbus--I
began to pray, and he says, 'Don't be fooling with the Lord now, but give me some more camphire.'
That speech of Euc's sort of cured me of praying out loud, though I'm orthodox. Let's see;
where was I? Oh, yes, I felt so dangnation sorry for the family, that I says, in my mind, or
I reckon it was in my soul, I says to God, 'Don't forget to keep your all-seeing eye on Margaret.'
Well, Colonel Phelps; I leave you in charge of the widow and the fatherless. If you have any
trouble with the militia, just send for Plutarch Byle. Good-bye, Mrs. B. I never seen you lookin'
handsomer since the day I first met you and Evaleen, last May a year ago, when I was up here
investigating that hunk of raw beef in the puddle."

Notwithstanding his precipitate farewell, Plutarch lingered at the door, and kept nervously
wiping the blood off his thumb upon the fringe of his doublet. Mrs. Blennerhassett, with gracious
solicitude, insisted upon wrapping a small linen handkerchief about the wounded member. The
gawky hero looked very sheepish while she tied the soft bandage fast.

"Is this yourn?" he asked.

"It was mine," she answered, smiling amusedly, "but it now belongs to the knight who came to
fight my battle when I was in great distress."

"By gum, I'm obliged to you."

Uttering these elegant parting words, Byle bolted out of the room to the long porch. He stood
a moment, then turned his face toward the door, where stood the lady, smiling her embarrassed
thanks and adieux. Big tears were trickling down Plutarch's cheeks. The awkward giant gulped,
wheeled round, and with long strides made a bee-line for his boat, followed as he left the
yard by cheers from the Wood County militia.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fortunately, a party of youths, including Morgan Neville, William Robinson, young Brackenridge,
and a dozen others, who had attached themselves to Burr and Arlington in Pittsburg, came down
the Ohio, in a flatboat belonging to one of their associates, Thomas Butler. These adventurous
voyagers, suspected of complicity with Burr, were arraigned before three justices of the peace,
of the Dogberry caliber, and after a ludicrous examination were acquitted. The best room of
their boat was fitted up with carpets, hangings, and a suite of furniture taken from the chambers
of the White House, soon to be deserted. The unplaned, unpainted cabin, perfumed by the sour
odor of oaken planks and the scent of pine resin, was transformed into an Eastern boudoir--couches,
divans, gorgeous colors and all, for the accommodation of Mrs. Blennerhassett.

The ill-starred gentlewoman whose passion for the magnificent prompted her to adorn her floating
bower thus luxuriously, and who, like Cleopatra, was attended on her barge by Ethiop slaves,
had not relinquished her faith in Burr's dream of conquest and empire.

"Where are we going," asked Harman, when the boat which was to convey the family to Bayou Pierre
had been pushed off from their island, and the mother and her children realized that they were
afloat upon the river.

"We are going to meet your father in a splendid city far away in the South."

"Will Colonel Burr be there?"

"Yes, but we shall not then call him Colonel; he will be Emperor."

"And what will you be, mamma?"

"A duchess, my son."

The weary mother sank back upon her oriental divan, which was piled with cushions, and closed
her eyes in fragrant slumber, a luxury she had foregone for many days and nights.

XXVI. OUT OF THE NET INTO THE TRAP.

December was well-nigh spent when Blennerhassett's bateau reached the mouth of the Cumberland
and joined Burr's flotilla of a dozen similar boats. The number of men ready to embark for
the Wachita counted only three or four score. This informidable showing discouraged Blennerhassett,
but the "general," for so Burr was now styled, saw fleet and men with the multiplying eye of
faith, and he rejoiced to have actually begun the campaign. Followers yet unseen were surely
on their way to join his resolute band. The miscarriage of plans at the island imposed only
a temporary delay on the five hundred expected to descend from the Alleghany country. That
recruits would flock the Mississippi shores to look for the coming of the leader, and to offer
themselves--blanket, gun and soul--for the bold venture, was to be expected of men whose names
were written in the "Roster of the Faithful."

The motley forces drawn up on the bank of the Cumberland for review and instruction made up
in fantastic variety for what they lacked in number. There was much of the grotesque and somewhat
of the pitiful in the spectacle presented by the straggling ranks of boatmen and backwoods
farmers. Many wore garments of butternut linsey; others had on buckskin breeches and coats
of bear's pelts; some, in imitation of Boone and the pioneers, had donned moccasins and wolf's
skin caps, ornamented with foxtails. Some of these picturesque resolutes leaned on their long
rifles, displaying to advantage tomahawk and scalping knife.

To this nucleus of an expected great army Burr made a brief speech: "There can be no failure
in any enterprise backed up by patriots of such stock as I see before me. You have the muscle
and the sinew, the blood and the brains, the heart and the soul, of Western heroes. Your officers,
while expecting obedience, give in return their friendship and protection. We are to share
common hardships and dangers, putting up with things as they are to-day, in certainty of reward
to-morrow."

The progress of the unwieldy batteaux was impeded by perils of winter navigation. Burr exercised
his best generalship in directing his men how to overcome the difficulties they must encounter.
He now thought he knew the river in its two siren moods, its summer singing hour and its winter
rage of hunger for decoyed victims. His royal progress in Wilkinson's barge he recollected
as an event so long ago as to seem an impression revived in the brain, of a voyage enjoyed
in some previous state of existence.

The flotilla had passed New Madrid, when, one afternoon, Burr standing near the stern of his
boat--amused himself by contemplating a procession of flying clouds in distorted shapes of
dragons, hippogrifs, witches, and ghosts. The boat was close to shore, skirting a low bluff,
covered with shrubs and trees. A majestic poplar standing on the river's edge drew the colonel's
attention by its noble aspect. At the very moment when the prow drove opposite the monarch
tree, its lofty top trembled, the towering trunk reeled and fell into the river with a terrific
plunge. The twenty-foot long steering pole, to which was attached a rudder like the blade of
a huge oar, was struck and splintered by the falling trunk. The seemingly firm-rooted and defiant
poplar had been undermined by the incessant erosion of the flood.

"Good Heaven!" exclaimed Burr, involuntarily. "Am I the tree or the undercurrent?"

That he had far less to dread from winds, waves, and falling trees than from ominous storm
gatherings of human element, menacing the fleet from the shore, the adventurer discovered full
soon. He was prepared to battle with the Mississippi, but had not anticipated collision with
the territorial militia, for he was in ignorance of the fact that his plans had been exposed,
and that a thunderbolt from the hand of national authority had been hurled. His flotilla, as
it proceeded southward, instead of being hailed and boarded by eager recruits, was bayed by
the watch-dogs of the law, civil and martial. Intrusive messengers from the courts and officious
colonels of raw militia regiments pestered and threatened; those, with paper warrants from
local magistrates, these, with flintlock muskets in reserve.

Not until his boat arrived at Bayou Pierre, near Natchez, and landed in Petite Gulf, was Burr
fully informed of the action taken by the National Government and the several States. The situation
was disclosed to him by Major Flaharty of the Second Regiment, who, acting under the authority
of the territorial governor of Mississippi, ordered Burr to appear at the village of Washington
to undergo examination. The order was not promptly enforced, and the boats were permitted to
cross the river to a point on the western shore, a few miles lower down.

Before Burr's boat pushed out from Petite Gulf, Blennerhassett hurried to his superior, and
with many apologies, handed him a letter, crumpled from having been carried long in the bearer's
pocket.

"This came by mail to the island, addressed, as you see, in my care. Margaret warned me to
deliver it to you promptly; but the commission escaped my mind." The superscription on the
letter, written in fine hand, ran thus: "To Colonel Aaron Burr, care of Mr. Harman Blennerhassett,
Blennerhassett's Island, opposite Belpre, Ohio, U. S. A." Burr waited until the boat was in
motion before entering his cabin to open and read the belated billet-doux, for such he judged
the missive to be. The news he had just heard of Wilkinson's changed attitude, and the prospect
of his own arrest, left him in a state of mind not favorable to playing the capricious game
of flirtation, with pen or tongue. He cast the sealed epistle on the table provided for his
use, and sat down on a wooden stool to ponder. The only illumination of his rude quarters came
from a tallow candle stuck in a socket made by boring an auger-hole in a block of wood. Night
had fallen, the wind blew in violent gusts and the timbers of the flatboat creaked and shuddered.
Burr sat in meditation, his face buried in his hands, his elbows resting on the table, a foiled
conspirator--frustrated, trapped, as he conjectured, by his suave confederate. He had drifted
into the eelpot prepared for him. No mode of escape could he devise. He thought of Madam Blennerhassett,
of Theodosia, of glorious visions seen and royal assurances given, in the secluded library
of the White House on the lonely island in the Ohio. Vividly he remembered his first voyage
down the beautiful river, the conversations with Arlington, the serio-comic encounter with
Plutarch Byle, the reverie on deck of the ark, the evening in the ladies' bower. Slowly he
raised his head from his hands, and moved by the automatism of habit drew a cigar from its
case, lit the solacing weed at the blue-yellow cone of the candle flame, and smoked. He now
felt not disinclined to take up the neglected billet-doux. He broke the seal and read.

                                            PHILADELPHIA, NOV. 31, 1806.

