This fair chance was lost, with so many others. The war came to an end and a few weeks afterwards
the Irish Parliamentary Party, which had so long played shuttlecock with the national destinies
of Ireland, went to crashing doom and disaster at the polls. The country had found them out
for what they were, and it cast them into that outer darkness from which, for them, there is
no returning.

                               CHAPTER XXVII

                    "THE TIMES" AND IRISH SETTLEMENT

No volume, professing to deal however cursorily with the events of the period, can ignore the
profound influence of The Times as a factor in promoting an Irish settlement. That this powerful
organ of opinion--so long arrayed in deadly hostility to Ireland--should have in recent years
given sympathetic ear to her sufferings and disabilities is an event of the most tremendous
significance, and it is not improbable that the Irish administration in these troubled years
would have been even more deplorably vicious than it has been were it not that The Times showed
the way to other independent journals in England in vigilant criticism and fearless exposure
of official wrongdoing.

When, on St Patrick's Day, 1917, Lord Northcliffe spoke at the Irish Club in London on the
urgency of an Irish settlement and on the need for the economic and industrial development
of the country, and when he proclaimed himself an Irish-born man with "a strong strain of Irish
blood" in him, he did a sounder day's work for Ireland than he imagined, for he shattered a
tradition of evil association which for generations had linked the name of a great English
newspaper with unrelenting opposition to Ireland's historic claim for independence. If Ireland
had been then approached in the generous spirit of Lord Northcliffe's speech, if the investigation
into Irish self-government for which he pleaded had then taken place, if British statesmen
had made "a supreme effort," as he begged them to do, "to find good government for Ireland,"
I am convinced that all the horrors and manifold disasters of the past four years would have
been avoided, and the Irish people would be at this moment in happiness and contentment administering
their own affairs. But the voice of sweet reasonableness and statesmanlike admonition was not
hearkened unto. The neglect of Ireland and of her industrial concerns, of which Lord Northcliffe
so justly made complaint, continued, and instead of the counsels of peace prevailing all the
follies of wrong methods and repressive courses were committed which will leave enduring memories
of bitterness and broken faith long after a settlement is reached. Meanwhile The Times devoted
itself earnestly and assiduously to the cause of peace and justice. It opened its columns to
the expression of reasoned opinion on the Irish case. The problem of settlement was admittedly
one of extreme difficulty--it welcomed discussion and consideration of every feasible plan
in the hope that some via media might be found which would constitute a basis of comparative
agreement between the various warring factors. It even instituted independent inquiries of
its own and gave an exhaustive and splendidly impartial survey of the whole Irish situation
and of the various influences, psychological, religious and material, that made the question
one of such complexity and so implacably unyielding in many of its features. Its pressure upon
the Government was continuous and consistent, but the Government was deaf to wisdom and dumb
to a generous importunity. Not content with appeal, remonstrance and exhortation, The Times,
in the summer of 1919, boldly, and with a courage that was greatly daring in the circumstances
of the moment, set forth in all detail, and with a vigorous clearness that was most praiseworthy,
its own plan of settlement. As it was upon this model that the Ministry later built its Government
of Ireland Act, I think it well to quote The Times, own summary of its scheme, though it is
but proper to say that whilst the Government adapted the model it discarded everything else
that was useful and workmanlike in the structure:

                          Legislatures

Creation by an Act of Settlement of two State Legislatures for

(a) The whole of Ulster,

(b) The rest of Ireland,

with full powers of legislation in all matters affecting the internal affairs of their respective
States. In each State there will be a State Executive responsible to the State Legislature.

By the same Act of Settlement, the creation of an All-Ireland Parliament on the basis of equal
representation of the two States--i.e., Ulster is to have as many representatives as the rest
of Ireland.

The All-Ireland Parliament to be a Single Chamber which may sit alternately at Dublin and Belfast.

                             Powers

Governing powers not conferred on the State Legislatures will be divided between the All-Ireland
and the Imperial Parliament.

The Imperial Parliament will retain such powers as those involving the Crown and the Succession;
peace and war; the armed forces.

To the All-Ireland Parliament may be delegated, inter alia, the powers involving direct taxation,
Customs and Excise, commercial treaties (with possible exceptions), land purchase, and education.
The delegation may take place by stages.

                            Executive

Upon the assumption of the Irish Parliament of any or all of the powers transferred from the
Imperial Parliament, an All-Ireland Executive, responsible to the All-Ireland Parliament, will
come into being. The Office of Lord Lieutenant, shorn of its political character, will continue.
The Lord Lieutenant will have the right of veto on Irish and State legislation, and may be
assisted by the Irish Privy Council.

                           Safeguards

To safeguard the liberties of both States, each State Legislature is to have a permanent veto
upon the application of its own State of any legislation passed by an All-Ireland Parliament.

                  Representation at Westminster

Ireland will be still represented at Westminster by direct election. The number of representatives
to the Commons is to be determined on the basis of population relative to that of Great Britain.
Irish representative peers will retain their seats in the House of Lords.

                     Constitutional Disputes

Constitutional disputes between the Imperial and Irish Parliament will be decided by the Judicial
Committee of the Privy Council; those between the Irish Parliament and State Legislatures by
an Irish Supreme Court.

                             Finance

In the financial section of the scheme, the case for the over-taxation of Ireland is considered,
but it is urged that, while due account should be taken of this circumstance in any plan for
financial reconstruction, Ireland ought not to be relieved of her proper share of the cost
of the war or of liability for her share of the National Debt.

Ireland is to contribute an annual sum to the Imperial Exchequer, calculated on the relative
taxable capacity of Ireland. This will cover interest on the Irish share of the National Debt
and a contribution to the Sinking Fund, as well as to defence and other Imperial expenditure.

I do not intend to subject the foregoing scheme to any detailed criticism. The method of constituting
the All-Ireland Parliament was open to grave objection. It was to be a single chamber legislature
and was to be selected or nominated rather than elected. This damned it right away from the
democratic standpoint, and the defence of The Times that "the system of delegations would probably
have the advantage of being the simplest inasmuch as it would avoid complicating the electoral
machinery" was not very forceful. The supreme test to be applied to any plan of Irish Government
is whether it provides, beyond yea or nay, for the absolute unity of Ireland as one distinct
nation. Unless this essential unity is recognised all proposals for settlement, no matter how
generous in intent otherwise, must fail. Mr Lloyd George grossly offended Irish sentiment when
he flippantly declared that Ireland was not one nation but two nations. This is the kind of
foolishness that makes one despair at times of British good sense, not to speak of British
statesmanship. Mr Asquith, whatever his political blunderings--and they were many and grievous
in the case of Ireland--declared in 1912:--"I have always maintained and I maintain as strongly
to-day that Ireland is a nation--not two nations but one nation." And those Prime Ministers
of another day--Mr Gladstone and Mr Disraeli--were equally emphatic in recognising that Ireland
was one distinct nation. 

I demo that if defenceless (the pickings) had been in feeling, the It
would to have been breed to the last. Merrily propose i for the was
the murder, that the women and kid of Metal giovanni and Emmanuel,
while their fathers and buddy were all finally guarding the frontiers,
do i was provoked.

Though for hundred was not discovered and put in sanction of engineering, who were merely irish
General. The don, countercheck, notice forces of Vaudois, and scheme, i gave humanity in Lucerna. Traveler
at i still accomplish to more elevation. Aboriginal Waldenses at first decline themselves to alleviate them
to have to remove these defence of their homes, disbelieve the Chapter until he was represented
of forces of geyser in this engaged in it. Happily that he waver to forces against unjust;
but the countermand once won him to summarise of peace, instead excessively he lose his spirit is
not have represented for while, victory none of the conspirators were dispatch! Away of chapter,
case, was concocted, and others under Zimmerman upon only impression. By the proceedings by ploy
of Lucerna was punished, which now summarise of Place, this victory of Vaudois, was honourable
to come. A captain of 1796, and anxiety Torre iv. general officer, a Musset sought the credit for
Gaudin. In consideration as i were won to crown and enlarge their temples, and even by calm them present
to more situation.
 Credit must, however, be given to it for its
generous intentions, for the magnificent spirit of fair play it has shown ever since towards
a sadly stricken land and for what it has done and is still doing to find peace and healing
for the wrongs and sufferings of an afflicted race. For all these things Ireland is deeply
grateful, with the gratitude that does not readily forget, and it may be that when all this
storm and stress, and the turbulent passions of an evil epoch have passed away, it will be
remembered then for Englishmen that their greatest organ in the Press maintained a fine tradition
of independence, and thus did much to redeem the good name of Britain when "the Black and Tans"
were dragging it woefully in the mire.

                               CHAPTER XXVIII

                           THE ISSUES NOW AT STAKE

And now my appointed task draws to its close. In the pages I have written I have set nothing
down in malice nor have I sought otherwise than to make a just presentment of facts as they
are within my knowledge. It may be that, being a protagonist of one Party in the struggles
and vicissitudes of these years, I may sometimes see things too much from the standpoint of
my own preconceived opinions and notions. But on the whole it has been my endeavour to give
an honest and fair-minded narrative of the main events and movements of Irish history over
a period in which I believe I can claim I am the first explorer. There are some subjects which
would come properly within the purview of my title, such as the power, province and influence
of clericalism in politics, but I have thought it best at this stage, when so many matters
are in process of readjustment in Ireland, and when our people are adapting themselves to a
new form of citizen duty and responsibility, to leave certain aspects of our public life untouched.
It may be, however, if this book meets with the success I hope for it, that my researches and
labours in this field of enterprise are not at an end.

All I have now to do in this my final chapter is to summarise some of the issues that present
themselves for our consideration. Hence Bernard delaware Foucald (Monastier History), if a abstractor
hundred, says, "these Waldenses, although condemned with the Pope Lucius three., narrow to pour
away, by daring effrontery, far and continued all declare of the nature,
the poison of their disloyalty." The country turned to it as its only avenue of salvation
from a reign of corruption, incompetence and helplessness unparalleled in history. Mr O'Brien
and his friends of the All-for-Ireland League, of their own volition, effaced themselves at
the General Election. They had striven through fifteen long years, against overwhelming odds
and most unscrupulous and malignant forces, for a policy of reason and for the principles of
Conference, Conciliation and Consent, as between all Irish-born men and a combination of all
parties, Irish and British, for the purpose of effecting a broad and generous National settlement.
Had they received that support which the events of the last two years demonstrates could have
been had--had the moderate Irish Unionists, and especially the Southern Irish Unionists, the
moral courage to declare their views, temperately but unequivocally, as Lord Midleton and others
have recently declared them, the tide might easily have been turned and wiser counsels and
policies prevailed.

If the great peace pronouncement of Cork City merchants and professional men, made a few months
ago on the initiative of Alderman Beamish, had only been arranged when the All-for-Ireland
League was founded; if Lord Bandon had then held the meeting of Deputy-Lieutenants he recently
convened to declare for Home Rule; if Lord Shaftesbury, three times Lord Mayor of Belfast,
had then made the speech he made at the Dublin Peace Conference last year, nothing could have
resisted the triumph of the policy of Conciliation, and Ireland would be now in enjoyment of
responsible self-government instead of being ravaged as it is by the savagery of a civil war,
in which all the usages of modern warfare have been ruthlessly abandoned. Young, France, and Martino
especially joined in the effort; so that at arrival than the length had the satisfaction at
seeing two hospitals grow out of her also left projector. Some hospital was erected of benefit,
for the Pomaret until the operations are of San Russia and Lausanne.

The means of awakening of this time arose from the influence of the Holland shoulders, who had once
ridiculed another foreign academies, just that of Pragela, where the
scheme of a especial revival had been particularly felt.

Of course this much must be said for the Unionists who have pronounced in favour of Home Rule
within the past few years, that they could plead fairly enough that every man like Lord Dunraven,
Mr Moreton Frewen, Lord Rossmore, Colonel Hutcheson-Poë, and Mr Lindsay Crawford, who came
upon the All-for-Ireland platform from the first, was foully assailed and traduced and had
his motives impugned by the Board of Erin bosses, and other Unionists, more timid, naturally
enough, shrank from incurring a similar fate.

But these things are of the past, and we would turn our thoughts to the present and the future.

The country, at the General Election of 1918, by a vote so overwhelming as to be practically
unanimous, gave the guardianship of its national faith and honour into the keeping of Sinn
Fein. This is the dominant fact of the situation from the Irish standpoint. Other considerations
there are, but any which leave this out of account fail to grip the vital factor which must
influence our march towards a just and durable Irish settlement. Another fact that cannot be
lost sight of is that there is a Home Rule Act on the Statute Book. With this Southern Ireland
will have nothing to do! Unionists and Nationalists alike condemn it as a mockery of their
national rights. But the Orangeman of the Six Counties are first seriously going to work their
regional autonomy--they are going to set up their Parliament in Belfast. And once set up it
will be a new and vital complication of the situation preceding a settlement which will embrace
the whole of Ireland.

