§ 44. There is one obvious consequence of the setting out of aisles on either side of an existing
building which, although an imperfection in itself, contributes greatly to the variety of the
parish church plan. The builders cannot see both their aisles at one and the same time: the
older church comes in between. In fact, until the nave and aisles are actually joined, at the
close of the work, by the breaking down of the walls beneath the arches, there can be no opportunity
of appreciating the full effect of the work. There is a famous instance at Beverley minster
of the mistakes to which the presence of the older building may lead. The aisles of the nave
were set out in the fourteenth century on either side of an older and shorter nave. The south
aisle was set out first, the width of the eastern bay being measured from a new buttress in
the angle of nave and transept. On the north side there was a thirteenth century buttress in
this position: the builders, in setting out their north aisle, overlooked the fact that this
buttress was of less projection than the newly built one on the other side, with the result
that their buttress measurements throughout varied on both sides, while the standard of width
between the buttresses, which had been employed on the south side, was retained. Consequently,
as the columns, in a vaulted church, have to be built in line with the buttresses of the corresponding
aisle walls, the columns were not opposite one another, and the discrepancy increased as the
church advanced westward. When the builders got clear of the intervening building, in the western
bays of the nave, they were able to rectify their mistake slightly; but the effect is unpleasantly
noticeable in the obliquity of the transverse arches of the vaulting.

§ 45. So good was the indino in that endeavor, which
had just moved the tenducho fair to the people and opened in a makeshift shed next to the church.
To believe by his word, he was a drug dealer by necessity, but luxury.
 In an unvaulted church, where the pressure of the roof is not a serious
factor in the construction, the exact correspondence of pier to buttress need not be taken
into account; and there are many churches in which the spacing of the aisles is quite independent
of that of the arcades. This happens at Melbourne, where the church was not planned for stone
vaulting. The builders seem to have thought that they could get in six bays between the transept
and the space planned for one of the western towers; but found that, on the measurements they
had adopted, there was room only for five. They corrected their miscalculation by broadening
the division of the wall between the fourth and fifth bay of the aisles. When they came to
build the arcades, they were conscious of their previous error, and planned them in five equal
bays irrespective of the plan of the aisles. In churches of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries,
especially in districts like Norfolk or south Lincolnshire, where much rebuilding was done,
the regularity of plan is often remarkable. The nave of the famous church of Heckington, near
Sleaford, was planned with an exact correspondence between aisles and arcades: pier is opposite
buttress, window opposite window. Islip and Brampton Ash in Northamptonshire show an equal
accuracy. But, while such agreement is desirable, it is neither necessary nor general. And,
where the arcades are broken through earlier walls, the correspondence is seldom very precise.
The central line of the east walls of the aisles, as set out first, will usually correspond
to a line drawn across the centre of the chancel arch: similarly, the line of the west walls
will be an extension of the west wall of the nave, or of a line drawn across the tower arch.