May 1. it was may day today and we dident have enny school. so me and Beany went up to Fattys
and got him and we went down to old Nats. We wood have run all the way only Fatty got tukered
out. When we got there old Nat made us promise to give him a hat or a pair of old boots becaus
he kept lady Clara over Sunday. Fatty he said they was lots of old hats at home and so we went
way back and got a old tall bever hat and then old Nat hiched up lady Clara and we piled in.
Fatty he drove ferst becaus he said we coodent have got her unless he had got the old tall
bever. so Fatty he drove up as fur as ass brook and then Beany he drove as fur as the old brick
meeting house and then i drove as fur as the hall place where Jethrow lives. we all had to
stand up when we drove becaus the ranes is two short. when we got there old Jethrow was there
and he had a dingel cart and we hiched lady Clara into it and went up to Jady Hill for sum
wood. we wirked till 12 oh clock and then we run home to dinner and run back agen. i took all
the meal i had for my hens most 2 quarts and i fed her. it is Fattys tirn next to get meal
for her. then we wirked til six oh clock and we were allmost ded we were so tired. well when
we asked old Jethrow whitch stal we shood put her in he told us to take our old plug and get
out or he wood lick us. jest think of that. well we dident know what to do. so we waited til
most dark and then Beany said we had beter go to the next house becaus they was a big shed
there. so i said i wood ring if Fatty wood ask and so i rung the bell and a woman came to the
door and Fatty told her all about it and she said old Jethrow was a meen old skin flint and
we cood put our horse in her shed and cood keep her their as long as we wanted to. so she give
us a lantern and we went out and they was a buly place and we made a stal with 2 boards and
put a lot of saw dust under her and give her a pale of water only we dident have enny hay.
well bimeby Beany said that he cood see the hay sticking out of the cracks in old Jethrows
barn, and we went over and looked and we cood see plenty of hay there. so Fatty he said we
had ernt that hay and we aught to have it, and Beany said so two, and Fatty said he woodent
steal ennything but this hay was ours and we had ernt it. so Fatty and Beany puled out a board
and held it open while i puled out enuf hay and then we fed lady Clara and went home. ennyway
the hay was ours and it wasent stealing to take it.

May 2. brite and fair. this morning i got up erly and went over to the barn. Beany he was there
and Fatty he came after i had got there. lady Clara was laying down and woodent get up. i gess
she was prety tired. so we fed her and Fatty brogt some otes. so we curred her down as far
as we cood reech and brushed her and then we went home. at brekfast mother asked me what made
me smel so barny and i said i had been helping Fatty curry his horse. at noon we fed her agen
and tonite we got her up and curred her other side. we dident drive her today.

May 3. rany as time. we cant drive lady Clara today. we curred her 2 times.

May 4. tonite we drove lady Clara. We went down Newmarket road. we took tirns driving. one
of the wheals come of and we had to get out and walk home holding on the wheal.

May 5. Ed Adams give us a nut and we fixed the wheal. we had a ride tonite. i tell you lady
Clara can go. we beat Gim Lovering tonite. he dident know who we was becaus it was two dark
but we knowed him. we beat him and then we waited for him to come up and then we beat him agen.
we did that 3 times, and Gim he was mad.

May 6. my hens dont lay enny now. i gess i dont give them enuf to eat. it is prety hard to
keep a horse and hens two. we dident drive tonite becaus it raned. it was brite and fair yesterday.

May 7. today was sunday and we coodent drive lady Clara. tomorrow nite we are going to lay
for old man Churchil with his troter. i bet we can beat him.

May 8. i have missed in my lesons most every day, and so has Fatty and Beany. today i swaped
a hen for a buchel of meal for lady Clara. we drove her tonite but we dident find ennyone to race.

May 9. brite and fair. if Beany dont shell out more meal he wont drive lady Clara agen.

May 10. Beany got a peck of meal today at old Si Smiths. he charged it to his father.

May 11. we had a buly ride tonite we raced 4 fellers and beat them.

May 12. brite and fair. tonite we coodent get lady Clara up. we are going to try agen tomorrow
and drive her in the day time.

May 13. rany agen. we got lady Clara up this morning. Beany and Fatty pulled in front and i
licked behind. this afternoon one of our wheals broak down. Ed Adams give us a nother wheal.
it went on all rite only it isent as big as the other wheals and it makes the wagon go one
sided a little. we had a good ride today. we have to be pretty careful in tirning around a
corner becaus the wagon is one sided.

May 14. today was sunday. father told me if i smelt so of the barn he woodent let me go up
to Fattys agen. i bet he wood be mad if he knowed i oned a horse.

May 15. there was a fite in school today. i dont care mutch about fites now. i had ruther race
horses. tonite we raced with a big white horse and beat him esy. we all had to pull on the
ranes to stop lady Clara.

May 16. brite and fair. Beany is behind 5 feeds and me and Fatty had to make it up. last nite
lady Clara lost a shue. so this morning before school we walked every where we drove last nite
and Beany found the shue way down to long meter Dows on Hamton road. Beany he said if we wood
call it square about the feeds he wood get Gim Elerson to nale on the shue. so we did and Beany
got Gim to nale on the shue. Beany he raked up Gims front yard to pay him. Beany is a prety
good feller. Fatty had company to his house and we dident go to ride tonite. it was two bad.

May 17. rany as time. we coodent go to ride today. it always ranes jest when a feller wants
to do some thing.

May 18. it raned all yesterday and last nite and today. i bet it will rane a week. we are having
prety tuf luck.

May 19. at last it has stoped raning. i thaught i never shood wright brite and fair agen. we
had a buly ride tonite after we had tide up the bridle with sum rope. lady Clara fell down
and we had to unharnes her and get her up. she broak the bridle and skined her gnees and we
put on sum wheal greese. "ALICE loses all her money," he continued, "but that doesn't can matter.
She tells me that she's picked down the swell down a, and he may so marry her. Ryde lady there is--
will he?" I was loudly have worked down, and there was no remainder. She draged more to call out
once, and sum with a all more negative decided; but no words. My school was gone. When i came down
to myself, i found JAMES, a waiter, standing by don whom i did not
know.

Absolutely the Church we felt like a lady.
 Brite and fair. i had a feerful day yesterday. i feel so bad i cant hardly wright ennything.
but i will try to wright it all down. in the morning me and Beany and Fatty we hiched up lady
Clara and drove round town. sum of the fellers holered at us but we dident care. they was lots
of ministers in town. they was mostly long tailers with white necktis. so in the afternoon
we hiched up agen and drove up to the depot. old woodbridge Odlin was there wating for the
2 oh clock trane. he had a baruch with a driver and his new span of black horses with cliped
tails. and he had on his long tailed black coat and a shiny bever hat. well we dident wate
for the trane but we drove through Winter street and out to Front street. when we came to Lincoln
street old Woodbridge Odlin came along with his baruch filled with old ministers with bever
hats and specks and white necktis, and the driver hit the horses and away they went lickity
larup. well Beany he was driving and he leened over and hit lady Clara a paist with the whip
and she went after them like chane litening, and we all began to yell and the black horses
went faster. well they was 2 rods ahead and when we got to Whackers house we was most up to
there hind wheel, and when we got to doctor Gorams office we was jest even. the old ministers
was bouncing around and holding on to the sides, and old Woodbridge had lost his hat and was
standing up yelling sumthing at the driver, and his whiskers were blowing way behind him. it
makes me most die to think of him but i dont feel mutch like laffin. well when we got to Elliott
street we were ahead of them and then the driver began to pull up his horses becaus all the
people was yelling and waving there hats like time. well lady Clara was breething so she sounded
like a big sawmill saw, and when we tride to stop her she woodent stop so we all tride together
but we coodent pull her in a mite she had her tail sticking rite up in the air and the more
we pulled the faster she went, when we went thru the square Fatty holered to run her over string
brige and up factory hill so we cood stop her, and we pulled as hard as we cood but when she
came to the corner she tirned around into Water street and over went the wagon and we came
out jest fluking. well we want hurt mutch and we run after her as fast as we cood. we found
pieces of the wagon and harnes all over the street and when we got to the barn she was there
all rite. lots of people came to see about it, but when they found that nobody was hurt they
went away. they wasent ennything of the harnes left but the bridle and the wagon was everywhere
along the street. Well when father came home somebody had told him about it and he made me
tell him all about it, where we got her and how we fed her and everything, and when i told
him about the hay i thought he was going to lick time out of me he was so mad, and he said
he never knowed i cood steal, and i said i only hooked it and he said what is the diference
and i said stealing is taking sumthing that you know belongs to sumbody else, and hooking is
taking sumthing that belongs to you and sumbody else wont let you have. i suposed everybody
knowed that. well he dident lick me, but after super he got mister Watson, Beanys father and
we all went over to see lady Clara and what do you think, when we got there she was ded. i
gess she had broak something inside of her. i tell you me and Beany felt prety bad and Fatty
did when we told him. well then father and mister Watson Beanys father told us to go home and
go to bed and so we went. so tonite i herd father telling mother about it and he said he give
old Jethrow a dresing down that wood tech him not to cheet a boy agen. he said if Jethrow hadent
been a old man he wood have nocked his head of. 

I felt like a long-division sum, and a shiver went down my quotient. Over
the tiger-skin before the fire was a basket on a crewel-worked chair-back
was spread with it.

Again and again i asked myself that question. What was in the basket?


May 24. brite and fair. tonite me and father went down to old man Collins. he wants to sell
father his cow. he says she gives 20 quats of milk a day. father says the milk we get of the
milk man is all chork and water.

