	The Gentleman's observation, That the general belief of the resurrection creates a presumption
that it stands upon good evidence, and therefore people look no farther, but follow their fathers,
as their fathers did their grandfathers before them, is in great measure true; but it is a
truth nothing to his purpose.  He allows, that the resurrection has been believed in all ages
of the church; that is, from the very time of the resurrection: what then prevailed with those
who first received it? They certainly did not follow the example of their fathers.  Here then
is the point, How did this fact gain credit in the world at first?  Credit it has gained without
doubt.  If the multitude at present go into this belief through prejudice, example, and for
company sake, they do in this case no more, nor otherwise, than they do in all cases.  And
it cannot be denied, but that truth may be received through prejudice, (as it is called), i.e.
without examining the proof, or merits of the cause, as well as falsehood.  What general truth
is there, the merits of which all the world, or the one hundredth part has examined?  It is
smartly said somewhere, That the priest only continues what the nurse began.  But the life
of the remark consists in the quaintness of the antithesis between the nurse and the priest;
and owes its support much more to sound than to sense.  For is it possible that children  should
not hear something of the common and popular opinions of their country, whether these opinions
be true or false?  Do they not learn the common maxims of reason this way?  Perhaps every man
first learned from his nurse that two and two make four; and whenever she divides an apple
among her children, she instills into them this prejudice, That the whole is equal to its parts,
and all the parts equal to the whole: and yet Sir Isaac Newton, (shame on him!) what work has
he made, what a building he has erected upon the foundation of this nursery-learning?  As to
religion, there never was a religion, there never will be one, whether true or false, publickly
owned in any country,  but children have heard, and ever will hear,  more or less of it from
those who are placed about them.  And if this is, and ever must be the case, whether the religion
be true or false; 'tis highly absurd to lay stress on this observation, when the question is
about the truth of any religion; for the observation is indifferent to both sides of the question.

	We are now, I think, got through the common-place learning, which must forever, it seems,
attend upon questions of this nature; and are coming to the very merits of the cause.

	And here the Gentleman on the other side thought proper to begin with an account of the people
of the Jews, the people in whose country the fact is laid, and who were originally, and in
some respects principally concerned in its consequences.

	They were, he says, a weak superstitious people, and lived under certain pretended prophecies
and predictions; that upon this ground they had, some time before the appearance of Christ
Jesus, conceived great expectation of  the coming of a victorious prince, who should deliver
them from the Roman yoke, and make them all kings and princes. He goes on then to observe,
how liable the people were, in this state of things,  to be imposed on, and led into rebellion,
by any one who was bold enough to take upon him to personate the prince expected.  He observes
further, that in fact many such imposters did arise, and deceived multitudes to their ruin
and destruction.

	I have laid these things together, because I do not intend to dispute these matters with the
Gentleman.  Whether the Jews were a weak and superstitious people, and influenced by false
prophecies, or whether they had true prophecies among them, is not material to the present
question:  it is enough for the Gentleman's argument if I allow the fact to be as he has stated
it, that they did expect a victorious prince; that they were upon this account exposed to be
practised on by pretenders; and in fact were often so deluded.

	This foundation being laid, it was natural to expect, and I believe your Lordship and every
one present did expect, that the Gentleman would go on to shew, that Jesus laid hold of this
opportunity,  struck in with the opinion of the people,  and professed himself to be the prince
who was to work their deliverance.  But so far, it seems, is this from being the case, that
the charge upon Jesus is, that he took the contrary part, and set up in opposition to all the
popular notions and prejudices of his country; that he interpreted the prophecies to another
sense and meaning than his countrymen did; and by his expositions took away all hopes of their
ever seeing the victorious deliverer so much wanted and expected.

	I know not how to bring the Gentleman's premisses and his conclusion to any agreement; they
seem to be at a great variance at present.  If it be the likeliest method for an imposter to
succeed, to build on the popular opinions, prejudices and prophecies of the people; then surely
an imposter cannot possibly take a worse method, than to set up in opposition to all the prejudices
and prophecies of the country.  Where was the art and cunning then of taking this method? Could
anything be expected from it but hatred, contempt, and persecution? And did Christ in fact
meet with any other treatment from the Jews?  And yet when he found, as the Gentleman allows
he did, that he must perish in this attempt, did he change his note?  did he come about, and
drop any intimations agreeable to the notions of the people? It is not pretended.  This, which,
in any other case which ever happened, would be taken to be a plain mark of great honesty,
or great stupidity, or of both, is in the present case art, policy, and contrivance.

	But, it seems, Jesus dared not set up to be the victorious prince expected, for victories
are not to be counterfeited.  I hope it was no crime in him that he did not assume this false
character, and try to abuse the credibility of the people; if he had done so, it certainly
would have been a crime; and therefore in this point at least he is innocent.  I do not suppose
the Gentleman imagines the Jews were well founded in their expectation of a temporal prince:
and therefore when Christ opposed this conceit at the manifest hazard of his life, as he certainly
had truth on his side, so the presumption is, that it was for the sake of truth that he exposed
himself.

	No.  He wanted, we are told, the common and necessary foundation for a new revelation, the
authority of an old one to build on.  Very well.  I will not inquire how common, or how necessary
this foundation is to a new revelation; for, be that case as it will, it is evident, that in
the method Christ took, he had not, nor could have the supposed advantage of such foundation.
For why is this foundation necessary?  A friend of the Gentleman's shall tell you "Because
it must be difficult, if not impossible, to introduce among men (who in all civilized countries
are bred up in the belief of some revealed religion) a revealed religion wholly new, or such
as has no reference to a preceding one; for that would be to combat all men on too many respects,
and not to proceed on a sufficient number of principles necessary to be assented to by those
on whom the first impressions of a new religion are proposed to be made."  You see now the
reason of the necessity of this foundation: it is, that the new teacher may have the advantage
of old popular opinions, and fix himself upon the prejudices of the people.  Had Christ any
such advantages? or did he seek any such?  The people expected a victorious prince; he told
them they were mistaken:  they held as sacred the traditions of the elders;  he told them those
traditions made the law of God of none effect:  they valued themselves for being the peculiar
people of God; he told them, that people from all quarters of the world should be the people
of God, and sit down with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom: they thought God could
be worshipped only at Jerusalem;  he told them God might and should be worshipped everywhere:
they were superstitious in the observance of the sabbath; he, according to their reckoning,
broke it frequently:  in a word, their washings of hands and pots, their superstitious distinctions
of meats, their prayers in publick, their villanies in secret, were all reproved, exposed,
and condemned by him; and the cry ran strongly against him, that he came to destroy the Law
and the Prophets.  And now, Sir, what advantage did Christ have of your common and necessary
foundation?  What sufficient number of principles owned by the people did he build on?  If
he adhered to the old revelation in the true sense, or (which is sufficient to the present
argument) in a sense not received by the people, it was in truth the greatest difficulty he
had to struggle with: and therefore what could tempt him, but purely a regard for truth, to
take upon himself so many difficulties, which might have been avoided, could he have been but
silent as to the old revelation, and left the people to their imaginations?

	To carry on this plot, we are told, that the next thing which Jesus did, was, to make choice
of proper persons to be his disciples. The Gentleman has given us their character; but, as
I suppose he has more employment for them before he has done, I desire to defer the consideration
of their abilities and conduct till I hear what work he has for them to do.  I would only observe,
that thus far this plot differs from all that ever I heard of.  Imposters generally take advantage
of the prejudices of the people, generally too they make choice of cunning dextrous fellows
to manage under them; but in this case Jesus opposed all the notions of the people, and made
choice of simpletons, it seems, to conduct his contrivances.

	But what design, what real end was carrying on all this while? Why, the Gentleman tells us,
that the very thing disclaimed, the temporal kingdom, was the real thing aimed at under this
disguise. He told the people there was no foundation to expect a temporal deliverer, warned
them against all who would set up those pretensions;  he declared there was no ground from
the ancient prophecies to expect such a prince: and yet by these very means he was working
his way to an opportunity of declaring himself to be the very prince the people wanted.  We
are still upon the marvelous; every step opens new wonders. I blame not the Gentleman; for
what but this can be imagined to give any account of these measures imputed to Christ?  Be
this never so unlikely, yet this is the only thing that can be said.  Had Christ been charged
with enthusiasm, it would not have been necessary to assign a reason for his conduct:  madness
is unaccountable:  Ratione modoque tractari non vult.  But when design, cunning, and fraud
are made the charge, and carried to such an height, as to suppose him to be a party to the
contrivance of a sham resurrection for himself, it is necessary to say to what end this cunning
tended.  It was, we are told, to a kingdom: and indeed the temptation was little enough, considering
that the chief conductor of the plot was crucified for his pains.  But were the means made
use of  at all probable to achieve the end?  Yes, says the Gentleman, that can't be disputed;
for they had really this effect, the people would have made him King.  Very well: Why was he
not King then?  Why, it happened unluckily that he would not accept the offer, but withdrew
himself from the multitude, and lay concealed until they were dispersed.  It will be said,
perhaps, that Jesus was a better judge of affairs than the people, and saw that it was not
yet time to accept the offer.  Be it so; let us see then what follows.

	The government was alarmed, and Jesus was looked on as a person dangerous  to the state; and
he had discernment enough to see that his death was determined and inevitable.  What does he
do then?  Why, to make the best of a bad case, and to save the benefit of his undertaking to
those who were to succeed him, he pretends to prophecy of his death, which he knew could not
be avoided: Men do not use to play tricks in articulo mortis; but this plot had nothing common,
nothing in the ordinary way. But what if it should appear, that after the foretelling of his
death (through despair of his fortunes it is said) he had it in his power to set up for King
once more, and once more refused the opportunity?  Men in despair lay hold on the least help,
and never refuse the greatest.  Now, the case was really so.  After he had foretold his crucifixion,
he came to Jerusalem in the triumphant manner the Gentleman mentioned; the people strewed his
way with boughs and flowers, and were all at his devotion; the Jewish governors lay still for
fear of the people.  Why was not this opportunity laid hold on to seize the kingdom, or at
least to secure himself from the ignominious death he expected?  For whose sake was he contented
to die?  for whose sake did he contrive this plot of his resurrection?  Wife and children he
had none; his nearest relations gave little credit to him; his disciples were not fit even
to be trusted with the secret, nor capable to manage any advantage that could arise from it.
However, the Gentleman tells us, a kingdom has arisen out of this plot, a kingdom of priests.
But when did it arise?  Some hundred years after the death of Christ, in opposition to his
will, and almost to the subversion of his religion.  And yet we are told this kingdom was the
thing he had in view.  I am apt to think the Gentleman is persuaded, that the dominion he complains
of is contrary to the spirit of the gospel; I am sure some of his friends have taken great
pains to prove it is so.  How then can it be charged as the intention of the gospel to introduce
it?  Whatever the case was, it cannot surely be suspected that Christ died to make Popes and
Cardinals.  The alterations which have happened in the doctrines and practices of churches,
since the Christian religion was settled by those who had an authentick commission to settle
it, are quite out of the question, when the inquiry is about the truth of the Christian religion.
Christ and his Apostles did not vouch for the truth of all that should be taught in the church
in future times; nay, they foretold and fore warned the world against such corrupt teachers.
It is therefore absurd to challenge the religion of Christ, because of the corruptions which
have spread among Christians.  The gospel has no more concern with them, and ought no more
to be charged with them, than with the doctrines of the Alcoran.

	There is but one observation more, I think, which the Gentleman made under this head.  Jesus,
he says, referred to the authority of ancient  prophecies to prove that the Messias was to
die and rise again;  the ancient books referred to are extant, and no such prophecies, he says,
are to be found.  Now, whether the Gentleman can find these prophecies or no, is not material
to the present question. It is allowed that Christ foretold his own death and resurrection;
if the resurrection was managed by fraud, Christ was certainly in the fraud himself, by foretelling
the fraud which was to happen: disprove therefore the resurrection, and we shall have no further
occasion for prophecy.  On the other side, by foretelling the resurrection, he certainly put
the proof of his mission on the truth of the event. Whether it be the character of the Messias,
in the ancient Prophets, or no, that he should die, and rise again; without doubt Jesus is
not the Messias, if  he did not rise again: for, by his own prophecy, he made it part of the
character of the Messias.  If the event justified the prediction, it is such an evidence as
no man of sense and reason can reject.  One would naturally think, that the foretelling his
resurrection, and giving such publick notice to expect it, that his keenest enemies were fully
apprised of it, carried with it the greatest mark of sincere dealing.  It stands thus far clear
of the suspicion of fraud.  And had it proceeded from enthusiasm, and an heated imagination,
the dead body at least would have rested in the grave, and without further evidence have confuted
such pretensions: and since the dead body was not only carried openly to the grave, but there
watched and guarded, and yet could never afterwards be found, never heard of more as a dead
body, there must of necessity have been either a real miracle, or a great fraud in this case.
Enthusiasm dies with the man, and has no operation on his dead body.  There is therefore here
no medium: you must either admit the miracle, or prove the fraud.

	Judge.	Mr. A.  You are at liberty either to reply to what has been said under this head, or
to go on with your cause

	Mr. A.	My Lord, the observations I laid before you, were but introductory to the main evidences
on which the merits of the cause must rest.  The Gentleman concluded, that here must be a real
miracle or a great fraud; a fraud, he means, to which Jesus in his lifetime was a party.  There
is, he says, no medium.  I beg his pardon.  Why might it not be an enthusiasm in the master
which occasioned the prediction, and fraud in the servants who put it in execution?

	Mr. B.	My Lord, This is new matter, and not a reply.  The Gentleman opened this transaction
as a fraud from one end to the other. Now he supposes Christ to have been an honest, poor enthusiast,
and the disciples only to be cheats.

	Judge.	Sir, if you go to new matter, the council on the other side must be admitted to answer.

	Mr. A.	My Lord, I have no such intention.  I was observing, that the account I gave of Jesus
was only to introduce the evidence that is to be laid before the court. It cannot be expected,
that I should know all the secret designs of this contrivance, especially considering that
we have but short accounts of this affair, and those too conveyed through hands of friends
and parties to the plot.  In such a case it is enough if we can imagine what the views probably
were; and in such case too it must be very easy for a Gentleman of parts to raise contrary
imaginations, and to argue plausibly from them.  But the Gentleman has rightly observed, that
if the resurrection be a fraud, there is an end to all pretensions, good or bad, that were
to be supported by it: therefore I shall go on to prove this fraud, which is one main part
of the cause now to be determined.

	I beg leave to remind you,  that Jesus in his lifetime foretold his death, and that he should
rise again the third day.  The first part of his prediction was accomplished:  he died on the
cross and was buried.  I will not trouble you with the particulars of his crucifixion, death,
and burial;  it is a well known story.

	Mr. B.	My Lord, I desire to know, whether the Gentleman charges any fraud upon this part of
the history.  Perhaps he may be of the opinion by and by, that there was a sleight of hand
in the crucifixion, and that Christ only counterfeited death.

	Mr. A.	No, no; have no such fears; he was not crucified by his disciples; but by the Romans
and the Jews; and they were in very good earnest.  I will prove beyond contradiction, that
the dead body was fairly laid in the tomb; and it will be well for you if you can get it as
fairly out again.

	Judge.	Go on with your evidence.

	Mr. A.	My Lord, the crucifixion being over, the dead body was conveyed to a sepulchre; and
in the general opinion there seemed to be an end of the whole design.  But the governors of
the Jews, watchful for the safety of the people,  called to mind that Jesus in his lifetime
had said, that he would rise again on the third day.  It may at first sight seem strange that
they should give any attention to such a prophecy; a prophecy big with confidence and presumption,
and which to the common sense of mankind carried its confutation along with it: and "there
is no other nation in the world which would not have slighted such a vain prognostication of
a known imposter."  But they had warning to be watchful.  It was not long before, that the
people "had like to have been fatally deluded and imposed on by him in the pretended resuscitation
of Lazarus."  They had fully discovered the cheat in the case of Lazarus, and had narrowly
escaped the dangerous consequences of it.  And though Jesus was dead, yet he had many disciples
and followers alive, who were ready enough to combine in any fraud, to verify the prediction
of their master.  Should they succeed, the rulers foresaw, the consequences in this case would
be more fatal than those which before they had narrowly escaped.  Upon this account they addressed
themselves to the Roman governor, told him how the case was, and desired that he would grant
them a guard to watch the sepulchre;  that the service would not be long, for the prediction
limited the resurrection to the third day; and when that was over, the soldiers might be released
from the duty.  Pilate granted the request; and a guard was set to watch the sepulchre.

	This was not all.  The chief priests took another method to prevent all frauds, and it was
the best that could possibly be taken; which was, to seal up the door of the sepulchre.  To
understand to what purpose this caution was used, you need only consider what is intended by
sealing up doors, and boxes, or writings.  Is it not for the satisfaction of all parties concerned,
that they may be sure things are in the state they left them, when they come and find their
seals not injured?  This was the method used by Darius, when Daniel was cast into the lions
den;  he sealed the door of the den.  And for what purpose? Was it not to satisfy himself and
his court, that no art had been used to preserve Daniel? And when he came and saw Daniel safe,
and his seal untouched, he was satisfied.  And indeed if we consider the thing rightly, a seal
thus used imports a covenant.  If you deliver writings to a person sealed, and he accepts them
so, your delivery and his acceptance implies a covenant between you, that the writings shall
be delivered and the seal whole; and should the seal be broken, it would be a manifest fraud,
and breach of trust. Nay, so strongly is this covenant implied, that there needs no special
agreement in the case; it is a compact which men are put under by the law of nations, and the
common consent of mankind.  When you send a letter sealed to the post- house, you have not
indeed a special agreement with all persons through whose hands it passes, that it shall not
be opened by any hand , but his only to whom it is directed;  yet men know themselves to be
under this restraint, and that it is unlawful and dishonorable to transgress it.

	Since then the sepulchre was sealed; since the seal imported a covenant, consider who were
the parties to this covenant.  They could be no other than the chief priests on one side, and
the apostles on the other.  To prove this, no special agreement need be shewn.  On one side,
there was a concern to see the prophecy fulfilled; on the other, to prevent fraud in fulfilling
it.  The sum of their agreement was naturally this, that the seals should be opened at the
time appointed for the resurrection, that all parties might see and be satisfied, whether the
dead body was come to life or no.

	What now would any reasonable man expect from these circumstances?  Don't you expect to hear,
that the chief priests and the apostles met at the time appointed, opened the seals, and that
the matter in dispute was settled beyond all controversy one way or other? But see how it happened,
The seals were broken, the body stolen away in the night by the disciples; none of the chief
priests present, or summoned to see the seals opened.  The guards, when examined, were forced
to confess the truth, though joined with an acknowledgement of their guilt; which made them
liable to be punished by Pilate:  they confessed that they were asleep, and in the mean time
that the body was stolen away by the disciples.

	This evidence of the Roman soldiers, and the far stronger evidence arising from the clandestine
method of breaking up the seals, are sufficient proofs of fraud.

	But there is another circumstance in the case, of equal weight. Though the seals did not prevent
the cheat entirely, yet they effectually falsified the prediction.  According to the prediction,
Jesus was to rise on the third day, or after the third day.  At this time the chief priests
intended to be present, and probably would have been attended by a great multitude.  This made
it impossible to play any tricks at that  time; and therefore the apostles were forced the
hasten the plot: and accordingly the resurrection happened a day before its time; for the body
was buried on the Friday, and was gone early in the morning on Sunday.

	These are plain facts; facts drawn from the accounts given to us by those who are friends
to the belief of the resurrection.  The Gentleman won't call these imaginations, or complain
that I have given him schemes instead of evidence.

	Mr. B.	My Lord, I am now to consider that part of the argument upon which the Gentleman lays
the greatest stress.  He has given us his evidence; mere evidence, he says, unmixed, and clear
of all schemes and imaginations.  In one thing indeed he has been as good as his word; he has
proved beyond contradiction, that Christ died, and was laid in the sepulchre: for, without
doubt, when the Jews sealed the stone, they took care to see that the body was there; otherwise
their precaution was useless.  He has proved too, that the prediction of Christ concerning
his own resurrection, was a thing publickly known in all Jerusalem; for he owns, that this
gave occasion for all the care that was taken to prevent fraud.  If this open prediction implies
a fraudulent design, the evidence is strong with the Gentleman: but if it shall appear to be,
what it really was, the greatest mark that could be given of sincerity and plain dealing in
the whole affair, the evidence will still be as strong, but the weight of it will fall on the
wrong side for the Gentleman's purpose.

	In the next place, the Gentleman seems to be at a great loss to account for the credit which
the chief priests gave to the prediction of the resurrection, by the care they took to prevent
it.  He thinks the thing in itself was too extravagant and absurd to deserve any regard; and
that no one would have regarded such a prediction in any other time or place.  I agree with
the Gentleman entirely: but then I demand of him a reason why the chief priests were under
any concern about this prediction.  Was it because they had plainly discovered him to be a
cheat and an imposter?  It is impossible.  This reason would have convinced them of the folly
and presumption of the prediction.  It must therefore necessarily be, that they had discovered
something in the life and actions of Christ which raised this jealousy, and made them listen
to a prophecy in his case, which in any other case they would have despised.  And what could
this be, but the secret conviction they were under, by his many miracles, of his extraordinary
powers? This care therefore of the chief priests over his dead, helpless body, is a lasting
testimony of the mighty works which Jesus did in his lifetime; for had the Jews been persuaded
that he performed no wonders in his life, I think they would not have been afraid of seeing
any done by him after his death.

	But the Gentleman is of another mind.  He says, they had discovered a plain cheat in the case
of Lazarus, whom Christ  had pretended to raise from the dead; and therefore they took all
this care to guard against a like cheat.

	I begin now to want evidence;  I am forbid to call this imagination, what else to call it
I know not.  There is not the least intimation given from history, that there was any cheat
in the case of Lazarus, or that any one suspected a cheat.  Lazarus lived in the country after
he was raised from the dead; and though his life was secretly and basely sought after, yet
no body had the courage to call to a trial for his part in the cheat.  It may be said, perhaps,
the rulers were terrified.  Very well:  but they were not terrified when they had Christ in
their possession, when they brought him to a trial; why did they not  then object this cheat
to Christ?  It would have been much to their purpose.  Instead of that, they accuse him of
a design to pull down their temple, to destroy their law, and of blasphemy; but not one word
of any fraud in the case of Lazarus, or any other case.

	But not to enter into the merits of this cause, which has in it too many circumstances for
your present consideration;  let us take the case to be as the Gentleman states it, that the
cheat in the case of Lazarus was detected; what consequence is to be expected?  In all other
cases, impostors, once discovered, grow odious and contemptible, and quite incapable of doing
further mischief; so little are they regarded, that even when they tell the truth, they are
neglected.  Was it so in this case?  No, says the Gentleman; the Jews were the more careful
that Christ should not cheat them in his own resurrection.  Surely this is a most singular
case.  When the people thought him a Prophet, the chief priests sought to kill him, and thought
his death would put an end to his pretensions:  when they and the people had discovered him
to be a cheat, then they thought him not safe, even when he was dead, but were afraid he should
prove a true Prophet, and, according to his own prediction, rise again.  A needless, a preposterous
fear!

	In the next place, the Gentleman tells us how proper the care was that the chief priests took.
I agree perfectly with him.  Human policy could not invent a more proper method to guard against
and prevent all fraud.  They delivered the sepulchre, with the dead body in it, to a company
of Roman soldiers, who had orders from their officer to watch the sepulchre.  Their care went
further still;  they sealed the door of the sepulchre.

	Upon this occasion, the Gentleman has explained the use of seals when applied to such purposes.
They imply, he says, a covenant, that the things sealed up shall remain in the condition they
are till the parties to the sealing agree to open them.  I see no reason to enter into the
learning about seals:  let it be as the Gentleman has opened it; what then?

	Why then, it seems, the apostles and chief priests were in a covenant that there should be
no resurrection, at least no opening of the door, till they met together at an appointed time
to view and unseal the door.

	Your Lordship and the court will now consider the probability of this supposition.  When Christ
was seized and carried to his trial, his disciples fled, out of a just apprehension that they
should, if apprehended, be sacrificed with their master.  Peter indeed followed him; but his
courage soon failed, and it is well known in what manner he denied him.  After the death of
Christ, his disciples were so far from being ready to engage for his resurrection, or to enter
into terms and agreements for the manner in which it should be done, that they themselves did
not believe it ever would be;  they gave over all hopes and thoughts of it;  and far from entering
into engagements with the chief priests, their whole concern was, to keep themselves concealed
from them.  This is a well known case, and I will not trouble you with particular authorities
to prove this truth.  Can any man now in his right senses think, that the disciples under these
circumstances entered into this covenant with the Jews?  I believe the Gentleman don't think
it, and for that reason says, that seals so used import a covenant without a special agreement.
Be it so; and it must then be allowed, that the apostles were no more concerned in these seals,
than every other man in the country, and no more answerable for them; for the covenant reached
to every body as well as to them, since they were under no special contract.

	But I beg pardon for spending your time unnecessarily, when the simple plain account of this
matter will best answer all these jealousies and suspicions.  The Jews, it is plain, were exceedingly
solicitous about this event;  for this reason they obtained a guard from Pilate; and when they
had, they were still suspicious lest their guards should deceive them, and enter into combination
against them. To secure this point, they sealed the door, and required of the guards to deliver
up the sepulchre to them sealed as it was.  This is the natural and true account of the matter.
Do but consider it in a parallel case.  Suppose a prince should set a guard at the door of
his treasury, and the officer who placed the guard should seal the door, and say to the soldiers,
You shall be answerable for the seal if I find it broken: would not all the world understand
the seal to be fixed to guard against the soldiers, who might, though employed to keep off
others, be ready enough to pilfer themselves?  This is in all such cases but a necessary care;
you may place guards, and when you do all is in their power: Et quis custodes custodiat ipsos?

	But it seems, that, notwithstanding all this care,  the seals were broken, and the body gone.
If you complain of this, Sir, demand satisfaction of your guards; they only are responsible
for it:  the disciples had no more to do in it than you or I.

	The guards, the Gentleman says, have confessed the truth, and owned that they were asleep,
and that the disciples in the mean time stole away the body.  I wish the guards were in court,
I would ask them, how they came to be so punctual in relating what happened when they were
asleep?  what induced them to believe that the body was stolen at all? what, that it was stolen
by the disciples; since by their own confession they were asleep and say nothing, saw no body?
But since they are not to be had, I would desire to ask the Gentleman the same questions; and
whether he has any authorities in point, to shew, that ever any man was admitted as an evidence
in any court, to prove a fact which happened when he was asleep?  I see the Gentleman is uneasy;
I'll press the matter no further.

