Proof.- An emotion towards a thing, which we conceive to be free, is greater than one towards
what we conceive to be necessary (III:xlix.), and, consequently, still greater than one towards
what we conceive as possible, or contingent (IV:xi.). But to conceive a thing as free can be
nothing else than to conceive it simply, while we are in ignorance of the causes whereby it
has been determined to action (II:xxxv.Note); therefore, an emotion towards a thing which we
conceive simply is, other conditions being equal, greater than one, which we feel towards what
is necessary, possible, or contingent, and, consequently, it is the greatest of all. Q.E.D.

Prop.VI. The mind has greater power over the emotions and is less subject thereto, in so far
as it understands all things as necessary.

Proof.- The mind understands all things to be necessary (I:xxix.) and to be determined to existence
and operation by an infinite chain of causes; therefore (by the foregoing Proposition), it
thus far brings it about, that it is less subject to the emotions arising therefrom, and (III:xlviii.)
feels less emotion towards the things themselves. Q.E.D.

Note.- The more this knowledge, that things are necessary, is applied to particular things,
which we conceive more distinctly and vividly, the greater is the power of the mind over the
emotions, as experience also testifies. For we see, that the pain arising from the loss of
any good is mitigated, as soon as the man who has lost it perceives, that it could not by any
means have been preserved. So also we see that no one pities an infant, because it cannot speak,
walk, or reason, or lastly, because it passes so many years, as it were, in unconsciousness.
Whereas, if most people were born full-grown and only one here and there as an infant, everyone
would pity the infants; because infancy would not then be looked on as a state natural and
necessary, but as a fault or delinquency in Nature; and we may note several other instances
of the same sort.

Prop.VII. Emotions which are aroused or spring from reason, if we take account of time, are
stronger than those, which are attributable to particular objects that we regard as absent.

Proof.- We do not regard a thing as absent, by reason of the emotion wherewith we conceive
it, but by reason of the body, being affected by another emotion excluding the existence of
the said thing (II:xvii.). Wherefore, the emotion, which is referred to the thing which we
regard as absent, is not of a nature to overcome the rest of a man's activities and power (IV:vi.),
but is, on the contrary, of a nature to be in some sort controlled by the emotions, which exclude
the existence of its external cause (IV:ix.). But an emotion which springs from reason is necessarily
referred to the common properties of things (see the def. of reason in II:xl.Note.ii.), which
we always regard as present (for there can be nothing to exclude their present existence),
and which we always conceive in the same manner (II:xxxviii.). Wherefore an emotion of this
kind always remains the same; and consequently (V:Ax.i.) emotions, which are contrary thereto
and are not kept going by their external causes, will be obliged to adapt themselves to it
more and more, until they are no longer contrary to it; to this extent the emotion which springs
from reason is more powerful. Q.E.D.

Prop.VIII. An emotion is stronger in proportion to the number of simultaneous concurrent causes
whereby it is aroused.

Proof.- Many simultaneous causes are more powerful than a few (III:vii.): therefore (IV:v.),
in proportion to the increased number of simultaneous causes whereby it is aroused, an emotion
becomes stronger. Q.E.D.

Note.- This proposition is also evident from V:Ax.ii.

Prop.IX. An emotion, which is attributable to many and diverse causes which the mind regards
as simultaneous with the emotion itself, is less hurtful, and we are less subject thereto and
less affected towards each of its causes, than if it were a different and equally powerful
emotion attributable to fewer causes or to a single cause.

Proof-. An emotion is only bad or hurtful, in so far as it hinders the mind from being able
to think (IV:xxvi., IV:xxvii.); therefore, an emotion, whereby the mind is determined to the
contemplation of several things at once, is less hurtful than another equally powerful emotion,
which so engrosses the mind in the single contemplation of a few objects or of one, that it
is unable to think of anything else; this was our first point. Again, as the mind's essence,
in other words, its power (III:vii.), consists solely in thought (II:xi.), the mind is less
passive in respect to an emotion, which causes it to think of several things at once, than
in regard to an equally strong emotion, which keeps it engrossed in the contemplation of a
few or of a single object: this was our second point. Lastly, this emotion (III:xlviii.), in
so far as it is attributable to several causes, is less powerful in regard to each of them. Q.E.D.

Prop.X. So long as we are not assailed by emotions contrary to our nature, we have the power
of arranging and associating the modifications of our body according to the intellectual order.

Proof.- The emotions, which are contrary to our nature, that is (IV:xxx.), which are bad, are
bad in so far as they impede the mind from understanding (IV:xxvii.). So long, therefore, as
we are not assailed by emotions contrary to our nature, the mind's power, whereby it endeavours
to understand things (IV:xxvi.), is not impeded, and therefore it is able to form clear and
distinct ideas and to deduce them one from another (II:xl.Note.ii. and II:xlvii.Note); consequently
we have in such cases the power of arranging and associating the modifications of the body
according to the intellectual order. Q.E.D.

Note.- By this power of rightly arranging and associating the bodily modifications we can guard
ourselves from being easily affected by evil emotions. For (V:vii.) a greater force is needed
for controlling the emotions, when they are arranged and associated according to the intellectual
order, than when they, are uncertain and unsettled. The best we can do, therefore, so long
as we do not possess a perfect knowledge of our emotions, is to frame a system of right conduct,
or fixed practical precepts, to commit it to memory, and to apply it forthwith to the particular
circumstances which now and again meet us in life, so that our imagination may become fully
imbued therewith, and that it may be always ready to our hand. For instance, we have laid down
among the rules of life (IV:xlvi., & Note), that hatred should be overcome with love or high-
mindedness, and not required with hatred in return. Now, that this precept of reason may be
always ready to our hand in time of need, we should often think over and reflect upon the wrongs
generally committed by men, and in what manner and way they may be best warded off by high-mindedness:
we shall thus associate the idea of wrong with the idea of this precept, which accordingly
will always be ready for use when a wrong is done to us (II:xviii.). If we keep also in readiness
the notion of our true advantage, and of the good which follows from mutual friendships, and
common fellowships; further, if we remember that complete acquiescence is the result of the
right way of life (IV:lii.), and that men, no less than everything else, act by the necessity
of their nature: in such case I say the wrong, or the hatred, which commonly arises therefrom,
will engross a very small part of our imagination and will be easily overcome; or, if the anger
which springs from a grievous wrong be not overcome easily, it will nevertheless be overcome,
though not without a spiritual conflict, far sooner than if we had not thus reflected on the
subject beforehand. As is indeed evident from V:vi.,V:vii.,V:viii. We should, in the same way,
reflect on courage as a means of overcoming fear; the ordinary dangers of life should frequently
be brought to mind and imagined, together with the means whereby through readiness of resource
and strength of mind we can avoid and overcome them. But we must note, that in arranging our
thoughts and conceptions we should always bear in mind that which is good in every individual
thing (IV:lxiii.Coroll. and III:lix.), in order that we may always be determined to action
by an emotion of pleasure. For instance, if a man sees that he is too keen in the pursuit of
honour, let him think over its right use, the end for which it should be pursued, and the means
whereby he may attain it. Let him not think of its misuse, and its emptiness, and the fickleness
of mankind, and the like, whereof no man thinks except through a morbidness of disposition;
with thoughts like these do the most ambitious most torment themselves, when they despair of
gaining the distinctions they hanker after, and in thus giving vent to their anger would fain
appear wise. Wherefore it is certain that those, who cry out the loudest against the misuse
of honour and the vanity of the world, are those who most greedily covet it. This is not peculiar
to the ambitious, but is common to all who are ill-used by fortune, and who are infirm in spirit.
For a poor man also, who is miserly, will talk incessantly of the misuse of wealth and of the
vices of the rich; whereby he merely torments himself, and shows the world that he is intolerant,
not only of his own poverty, but also of other people's riches. So, again, those who have been
ill received by a woman they love think of nothing but the inconstancy, treachery, and other
stock faults of the fair sex; all of which they consign to oblivion, directly they are again
taken into favour by their sweetheart. Thus he who would govern his emotions and appetite solely
by the love of freedom strives, as far as he can, to gain a knowledge of the virtues and their
causes, and to fill his spirit with the joy which arises from the true knowledge of them: he
will in no wise desire to dwell on men's faults, or to carp at his fellows, or to revel in
a false show of freedom. Whosoever will diligently observe and practise these precepts (which
indeed are not difficult) will verily, in a short space of time, be able, for the most part,
to direct his actions according to the commandments of reason.

Prop.XI. In proportion as a mental image is referred to more objects, so is it more frequent,
or more often vivid, and occupies the mind more.

Proof.- In proportion as a mental image or an emotion is referred to more objects, so are there
more causes whereby it can be aroused and fostered, all of which (by hypothesis) the mind contemplates
simultaneously in association with the given emotion; therefore the emotion is more frequent,
or is more often in full vigour, and (V:viii.) occupies the mind more. Q.E.D.

Prop.XII. The mental images of things are more easily associated with the images referred to
things which we clearly and distinctly understand, than with others.

Proof.- Things, which we clearly and distinctly understand, are either the common properties
of things or deductions therefrom (see definition of Reason, II:.xl.Note ii.), and are consequently
(by the last Prop.) more often aroused in us. Wherefore it may more readily happen, that we
should contemplate other things in conjunction with these than in conjunction with something
else, and consequently (II:xviii.) that the images of the said things should be more often
associated with the images of these than with the images of something else. Q.E.D.

Prop. XIII. A mental image is more often vivid, in proportion as it is associated with a greater
number of other images.

Proof.- In proportion as an image is associated with a greater number of other images, so (II:xviii.)
are there more causes whereby it can be aroused. Q.E.D.

Prop. XIV. The mind can bring it about, that all bodily modifications or images of things may
be referred to the idea of God.

Proof.- There is no modification of the body, whereof the mind may not form some clear and
distinct conception (V:iv.); wherefore it can bring it about, that they should all be referred
to the idea of God (I:xv.). Q.E.D.

Prop. XV. He who clearly and distinctly understands himself and his emotions loves God, and
so much the more in proportion as he more understands himself and his emotions.

Proof.- He who clearly and distinctly understands himself and his emotions feels pleasure (III:liii.),
and this pleasure is (by the last Prop.) accompanied by the idea of God; therefore (Def. of
the Emotions:vi.) such an one loves God, and (for the same reason) so much the more in proportion
as he more understands himself and his emotions. Q.E.D.

Prop. XVI. This love towards God must hold the chief place in the mind.

Proof.- For this love is associated with all the modifications of the body (V:xiv.) and is
fostered by them all (V:v.); therefore (V:xi.), it must hold the chief place in the mind. Q.E.D.

Prop. XVII. God is without passions, neither is he affected by any emotion of pleasure or pain.

Proof.- All ideas, in so far as they are referred to God, are true (II:xxxii.), that is (II:Def.iv.)
adequate; and therefore (by the general Def. of the Emotions) God is without passions. Again,
God cannot pass either to a greater or to a lesser perfection (I:xx.Coroll.ii.); therefore
(by Def. of the Emotions:ii., &iii.) he is not affected by any emotion of pleasure or pain.

Corollary. Strictly speaking, God does not love or hate anyone. For God (by the foregoing Prop.)
is not affected by any emotion of pleasure or pain, consequently (Def. of the Emotions:vi.,
&vii.) he does not love or hate anyone.

Prop.XVIII. No one can hate God.

Proof.- The idea of God which is in us is adequate and perfect (II:xlvi., II:xlvii.); wherefore,
in so far as we contemplate God, we are active (III:iii.) ; consequently (III:lix.) there can
be no pain accompanied by the idea of God, in other words (Def. of the Emotions:vii.), no one
can hate God. Q.E.D.

Corollary.- Love towards God cannot be turned into hate.

Note.- It may be objected that, as we understand God as the cause of all things, we by that
very fact regard God as the cause of pain. But I make answer, that, in so far as we understand
the causes of pain, it to that extent (V:iii.) ceases to be a passion, that is, it ceases to
be pain (III:lix.); therefore, in so far as we understand God to be the cause of pain, we to
that extent feel pleasure.

Prop. XIX. He, who loves God, cannot endeavour that God should love him in return.

Proof.- For, if a man should so endeavour, he would desire (V:xvii.Coroll.) that God, whom
he loves, should not be God, and consequently he would desire to feel pain (III:xix.); which
is absurd (III:xxviii.). Therefore, he who loves God, &c. Q.E.D.

Prop. XX. This love towards God cannot be stained by the emotion of envy or jealousy: contrariwise,
it is the more fostered, in proportion as we conceive a greater number of men to be joined
to God by the same bond of love.

Proof.- This love towards God is the highest good which we can seek for under the guidance
of reason (IV:xxviii.), it is common to all men (IV:xxxvi),and we desire that all should rejoice
therein (IV:xxxvii.); therefore (Def. of the Emotions:xxiii), it cannot be stained by the emotion
envy nor by, the emotion of jealousy, (V:xviii. see definition of Jealousy, (III:xxxv. Note);
but, contrariwise, it must needs be the more fostered, in proportion as we conceive a greater
number of men to rejoice therein. Q.E.D.

Note.- We can in the same way, show, that there is no emotion directly
contrary to this love, whereby this love can be destroyed; therefore we may
conclude, that this love towards God is the most constant of all the
emotions, and that, in so far as it is referred to the body, it cannot be
destroyed, unless the body be destroyed also. As to its nature, in so far as
it is referred to the mind only, we shall presently inquire.
    I have now gone through all the remedies against the emotions, or all
that the mind, considered in itself alone, can do against them. Whence it
appears that the mind's power over the emotions consists:-

  I. In the actual knowledge of the emotions (V:iv.Note).

  II. In the fact that it separates the emotions from the thought of an
external cause, which we conceive confusedly (V:ii. and V:iv.Note).

  III. In the fact, that, in respect to time, the emotions referred to
things, which we distinctly understand, surpass those referred to what we
conceive in a confused and fragmentary manner (V:vii.).

  IV. In the number of causes whereby those modifications (Affectiones.
Camerer reads affectus - emotions), are fostered, which have regard to the
common properties of things or to God (V:ix., V:xi.).

  V. Lastly, in the order wherein the mind can arrange and associate, one
with another, its own emotions (V:x.Note and V:xii., V:xiii., V:xiv.).

But, in order that this power of the mind over the emotions may be better understood, it should
be specially observed that the emotions are called by us strong, when we compare the emotion
of one man with the emotion of another, and see that one man is more troubled than another
by the same emotion; or when we are comparing the various emotions of the same man one with
another, and find that he is more affected or stirred by one emotion than by another. For the
strength of every emotion is defined by a comparison of our own power with the power of an
external cause. Now the power of the mind is defined by knowledge only, and its infirmity or
passion is defined by the privation of knowledge only: it therefore follows, that that mind
is most passive, whose greatest part is made up of inadequate ideas, so that it may be characterized
more readily by its passive states than by its activities: on the other hand, that mind is
most active, whose greatest part is made up of adequate ideas, so that, although it may contain
as many inadequate ideas as the former mind, it may yet be more easily characterized by ideas
attributable to human virtue, than by ideas which tell of human infirmity. Again, it must be
observed, that spiritual unhealthiness; and misfortunes can generally be traced to excessive
love for something which is subject to many variations, and which we can never become masters
of. For no one is solicitous or anxious about anything, unless he loves it; neither do wrongs,
suspicions, enmities, &c. arise, except in regard to things whereof no one can be really master.

We may thus readily conceive the power which clear and distinct knowledge, and especially that
third kind of knowledge (II:xlvii.Note), founded on the actual knowledge of God, possesses
over the emotions: if it does not absolutely destroy them, in so far as they are passions (V:iii.
and V:iv.Note); at any rate, it causes them to occupy a very small part of the mind (V:xiv.).
Further, it begets a love towards a thing immutable and eternal (V:xv.), whereof we may really
enter into possession (II:xlv.); neither can it be defiled with those faults which are inherent
in ordinary love; but it may grow from strength to strength, and may engross the greater part
of the mind, and deeply penetrate it. And now I have finished with all that concerns this present
life: for, as I said in the beginning of this note, I have briefly described all the remedies
against the emotions. And this everyone may readily have seen for himself, if he has attended
to what is advanced in the present note, and also to the definitions of the mind and its emotions,
and, lastly, to Propositions III:i. and III:iii. It is now, therefore, time to pass on to those
matters, which appertain to the duration of the mind, without relation to the body.

Prop. XXI. The mind can only imagine anything, or remember what is past, while the body endures.

Proof.- The mind does not express the actual existence of its body, nor does it imagine the
modifications of the body as actual, except while the body endures (II:viii.Coroll.); and,
consequently (II:xxvi.), it does not imagine any body as actually existing, except while its
own body endures. Thus it cannot imagine anything (for definition of Imagination, see II:xvii.Note),
or remember things past, except while the body endures (see definition of Memory, II:xviii.Note).
Q.E.D.

Prop. XXII. Nevertheless in God there is necessarily an idea, which expresses the essence of
this or that human body under the form of eternity.

Proof.- God is the cause, not only of the existence of this or that human body, but also of
its essence (I:xxv.). This essence, therefore, must necessarily be conceived through the very
essence of God (I:Ax.iv.), and be thus conceived by a certain eternal necessity (I:xvi.); and
this conception. must necessarily exist in God (II:iii.). Q.E.D.

Prop.

Proof.- There is necessarily in God a concept or idea, which expresses the essence of the human
body (last Prop.), which, therefore, is necessarily something appertaining to the essence of
the human mind (II:xiii.). But we have not assigned to the human mind any, duration, definable
by time, except in so far as it expresses the actual existence of the body, which is explained
through duration, and may be defined by time - that is (II:viii.Coroll.), we do not assign
to it duration, except while the body endures. Yet, as there is something, notwithstanding,
which is conceived by a certain eternal necessity through the very essence of God (last Prop.);
this something, which appertains to the essence of the mind, will necessarily be eternal. Q.E.D.

Note.- This idea, which expresses the essence of the body under the form of eternity, is, as
we have said, a certain mode of thinking, which belongs to the essence of the mind, and is
necessarily eternal. Yet it is not possible that we should remember that we existed before
our body, for our body can bear no trace of such existence, neither can eternity be defined
in terms of time, or have any relation to time. But, notwithstanding, we feel and know that
we are eternal. For the mind feels those things that it conceives by understanding, no less
than those things that it remembers. For the eyes of the mind, whereby it sees and observes
things, are none other than proofs. Thus our mind can only be said to endure, and its existence
can only be defined by a fixed time, in so far as it involves the actual existence of the body.
Thus far only has it the power of determining the existence of things by time, and conceiving
them under the category of duration.

Prop. XXIV. The more we understand particular things, the more do we understand God.

Proof.- This is evident from I:xxv.Coroll.

Prop. XXV. The highest endeavour of the mind, and the highest virtue is to understand things
by the third kind of knowledge. Q.E.D.

Prop. XXVI. In proportion as the mind is more capable of understanding things by the third
kind of knowledge, it desires more to understand things by that kind.

Proof.- This is evident. For, in so far as we conceive the mind to be capable of conceiving
things by this kind of knowledge, we, to that extent, conceive it as determined thus to conceive
things; and consequently (Def. of the Emotions:i.), the mind desires so to do, in proportion
as it is more capable thereof. Q.E.D.

Prop. XXVII. From this third kind of knowledge arises the highest possible mental acquiescence.

Proof.- The highest virtue of the mind is to know God (IV:xxviii.), or to understand things
by the third kind of knowledge (V:xxv.), and this virtue is greater in proportion as the mind
knows things more by the said kind of knowledge (V:xxiv.): consequently, he who knows things
by this kind of knowledge passes to the summit of human perfection, and is therefore (Def.
of the Emotions:ii.) affected by the highest pleasure, such pleasure being accompanied by the
idea of himself and his own virtue; thus (Def. of the Emotions:xxv.), from this kind of knowledge
arises the highest possible acquiescence. Q.E.D.

Prop. XXVIII. The endeavour or desire to know things by the third kind of knowledge cannot
arise from the first, but from the second kind of knowledge.

Proof.- This proposition is self-evident. For whatsoever we understand clearly and distinct
we understand either through itself, or through that which is conceived through itself; that
is, ideas which are clear and distinct in us, or which are referred to the third kind of knowledge
(II:xl.Note.ii.) cannot follow from ideas that are fragmentary, and confused, and are referred
to knowledge of the first kind, but must follow from adequate ideas, or ideas of the second
and third kind of knowledge; therefore (Def. of the Emotions:i.), the desire of knowing things
by the third kind of knowledge cannot arise from the first, but from the second kind. Q.E.D.

Prop. XXIX. Whatsoever the mind understands under the form of eternity, it does not understand
by virtue of conceiving the present actual existence of the body, but by virtue of conceiving
the essence of the body under the form of eternity.

Proof.- In so far as the mind conceives the present existence of its body, it to that extent
conceives duration which can be determined by time, and to that extent only, has it the power
of conceiving things in relation to time (V:xxi., II:xxvi.). But eternity cannot be explained
in terms of duration (I:Def.viii. and explanation). Therefore to this extent the mind has not
the power of conceiving things under the form of eternity, but it possesses such power, because
it is of the nature of reason to conceive things under the form of eternity (II:xliv.Coroll.ii.),
and also because it is of the nature of the mind to conceive the essence of the body under
the form of eternity (V:xxiii.), for besides these two there is nothing which belongs to the
essence of mind (II:xiii.). Therefore this power of conceiving things under the form of eternity
only belongs to the mind in virtue of the mind's conceiving the essence of the body under the
form of eternity. Q.E.D.

Note.- Things are conceived by us as actual in two ways; either as existing in relation to
a given time and place, or as contained in God and following from the necessity of the divine
nature.

Prop. XXX. Our mind, in so far as it knows itself and the body under the form of eternity,
has to that extent necessarily a knowledge of God, and knows that it is in God, and is conceived
through God.

Proof.- Eternity is the very essence of God, in so far as this involves necessary existence
(I:Def.viii.). Therefore to conceive things under the form of eternity, is to conceive things
in so far as they are conceived through thp essence of God as real entities, or in so far as
they involve existence through the essence of God; wherefore our mind, in so far as it conceives
itself and the body under the form of eternity, has to that extent necessarily a knowledge
of God, and knows, &c. Q.E.D.

Prop. XXXI. The third kind of knowledge depends on the mind, as its formal cause, in so far
as the mind itself is eternal.

