It may be presumed that there once existed a foreign but compact government in Abyssinia, which,
becoming great and powerful, sent out armies on all sides of it, especially to the south, south-east,
and west, slave-hunting and devastating wherever they went, and in process of time becoming
too great for one ruler to control. Junior members of the royal family then, pushing their
fortunes, dismembered themselves from the parent stock, created separate governments, and,
for reasons which cannot be traced, changed their names. In this manner we may suppose that
the Gallas separated from the Abyssinians, and located themselves to the south of their native
land.

Other Abyssinians, or possibly Gallas--it matters not which they were or what we call them--likewise
detaching themselves, fought in the Somali country, subjugated that land, were defeated to
a certain extent by the Arabs from the opposite continent, and tried their hands south as far
as the Jub river, where they also left many of their numbers behind. Again they attacked Omwita
(the present Mombas), were repulsed, were lost sight of in the interior of the continent, and,
crossing the Nile close to its source, discovered the rich pasture-lands of Unyoro, and founded
the great kingdom of Kittara, where they lost their religion, forgot their language, extracted
their lower incisors like the natives, changed their national name to Wahuma, and no longer
remembered the names of Hubshi or Galla--though even the present reigning kings retain a singular
traditional account of their having once been half white and half black, with hair on the white
side straight, and on the black side frizzly. It was a curious indication of the prevailing
idea still entertained by them of their foreign extraction, that it was surmised in Unyoro
that the approach of us white men into their country from both sides at once, augured an intention
on our part to take back the country from them. Believing, as they do, that Africa formerly
belonged to Europeans, from whom it was taken by negroes with whom they had allied themselves,
the Wahuma make themselves a small residue of the original European stock driven from the land--an
idea which seems natural enough when we consider that the Wahuma are, in numbers, quite insignificant
compared with the natives.

Again, the princes of Unyoro are called Wawitu, and point to the north when asked where their
country Uwitu is situated, doubtfully saying, when questioned about its distance, "How can
we tell circumstances which took place in our forefathers' times? we only think it is somewhere
near your country." Although, however, this very interesting people, the Wahuma, delight in
supposing themselves to be of European origin, they are forced to confess, on closer examination,
that although they came in the first instance from the doubtful north, they came latterly from
the east, as part of a powerful Wahuma tribe, beyond Kidi, who excel in arms, and are so fierce
no Kidi people, terrible in war as these too are described to be, can stand against them. This
points, if our maps are true, to the Gallas--for all pastorals in these people's minds are
Wahuma; and if we could only reconcile ourselves to the belief that the Wawitu derived their
name from Omwita, the last place they attacked on the east coast of Africa, then all would
be clear: for it must be noticed the Wakama, or kings, when asked to what race they owe their
origin, invariably reply, in the first place, from princes--giving, for instance, the titles
Wawitu in Unyoro, and Wahinda in Karague--which is most likely caused by their never having
been asked such a close question before, whilst the idiom of the language generally induces
them to call themselves after the name applied to their country.

So much for ethnological conjecture. Let us now deal with the Wahuma since they crossed the
Nile and founded the kingdom of Kittara, a large tract of land bounded by the Victoria N'yanza
and Kitangule Kagera or River on the south, the Nile on the east, the Little Luta-Nzige Lake
[15] on the north, and the kingdoms of Utubi and Nkole on the west.

The general name Kittara is gradually becoming extinct, and is seldom applied to any but the
western portions; whilst the north-eastern, in which the capital is situated, is called Unyoro,
and the other, Uddu apart from Uganda, as we shall presently see.

Nobody has been able to inform us how many generations old the Wahuma government of Unyoro
is. The last three kings are Chiawambi, N'yawongo, and the present king Kamrasi. In very early
times dissensions amongst the royal family, probably contending for the crown, such as we presume
must have occurred in Abyssinia, separated the parent stock, and drove the weaker to find refuge
in Nkole, where a second and independent government of Wahuma was established. Since then,
twenty generations ago, it is said the Wahuma government of Karague was established in the
same manner. The conspirator Rohinda fled from Kittara to Karague with a large party of Wahuma;
sought the protection of Nono, who, a Myambo, was king over the Wanyambo of that country; ingratiated
himself and his followers with the Wanyambo; and, finally, designing a crown for himself, gave
a feast, treacherously killed King Nono in his cups, and set himself on the throne, the first
mkama or king who ruled in Karague. Rohinda was succeeded by Ntare, then Rohinda II., then
Ntare II., which order only changed with the eleventh reign, when Rusatira ascended the throne,
and was succeeded by Mehinga, then Kalimera, then Ntare VII., then Rohinda VI., then Dagara,
and now Rumanika. During this time the Wahuma were well south of the equator, and still destined
to spread. Brothers again contended for the crown of their father, and the weaker took refuge
in Uzinza, where the fourth Wahuma government was created, and so remained under one king until
the last generation, when King Ruma died, and his two sons, Rohinda, the eldest, and Suwarora,
contended for the crown, but divided the country between them, Rohinda taking the eastern half,
and Suwarora the western, at the instigation of the late King Dagara of Karague.

This is the most southerly kingdom of the Wahuma, though not the farthest spread of its people,
for we find the Watusi, who are emigrants from Karague of the same stock, overlooking the Tanganyika
Lake from the hills of Uhha, and tending their cattle all over Unyamuezi under the protection
of the native negro chiefs; and we also hear that the Wapoka of Fipa, south of the Rukwa Lake
are the same. How or when their name became changed from Wahuma to Watusi no one is able to
explain; but, again deducing the past from the present, we cannot help suspecting that, in
the same way as this change has taken place, the name Galla may have been changed from Hubshi,
and Wahuma from Gallas. But though in these southern regions the name of the clan has been
changed, the princes still retain the title of Wahinda as in Karague, instead of Wawitu as
in Unyoro, and are considered of such noble breed that many of the pure negro chiefs delight
in saying, I am a Mhinda, or prince, to the confusion of travellers, which confusion is increased
by the Wahuma habits of conforming to the regulations of the different countries they adopt.
For instance, the Wahuma of Uganda and Karague, though so close to Unyoro, do not extract their
lower incisors; and though the Wanyoro only use the spear in war, the Wahuma in Karague are
the most expert archers in Africa. We are thus left only the one very distinguishing mark,
the physical appearance of this remarkable race, partaking even more of the phlegmatic nature
of the Shemitic father than the nervous boisterous temperament of the Hamitic mother, as a
certain clue to their Shem-Hamitic origin.

It remains to speak of the separation of Uddu from Unyoro, the present kingdom of Uganda--which,
to say the least of it, is extremely interesting, inasmuch as the government there is as different
from the other surrounding countries as those of Europe are compared to Asia.

In the earliest times the Wahuma of Unyoro regarded all their lands bordering on the Victoria
Lake as their garden, owing to its exceeding fertility, and imposed the epithet of Wiru, or
slaves, upon its people, because they had to supply the imperial government with food and clothing.
Coffee was conveyed to the capital by the Wiru, also mbugu (bark-cloaks), from an inexhaustible
fig-tree; in short, the lands of the Wiru were famous for their rich productions.

Now Wiru in the northern dialect changes to Waddu in the southern; hence Uddu, the land of
the slaves, which remained in one connected line from the Nile to the Kitangule Kagera until
eight generations back, when, according to tradition, a sportsman from Unyoro, by name Uganda,
came with a pack of dogs, a woman, a spear, and a shield, hunting on the left bank of Katonga
valley, not far from the lake. He was but a poor man, though so successful in hunting that
vast numbers of the Wiru flocked to him for flesh, and became so fond of him as to invite him
to be their king, saying, "Of what avail to us is our present king, living so far away that
when we sent him a cow as a tributary offering, that cow on the journey gave a calf, and the
calf became a cow and gave another calf, and so on, and yet the present has not reached its
destination?"

At first Uganda hesitated, on the plea that they had a king already, but on being farther pressed
consented; when the people hearing his name said, "Well, let it be so; and for the future let
this country between the Nile and Katonga be called Uganda, and let your name be Kimera, the
first king of Uganda."

The same night Kimera stood upon a stone with a spear in his hand, and a woman and dog sitting
by his side; and to this day people assert that his footprints and the mark left by his spear-end,
as well as the seats of the woman and dog, are visible. The report of these circumstances soon
reached the great king of Unyoro, who, in his magnificence, merely said, "The poor creature
must be starving; allow him to feed there if he likes." The kings who have succeeded Kimera
are: 1. Mahanda; 2. Katereza; 3. Chabago; 4. Simakokiro; 5. Kamanya; 6. Sunna; 7. Mtesa, not
yet crowned.

These kings have all carried on the same system of government as that commenced by Kimera,
and proved themselves a perfect terror to Unyoro, as we shall see in the sequel. Kimera, suddenly
risen to eminence, grew proud and headstrong--formed a strong clan around him, whom he appointed
to be his Wakunga, or officers--rewarded well, punished severely, and soon became magnificent.
Nothing short of the grandest palace, a throne to sit upon, the largest harem, the smartest
officers, the best dressed people, even a menagerie for pleasure--in fact, only the best of
everything--would content him. Fleets of boats, not canoes, were built for war, and armies
formed, that the glory of the king might never decrease. In short, the system of government,
according to barbarous ideas was perfect. Highways were cut from one extremity of the country
to the other, and all rivers bridged. No house could be built without its necessary appendages
for cleanliness; no person, however poor, could expose his person; and to disobey these laws
was death.

After the death of Kimera, the prosperity of Uganda never decreased, but rather improved. The
clan of officers formed by him were as proud of their emancipation from slavery, as the king
they had created was of his dominion over them. They buried Kimera with state honours, giving
charge of the body to the late king's most favourite consort, whose duty it was to dry the
corpse by placing it on a board resting on the mouth of an earthen open pot heated by fire
from below. When this drying process was completed, at the expiration of three months, the
lower jaw was cut out and neatly worked over with beads; the umbilical cord, which had been
preserved from birth, was also worked with beads. These were kept apart, but the body was consigned
to a tomb, and guarded ever after by this officer and a certain number of the king's next most
favourite women, all of whom planted gardens for their maintenance, and were restricted from
seeing the succeeding king.

By his large establishment of wives, Kimera left a number of princes or Warangira, and as many
princesses. From the Warangira the Wakunga now chose as their king the one whom they thought
best suited for the government of the country--not of too high rank by the mother's side, lest
their selection in his pride should kill them all, but one of low birth. The rest were placed
with wives in a suite of huts, under charge of a keeper, to prevent any chance of intrigues
and dissensions. They were to enjoy life until the prince-elect should arrive at the age of
discretion and be crowned, when all but two of the princes would be burnt to death, the two
being reserved in case of accident as long as the king wanted brother companions, when one
would be banished to Unyoro, and the other pensioned with suitable possessions in Uganda. The
mother of the king by this measure became queen-dowager, or N'yamasore. She halved with her
son all the wives of the deceased king not stationed at his grave, taking second choice; kept
up a palace only little inferior to her son's with large estates, guided the prince-elect in
the government of the country, and remained until the end of his minority the virtual ruler
of the land; at any rate, no radical political changes could take place without her sanction.
The princesses became the wives of the king; no one else could marry them.

Both mother and son had their Ktikiros or commander-in-chief, also titled Kamraviona, as well
as other officers of high rank. Amongst them in due order of gradation are the Ilmas, a woman
who had the good fortune to have cut the umbilical cord at the king's birth; the Sawaganzi,
queen's sister and king's barber; Kaggao, Polino, Sakibobo, Kitunzi, and others, governors
of provinces; Jumab, admiral of the fleet; Kasugu, guardian of the king's sister; Mkuenda,
factor; Kunsa and Usungu, first and second class executioners; Mgemma, commissioner in charge
of tombs; Seruti, brewer; Mfumbiro, cook; numerous pages to run messages and look after the
women, and minor Wakungu in hundreds. One Mkungu is always over the palace, in command of the
Wanagalali, or guards which are changed monthly; another is ever in attendance as seizer of
refractory persons. There are also in the palace almost constantly the Wanangalavi, or drummers;
Nsase, pea-gourd rattlers; Milele, flute-players; Mukonderi, clarionet-players; also players
on wooden harmonicons and lap-harps, to which the players sing accompaniments; and, lastly,
men who whistle on their fingers--for music is half the amusement of these courts. Everybody
in Uganda is expected to keep spears, shields and dogs, the Uganda arms and cognisance; whilst
the Wakungu are entitled to drums. There is also a Neptune Mgussa, or spirit, who lives in
the depths of the N'yanza, communicates through the medium of his temporal Mkungu, and guides
to a certain extent the naval destiny of the king.

It is the duty of all officers, generally speaking, to attend at court as constantly as possible;
should they fail, they forfeit their lands, wives, and all belongings. These will be seized
and given to others more worthy of them; as it is presumed that either insolence or disaffection
can be the only motive which would induce any person to absent himself for any length of time
from the pleasure of seeing his sovereign. Tidiness in dress is imperatively necessary, and
for any neglect of this rule the head may be the forfeit. The punishment for such offences,
however, may be commuted by fines of cattle, goats, fowls, or brass wire. All acts of the king
are counted benefits, for which he must be thanked; and so every deed done to his subjects
is a gift received by them, though it should assume the shape of flogging or fine; for are
not these, which make better men of them, as necessary as anything? The thanks are rendered
by gravelling on the ground, floundering about and whining after the manner of happy dogs,
after which they rise up suddenly, take up sticks--spears are not allowed to be carried in
court--make as if charging the king, jabbering as fast as tongues can rattle, and so they swear
fidelity for all their lives.

This is the greater salutation; the lesser one is performed kneeling in an attitude of prayer,
continually throwing open the hands, and repeating sundry words. Among them the word "n'yanzig"
is the most frequent and conspicuous; and hence these gesticulations receive the general designation
n'yanzig--a term which will be frequently met with, and which I have found it necessary to
use like an English verb. In consequence of these salutations, there is more ceremony in court
than business, though the king, ever having an eye to his treasury, continually finds some
trifling fault, condemns the head of the culprit, takes his liquidation-present, if he has
anything to pay, and thus keeps up his revenue.

No one dare stand before the king whilst he is either standing still or sitting, but must approach
him with downcast eyes and bended knees, and kneel or sit when arrived. To touch the king's
throne or clothes, even by accident, or to look upon his women is certain death. When sitting
in court holding a levee, the king invariably has in attendance several women, Wabandwa, evil-eye
averters or sorcerers. They talk in feigned voices raised to a shrillness almost amounting
to a scream. They wear dried lizards on their heads, small goat-skin aprons trimmed with little
bells, diminutive shields and spears set off with cock-hackles--their functions in attendance
being to administer cups of marwa (plantain wine). To complete the picture of the court, one
must imagine a crowd of pages to run royal messages; they dare not walk for such deficiency
in zeal to their master might cost their life. A further feature of the court consists in the
national symbols already referred to--a dog, two spears, and shield.

With the company squatting in large half-circle or three sides of a square many deep before
him, in the hollow of which are drummers and other musicians, the king, sitting on his throne
in high dignity, issues his orders for the day much to the following effect:--"Cattle, women,
and children are short in Uganda; an army must be formed of one to two thousand strong, to
plunder Unyoro. The Wasoga have been insulting his subjects, and must be reduced to subjection:
for this emergency another army must be formed, of equal strength, to act by land in conjunction
with the fleet. The Wahaiya have paid no tribute to his greatness lately and must be taxed."
For all these matters the commander-in-chief tells off the divisional officers, who are approved
by the king, and the matter is ended in court. The divisional officers then find subordinate
officers, who find men, and the army proceeds with its march. Should any fail with their mission,
reinforcements are sent, and the runaways, called women, are drilled with a red-hot iron until
they are men no longer, and die for their cowardice., All heroism, however, ensures promotion.
The king receives his army of officers with great ceremony, listens to their exploits, and
gives as rewards, women, cattle, and command over men--the greatest elements of wealth in Uganda--with
a liberal hand.

As to the minor business transacted in court, culprits are brought in bound by officers, and
reported. At once the sentence is given, perhaps awarding the most torturous, lingering death--probably
without trial or investigation, and, for all the king knows, at the instigation of some one
influenced by wicked spite. If the accused endeavour to plead his defence, his voice is at
once drowned, and the miserable victim dragged off in the roughest manner possible by those
officers who love their king, and delight in promptly carrying out his orders. Young virgins,
the daughters of Wakungu, stark naked, and smeared with grease, but holding, for decency's
sake, a small square of mbugu at the upper corners in both hands before them, are presented
by their fathers in propitiation for some offence, and to fill the harem. Seizing-officers
receive orders to hunt down Wakungu who have committed some indiscretions, and to confiscate
their lands, wives, children, and property. An officer observed to salute informally is ordered
for execution, when everybody near him rises in an instant, the drums beat, drowning his cries,
and the victim of carelessness is dragged off, bound by cords, by a dozen men at once. Another
man, perhaps, exposes an inch of naked leg whilst squatting, or has his mbugu tied contrary
to regulations, and is condemned to the same fate.

Fines of cows, goats, and fowls are brought in and presented; they are smoothed down by the
offender's hands, and then applied to his face, to show there is no evil spirit lurking in
the gift; then thanks are proferred for the leniency of the king in letting the presenter off
so cheaply, and the pardoned man retires, full of smiles, to the ranks of the squatters. Thousands
of cattle, and strings of women and children, sometimes the result of a victorious plundering
hunt, or else the accumulated seizures from refractory Wakungu, are brought in; for there is
no more common or acceptable offering to appease the king's wrath towards any refractory or
blundering officer than a present of a few young beauties, who may perhaps be afterwards given
as the reward of good service to other officers.

Stick-charms, being pieces of wood of all shapes, supposed to have supernatural virtues, and
coloured earths, endowed with similar qualities, are produced by the royal magicians. The master
of the hunt exposes his spoils--such as antelopes, cats, porcupines, curious rats, etc., all
caught in nets, and placed in baskets--zebra, lion, and buffalo skins being added. The fishermen
bring their spoils; also the gardeners. The cutlers show knives and forks made of iron inlaid
with brass and copper; the furriers, most beautifully-sewn patchwork of antelopes' skins; the
habit-maker, sheets of mbugu barkcloth; the blacksmith, spears; the maker of shields, his productions;--and
so forth; but nothing is ever given without rubbing it down, then rubbing the face, and going
through a long form of salutation for the gracious favour the king has shown in accepting it.

When tired of business, the king rises, spear in hand, and, leading his dog, walked off without
word or comment leaving his company, like dogs, to take care of themselves.

Strict as the discipline of the exterior court is, that of the interior is not less severe.
The pages all wear turbans of cord made from aloe fibres. Should a wife commit any trifling
indiscretion, either by word or deed, she is condemned to execution on the spot, bound by the
pages and dragged out. Notwithstanding the stringent laws for the preservation of decorum by
all male attendants, stark-naked full-grown women are the valets.

On the first appearance of the new moon every month, the king shuts himself up, contemplating
and arranging his magic horns--the horns of wild animals stuffed with charm-powder--for two
or three days. These may be counted his Sundays or church festivals, which he dedicates to
devotion. On other days he takes his women, some hundreds, to bathe or sport in ponds; or,
when tired of that, takes long walks, his women running after him, when all the musicians fall
in, take precedence of the party, followed by the Wakungu and pages, with the king in the centre
of the procession, separating the male company from the fair sex. On these excursions no common
man dare look upon the royal procession. Should anybody by chance happen to be seen, he is
at once hunted down by the pages, robbed of everything he possessed, and may count himself
very lucky if nothing worse happens. Pilgrimages are not uncommon, and sometimes the king spends
a fortnight yachting; but whatever he does, or wherever he goes, the same ceremonies prevail--his
musicians, Wakungu, pages, and the wives take part in all.

But the greatest of all ceremonies takes place at the time of the coronation. The prince-elect
then first seeks favour from the kings of all the surrounding countries, demanding in his might
and power one of each of their daughters in marriage, or else recognition in some other way,
when the Ilmas makes a pilgrimage to the deceased king's tomb, to observe, by the growth an
other signs of certain trees, and plants, what destiny awaits the king. According to the prognostics,
they report that he will either have to live a life of peace, or after coronation take the
field at the head of an army to fight either east, west, or both ways, when usually the first
march is on Kittara, and the second on Usoga. The Mgussa's voice is also heard, but in what
manner I do not know, as all communication on state matters is forbidden in Uganda. These preliminaries
being arranged, the actual coronation takes place, when the king ceases to hold any farther
communion with his mother. The brothers are burnt to death, and the king, we shall suppose,
takes the field at the head of his army.

It is as the result of these expeditions that one-half Usogo and the remaining half of Uddu
have been annexed to Uganda.

Chapter X. Karague and Uganda

Escape from Protectors--Cross the Kitangule, the First Affluent of the Nile--Enter Uddu--Uganda--A
Rich Country--Driving away the Devil--A Conflict in the Camp--A Pretending Prince--Three Pages
with a Diplomatic Message from the King of Uganda--Crime in Uganda.

Crossing back over the Weranhanje spur, I put up with the Arabs at Kufro. Here, for the first
time in this part of the world, I found good English peas growing. Next day (11th), crossing
over a succession of forks, supporters to the main spur, we encamped at Luandalo. Here we were
overtaken by Rozaro, who had remained behind, as I now found, to collect a large number of
Wanyambo, whom he called his children, to share with him the gratuitous living these creatures
always look out for on a march of this nature.

After working round the end of the great spur whilst following down the crest of a fork, we
found Karague separated by a deep valley from the hilly country of Uhaiya, famous for its ivory
and coffee productions. On entering the rich plantain gardens of Kisaho, I was informed we
must halt there a day for Maula to join us, as he had been detained by Rumanika, who, wishing
to give him a present, had summoned Rozaro's sister to his palace for that purpose. She was
married to another, and had two children by him, but that did not signify, as it was found
in time her husband had committed a fault, on account of which it was thought necessary to
confiscate all his property.

At this place all the people were in a constant state of inebriety, drinking pombe all day
and all night. I shot a montana antelope, and sent its head and skin back to Grant, accompanied
with my daily report to Rumanika.

Maula having joined me, we marched down to near the end of the fork overlooking the plain of
Kitangule--the Waganada drums beating, and whistles playing all the way we went along.

We next descended from the Mountains of the Moon, and spanned a long alluvial plain to the
settlement of the so-long-heard-of Kitangule, where Rumanika keeps his thousands and thousands
of cows. In former days the dense green forests peculiar to the tropics, which grow in swampy
places about this plain, were said to have been stocked by vast herds of elephants; but, since
the ivory trade had increased, these animals had all been driven off to the hills of Kisiwa
and Uhaiya, or into Uddu beyond the river, and all the way down to the N'yanza.

To-day we reached the Kitangule Kagera, or river, which, as I ascertained in the year 1858,
falls into the Victoria N'yanza on the west side. Most unfortunately, as we led off to cross
it, rain began to pour, so that everybody and everything was thrown into confusion. I could
not get a sketch of it, though Grant was more fortunate afterwards; neither could I measure
or fathom it; and it was only after a long contest with the superstitious boatmen that they
allowed me to cross in their canoe with my shoes on, as they thought the vessel would either
upset, or else the river would dry up, in consequence of their Neptune taking offence at me.
Once over, I looked down on the noble stream with considerable pride. About eight yards broad,
it was sunk down a considerable depth below the surface of the land, like a huge canal, and
is so deep, it could not be poled by the canoemen; while it runs at a velocity of from three
to four knots an hour.

I say I viewed it with pride, because I had formed my judgment of its being fed from high-seated
springs in the Mountains of the Moon solely on scientific geographical reasonings; and, from
the bulk of the stream, I also believed those mountains must obtain an altitude of 8000 feet
[16] or more, just as we find they do in Ruanda.

I came, at the same time, to the conclusion that all our previous information concerning the
hydrography of these regions, as well as the Mountains of the Moon, originated with the ancient
Hindus, who told it to the priests of the Nile; and that all those busy Egyptian geographers,
who disseminated their knowledge with a view to be famous for their long-sightedness, in solving
the deep-seated mystery with enshrouded the source of their holy river, were so many hypothetical
humbugs. Reasoning thus, the Hindu traders alone, in those days, I believed, had a firm basis
to stand upon, from their intercourse with the Abyssinians--through whom they must have heard
of the country of Amara, which they applied to the N'yanza--and with the Wanyamuezi or men
of the Moon, from whom they heard of the Tanganyika and Karague mountains. I was all the more
impressed with this belief, by knowing that the two church missionaries, Rebmann and Erhardt,
without the smallest knowledge of the Hindus' map, constructed a map of their own, deduced
from the Zanzibar traders, something on the same scale, by blending the Victoria N'yanza, Tanganyida,
and N'yazza into one; whilst to their triuned lake they gave the name Moon, because the men
of the Moon happened to live in front of the central lake. And later still, Mr Leon, another
missionary, heard of the N'yanza and the country Amara, near which he heard the Nile made its
escape.

Going on with the march we next came to Ndongo, a perfect garden of plantains. The whole country
was rich--most surprisingly so. The same streaky argillaceous sandstones prevailed as in Karague.
There was nothing, in fact, that would not have grown here, if it liked moisture and a temperate
heat. It was a perfect paradise for negroes: as fast as they sowed they were sure of a crop
without much trouble; though, I must say, they kept their huts and their gardens in excellent
order.

As Maula would stop here, I had to halt also. The whole country along the banks of the river,
and near some impenetrable forests, was alive with antelopes, principally hartebeests, but
I would not fire at them until it was time to return, as the villagers led me to expect buffaloes.
The consequence was, as no buffaloes were to be found, I got no sport, though I wounded a hartebeest,
and followed him almost into camp, when I gave up the chase to some negroes, and amused myself
by writing to Rumanika, to say if Grant did not reach me by a certain date, I would try to
navigate the N'yanza, and return to him in boats up the Kitangule river.

We crossed over a low spur of hill extending from the mountainous kingdom of Nkole, on our
left, towards the N'yanza. Here I was shown by Nasib a village called Ngandu, which was the
farthest trading depot of the Zanzibar ivory-merchants. It was established by Musa Mzuri, by
the permission of Rumanika; for, as I shall have presently to mention, Sunna, after annexing
this part of Uddu to Uganda, gave Rumanika certain bands of territory in it as a means of security
against the possibility of its being wrested out of his hands again by the future kings of
Unyoro. Following on Musa's wake, many Arabs also came here to trade; but they were so oppressive
to the Waganda that they were recalled by Rumanika, and obliged to locate themselves at Kufro.
To the right, at the end of the spur, stretching as far as the eye could reach towards the
N'yanza, was a rich, well-wooded, swampy plain, containing large open patches of water, which
not many years since, I was assured, were navigable for miles, but now, like the Urigi lake,
were gradually drying up. Indeed, it appeared to me as if the N'yanza must have once washed
the foot of these hills, but had since shrunk away from its original margin.

On arrival at Ngambezi, I was immensely struck with the neatness and good arrangement of the
place, as well as its excessive beauty and richness. No part of Bengal or Zanzibar could excel
it in either respect; and my men, with one voice, exclaimed, "Ah, what people these Waganda
are!" and passed other remarks, which may be abridged as follows:--"They build their huts and
keep their gardens just as well as we do at Unguja, with screens and enclosures for privacy,
a clearance in front of their establishments, and a baraza or reception-hut facing the buildings.
Then, too, what a beautiful prospect it has!--rich marshy plains studded with mounds, on each
of which grow the umbrella cactus, or some other evergreen tree; and beyond, again, another
hill-spur such as the one we have crossed over." One of king Mtesa's uncles, who had not been
burnt to death by the order of the late king Sunna on his ascension to the throne, was the
proprietor of this place, but unfortunately he was from home. However, his substitute gave
me his baraza to live in, and brought many presents of goats, fowls, sweet potatoes, yams,
plantains, sugarcane, and Indian corn, and apologised in the end for deficiency in hospitality.
I, of course, gave him beads in return.

Continuing over the same kind of ground in the next succeeding spurs of the streaky red-clay
sandstone hills, we put up at the residence of Isamgevi, a Mkungu or district officer of Rumanika's.
His residence was as well kept as Mtesa's uncle's; but instead of a baraza fronting his house,
he had a small enclosure, with three small huts in it, kept apart for devotional purposes,
or to propitiate the evil spirits--in short, according to the notions of the place, a church.
This officer gave me a cow and some plantains, and I in return gave him a wire and some beads.
Many mendicant women, called by some Wichwezi, by others Mabandwa, all wearing the most fantastic
dresses of mbugu, covered with beads, shells, and sticks, danced before us, singing a comic
song, the chorus of which was a long shrill rolling Coo-roo-coo-roo, coo-roo-coo-roo, delivered
as they came to a standstill. Their true functions were just as obscure as the religion of
the negroes generally; some called them devil-drivers, other evil-eye averters; but, whatever
it was for, they imposed a tax on the people, whose minds being governed by a necessity for
making some self-sacrifice to propitiate something, they could not tell what, for their welfare
in the world, they always gave them a trifle in the same way as the East Indians do their fakirs.

After crossing another low swampy flat, we reached a much larger group, or rather ramification,
of hill-spurs pointing to the N'yanza, called Kisuere, and commanded by M'yombo, Rumanika's
frontier officer. Immediately behind this, to the northward, commenced the kingdom of Unyoro;
and here it was, they said, Baraka would branch off my line on his way to Kamrasi. Maula's
home was one march distant from this, so the scoundrel now left me to enjoy himself there,
giving as his pretext for doing so, that Mtesa required him, as soon as I arrived here, to
send on a messenger that order might be taken for my proper protection on the line of march;
for the Waganda were a turbulent set of people, who could only be kept in order by the executioner;
and doubtless many, as was customary on such occasions, would be beheaded, as soon as Mtesa
heard of my coming, to put the rest in a fright. I knew this was all humbug, of course, and
I told him so; but it was of no use, and I was compelled to halt.

On the 23d another officer, named Maribu, came to me and said, Mtesa, having heard that Grant
was left sick behind at Karague, had given him orders to go there and fetch him, whether sick
or well, for Mtesa was most anxious to see white men. Hearing this I at once wrote to Grant,
begging him to come on if he could do so, and to bring with him all the best of my property,
or as much as he could of it, as I now saw there was more cunning humbug than honesty in what
Rumanika had told me about the impossibility of our going north from Uganda, as well as in
his saying sick men could not go into Uganda, and donkeys without trousers would not be admitted
there, because they were considered indecent. If he was not well enough to move, I advised
him to wait there until I reached Mtesa's, when I would either go up the lake and Kitangule
to fetch him away, or would make the king send boats for him, which I more expressly wished,
as it would tend to give us a much better knowledge of the lake.

Maula now came again, after receiving repeated and angry messages, and I forced him to make
a move. Any one found selling anything to either yourself or your men would be punished." Accordingly,
I stopped the daily issue of beads; but no sooner had I done so, than all my men declared they
could not eat plantains. It was all very well, they said, for the Waganda to do so, because
they were used to it, but it did not satisfy their hunger.

Maula, all smirks and smiles, on seeing me order the things out for the march, begged I would
have patience, and wait till the messenger returned from the king; it would not take more than
ten days at the most. Much annoyed at this nonsense, I ordered my tent to be pitched. I refused
all Maula's plantains, and gave my men beads to buy grain with; and, finding it necessary to
get up some indignation, said I would not stand being chained like a dog; if he would not go
on ahead, I should go without him. Maula then said he would go to a friend's and come back
again. I said, if he did not, I should go off; and so the conversation ended.

26th.--Drumming, singing, screaming, yelling, and dancing had been going on these last two
days and two nights to drive the Phepo or devil out of a village. The whole of the ceremonies
were most ludicrous. An old man and woman, smeared with white mud, and holding pots of pombe
in their laps, sat in front of a hut, whilst other people kept constantly bringing them baskets
full of plantain-squash, and more pots of pombe. In the courtyard fronting them, were hundreds
of men and women dressed in smart mbugus--the males wearing for turbans, strings of abrus-seeds
wound round their heads, with polished boars' tusks stuck in in a jaunty manner. These were
the people who, drunk as fifers, were keeping up such a continual row to frighten the devil
away. In the midst of this assembly I now found Kachuchu, Rumanika's representative, who went
on ahead from Karague palace to tell Mtesa that I wished to see him. With him, he said, were
two other Wakungu of Mtesa's, who had orders to bring on my party and Dr K'yengo's. Mtesa,
he said, was so mad to see us, that the instant he arrived at the palace and told him we wished
to visit him, the king caused "fifty big men and four hundred small ones" to be executed, because,
he said, his subjects were so bumptious they would not allow any visitors to come near him,
else he would have had white men before.

27th.--N'yamgundu, my old friend at Usui, then came to me, and said he was the first man to
tell Mtesa of our arrival in Usui, and wish to visit him. The handkerchief I had given Irungu
at Usui to present as a letter to Mtesa he had snatched away from him, and given, himself,
to his king, who no sooner received it than he bound it round his head, and said, in ecstasies
of delight, "Oh, the Mzungu, the Mzungu! he does indeed want to see me." Then giving him four
cows as a return letter to take to me, he said, "Hurry off as quickly as possible and bring
him here." "The cows," said N'yamgundu, "have gone on to Kisuere by another route, but I will
bring them here; and then, as Maula is taking you, I will go and fetch Grant." I then told
him not to be in such a hurry. I had turned off Maula for treating me like a dog, and I would
not be escorted by him again. He replied that his orders would not be fully accomplished as
long as any part of my establishment was behind; so he would, if I wished it, leave part of
his "children" to guide me on to Mtesa's, whilst he went to fetch Grant. An officer, I assured
him, had just gone on to fetch Grant, so he need not trouble his head on that score; at any
rate, he might reverse his plan, and send his children for Grant, whilst he went on with me,
by which means he would fully accomplish his mission. Long arguments ensued, and I at length
turned the tables by asking who was the greatest--myself or my children; when he said, "As
I see you are the greatest, I will do as you wish; and after fetching the cows from Kisuere,
we will march to-morrow at sunrise."

The sun rose, but N'yamgundu did not appear. I was greatly annoyed lest Maula should come and
try to drive him away. I waited, restraining my impatience until noon, when, as I could stand
it no longer, I ordered Bombay to strike my tent, and commence the march. A scene followed,
which brought out my commander-in-chief's temper in a rather surprising shape. "How can we
go in?" said Bombay. "Strike the tent," said I. "Who will guide us?" said Bombay. "Strike the
tent," I said again. "But Rumanika's men have all gone away, and there is no one to show us
the way." "Never mind; obey my orders, and strike the tent." Then, as Bombay would not do it,
I commenced myself, assisted by some of my other men, and pulled it down over his head, all
the women who were assembled under it, and all the property. On this, Bombay flew into a passion,
abusing the men who were helping me, as there were fires and powder-boxes under the tent. I
of course had to fly into a passion and abuse Bombay. He, in a still greater rage, said he
would pitch into the men, for the whole place would be blown up. "That is no reason why you
should abuse my men," I said, "who are better than you by obeying my orders. If I choose to
blow up my property, that is my look-out; and if you don't do your duty, I will blow you up
also." Foaming and roaring with rage, Bombay said he would not stand being thus insulted. I
then gave him a dig on the head with my fist. He squared up, and pouted like an enraged chameleon,
looking savagely at me. I gave him another dig, which sent him staggering. He squared again:
I gave him another; till at last, as the claret was flowing, he sulked off, and said he would
not serve me any more. I then gave Nasib orders to take Bombay's post, and commence the march;
but the good old man made Bombay give in, and off we went, amidst crowds of Waganda, who had
collected to witness with comedy, and were all digging at one another's heads, showing off
in pantomime the strange ways of the white man. N'yamgundu then jointed us, and begged us to
halt only one more day, as some of his women were still at Kisuere; but Bombay, showing his
nozzle rather flatter than usual, said, "No; I got this on account of your lies. I won't tell
Bana any more of your excuses for stopping; you may tell him yourself if you like." N'yamgundu,
however, did not think this advisable, and so we went on as we were doing. It was the first
and last time I had ever occasion to lose my dignity by striking a blow with my own hands;
but I could not help it on this occasion without losing command and respect; for although I
often had occasion to award 100 and even 150 lashes to my men for stealing, I could not, for
the sake of due subordination, allow any inferior officer to strike Bombay, and therefore had
to do the work myself.

Skirting the hills on the left, with a large low plain to the right we soon came on one of
those numerous rush-drains that appear to me to be the last waters left of the old bed of the
N'yanza. This one in particular was rather large, being 150 yards wide. It was sunk where I
crossed it, like a canal, 14 feet below the plain; and what with mire and water combined, so
deep, I was obliged to take off my trousers whilst fording it. Once across, we sought for and
put up in a village beneath a small hill, from the top of which I saw the Victoria N'yanza
for the first time on this march. N'yamgundu delighted me much: treating me as king, he always
fell down on his knees to address me, and made all his "children" look after my comfort in camp.

We marched on again over the same kind of ground, alternately crossing rush-drains of minor
importance, though provokingly frequent, and rich gardens, from which, as we passed, all the
inhabitants bolted at the sound of our drums, knowing well that they would be seized and punished
if found gazing at the king's visitors. Even on our arrival at Ukara not one soul was visible.
The huts of the villagers were shown to myself and my men without any ceremony. The Wanyambo
escort stole what they liked out of them, and I got into no end of troubles trying to stop
the practice; for they said the Waganda served them the same way when they went to Karague,
and they had a right to retaliate now. To obviate this distressing sort of plundering, I still
served out beads to my men, and so kept them in hand a little; but they were fearfully unruly,
and did not like my interference with what by the laws of the country they considered their right.

Here I had to stop a day for some of N'yamgundu's women, who, in my hurry at leaving Maula's,
were left behind. A letter from Grant was now brought to me by a very nice-looking young man,
who had the skin of a leopard-cat (F. Serval) tied round his neck--a badge which royal personages
only were entitled to wear. N'yamgundu seeing this, as he knew the young man was not entitled
to wear it, immediately ordered his "children" to wrench it from him. Two ruffianly fellows
then seized him by his hands, and twisted his arms round and round until I thought they would
come out of their sockets. Without uttering a sound the young man resisted, until N'yamgundu
told them to be quiet, for he would hold a court on the subject, and see if the young man could
defend himself. The ruffians then sat on the ground, but still holding on to him; whilst N'yamgundu
took up a long stick, and breaking it into sundry bits of equal length, placed one by one in
front of him, each of which was supposed to represent one number in line of succession to his
forefathers. By this it was proved he did not branch in any way from the royal stock. N'yamgundu
then turning to the company, said, What would he do now to expiate his folly? If the matter
was taken before Mtesa he would lose his head; was it not better he should pay one hundred
cows All agreeing to this, the young man said he would do so, and quietly allowed the skin
to be untied and taken off by the ruffians.

Next day, after crossing more of those abominable rush-drains, whilst in sight of the Victoria
N'yanza, we ascended the most beautiful hills, covered with verdure of all descriptions. At
Meruka, where I put up, there resided some grandees, the chief of whom was the king's aunt.
She sent me a goat, a hen, a basket of eggs, and some plantains, in return for which I sent
her a wire and some beads. I felt inclined to stop here a month, everything was so very pleasant.
The temperature was perfect. The roads, as indeed they were everywhere, were as broad as our
coach-roads, cut through the long grasses, straight over the hills and down through the woods
in the dells--a strange contrast to the wretched tracks in all the adjacent countries. The
huts were kept so clean and so neat, not a fault could be found with them--the gardens the
same. Wherever I strolled I saw nothing but richness, and what ought to be wealth. The whole
land was a picture of quiescent beauty, with a boundless sea in the background. Looking over
the hills, it struck the fancy at once that at one period the whole land must have been at
a uniform level with their present tops, but that by the constant denudation it was subjected
to by frequent rains, it had been cut down and sloped into those beautiful hills and dales
which now so much pleased the eye; for there were none of those quartz dykes I had seen protruding
through the same kink of aqueous formations in Usui and Karague; nor were there any other sorts
of volcanic disturbance to distort the calm quiet aspect of the scene.

From this, the country being all hill and dale, with miry rush-drains in the bottoms, I walked,
carrying my shoes and stockings in my hands, nearly all the way. Rozaro's "children" became
more and more troublesome, stealing everything they could lay their hands upon out of the village
huts we passed on the way. On arrival at Sangua, I found many of them had been seized by some
men who, bolder than the rest, had overtaken them whilst gutting their huts, and made them
prisoners, demanding of me two slaves and one load of beads for their restitution. I sent my
men back to see what had happened, and ordered them to bring all the men on to me, that I might
see fair play. They, however, took the law into their own hands, drove off the Waganda villagers
by firing their muskets, and relieved the thieves. A complaint was then laid against Nyamgundu
by the chief officer of the village, and I was requested to halt. That I would not do, leaving
the matter in the hands of the governor-general, Mr Pokino, whom I heard we should find at
the next station, Masaka.

On arrival there at the government establishment--a large collection of grass huts, separated
one from the other within large enclosures, which overspread the whole top of a low hill--I
was requested to withdraw and put up in some huts a short distance off, and wait until his
excellency, who was from home, could come and see me; which the next day he did, coming in
state with a large number of officers, who brought with them a cow, sundry pots of pombe, enormous
sticks of sugar-cane, and a large bundle of country coffee. This grows in great profusion all
over this land in large bushy trees, the berries sticking on the branches like clusters of
hollyberries.

I was then introduced, and told that his excellency was the appointed governor of all the land
lying between the Katonga and the Kitangule rivers. After the first formalities were over,
the complaint about the officers at Sangua was preferred for decision, on which Pokino at once
gave it against the villagers, as they had no right, by the laws of the land, to lay hands
on a king's guest. Just then Maula arrived, and began to abuse N'yamgundu. Of course I would
not stand this; and, after telling all the facts of the case, I begged Pokino to send Maula
away out of my camp. Pokino said he could not do this, as it was by the king's order he was
appointed; but he put Maula in the background, laughing at the way he had "let the bird fly
out of his hands," and settled that N'yamgundu should be my guide. I then gave him a wire,
and he gave me three large sheets of mbugu, which he said I should require, as there were so
many water-courses to cross on the road I was going. A second day's halt was necessitated by
many of my men catching fever, probably owing to the constant crossing of those abominable
rush-drains. There was no want of food here, for I never saw such a profusion of plantains
anywhere. They were literally lying in heaps on the ground, though the people were brewing
pombe all day, and cooking them for dinner every evening.

After crossing many more hills and miry bottoms, constantly coming in view of the lake, we
reached Ugonzi, and after another march of the same description, came to Kituntu, the last
officer's residence in Uddu. Formerly it was the property of a Beluch named Eseau, who came
to this country with merchandise, trading on account of Said Said, late Sultan of Zanzibar;
but having lost it all on his way here, paying mahongo, or taxes, and so forth he feared returning,
and instead made great friends with the late king Sunna, who took an especial fancy to him
because he had a very large beard, and raised him to the rank of Mkungu. A few years ago, however,
Eseau died, and left all his family and property to a slave named Uledi, who now, in consequence,
is the border officer.

I became now quite puzzled whilst thinking which was the finest spot I had seen in Uddu, so
many were exceedingly beautiful; but I think I gave the preference to this, both for its own
immediate neighbourhood and the long range of view it afforded of Uganda proper, the lake,
and the large island, or group of islands, called Sese where the king of Uganda keeps one of
his fleets of boats.

Some little boys came here who had all their hair shaved off excepting two round tufts on either
side of the head. They were the king's pages; and, producing three sticks, said they had brought
them to me from their king, who wanted three charms or medicines. Then placing one stick on
the ground before me, they said, "This one is a head which, being affected by dreams of a deceased
relative, requires relief"; the second symbolised the king's desire for the accomplishment
of a phenomenon to which the old phalic worship was devoted; "and this third one," they said,
"is a sign that the king wants a charm to keep all his subjects in awe of him." I then promised
I would do what I could when I reached the palace, but feared to do anything in the distance.
I wished to go on with the march, but was dissuaded by N'yamgundu, who said he had received
orders to find me some cows here, as his king was most anxious I should be well fed. Next day,
however, we descended into the Katonga valley, where, instead of finding a magnificent broad
sheet of water, as I had been led to expect by the Arabs' account of it, I found I had to wade
through a succession of rush-drains divided one from the other by islands. It took me two hours,
with my clothes tucked up under my arms, to get through them all; and many of them were so
matted with weeds, that my feet sank down as though I trod in a bog.

The Waganda all said that at certain times in the year no one could ford these drains, as they
all flooded; but, strangely enough, they were always lowest when most rain fell in Uganda.
No one, however, could account for this singular fact. No one knew of a lake to supply the
waters, nor where they came from. That they flowed into the lake there was no doubt--as I could
see by the trickling waters in some few places--and they lay exactly on the equator. Rising
out of the valley, I found all the country just as hilly as before, but many of the rush-drains
going to northward; and in the dells were such magnificent trees, they quite took me by surprise.
Clean-trunked, they towered up just as so many great pillars, and then spread out their high
branches like a canopy over us. I thought of the blue gums of Australia, and believed these
would beat them. At the village of Mbule we were gracefully received by the local officer,
who brought a small present, and assured me that the king was in a nervous state of excitement,
always asking after me. Whilst speaking he trembled, and he was so restless he could never
sit still.

Up and down we went on again through this wonderful country, surprisingly rich in grass, cultivation,
and trees. Watercourses were as frequent as ever, though not quite so troublesome to the traveller,
as they were more frequently bridged with poles or palm-tree trunks.

This, the next place we arrived at, was N'yamgundu's own residence, where I stopped a day to
try and shoot buffaloes. Maula here had the coolness to tell me he must inspect all the things
I had brought for presentation to the king, as he said it was the custom; after which he would
hurry on and inform his majesty. Of course I refused, saying it was uncourteous to both the
king and myself. Still he persisted, until, finding it hopeless, he spitefully told N'yamgundu
to keep me here at least two days. N'yamgundu, however, very prudently told him he should obey
his orders, which were to take me on as fast as he could. I then gave N'yamgundu wires and
beads for himself and all his family round, which made Maula slink further away from me than ever.

The buffaloes were very numerous in the tall grasses that lined the sides and bottoms of the
hills; but although I saw some, I could not get a shot, for the grasses being double the height
of myself, afforded them means of dashing out of view as soon as seen, and the rustling noise
made whilst I followed them kept them on the alert. At night a hyena came into my hut, and
carried off one of my goats that was tied to a log between two of my sleeping men.

During the next march, after passing some of the most beautifully-wooded dells, in which lay
small rush-lakes on the right of the road, draining, as I fancied, into the Victoria Lake,
I met with a party of the king's gamekeepers, staking their nets all along the side of a hill,
hoping to catch antelopes by driving the covers with dogs and men. Farther on, also, I came
on a party driving one hundred cows, as a present from Mtesa to Rumanika, which the officers
in charge said was their king's return for the favour Rumanika had done him in sending me on
to him. It was in this way that great kings sent "letters" to one another.

Next day, after going a short distance, we came on the Mwarango river, a broad rush-drain of
three hundred yards' span, two-thirds of which was bridged over. Until now I did not feel sure
where the various rush-drains I had been crossing since leaving the Katonga valley all went
to, but here my mind was made up, for I found a large volume of water going to the northwards.
I drew Bombay's attention to the current; and, collecting all the men of the country, inquired
of them where the river sprang from. Some of them said, in the hills to the southward; but
most of them said, from the lake. I argued the point with them; for I felt quite sure so large
a body of flowing water could not be collected together in any place but the lake. They then
all agreed to this view, and further assured me it went to Kamrasi's palace in Unyoro, where
it joined the N'yanza, meaning the Nile.

Pushing on again we arrived at N'yama Goma, where I found Irungu--the great ambassador I had
first met in Usui, with all his "children"--my enemy Makinga, and Suwarora's deputation with
wire,--altogether, a collection of one hundred souls. They had been here a month waiting for
leave to approach the king's palace. Not a villager was to be seen for miles round; not a plantain
remained on the trees, nor was there even a sweet potato to be found in the ground. The whole
of the provisions of this beautiful place had been devoured by the king's guests, simply because
he had been too proud to see them in a hurry. This was alarming, for I feared I should be served
the same trick, especially as all the people said this kind of treatment was a mere matter
of custom which those great kings demanded as a respect due to their dignity; and Bombay added,
with laughter, they make all manner of fuss to entice one to come when in the distance, but
when they have got you in their power they become haughty about it, and think only of how they
can best impose on your mind the great consequence which they affect before their own people.

Here I was also brought to a standstill, for N'yamgundu said I must wait for leave to approach
the palace. He wished to have a look at the presents I had brought for Mtesa. I declined to
gratify it, taking my stand on my dignity; there was no occasion for any distrust on such a
trifling matter as that, for I was not a merchant who sought for gain, but had come, at great
expense, to see the king of this region. I begged, however, he would go as fast as possible
to announce my arrival, explain my motive for coming here, and ask for an early interview,
as I had left my brother Grant behind at Karague, and found my position, for want of a friend
to talk to, almost intolerable. It was not the custom of my country for great men to consort
with servants, and until I saw him, and made friends, I should not be happy. I had a great
deal to tell him about, as he was the father of the Nile, which river drained the N'yanza down
to my country to the northward. With this message N'yamgundu hurried off as fast as possible.

Next day (15th) I gave each of my men a fez cap, and a piece of red blanket to make up military
jackets. I then instructed them how to form a guard of honour when I went to the palace, and
taught Bombay the way Nazirs was presented at courts in India. Altogether we made a good show.
When this was concluded I went with Nasib up a hill, from which we could see the lake on one
side, and on the other a large range of huts said to belong to the king's uncle, the second
of the late king Sunna's brothers, who was not burnt to death when he ascended the throne.

I then (16th) very much wished to go and see the escape of the Mwerango river, as I still felt
a little sceptical as to its origin, whether or not it came off those smaller lakes I had seen
on the road the day before I crossed the river; but no one would listen to my project. They
all said I must have the king's sanction first, else people, from not knowing my object, would
accuse me of practising witchcraft, and would tell their king so. They still all maintained
that the river did come out of the lake, and said, if I liked to ask the king's leave to visit
the spot, then they would go and show it me. I gave way, thinking it prudent to do so, but
resolved in my mind I would get Grant to see it in boats on his voyage from Karague. There
were not guinea-fowls to be found here, nor a fowl, in any of the huts, so I requested Rozaro
to hurry off to Mtesa, and ask him to send me something to eat. He simply laughed at my request,
and said I did not know what I was doing. It would be as much as his life was worth to go one
yard in advance of this until the king's leave was obtained. I said, rather than be starved
to death in this ignominious manner, I would return to Karague; to which he replied, laughing,
"Whose leave have you got to do that? Do you suppose you can do as you like in this country?"

Next day (17th), in the evening, N'yamgundu returned full of smirks and smiles, dropped on
his knees at my feet, and, in company with his "children," set to n'yanzigging, according to
the form of that state ceremonial already described. [17] In his excitement he was hardly able
to say all he had to communicate. Bit by bit, however, I learned that he first went to the
palace, and, finding the king had gone off yachting to the Murchison Creek, he followed him
there. The king for a long while would not believe his tale that I had come, but, being assured,
he danced with delight, and swore he would not taste food until he had seen me. "Oh," he said,
over and over again and again, according to my informer, "can this be true? Can the white man
have come all this way to see me? What a strong man he must be too, to come so quickly! Here
are seven cows, four of them milch ones, as you say he likes milk, which you will give him;
and there are three for yourself for having brought him so quickly. Now, hurry off as fast
as you can, and tell him I am more delighted at the prospect of seeing him than he can be to
see me. There is no place here fit for his reception. I was on a pilgrimage which would have
kept me here seven days longer but as I am so impatient to see him, I will go off to my palace
at once, and will send word for him to advance as soon as I arrive there."

About noon the succeeding day, some pages ran in to say we were to come along without a moment's
delay, as their king had ordered it. He would not taste food until he saw me, so that everybody
might know what great respect he felt for me. In the meanwhile, however, he wished for some
gunpowder. I packed the pages off as fast as I could with some, and tried myself to follow,
but my men were all either sick or out foraging, and therefore we could not get under way until
the evening. After going a certain distance, we came on a rush-drain, of much greater breadth
even than the Mwerango, called the Moga (or river) Myanza, which was so deep I had to take
off my trousers and tuck my clothes under my arms. It flowed into the Mwerango, but with scarcely
any current at all. This rush-drain, all the natives assured me, rose in the hills to the southward--not
in the lake, as the Mwerango did--and it was never bridged over like that river, because it
was always fordable. This account seemed to me reasonable; for though so much broader in its
bed than the Mwerango, it had no central, deep-flowing current.

Chapter XI. Palace, Uganda

Preparations for the Reception at the Court of Mtesa, King of Uganda--The Ceremonial--African
Diplomacy and Dignity--Feats with the Rifle--Cruelty, and Wastefulness of Life--The Pages--The
Queen-Dowager of Uganda--Her Court Reception--I negotiate for a Palace--Conversations with
the King and Queen--The Queen's grand Entertainment--Royal Dissipation.

To-day the king sent his pages to announce his intention of holding a levee in my honour. I
prepared for my first presentation at court, attired in my best, though in it I cut a poor
figure in comparison with the display of the dressy Waganda. They wore neat bark cloaks resembling
the best yellow corduroy cloth, crimp and well set, as if stiffened with starch, and over that,
as upper-cloaks, a patchwork of small antelope skins, which I observed were sewn together as
well as any English glovers could have pieced them; whilst their head-dresses, generally, were
abrus turbans, set off with highly-polished boar-tusks, stick-charms, seeds, beads, or shells;
and on their necks, arms, and ankles they wore other charms of wood, or small horns stuffed
with magic powder, and fastened on by strings generally covered with snake-skin. N'yamgundu
and Maula demanded, as their official privilege, a first peep; and this being refused, they
tried to persuade me that the articles comprising the present required to be covered with chintz,
for it was considered indecorous to offer anything to his majesty in a naked state.

On the march towards the palace, the admiring courtiers, wonder-struck at such an unusual display,
exclaimed, in raptures of astonishment, some with both hands at their mouths, and others clasping
their heads with their hands, "Irungi! irungi!" which may be translated "Beautiful! beautiful!"
I thought myself everything was going on as well as could be wished; but before entering the
royal enclosures, I found, to my disagreeable surprise, that the men with Suwarora's hongo
or offering, which consisted of more than a hundred coils of wire, were ordered to lead the
procession, and take precedence of me. There was something specially aggravating in this precedence;
for it will be remembered that these very brass wires which they saw, I had myself intended
for Mtesa, that they were taken from me by Suwarora as far back as Usui, and it would never
do, without remonstrance, to have them boastfully paraded before my eyes in this fashion. My
protests, however, had no effect upon the escorting Wakungu. Resolving to make them catch it,
I walked along as if ruminating in anger up the broad high road into a cleared square, which
divides Mtesa's domain on the south from his Kamraviona's, or commander-in-chief, on the north,
and then turned into the court. The palace or entrance quite surprised me by its extraordinary
dimensions, and the neatness with which it was kept. The whole brow and sides of the hill on
which we stood were covered with gigantic grass huts, thatched as neatly as so many heads dressed
by a London barber, and fenced all round with the tall yellow reeds of the common Uganda tiger-grass;
whilst within the enclosure, the lines of huts were joined together, or partitioned off into
courts, with walls of the same grass. It is here most of Mtesa's three or four hundred women
are kept, the rest being quartered chiefly with his mother, known by the title of N'yamasore,
or queen-dowager. They stood in little groups at the doors, looking at us, and evidently passing
their own remarks, and enjoying their own jokes, on the triumphal procession. At each gate
as we passed, officers on duty opened and shut it for us, jingling the big bells which are
hung upon them, as they sometimes are at shop-doors, to prevent silent, stealthy entrance.

The first court passed, I was even more surprised to find the unusual ceremonies that awaited me.

This, then, was the ante-reception court; and I might have taken possession of the hut, in
which musicians were playing and singing on large nine-stringed harps, like the Nubian tambira,
accompanied by harmonicons. By the chief officers in waiting, however, who thought fit to treat
us like Arab merchants, I was requested to sit on the ground outside in the sun with my servants.
Now, I had made up my mind never to sit upon the ground as the natives and Arabs are obliged
to do, nor to make my obeisance in any other manner than is customary in England, though the
Arabs had told me that from fear they had always complied with the manners of the court. I
felt that if I did not stand up for my social position at once, I should be treated with contempt
during the remainder of my visit, and thus lose the vantage-ground I had assumed of appearing
rather as a prince than a trader, for the purpose of better gaining the confidence of the king.
To avert over-hastiness, however--for my servants began to be alarmed as I demurred against
doing as I was bid--I allowed five minutes to the court to give me a proper reception, saying,
if it were not conceded I would then walk away.

Nothing, however, was done. My own men, knowing me, feared for me, as they did not know what
a "savage" king would do in case I carried out my threat; whilst the Waganda, lost in amazement
at what seemed little less than blasphemy, stood still as posts. The affair ended by my walking
straight away home, giving Bombay orders to leave the present on the ground, and to follow me.

Although the king is said to be unapproachable, excepting when he chooses to attend court--a
ceremony which rarely happens--intelligence of my hot wrath and hasty departure reached him
in an instant. He first, it seems, thought of leaving his toilet-room to follow me, but, finding
I was walking fast, and had gone far, changed his mind, and sent Wakungu running after me.
Poor creatures! they caught me up, fell upon their knees, and implored I would return at once,
for the king had not tasted food, and would not until he saw me. I felt grieved at their touching
appeals; but, as I did not understand all they said, I simply replied by patting my heart and
shaking my head, walking if anything all the faster.

On my arrival at my hut, Bombay and others came in, wet through with perspiration, saying the
king had heard of all my grievances. Suwarora's hongo was turned out of court, and, if I desired
it, I might bring my own chair with me, for he was very anxious to show me great respect--although
such a seat was exclusively the attribute of the king, no one else in Uganda daring to sit
on an artificial seat.

My point was gained, so I cooled myself with coffee and a pipe, and returned rejoicing in my
victory, especially over Suwarora. After returning to the second tier of huts from which I
had retired, everybody appeared to be in a hurried, confused state of excitement, not knowing
what to make out of so unprecedented an exhibition of temper. In the most polite manner, the
officers in waiting begged me to be seated on my iron stool, which I had brought with me, whilst
others hurried in to announce my arrival. But for a few minutes only I was kept in suspense,
when a band of music, the musicians wearing on their backs long-haired goat-skins, passed me,
dancing as they went along, like bears in a fair, and playing on reed instruments worked over
with pretty beads in various patters, from which depended leopard-cat skins--the time being
regulated by the beating of long hand-drums.

The mighty king was now reported to be sitting on his throne in the statehut of the third tier.
I advanced, hat in hand, with my guard of honour following, formed in "open ranks," who in
their turn were followed by the bearers carrying the present. I did not walk straight up to
him as if to shake hands, but went outside the ranks of a three-sided square of squatting Wakungu,
all inhabited in skins, mostly cow-skins; some few of whom had, in addition, leopard-cat skins
girt round the waist, the sign of royal blood. Here I was desired to halt and sit in the glaring
sun; so I donned my hat, mounted my umbrella, a phenomenon which set them all a-wondering and
laughing, ordered the guard to close ranks, and sat gazing at the novel spectacle! A more theatrical
sight I never saw. The hair of his head was cut short, excepting on the top, where it was combed
up into a high ridge, running from stem to stern like a cockscomb. On his neck was a very neat
ornament--a large ring, of beautifully-worked small beads, forming elegant patterns by their
various colours. On one arm was another bead ornament, prettily devised; and on the other a
wooden charm, tied by a string covered with snakeskin. On every finger and every toe, he had
alternate brass and copper rings; and above the ankles, halfway up to the calf, a stocking
of very pretty beads. Everything was light, neat, and elegant in its way; not a fault could
be found with the taste of his "getting up." For a handkerchief he held a well-folded piece
of bark, and a piece of gold-embroidered silk, which he constantly employed to hide his large
mouth when laughing, or to wipe it after a drink of plantain-wine, of which he took constant
and copious draughts from neat little gourd-cups, administered by his ladies-in-waiting, who
were at once his sisters and wives.

I was now asked to draw nearer within the hollow square of squatters, where leopard-skins were
strewed upon the ground, and a large copper kettledrum, surmounted with brass bells on arching
wires, along with two other smaller drums covered with cowrie-shells, and beads of colour worked
into patterns, were placed. I now longed to open conversation, but knew not the language, and
no one near me dared speak, or even lift his head from fear of being accused of eyeing the
women; so the king and myself sat staring at one another for full an hour--I mute, but he pointing
and remarking with those around him on the novelty of my guard and general appearance, and
even requiring to see my hat lifted, the umbrella shut and opened, and the guards face about
and show off their red cloaks--for such wonders had never been seen in Uganda.

Then, finding the day waning, he sent Maula on an embassy to ask me if I had seen him; and
on receiving my reply, "Yes, for full one hour," I was glad to find him rise, spear in hand,
lead his dog, and walk unceremoniously away through the enclosure into the fourth tier of huts;
for this being a pure levee day, no business was transacted. The king's gait in retiring was
intended to be very majestic, but did not succeed in conveying to me that impression. It was
the traditional walk of his race, founded on the step of the lion; but the outward sweep of
the legs, intended to represent the stride of the noble beast, appeared to me only to realise
a very ludicrous kind of waddle, which made me ask Bombay if anything serious was the matter
with the royal person.

I had now to wait for some time, almost as an act of humanity; for I was told the state secret,
that the king had retired to break his fast and eat for the first time since hearing of my
arrival; but the repast was no sooner over than he prepared for the second act, to show off
his splendour, and I was invited in, with all my men, to the exclusion of all his own officers
save my two guides. Entering as before, I found him standing on a red blanket, leaning against
the right portal of the hut, talking and laughing, handkerchief in hand, to a hundred or more
of his admiring wives, who, all squatting on the ground outside, in two groups, were dressed
in mew mbugus. My men dared not advance upright, nor look upon the women, but, stooping, with
lowered heads and averted eyes, came cringing after me. Unconscious myself, I gave loud and
impatient orders to my guard, rebuking them for moving like frightened geese, and, with hat
in hand, stood gazing on the fair sex till directed to sit and cap.

Mtesa then inquired what messages were brought from Rumanika; to which Maula, delighted with
the favour of speaking to royalty, replied by saying, Rumanika had gained intelligence of Englishmen
coming up the Nile to Gani and Kidi. The king acknowledged the truthfulness of their story,
saying he had heard the same himself; and both Wakungu, as is the custom in Uganda, thanked
their lord in a very enthusiastic manner, kneeling on the ground--for no one can stand in the
presence of his majesty--in an attitude of prayer, and throwing out their hands as they repeated
the words N'yanzig, N'yanzig, ai N'yanzig Mkahma wangi, etc., etc., for a considerable time;
when, thinking they had done enough of this, and heated with the exertion, they threw themselves
flat upon their stomachs, and, floundering about like fish on land, repeated the same words
over again and again, and rose doing the same, with their faces covered with earth; for majesty
in Uganda is never satisfied till subjects have grovelled before it like the most abject worms.
This conversation over, after gazing at me, and chatting with his women for a considerable
time, the second scene ended. The third scene was more easily arranged, for the day was fast
declining. He simply moved his train of women to another hut, where, after seating himself
upon his throne, with his women around him, he invited me to approach the nearest limits of
propriety, and to sit as before. Again he asked me if I had seen him--evidently desirous of
indulging in his regal pride; so I made the most of the opportunity thus afforded me of opening
a conversation by telling him of those grand reports I had formerly heard about him, which
induced me to come all his way to see him, and the trouble it had cost me to reach the object
of my desire; at the same time taking a gold ring from off my finger, and presenting it to
him, I said, "This is a small token of friendship; if you will inspect it, it is made after
the fashion of a dog-collar, and, being the king of metals, gold, is in every respect appropriate
to your illustrious race."

He said, in return, "If friendship is your desire, what would you say if I showed you a road
by which you might reach your home in one month?" Now everything had to be told to Bombay,
then to Nasib, my Kiganda interpreter, and then to either Maula or N'yamgundu, before it was
delivered to the king, for it was considered indecorous to transmit any message to his majesty
excepting through the medium of one of his officers. Hence I could not get an answer put in;
for as all Waganda are rapid and impetuous in their conversation, the king, probably forgetting
he had put a question, hastily changed the conversation and said, "What guns have you got?
Let me see the one you shoot with." I wished still to answer the first question first, as I
knew he referred to the direct line to Zanzibar across the Masai, and was anxious, without
delay, to open the subject of Petherick and Grant; but no one dared to deliver my statement.
Much disappointed, I then said, "I had brought the best shooting-gun in the world--Whitworth's
rifle--which I begged he would accept, with a few other trifles; and, with his permission,
I would lay them upon a carpet at his feet, as is the custom of my country when visiting sultans."
He assented, sent all his women away, and had an mbugu spread for the purpose, on which Bombay,
obeying my order, first spread a red blanket, and then opened each article one after the other,
when Nasib, according to the usage already mentioned, smoothed them down with his dirty hands,
or rubbed them against his sooty face, and handed them to the king to show there was no poison
or witchcraft in them. Mtesa appeared quite confused with the various wonders as he handled
them, made silly remarks, and pondered over them like a perfect child, until it was quite dark.
Torches were then lit, and guns, pistols, powder, boxes, tools, beads--the whole collection,
in short--were tossed together topsy-turvy, bundled into mbugus, and carried away by the pages.
Mtesa now said, "It is late, and time to break up; what provisions would you wish to have?"
I said, "A little of everything, but no one thing constantly." "And would you like to see me
to-morrow?" "Yes, every day." "Then you can't to-morrow, for I have business; but the next
day come if you like. You can now go away, and here are six pots of plantain-wine for you;
my men will search for food to-morrow."

21st.--In the morning, whilst it rained, some pages drove in twenty cows and ten goats, with
a polite metaphorical message from their king, to the effect that I had pleased him much, and
he hoped I would accept these few "chickens" until he could send more,--when both Maula and
N'yamgundu, charmed with their success in having brought a welcome guest to Uganda, never ceased
showering eulogiums on me for my fortune in having gained the countenance of their king. The
rain falling was considered at court a good omen, and everybody declared the king mad with
delight. Wishing to have a talk with him about Petherick and Grant, I at once started off the
Wakungu to thank him for the present, and to beg pardon for my apparent rudeness of yesterday,
at the same time requesting I might have an early interview with his majesty, as I had much
of importance to communicate; but the solemn court formalities which these African kings affect
as much as Oriental emperors, precluded my message from reaching the king. I heard, however,
that he had spent the day receiving Suwarora's hongo of wire, and that the officer who brought
them was made to sit in an empty court, whilst the king sat behind a screen, never deigning
to show his majestic person. I was told, too, that he opened conversation by demanding to know
how it happened that Suwarora became possessed of the wires, for they were made by the white
men to be given to himself, and Suwarora must therefore have robbed me of them; and it was
by such practices he, Mtesa, never could see any visitors. The officer's reply was, Suwarora
would not show the white men any respect, because they were wizards would did not sleep in
houses at night, but flew up to the tops of hills, and practised sorcery of every abominable
kind. The king to this retorted, in a truly African fashion, "That's a lie; I can see no harm
in this white man; and if he had been a bad man, Rumanika would not have sent him on to me."
At night, when in bed, the king sent his pages to say, if I desired his friendship I would
lend him one musket to make up six with what I had given him, for he intended visiting his
relations the following morning. I sent three, feeling that nothing would be lost by being
"open-handed."

22d.--To-day the king went the round of his relations, showing the beautiful things given him
by the white man--a clear proof that he was much favoured by the "spirits," for neither his
father nor any of his forefathers had been so recognised and distinguished by any "sign" as
a rightful inheritor to the Uganda throne: an anti-Christian interpretation of omens, as rife
in these dark regions now as it was in the time of King Nebuchadnezzar. At midnight the three
muskets were returned, and I was so pleased with the young king's promptitude and honesty,
I begged he would accept them.

23d.--At noon Mtesa sent his pages to invite me to his palace. I went, with my guard of honour
and my stool, but found I had to sit waiting in an ante-hut three hours with his commander-in-chief
and other high officers before he was ready to see me. During this time Wasoga minstrels, playing
on tambira, and accompanied by boys playing on a harmonicon, kept us amused; and a small page,
with a large bundle of grass, came to me and said, "The king hopes you won't be offended if
required to sit on it before him; for no person in Uganda, however high in office, is ever
allowed to sit upon anything raised above the ground, nor can anybody but himself sit upon
such grass as this; it is all that his throne is made of. The first day he only allowed you
to sit on your stool to appease your wrath."

On consenting to do in "Rome as the Romans do," when my position was so handsomely acknowledged,
I was called in, and found the court sitting much as it was on the first day's interview, only
that the number of squatting Wakungu was much diminished; and the king, instead of wearing
his ten brass and copper rings, had my gold one on his third finger. This day, however, was
cut out for business, as, in addition to the assemblage of officers, there were women, cows,
goats, fowls, confiscations, baskets of fish, baskets of small antelopes, porcupines, and curious
rats caught by his gamekeepers, bundles of mbugu, etc., etc., made by his linen-drapers, coloured
earths and sticks by his magician, all ready for presentation; but, as rain fell, the court
broke up, and I had nothing for it but to walk about under my umbrella, indulging in angry
reflections against the haughty king for not inviting me into his hut.

When the rain had ceased, and we were again called in, he was found sitting in state as before,
but this time with the head of a black bull placed before him, one horn of which, knocked off,
was placed alongside, whilst four living cows walked about the court.

I was now requested to shoot the four cows as quickly as possible; but having no bullets for
my gun, I borrowed the revolving pistol I had given him, and shot all four in a second of time;
but as the last one, only wounded, turned sharply upon me, I gave him the fifth and settled
him. Great applause followed this wonderful feat, and the cows were given to my men. The king
now loaded one of the carbines I had given him with his own hands, and giving it full-cock
to a page, told him to go out and shoot a man in the outer court; which was no sooner accomplished
than the little urchin returned to announce his success, with a look of glee such as one would
see in the face of a boy who had robbed a bird's nest, caught a trout, or done any other boyish
trick. The king said to him, "And did you do it well?" "Oh, yes, capitally." He spoke the truth,
no doubt, for he dared not have trifled with the king; but the affair created hardly any interest.
I never heard, and there appeared no curiosity to know, what individual human being the urchin
had deprived of life.

The Wakungu were not dismissed, and I asked to draw near, when the king showed me a book I
had given to Rumanika, and begged for the inspiring medicine which he had before applied for
through the mystic stick. The day was now gone, so torches were lit, and we were ordered to
go, though as yet I had not been able to speak one word I wished to impart about Petherick
and Grant; for my interpreters were so afraid of the king they dared not open their mouths
until they were spoken to. The king was now rising to go, when, in great fear and anxiety that
the day would be lost, I said, in Kisuahili, "I wish you would send a letter by post to Grant,
and also send a boat up the Kitangule, as far as Rumanika's palace, for him, for he is totally
unable to walk." I thus attracted his notice, though he did not understand one word I uttered.
The result was, that he waited for the interpretation, and replied that a post would be no
use, for no one would be responsible for the safe delivery of the message; he would send N'yamgundu
to fetch him, but he thought Rumanika would not consent to his sending boats up the Kitangule
as far as the Little Windermere; and then, turning round with true Mganda impetuosity, he walked
away without taking a word from me in exchange.

24th.--Early this morning the pages came to say Mtesa desired I would send him three of my
Wanguaga to shoot cows before him. This was just what I wanted. It had struck me that personal
conferences with me so roused the excitable king, that there was no bringing plain matters
of business home to him; so, detaching seven men with Bombay, I told him, before shooting,
to be sure and elicit the matter I wanted--which was, to excite the king's cupidity by telling
him I had a boat full of stores with two white men at Gani, whom I wished to call to me if
he would furnish some guides to accompany my men; and further, as Grant could not walk, I wished
boats sent for him, at least as far as the ferry on the Kitangule, to which place Rumanika,
at any rate, would slip him down in canoes. At once, on arriving, Mtesa admitted the men, and
ordered them to shoot at some cows; but Bombay, obeying my orders to first have his talk out,
said, No--before he could shoot he must obey master and deliver his message; which no sooner
was told than the king, in a hurry, excited by the prospects of sport, impatiently said, "Very
good; I will send men either by water or overland through Kidi, [19] just as your master likes;
only some of his men had better go with mine: but now shoot cows, shoot cows; for I want to
see how the Waguana shoot." They shot seven, and all were given to them when they were dismissed.
In the evening the pages came to ask me if I would like to shoot kites in the palace with their
king; but I declined shooting anything less than elephants, rhinoceros, or buffaloes; and even
for these I would not go out unless the king went with me;--a dodge I conceived would tend
more than any other to bring us together, and so break through those ceremonial restraints
of the court, which at present were stopping all pans of progression.

25th.--The king invited me to shoot with him--really buffaloes--close to the palace; but as
the pages had been sent off in a hurry, without being fully instructed, I declined, on the
plea that I had always been gulled and kept waiting or treated with incivility, for hours before
I obtained an interview; and as I did not wish to have any more ruptures in the palace, I proposed
Bombay should go to make proper arrangements for my reception on the morrow--as anyhow, at
present I felt indisposed. The pages dreaded their master's wrath, departed for a while, and
then sent another lad to tell me he was sorry to hear I felt unwell, but he hoped I would come
if only for a minute, bringing my medicines with me, for he himself felt pain. That this second
message was a forged one I had no doubt, for the boys had not been long enough gone; still,
I packed up my medicines and went, leaving the onus, should any accident happen, upon the mischievous
story-bearers.

As I anticipated, on arrival at the palace I found the king was not ready to receive me, and
the pages desired me to sit with the officers in waiting until he might appear. I found it
necessary to fly at once into a rage, called the pages a set of deceiving young blackguards,
turned upon my heel, and walked straight back through the courts, intending to leave the palace.
Everybody was alarmed; information of my retreat at once reached the king, and he sent his
Wakungu to prevent my egress. These officers passed me, as I was walking hurriedly along under
my umbrella, in the last court, and shut the entrance-gate in front of me. This was too much,
so I stamped, and, pointing my finger, swore in every language I knew, that if they did not
open the gate again, as they had shut it at once, and that, too, before my face, I would never
leave the spot I stood upon alive. Terror-stricken, the Wakungu fell on their knees before
me, doing as they were bid; and, to please them, I returned at once, and went up to the king,
who, now sitting on his throne, asked the officers how they had managed to entice me back;
to which they all replied in a breath, n'yanzigging heartily, "Oh, we were so afraid--he was
so terrible! but he turned at once as soon as we opened the gate." "How? what gate? tell us
all about it." And when the whole story was fully narrated, the matter was thought a good joke.
After pausing a little, I asked the king what ailed him, for I was sorry to hear he had been
sick; but instead of replying, he shook his head, as much as to say, I had put a very uncouth
question to his majesty--and ordered some men to shoot cows.

Instead of admiring this childish pastime, which in Uganda is considered royal sport, I rather
looked disdainful, until, apparently disappointed at my indifference, he asked what the box
I had brought contained. On being told it was the medicine he desired, he asked me to draw
near, and sent his courtiers away. When only the interpreters and one confidential officer
were left, besides myself, he wished to know if I could apply the medicine without its touching
the afflicted part. To give him confidence in my surgical skill, I moved my finger, and asked
him if he knew what gave it action; and on his replying in the negative, I have him an anatomical
lecture, which so pleased him, he at once consented to be operated on, and I applied a blister
accordingly. The whole operation was rather ridiculous; for the blister, after being applied,
had to be rubbed in turn on the hands and faces of both Bombay and Nasib, to show there was
no evil spirit in the "doctor." Now, thought I to myself, is the right time for business; for
I had the king all to myself, then considered a most fortunate occurrence in Uganda, where
every man courts the favour of a word with his king, and adores him as a deity, and he in turn
makes himself as distance as he can, to give greater effect to his exalted position. The matter,
however, was merely deferred: for I no sooner told him my plans for communicating quickly with
Petherick and Grant, than, after saying he desired their coming even more than myself, he promised
to arrange everything on the morrow.

26th.--In the morning, as agreed, I called on the king, and found the blister had drawn nicely;
so I let off the water, which Bombay called the malady, and so delighted the king amazingly.
A basket of fruit, like Indian loquots, was then ordered in, and we ate them together, holding
a discussion about Grant and Petherick, which ended by the king promising to send an officer
by water to Kitangule, and another with two of my men, via Usoga and Kidi, to Gani; but as
it was necessary my men should go in disguise, I asked the king to send me four mbugu and two
spears; when, with the liberality of a great king, he sent me twenty sheets of the former,
four spears, and a load of sun-dried fish strung on a stick in shape of a shield.

27th.--At last something was done. One Uganda officer and one Kidi guide were sent to my hut
by the king, as agreed upon yesterday, when I detached Mabruki and Bilal from my men, gave
them letters and maps addressed to Petherick; and giving the officers a load of Mtende to pay
their hotel bills on the way, I gave them, at the same time, strict orders to keep by the Nile;
then, having dismissed them, I called on the king to make arrangements for Grant, and to complain
that my residence in Uganda was anything but cheerful, as my hut was a mile from the palace,
in an unhealthy place, where he kept his Arab visitors. It did not become my dignity to live
in houses appropriated to persons in the rank of servants, which I considered the ivory merchants
to be; and as I had come only to see him and the high officers of Uganda, not seeking for ivory
or slaves, I begged he would change my place of residence to the west end, when I also trusted
his officers would not be ashamed to visit me, as appeared to be the case at present. Silence
being the provoking resort of the king, when he did not know exactly what to say, he made no
answer to my appeal, but instead, he began a discourse on geography, and then desired me to
call upon his mother, N'yamasore, at her palace Masorisori, vulgarly called Soli Soli, for
she also required medicine; and, moreover, I was cautioned that for the future the Uganda court
etiquette required I should attend on the king two days in succession, and every third day
on his mother the queen-dowager, as such were their respective rights.

Till now, owing to the strict laws of the country, I had not been able to call upon anybody
but the king himself. I had not been able to send presents or bribes to any one, nor had any
one, except the cockaded pages, by the king's order, visited me; neither was anybody permitted
to sell me provisions, so that my men had to feed themselves by taking anything they chose
from certain gardens pointed out by the king's officers, or by seizing pombe or plantains which
they might find Waganda carrying towards the palace. This non-interventive order was part of
the royal policy, in order that the king might have the full fleecing of his visitors.

To call upon the queen-mother respectfully, as it was the opening visit, I too, besides the
medicine-chest, a present of eight brass and copper wire, thirty blue-egg beads, one bundle
of diminutive beads, and sixteen cubits of chintz, a small guard, and my throne of royal grass.
The palace to be visited lay half a mile beyond the king's, but the highroad to it was forbidden
me, as it is considered uncourteous to pass the king's gate without going in. So after winding
through back-gardens, the slums of Bandowaroga, I struck upon the highroad close to her majesty's,
where everything looked like the royal palace on a miniature scale. A large cleared space divided
the queen's residence from her Kamraviona's. The outer enclosures and courts were fenced with
tiger-grass; and the huts, though neither so numerous nor so large, were constructed after
the same fashion as the king's. Guards also kept the doors, on which large bells were hung
to give alarm, and officers in waiting watched the throne-rooms. All the huts were full of
women, save those kept as waiting-rooms; where drums and harmonicons were played for amusement.
On first entering, I was required to sit in a waiting-hut till my arrival was announced; but
that did not take long, as the queen was prepared to receive me; and being of a more affable
disposition than her son, she held rather a levee of amusement than a stiff court of show.
I entered the throne-hut as the gate of that court was thrown open, with my hat off, but umbrella
held over my head, and walked straight towards her till ordered to sit upon my bundle of grass.

Her majesty--fat, fair, and forty-five--was sitting, plainly garbed in mbugu, upon a carpet
spread upon the ground within a curtain of mbugu, her elbow resting on a pillow of the same
bark material; the only ornaments on her person being an abrus necklace, and a piece of mbugu
tied round her head, whilst a folding looking-glass, much the worse for wear, stood open by
her side. For a short while we sat at a distance, exchanging inquiring glances at one another,
when the women were dismissed, and a band of music, with a court full of Wakungu, was ordered
in to change the scene. I also got orders to draw near and sit fronting her within the hut.
Pombe, the best in Uganda, was then drunk by the queen, and handed to me and to all the high
officers about her, when she smoked her pipe, and bade me smoke mine. The musicians, dressed
in long-haired Usoga goat-skins, were now ordered to strike up, which they did, with their
bodies swaying or dancing like bears in a fair. Different drums were then beat, and I was asked
if I could distinguish their different tones.

The queen, full of mirth, now suddenly rose, leaving me sitting, whilst she went to another
hut, changed her mbugu for a deole, and came back again for us to admire her, which was no
sooner done to her heart's content, than a second time, by her order, the court was cleared,
and, when only three or four confidential Wakungu were left, she took up a small faggot of
well-trimmed sticks, and, selecting three, told me she had three complains. "This stick," she
says, "represents my stomach, which gives me much uneasiness; this second stick my liver, which
causes shooting pains all over my body; and this third one my heart, for I get constant dreams
at night about Sunna, my late husband, and they are not pleasant." The dreams and sleeplessness
I told her was a common widow's complaint, and could only be cured by her majesty making up
her mind to marry a second time; but before I could advise for the bodily complaints, it would
be necessary for me to see her tongue, feel her pulse, and perhaps, also, her sides. Hearing
this, the Wakungu said, "Oh, that can never be allowed without the sanction of the king"; but
the queen, rising in her seat, expressed her scorn at the idea to taking advice from a mere
stripling, and submitted herself for examination.

I then took out two pills, the powder of which was tasted by the Wakungu to prove that there
was no devilry in "the doctor," and gave orders for them to be eaten at night, restricting
her pombe and food until I saw her again. My game was now advancing, for I found through her
I should get the key to an influence that might bear on the king, and was much pleased to hear
her express herself delighted with me for everything I had done except stopping her grog, which,
naturally enough in this great pombe-drinking country, she said would be a very trying abstinence.

The doctoring over, her majesty expressed herself ready to inspect the honorarium I had brought
for her, and the articles were no sooner presented by Bombay and Nasib, with the usual formalities
of stroking to insure their purity, than she, boiling with pleasure, showed them all to her
officers, who declared, with a voice of most exquisite triumph, that she was indeed the most
favoured of queens. Then, in excellent good taste, after saying that nobody had ever given
her such treasures, she gave me, in return, a beautifully-worked pombe sucking-pipe, which
was acknowledged by every one to be the greatest honour she could pay me.

Not satisfied with this, she made me select, though against my desire, a number of sambo, called
here gundu, rings of giraffe hair wound round with thin iron or copper wire, and worn as anklets;
and crowned with all sundry pots of pombe, a cow, and a bundle of dried fish, of the description
given in the woodcut, called by my men Samaki Kambari. This business over, she begged me to
show her my picture-books, and was so amused with them that she ordered her sorceresses and
all the other women in again to inspect them with her. Then began a warm and complimentary
conversation, which ended by an inspection of my rings and al the contents of my pockets, as
well as of my watch, which she called Lubari--a term equivalent to a place of worship, the
object of worship itself, or the iron horn or magic pan. Still she said I had not yet satisfied
her; I must return again two days hence, for she like me much--excessively--she could not say
how much; but now the day was gone, I might go. With this queer kind of adieu she rose and
walked away, leaving me with my servants to carry the royal present home.

