"'Ask what he's doing, sir,' says my wife, quite amazed. Back comes the answer in a Jiffy--

"'C. R. Y. I. N. G.'

"This caused all the bystanders to laugh excep my pore Mary Hann, who pull'd a very sad face.

"The good-naterd feller presently said, 'he'd have another trile;' and what d'ye think was
the answer? I'm blest if it wasn't--

"'P. A. P.'

"He was eating pap! There's for you--there's a rogue for you--there's a March of Intaleck!
Mary Hann smiled now for the fust time. 'He'll sleep now,' says she. And she sat down with
a full hart.

*****

"If hever that good-naterd Shooperintendent comes to London, HE need never ask for his skore
at the 'Wheel of Fortune Otel,' I promise you--where me and my wife and James Hangelo now is;
and where only yesterday a gent came in and drew this pictur* of us in our bar.

     * This refers to an illustrated edition of the work.

"And if they go on breaking gages; and if the child, the most precious luggidge of the Henglishman,
is to be bundled about this year way, why it won't be for want of warning, both from Professor
Harris, the Commission, and from

"My dear Mr. Punch's obeajent servant,

"JEAMES PLUSH."

THE TREMENDOUS ADVENTURES OF MAJOR GAHAGAN.

CHAPTER I.

"TRUTH IS STRANGE, STRANGER THAN FICTION."

I think it but right that in making my appearance before the public I should at once acquaint
them with my titles and name. My card, as I leave it at the houses of the nobility, my friends,
is as follows:--

MAJOR GOLIAH O'GRADY GAHAGAN, H.E.I.C.S.,

Commanding Battalion of Irregular Horse,

AHMEDNUGGAR.

Seeing, I say, this simple visiting ticket, the world will avoid any of those awkward mistakes
as to my person, which have been so frequent of late. There has been no end to the blunders
regarding this humble title of mine, and the confusion thereby created. When I published my
volume of poems, for instance, the Morning Post newspaper remarked "that the Lyrics of the
Heart, by Miss Gahagan, may be ranked among the sweetest flowrets of the present spring season."
The Quarterly Review, commenting upon my Observations on the "Pons Asinorum" (4to. London,
1836), called me "Doctor Gahagan," and so on. It was time to put an end to these mistakes,
and I have taken the above simple remedy.

I was urged to it by a very exalted personage. Dining in August last at the palace of the T-lr-es
at Paris, the lovely young Duch-ss of Orl--ns (who, though she does not speak English, understands
it as well as I do,) said to me in the softest Teutonic, "Lieber Herr Major, haben sie den
Ahmednuggarischen-jager-battalion gelassen?" "Warum denn?" said I, quite astonished at her
R---l H-----ss's question. The P---cess then spoke of some trifle from my pen, which was simply
signed Goliah Gahagan.

There was, unluckily, a dead silence as H. R. H. put this question.

"Comment donc?" said H. M. Lo-is Ph-l-ppe, looking gravely at Count Mole; "le cher Major a
quitte l'armee! Nicolas donc sera maitre de l'Inde!" H. M---- and the Pr. M-n-ster pursued
their conversation in a low tone, and left me, as may be imagined in a dreadful state of confusion.
I blushed and stuttered, and murmured out a few incoherent words to explain--but it would not
do--I could not recover my equanimity during the course of the dinner and while endeavoring
to help an English Duke, my neighbor, to poulet a l'Austerlitz, fairly sent seven mushrooms
and three large greasy croutes over his whiskers and shirt-frill. Another laugh at my expense.
"Ah! M. le Major," said the Q---- of the B-lg--ns, archly, "vous n'aurez jamais votre brevet
de Colonel." Her M----y's joke will be better understood when I state that his Grace is the
brother of a Minister.

I am not at liberty to violate the sanctity of private life, by mentioning the names of the
parties concerned in this little anecdote. I only wish to have it understood that I am a gentleman,
and live at least in DECENT society. Verbum sat.

But to be serious. I am obliged always to write the name of Goliah in full, to distinguish
me from my brother, Gregory Gahagan, who was also a Major (in the King's service), and whom
I killed in a duel, as the public most likely knows. Poor Greg! a very trivial dispute was
the cause of our quarrel, which never would have originated but for the similarity of our names.
The circumstance was this: I had been lucky enough to render the Nawaub of Lucknow some trifling
service (in the notorious affair of Choprasjee Muckjee), and his Highness sent down a gold
toothpick-case directed to Captain G. Gahagan, which I of course thought was for me: my brother
madly claimed it; we fought, and the consequence was, that in about three minutes he received
a slash in the right side (cut 6), which effectually did his business:--he was a good swordsman
enough--I was THE BEST in the universe. The most ridiculous part of the affair is, that the
toothpick-case was his, after all--he had left it on the Nawaub's table at tiffin. I can't
conceive what madness prompted him to fight about such a paltry bauble; he had much better
have yielded it at once, when he saw I was determined to have it. From this slight specimen
of my adventures, the reader will perceive that my life has been one of no ordinary interest;
and, in fact, I may say that I have led a more remarkable life than any man in the service--I
have been at more pitched battles, led more forlorn hopes, had more success among the fair
sex, drunk harder, read more, and been a handsomer man than any officer now serving her Majesty.

When I at first went to India in 1802, I was a raw cornet of seventeen, with blazing red hair,
six feet four in height, athletic at all kinds of exercises, owing money to my tailor and everybody
else who would trust me, possessing an Irish brogue, and my full pay of 120L. a year. I need
not say that with all these advantages I did that which a number of clever fellows have done
before me--I fell in love, and proposed to marry immediately.

But how to overcome the difficulty?--It is true that I loved Julia Jowler--loved her to madness;
but her father intended her for a Member of Council at least, and not for a beggarly Irish
ensign. It was, however, my fate to make the passage to India (on board of the "Samuel Snob"
East Indiaman, Captain Duffy,) with this lovely creature, and my misfortune instantaneously
to fall in love with her. We were not out of the Channel before I adored her, worshipped the
deck which she trod upon, kissed a thousand times the cuddy-chair on which she used to sit.
The same madness fell on every man in the ship. The two mates fought about her at the Cape;
the surgeon, a sober, pious Scotchman, from disappointed affection, took so dreadfully to drinking
as to threaten spontaneous combustion; and old Colonel Lilywhite, carrying his wife and seven
daughters to Bengal, swore that he would have a divorce from Mrs. L., and made an attempt at
suicide; the captain himself told me, with tears in his eyes, that he hated his hitherto-adored
Mrs. Duffy, although he had had nineteen children by her.

We used to call her the witch--there was magic in her beauty and in her voice. I was spell-bound
when I looked at her, and stark staring mad when she looked at me! O lustrous black eyes!--O
glossy night-black ringlets!--O lips!--O dainty frocks of white muslin!--O tiny kid slippers!--though
old and gouty, Gahagan sees you still! I recollect, off Ascension, she looked at me in her
particular way one day at dinner, just as I happened to be blowing on a piece of scalding hot
green fat. I was stupefied at once--I thrust the entire morsel (about half a pound) into my
mouth. I made no attempt to swallow, or to masticate it, but left it there for many minutes,
burning, burning! I had no skin to my palate for seven weeks after, and lived on rice-water
during the rest of the voyage. The anecdote is trivial, but it shows the power of Julia Jowler
over me.

The writers of marine novels have so exhausted the subject of storms, shipwrecks, mutinies,
engagements, sea-sickness, and so forth, that (although I have experienced each of these in
many varieties) I think it quite unnecessary to recount such trifling adventures; suffice it
to say, that during our five months' trajet, my mad passion for Julia daily increased; so did
the captain's and the surgeon's; so did Colonel Lilywhite's; so did the doctor's, the mate's--that
of most part of the passengers, and a considerable number of the crew. For myself, I swore--ensign
as I was--I would win her for my wife; I vowed that I would make her glorious with my sword--that
as soon as I had made a favorable impression on my commanding officer (which I did not doubt
to create), I would lay open to him the state of my affections, and demand his daughter's hand.
With such sentimental outpourings did our voyage continue and conclude.

We landed at the Sunderbunds on a grilling hot day in December, 1802, and then for the moment
Julia and I separated. She was carried off to her papa's arms in a palanquin, surrounded by
at least forty hookahbadars; whilst the poor cornet, attended but by two dandies and a solitary
beasty (by which unnatural name these blackamoors are called), made his way humbly to join
the regiment at head-quarters.

The --th Regiment of Bengal Cavalry, then under the command of Lieut.-Colonel Julius Jowler,
C.B., was known throughout Asia and Europe by the proud title of the Bundelcund Invincibles--so
great was its character for bravery, so remarkable were its services in that delightful district
of India. Major Sir George Gutch was next in command, and Tom Thrupp, as kind a fellow as ever
ran a Mahratta through the body, was second Major. We were on the eve of that remarkable war
which was speedily to spread throughout the whole of India, to call forth the valor of a Wellesley,
and the indomitable gallantry of a Gahagan; which was illustrated by our victories at Ahmednuggar
(where I was the first over the barricade at the storming of the Pettah); at Argaum, where
I slew with my own sword twenty-three matchlock-men, and cut a dromedary in two; and by that
terrible day of Assaye, where Wellesley would have been beaten but for me--me alone: I headed
nineteen charges of cavalry, took (aided by only four men of my own troop) seventeen field-pieces,
killing the scoundrelly French artillerymen; on that day I had eleven elephants shot under
me, and carried away Scindiah's nose-ring with a pistol-ball. Wellesley is a Duke and a Marshal,
I but a simple Major of Irregulars. Such is fortune and war! But my feelings carry me away
from my narrative, which had better proceed with more order.

On arriving, I say, at our barracks at Dum Dum, I for the first time put on the beautiful uniform
of the Invincibles: a light blue swallow-tailed jacket with silver lace and wings, ornamented
with about 3,000 sugar-loaf buttons, rhubarb-colored leather inexpressibles (tights), and red
morocco boots with silver spurs and tassels, set off to admiration the handsome persons of
the officers of our corps. We wore powder in those days; and a regulation pigtail of seventeen
inches, a brass helmet surrounded by leopard-skin with a bearskin top and a horsetail feather,
gave the head a fierce and chivalrous appearance, which is far more easily imagined than described.

Attired in this magnificent costume, I first presented myself before Colonel Jowler. He was
habited in a manner precisely similar, but not being more than five feet in height, and weighing
at least fifteen stone, the dress he wore did not become him quite so much as slimmer and taller
men. Flanked by his tall Majors, Thrupp and Gutch, he looked like a stumpy skittle-ball between
two attenuated skittles. The plump little Colonel received me with vast cordiality, and I speedily
became a prime favorite with himself and the other officers of the corps. Jowler was the most
hospitable of men; and gratifying my appetite and my love together, I continually partook of
his dinners, and feasted on the sweet presence of Julia.

I can see now, what I would not and could not perceive in those early days, that this Miss
Jowler--on whom I had lavished my first and warmest love, whom I had endowed with all perfection
and purity--was no better than a little impudent flirt, who played with my feelings, because
during the monotony of a sea-voyage she had no other toy to play with; and who deserted others
for me, and me for others, just as her whim or her interest might guide her. She had not been
three weeks at head-quarters when half the regiment was in love with her. Each and all of the
candidates had some favor to boast of, or some encouraging hopes on which to build. It was
the scene of the "Samuel Snob" over again, only heightened in interest by a number of duels.
The following list will give the reader a notion of some of them:--

1. Cornet Gahagan . . Ensign Hicks, of the Sappers and Miners. Hicks received a ball in his
jaw, and was half choked by a quantity of carroty whisker forced down his throat with the ball.

2. Capt. Macgillicuddy, B.N.I., . . Cornet Gahagan. I was run through the body, but the sword
passed between the ribs, and injured me very slightly.

3. Capt. Macgillicuddy, B.N.I., . . Mr. Mulligatawny, B.C.S., Deputy-Assistant Vice Sub-Controller
of the Boggleywollah Indigo grounds, Ramgolly branch.

Macgillicuddy should have stuck to sword's-play, and he might have come off in his second duel
as well as in his first; as it was, the civilian placed a ball and a part of Mac's gold repeater
in his stomach. A remarkable circumstance attended this shot, an account of which I sent home
to the "Philosophical Transactions:" the surgeon had extracted the ball, and was going off,
thinking that all was well, when the gold repeater struck thirteen in poor Macgillicuddy's
abdomen. I suppose that the works must have been disarranged in some way by the bullet, for
the repeater was one of Barraud's, never known to fail before, and the circumstance occurred
at SEVEN o'clock.*

     * So admirable are the performances of these watches, which
     will stand in any climate, that I repeatedly heard poor
     Macgillicuddy relate the following fact.  The hours, as it
     is known, count in Italy from one to twenty-four: the day
     Mac landed at Naples his repeater rung the Italian hours,
     from one to twenty-four; as soon as he crossed the Alps it
     only sounded as usual.--G. O'G. G.

I could continue, almost ad infinitum, an account of the wars which this Helen occasioned,
but the above three specimens will, I should think, satisfy the peaceful reader. I delight
not in scenes of blood, heaven knows, but I was compelled in the course of a few weeks, and
for the sake of this one woman, to fight nine duels myself, and I know that four times as many
more took place concerning her.

I forgot to say that Jowler's wife was a half-caste woman, who had been born and bred entirely
in India, and whom the Colonel had married from the house of her mother, a native. There were
some singular rumors abroad regarding this latter lady's history: it was reported that she
was the daughter of a native Rajah, and had been carried off by a poor English subaltern in
Lord Clive's time. The young man was killed very soon after, and left his child with its mother.
The black Prince forgave his daughter and bequeathed to her a handsome sum of money. I suppose
that it was on this account that Jowler married Mrs. J., a creature who had not, I do believe,
a Christian name, or a single Christian quality: she was a hideous, bloated, yellow creature,
with a beard, black teeth, and red eyes: she was fat, lying, ugly, and stingy--she hated and
was hated by all the world, and by her jolly husband as devoutly as by any other. She did not
pass a month in the year with him, but spent most of her time with her native friends. I wonder
how she could have given birth to so lovely a creature as her daughter. This woman was of course
with the Colonel when Julia arrived, and the spice of the devil in her daughter's composition
was most carefully nourished and fed by her. If Julia had been a flirt before, she was a downright
jilt now; she set the whole cantonment by the ears; she made wives jealous and husbands miserable;
she caused all those duels of which I have discoursed already, and yet such was the fascination
of THE WITCH that I still thought her an angel. I made court to the nasty mother in order to
be near the daughter; and I listened untiringly to Jowler's interminable dull stories, because
I was occupied all the time in watching the graceful movements of Miss Julia.

But the trumpet of war was soon ringing in our ears; and on the battle-field Gahagan is a man!
The Bundelcund Invincibles received orders to march, and Jowler, Hector-like, donned his helmet
and prepared to part from his Andromache. And now arose his perplexity: what must be done with
his daughter, his Julia? He knew his wife's peculiarities of living, and did not much care
to trust his daughter to her keeping; but in vain he tried to find her an asylum among the
respectable ladies of his regiment. Lady Gutch offered to receive her, but would have nothing
to do with Mrs. Jowler; the surgeon's wife, Mrs. Sawbone, would have neither mother nor daughter;
there was no help for it, Julia and her mother must have a house together, and Jowler knew
that his wife would fill it with her odious blackamoor friends.

I could not, however, go forth satisfied to the campaign until I learned from Julia my fate.
I watched twenty opportunities to see her alone, and wandered about the Colonel's bungalow
as an informer does about a public-house, marking the incomings and the outgoings of the family,
and longing to seize the moment when Miss Jowler, unbiassed by her mother or her papa, might
listen, perhaps, to my eloquence, and melt at the tale of my love.

But it would not do--old Jowler seemed to have taken all of a sudden to such a fit of domesticity,
that there was no finding him out of doors, and his rhubarb-colored wife (I believe that her
skin gave the first idea of our regimental breeches), who before had been gadding ceaselessly
abroad, and poking her broad nose into every menage in the cantonment, stopped faithfully at
home with her spouse. My only chance was to beard the old couple in their den, and ask them
at once for their cub.

So I called one day at tiffin:--old Jowler was always happy to have my company at this meal;
it amused him, he said, to see me drink Hodgson's pale ale (I drank two hundred and thirty-four
dozen the first year I was in Bengal)--and it was no small piece of fun, certainly, to see
old Mrs. Jowler attack the currie-bhaut;--she was exactly the color of it, as I have had already
the honor to remark, and she swallowed the mixture with a gusto which was never equalled, except
by my poor friend Dando apropos d'huitres. She consumed the first three platefuls with a fork
and spoon, like a Christian; but as she warmed to her work, the old hag would throw away her
silver implements, and dragging the dishes towards her, go to work with her hands, flip the
rice into her mouth with her fingers, and stow away a quantity of eatables sufficient for a
sepoy company. But why do I diverge from the main point of my story?

Julia, then, Jowler, and Mrs. J. were at luncheon: the dear girl was in the act to sabler a
glass of Hodgson as I entered. "How do you do, Mr. Gagin?" said the old hag, leeringly. "Eat
a bit o' currie-bhaut,"--and she thrust the dish towards me, securing a heap as it passed.
"What! Gagy my boy, how do, how do?" said the fat Colonel. "What! run through the body?--got
well again--have some Hodgson--run through your body too!"--and at this, I may say, coarse
joke (alluding to the fact that in these hot climates the ale oozes out as it were from the
pores of the skin) old Jowler laughed: a host of swarthy chobdars, kitmatgars, sices, consomahs,
and bobbychies laughed too, as they provided me, unasked, with the grateful fluid. Swallowing
six tumblers of it, I paused nervously for a moment, and then said--

"Bobbachy, consomah, ballybaloo hoga."

The black ruffians took the hint and retired.

"Colonel and Mrs. Jowler," said I solemnly, "we are alone; and you, Miss Jowler, you are alone
too; that is--I mean--I take this opportunity to--(another glass of ale, if you please)--to
express, once for all, before departing on a dangerous campaign"--(Julia turned pale)--"before
entering, I say, upon a war which may stretch in the dust my high-raised hopes and me, to express
my hopes while life still remains to me, and to declare in the face of heaven, earth, and Colonel
Jowler, that I love you, Julia!" The Colonel, astonished, let fall a steel fork, which stuck
quivering for some minutes in the calf of my leg; but I heeded not the paltry interruption.
"Yes, by yon bright heaven," continued I, "I love you, Julia! I respect my commander, I esteem
your excellent and beauteous mother; tell me, before I leave you, if I may hope for a return
of my affection. Say that you love me, and I will do such deeds in this coming war as shall
make you proud of the name of your Gahagan."

The old woman, as I delivered these touching words, stared, snapped, and ground her teeth,
like an enraged monkey. Julia was now red, now white; the Colonel stretched forward, took the
fork out of the calf of my leg, wiped it, and then seized a bundle of letters which I had remarked
by his side.

"A cornet!" said he, in a voice choking with emotion; "a pitiful, beggarly Irish cornet aspire
to the hand of Julia Jowler! Gag, Gahagan, are you mad, or laughing at us? Look at these letters,
young man--at these letters, I say--one hundred and twenty-four epistles from every part of
India (not including one from the Governor-General, and six from his brother, Colonel Wellesley,)--one
hundred and twenty-four proposals for the hand of Miss Jowler! Cornet Gahagan," he continued,
"I wish to think well of you: you are the bravest, the most modest, and, perhaps, the handsomest
man in our corps; but you have not got a single rupee. You ask me for Julia, and you do not
possess even an anna!"--(Here the old rogue grinned, as if he had made a capital pun).--"No,
no," said he, waxing good-natured; "Gagy, my boy, it is nonsense! Julia, love, retire with
your mamma; this silly young gentleman will remain and smoke a pipe with me."

I took one; it was the bitterest chillum I ever smoked in my life.

*****

I am not going to give here an account of my military services; they will appear in my great
national autobiography, in forty volumes, which I am now preparing for the press. I was with
my regiment in all Wellesley's brilliant campaigns; then taking dawk, I travelled across the
country north-eastward, and had the honor of fighting by the side of Lord Lake at Laswaree,
Deeg, Furruckabad, Futtyghur, and Bhurtpore: but I will not boast of my actions--the military
man knows them, MY SOVEREIGN appreciates them. If asked who was the bravest man of the Indian
army, there is not an officer belonging to it who would not cry at once, GAHAGAN. The fact
is, I was desperate: I cared not for life, deprived of Julia Jowler.

With Julia's stony looks ever before my eyes, her father's stern refusal in my ears, I did
not care, at the close of the campaign, again to seek her company or to press my suit. We were
eighteen months on service, marching and countermarching, and fighting almost every other day:
to the world I did not seem altered; but the world only saw the face, and not the seared and
blighted heart within me. My valor, always desperate, now reached to a pitch of cruelty; I
tortured my grooms and grass-cutters for the most trifling offence or error,--I never in action
spared a man,--I sheared off three hundred and nine heads in the course of that single campaign.

Some influence, equally melancholy, seemed to have fallen upon poor old Jowler. About six months
after we had left Dum Dum, he received a parcel of letters from Benares (whither his wife had
retired with her daughter), and so deeply did they seem to weigh upon his spirits, that he
ordered eleven men of his regiment to be flogged within two days; but it was against the blacks
that he chiefly turned his wrath. Our fellows, in the heat and hurry of the campaign, were
in the habit of dealing rather roughly with their prisoners, to extract treasure from them:
they used to pull their nails out by the root, to boil them in kedgeree pots, to flog them
and dress their wounds with cayenne pepper, and so on. Jowler, when he heard of these proceedings,
which before had always justly exasperated him (he was a humane and kind little man), used
now to smile fiercely and say, "D--- the black scoundrels! Serve them right, serve them right!"

One day, about a couple of miles in advance of the column, I had been on a foraging-party with
a few dragoons, and was returning peaceably to camp, when of a sudden a troop of Mahrattas
burst on us from a neighboring mango-tope, in which they had been hidden: in an instant three
of my men's saddles were empty, and I was left with but seven more to make head against at
least thirty of these vagabond black horsemen. I never saw in my life a nobler figure than
the leader of the troop--mounted on a splendid black Arab: he was as tall, very nearly, as
myself; he wore a steel cap and a shirt of mail, and carried a beautiful French carbine, which
had already done execution upon two of my men. I saw that our only chance of safety lay in
the destruction of this man. I shouted to him in a voice of thunder (in the Hindustanee tongue
of course), "Stop, dog, if you dare, and encounter a man!"

In reply his lance came whirling in the air over my head, and mortally transfixed poor Foggarty
of ours, who was behind me. Grinding my teeth and swearing horribly, I drew that scimitar which
never yet failed its blow,* and rushed at the Indian. He came down at full gallop, his own
sword making ten thousand gleaming circles in the air, shrieking his cry of battle.

     * In my affair with Macgillicuddy, I was fool enough to go
     out with small-swords--miserable weapons only fit for
     tailors.--G. O'G. G.

The contest did not last an instant. With my first blow I cut off his sword-arm at the wrist;
my second I levelled at his head. I said that he wore a steel cap, with a gilt iron spike of
six inches, and a hood of chain mail. I rose in my stirrups and delivered "ST. GEORGE;" my
sword caught the spike exactly on the point, split it sheer in two, cut crashing through the
steel cap and hood, and was only stopped by a ruby which he wore in his back-plate. His head,
cut clean in two between the eyebrows and nostrils, even between the two front teeth, fell
one side on each shoulder, and he galloped on till his horse was stopped by my men, who were
not a little amused at the feat.

As I had expected, the remaining ruffians fled on seeing their leader's fate. I took home his
helmet by way of curiosity, and we made a single prisoner, who was instantly carried before
old Jowler.

We asked the prisoner the name of the leader of the troop; he said it was Chowder Loll.

"Chowder Loll!" shrieked Colonel Jowler. "O fate! thy hand is here!" He rushed wildly into
his tent--the next day applied for leave of absence. Gutch took the command of the regiment,
and I saw him no more for some time.

*****

As I had distinguished myself not a little during the war, General Lake sent me up with despatches
to Calcutta, where Lord Wellesley received me with the greatest distinction. Fancy my surprise,
on going to a ball at Government House, to meet my old friend Jowler; my trembling, blushing,
thrilling delight, when I saw Julia by his side!

Jowler seemed to blush too when he beheld me. I thought of my former passages with his daughter.
"Gagy my boy," says he, shaking hands, "glad to see you. Old friend, Julia--come to tiffin--Hodgson's
pale--brave fellow Gagy." Julia did not speak, but she turned ashy pale, and fixed upon me
her awful eyes! I fainted almost, and uttered some incoherent words. Julia took my hand, gazed
at me still, and said, "Come!" Need I say I went?

I will not go over the pale ale and currie-bhaut again; but this I know, that in half an hour
I was as much in love as I ever had been: and that in three weeks I--yes, I--was the accepted
lover of Julia! I did not pause to ask where were the one hundred and twenty-four offers? why
I, refused before, should be accepted now? I only felt that I loved her, and was happy!

*****

One night, one memorable night, I could not sleep, and, with a lover's pardonable passion,
wandered solitary through the city of palaces until I came to the house which contained my
Julia. I peeped into the compound--all was still; I looked into the veranda--all was dark,
except a light--yes, one light--and it was in Julia's chamber! My heart throbbed almost to
stilling. I would--I WOULD advance, if but to gaze upon her for a moment, and to bless her
as she slept. I DID look, I DID advance; and, O heaven! I saw a lamp burning, Mrs. Jow. in
a nightdress, with a very dark baby in her arms, and Julia looking tenderly at an ayah, who
was nursing another.

"Oh, mamma," said Julia, "what would that fool Gahagan say if he knew all?"

"HE DOES KNOW ALL!" shouted I, springing forward, and tearing down the tatties from the window.
Mrs. Jow. ran shrieking out of the room, Julia fainted, the cursed black children squalled,
and their d----d nurse fell on her knees, gabbling some infernal jargon of Hindustanee. Old
Jowler at this juncture entered with a candle and a drawn sword.

"Liar! scoundrel! deceiver!" shouted I. "Turn, ruffian, and defend yourself!" But old Jowler,
when he saw me, only whistled, looked at his lifeless daughter, and slowly left the room.

Why continue the tale? I need not now account for Jowler's gloom on receiving his letters from
Benares--for his exclamation upon the death of the Indian chief--for his desire to marry his
daughter: the woman I was wooing was no longer Miss Julia Jowler, she was Mrs. Chowder Loll!

CHAPTER II.

ALLYGHUR AND LASWAREE.

I sat down to write gravely and sadly, for (since the appearance of some of my adventures in
a monthly magazine) unprincipled men have endeavored to rob me of the only good I possess,
to question the statements that I make, and, themselves without a spark of honor or good feeling,
to steal from me that which is my sole wealth--my character as a teller of THE TRUTH.

The reader will understand that it is to the illiberal strictures of a profligate press I now
allude; among the London journalists, none (luckily for themselves) have dared to question
the veracity of my statements: they know me, and they know that I am IN LONDON. If I can use
the pen, I can also wield a more manly and terrible weapon, and would answer their contradictions
with my sword! No gold or gems adorn the hilt of that war-worn scimitar; but there is blood
upon the blade--the blood of the enemies of my country, and the maligners of my honest fame.
There are others, however--the disgrace of a disgraceful trade--who, borrowing from distance
a despicable courage, have ventured to assail me. The infamous editors of the Kelso Champion,
the Bungay Beacon, the Tipperary Argus, and the Stoke Pogis Sentinel, and other dastardly organs
of the provincial press, have, although differing in politics, agreed upon this one point,
and with a scoundrelly unanimity, vented a flood of abuse upon the revelations made by me.

They say that I have assailed private characters, and wilfully perverted history to blacken
the reputation of public men. I ask, was any one of these men in Bengal in the year 1803? Was
any single conductor of any one of these paltry prints ever in Bundelcund or the Rohilla country?
Does this EXQUISITE Tipperary scribe know the difference between Hurrygurrybang and Burrumtollah?
Not he! and because, forsooth, in those strange and distant lands strange circumstances have
taken place, it is insinuated that the relater is a liar: nay, that the very places themselves
have no existence but in my imagination. Fools!--but I will not waste my anger upon them, and
proceed to recount some other portions of my personal history.

It is, I presume, a fact which even THESE scribbling assassins will not venture to deny, that
before the commencement of the campaign against Scindiah, the English General formed a camp
at Kanouge on the Jumna, where he exercised that brilliant little army which was speedily to
perform such wonders in the Dooab. It will be as well to give a slight account of the causes
of a war which was speedily to rage through some of the fairest portions of the Indian continent.

Shah Allum, the son of Shah Lollum, the descendant by the female line of Nadir Shah (that celebrated
Toorkomaun adventurer, who had wellnigh hurled Bajazet and Selim the Second from the throne
of Bagdad)--Shah Allum, I say, although nominally the Emperor of Delhi, was in reality the
slave of the various warlike chieftains who lorded it by turns over the country and the sovereign,
until conquered and slain by some more successful rebel. Chowder Loll Masolgee, Zubberdust
Khan, Dowsunt Row Scindiah, and the celebrated Bobbachy Jung Bahawder, had held for a time
complete mastery in Delhi. The second of these, a ruthless Afghan soldier, had abruptly entered
the capital; nor was he ejected from it until he had seized upon the principal jewels, and
likewise put out the eyes of the last of the unfortunate family of Afrasiab. Scindiah came
to the rescue of the sightless Shah Allum, and though he destroyed his oppressor, only increased
his slavery; holding him in as painful a bondage as he had suffered under the tyrannous Afghan.

As long as these heroes were battling among themselves, or as long rather as it appeared that
they had any strength to fight a battle, the British Government, ever anxious to see its enemies
by the ears, by no means interfered in the contest. But the French Revolution broke out, and
a host of starving sans-culottes appeared among the various Indian States, seeking for military
service, and inflaming the minds of the various native princes against the British East India
Company. A number of these entered into Scindiah's ranks: one of them, Perron, was commander
of his army; and though that chief was as yet quite engaged in his hereditary quarrel with
Jeswunt Row Holkar, and never thought of an invasion of the British territory, the Company
all of a sudden discovered that Shah Allum, his sovereign, was shamefully ill-used, and determined
to re-establish the ancient splendor of his throne.

