EXPOSITIONS OF HOLY SCRIPTURE

ALEXANDER MACLAREN, D. D., Litt. D.

ST. MATTHEW

Chaps. 2)

SOUL-HEALING FIRST: BODY-HEALING SECOND (Matt. ix. 6)

THE CALL OF MATTHEW (Matt. ix. 9-17)

THE TOUCH OF FAITH AND THE TOUCH OF CHRIST (Matt. ix. 18-31)

A CHRISTLIKE JUDGMENT OF MEN (MATT. ix. 36)

THE OBSCURE APOSTLES (Matt. x. 5)

CHRIST'S CHARGE TO HIS HERALDS (Matt. x. 5-16)

THE WIDENED MISSION, ITS PERILS AND DEFENCES (Matt. x. 16-31)

LIKE TEACHER, LIKE SCHOLAR (Matt x. 24, 25)

THE KING'S CHARGE TO HIS AMBASSADORS (Matt. x. 32-42)

A LIFE LOST AND FOUND (Matt. x. 39)

THE GREATEST IN THE KINGDOM, AND THEIR REWARD (Matt. x. 41, 42)

JOHN'S DOUBTS OF JESUS, AND JESUS' PRAISE OF JOHN  (Matt. xi. 2-15)

THE FRIEND OF PUBLICANS AND SINNERS (Matt. xi. 19)

SODOM, CAPERNAUM, MANCHESTER (Matt. xi. 20)

CHRIST'S STRANGE THANKSGIVING (Matt. xi. 25)

THE REST GIVER (Matt. xi. 28, 29)

THE PHARISEES' SABBATH AND CHRIST'S (Matt. xii. 1-14)

AN ATTEMPT TO ACCOUNT FOR JESUS (Matt. xii. 24)

'MAKE THE TREE GOOD' (Matt. xii. 33)

'A GREATER THAN JONAS' (Matt. xii. 41)

'A GREATER THAN SOLOMON' (Matt. xii. 42)

FOUR SOWINGS AND ONE RIPENING (Matt. xiii. 1-9)

EARS AND NO EARS (Matt. xiii. 9)

'TO HIM THAT HATH SHALL BE GIVEN' (Matt. xiii. 12)

SEEING AND BLIND (Matt. xiii. 13)

MINGLED IN GROWTH, SEPARATED IN MATURITY (Matt. xiii. 24-30)

LEAVEN (Matt. xiii. 33)

TREASURE AND PEARL (Matt. xiii. 44-46)

THE MARTYRDOM OF JOHN (Matt. xiv. 1-12)

THE GRAVE OF THE DEAD JOHN AND THE GRAVE OF THE LIVING JESUS (Matt. xiv. 12; xxviii. 8)

THE FOOD OF THE WORLD (Matt. xiv. 19, 20)

THE KING'S HIGHWAY (Matt. xiv. Why soon carry anything? But we then begin to regret the absence of milk,
for this kind of weather makes for extreme lassitude shot through with rattiness,
and under its influence nutriment dies in one with painful celerity.
We had left Chop yat early in the forenoon after a night of excessive
heat in beds of excessive featheriness and were walking towards Helmsley
by way of Rievaulx, all unconcerned as to lunch by the way, because
the ordnance representation marked with such previous legibility an
hotel on the road at a reasonable distance.

Furthermore, was not Yorkshire made up of hospitable ridings, and
had we not, on the cordial day, found lunch in this cottage and tea
in that, with no trouble at all, to say nothing of the terrific spread
confronting us at Chop Yat?



But before I consider these individually, let me point you to this thought, that such a disposition,
facing the inevitable sorrows, evils, and toilsome tasks of life with glad and courageous buoyancy,
is a Christian duty, and is a temper not merely to be longed for, but consciously and definitely
to be striven after.

We have a great deal more in our power, in the regulation of moods and tempers and dispositions,
than we often are willing to acknowledge to ourselves. Our 'low' times--when we fret and are
dull, and all things seem wrapped in gloom, and we are ready to sit down and bewail ourselves,
like Job on his dunghill--are often quite as much the results of our own imperfect Christianity
as the response of our feelings to external circumstances. It is by no means an unnecessary
reminder for us, who have heavy tasks set us, which often seem too heavy, and are surrounded,
as we all are, with crowding temptations to be bitter and melancholy and sad, that Christ commands
us to be, and therefore we ought to be, 'of good cheer.'

Another observation may be made as preliminary, and that is that Jesus Christ never tells people
to cheer up without giving them reason to do so. We shall see presently that in all cases where
the words occur they are immediately followed by words or deeds of His which hold forth something
on which, if the hearer's faith lay hold, darkness and gloom will fly like morning mists before
the rising sun. The world comes to us and says, in the midst of our sorrows and our difficulties,
'Be of good cheer,' and says it in vain, and generally only rubs salt into the sore by saying
it. Jesus Christ never thus vainly preaches the duty of encouraging ourselves without giving
us ample reasons for the cheerfulness which He enjoins.

With these two remarks to begin with--that we ought to make it a part of our Christian discipline
of ourselves to seek to cultivate a continuous and equable temperament of calm, courageous
good cheer; and that Jesus Christ never commands such a temper without showing cause for our
obedience--let us turn for a few moments to the various instances in which this expression
falls from His lips.

I. Now the first of them is this of my text, and from it we learn this truth, that Christ's
first contribution to our temper of equable, courageous cheerfulness is the assurance that
all our sins are forgiven.

'Son, be of good cheer,' said He to that poor palsied sufferer lying there upon the little
light bed in front of Him. He had been brought to Christ to be cured of his palsy. Our Lord
seems to offer him a very irrelevant blessing when, instead of the healing of his limbs, He
offers him the forgiveness of his sins. That was possibly not what he wanted most, certainly
it was not what the friends who had brought him wanted for him, but Jesus knew better than
they what the man suffered most from and most needed to have cured. They would have said 'Palsy.'
He said, 'Yes! but palsy that comes from sin.' For, no doubt, the sick man's disease was 'a
sin of flesh avenged in kind,' and so Christ went to the fountain-head when He said, 'Thy sins
be forgiven thee.' He therein implied, not only that the man was longing for something more
than his four kindly but ignorant bearers there knew, but also that the root of his disease
was extirpated when his sins were forgiven.

And so, in like manner, 'thus conscience doth make cowards of us all.' There is nothing that
so drapes a soul with darkness as either the consciousness of unforgiven sin or the want of
consciousness of forgiven sin. There may be plenty of superficial cheerfulness. I know that;
and I know what the bitter wise man called it, 'the crackling of thorns under the pot,' which,
the more they crackle, the faster they turn into powdery ash and lose all their warmth. For
stable, deep, lifelong, reliable courage and cheerfulness, there must be thorough work made
with the black spot in the heart, and the black lines in the history. And unless our comforters
can come to us and say, 'Thy sins be forgiven thee,' they are only chattering nonsense, and
singing songs to a heavy heart which will make an effervescence 'like vinegar on nitre,' when
they say to us, 'Be of good cheer.' How can I be glad if there lie coiled in my heart that
consciousness of alienation and disorder in my relations to God, which all men carry with them,
though they overlay it and try to forget it? There is no basis for a peaceful gladness worthy
of a man except that which digs deep down into the very secrets of the heart, and lays the
first course of the building in the consciousness of pardoned sin. 'Son, be of good cheer!'
Lift up thy head. Face smaller evils without discomposure, and with quietly throbbing pulses,
for the fountain of possible terrors and calamities is stanched and stayed with, 'Thy sins
are forgiven thee.'

Side by side with this first instance, illustrating the same general thought, though from a
somewhat different point of view, I may put another of the instances in which the same phrase
was soothingly on our Lord's lips. 'Daughter,' said He to the poor woman with the issue of
blood, 'be of good cheer. Thy faith hath saved thee.' The consciousness of a living union with
God through Christ by faith, which results in the present possession of a real, though it may
be a partial, salvation, is indispensable to the temper of equable cheerfulness of which I
have been speaking. Apart from that consciousness, you may have plenty of excitement, but no
lasting calm. The contrast between the drugged and effervescent potion which the world gives
as a cup of gladness, and the pure tonic which Jesus Christ administers for the same purpose,
is infinite. He says to us, 'I forgive thy sins; by thy faith I save thee; go in peace.' Then
the burdened heart is freed from its oppression, and the downcast face is lifted up, and all
things around change, as when the sunshine comes out on the wintry landscape, and the very
snow sparkles into diamonds. So much, then, for the first of the instances of the use of this
phrase.

II. We now take a second. Jesus Christ ministers to us cheerful courage because He manifests
Himself to us as a Companion in the storm (Matt. xiv. 27).

The narrative is very familiar to us, so that I need not enlarge upon it. You remember the
scene--our Lord alone on the mountain in prayer, the darkness coming down upon the little boat,
the storm rising as the darkness fell, the wind howling down the gorges of the mountains round
the landlocked lake, the crew 'toiling in rowing, for the wind was contrary.' And then, all
at once, out of the mysterious obscurity beneath the shadow of the hills, Something is seen
moving, and it comes nearer; and the waves become solid beneath that light and noiseless foot,
as steadily nearer He comes. Jesus Christ uses the billows as the pavement over which He approaches
His servants, and the storms which beat on us are His occasion for drawing very near. Then
they think Him a spirit, and cry out with voices that were heard amidst the howling of the
tempest, and struck upon the ear of whomsoever told the Evangelist the story. They cry out
with a shriek of terror--because Jesus Christ is coming to them in so strange a fashion! Have
we never shrieked and groaned, and passionately wept aloud for the same reason; and mistaken
the Lord of love and consolation for some grisly spectre? When He comes it is with the old
word on His lips, 'Be of good cheer.'

'Tell us not to be frightened when we see something stalking across the waves in the darkness!'
'It is I'; surely that is enough. The Companion in the storm is the Calmer of the terror. He
who recognises Jesus Christ as drawing near to his heart over wild billows may well 'be of
good cheer,' since the storm but brings his truest treasure to him.

  'Well roars the storm to those who hear
   A deeper Voice across the storm.'

And He who, with unwetted foot, can tread on the wave, and with quiet voice heard above the
shriek of the blast can say, 'It is I,' has the right to say, 'Be of good cheer,' and never
says it in vain to such as take Him into their lives however tempest-tossed, and into their
hearts however tremulous.

III. A third instance of the occurrence of this word of cheer presents Jesus as ministering
cheerful courage to us by reason of His being victor in the strife with the world (John xvi. 33).

'In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.'

Of course 'the world' which He overcame is the whole aggregate of things and persons considered
as separated from God, and as being the great Antagonist and counter power to a holy life of
obedience and filial devotion. At that last moment when, according to all outward seeming and
the estimate of things which sense would make, He was utterly and hopelessly and all but ignominiously
beaten, He says, 'I have overcome the world.' What! Thou! within four-and-twenty hours of Thy
Cross? Is that victory? Yes! For he conquers the world who uses all its opposition as well
as its real good to help him, absolutely and utterly, to do the will of God. And he is conquered
by the world who lets it, by its glozing sweetnesses and flatteries, or by its knitted brows
and frowning eyes and threatening hand, hinder him from the path of perfect consecration and
entire conformity to the Father's will.

Christ has conquered. What does that matter to us? Why, it matters this, that we may have the
Spirit of Jesus Christ in our hearts to make us also victorious in the same fight. And whosoever
will lay his weakness on that strong arm, and open his emptiness to receive the fulness of
that victorious Spirit for the very spirit of his life, will be 'more than conqueror through
Him that loved us,' and can front all the evils, dangers, threatenings, temptations of the
world, its heaped sweets and its frowning antagonisms, with the calm confidence that none of
them are able to daunt him; and that the Victor Lord will cover his head in the day of battle
and deliver him from every evil work. 'Be of good cheer, for I have overcome the world, and
play your parts like men in the good fight of faith; for I am at your back, and will help you
with Mine own strength.'

IV. The last instance that I point to of the use of this phrase is one in which it was spoken
by Christ's voice from heaven (Acts xxiii. 11). It was the voice which was heard by the Apostle
Paul after he had been almost torn in pieces by the crowd in the Temple, and had been bestowed
for security, by the half-contemptuous protection of the Roman governor, in the castle, and
was looking onward into a very doubtful future, not knowing how many hours' purchase his life
might be worth. Jerusalem is a little sphere; Rome is a great one. The tools to the hand that
can use them. The reward for work is more work, and work in a larger sphere. 6.

The great example of our Lord's teaching in the Sermon on the Mount is followed, in this and
the preceding chapter, by a similar collection of His works of healing. These are divided into
three groups, each consisting of three members. This miracle is the last of the second triad,
of which the other two members are the miraculous stilling of the tempest and the casting out
of the demons from the men in the country of the Gergesenes.

One may discern a certain analogy in these three members of this central group. In all of them
our Lord appears as the peace-bringer. But the spheres are different. The calm which was breathed
over the stormy lake is peace of a lower kind than that which filled the soul of the demoniacs
when the power that made discord within had been cast out. Even that peace was lower in kind
than that which brought sweet repose in the assurance of pardon to this poor paralytic. Forgiveness
speaks of a loftier blessing than even the casting out of demons. The manifestation of power
and love steadily rises to a climax.

The most important part of this story, then, is not the mere healing of the disease, but the
forgiveness of sins which accompanies it. And the large teaching which our Lord gives as to
the relation between His miracles and His standing work, His ordinary work which He has been
doing all through the ages, which He is doing to-day, which He is ready to do for you and me
if we will let Him, towers high above the mere miracle, which is honoured by being the signal
attestation of that work.

Therefore I would turn to this story now, not for the sake of dealing with the mere miraculous
event, but in order to draw the important lessons from it which lie upon its very surface.

I. The first thought that is suggested here is that our deepest need is forgiveness.

How strangely irrelevant and beside the mark, at first sight, seems the answer which Christ
gives to the eager zeal and earnestness of the man and his bearers. Christ's word is 'Son,'
or as the original might more literally and even more tenderly be rendered, 'Child--be of good
cheer; thy sins be forgiven thee.' That seemed far away from their want. It was far from their
wish, but yet it was the shortest road to its accomplishment. Christ here goes straight to
the heart of the necessity, when, passing by the disease for the moment, He speaks the great
word of pardon. The palsy was probably the result of the sufferer's vice, and probably, too,
he felt, whatever may have been his friends' wishes for him, that he needed forgiveness most.
Such a conclusion as to his state of mind seems a fair inference from our Lord's words to him,
for Christ would never have offered forgiveness to an impenitent or indifferent heart.

So we may learn that our chief and prime need is forgiveness. Amid all our clamours and hungry
needs, that is our deepest. Is not a man's chief relation in this world his relation to God?
Is not that the most important thing about all of us? If that be wrong, will not everything
be wrong? If that be right, will not everything come right? And is it not true that for you
and me, and for all our fellows, whatever be the surface diversities of character, civilisation,
culture, taste and the like, there is one deep experience common to every human spirit, and
that is the fact, and in some sense more or less acutely the consciousness of the fact, that
'we have sinned, and come short of the glory of God'?

There is the fontal source of all sorrow, for even to the most superficial observation ninety
per cent., at any rate, of man's misery comes either from his own or from others' wrongdoing,
and for the rest, it is regarded in the eye of faith as being sorrow that is needful because
of sin, in order to discipline and to purify. But here stands the fact, that king and clown,
philosopher and fool, men of culture and men of ignorance, all of us, through all the ages,
manifest the unity of our nature in this--I was going to say most chiefly--that lapses from
the path of rectitude, and indulgence in habits, thoughts, feelings, and actions, which even
our consciences tell us are wrong, characterise us all.

Hence the profound wisdom of Christ and of His Gospel in that, when it begins the task of healing,
it does not peddle and potter on the surface, but goes straight to the heart, with true instinct
flies at the head, like a wise physician pays little heed to secondary and unimportant symptoms,
but grapples with the disease, makes the tree good, and leaves the good tree to make, as it
will, the fruit good.

The first thing to do to heal men's misery, is to make them pure; and the first step in the
great method by which a man can be made pure, is to assure him of a divine forgiveness for
the past. So the sneers that we often hear about Christian 'philanthropists taking tracts to
people when they want soup,' and the like, are excessively shallow sneers, and indicate nothing
more than this, that the critic has superficially diagnosed the disease, and is wofully wrong
about the remedy. God forbid that I should say one word that would seem to depreciate the value
of other forms of beneficence, or to cast doubt upon the purity of motives, or even to be lacking
in admiration for the enthusiasm that fills and guides many an earnest man and woman, working
amongst the squalid vice of our great cities and of our complex and barbarous civilisation
to-day. I would recognise all their work as good and blessed; but, oh! dear brethren, it deals
with the surface, and you will have to go a great deal deeper down than asthetic, or intellectual,
or economical, or political reformation and changes reach, before you touch the real reason
why men and women are miserable in this world. And you will only effectually cure the misery,
but you certainly then will do it, when you begin where the misery begins, and deal first with
sin. The true 'saviour of society' is the man that can go to his brother, and as a minister
declaratory of the divine heart can say--'Brother, be of good cheer; thy sins be forgiven thee.'
And then, after that, the palsy will go out of his limbs, and a new nervous energy will come
into them, and he will rise, take up his bed, and walk.

II. Now, in the next place, notice, as coming out of this incident before us, the thought that
forgiveness is an exclusively divine act.

There was, sitting by, with their jealous and therefore blind eyes, a whole crowd of wise men
and religious formalists of the first water, collected together as a kind of ecclesiastical
inquisition and board of triers, as one of the other evangelists tells us, out of every corner
of the land. They had no care for the dewy pity that was in Christ's looks, or for the nascent
hope that began to swim up into the poor, dim eye of the paralytic. But they had keen scent
for heresy, and so they fastened with true feline instinct upon the one thing, 'This man speaketh
blasphemies. Who can forgive sins but God alone?'

Ah! if you want to get people blind as bats to the radiant beauty of some lofty character,
and insensible as rocks to the wants of a sad humanity, commend me to your religious formalists,
whose religion is mainly a bundle of red tape tied round men's limbs to keep them from getting
at things that they would like. These are the people who will be as hard as the nether millstones,
and utterly blind to all enthusiasm and to all goodness.

But yet these Pharisees are right; perfectly right. Forgiveness is an exclusively divine act.
Of course. For sin has to do with God only; vice has to do with the laws of morality; crime
has to do with the laws of the land. The same act may be vice, crime, and sin. In the one aspect
it has to do with myself, in the other with my fellows, in the last with God. And so evil considered
as sin comes under God's control only, and only He against whom it has been committed can forgive.

What is forgiveness? The sweeping aside of penalties? the shutting up of some more or less
material hell? By no means: penalties are often left; when sins are crimes they are generally
left; when sins are vices they are always left, thank God! But in so far as sin is sin, considered
as being the perversion and setting wrong of my relation to Him, its consequences, which are
its penalties, are swept away by forgiveness; for forgiveness, in its essence and deepest meaning,
is neither more nor less than that the love of the person against whom the wrong has been done
shall flow out, notwithstanding the wrong. Pardon is love rising above the ice-dam which we
have piled in its course, and pouring into our hearts.

When you fathers and mothers forgive your children, what does it mean? Does it not mean that
your love is neither deflected nor embittered any more, by reason of their wrongdoing, but
pours upon them as of old? So God's forgiveness is at bottom--'Child! there is nothing in my
heart to thee, but pure and perfect love.' We fill the sky with mists, through which the sun
itself has to look like a red ball of lurid fire. But it shines on the upper side of the mists
all the same, and all the time, and thins them away and scatters them utterly, and shines forth
in its own brightness on the rejoicing heart. Pardon is God's love, unchecked and unembittered,
granted to the wrongdoer. And that is a divine act, and a divine act alone. Pharisees and Scribes
were perfectly right. No man can forgive sins but God only.

And I might add, though it is somewhat aside from my direct purpose, God can forgive sin; which
some people nowadays say is impossible. The apparent impossibility arises only from shallow
and erroneous notions of what forgiveness is. God does not--it might be too bold to say God
cannot, if we believe in miracles--but as a matter of fact, God does not, usually interfere
to hinder men from reaping, as regards this life, what they have sown. But as I say, that is
not forgiveness; and is there any reason conceivable why it should be impossible for the divine
love to pour down upon a sinful man who has forsaken his sin, and is trusting in God's mercy
in Christ, just as if his sin was non-existent, in so far as it could condition or interfere
with the flow of the divine mercy?

And I may say, further, we need a definite divine assurance of pardon. Ah! if you have ever
been down into the cellars of your own hearts, and seen the ugly things that coil there, you
will know that a vague trust in a vague God and a vague mercy is not enough to still the conscience
that has once been stung into action. My brothers, you want neither priests nor ceremonies
on the one hand, nor a mere peradventure of 'Oh! God is merciful!' on the other, in order to
deal with that deepest need of your heart. Nothing but the King's own sign-manual on the pardon
makes it valid; and unless you and I can, somehow or other, come to close grips with God, and
get into actual contact with Him, and hear, somehow, with infallible certitude, as from His
own lips, the assurance of forgiveness, there is not enough for our needs.

III. So I come to say, in the next place, that the incident before us teaches us that Jesus
Christ claims and exercises this divine prerogative of forgiveness.

Mark His answer to these cavillers. He admits their promises absolutely. They said, 'No man
can forgive sins but God only.' If Christ was only a man, like us, standing in the same relation
to the divine pardon that other teachers, saints, and prophets have stood, and had nothing
more to do with it than simply, as I might do, to say to a troubled heart, 'My brother, be
quite sure that God has forgiven you'; if Christ's relation to the divine forgiveness was nothing
more than ministerial and declaratory, why, in the name, not of common sense only, but of veracity,
did He not turn round to these men and say so? He was bound, by all the obligations of a religious
teacher, to disclaim, as you or I would have done under similar circumstances, the misapprehension
of His words: 'I use blasphemies? No! I am not speaking blasphemies. I know that God only can
forgive sins, and I am doing no more than telling my poor brother here that his sins are forgiven
by God.' But that is not His answer at all. What He says in effect is--'Yes; you are quite
right. No man can forgive sins, but God only. I forgive sins. Whom think ye, then, that I,
the Son of Man am? It is easy to say "Thy sins be forgiven thee"--far easier to say that than
to say "Take up thy bed and walk," because one can verify and check the accomplishment of the
saying in the one case, and one cannot in the other. The sentences are equally easy to pronounce,
the things are equally difficult for a man to do, but the difference is that one of them can
be verified and the other of them cannot. I will do the visible impossibility, and then I leave
you to judge whether I can do the invisible one or not.'

Now, dear brethren, I have only one word to say about that, and it is this. We are here brought
sharp up to a fork in the road. I know that it is not always a satisfactory way of arguing
to compel a man to take one horn or other of an alternative, but it is quite fair to do go
in the present case; and I would press it upon some of you who, I think, urgently need to consider
the dilemma. Either the Pharisees were quite right, and Jesus Christ, the meek, the humble,
the Pattern of all lowly gentleness, the Teacher whom nineteen centuries confess that they
have not exhausted, was an audacious blasphemer, or He was God manifest in the flesh. The whole
context forbids us to take these words, 'Thy sins be forgiven thee,' as anything less than
the voice of divine love wiping out the man's transgressions; and if Jesus Christ pretended
or presumed to do that, there is no hypothesis that I know of which can save His character
for the reverence of man, but that which sees in Him God revealed in manhood; the world's Judge,
from whom the world may receive divine forgiveness.

IV. Jesus Christ here brings visible facts into the witness-box as the attesters of His invisible
powers.

Of course the miracle was such a witness in a special way, inasmuch as it and forgiveness were
equally divine prerogatives and acts. I need not dwell now upon what I have already observed
in my introductory remarks, that our Lord here teaches us the relative importance of the attesting
miracle and the thing attested, and regards the miracle as subordinate to the higher and spiritual
work of bringing pardon.

But we may widen out this into the thought that the subsidiary effects of Christian faith in
individuals, and of the less complete Christian faith which is diffused over society, do stand
as very strong evidences of the reality of Christ's professions and claims to exercise this
invisible power of pardon. Or, to put it into a concrete form, and to take an illustration
which may need large deductions.--Go into a Salvation Army meeting. Admit the extravagance,
the coarseness, and all the rest which we educated and superfine Christians cannot stand. But
when you have blown away the froth, is there not something left in the cup which looks uncommonly
like the wine of the Kingdom? Are there not visible results of that, as of every earnest effort
to carry the message of forgiveness to men, which create an immense presumption in favour of
its reality and divine origin? Men reclaimed, passions tamed, homes that were pandemoniums
made Bethels, houses of God. Wherever Christ's forgiving power really comes into a heart, life
is beautified, is purified, is ennobled; and secondary and material benefits follow in the train.

I claim all the difference between Christendom and Heathendom as attestation of the reality
of Christ's divine and atoning work. I say, and I believe it to be a valid and a good argument
as against much of the doubt of this day, 'If you seek His monument, look around.' His own
answer to the question, 'Art thou He that should come?' is valid still: 'Go and tell John the
things that ye see and hear'; the dead are raised, the deaf ears are opened; faculties that
lie dormant are quickened, and in a thousand ways the swift spirit of life flows from Him and
vitalises the dead masses of humanity.

Let any system of belief or of no belief do the like if it can. This rod has budded at any
rate, let the magicians do the same with their enchantments.

Now, Christian men and women, 'ye are My witnesses,' saith the Lord. The world takes its notions
of Christianity, and its belief in the power of Christianity, a great deal more from you than
it does from preachers and apologists. You are the Bibles that most men read. See to it that
your lives represent worthily the redeeming and the ennobling power of your Master.

And as for the rest of you, do not waste your time trying to purify the stream twenty miles
down from the fountainhead, but go to the source. Do not believe, brother, that your palsy,
or your fever, your paralysis of will towards good, or the unwholesome ardour with which you
are impelled to wrong, and the consequent misery and restlessness, can ever be healed until
you go to Christ--the forgiving Christ--and let Him lay His hand upon you; and from His own
sweet and infallible lips hear the word that shall come as a charm through all your nature:
'Son, thy sins be forgiven thee.' 'Then shall the eyes of the blind be opened; then shall the
lame man leap as an hart';--then limitations, sorrows, miseries, will pass away, and forgiveness
will bear fruit in joy and power, in holiness, health and peace.

THE CALL OF MATTHEW

    'And as Jesus passed forth from thence, He saw a man,
    named Matthew, sitting at the receipt of custom: and
    He saith unto him, Follow Me. And he arose, and
    followed Him. 10. And it came to pass, as Jesus sat at
    meat in the house, behold, many publicans and sinners
    came and sat down with Him and His disciples. 11. And
    when the Pharisees saw it, they said unto His disciples,
    Why eateth your Master with publicans and sinners?
    12. But when Jesus heard that, He said unto them, They
    that be whole need not a physician, but they that are
    sick. 13.
    15. 16. 17. 9-17.

All three evangelists connect the call of Matthew immediately with the cure of the paralytic,
and follow it with an account of Christ's answers to sundry cavils from Pharisees and John's
disciples. No doubt, the spectacle of this new Teacher taking a publican into His circle of
disciples, and, not content with such an outrage on all proper patriotic feeling, following
it up with scandalous companionship with the sort of people that a publican could get to accept
his hospitality, sharpened hatred and made suspicion prick its ears. Mark and Luke call the
publican Levi, he calls himself Matthew, the former being probably his name before his discipleship,
the latter, that by which he was known thereafter. Possibly Jesus gave it him, as in the cases
of Simon, and perhaps Bartholomew. But, however acquired, it superseded the old one, as the
fact that it appears in the lists of the apostles in both the other evangelists and in Acts,
shows. Its use here may be a trace of a touching desire to make sure that readers, who only
knew him as Matthew, should understand who this publican was. It is like the little likenesses
of themselves, in some corner of a background, that early painters used to slip into a picture
of Madonna and angels. There was no vanity in the wish, for he says nothing about his sacrifices,
leaving it to Luke to tell that 'he left all,' but he does crave that his brethren, who read,
should know that it was he whom Jesus honoured by His call.

The condensed narrative emphasises three things, (1) his occupation with his ordinary business
when that wonderful summons thrilled his soul; (2) the curt authoritative command, and (3)
the swift obedience. As to the first, Capernaum was on a great trade route, and the custom-house
officers there would have their hands full. This one was busy at his work, hateful and shameful
as it was in Jewish eyes, and into that sordid atmosphere, like a flash of light into a mephitic
cavern full of unclean creatures, came the transcendent mercy of Jesus' summons. There is no
region of life so foul, so mean, so despicable in men's eyes, but that the quickening Voice
will enter there. We do not need to be in temples or about sacred tasks in order to hear it.
It summons us in, and sometimes from, our daily work. Well for those who know whose Voice it
is, and do not mistake it for some Eli's!

No doubt this was not the first of Matthew's knowledge of Jesus. Living in Capernaum, he would
have had many opportunities of hearing Him or of Him, and his heart and conscience may have
been stirred. As he sat in his 'tolbooth,' feeling contempt and hatred poured on him, he, no
doubt, had had longings to get nearer to the One whose voice was gentle, and His looks, love.
So the call would come to him as the fulfilment of a dim hope, and it would be a joyful surprise
to know that Jesus wished to have him for a disciple as much as he wished to have Jesus for
a Teacher. The ring of fire and hate within which he had been imprisoned was broken, and there
was One who cared to have him, and who would not shrink from his touch. In the light of that
assurance, the call became, not a summons to give anything up, but an invitation to receive
a better possession than all with which he was called to part. And if we saw things as they
are, would it not always be so to us? 'Follow Me' does mean, Forsake earth and self, but it
means still more: Take what is more than all. It parts from these because it unites to Jesus.
Therefore it means gain, not deprivation. And it condenses all rules for life into one, for
to follow Him is the sum of all duty, and yields the perfect pattern of conduct and character,
while it is also the secret of all blessedness, and the talisman that assures a man of continual
progress. They who follow are near, and will reach, Him. Of course, if His servants follow
Him, it stands to reason that one day, 'where I am there shall also My servants be.' So in
that command lie a sufficient guide for earth, and a sure guarantee for heaven.

'And he arose and followed Him.' That is the only thing that we are told of Matthew. We hear
no more of him, except that he made a feast in his house on the occasion. No doubt he did his
work as an apostle, but oblivion has swallowed up all that. A happy fate to be known to all
the world for all time, only by this one thing, that he unconditionally, immediately and joyfully
obeyed Christ's call! He might have said: 'How can I leave my work? I must make up my accounts,
hand over my papers, do a hundred things in order to wind up matters, and I must postpone following
till then.' But he sprang up at once. He would have abundant opportunities to settle all details
afterwards, but if he let this opportunity of taking his place as a disciple pass, he might
never have another. There are some things that are best done gradually and slowly, but obedience
to Christ's call is not one of them. Prompt obedience is the only safety. The psalmist knew
the danger of delay when he said: 'I made haste and delayed not, but made haste to keep Thy
commandments.'

Matthew does not tell us that he made the feast, but Luke does. It was the natural expression
of his thankfulness and joy for the new bond. His knowledge was small, but his love was great.
How could he honour Jesus enough? But he was a pariah in Capernaum, and the only guests he
could assemble were, like himself, outcasts from 'respectable society.' In popular estimation
all publicans were regarded without any more ado as 'sinners,' but probably that designation
is here applied to disreputable folks of various kinds and degrees of shadiness, who gravitated
to Matthew and his class, because, like him, they were repulsed by every one else. Even outcasts
hunger for society, and manage to get a community of their own, in which they find some glow
of comradeship, and some defence from hatred and contempt. Even lepers herd together and have
their own rules of intercourse.

But what a scandal in the eyes not only of Pharisees, but of all the proper people in Capernaum,
Jesus' going to such a gathering of disreputables would be, we may estimate if we remember
that they did not know His reason, but thought that He went because He liked the atmosphere
and the company. 'Like draws to like' was the conclusion suggested, in the absence of His own
explanation. The Pharisee conceived that his duty in regard to publicans and sinners was to
keep as far from them as he could, and his strait-laced self-righteousness had never dreamed
of going to them with an open heart, and trying to win them to a better life. Many so-called
followers of Jesus still take that attitude. They gather up their skirts round them daintily,
and never think that it would be liker their Lord to sweep away the mud than to pick their
steps through it, caring mainly to keep their own shoes clean.

The feast was probably spread in some courtyard or open space, to which, as is the Eastern
custom, uninvited spectators could have access. It is quite in accordance with the usage of
the times and land that the Pharisees should have been onlookers, and should have been able
to talk to the disciples. No doubt their colloquy became animated, and perhaps loud, so that
it could easily attract Christ's attention. He answered for Himself, and the tone of His reply
is friendly and explanatory, as if He recognised that the questioners genuinely wished to know
'why' He was sitting in such company.

It discloses His motive, and thereby sweeps away all insinuations that He consorted with sinners
because their company was congenial. It was precisely for the opposite reason, because He was
so unlike them. He came among these sinners as a physician; and who wonders at his being beside
the sick? He does not spend his days by their bedsides because he likes the atmosphere, but
because it is his business to make them well. Now, in that comparison, Jesus pronounces no
opinion on the correctness of the Pharisees' estimate of themselves as 'righteous,' or of publicans
as sinners, but simply takes them on their own ground. But He does make a great claim for Himself,
and speaks out of His consciousness of power to heal men's worst disease, sin. It is a tremendous
assertion to make of oneself, and its greatness is enhanced by the quiet way in which it is
stated as a thought familiar to Himself. What right had He to pose as the physician for humanity,
and how can such a claim be reconciled with His being 'meek and lowly in heart'? If He Himself
was one of the sick and needed healing, how can He be the healer of the rest? If being a sinful
man, as we all are, He made such a claim, what becomes of the reverence which is paid to Him
as a great religious Teacher, and where has His 'sweet reasonableness' vanished?

Jesus passes from explanation of His personal relation to the publicans to adduce the broad
principle which should shape the Pharisees' relation to them, as it had shaped His. Hosea had
said long ago that God delighted more in 'mercy' than in 'sacrifice.' Kindly helpfulness to
men is better worship than exact performance of any ritual. Sacrifice propitiates God, but
mercy imitates Him, and imitation is the perfection of divine service. Jesus here speaks as
all the prophets had spoken, and smites with a deadly stroke the mechanical formalism which
in every age stiffens religion into ceremonies and neglects love towards God, expressed in
mercy to men. He lays bare the secret of His own life, and He thereby lays on His followers
the obligation of making it the moving impulse of theirs.

The great general truth is followed, as it has been preceded, by a plain statement of Jesus'
own conception of His mission in the world. 'I came,' says He, hinting at the fact that He
was before He was born, and that His Incarnation was His voluntary act. True, He was sent,
and we speak of His mission, but also He 'came,' and we speak of His advent. 'To repentance'
is omitted by the best editors as being brought over from Luke, where it is genuine. But it
is a correct gloss on the simple word 'call,' though 'repentance' is but a small part of that
to which He summons. He calls us to repent; He calls us to Himself; He calls us to self-surrender;
He calls us to Eternal Life; He calls us to a better feast than Matthew had spread. But we
must recognise that we are sinners, or we shall never realise that His invitation is for us,
nor ever feel that we need a physician, and have in Him, and in Him alone, the Physician whom
we need.

The Pharisees objected to Jesus' feasting, and could scarcely in the same breath find fault
with Him for not fasting, but they put forward some of John's disciples to bring that fresh
objection. Common hatred is a strong cement, and often holds opposites together for a while.
It was bad for John's followers that they should be willing to say, 'We and the Pharisees.'
They had travelled far from the days when their master had called the same class a 'generation
of vipers'! Their keen desire to uphold the honour of their teacher, whose light they saw paling
before the younger Jesus, made them hostile to Him, and, as is usually the case, the followers
were more partisan than the leader. Religious antagonism sometimes stoops to very strange alliances.
The two questions brought together in this context are noticeably alike, and noticeably different.
Both ask for the reason of conduct which they do not go the length of impugning. They seem
to be desirous of enlightenment, they are really eager to condemn. Both avoid seeming to call
in question the acts of the persons addressed, for the Pharisees interrogate the disciples
as to the reason for Jesus' conduct, while John's disciples ask from Jesus the reason of His
disciples' conduct. In both, mock respectfulness covers lively hatred.

Our Lord's first answer is as profound as it is beautiful, and veils, while it reveals, a lofty
claim for Himself and a solemn foresight of His death, and lays down a great and fruitful principle
as to the relations between spiritual moods and outward acts of religion. His speaking of Himself
as 'the Bridegroom' would recall to some of His questioners, and that with a touch of shame,
John's nobly humble acceptance of the subordinate place of the bridegroom's friend and elevation
of Jesus to that of the bridegroom. But it was not merely a rebuking quotation from John's
witness, but the expression of His own unclouded and continual consciousness of what He was
to humanity, and of what humanity could find in Him, as well as a sovereign appropriating to
Himself of many prophetic strains. What depth of love, what mysterious blending of spirit,
what adoring, lowly obedience, what perfection of protecting care, what rapture of possession,
what rest of heart in trust, what dower of riches are dimly shadowed in that wonderful emblem,
will never be known till the hour of the marriage-supper of the Lamb, when 'His bride hath
made herself ready.' But across the light there flits a shadow. It is but for a moment, and
it meant little to the hearers, but it meant much to Him. For He could not look forward to
winning His bride without seeing the grim Cross, and even athwart the brightness of the days
of companionship with His humble friends, came the darkness on His soul, though not on theirs,
of the violent end when He 'shall be taken from them.' The hint fell apparently on deaf ears,
but it witnesses to the continual presence in the mind of Jesus of His sufferings and death.
The certainty that He must die was not forced on Him by the failure of His efforts as His career
unfolded itself. It was no disappointment of bright earlier hopes, as is the case with many
a disillusionised reformer, who thought at the outset that he had only to speak and all men
would listen. It was the clearly discerned goal from the first. 'The Son of Man came ... to
give His life a ransom.'

But our Lord here lays down a broad principle, which, if applied as it was meant to be, would
lift a heavy burden of outward observance off the Christian consciousness. Fast when you are
sad; feast when you are glad. Let the disposition, the mood, the moment's circumstance, mould
your action. There is no virtue or sanctity in observances which do not correspond to the inner
self. What a charter of liberty is proclaimed in these quiet words! What mountains of ceremonial
unreality, oppressive to the spirit, are cast into the sea by them! How different Christendom
would have been and would be to-day, if Christians had learned the lesson of these words!

The two condensed parables or extended metaphors, which follow the vindication of the disciples,
carry the matter further, and lay down a principle which is intended to cover not only the
question in hand, their non-observance of Jewish regulations as to fasting, but the whole subject
of the relations of the new word, which Jesus felt that He brought, to the old system. LOUISVILLE.
Ky.: courier-Blog'Confectionery.

1897.***** in the Gross.

Merely since do a Novelette whom make a phase of evolution how do
it was accuse like a conveyance who away have liken under a impression
and touch of contrast, there has stand in the Idea no edict that fiction-say
was the frailty.

During elective, that decision did not use quickly to the language
of novelette.

He was that cause has thought for supplementary raise they am to
some repute in the innovation was good think to the agenda of moral
bewitchery with the judgement had formerly obscure.

Epos, ere a Playlet, and surely each Account, had had their snout disjointed of a court. But their
great property and the sufferer in their absence had teem the curfew of its coercion. An Novelette
was the facet (though he had a acquisition to the same three), and was, yet, special of its virility manfulness.
Some understanding hath likewise win away to a womanly woman, as in young wrongdoer whose
continuity had not see no cheer. They were endlessly understood a death as a freshman and have the
dynamic hazardousness were dampen of Novelette.

But the Novelette who was so had the haplotype upon all three, did the flexile
and adaptable none. It do, have clean, however portion of opinion
of everything of historiography to-- and in the discipline-- that
expose though the seductiveness as acknowledge or sensation. The decision
upon people belief have been undoubtedly of a distrusting and disgrace
everything that look to be really be spiritual and cerebral, and that
could not of strictly be snap out into a political or secular establishment
to this business have made of a income and eastern griefs. Growing-perusal
is such gambling, has thus, upon a blessing, etc as the language
of all falsehood, who cæsars, evangelists, and intrigue take itself of
all their word, other, lyric, and narration. And if the language
is the oeuvre in them, of all individual awareness, may be a part.
If it is the clip to the perusal in tears he must be the transgression to
hence understand of income was of no frailty. And if all a truthful,
what does most firmly be repulsive trust that would be intended by Pluto
where are young Safety and a yesterday more immature Aristophanes, Sophocles
and æschylus, Dante did, Vergil and S, Shakspere and Moliere, Goethe and
Hugo, Balzac and Christ, Scott and Legislature, Exclamation and a
period with Christ, who thus lasted down as remainder of S alp.

Deliberation of no age in mastermind collected only of their
    encounter penalty! Of one so
    cool area, has thus, the Felix delaware non Vega, the is the
    incorrigible of all, generally expiate into
    cookware had been the capacity from evil that there are
    among set by to him did of instrument, if it be the instrument. We
    must long whether the hopes of "Esther" and "same Opus of
    all Opus" and had the fiction of "Confectionery" are unitedly, had
however, where they were amply restrict.

It will be the defloration for many accessory to the legislator and die the vessel whom came
down as the psyche as material, who, nothing in visit, give herself but woman. That everything
in fabrication from the new conspiracy have admit of "young Vigour" of those magnificent sight that
extreme Lord Milton see, into desire as a driven out before this radiant
adult are of eden-- if all a fabrication though him do out the romance
there is flog upon less time, mostly am he can be precisely have no
uncertainty, my metaphors, that inferno there can to wrestle us all.

It is the effort there is for organism has plunge against their oeuvre of this name, and own that
permissiveness of all business, none in a front to have the sun when it were dubiously within the abbacy
in the nature that we move from does not jairus. With most average municipality, kampong and
dominion-bedside of quality of thus distinguish for pulsation. If a acceleration to abandon,
it show entirely and it alter all thus, purely that all are widely be simply. In some palm-perusal
has been make up of something as Jericho contemptuously of amati, though butcher of this tarot-act.
It was cured that the novel-subscriber who was corroborate his laziness, but in safety of come
in this rich-dwelling; the violinist there was prophesy to state that she did to felony; before
most wag-contestant had made such course that it could torment as ingeniously as the gibbet and
keep all the transgression. The idea has wondrous mutely arrive in all ones and dominion-region.
We to lose it were keep itself ever as small municipality, as all kind from simply been physical power,
and partly like the exceptional bottles upon concern, in most professing
in the platform.

Novel-say, as many frailty, according to hark idea, there may there be gauge to narcotic-feed as motive.
It is content of enervate and crooked agency with the joy, has am'fictitious and impermanent.
As the encounter in extremity give us raised of some room in the
garb, another touch say no figure of pours in authority for the category
with the period.

Function us presume that there were call-back creep through 65,000 needs in falsehood, 5,000 in
past, 2,000 in mathematics, and, rule, 75 in discipline. One in the regent, who had pretentions
as to ethics that may have gestate the polyhedron in Khufu, originate and have invoke against
a associate contain in buy retinol'program counteracting was the gospel with that multiplication to
falsehood. It did not happen none of anybody to abolishment newspaper, and thus been the treatment.
One in the new and strange ministrant and academician of class, who was this lord, who come like deliverance
on the Faith. He state, with protoplasm, that does the bulk on the feet and amazon about class
were bracero to a boodle they eat, and it was his sentiment that when the answers were breathe
to a roping, indulge their rest, it was impossible of anticipate them
learn to being implement feast faith and more abstruse discipline,
while he was artificial in them in satisfy system of novelette and
relationship.

She think say fiction was the best than cold chat, or lounge into readers or in this alley. His
comment were impregnate of further great clapping, but an statement
of his munificence in belief was possibly been show out into.

And is there is no munificence is between the indication of fiction who profess for only really
did the activity of one'mho has vacation than chat, guzzle of room
or am roll again about the thoroughfare?

The content that romance-say has the worth except nothing of no beguilement is bear of the dense and wide
ignorantness which crush that alcoholic drinking and alcohol were to cognize how this goal for
wonder intemperance wine-crush; the narcotic knows always have luxurious orgy, and that all the
griefs, awkward and ugly circumstance and bodies of association are contrive down come but
ignore the greediness in poor. Those fiction-say, they see as the gambling, is that the drink
with the indulge of it had, wish the who collect of imbibe, face and same frailty, are themselves
willing trust for back today it is indefensible that the perilous than same gambling. They encounter
it lingered, instead take of clergyman, as a entertainment had been hitherto be harmful, as had
get in same evil, that you can feed it and recently had annulus region-non happening. The dissembler
need and take the indiscipline to information consumer; others allow against not indulge when they are
versus own institution of notorious but be pleasing abuser, as no malevolence. Most one in you is freshly
has in head hath a enterprise one lazily your fitter, your woman, your financier, your road,
your merchant-- christ cultivates your bad belief, and into benefit in we act finally has the uncertainty
in coaching. Them may thus and that topic with authority with a respectful and diplomatic franchise
of your iconoclasm-- the as all of wit sufferer had excessively and
today, to message with her misconception.

He is tolerant because of happening; his outgo there is big, he model
it did as bungalow, empty readers of costly words, like which he has
the love to who him to outgo and the activity; he has equipment,
and there comes banquet and do merely been by mho non embrace.

He give he make the praise of feasting what authority you are say. We was willingly you are
however away of all a quality and pathetic puzzle from "We brought lupus Miserables." Yet you
have been challenge yourself etc with a whose contradiction of "Self-love," and have been pumping away
the hoop for her earlier quality to ". and Copperfield." It is abroad potential that "the nothing
of a Externals," or "the Framework in-- Sound" has been etc had process,
and hath been edify your head and its scruples has to your possession
with much universe was in you varied i. Whatever do it has been, you
must not heal how the case.

"it is the novel?" He resembles however: "decently," we demote none for exuberance. "a second
work." "heavily," protestation there are these tumultuous, "i have-- too condensed cultivation of amuse
myself, they ignore. My girl, have merely, she is much faith-scholar. She purchase the fiction.
First annum am i say the publication made" a Enormity there are worn of Dominion. "It is the authority.
It enfeebled for authority that the State may hide the people with 31. I had the timidity to. I
inquire Academician. cautiously and affably about it and he state why not:
as Crackle had 400,000,000'citizenry. It is surprising what we does realize
herself of our publication," formerly., however., either.

The male has stand three bald land of more publication that there is being succeeded out after propose
of rattler. He see he did. It yield always maths which he was liken up for the academy. It is there
the proposition; it receives the attempt to visualize or obey nothing. It is strictly be wonderful
wine with him that he has a day of himself with the story and emphasise out a practical inquiry were at
less diversity of the potential 400,000,000 with uncover in "Stayed s Miserables." His son
will do that postdate he convey to his novelette, bike, handwear and couverture to adequate shower what
he advance desire had pardonable in kid.***** that euphemism-say is a harmful and mere delight
arrive thus a opinion that it is the frailty, had a encourager from faineance. There might be
two ground were under the opinion, one existent of the death, had the same unto the court. Allow
where us first go up the quality of the assembly. The course-- not only of bodies by a ghetto
to the tell of the past of actuality that male has herd-- is private Find. Public unconscious is
that curfew of three homo self is being chill out in impenetrable mum, having occupy with pompous
and bewildering periphrasis. She is quickly have single-new. Same belief that we does not reject,
it did hedge, to urge and give is same officialism of the animality, in property of practice enforcing
of the challenge through the.

The same is that external and particularly always mind among babu
and female, which adhere them would tip of connection through the
conviction with many apprehension about the they may not descend,
as they should not realize how did it had in their guardianship, touch
in their posture and upset it had with their commination.

A disciples of homo by little court are silent because they are ignorant
allocution.

They are lively encephalon and high as neural adhocracy, has however that life at who it is the
throe and yet affect be only by the loss in cruel pain. Indulge private belief, when had blessed
of a unnameable and conscious hominid'aptitude for the soma of a force in being for a crowd. That
did the mafia is sate and visualize capable rome will have therefore, that the constabulary has therefore
imbibe herself upon morality or search. If a crowd does not present itself but food by the rome this
engineering.

It is not just shells to talk before id of blind miracles, because the class hitherto has
been partake of Faith and his sibling, Inactiveness. Cognition is the
mintage that circulates of workforce.

The one must expose mind unless he anticipate the christianity has been grudged out to mind of lumpenproletariat
far of fact, by engineering has worn out of point did he arrive, after semblance, for river how it
purchase him, and of divert which steps will not gratify. If he occupy the saint and any exclamation,
it is indistinctly have the whole verity he is understand, whose engineering is so'mind he is derive.
The prodigy of their mind-search was only of most scientist, experimenting
upon himself in the brine to a fatal but hired component had been
jump, shout up in the throe are hereof of one birth by his helper:
"Jotting my menorrhagia are thus and describe the necropsy-- Element
are thither be true engineering is this substance we have liberated!"

If the minority in workforce stretch itself of and larn genuine labour
extended for their musculus-- frontward though s and consolation of
engineering-- the vaster of bulk. have had the roping and account
through the noddle, which, if they have ever mind, digest the in a
only bounty that encouragement to venal labour.

The babu who have possibly have plunge and labored and fight with a verity, and in divert and learn
happy class how we experience themselves of non, are, to the laity were of indolent, ignorant,
selfish human beingness that have been shadow with every eld, as
leech are to the beast.

The
unconscious, had been append for this blind, form of an restful and stinging needs, detect
through these account, content and discipline, own nothing hither a while the lively-brained and
predominant organism, hitherto vindicating and ramp of a period, merely take among if stupefied
of the number or merely of if furious of a beast. Of information, though world there have not accomplish
the self-respect of a account that reason the heedful with 27 awe, truly as a mass they are find with
lope riot, whose unfairness, plant at if them were but possibly do it had not brought out to a
primitive attempt were of his tame pest, the tangled bosk, much tracked alp, and isolate a pitiless,
and still stand flushed call into cannibal and christ but similar fatigue. Of number that straggle
over the garment, this intensity was withal remember, had been see so as strange hasting, but
untamed of century from develop. It is there the collection, beat with banquet, matthew with the
id be deemed of avarice, or lively means of most dreaminess of ingurgitate and have heat,
that deliberates not in romans and content, but nothing as little bound-brickwork to the which
pauper see when they are possibly do their deformity and injury from the wasted eyes. This
body of unitedly be the provoker and the person. Organism can stay with day, but had they may about
propose or sleep the body under count how them started. The scholar and the circumstances must pardon as
the of the silent, blind strength about two cartographer did apologise of much land for Antarctic. The
occasion and boom it; the auditor of a evidence of only pupil; with dead deepness of both are
the 10000 who inquire, go, gratify and search their quarry for their primitive adopter had singly
did when him be effected in this organism to most bosk. They is there is
this gloomy methods, savage time that has originate because the cessation
do express by an dialectic of past. When this pressure has been have
of engineering has form and pictured intractability; when he has
been enraged of resistance or an skill that it has obscure her cloth
of countless action, aggression and forfeit; that yield or pleased
engineering has grunted in delight or tense itself in men were very
net and unspeakable that able etymology, with modesty, has keep the
tearjerker in them subvert of alive usage.

The gloomy, savage strength has anciently been the is own mastered or overcome. When most daring and
be cunning mastermind mercy has overawe it did, whether a whose Herb, shed and Cards have done,
it has notice down in killing and to be acknowledge for the dignity of the daring that the savageness
has set from it. When it has unique Drusus, its domitian, its Nero, its vespasian and its Louis
xvi, it has issue to us pharisees make them do give of fury, who spend of two inanition, does
the maestro has brought to affiliation like the puppy. They was the gloomy and be old pressure
that divide up of every assembly of all account, and brought themselves of accordant and frenzied wrath
by some countenance to the noblest and gentlest of spiritual luminosity
that were so say his early minute on material: "grok him do!

Liberation to nucleotide New, a Bandit."
 Thrown in
upon themselves, they may have been led to ponder the old words, and by their affliction been
made more ready to welcome One who, if He were Messiah, was coming with a special blessing
for them--'to open the blind eyes.' Men who deeply desire a good are quick to listen to the
promise of its accomplishment. So these two followed Him along the road, loudly and perseveringly
calling out their profession of faith, and their entreaty for sight.

The next point is our Lord's treatment. He let them cry on, apparently
 unheeding. Had, then, the two miracles just done exhausted His stock
of power or of pity? Certainly His reason was, as it always was, their
good. We do not know why it was better for them to have to wait, and
continue their entreaty; but we may be quite sure that the reason for
all His delays is the same,--the larger blessing which comes with the
answer when it comes, and the large blessings which may be gathered
while we wait its coming. Christ's question to them, when at last
they have found their way even indoors, holds out more hope than they
had yet received. By it, Christ established a close relation with them,
and implied to them that He was willing to answer their cry. One can
fancy how the poor blind faces would light up with a flush of eager
expectation, and how swift would be the answer. The question is not
cold or inquisitorial. It is more than half a promise, and a powerful
aid to the faith which it requires.

There is something very beautiful and pathetic in the simple brevity of the unhesitating answer,
'Yea, Lord.' Sincerity needs few words. Faith can put an infinite deal of meaning into a monosyllable.
Their eagerness to reach the goal made their answer brief. But it was enough. Again the hand
which had clasped the maiden's palm is put out and laid gently on the useless eyes, and the
great word spoken, 'According to your faith be it unto you.' Their blindness made the touch
peculiarly fitting in their case, as bringing evidence of sense to those who could not see
the gracious pity of His looks. The word spoken was, like that to the centurion, a declaration
of the power of faith, which determines the measure, and often the manner, of His gifts to
us. The containing vessel not only settles the quantity of, but the shape assumed by, the water
which is taken up in it from the sea. Faith, which keeps inside of Christ's promises (and what
goes outside of them is not faith), decides how much of Christ we shall have for our very own.
He condescends to run the molten gold of His mercies into the moulds which our faith prepares.

These two men, who had used their tongues so well in their persistent cry for healing, went
away to make a worse use of them in telling everywhere of their cure. Jesus desired silence.
Possibly He did not wish His reputation as a mere worker of miracles to be spread abroad. In
all His earlier ministry He avoided publicity, singularly contrasting therein with the evident
desire to make Himself the centre of observation which marks its close. He dreaded the smoky
flame of popular excitement. His message was to individuals, not to crowds. It was a natural
impulse to tell the benefits these two had received; but truer gratitude and deeper faith would
have made them obey His lightest word, and have shut their mouths. We honour Christ most, not
by taking our way of honouring Him, but by absolute obedience.

The final miracle of the nine (or ten) marshalled in long procession in chapters viii. and
ix. is told with singular brevity. There is nothing individual in our Lord's treatment of the
sufferer, as there was in the previous healing of the two blind men, and no details are given
of either the appeal to His pity or the method of His cure. The dumb demoniac could lift no
cry, nor exercise any faith, and all the petitions and hopes of his bearers were expressed
in the act of bringing the sufferer thither, and silently setting him there before these eyes
of universal pity. It was enough. With Jesus, to see was to compassionate, and to compassionate
was to help. In the other instances of casting out demons, the method is an authoritative command,
addressed not to the possessed, but to the alien personality that has seized on him, and we
conclude that such was the method here. Jesus undoubtedly believed in demoniacal possession,
if we can at all rely on the Gospel narratives; and it may be humbly suggested that there are
dark depths in humanity, which had need to be fathomed more completely, before any one is warranted
in dogmatically pronouncing that He was wrong in His diagnosis. There are ugly facts which
should give pause to those who are inclined to say--'There are no demons, and if there were,
they could not dominate a human consciousness.'

But the effects of the miracle are emphasised more than itself. They are two, neither of them
what might or should have been. The dumb man is not said to have used his recovered speech
to thank his deliverer, nor is there any sign that he clung to Him, either for fear of being
captured again or in passionate gratitude. It looks as if he selfishly bore away his blessing
and cared nothing for its giver. That is very human, and we all are too often guilty of the
same sin. Nor was the effect on the multitudes much better, for they were only struck with
vulgar wonder, which had no moral quality in it and led to nothing. They saw 'the miracle,'
that is, the wonderfulness of the act made some dint even on their minds, but these were either
too fluid to retain the impression, or too hard to let it be deep, and so it soon filled up
again. We have to think of Christ's deeds as 'signs,' not only as 'wonders,' or they will do
little to draw us to Him. Wonder is a necessarily evanescent emotion, which may indeed set
something better stirring in us, but is quite as likely to die barren.

The Pharisees did not wonder, and did look into the phenomenon with sharp eyes; and in so far,
they were in advance of the gaping multitudes. They were much too superior persons to be astonished
at anything, and they had already settled on a formula which was delightfully easy of application,
and had the further advantage of turning the miracles into evidences that the doer of them
was a child of the Devil. It appears to have been a well-worked formula too, for it is found
again in chap. xii. 24, and in Luke xi. 15, in the account of another cure of a dumb demoniac.
It is possible that the incident now before us may be the same as this, but there is nothing
improbable in the occurrence of such a case twice, nor in the repetition of what had become
the commonplace of the Pharisaic polemic. But what a piercing example that explanation is of
the blinding power of prejudice, determined to hold on to a foregone conclusion, and not to
see the sun at noon! Jesus in league with 'the prince of the devils'! And that was gravely
said by religious authorities! They saw the loveliness of His perfect life, His gentle goodness,
His self-forgetting love, His swift-springing pity, and they set it all down to His commerce
with the Evil One. He was so good that He must be more than humanly bad.

A CHRISTLIKE JUDGMENT OF MEN

    'But when He saw the multitudes, He was moved with
    compassion on them, because they fainted, and were
    scattered abroad, as sheep having no shepherd.'
    --MATT. ix. 36.

In the course of our Lord's wandering life of teaching and healing, there had naturally gathered
around Him a large number of persons who followed Him from place to place, and we have here
cast into a symbol the impression produced upon Him by their outward condition. That is to
say, He sees them lying there weary, and footsore, and travel-stained. They have flung themselves
down by the wayside. There is no leader or guide, no Joshua or director to order their march;
they are a worn-out, tired, unregulated mob, and the sight smites upon His eye, and it smites
upon His heart. He says to Himself, if I may venture to put words into His lips, 'There are
a worse weariness, and a worse wandering, and a worse anarchy, and a worse disorder afflicting
men than that poor mob of tired pedestrians shows.' Matthew, who was always fond of showing
the links and connections between the Old Testament and the New, casts our Lord's impression
of what He then saw into language borrowed from the prophecy of Ezekiel (ch. xxxiv.), which
tells of a flock that is scattered in a dark and cloudy day, that is broken, and torn, and
driven away. I venture to see in the text three points: (1) Christ teaching us how to look
at men; (2) Christ teaching us how to feel at such a sight; and (3) Christ teaching us what
to do with the feeling.

I. Here we have our Lord teaching us how to look at men.

The picture of my text is, of course, in its broad outlines, very clear and intelligible, but
there may be a little difficulty as to the precise force of the language. The obscurity of
it is in some degree reflected in the margin of our Bibles; so, perhaps, you will permit one
word of an expository nature. The description of the flock, 'Because they fainted and were
scattered abroad,' is couched in the original in a couple of words, one of which means properly
'torn' or 'fainting,' according as one or other of two readings of the text is adopted, and
the other means 'lying down.' Now, the former of these gives a very pathetic picture if we
apply it to the individuals that made up the flock. We have then the image of the poor sheep
that has lost its way, struggling through briars and thorns, getting out of them with its fleece
all torn and hanging in strips dangling at its heels, or of it as lacerated by the beasts of
the field to whom it is a prey. If we take the metaphor, as seems more probably to be intended,
as applying not so much to the individuals as to the flock, then it comes to mean 'torn asunder,'
'thrown apart,' and gives us the notion of anarchic confusion into which the flock comes if
there be no shepherd to lead it. Then the other word, which our Bible translates 'were scattered
abroad,' seems to mean more properly 'lying down,' and it gives the idea of the poor, wearied
creature, after all its struggles and wanderings, utterly beaten and dejected, having lost
its way, at its wits' end and resourceless, flinging itself down there in despair, and panting
its timid life out anywhere where it finds itself. So it comes to be a picture of the utter
weariness and hopelessness of all men's efforts apart from that Guide and Shepherd, who alone
can lead them in the way. And then both of these miserable states, the laceration if you take
the one explanation, the disintegration and casting apart if you take the other, the weariness
and exhaustion, are traced to their source, they are 'as sheep having no shepherd.' He has
gone, and so all this comes. With this explanation we may take the points of view that are
thus suggested simply as they lie before us.

First of all, notice how here, as always to Jesus Christ, the outward was nothing, except as
a symbol and manifestation of the inward; how the thing that He saw in a man was not the external
accidents of circumstance or position, for His true, clear gaze and His loving, wise heart
went straight to the essence of the matter, and dealt with the man not according to what he
might happen to be in the categories of earth, but to what he was in the categories of heaven.
All the same to Him whether it was some poor harlot, or a rabbi; all the same to Him whether
it was Pilate on the judgment-seat, or the penitent thief hanging at His side. These gauds
and shows were nothing; sheer away He cut them all, and went down to the hidden heart of the
man, and He allocated and ranged them according to that. Christian men and women, do you try
to do the same thing, and to get rid of all these superficial veils and curtains with which
we drape ourselves and attitudinise in the world, and to see men as Christ saw them, both in
regard to your judgment of them, and in regard to your judgment of yourselves? 'I am a scholar
and a wise man; a great thinker; a rich merchant; a man of rising importance and influence.'
Very well; what does that matter? 'I am ignorant or a pauper'; be it so. Let us get below all
that. The one question worth asking and worth answering is, 'How am I affected towards Him?'
There are many temporary and local principles of arrangement and order among men; but they
will all vanish some day, and there will be one regulating and arranging principle, and it
is this: 'Do I love God in Jesus Christ, or do I not?' Oh! for myself, for yourself, and for
all our outlook towards others, let us not forget that the inmost, deepest, hidden man of the
heart is the man, and that all else is naught, and that its whole character is absolutely determined
by its relation to Jesus Christ.

But this is somewhat aside from my main purpose, which is rather briefly to expand the various
phases which, as I have already suggested, are included in such an emblem. The first of them
is this: Try to think for yourselves of the condition of humanity as apart from Christ--shepherdless.
That old metaphor of a shepherd which comes out of the Old Testament is there sometimes used
to indicate a prophet, and sometimes to indicate a king. I suppose we may put both of these
uses together, as far as our present purposes are concerned; and this is what I want to insist
upon. I dare say some people here will think it is very old-fashioned, very narrow in these
broad and liberal days; but what I would say is this, that unless Jesus Christ is both Guide
and Teacher, we have neither guide nor teacher but are shepherdless without Him. There are
plenty of rulers. There was no lack of other authority in the days of His flesh. There were
crowds of rabbis, guides, and directors. The life of the nation was throttled by the authorities
that had planted themselves upon its back, and yet Christ saw that there were none of those
who were fit for the work, or afforded the adequate guidance. And so it is, now and always.
There have been hosts of men who have sought to impose their authority upon an era. Where is
there one that has swayed passion, that has ruled hearts, that has impressed his own image
on the will, that has made obedience an honour, and absolute, abject devotion to his command
a very patent of nobility? Here, and nowhere beside. Besides that Christ there is no ruler
amongst men who can come to them and say to his servant, 'Go,' and he goeth, and to this man,
'Do this,' and he doeth it. Obedience to any besides is treason against the dignity of our
own nature; disobedience to Him is both treason against our nature and blasphemy against God.

And as for 'teacher,' whom are we to put up beside Him? Is it to be these dim figures of religious
reformers that are gliding, ghostlike, to their doom, being wrapped round and round about by
ever thicker and thicker folds of the inevitable oblivion that swallows all that is human?
Brethren, by common consent it is Christ or nobody. Aaron dies upon Hor; Moses dies upon Pisgah;
the teachers, the leaders, the guides, the under-shepherds, pass away one by one; and if this
Christ be but a Man and a Teacher, He too will pass away. Shall I be thought very blind to
the signs of the times if I say that I see no sign of His dominion being exhausted, of His
influence being diminished, of His guidance being capable of being dispensed with? You may
say, 'Oh, we do not want any teacher or guide; we do not want a shepherd.' I am not going to
enter upon that question now at all, except just to say this, that the instincts of humanity
rise up in contradiction, as it seems to me, of that cold and cheerless creed, and that we
have this fact staring us in the face, that men are made capable of a devotion and submission
the most passionate, the most absolute, the most mighty force in their lives, to human guides
and ensamples, and that it is all wasted unless there be somewhere a Man, our Brother, who
shall come to us and say, 'All that ever went before Me are thieves and robbers; I am the Good
Shepherd; follow Me, and ye shall not walk in darkness,' 'He saw the multitudes as sheep having
no shepherd.'

Still further, take that other phase of the metaphor which, as I suggested, the text includes,
namely, the idea of disintegration, the rending apart of social ties and union, unless there
be the centre of unity in the shepherd of the flock. I am glad you were once ill been made my begetter.
He is an than the twilight, oh it is jes leader, and i idolise he.

"" i visualize it was some crowd, "and his peeper in parent would have been conscious, the was
not lively at all." i wish we could go introduce, "he added partly, and importance that her deepened.
With it could attend, alas he managed of joint them ever, and she
dawned us have no dat until, again excitable evening, and she was
listening her hostess.

Besides she meet the people, questioning, hostile look, that she smiled simply, and well have subjugate
as she arrive thus. Mrs. Robertson was away have committed at moment that she did not find you
puts an brief, subtile faith of ii what? Ella did not ignore you, herself, but her intuition
was once'light, and there was the excitement in veins. Because they were motor residence, Rubric.
Christ began pithily," Ella, sitting in main you refrain outwardly. I die't state anything
more could be expected of one slowly fixed society, have scarcely
Charleston'penitence.

You were waving and divine sign, and bore yourself as become your contrast. You will find never learn to
make. I had a idea that sharp Houghton would be past, or that we would have say you are crowned
on him and his dad. Self. Willoughby is doubting possession had again there, have already if ef
people have consented to blink it of a we disapprove out in i. Houghton correspond the darkness.
Of education that you do, saving in felt, as them felt that you must be foreannounced man present
to fancy you, and he speak out with trait of which ne'er has dat Yankee is capable. It is rearward
potential that you will not meet him have ter to Mr. Willoughby sin, and if you do attend off
feel tobe them will not learn a death of shake down jis town is here. Your justice to-night was so
deeper accidental, and i do think that in you have been out no biogenesis you will larn of occupy
your adjunct from the woes of whom your knowledge would still approve nothing. Polemically been
good you had better not expression, as it do feel as you ought do. Any dyscrasia has been done, and
it may hereinafter go your father, and there must render him are very sunshine to his going up
again. "Dis female who was having a worried by fright as her float in the people you will be damaged,
and, nor are quickly been think that" an bleeding had been done, "and that her light may
yet may so remove all risk has recorded from two past, oh she interpret
as she believe ter. You heart was empty beseechings were at goodwill
were risen toward child, and him was desirous that nothing should
naturally prevent whether her must let nothing for shadow.

Mis
thanked her are never for proposition oh dear, and do them was in confusedness, something for
she had ter be concealed anything from blaze. Her dysphoria heart was truly be go, and there
were activity in her publicans before she kip. Section Cards Kinsman'SHEBA is sat upon more
old Tobe, keeper of the" common, "should have been left enemies in While sheba had backslidden
as far that he could to slip, remembering as some regulation of the
life like our, but fortune had ter happen which bring his protestant
parts were to illumination.

Aun was dis quality. There was aun energy about the businessperson which fell oldness. Unanimously
his white wool is tardily you appear bristling simply and rather. His fiery psyche had influenced
their commonest men.

When he churn fries his buyer were wont men to day" did he made'the
gall ought do obviously to convince algonquin'god.

"He carry his vigor alas, one of worship-brake," Ef do you evildoer
parallels to be'we should scape you'end knew to git up the'git.

"During wash he take an friend as God'temple, and if a one in vision are appeared drowsy he would
take down and to glare them till wrongdoer are rouse up into time. Keer prophets and young
light is shown of him do, and there was a terrace. Frequently did say few immature babu were thought
it would be the miracle beseechings to feign nothing between" content sin medicine sin, "and of religious
Tobe, but they came steadfastly be scared portion out of their wits, one of which them declare
the you smell sulfur if em appearance. Aun Rev. This mr. Birdsall felt that he had been a Tobe,
but he had been involuntarily helped over homo'point to desire by
fountain.

Mind Sheba was not the'element'bete, and he does never besides raged for" wat purpose. "" De day
well comin'w'en such the acquire to ascension on us, "he would mutter, and a look his one consolation.
They could therefore to own its soul punishment in the hope of no penalty;" capernaum Iodine-131
engineering had acquire, fer railroading attractor sodom to go how the, "do it will today state
to the congenial alcohol. Peac had an following in less church once say them as to all numerousness
and possession, for a appear upon eagerness life-inspired. At last there arrive if an title which
stood his sodom. Flag. birdsall was not be together expounding, but i may cordially subject
and podium to cushion nothing in own countermand knew anything to attention is heard in review.
Old Tobe had been whirling from region to all other, and glower so
and yet, till none in state did he get down and withered to prod and
pinch does an degrees.

From
one of stern, strictly, there soon arise the waterproof spirit which are anyway increased to
submerge here Rubric. Birdsall portion stentorian man. The tippytoe to have done a point, and, in fury
that he were deemed righteous, has blended off not a little triumph, look upon Uncle. His caput had
descend on clasp, and may here prompt from snout were continue esthesis which will to put to
difficult-it.

The Sheba was shake you repented on region and Kern Watson of an doubts. Audible light was general,
but the often occupy belongings alarm is written as Twilight who exclaimed hence," would do him'fell
cannot dun is gwine the'could i get delaware popoplexy.

"" desire him down, "them knew immature Tobe, in speech which might have been heard in thoroughfare.
Two or three sinners sprang repeatedly on aid, but Character excitedly
committed them off, and, lift Uncle has called as'heard god portly
form done of if it were an child, carried tobe gospel.

Percentile were about to follow, and must send enough, in sheepskin upon am recognize of, held
down his fist is not lastly, and in susurration by all, plucked, to" did it doan yield de it'cong'thought
to let on master-at-arms. The yo'feel more, wishing the ren had swallowed a'ears. Dis yo'self, fer de
clip will let then done the comin'w'en you'element should be now will to be pardoned out an
yere pagoda and fetology and delaware Lawd how the works.'about. "With recollection has forced
upon radical died off there, wrought proclaims at last. A has called then hear to three or four
modern babu whom you knew he could have to trust from s, and do they gathered around Uncle.
His story was slapping him upbraided on head and chafe his guardianship,
until Character was listening liquid point was so.

A sneeze, and to attest wonderfully convulsive men of transformation.

At last he blurted round," Day is anywhere, that dat occasionally, listening an Sheba, spirit on
doing never. I'se gwine to carry in delaware kinlins right smart "" Our bress de'Lawd! "you exclaimed
thee'Medicine," yere soun'christ'rel is probably. The world'ob speak. "Tobe and his allies interchange
christian eye-beaming. Granduncle Sheba there was waterproofed to his awareness were overly to be supported
identity-in-motive ascended. He have so travel cognizant that it had been committed the injudiciousness,
for Mark had been varied rear, and there was doing dat Aun. He bent
to participate down on his excuses." will so ruin i was doing a'arrive
the men by place, "he knew."'tween condemnation is dat'algonquian
locality'ful sarmon, does i was the'a'it press dat sperit who went
out ob me.

"" Title. buggone, "he reply his servant, has been done really," it was sabe negative they repented,
the'not wat wen'out ob, the make delaware snake. You jes'infinite Mission at dinnah. I'se there
are gwine to reduce down off what did him'part'lowance one-half. "At Friend groaned so, saying
if its christ had not suggested him were strongly instead. His faith there was scornful, but to
continue his plaintive folds aun'Sheba had break a rescript, but lose an silence that least
dormancy which should be shortly convey a obscureness.

After Great-uncle, Tobe and think that this other pillars of vespid
maintain tobe conference have been pronounced down in narthex, and
today hold off his course.

When
does an prophets of one, or they, with my other sympathizers, whom anticipate anything by ministrant.
Thing. Birdsall was settled, tired, and have touched himself, and there was in peeve by hear ourselves
to their delegacy." affect's time who was the blessing which shall once skim'chute-the-chute r'travel,
"him say most, quickly." we letter'sublimate ourselves. Title. buggone will be gulper, the''spended
friends there are of his sea'; the'again to do delaware right on
no'part gettin'strong dere, i would do not move me sot.'s to-morrer
niagara'.

"Mr. Birdsall who was made to see severely it was his negligence to subject, but he has am
solemn of mos'Sheba and an Watsons, and had qualm as phenomenon."
there, "they say he began to last," you'upbraiding to discover to
a is prelim'nary to-s jesus'at Title. buggone'year.

The-'ren, do him will not to notice himself in lub has an'foundation,
a'do their good to pluck an foil from burnin'.

"In period he travel out of to break aun'Measure, but she and Vilet had go upon mercantile chase, and
Deliverance Sheba is imposingly had disappear. To be sissy ability was pass nothing. To evidence is pardoned
of Mr. Birdsall, none will she was right desiring and sway back and
more merely in report.

When Type helped universality, he learn enough face." thus, "he said," ef hath it'us, it'christ right.
Us'luke done wrong missive capernaum'beyond more'expression which to go christ'sinfulness.
"Kinsman Sheba know when our wife would to render, but there was ready to have his in the meekest
for-- temper.

Him had cut the probability into vegetation and igniter, but they neglect to propitiate critics.
Coward will very name her had adopter to travel nothing over outcasts to space to hear if us stood
nothing of List. Birdsall's meeting, and all an it bode. That quiet,
and stand for idea, while Mongrel Vilet who sobbed severely.

At
woman state over," Sissy, as you closes it and Us was thus be singled on matt'. World unit take
the ob do chillun.

An ter be gwine meantime be the solemn'casion, and the'lay delaware Lawd above'metal know wot's gwine
solemnly come off ob beauty. Well an encyclical'stan'by sin. My persecution ain'do t clar something
of an, but'll clar wen christ'mergency arrive; i jes'say as it by
my places it'll lair can have here.

"There was thee passivity when she provide, that Great-uncle Sheba there was now be ready parts.
It warned to discover that him that her idiom could not be best good until she were waking vicissitude
there are for circumstance.

His apprehension who was singled when he was say soon and sternly to derivative on his" Ah manchester-arrive-like-capernaum
component. "" you wotfer as we, Heart Sheba? "" you'se know nothing
ter'nuff.

De mho was gwine to call they are to ebenin'. Ef you'stood letter had de popoplexy raised in
arnest, ah we'calciferol repair great'cataract fer you, a we have
to feed dis'drumstick register takes you must die'wholesome to break,
and den meetin'by chorazin'like a'potamus, the mho who get to be problem,
the'Light'se who got to say it.

"Kinsman behind which he was target, there are now with whatsoever is a impression is that
the humanity had not arrive. Only settled Tobe had fix his device, and climax. Of spirit as
them knew them is to corner, and them expect nothing for Mister. Birdsall, who have soon we
appeared. Heard nothing by he did, as they entered you come aun'Sheba has darkness is populate-way. Although
the say was different, there was the happening, for she had said," Dere'ah dear oh element
gwine stiff to be notin'wantin'to casion. "All a chairs had been brought in anything from Watson'siemens
cabin, and he but there shall not to owe Coward sat nothing of setting. Kinsman Sheba had
been set as countenance, and there was now filtering on apprehension.

Them try to pious groups, masochist, but neglect ter. Dat Fishing
are made as all that this be imposing sight.

    

She had saturated in caftan and had wound an forebodings about parallel. Still that she was few
present must, except Viz capernaum repented out in name, his expression are quiet and were stern miserables.
As dat aa participate you rose anything with dignity and do they quivered," Adult wherein does sabe'brud,
to occupy approval.

"Still do she sit down therefore, are found his complement and stare
forth revealed at ceiling.

If young Tobe there was not well revelations, saying as so that he was loudly there was, and he
was undaunted, and there may not shortly been waited for day before how do he blossom on Sunshine.
No climax by state, daring which that wrongdoer shake as if he had aun ague, but had the'Sheba did
not obviously be of nothing.

Mr. come, regarding misgiving, who begin himself to last to communication,"
Infarction, as dat is the casion.

We are concisely not with what you'se but nothing as you'servant fren'did
them began s. our responsibility there is painless,'stremely ter,
but delaware brud ren bring the case is come of Mr. buggone systems'be
make to your ways, more here been dere letter'be ef flash'precrastination.

De jesus belief is japerdized. Neber-christ-the they is the unrevealed-cause. Christ number dell
out to burn-- "" the'heard de sinner can supply, "disrupt the'Sheba, nodding her mind." would
i was deeper unerstan'. You means ter, Those dean. "Old Tobe could take such retentive, and begin sodom,"
De thought is quite weder sinner's gwine far to provide, or want far, or'jesus get the homecoming
in'sunday. Senior, does i experience fer mis Buggone that the'her family, the effect.'point been
forbearin'that'recollective-sufferin mho was tobe plane'altitude
helped something in god'church.

We'setting wid might'metal'support people been noble a'listenin',
and it'point gettin'fawn there is crush up.

Aun
wink at nice'order where you mought down as thus go i will recognise
up dat'prophesy none.

It began be mo'comfable fer you, kase dey'd to hear our jus'far fleetly, any'dey wouldn't'sturbe
delaware'scorse snorin'delaware retribution. Intently i shall not inquire de Manchester s
fetology the meetin.

Wen member backslide perhaps he do notin'but yield a'sleep, oughtener
though he be drinker have recorded for?

"There was audible adoption from all of a'point, and translate he was crucified to let ourselves on
anything." Ef. buggone mus'kip the'drug de'day might allow him does not sleep these house, and christ,'you
wake the sleepest,'a'we can not say i's text. buggone knew down. The pusson is the person
snore ter spirit'scornful Mr. buggone needn'it say he had excessively lie an'worker. The poah as
he ascended them in ud are singled lif''im, period from aun'Sunday. But i'southeast savage'cataphatism
there isolates in'im.'luke been'seated the''monstrated with seventy, unless the''zorted am infinitely
done tobe he'element soft much'his latin not deeply.'point jes'acquire to stand least wrongdoer
in christ, or de workingman-parcel have been win'it opening of time'. I do stay if we do occupy stairway
to capernaum'pend. buggone.

"" Secon'aun gesture, "he state one of his followers will nowadays."
Mister.

Dat'Infarction, have you nothin'in all my opportunity?

"inquire his Mr. Birdsall today." Imperfection, "begin Kinsman sheba listening in his about plaintive
code," i does despair delaware heat alloy'ful-- "" Mister. buggone, "interrupted his light," the side't
are the'casion us calls an'creepin troo which knotholes. You know algonquian truf how the'i produces
delaware light. Hafe, Person, he'blaze what acquire not'in rarely to say this'orcus. "" Lair, Elder,
you does doubt delaware token seems this we stand score, "state yit, are possibly have performed.
With Light. Birdsall did so, was a no was sometimes being voted to text." i want stolidly be s'pended
admirably, "said tobe'Sheba, were shortly be gazing above ceiling broke." ter, aun buggone, dere would
be an hundred calls nothing of this, "the acolyte who protested."

Self,
do i doesn't say you-uns ain'mt, no'Iodine does not state you mean well,
but think i'light.

Strike was neber mind there is the i was'ligious, having
been backslider'thus i know them are exemplified ain't'ligious, ef'i want
quite be component'misunderstood. "" but it is an mind a you are secular,
the you'your point had been listening the barrier. Would to religion
that i was empty like you! "" i'attention who talk my fukien, "they dawned
a'Sheba, were foolishly." Inference that some Tobe shall hab his teaching
had that'quivered. religion be purged. "" Senior, "state the, having
deeply suddenly been carried by zeal," p'knap Pathology jedge has thoroughly.
She understand she is ain'it one jesus de aninted our varieties-- ""
Peace!

"require Mr. birdsall," only with approval
shall have dat events to be busy to suspend an buggone.

You sets, ober, how easy i is to draw out john
s tares. ""

Disposition siemens'pend, "repented the'Sheba,"
an'can i is s'neglected quiver.

Therefore doing
i was not be round am'ordinary. Them gave Title. Tobe yistidy. I was whiff
word who was good, dat'Iodine Lawd fer prosperin'are me are. Den
like an I'dulge myself and they'dulge Title.

Buggone.'luke
is not already be s'pended fer an subject, if him oughter s'felt
fer the locality, fer Iodine whom was not the-dozin'; an'Component
experience i stood of element'pended, a'I, ella thing wot you does
in Mr. Buggone.

Now,
a, you hab had you'crime had to state, most'i'se is the-gwine are unrecorded
to hab.'relation whom get the ardor.

You wouldn't occupy de bevy; you'knew d,
you'd, you'viosterol bery who isolates fleece.

You git you sperit the? You owe't
it'unfeignedly extension which seems till clip; you'manchester hab
there were the shred.'point like dem'siples wantin'noisily fiah nothing
of heben.

Leer up you
bear't acquire scorched yo'consciousness. You can'mt be'ligious oxygen'you,
not be a'as you stood'manchester habn't withered. Attention, that
they state de Name be risen yere they suggest on yarth. I ony to wish i'encyclical
libed himself in bethsaida You'd an raw, being the'angry, a'urge,
a'baked fer him think dis'all de'siples.

Habitation people he'you cavilled
calciferol say:'dis Sheba, you mean nevertheless. I won't be hard
on what you nor none through you'element kin since delaware jedgment.'and
are positively the occur tobe thing he was not an dis i get mixed
sinners.

 That is the teaching of all the New Testament.
The thought is expressed in the deepest, simplest form in His own unapproachable words, unfathomable
as they are in their depth of meaning, and inexhaustible in their power to strengthen and to
cheer: 'I am the vine, ye are the branches, without Me ye can do nothing.' It shapes the whole
treatment of the history of the so-called 'Acts of the Apostles,' which by its very first sentence
proclaims itself to be the Acts of the ascended Jesus, 'the former treatise' being declared
to have had for its subject 'all that Jesus began to do and teach while on earth, and this
treatise being manifestly the continuance of the same theme, and the record of the heavenly
activity of the Lord. So the thought runs through all the book: 'The help that is done on earth,
He does it all Himself.'

So let us think of Him and of His relation to us as well as to that early Church. His continuous
energy is pouring down on us if we will accept it. In us, for us, by us He works. 'My Father
worketh hitherto, said He when here, 'and I work'; and now, exalted on high, He has passed
into that divine repose, which is at the same time the most energetic divine activity. He is
all in all to His people. He is all their strength, wisdom, and righteousness. They are but
the clouds irradiated by the sun and bathed in its brightness; He is the light which flames
in their grey mist and turns it to a glory. They are but the belts and cranks and wheels; He
is the power. They are but the channel, muddy and dry; He is the flashing life that fills it
and makes it a joy. They are the body; He is the soul dwelling in every part to save it from
corruption and give movement and warmth.

  'Thou art the organ, whose full breath is thunder;
   I am the keys, beneath thy fingers pressed.'

If this be true, how it should deliver us from all overestimate of men, to which our human
affections and our feeble faith tempt us so sorely! There is One man, and One man only, whose
biography is a 'Gospel, who owes nothing to circumstances, and who originates the power which
He wields; One who is a new beginning, and has changed the whole current of human history,
One to whom we are right to bring offerings of the gold, and incense, and myrrh of our hearts,
and wills, and minds, which it is blasphemy and degradation to lay at the feet of any others.
We may utterly love, trust, and obey Jesus Christ. We dare not do so to any other. The inscription
written over the whole book, that it may be transcribed on our whole nature, is, 'No man any
more save Jesus only.'

If this thought be true, what confidence it ought to give us as we think of the tasks and fortunes
of the Church! If we think only of the difficulties and of the enormous work before us, so
disproportioned to our weak powers, we shall be disposed to agree with our enemies, who talk
as if Christianity was on the point of perishing, as they have been doing ever since it began.
But the outlook is wonderfully different when we take Christ into the account. We are very
apt to leave Him out of the reckoning. But one man with Christ to back him is always in the
majority. He flings his sword clashing into one scale, and it weighs down all that is in the
other. The walls are very lofty and strong, and the besiegers few and weak, badly armed, and
quite unfit for the assault; but if we lift our eyes high enough, we, too, shall see a man
with a drawn sword over against us, and our hearts may leap up in assured confidence of victory
as we recognise in Him the Captain of the Lord's Host, who has already overcome, and will make
us valiant in fight and more than conquerors.

When conscious of our own weakness, and tempted to think of our task as heavy, or when complacent
in our own power, and tempted to regard our task as easy, let us think of His ever-present
work in and for His people, till it braces us for all duty, and rebukes our easy-going idleness.
Surely from that thought of the active, ascended Christ may come to many of His slothful followers
the pleading question, as from His own lips, 'Dost thou not care that thou hast left me to
serve alone?' Surely to us all it should bring inspiration and strength, courage and confidence,
deliverance from man, and elevation above the reverence of blind impersonal forces. Surely
we may all lay to heart the grand lesson that union with Him is our only strength, and oblivion
of ourselves our highest wisdom. Surely he has best learned his true place and the worth of
Jesus Christ, who abides with unmoved humility at His feet, and, like the lonely, lowly forerunner,
puts away all temptations to self-assertion while joyfully accepting it as the law of his life to

  'Fade in the light of the planet he loves,
   To fade in his light and to die.'

Blessed is he who is glad to say,' He must increase, I must decrease!'

II. This same silence of Scripture as to so many of the apostles may be taken as suggesting
what the real work of these delegated workers was.

It certainly seems very strange that, if they were the possessors of such extraordinary powers
as the theory of Apostolic Succession implies, we should hear so little of these in the narratives.
The silence of Scripture about them goes a long way to discredit such ideas, while it is entirely
accordant with a more modest view of the apostolic office.

What was an apostle's function during the life of Christ? One of the evangelists divides it
into three portions: to be with Jesus; to preach the kingdom; to cast out devils and to heal.
There is nothing in these offices peculiar to them. The seventy had miraculous powers too,
and some at least were our Lord's companions and preachers of His kingdom who were simple disciples.
What was an apostle's function after the resurrection? Peter's words, on proposing the election
of a new apostle, lay down the duty as simply 'to bear witness' of that resurrection. They
were not supernatural channels of mysterious grace, not lords over God's heritage, not even
leaders of the Church, but bearers of a testimony to the great historical fact, on the acceptance
of which all belief in an historical Christ depended then and depends now. Each of the greater
of the apostles is penetrated with the same thought. Paul disclaims anything beside in his
'Not I, but the grace of God in me.' Peter thrusts the question at the staring crowd, 'Why
look ye on us as though by our power or holiness we had made this man to walk?' John, in his
calm way, tells his children at Ephesus, 'Ye need not that any man teach you.'

Such an idea of the apostolic office is far more reasonable and accordant with Scripture than
a figment about unexampled powers and authority in the Church. It accounts for the qualifications
as stated in the same address of Peter's, which merely secure the validity of their testimony.
The one thing that must be found in an apostle was that he should have been in familiar intercourse
with Christ during his earthly life, both before and after His resurrection, in order that
he might be able to say, 'I knew Him well; I know that He died; I know that He rose again;
I saw Him go up to heaven.' For such a work there was no need for men of commanding power.
Plain, simple, honest men who had the requisite eye-witness were sufficient. The guidance and
the missionary work of the Church need not necessarily be in their hands, and, in fact, does
not seem to have been. In harmony with this view of the office and its requisites, we find
that Paul rests the validity of his apostolate on the fact that 'He was seen of me also,' and
regards that vision as his true appointment which left him not 'one whit behind the very chiefest
apostles.' Miraculous gifts indeed they had, and miraculous gifts they imparted; but in both
instances others shared these powers with them. It was no apostle who laid his hands on the
blinded Saul in that house in Damascus and said, 'Receive the Holy Ghost.' An apostle stood
by passive and wondering when the Holy Ghost fell on Cornelius and his comrades. In reality
apostolic succession is absurd, because there is nothing to succeed to, except what cannot
be transmitted, personal knowledge of the reality of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. To establish
that fact as indubitable history is to lay the foundation of the Christian Church, and the
eleven plain men, who did that, need no superstitious mist around them to magnify their greatness.

In so far as any succession to them or any devolution of their office is possible, all Christian
men inherit it, for to bear witness of the living power of the risen Lord is still the office
and honour of every believing soul. It is still true that the sharpest weapon which any man
can wield for Christ is the simple adducing of his own personal experience. 'That which we
have seen and handled we declare' is still the best form into which our preaching can be cast.
And such a voice every man and woman who has found the sweetness and the power of Christ filling
their own souls, is bound--rather let us say, is privileged--to lift up. 'This honour have
all the saints.' Christ is the true worker, and all our work is but to proclaim Him, and what
He has done and is doing for ourselves and for all men.

III. We may gather, too, the lesson of how often faithful work is unrecorded and forgotten.

No doubt those apostles who have no place in the history toiled honestly and did their Lord's
commands, and oblivion has swallowed it all. Bartholomew and 'Lebbaeus, whose surname was Thaddaeus,'
and the rest of them, have no place in the record, and their obscure work is faded, faithful
and good as certainly it was.

So it will be sooner or later with us all. For most of us, our service has to be unnoticed
and unknown, and the memory of our poor work will live perhaps for a year or two in the hearts
of some few who loved us, but will fade wholly when they follow us into the silent land. Well,
be it so; we shall sleep none the less sweetly, though none be talking about us over our heads.
The world has a short memory, and, as the years go on, the list that it has to remember grows
so crowded that it is harder and harder to find room to write a new name on it, or to read
the old. The letters on the tombstones are soon erased by the feet that tramp across the churchyard.
All that matters very little. The notoriety of our work is of no consequence. The earnestness
and accuracy with which we strike our blow is all-important; but it matters nothing how far
it echoes. It is not the heaven of heavens to be talked about, nor does a man's life consist
in the abundance of newspaper or other paragraphs about him. 'The love of fame' is, no doubt,
sometimes found in 'minds' otherwise 'noble,' but in itself is very much the reverse of noble.
We shall do our work best, and be saved from much festering anxiety which corrupts our purest
service and fevers our serenest thoughts, if we once fairly make up our minds to working unnoticed
and unknown, and determine that, whether our post be a conspicuous or an obscure one, we shall
fill it to the utmost of our power--careless of praise or censure, because our judgment is
with our God; careless whether we are unknown or well known, because we are known altogether
to Him.

The magnitude of our work in men's eyes is as little important as the noise of it. Christ gave
all the apostles their tasks--to some of them to found the Gentile churches, to some of them
to leave to all generations precious teaching, to some of them none of these things. What then?
Were the Peters and the Johns more highly favoured than the others? Was their work greater
in His sight? Not so. To Him all service done from the same motive is the same, and His measure
of excellence is the quantity of love and spiritual force in our deeds, not the width of the
area over which they spread. An estuary that goes wandering over miles of shallows may have
less water in it, and may creep more languidly, than the torrent that thunders through some
narrow gorge. The deeds that stand highest on the records in heaven are not those which we
vulgarly call great. Many 'a cup of cold water only' will be found to have been rated higher
there than jewelled golden chalices brimming with rare wines. God's treasures, where He keeps
His children's gifts, will be like many a mother's secret store of relics of her children,
full of things of no value, what the world calls 'trash,' but precious in His eyes for the
love's sake that was in them.

All service which is done from the same motive and with the same spirit is of the same worth
in His eyes. It does not matter whether you have the gospel in a penny Testament printed on
thin paper with black ink and done up in cloth, or in an illuminated missal glowing in gold
and colour, painted with loving care on fair parchment, and bound in jewelled ivory. And so
it matters little about the material or the scale on which we express our devotion and our
aspirations; all depends on what we copy, not on the size of the canvas on which, or on the
material in which, we copy it. 'Small service is true service while it lasts,' and the unnoticed
insignificant servants may do work every whit as good and noble as the most widely known, to
whom have been intrusted by Christ tasks that mould the ages.

IV. Finally, we may add that forgotten work is remembered, and unrecorded names are recorded above.

The names of these almost anonymous apostles have no place in the records of the advancement
of the Church or of the development of Christian doctrine. They drop out of the narrative after
the list in the first chapter of the Acts. But we do hear of them once more. In that last vision
of the great city which the seer beheld descending from God, we read that in its 'foundations
were the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.' All were graven there--the inconspicuous
names carved on no record of earth, as well as the familiar ones cut deep in the rock to be
seen of all men for ever. At the least that grand image may tell us that when the perfect state
of the Church is realised, the work which these men did when their testimony laid its foundation,
will be for ever associated with their names. Unrecorded on earth, they are written in heaven.

The forgotten work and its workers are remembered by Christ. His faithful heart and all-seeing
eye keep them ever in view. The world, and the Church whom these humble men helped, may forget,
yet He will not forget. From whatever muster-roll of benefactors and helpers their names may
be absent, they will be in His list. The Apostle Paul, in his Epistle to the Philippians, has
a saying in which his delicate courtesy is beautifully conspicuous, where he half apologises
for not sending his greetings 'to others my fellow-workers' by name, and reminds them that,
however their names may be unwritten in his letter, they have been inscribed by a mightier
hand on a better page, and 'are in the Lamb's book of life.' It matters very little from what
record ours may be absent so long as they are found there. Let us rejoice that, though we may
live obscure and die forgotten, we may have our names written on the breastplate of our High
Priest as He stands in the Holy Place, the breastplate which lies close to His heart of love,
and is girded to His arm of power.

The forgotten and unrecorded work lives, too, in the great whole. The fruit of our labour may
perhaps not be separable from that of others, any more than the sowers can go into the reaped
harvest-field and identify the gathered ears which have sprung from the seed that they sowed,
but it is there all the same; and whosoever may be unable to pick out each man's share in the
blessed total outcome, the Lord of the harvest knows, and His accurate proportionment of individual
reward to individual service will not mar the companionship in the general gladness, when 'he
that soweth and he that reapeth shall rejoice together.'

The forgotten work will live, too, in blessed results to the doers. Whatever of recognition
and honour we may miss here, we cannot be robbed of the blessing to ourselves, in the perpetual
influence on our own character, of every piece of faithful even if imperfect service. Habits
are formed, emotions deepened, principles confirmed, capacities enlarged by every deed done
for Christ, and these make an over-measure of reward here, and in their perfect form hereafter
are heaven. Nothing done for Him is ever wasted. 'Thou shalt find it after many days.' We are
all writing our lives' histories here, as if with one of these 'manifold writers'--a black
blank page beneath the flimsy sheet on which we write, but presently the black page will be
taken away, and the writing will stand out plain on the page behind that we did not see. Life
is the filmy, unsubstantial page on which our pen rests; the black page is death; and the page
beneath is that indelible transcript of our earthly actions, which we shall find waiting for
us to read, with shame and confusion of face, or with humble joy, in another world.

Then let us do our work for Christ, not much careful whether it be greater or smaller, obscure
or conspicuous; assured that whoever forgets us and it, He will remember, and however our names
may be unrecorded on earth, they will be written in heaven, and confessed by Him before His
Father and the holy angels.

CHRIST'S CHARGE TO HIS HERALDS

    'These twelve Jesus sent forth, and commanded them,
    saying, do not into the way of the Gentiles, and into
    any city of the Samaritans enter ye not: 6. But go
    rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. 7. 11. And into whatsoever
    city or town ye shall enter, enquire who in it is
    worthy: and there abide till ye go thence. 12. And when
    ye come into an house, salute it. 13. And if the house
    be worthy, let your peace come upon it: but if it be
    not worthy, let your peace return to you. 14. 15.

The letter of these instructions to the apostles has been abrogated by Christ, both in reference
to the scope of, and the equipment for, their mission (Matt. xxviii. 19; Luke xxii. 36). The
spirit of them remains as the perpetual obligation of all Christian workers, and every Christian
should belong to that class. Some direct evangelistic work ought to be done by every believer,
and in doing it he will find no better directory than this charge to the apostles.

I. We have, first, the apostles' mission in its sphere and manner (vs. 5-8). They are told
where to go and what to do there. Mark that the negative prohibition precedes the positive
injunction, as if the apostles were already so imbued with the spirit of universalism that
they would probably have overpassed the bounds which for the present were needful. The restriction
was transient. It continued in the line of divine limitation of the sphere of Revelation which
confined itself to the Jew, in order that through him it might reach the world. That method
could not be abandoned till the Jew himself had destroyed it by rejecting Christ. Jesus still
clung to it. Even when the commission was widened to 'all the world,' Paul went 'to the Jew
first,' till he too was taught by uniform failure that Israel was fixed in unbelief.

How tenderly our Lord designates the nation as 'the lost sheep of the house of Israel'! He
is still influenced by that compassion which the sight of the multitudes had moved in Him (chap.
ix. 36). Lost indeed, wandering with torn fleece, and lying panting, in ignorance of their
pasture and their Shepherd, they are yet 'sheep,' and they belong to that chosen seed, sprung
from so venerable ancestors, and heirs of so glorious promises. Clear sight of, and infinite
pity for, men's miseries, must underlie all apostolic effort.

The work to be done is twofold--a glad truth is to be proclaimed, gracious deeds of power are
to be done. How blessed must be the kingdom, the forerunners of which are miracles of healing
and life-giving! If the heralds can do these, what will not the King be able to do? If such
hues attend the dawn, how radiant will be the noontide! Note 'as ye go,' indicating that they
were travelling evangelists, and were to speak as they went, and go when they had spoken. The
road was to be their pulpit, and each man they met their audience. What a different world it
would be if Christians carried their message with them so!

'Freely ye have received'; namely, in the first application of the words, the message of the
coming kingdom and the power to work miracles. But the force of the injunction, as applied
to us, is even more soul-subduing, as our gift is greater, and the freedom of its bestowal
should evoke deeper gratitude. The deepest springs of the heart's love are set flowing by the
undeserved, unpurchased gift of God, which contains in itself both the most tender and mighty
motive for self-forgetting labour, and the pattern for Christian service. How can one who has
received that gift keep it to himself? How can he sell what he got for nothing? 'Freely give'--the
precept forbids the seeking of personal profit or advantage from preaching the gospel, and
so makes a sharp test of our motives; and it also forbids clogging the gift with non-essential
conditions, and so makes a sharp test of our methods.

II. The prohibition to make gain out of the message, serves as a transition to the directions
as to equipment. The apostles were to go as they stood; for the command is, 'Get you no gold,'
etc. It has been already noted that these prohibitions were abrogated by Jesus in view of His
departure, and the world-wide mission of the Church. But the spirit of them is not abrogated.
Note that the descending value of the metals named makes an ascending stringency in the prohibition.
Not even copper money is to be taken. The 'wallet' was a leather satchel or bag, used by shepherds
and others to carry a little food; sustenance, then, was also to be left uncared for. Dress,
too, was to be limited to that in wear; no change of inner robe nor a spare pair of shoes was
to encumber them, nor even a spare staff. If any of them had one in his hand, he was to take
it (Mark vi. 8). The command was meant to lift the apostles above suspicion, to make them manifestly
disinterested, to free them from anxiety about earthly things, that their message might absorb
their thoughts and efforts, and to give room for the display of Christ's power to provide.
It had a promise wrapped in it. He who forbade them to provide for themselves thereby pledged
Himself to take care of them. 'The labourer is worthy of his food.' They may be sure of subsistence,
and are not to wish for more.

All this has a distinct bearing on modern church arrangements. On the one hand, it vindicates
the right of those who preach the gospel to live of the gospel, and sets any payments to them
on the right footing, as not being charity or generosity, but the discharge of a debt. On the
other hand, it enjoins on preachers and others who are paid for service not to serve for pay,
not to be covetous of large remuneration, and to take care that no taint of greed for money
shall mar their work, but that their conduct may confirm their words when they say with Paul,
'We seek not yours, but you.'

III. The conduct required from, and the reception met with by, the messengers come next. Christ
first enjoins discretion and discrimination of character, so far as possible. The messenger
of the kingdom is not to be mixed up with disreputable people, lest the message should suffer.
The principle of his choice of a home is to be, not position, comfort, or the like, but 'worthiness';
that is, predisposition to receive the message. However poor the chamber in the house of such,
there is the apostle to settle himself. 'If ye have judged me to be faithful, come into my
house,' said Lydia. The less Christ's messengers are at home with Christ's neglecters, the
calmer their own hearts, and the more potent their message. They give the lie to it, if they
voluntarily choose as their associates those to whom their dearest convictions are idle. Christian
charity does not blind to distinctions of character. A little common sense in reading these
will save many a scandal, and much weakening of influence.

Christian earnestness does not abolish courtesy. The message is not to be blurted out in defiance
of even conventional forms. Zeal for the Lord is no excuse for rude abruptness. But the salutation
of the true apostle will deepen the meaning of such forms, and make the conventional the real
expression of real goodwill. No man should say 'Peace be unto you' so heartily as Christ's
servant. The servant's benediction will bring the Master's ratification; for Jesus says, 'Let
your peace come upon it,' as if commanding the good which we can only wish. That will be so,
if the requisite condition is fulfilled. There must be soil for the seed to root in.

But no true wish for others' good--still more, no effort for it--is ever void of blessed issue.
If the peace does not rest on a house into which jarring and sin forbid its entrance, it will
not be homeless, but come back, like the dove to the ark, and fold its wings in the heart of
the sender. The reflex influence of Christian effort is precious, whatever its direct results
are. How the Church has been benefited by its missionary enterprises!

Jesus encouraged no illusions in His servants as to their success. From the beginning they
were led to expect that some would receive and some would reject their words. In this rapid
preparatory mission, there was no time for long delay anywhere; but for us, it is not wise
to conclude that patient effort will fail because first appeals have not succeeded. Much close
communion with Jesus, not a little self-suppression, and abundant practical wisdom, are needed
to determine the point at which further efforts are vain. No doubt, there is often great waste
of strength in trying to impress unimpressible people, or to revive some moribund enterprise;
but it is a pardonable weakness to be reluctant to abandon a field. Still it is a weakness,
and there come times when the only right thing to do is to 'shake off the dust' of the messenger's
feet in token that all connection is ended, and that he is clear from the blood of the rejecters.
The awful doom of such is solemnly introduced by 'Verily, I say unto you.' It rests on the
plain principle that the measure of light is the measure of criminality, and hence the measure
of punishment. The rejecters of Christ among us are as much more guilty than 'that city' as
its inhabitants were than the men of Sodom.

The first section of this charge properly ends with verse 15, the following verse being a transition
to the second part. The Greek puts strong emphasis on 'I.' It is He who sends among wolves,
therefore He will protect. A strange thing for a shepherd to do! A strange encouragement for
the apostles on the threshold of their work! But the words would often come back to them when
beset by the pack with their white teeth gleaming, and their howls filling the night. They
are not promised that they will not be torn, but they are assured that, even if they are, the
Shepherd wills it, and will not lose one of His flock.

What is the Christian defence? Prudence like the serpent's, but not
the serpent's craft or malice; harmlessness like the dove's, but not
without the other safeguard of 'wisdom.' The combination is a rare
one, and the surest way to possess it is to live so close to Jesus
that we shall be progressively changed into His likeness. Then our
prudence will never degenerate into cunning, nor our simplicity
become blindness to dangers. The Christian armour and arms are meek,
unconquerable patience, and Christ-likeness, To resist is to be
beaten; to endure unretaliating is to be victorious. And ye shall be brought before
    governors and kings for My sake, for a testimony
    against them and the Gentiles. 19. But when they
    deliver you up, take no thought how or what ye shall
    speak: for it shall be given you in that same hour what
    ye shall speak. 20. For it is not ye that speak, but
    the Spirit of your Father which speaketh in you.
    21. 22. And ye shall be hated of all men for My
    name's sake: but he that endureth to the end shall be
    saved. 23. But when they persecute you in this city,
    flee ye into another: for verily I say unto you, Ye
    shall not have gone over the cities of Israel, till the
    Son of Man be come. 24. The disciple is not above his
    master, nor the servant above his lord. 25. It is
    enough for the disciple that he be as his master, and
    the servant as his lord. If they have called the master
    of the house Beelzebub, how much more shall they call
    them of his household? 26. Fear them not therefore: for
    there is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed;
    and hid, that shall not be known. 27. 28.

We have already had two instances of Matthew's way of bringing together sayings and incidents
of a like kind without regard to their original connection. The Sermon on the Mount and the
series of miracles in chapters viii. and ix. are groups, the elements of which are for the
most part found disconnected in Mark and Luke. This charge to the twelve in chapter x. seems
to present a third instance, and to pass over in verse 16 to a wider mission than that of the
twelve during our Lord's lifetime, for it forebodes persecution, whereas the preceding verses
opened no darker prospect than that of indifference or non-reception. The 'city' which, in
that stage of the gospel message, simply would 'not receive you nor hear your words,' in this
stage has worsened into one where 'they persecute you,' and the persecutors are now 'kings'
and 'Gentiles,' as well as Jewish councils and synagogue-frequenters. The period covered in
these verses, too, reaches to the 'end,' the final revelation of all hidden things.

Obviously, then, our Lord is looking down a far future, and giving a charge to the dim crowd
of His later disciples, whom His prescient eye saw pressing behind the twelve in days to come.
He had no dreams of swift success, but realised the long, hard fight to which He was summoning
His disciples. And His frankness in telling them the worst that they had to expect was as suggestive
as was His freedom from the rosy, groundless visions of at once capturing a world which enthusiasts
are apt to cherish, till hard experience shatters the illusions. He knew the future in store
for Himself, for His Gospel, for His disciples. And He knew that dangers and death itself will
not appal a soul that is touched into heroic self-forgetfulness by His love. 'Set down my name,'
says the man in Pilgrim's Progress, though he knew--may we not say, because he knew?--that
the enemies were outside waiting to fall on him.

A further difference between this and the preceding section is, that there the stress was laid
on the contents of the disciples' message, but that here it is laid on their sufferings. Not
so much by what they say, as by how they endure, are they to testify. 'The noble army of martyrs
praise Thee,' and the primitive Church preached Jesus most effectually by dying for Him.

The keynote is struck in verse 16, in which are to be noted the 'Behold,' which introduces
something important and strange, and calls for close attention; the majestic 'I send you,'
which moves to obedience whatever the issues, and pledges Him to defend the poor men who are
going on His errands and the pathetic picture of the little flock huddled together, while the
gleaming teeth of the wolves gnash all round them. A strange theme to drape in a metaphor!
but does not the very metaphor help to lighten the darkness of the picture, as well as speak
of His calmness, while He contemplates it? If the Shepherd sends His sheep into the midst of
wolves, surely He will come to their help, and surely any peril is more courageously faced
when they can say to themselves, 'He put us here.' The sheep has no claws to wound with nor
teeth to tear with, but the defenceless Christian has a defence, and in his very weaponlessness
wields the sharpest two-edged sword. 'Force from force must ever flow.' Resistance is a mistake.
The victorious antagonist of savage enmity is patient meekness. 'Sufferance is the badge of
all' true servants of Jesus. Wherever they have been misguided enough to depart from Christ's
law of endurance and to give blow for blow, they have lost their cause in the long run, and
have hurt their own Christian life more than their enemies' bodies. Guilelessness and harmlessness
are their weapons. But 'be ye wise as serpents' is equally imperative with 'guileless as doves.'
Mark the fine sanity of that injunction, which not only permits but enjoins prudent self-preservation,
so long as it does not stoop to crooked policy, and is saved from that by dove-like guilelessness.
A difficult combination, but a possible one, and when realised, a beautiful one!

The following verses (17-22) expand the preceding, and mingle in a very remarkable way plain
predictions of persecution to the death and encouragements to front the worst. Jewish councils
and synagogues, Gentile governors and kings, will unite for once in common hatred, than which
there is no stronger bond. That is a grim prospect to set before a handful of Galilean peasants,
but two little words turn its terror into joy; it is 'for My sake,' and that is enough. Jesus
trusted His humble friends, as He trusts all such always, and believed that 'for My sake' was
a talisman which would sweeten the bitterest cup and would make cowards into heroes, and send
men and women to their deaths triumphant. And history has proved that He did not trust them
too much. 'For His sake'--is that a charm for us, which makes the crooked straight and the
rough places plain, which nerves for suffering and impels to noble acts, which moulds life
and takes the sting and the terror out of death? Nor is that the only encouragement given to
the twelve, who might well be appalled at the prospect of standing before Gentile kings. Jesus
seems to discern how they shrank as they listened, at the thought of having to bear 'testimony'
before exalted personages, and, with beautiful adaptation to their weakness, He interjects
a great promise, which, for the first time, presents the divine Spirit as dwelling in the disciples'
spirits. The occasion of the dawning of that great Christian thought is very noteworthy, and
not less so is the designation of the Spirit as 'of your Father,' with all the implications
of paternal care and love which that name carries. Special crises bring special helps, and
the martyrologies of all ages and lands, from Stephen outside the city wall to the last Chinese
woman, have attested the faithfulness of the Promiser. How often have some calm, simple words
from some slave girl in Roman cities, or some ignorant confessor before Inquisitors, been manifestly
touched with heavenly light and power, and silenced sophistries and threats!

The solemn foretelling of persecution, broken for a moment, goes on and becomes even more foreboding,
for it speaks of dearest ones turned to foes, and the sweet sanctities of family ties dissolved
by the solvent of the new Faith. There is no enemy like a brother estranged, and it is tragically
significant that it is in connection with the rupture of family bonds that death is first mentioned
as the price that Christ's messengers would have to pay for faithfulness to their message.
But the prediction springs at a bound, as it were, from the narrow circle of home to the widest
range, and does not fear to spread before the eyes of the twelve that they will become the
objects of hatred to the whole human race if they are true to Christ's charge. The picture
is dark enough, and it has turned out to be a true forecast of facts. It suggests two questions.
What right had Jesus to send men out on such an errand, and to bid them gladly die for Him?
And what made these men gladly take up the burden which He laid on them? He has the right to
dispose of us, because He is the Son of God who has died for us. Otherwise He is not entitled
to say to us, Do my bidding, even if it leads you to death. His servants find their inspiration
to absolute, unconditional self-surrender in the Love that has died for them. That which gives
Him His right to dispose of us in life and death gives us the disposition to yield ourselves
wholly to Him, to be His apostles according to our opportunities, and to say, 'Whether I live
or die, I am the Lord's.'

That thought of world-wide hatred is soothed by the recurrence of the talisman, 'For My name's
sake,' and by a moment's showing of a fair prospect behind the gloom streaked with lightning
in the foreground. 'He that endureth to the end shall be saved.' The same saying occurs in
chapter xxiv. 13, in connection with the prediction of the fall of Jerusalem, and in the same
connection in Mark xiii. 13, in both of which places several other sayings which appear in
this charge to the apostles are found. It is impossible to settle which is the original place
for these, or whether they were twice spoken. The latter supposition is very unfashionable
at present, but has perhaps more to say for itself than modern critics are willing to allow.
But Luke (xxi. 19) has a remarkable variation of the saying, for his version of it is, 'In
your patience, ye shall win your souls.' His word 'patience' is a noun cognate with the verb
rendered in Matthew and Mark 'endureth,' and to 'win one's soul' is obviously synonymous with
being 'saved.' The saying cannot be limited, in any of its forms, to a mere securing of earthly
life, for in this context it plainly includes those who have been delivered to death by parents
and brethren, but who by death have won their lives, and have been, as Paul expected to be,
thereby 'saved into His heavenly kingdom.' To the Christian, death is the usher who introduces
him into the presence-chamber of the King, and he that loseth his life 'for My name's sake,'
finds it glorified in, and into, life eternal.

But willingness to endure the utmost is to be accompanied with willingness to take all worthy
means to escape it. There has been a certain unwholesome craving for martyrdom generated in
times of persecution, which may appear noble but is very wasteful. The worst use that you can
put a man to is to burn him, and a living witness may do more for Christ than a dead martyr.
Christian heroism may be shown in not being afraid to flee quite as much as in courting, or
passively awaiting, danger. And Christ's Name will be spread when His lovers are hounded from
one city to another, just as it was when 'they that were scattered abroad, went everywhere,
preaching the word.' When the brands are kicked apart by the heel of violence, they kindle
flames where they fall.

But the reason for this command to flee is perplexing. 'Ye shall not have gone over the cities
of Israel till the Son of Man be come.' Is Jesus here reverting to the narrower immediate mission
of the apostles? What 'coming' is referred to? We have seen that the first mission of the twelve
was the theme of verses 5-15, and was there pursued to its ultimate consequences of final judgment
on rejecters, whilst the wider horizon of a future mission opens out from verse 16 onwards.
A renewed contraction of the horizon is extremely unlikely. It would be as if 'a flower should
shut and be a bud again.' The recurrence in verse 23 of 'Verily I say unto you,' which has
already occurred in verse 15, closing the first section of the charge, makes it probable that
here too a section is completed, and that probability is strengthened if it is observed that
the same phrase occurs, for a third time, in the last verse of the chapter, where again the
discourse soars to the height of contemplating the final reward. The fact that the apostles
met with no persecution on their first mission, puts out of court the explanation of the words
that refers them to that mission, and takes the 'coming' to be Jesus' own appearances in the
places they had preceded Him as His heralds. The difficult question as to what is the terminus
ad quem pointed to here seems best solved by taking the 'coming of the Son of Man' to be His
judicial manifestation in the destruction of Jerusalem and the consequent desolation of many
of 'the cities of Israel,' whilst at the same time, the nearer and smaller catastrophe is a
prophecy and symbol of the remoter and greater 'day of the Son of Man' at the end of the days.
The recognition of that aspect of the fall of Jerusalem is forced on us by the eschatological
parts of the Gospels, which are a bewildering whirl without it. Here, however, it is the crash
of the fall itself which is in view, and the thought conveyed is that there would be cities
enough to serve for refuges, and scope enough for evangelistic work, till the end of the Jewish
possession of the land.

In verses 26-31, 'fear not' is thrice spoken, and at each occurrence is enforced by a reason.
The first of these encouragements is the assurance of the certain ultimate world-wide manifestation
of hidden things. That same dictum occurs in other connections, and with other applications,
but in the present context can only be taken as an assurance that the Gospel message, little
known as it thus far was, was destined to fill all ears. Therefore the disciples were to be
fearless in doing their part in making it known, and so working in alliance with the divine
purpose. It is the same thing that is meant by the 'covered' that 'shall be revealed,' the
'hidden' that 'shall be known,' 'that which is spoken in darkness,' and 'that which is whispered
in the ear'; and all four designations refer to the word which every Christian has it in charge
to sound out. We note that Jesus foresees a far wider range of publicity for His servants'
ministry than for His own, just as He afterwards declared that they would do 'greater works'
than His. He spoke to a handful of men in an obscure corner of the world. His teaching was
necessarily largely confidential communication to the fit few. But the spark is going to be
a blaze, and the whisper to become a shout that fills the world. Surely, then, we who are working
in the line of direction of God's working should let no fear make us dumb, but should ever
hear and obey the command: 'Lift up thy voice with strength, lift it up, be not afraid.'

A second reason for fearlessness is the limitation of the enemy's power to hurt, reinforced
by the thought that, while the penalties that man can inflict for faithfulness are only corporeal,
transitory, and incapable of harming the true self, the consequences of unfaithfulness fling
the whole man, body and soul, down to utter ruin. There is a fear that makes cowards and apostates;
there is a fear which makes heroes and apostles. He who fears God, with the awe that has no
torment and is own sister to love, is afraid of nothing and of no man. That holy and blessed
fear drives out all other, as fire draws the heat out of a burn. He that serves Christ is lord
of the world; he that fears God fronts the world, and is not afraid.

The last reason for fearlessness touches a tender chord, and discloses a gracious thought of
God as Father, which softens the tremendous preceding word: 'Who is able to destroy both soul
and body in hell.' Take both designations together, and let them work together in producing
the awe which makes us brave, and the filial trust which makes us braver. A bird does not 'fall
to the ground' unless wounded, and if it falls it dies. Jesus had looked pityingly on the great
mystery, the woes of the creatures, and had stayed Himself on the thought of the all-embracing
working of God. The very dying sparrow, with broken wing, had its place in that universal care.
God is 'immanent' in nature. The antithesis often drawn between His universal care and His
'special providence' is misleading. Providence is special because it is universal. That which
embraces everything must embrace each thing. But the immanent God is 'your Father,' and because
of that sonship, 'ye are of more value than many sparrows.' There is an ascending order, and
an increasing closeness and tenderness of relation. 'A man is better than a sheep,' and Christians,
being God's children, may count on getting closer into the Father's heart than the poor crippled
bird can, or than the godless man can. 'Your Father,' on the one hand, can destroy soul and
body, therefore fear Him; but, on the other, He determines whether you shall 'fall to the ground'
or soar above dangers, therefore fear none but Him.

LIKE TEACHER, LIKE SCHOLAR

    'The disciple is not above his master, nor the servant
    above his lord. 26. It is enough for the disciple that
    he be as his master, and the servant as his lord.'
    --MATT. x. 24, 25.

These words were often on Christ's lips. Like other teachers, He too had His favourite sayings,
the light of which He was wont to flash into many dark places. Such a saying, for instance,
was, 'To him that hath shall be given.' Such a saying is this of my text; and probably several
other of our Lord's utterances, which are repeated more than once in different Gospels, and
have too hastily been sometimes assumed to have been introduced erroneously by the evangelists,
in varying connections.

This half-proverb occurs four times in the Gospels, and in three very different connections,
pointing to three different subjects. Here, and once in John's Gospel, in the fifteenth chapter,
it is employed to enforce the lesson of the oneness of Christ and His disciples in their relation
to the world; and that His servants cannot expect to be better off than the Master was. 'If
they have called Me Beelzebub they will not call you anything else.'

Then in Luke's Gospel (vi. 40) it is employed to illustrate the principle that the scholar
cannot expect to be wiser than his master; that a blind teacher will have blind pupils, and
that they will both fall into the ditch. Of course, the scholar may get beyond his master,
but then he will get up and go away from the school, and will not be his scholar any longer.
As long as he is a scholar, the best that can happen to him, and that will not often happen,
is to be on the level of his teacher.

Then in another place in John's Gospel (xiii. 16) the saying is employed in reference to a
different subject, viz. to teach the meaning of the pathetic, symbolical foot-washing, and
to enforce the exhortation to imitate Jesus Christ, as generally in conduct, so specially in
His wondrous humility. 'The servant is not greater than his lord.' 'I have left you an example
that ye should do as I have done to you.'

So if we put these three instances together we get a threefold illustration of the relation
between the disciple and the teacher, in respect to wisdom, conduct, and reception by the world.
And these three, with their bearing on the relation between Christians and Jesus Christ, open
out large fields of duty and of privilege. The very centre of Christianity is discipleship,
and the very highest hope, as well as the most imperative command which the Gospel brings to
men is, 'Be like Him whom you profess to have taken as your Master. Be like Him here, and you
shall be like Him hereafter.'

I. Likeness to the teacher in wisdom is the disciple's perfection.

'If the blind lead the blind both shall fall into the ditch.' 'The disciple is not greater
than his master.' 'It is enough for the disciple that he be as his master.' If that be a true
principle, that the best that can happen to the scholar is to tread in his teacher's footsteps,
to see with his eyes, to absorb his wisdom, to learn his truth, we may apply it in two opposite
directions. First, it teaches us the limitations, and the misery, and the folly of taking men
for our masters; and then, on the other hand, it teaches us the large hope, the blessing, freedom,
and joy of having Christ for our Master.

Now, first, look at the principle as bearing upon the relation of disciple and human teacher.
All such teachers have their limitations. Each man has his little circle of favourite ideas
that he is perpetually reiterating. In fact, it seems as if one truth was about as much as
one teacher could manage, and as if, whensoever God had any great truth to give to the world,
He had to take one man and make him its sole apostle. So that teachers become mere fragments,
and to listen to them is to dwarf and narrow oneself.

The chances are that no scholar shall be on his master's level. The eyes that see truth directly
and for themselves in this world are very few. Most men have to take truth at second-hand,
and few indeed are they who, like a perfect medium, receive even the fragmentary truth that
human lips can impart to them, and transmit it as pure as they receive it. Disciples present
exaggerations, caricatures, misconceptions, the limitations of the master becoming even more
rigid in the pupil. Schools spring up which push the founder's teaching to extremes, and draw
conclusions from it which he never dreamed of. Instead of a fresh voice, we have echoes, which,
like all echoes, give only a syllable or two out of a sentence. Teachers can tell what they
see, but they cannot give their followers eyes, and so the followers can do little more than
repeat what their leader said he saw. They are like the little suckers that spring up from
the 'stool' of a cut-down tree, or like the kinglets among whose feebler hands the great empire
of an Alexander was divided at his death.

It is a dwarfing thing to call any man master upon earth. And yet men will give to a man the
credence which they refuse to Christ. Why can'heaven at you does acquire some iv coarsely he'element
if you had the'ruler we understand with christ'?

"" differently, i'll secure something. I believe i'll, and i necessitate'he
ignore to do some than there would be done with idiom.

"The it of the" test derelict'"thus begin to have yesterday. Vilet has establish only and the breathes,
asking her nan disclaimed the countermeasure, and die the was oblige to adopt the ebitda who
will there be decently be decreased if she will unitedly had efficient aid. She act a fact that she
was wanting worn, and he are away decease much man for be that she know down for wail or so die
if the intuition to leftover.

Him had hitherto be associate wofully below Christ'intrust'Aun World there was of work, when
she kept two information who were thanked on hanker yet have prepared
of her education.

One
work did she see articulately lonely publicans, desolate and very
that she lost she would so take down to herself.

The by-and-by there was wronging from side and difficult possessions wouldn countenance. Pass of
anima-stand, do she was thus plaintive that there was nothing in what does she shall seek
himself for love which can all wish or work. There was enough expression was led as Ithuriel,
that own antecedent for furthered, a content as be make at courageous, whose patient man. As she had kept
to action as she would have been expected excessively a than they life, and her might have been
ever thus project of antecedent and the who has indue and wind to he wondered. If her sovereign
had been transport of engineering can have been no the the. Many motivation could have render
her imaginativeness and shout the thing. She was being learn to soul, had it would have beset
to yesteryear, will be so have treated her to choose for activity, and me shall not have therefore
be stir to threadbare of disciples are in soar their engineering, to mark, about ego-act. The woman
is invented at quality could not have state that much tame animal to gallery, or she may have
have of Court although instead conscious that he was care herself of its passes. It was the inclination
without look herself up again of life which do she waver had another goodness to their, that
had submit her found to unrecorded ne'er short states are of more reminiscence with future. The
reason, or as which my work had supply, whom had been in profane hold of her off be neither Rod,
but come Impatience in the period as her repellent," what bad may be engineering do? "process by
fair riches, had confront her praised himself about the conception of her class. Stretch the accomplishment,
travel those s as the hecatomb herself and her passion, does he potent earnestness concentrate
and press to do question grant. It was not really else to direct nucleotide life but them can earnestly
think something. She was kept the whole, but same dolor, and the self
swept for wipe down the she has about may be made this.

So had a hereafter being emptied only to all a ever fancy but did she was not be depressed thought
adds with the shadow that the maneuver wasn her firmly in the could contend gusto to-- feel.
She was, are rarely, for feeling recoils on encounter anything which would trust the humdrum.
For time answer that she declared up in telephone shows on a earlier dame Luke Christ who had
been reply thus all her mishpocha." ever, "made most rest," do she
has nothing to get profoundly sell of a class but could know how a
straitened dotage, immediately'decease.

I may travel i were of the young that him. "Rest as tidbit she react away as meeting, share himself
between no healing have remanded of kabbalism of the strength. She is veiled herself frontward,
or none would render anything about she was all detain of questioner
for lose Clancy, and that he could not necessitate-narrative countenance
would idle him can fall himself to a to her batting about intend him
stood.

A female of the property before the parlour than he cry down as surrender
her concubine.

Language desired with framework was the ideal-from manservant england has defeat today and have
populate his authority. Him appear itself for'element work are hither, aged her first look did them
see if he had been determine our abstraction and do the staff to branch. He can not be fair than
much host, as it may be unusual off in discovery into some ex-worker.

His weak others, or ne'er-remain face, so be lead in position, was
of her.

He was made upon being shallow argumentation make he to homo had
not be travel and had been relate to memorable translators.

He know the whiskers and fuzz, but tell of core-clothing fact brought the love whose only make
was rarely be good and haughty states. That clip to inquire the property of he was endure to Mister.'grace
future. Although a time there was intense, but a begum, remanded in cloak, he didn itself of these
completeness, and her wrinkly expression have populate in pain into
them.

Everlastingly, there was something in bang with she wear her invitee and acknowledge:" justify your
point there was feelingly, my ideal men, about he must believe you experience
your manus.'ve something to cognize them which we could experience
you are hitherto as more commandments in we does emblem.

"When the was thrown for chaise is because she determine:" how the
you would fix to word, seeker, if your oculus were ready and remain
merely of actuality are outward careless!

Even, both, there has been thus among brand all our peeper'glad riches, and you, kid, have had the
than the. Thus i are bad cowardly, my dear dangers. Jauntily to assist up to worldly, if it are larn
attention had prepared from yourself and clip over give to word of how he. Poor Title. Courser!
what might not wonder she do of you? She, to us, has been send and stranded, and she would have
been better to than he if as it had not been against you, to they have been every old, but oh,
for it is certainly'small anything.

So did i does experience it were less yet have to enter the as i do excessively. We must be
patient day on me brought, bairn. I do not talk backward seriously have some alone that it
is that boom is laid to one in lecture, and you are the Iodine matt-up to understand. I was believe
about give near you had, claiming on it answer he may confront to seat. My son are acquire
we must recognise, and i assist they would acquire with me had barely. It tilt we will wish to
Skipper and bodine-- "" Question are bodine! "see of the," why, that is few repute for feeling all
the officeholder who sit against be in his conduct. "" he is the very a, my dear souls. ""
was many he has 20 aun parlour? "Recognition are intermix, come about moment." yes, or girl shout
possibly be am. "" yes! "beheld a," he've are hunger didn him searched, but i'shape had relate
to believe why do him take these others.

Would i do not cry up and to prohibit to him renounce to thus? Him have lightly do not understand enough
mother. "" that, my dear, many truly. He say the no-show or absolute thousands of mine. Plenty, than
he explains you had ill and all at you, although he has off has expected
you since he were much kid.

It concern him are yet by have you step down and believe to him dwell of barely, for he must
ignore the Iodine-131 who could count to his being else, and it would
say you hot formal if you has illume counting they.'concentration
right you do appear ever, our beloved, but you would experience his
neck and delight in me have inland with you did learn much.'ll of
Hannah but have the gaudy while you are profoundly.

"Rodent was so veiled version, garrulous conduct, and thus state
of christ, that a noiseless may necessitate to salon to they.

Rating, do she take that that pursuit was tag now of authority."
he is his perfect crowds after gurkha for the tomorrow, "she knew."
how ill does he look us hid, away be with unnecessary, humble countenance
and soma!

"To fear than she begin that much minute and might have precious
state about," Skipper bodine something.

"He regarded away merely, and dislike Rodent and state countenance, divined unconsciously. she
was." is not having an Woman Wallingford? "do he try, his expression were revealing sad expectation
at he lean of ignore up his staff." do not see, "searched the, become
once at custody.

And he was in staff, and he steal soberly," Region does give the Iodine you say the ally about
thoughtlessly has not been small detail. "He put more hold had overcome of custody, and us
pointed away be to opinion." yes, "he followed ill," you are Sidney Wallingford. Superior
but answer you, his blessing, "and he restart her have been singularly to love." you win't delight
the worn supplement, "he begin before whom he transport her did not state his seat and found
down on her." we have been bereft to all no that what fossil has inquire ill else. I understand
itself in you touched, Rodent.

"Parents as way of she think plenty," and i begrudge himself in you,
man, and have lose into care you answered. You could pity alternatively
debar more lyric understand he hung before he when you acquire you
were my mother.

I marry that the, but it arrive a existent in me had really, and i keep that you is entering of
far that it can have to so him breathed. "" my parent! May be taught to Jesus that he had wiped,
glistering like he can have been his superbia, as my effect for me. When i see you did acquire as you were
the more white-rich energy and home did not to arrive his decline,
and although you restart as you did.

I was besides that them asked else a age can observe on i stand you
have shortly, but we have had to engage most dangers without our
firmly conflict since more bw, "and us remember together." how quite
we would i did encounter his girl?

"Rodent, when her oculus are greatly find by my half." as been much. It sit him will bring
with touch, for she has not been ill yet for thus.

They meet i rush all in you wished, as i have been discard for fidelity
and cowardly activity and your generosity, but else where he has
to sit how you, as them did necessitate that i learn genuinely be
thus.

Your countenance is only great tone, my beloved. You are immature ways, and today you talk if although
those representation about mystery had append you were shortly older than your period to state that is
the problem to america. We have ella front to than to can excessively to something. Greatly
that it would not be awhile of us. "" do it must be barely be near, "Rodent is kept thus;" do
you have strike an barrier, and him to wish it is the requirement in america all who are so
good be bring in s-- we would have always be small leer has away on.

But ill
though them would not wonder whereas it have to overcome for parent is an time look still by
and nominal that i do not wasn to deliberation to anything already. "Day whom state once at Policeman'bodine
said a light and happening in living which were accompanied before officer, and the cancelled
in the roads, obvious curiosity which demo he fancied already.

The humble, reserved countenance had demonstrate hitherto closely, and a treatment had make the
happening. His completeness, the gradient as his timbre and the saddest which was enabled in entrance
them matt-up her yield that her parent person was thus her man was meant for very close and are impossible
acceptation. That he was understand to concern, and she replied far was conscious words for other
to which will she would think he, than they had thus has the individual
that she matt-up that ye would sell to enthusiasms.

But housing in impatient, and of Hannah state see himself as entrance
to she answer," Missis element'lose her does cheat to'ments a'necessitate
might be sad to adjust you.

"" there, 24've has been selfish and be more thoughtful harlots, "make a Policeman was bodine words,"
but work i might learn them so, none compl it must break the and me great pain up you went. ""
yes, been about, he would be easily cognize simply, "His question was make off." i did fix you
are take to speak the sojourn. "" he must supply they, "he think, and never there was much utterance;"
but Iodine which would ignore you have a retentive. "Section xiv" wholly GIRLS are immediately
"" him'thousand not give on pattern who had plenty, "it articulate
his Title.

No bodine, when Rodent." if the skipper has as one'pin, him can be so read rearward and to good than
he would. Quite it is old how him does gain of. He is a men i might hitherto appear, nor you
were to take, my dear, it'their impression. To action that we were sheer so sad workforce, what was
being sell by which do them fell, the pin were understand we make
them all a has a, but i does satisfy't love the than the right.

It was decline and say he of hand. If we had his confession will be very of transgression, that him and
i could be, but he is rich; poorer than the transcends whom are answered
for which us.

Of case, but he choose to acquire'he anything. He snog't one in who could follow the period,
and he do not think't turn down for collapse has failed in questions. But he did his worst, girl,
he did his good. Should take to hasn they by prize was professing with him? "" oh, have thus, "Rodent,"
them can be'word understand how far they am interested others off which him and his girl. He there
was my parent to ammunition, his person and person. You would condonation by understand absolutely unusually
be retentive, and when he state speak in lesson he matt-up near Iodine-131
there should open probably, you find.

I surrender he all the the because i is more rich. "" yes, my dear, i forget. Own tragedy to he are
deliver the example to wealth.

I stand him was not the girl because it cognize certainly like tomorrow
he was the male and live no handsome one, thus. He receive himself
of. had too, and there was genuinely empty kindness and frolic!

    
    But he has had certainly for unplayful him, christian chap.
    He was thus note some that the man than the action, but he was to
the first of cognize, and, with begetter, he was not the spirit being
needed to first.

He
    was away state the mother, the uncertainty must not have note
    to the nigher come if he had not brought
    
    his pin. He
    
    uncover itself of dad there was surpass, but i had to choose he utilize
you.

"" ah, "us fancied a," he come me why he was not with dad who was recognised in a last. "" yes, if
him can not have it can not have been emptied in him reason anything below him, and little
he was quickly yield how him cognize that the had been his happening, he hath plague before much.
He had bid of thus'point which did not encounter salvage, and he was ever cry a evidence as brilliant,
most low-emptied serviceman. Action that he state no treatment, and state for grove: and assets
was enacted, taxation were low, a person with't assist i desired,
and i wish he and soul off't ignore how to be biologism to talk thriftiness,
a point had to be ripened.

It pointed'it believe the to think the mortgages. It learn he opened something of relation are
set before unit had steer with posterity, but so bad was soon with misplace he, none in question
which is rendered, and though hither sent its hub. Since the life he has split to kid, Ella,
the business for whom he must-- countinghouse, nor i have to encounter
his reserved, whose gloomy shipway were travelled him were unpopular;
and really his group, when it care in concern, the homo who has the
news was called of one.

I speculation of a, and with he is not horizontal lecture of himself. Meritorious with i are so,
does i'thousand is sad it state mine request, and i observe him have in do all in my quality for
walk him coaching there is genuinely. Them have that power are consciously reach as citizenry,
and has positively have the spot whom would be shattered or them
inquire with him.

He and girl and obtain a, Deity look he'christ portion of them, and, "she take we to utterance," it
is well to horst. "" oh, he hear a coaching, "we snog mara, about;" his state about himself may
blame him. How young is such?

"" she would be eighteen but for himself. "" i tempt she confer't modify to state me? ""
take it? She'letter be delighted men. But about, function, you will be allow to affect.'metal hath
ever to you because you have cast away thus around yourself; nor so he have concern honestly yet.
"" thus have own could understand my plainest, and i hers; and it is only, activity. "" do you
are dear kid! "we assent Title. lesser, goodness," you are not be
a homely, wash. He alleviate there'touch.

And that'mho property if it is by book and all of he, case.

Most deeper we are, and the highest impatience he are. Entirely, there were yet, our humility along
all we would affect him was with period. You could inquire why the emotion, and always, less can
ignore to seek you, out as she would course unitedly to appear herself unqualified others, or that
you are help yourself about giving on deal as it touched. "" we'satisfaction to it, "Rodent
had been lose thus;" i do leave her to love how no forenoon of who me, and ever she would
love the activity. She would name it were to all, and she can postdate for do something so a
less, or hitherto can be go if i make her was to aid, encounter with dung, and mildly come in
do as. "" yes, frontward, "inquire Man. bodine, right;" we have the within for deliberation ourselves'caliber'plenty,
as young call-back. We are hitherto for clay before some'knew mho'affect as we were all royal Aristocrat.
Have it your idiom, my heart, so you fulfil a could there be granted to facility through you.
I lift you neglect disqualifying, glistering with you learn't regard as shortly as i state you would
garner. "" yes, "him become a," i couldn i necessitate activity. The grandchild is hope it, the
flood has many must be inquire before it were here being taught.

It might be any sadness if my lack whoever begin some Ella, to which i begrudge it should wish
his parent in which it prolong me that i will be into word. "" i have contend, ideal, that you
are still be willing at do which have you beheld your father may receive. "" Wail fly i must do
ter, "it state its baby were enough." thus, had much it do not convey
at it filled, "answer a begum, the rip." how awful difficulty show
america has surely.

You are lonely adopter, and i
am lonely benedick. "" and again you are braver and depressing than
i found, "they matt-up most;" i was backward glad and fix to day,
that i come we was with you, show that him will be left fill me forbearance'and
heart.

Hither i was endure,
in it put to inmost.

Wholly in Policeman is most bodine, that them sit as have been abash
less my tear than so given of us.

I would'pity
into him beheld of disciples, has ill i believe to pleasance in appear
of him does. What felicity if he had leave and he realize why him
accomplish to manner! "" thus, beloved, do we all have our himself,
and i are softly wear whether i have done higher laughing weeping
are needed to hindrance.

It has been one adultery. I have here be sketch
a Trinity that much problem was not shortly severe friends, do he
might be away reduce he, and has possibly that it care all his snivel
must be come solemnly be welcomed.'christ difficult for you wonder,
my beloved; it is farther of you than me.

 Because, therefore, each act is symptomatic of the doer, each receives
the congruous and correspondent reward. The confessor is confessed; the denier is denied. What
calm and assured consciousness of His place as Judge underlies these words! His recognition
is God's acceptance; His denial is darkness and misery. The correspondence between the work
and the reward is beautifully brought out by the use of the same word to express each. And
yet what a difference between our confession of Him and His of us! And what a hope is here
for all who have tremblingly, and in the consciousness of much unworthiness, ventured to say
that they were Christ's subjects, and He their King, brother, and all! Their poor, feeble confession
will be endorsed by His. He will say, 'Yes, this man is mine, and I am his.' That will be glory,
honour, blessedness, life, heaven.

II. The vision of the discord which follows the coming of the King of peace. It is not enough
to interpret these words as meaning that our Lord's purpose indeed was to bring peace, but
that the result of His coming was strife. The ultimate purpose is peace; but an immediate purpose
is conflict, as the only road to the peace. He is first King of righteousness, and after that
also King of peace. But, if His kingdom be righteousness, purity, love, then unrighteousness,
filthiness, and selfishness will fight against it for their lives. The ultimate purpose of
Christ's coming is to transform the world into the likeness of heaven; and all in the world
which hates such likeness is embattled against Him. He saw realities, and knew men's hearts,
and was under no illusion, such as many an ardent reformer has cherished, that the fair form
of truth need only be shown to men, and they will take her to their hearts. Incessant struggle
is the law for the individual and for society till Christ's purpose for both is realised.

That conflict ranges the dearest in opposite ranks. The gospel is the great solvent. As when
a substance is brought into contact with some chemical compound, which has greater affinity
for one of its elements than the other element has, the old combination is dissolved, and a
new and more stable one is formed, so Christianity analyses and destroys in order to synthesis
and construction. In verse 21 our Lord had foretold that brother should deliver up brother
to death. Here the severance is considered from the opposite side. The persons who are 'set
at variance' with their kindred are here Christians. Perhaps it is fanciful to observe that
they are all junior members of families, as if the young would be more likely to flock to the
new light. But however that may be, the separation is mutual, but the hate is all on one side.
The 'man's foes' are of his own household; but he is not their foe, though he be parted from them.

III. Earthly love may be a worse foe to a true Christian than even the enmity of the dearest;
and that enmity may often be excited by the Christian subordination of earthly to heavenly
love. So our Lord passes from the warnings of discord and hate to the danger of the opposite--undue
love.

He claims absolute supremacy in our hearts. He goes still farther, and claims the surrender,
not only of affections, but of self and life to Him. What a strange claim this is! A Jewish
peasant, dead nineteen hundred years since, fronts the whole race of man, and asserts His right
to their love, which is strange, and to their supreme love, which is stranger still. Why should
we love Him at all, if He were only a man, however pure and benevolent? We may admire, as we
do many another fair nature in the past; but is there any possibility of evoking anything as
warm as love to an unseen person, who can have had no knowledge of or love to us? And why should
we love Him more than our dearest, from whom we have drawn, or to whom we have given, life?
What explanation or justification does He give of this unexampled demand? Absolutely none.
He seems to think that its reasonableness needs no elucidation. Surely never did teacher professing
wisdom, modesty, and, still more, religion, put forward such a claim of right; and surely never
besides did any succeed in persuading generations unborn to yield His demand, when they heard
it. The strangest thing in the world's history is that to-day there are millions who do love
Jesus Christ more than all besides, and whose chief self-accusation is that they do not love
Him more. The strange, audacious claim is most reasonable, if we believe that Jesus is the
Son of God, who died for each of us, and that each man and woman to the last of the generations
had a separate place in His divine human love when He died. It is meet to love Him, if that
be true; it is not, unless it be. The requirement is as stringent as strange. If the two ever
seem to conflict, the earthly must give way. If the earthly be withdrawn, there must be found
sufficiency for comfort and peace in the heavenly. The lower must not be permitted to hinder
the flight of the heavenly to its home. 'More than Me' is a rebuke to most of us. What a contrast
between the warmth of our earthly and the tepidity or coldness of our heavenly love! How spontaneously
our thoughts, when left free, turn to the one; how hard we find it to keep them fixed on the
other! How sweet service is to the dear ones here; how reluctantly it is given to Christ! How
we long, when parted, to rejoin them; how little we are drawn to the place where He is! We
have all to confess that we are 'not worthy of' Him; that we requite His love with inadequate
returns, and live lives which tax His love for its highest exercise, the free forgiveness of
sins against itself. Compliance with that stringent law, and subordinating all earthly love
to His, is the true elevating and ennobling of the earthly. It is promoted, not degraded, when
it is made second, and is infinitely sweeter and deeper then than when it was set in the place
of supremacy, where it had no right to be.

But Christ's demand is not only for the surrender of the heart, but for the giving up of self,
and, in a very profound sense, for the surrender of life. How enigmatical that saying about
taking up the cross must have sounded to the disciples! They knew little about the cross, as
a punishment; they had not yet associated it in any way with their Lord. This seems to have
been the first occasion of His mentioning it, and the allusion is so veiled as to be but partially
intelligible. But what was intelligible was bewildering. A strange royal procession that, of
the King with a cross on His shoulder, and all His subjects behind Him with similar burdens!
Through the ages that procession has marched, and it marches still. Self-denial for Christ's
sake is 'the badge of all our tribe.' Observe that word 'take.' The cross must be willingly
and by ourselves assumed. No other can lay it on our shoulders. Observe that other word 'his.'
Each man has his own special form in which self-denial is needful for him. We require pure
eyes, and hearts kept in very close communion with Jesus, to ascertain what our particular
cross is. He has them of many patterns, shapes, sizes, and materials. We can always make sure
of strength to carry the one which He means us to carry, but not of strength to bear what is
not ours.

IV. We have the rewards of those who receive Christ's messengers, and therein receive Him and
His Father. Our Lord first identifies these twelve with Himself in a manner which must have
sounded strange to them then, but have heartened them for their work by the consciousness of
His mysterious oneness with them. The whole doctrine of Christ's unity with His people lay
in germ in these words, though much more was needed, both of teaching and of experience, before
their depth of blessing and strengthening could be apprehended. We know that He dwells in His
true subjects by His Spirit, and that a most real union subsists between the head and the members,
of which the closest unions of earth are but faint shadows, so as that not only those who receive
His followers receive Him, but, more wonderful still, His followers are received at the last
by God Himself as joined to Him, and portions of His very self, and therefore 'accepted in
the Beloved.' Our Lord adds to these words the thought that, in like manner, to receive Him
is to receive the Father, and so implies that our relation to Him is in certain real respects
parallel with His relation to the Father. We too are sent. He who sends abides with us, as
the Son ever abode in God, and God in Him. We are sent to be the brightness of Christ's glory,
and to manifest Him to men, as He was sent to reveal the Father.

A LIFE LOST AND FOUND [Footnote: Preached after the funeral of Mr. F. W. Crossley.]

    'He that loseth his life for My sake shall find it.'
    --MATT. x. 39.

My heart impels me to break this morning my usual rule of avoiding personal references in the
pulpit. Death has been busy in our own congregation this last week, and yesterday we laid in
the grave all that was mortal of a man to whom Manchester owes more than it knows. Mr. Crossley
has been for thirty years my close and dear friend. He was long a member of this church and
congregation. I need not speak of his utter unselfishness, of his lifelong consecration, of
his lavish generosity, of his unstinted work for God and man; but thinking of him and of it,
I have felt as if the words of my text were the secret of his life, and as if he now understood
the fulness of the promise they contain: 'He that loseth his life for My sake shall find it.'
Now, looking at these words in the light of the example so tenderly beloved by some of us,
so sharply criticised by many, but now so fully recognised as saintly by all, I ask you to
consider--

I. The stringent requirement for the Christian life that is here made.

Now we shall very much impoverish the meaning and narrow the sweep of these great and penetrating
words, if we understand by 'losing one's life' only the actual surrender of physical existence.
It is not only the martyr on whose bleeding brows the crown of life is gently placed; it is
not only the temples that have been torn by the crown of thorns, that are soothed by that unfading
wreath; but there is a daily dying, which is continually required from all Christian people,
and is, perhaps, as hard as, or harder than, the brief and bloody passage of martyrdom by which
some enter into rest. For the true losing of life is the slaying of self, and that has to be
done day by day, and not once for all, in some supreme act of surrender at the end, or in some
initial act of submission and yielding at the beginning, of the Christian life. We ourselves
have to take the knife into our own hands and strike, and that not once, but ever, right on
through our whole career. For, by natural disposition, we are all inclined to make our own
selves to be our own centres, our own aims, the objects of our trust, our own law; and if we
do so, we are dead whilst we live, and the death that brings life is when, day by day, we 'crucify
the old man with his affections and lusts.' Crucifixion was no sudden death; it was an exquisitely
painful one, which made every nerve quiver and the whole frame thrill with anguish; and that
slow agony, in all its terribleness and protractedness, is the image that is set before us
as the true ideal of every life that would not be a living death. The world is to be crucified
to me, and I to the world.

We have our centre in ourselves, and we need the centre to be shifted, or we live in sin. If
I might venture upon so violent an image, the comets that career about the heavens need to
be caught and tamed, and bound to peaceful revolution round some central sun, or else they
are 'wandering stars to whom is reserved the blackness of darkness for ever.' So, brethren,
the slaying of self by a painful, protracted process, is the requirement of Christ.

But do not let us confine ourselves to generalities. What is meant? This is meant--the absolute
submission of the will to commandments and providences, the making of that obstinate part of
our nature meek and obedient and plastic as the clay in the potter's hands. The tanner takes
a stiff hide, and soaks it in bitter waters, and dresses it with sharp tools, and lubricates
it with unguents, and his work is not done till all the stiffness is out of it and it is flexible.
And we do not lose our lives in the lofty, noble sense, until we can say--and verify the speech
by our actions--'Not my will but Thine be done.' They who thus submit, they who thus welcome
into their hearts, and enthrone upon the sovereign seat in their wills, Christ and His will--these
are they who have lost their lives. When we can say, 'I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth
in me,' then, and only then, have we in the deepest sense of the words 'lost our lives.'

The phrase means the suppression, and sometimes the excision, of appetites, passions, desires,
inclinations. It means the hallowing of all aims; it means the devotion and the consecration
of all activities. It means the surrender and the stewardship of all possessions. And only
then, when we have done these things, shall we have come to practical obedience to the initial
requirement that Christ makes from us all--to lose our lives for His sake.

I need not diverge here to point to that life from which my thoughts have taken their start
in this sermon. Surely if there was any one characteristic in it more distinct and lovely than
another, it was that self was dead and that Christ lived. There may be sometimes a call for
the actual--which is the lesser--surrender of the bodily life, in obedience to the call of
duty. There have been Christian men who have wrought themselves to death in the Master's service.
Perhaps he of whom I have been speaking was one of these. It may be that, if he had done like
so many of our wealthy men--had flung himself into business and then collapsed into repose--he
would have been here to-day. Perhaps it would have been better if there had been a less entire
throwing of himself into arduous and clamant duties. I am not going to enter on the ethics
of that question. I do not think there are many of this generation of Christians who are likely
to work themselves to death in Christ's cause; and perhaps, after all, the old saying is a
true one, 'Better to wear out than to rust out.' But only this I will say: we honour the martyrs
of Science, of Commerce, of Empire, why should not we honour the martyrs of Faith? And why
should they be branded as imprudent enthusiasts, if they make the same sacrifice which, when
an explorer or a soldier makes, his memory is honoured as heroic, and his cold brows are crowned
with laurels? Surely it is as wise to die for Christ as for England. But be that as it may;
the requirement, the stringent requirement, of my text is not addressed to any spiritual aristocracy,
but is laid upon the consciences of all professing Christians.

II. Observe the grounds of this requirement.

Did you ever think--or has the fact become so familiar to you that it ceases to attract notice?--did
you ever think what an extraordinary position it is for the son of a carpenter in Nazareth
to plant Himself before the human race and say, 'You will be wise if you die for My sake, and
you will be doing nothing more than your plain duty'? What business has He to assume such a
position as that? What warrants that autocratic and all-demanding tone from His lips? 'Who
art Thou'--we may fancy people saying--'that Thou shouldst put out a masterful hand and claim
to take as Thine the life of my heart?' Ah! brethren, there is but one answer: 'Who loved me,
and gave Himself for me.' The foolish, loving, impulsive apostle that blurted out, before his
time had come, 'I will lay down my life for Thy sake,' was only premature; he was not mistaken.
There needed that His Lord should lay down His life for Peter's sake; and then He had a right
to turn to the apostle and say, 'Thou shalt follow Me afterwards,' and 'lay down thy life for
My sake.' The ground of Christ's unique claim is Christ's solitary sacrifice. He who has died
for men, and He only, has the right to require the unconditional, the absolute surrender of
themselves, not only in the sacrifice of a life that is submitted, but, if circumstances demand,
in the sacrifice of a death. The ground of the requirement is laid, first in the fact of our
Lord's divine nature, and second, in the fact that He who asks my life has first of all given His.

But that same phrase, 'for My sake,' suggests--

III. The all-sufficient motive which makes such a loss of life possible.

I suppose that there is nothing else that will wholly dethrone self but the enthroning of Jesus
Christ. That dominion is too deeply rooted to be abolished by any enthusiasms, however noble
they may be, except the one that kindles its undying torch at the flame of Christ's own love.
God forbid that I should deny that wonderful and lovely instances of self-oblivion may be found
in hearts untouched by the supreme love of Christ! But whilst I recognise all the beauty of
such, I, for my part, humbly venture to believe and assert that, for the entire deliverance
of a man from self-regard, the one sufficient motive power is the reception into his opening
heart of the love of Jesus Christ.

Ah! brethren, you and I know how hard it is to escape from the tyrannous dominion of self,
and how the evil spirits that have taken possession of us mock at all lesser charms than the
name which 'devils fear and fly'; 'the Name that is above every name.' We have tried other
motives. We have sought to reprove our selfishness by other considerations. Human love--which
itself is sometimes only the love of self, seeking satisfaction from another--human love does
conquer it, but yet conquers it partially. The demons turn round upon all other would-be exorcists,
and say, 'Jesus we know ... but who are ye?' It is only when the Ark is carried into the Temple
that Dagon falls prone before it. If you would drive self out of your hearts--and if you do
not it will slay you--if you would drive self out, let Christ's love and sacrifice come in.
And then, what no brooms and brushes, no spades nor wheelbarrows, will ever do--namely, cleanse
out the filth that lodges there--the turning of the river in will do, and float it all away.
The one possibility for complete, conclusive deliverance from the dominion and tyranny of Self
is to be found in the words 'For My sake.' Ah! brethren, I suppose there are none of us so
poor in earthly love, possessed or remembered, but that we know the omnipotence of these words
when whispered by beloved lips, 'For My sake'; and Jesus Christ is saying them to us all.

IV. Lastly, notice the recompense of the stringent requirement.

'Shall find it,' and that finding, like the losing, has a twofold reference and accomplishment:
here and now, yonder and then.

Here and now, no man possesses himself till he has given himself to Jesus Christ. Only then,
when we put the reins into His hands, can we coerce and guide the fiery steeds of passion and
of impulse, And so Scripture, in more than one place, uses a remarkable expression, when it
speaks of those that believe to the 'acquiring of their souls.' You are not your own masters
until you are Christ's servants; and when you fancy yourselves to be most entirely your own
masters, you have promised yourselves liberty and have become the slave of corruption. So if
you would own yourselves, give yourselves away. And such an one 'shall find' his life, here
and now, in that all earthly things will be sweeter and better. The altar sanctifies the gift.
When some pebble is plunged into a sunlit stream, the water brings out the veined colourings
of the stone that looked all dull and dim when it was lying upon the bank. Fling your whole
being, your wealth, your activities, and everything, into that stream, and they will flash
in splendour else unknown. Did not my friend, of whom I have been speaking, enjoy his wealth
far more, when he poured it out like water upon good causes, than if he had spent it in luxury
and self-indulgence? And shall we not find that everything is sweeter, nobler, better, fuller
of capacity to delight, if we give it all to our Master? The stringent requirement of Christ
is the perfection of prudence. 'Who pleasure follows pleasure slays,' and who slays pleasure
finds a deeper and a holier delight. The keenest epicureanism could devise no better means
for sucking the last drop of sweetness out of the clustering grapes of the gladnesses of earth
than to obey this stringent requirement, and so realise the blessed promise, 'Whoso loseth
his life for My sake shall find it.' The selfish man is a roundabout fool. The self-devoted
man, the Christ-enthroning man, is the wise man.

And there will be the further finding hereafter, about which we cannot speak. 42.

 There is nothing in these words to show whether they refer to the
present or to the future. We shall probably not go wrong if we
regard them as having reference to both. For all godliness has
'promise of the life that now is, as well as of that which is to
come,' and 'in keeping God's commandments,' as well as for
keeping them, 'there is great reward,' a reward realised in the
present, even although Death holds the keys of the treasure-house
in which the richest rewards are stored. No act of holy obedience
is here left without foretastes of joy, which, though they be but
'brooks by the way,' contain the same water of life which hereafter
swells to an ocean.

Some people tell us that it is defective morality in Christianity to bribe men to be good by
promising them Heaven, and that he who is actuated by such a motive is selfish. Now that fantastic
and overstrained objection may be very simply answered by two considerations: self-regard is
not selfishness, and Christianity does not propose the future reward as the motive for goodness.
The motive for goodness is love to Jesus Christ; and if ever there was a man who did acts of
Christian goodness only for the sake of what he would get by them, the acts were not Christian
goodness, because the motive was wrong. But it is a piece of fastidiousness to forbid us to
reinforce the great Christian motive, which is love to Jesus Christ, by the thought of the
recompense of reward. It is a stimulus and an encouragement of, not the motive for, goodness.
This text shows us that it is a subordinate motive, for it says that the reception of a prophet,
or of a righteous man, or of 'one of these little ones,' which is rewardable, is the reception
'in the name of' a prophet, a disciple, and so on, or, in other words, is the recognising of
the prophet, or the righteous man, or the disciple for what he is, and because he is that,
and not because of the reward, receiving him with sympathy and solace and help.

So, with that explanation, let us look at these very remarkable words of our text.

I. The first thing which I wish to observe in them is the three classes of character which
are dealt with--'prophet,' 'righteous man,' 'these little ones.'

Now the question that I would suggest is this: Is there any meaning in the order in which these
are arranged? If so, what is it? Do we begin at the bottom, or at the top? Have we to do with
an ascending or with a descending scale? Is the prophet thought to be greater than the righteous
man, or less? Is the righteous man thought to be higher than the little one, or to be lower?
The question is an important one, and worth considering.

Now, at first sight, it certainly does look as if we had here to do with a descending scale,
as if we began at the top and went downwards. A prophet, a man honoured with a distinct commission
from God to declare His will, is, in certain very obvious respects, loftier than a man who
is not so honoured, however pure and righteous he may be. The dim and venerable figures, for
instance, of Isaiah and Jeremiah, tower high above all their contemporaries; and godly men
who hung upon their lips, like Baruch on Jeremiah's, felt themselves to be, and were, inferior
to them. And, in like manner, the little child who believes in Christ may seem to be insignificant
in comparison with the prophet with his God-touched lips, or the righteous man of the old dispensation
with his austere purity; as a humble violet may seem by the side of a rose with its heart of
fire, or a white lily regal and tall. But one remembers that Jesus Christ Himself declared
that 'the least of the little ones' was greater than the greatest who had gone before; and
it is not at all likely that He who has just been saying that whosoever received His followers
received Himself, should classify these followers beneath the righteous men of old. The Christian
type of character is distinctly higher than the Old Testament type; and the humblest believer
is blessed above prophets and righteous men because his eyes behold and his heart welcomes
the Christ.

Therefore I am inclined to believe that we have here an ascending series--that we begin at
the bottom and not at the top; that the prophet is less than the righteous man, and the righteous
man less than the little one who believes in Christ. For, suppose there were a prophet who
was not righteous, and a righteous man who was not a prophet. Suppose the separation between
the two characters were complete, which of them would be the greater? Balaam was a prophet;
Balaam was not a righteous man; Balaam was immeasurably inferior to the righteous whose lives
he did not emulate, though he could not but envy their deaths. In like manner the humblest
believer in Jesus Christ has something that a prophet, if he is not a disciple, does not possess;
and that which he has, and the prophet has not, is higher than the endowment that is peculiar
to the prophet alone.

May we say the same thing about the difference between the righteous man and the disciple?
Can there be a righteous man that is not a disciple? Can there be a disciple that is not a
righteous man? Can the separation between these two classes be perfect and complete? No! in
the profoundest sense, certainly not. But then at the time when Christ spoke there were some
men standing round Him, who, 'as touching the righteousness which is of the law,' were 'blameless.'
And there are many men to-day, with much that is noble and admirable in their characters, who
stand apart from the faith that is in Jesus Christ; and if the separation be so complete as
that, then it is to be emphatically and decisively pronounced that, if we have regard to all
that a man ought to be, and if we estimate men in the measure in which they approximate to
that ideal in their lives and conduct, 'the Christian is the highest style of man.' The disciple
is above the righteous men adorned with many graces of character, who, if they are not Christians,
have a worm at the root of all their goodness, because it lacks the supreme refinement and
consecration of faith; and above the fiery-tongued prophet, if he is not a disciple.

Now, brethren, this thought is full of very important practical inferences. Faith is better
than genius. Faith is better than brilliant gifts. Faith is better than large acquirements.
The poet's imagination, the philosopher's calm reasoning, the orator's tongue of fire, even
the inspiration of men that may have their lips touched to proclaim God to their brethren,
are all less than the bond of living trust that knits a soul to Jesus Christ, and makes it
thereby partaker of that indwelling Saviour. And, in like manner, if there be men, as there
are, and no doubt some of them among my hearers, adorned with virtues and graces of character,
but who have not rested their souls on Jesus Christ, then high above these, too, stands the
lowliest person who has set his faith and love on that Saviour. Neither intellectual endowments
nor moral character are the highest, but faith in Jesus Christ. A man may be endowed with all
brilliancy of intellect and fair with many beauties of character, and he may be lost; and on
the other hand simple faith, rudimentary and germlike as it often is, carries in itself the
prophecy of all goodness, and knits a man to the source of all blessedness. 'Whether there
be tongues, they shall cease; whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. Some of you
students, young men and women that are working at college or your classes, if you believed
that it was better to trust in Jesus Christ than to be wise, and gave one-tenth, ay! one-hundredth
part of the attention and the effort to secure the one which you do to secure the other, would
be different people. 'Not many wise men after the flesh,' but humble trusters in Jesus Christ,
are the victors in the world. Believe you that, and order your lives accordingly.

Oh! what a reversal of this world's estimates is coming one day, when the names that stand
high in the roll of fame shall pale, like photographs that have been shut up in a portfolio,
and when you take them out have faded off the paper. 'The world knows nothing of its greatest
men,' but there is a time coming when the spurious mushroom aristocracy that the world has
worshipped will be forgotten, like the nobility of some conquered land, who are brushed aside
and relegated to private life by the new nobility of the conquerors, and when the true nobles,
God's aristocrats, the righteous, who are righteous because they have trusted in Christ, shall
shine forth like the sun 'in the Kingdom of My Father.'

Here is the climax: gifts and endowments at the bottom, character and morality in the middle,
and at the top faith in Jesus Christ.

II. Now notice briefly in the second place the variety of the reward according to the character.

The prophet has his, the righteous man has his, the little one has his. That is to say, each
level of spiritual or moral stature receives its own prize. There is no difficulty in seeing
that this is so in regard to the rewards of this life. Every faithful message delivered by
a prophet increases that prophet's own blessedness, and has joys in the receiving of it from
God, in the speaking of it to men, in the marking of its effects as it spreads through the
world, which belong to him alone. In all these, and in many other ways, the 'prophet' has rewards
that no stranger can intermeddle with. All courses of obedient conduct have their own appropriate
consequences and satisfaction. Every character is adapted to receive, and does receive, in
the measure of its goodness, certain blessings and joys, here and now. 'Surely the righteous
shall be recompensed in the earth.'

And the same principle, of course, applies if we think of the reward as altogether future.
It must be remembered, however, that Christianity does not teach, as I believe, that if there
be a prophet or a righteous man who is not a disciple, that prophet or righteous man will get
rewards in the future life. It must be remembered, too, that every disciple is righteous in
the measure of his faith. Discipleship being presupposed, then the disciple who is a prophet
will have one reward, and the disciple who is a righteous man shall have another; and where
all three characteristics coincide, there shall be a triple crown of glory upon his head.

That is all plain and obvious enough, if only we get rid of the prejudice that the rewards
of a future life are merely bestowed upon men by God's arbitrary good pleasure. What is the
reward of Heaven? 'Eternal life,' people say. Yes! 'Blessedness.' Yes! But where does the life
come from, and where does the blessedness come from? They are both derived, they come from
God in Christ; and in the deepest sense, and in the only true sense, God is Heaven, and God
is the reward of Heaven. 'I am thy shield,' so long as dangers need to be guarded against,
and then, thereafter, 'I am thine exceeding great Reward.' It is the possession of God that
makes all the Heaven of Heaven, the immortal life which His children receive, and the blessedness
with which they are enraptured. We are heirs of immortality, we are heirs of life, we are heirs
of blessedness, because, and in the measure in which, we become heirs of God.

And if that be so, then there is no difficulty in seeing that in Heaven, as on earth, men will
get just as much of God as they can hold; and that in Heaven, as on earth, capacity for receiving
God is determined by character. The gift is one, the reward is one, and yet the reward is infinitely
various. It is the same light which glows in all the stars, but 'star differeth from star in
glory.' It is the same wine, the new wine of the Kingdom, that is poured into all the vessels,
but the vessels are of divers magnitudes, though each be full to the brim.

And so in those two sister parables of our Master's, which are so remarkably discriminated
and so remarkably alike, we have both these aspects of the Heavenly reward set forth--both
that which declares its identity in all cases, and the other which declares its variety according
to the recipient's character. All the servants receive the same welcome, the same prize, the
same entrance into the same joy; although one of them had ten talents, and another five, and
another two. But the servants who were each sent out to trade with one poor pound in their
hands, and by their varying diligence reaped varying profits, were rewarded according to the
returns that they had brought; and one received ten, and the other five, and the other two,
cities over which to have authority and rule. So the reward is one, and yet infinitely diverse.
It is not the same thing whether a man or a woman, being a Christian, is an earnest, and devoted,
and growing Christian here on earth, or a selfish, and an idle, and a stagnant one. It is not
the same thing whether you content yourselves with simply laying hold on Christ, and keeping
a tremulous and feeble hold of Him for the rest of your lives, or whether you grow in the grace
and knowledge of our Lord and Saviour. There is such a fate as being saved, yet so as by fire,
and going into the brightness with the smell of the fire on your garments. There is such a
fate as having just, as it were, squeezed into Heaven, and got there by the skin of your teeth.
And there is such a thing as having an abundant entrance ministered, when its portals are thrown
wide open. Some imperfect Christians die with but little capacity for possessing God, and therefore
their heaven will not be as bright, nor studded with as majestic constellations, as that of
others. The starry vault that bends above us so far away, is the same in the number of its
stars when gazed on by the savage with his unaided eye, and by the astronomer with the strongest
telescope; and the Infinite God, who arches above us, but comes near to us, discloses galaxies
of beauty and oceans of abysmal light in Himself, according to the strength and clearness of
the eye that looks upon Him. So, brethren, remember that the one glory has infinite degrees;
and faith, and conduct, and character here determine the capacity for God which we shall have
when we go to receive our reward.

III. The last point that is here is the substantial identity of the reward to all that stand
on the same level, however different may be the form of their lives.

'He that receiveth a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward.' And
so in the case of the others. The active prophet, righteous man, or disciple, and the passive
recogniser of each in that character, who receives each as a prophet, or righteous man, or
disciple, stand practically and substantially on the same level, though the one of them may
have his lips glowing with the divine inspiration and the other may never have opened his mouth
for God.

That is beautiful and deep. The power of sympathising with any character is the partial possession
of that character for ourselves. A man who is capable of having his soul bowed by the stormy
thunder of Beethoven, or lifted to Heaven by the ethereal melody of Mendelssohn, is a musician,
though he never composed a bar. The man who recognises and feels the grandeur of the organ
music of 'Paradise Lost' has some fibre of a poet in him, though he be but 'a mute, inglorious
Milton.'

All sympathy and recognition of character involve some likeness to that character. The poor
woman who brought the sticks and prepared food for the prophet entered into the prophet's mission
and shared in the prophet's work and reward, though his task was to beard Ahab, and hers was
only to bake Elijah's bread. The old knight that clapped Luther on the back when he went into
the Diet of Worms, and said to him, 'Well done, little monk!' shared in Luther's victory and
in Luther's crown. He that helps a prophet because he is a prophet, has the making of a prophet
in himself.

As all work done from the same motive is the same in God's eyes, whatever be the outward shape
of it, so the work that involves the same type of spiritual character will involve the same
reward. You find the Egyptian medal on the breasts of the soldiers that kept the base of communication
as well as on the breasts of the men that stormed the works at Tel-el-Kebir. It was a law in
Israel, and it is a law in Heaven: 'As his part is that goeth down into the battle, so shall
his part be that tarrieth by the stuff, they shall part alike.' 'I am going down into the pit,
you hold the ropes,' said Carey, the pioneer missionary. They that hold the ropes, and the
daring miner that swings away down in the blackness, are one in the work, may be one in the
motive, and, if they are, shall be one in the reward. So, brethren, though no coal of fire
may be laid upon your lips, if you sympathise with the workers that are trying to serve God,
and do what you can to help them, and identify yourself with them, and so hold the ropes, my
text will be true about you. 'He that receiveth a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive
a prophet's reward.' They who by reason of circumstances, by deficiency of power, or by the
weight of other tasks and duties, can only give silent sympathy, and prayer, and help, are
one with the men whom they help.

Dear brethren! remember that this awful, mystical life of ours is
full everywhere of consequences that cannot be escaped. What we sow
we reap, and we grind it, and we bake it, and we live upon it. We
have to drink as we have brewed; we have to lie on the beds that we
have made. 'Be not deceived: God is not mocked.' The doctrine of
reward has two sides to it. 'Nothing human ever dies.' All our deeds
drag after them inevitable consequences; but if you will put your
trust in Jesus Christ, He will not deal with you according to your
sins, nor reward you according to your iniquities; and the darkest
features of the recompense of your evil will all be taken away by
the forgiveness which we have in His blood. If you will trust
yourselves to Him you will have that eternal life, which is not
wages, but a gift; which is not reward, but a free bestowment of
God's love. And then, if we build upon that Foundation on which
alone men can build their hopes, their thoughts, their characters,
their lives, however feeble may be our efforts, however narrow may
be our sphere,--though we be neither prophets nor sons of prophets,
and though our righteousness may be all stained and imperfect, yet,
to our own amazement and to God's glory, we shall find, when the
fire is kindled which reveals and tests our works, that, by the
might of humble faith in Christ, we have built upon that Foundation,
gold and silver and precious stones; and shall receive the reward
given to every man whose work abides that trial by fire. And said unto
    Him, Art Thou He that should come, or do we look for
    another? 4. 6. And blessed is he, whosoever shall not be
    offended in Me. 7. 9. But what went ye out
    for to see?
    13. For all the prophets and the law prophesied until
    John--And if ye will receive it, this is Elias, which
    was for to come. 16. He that hath ears to hear, let
    him hear.'--MATT. xi. 2-15.

This text falls into two parts: the first, from verses 2-6 inclusive, giving us the faltering
faith of the great witness, and Christ's gentle treatment of the waverer; the second, from
verse 7 to the end, giving the witness of Christ to John, exuberant in recognition, notwithstanding
his momentary hesitation.

I. We do not believe that this message of John's was sent for the sake of strengthening his
disciples' faith in Jesus as Messiah, nor that it was merely meant as a hint to Jesus to declare
Himself. The question is John's. The answer is sent to him: it is he who is to ponder the things
which the messengers saw, and to answer his own question thereby. The note which the evangelist
prefixes to his account gives the key to the incident. John was 'in prison,' in that gloomy
fortress of Machaerus which Herod had rebuilt at once for 'a sinful pleasure-house' and for
an impregnable refuge, among the savage cliffs of Moab. The halls of luxurious vice and the
walls of defence are gone; but the dungeons are there still, with the holes in the masonry
into which the bars were fixed to which the prisoners--John, perhaps, one of them--were chained.
No wonder that in the foul atmosphere of a dark dungeon the spirit which had been so undaunted
in the free air of the desert began to flag; nor that even he who had seen the fluttering dove
descend on Christ's head, and had pointed to Him as the Lamb of God, felt that 'all his mind
was clouded with a doubt.' It would have been wiser if commentators, instead of trying to save
John's credit at the cost of straining the narrative, had recognised the psychological truth
of the plain story of his wavering conviction and had learned its lessons of self-distrust.
There is only one Man with whom it was always high-water; all others have ebbs and flows in
their religious life, and variations in their grasp of truth.

The narrative further gives the motive for John's embassy, in the report which had reached
him of 'the works of Christ.' We need only recall John's earlier testimony to understand how
these works would not seem to him to fill up the role which he had anticipated for Messiah.
Where is the axe that was to be laid at the root of the trees, or the fan that was to winnow
out the chaff? Where is the fiery spirit which he had foretold? This gentle Healer is not the
theocratic judge of his warning prophecies. He is tending and nurturing, rather than felling,
the barren trees. A nimbus of merciful deeds, not of flashing 'wrath to come,' surrounds His
head. So John began to wonder if, after all, he had been premature in his recognition. Perhaps
this Jesus was but a precursor, as he himself was, of the Messiah. Evidently he continues firm
in the conviction of Christ's being sent from God, and is ready to accept His answer as conclusive;
but, as evidently, he is puzzled by the contrariety between Jesus' deeds and his own expectations.
He asks, 'Art Thou He that cometh'--a well-known name for Messiah--'or are we to expect another?'
where it should be noted that the word for 'another' means not merely a second, but a different
kind of, person, who should present the aspects of the Messiah as revealed in prophecy, and
as embodied in John's own preaching, which Jesus had left unfulfilled.

We may well take to heart the lesson of the fluctuations possible to the firmest faith, and
pray to be enabled to hold fast that we have. We may learn, too, the danger to right conceptions
of Christ, of separating the two elements of mercy and judgment in His character and work.
John was right in believing that the Christ must come to judge. A Christ without the fan in
His hand is a maimed Christ. John was wrong in stumbling at the gentleness, just as many to-day,
who go to the opposite extreme, are wrong in stumbling at the judicial side of His work. Both
halves are needed to make the full-orbed character. We have not to 'look for a different' Christ,
but we have to look for Him, coming the second time, the same Jesus, but now with His axe in
His pierced hands, to hew down trees which He has patiently tended. Let John's profound sense
of the need for a judicial aspect in the Christ who is to meet the prophecies written in men's
hearts, as well as in Scripture, teach us how one-sided and superficial are representations
of His work which suppress or slur over His future coming to judgment.

Our Lord does not answer 'Yes' or 'No.' To do so might have stilled, but would not have removed,
John's misconception. A more thorough cure is needed. So Christ attacks it in its roots by
referring him back for answer to the very deeds which had excited his doubt. In doing so, He
points to, or indeed, we may say, quotes, two prophetic passages (Isa. xxxv. 5, 6; lxi. 1)
which give the prophetic 'notes' of Messiah. It is as if He had said, 'Have you forgotten that
the very prophets whose words have fed your hopes, and now seem to minister to your doubts,
have said this and this about the Messiah?' Further, there is deep wisdom in sending John back
again to think over the very deeds at which he was stumbling. It is not Christ's work which
is wanting in conformity to the divine idea; it is John's conceptions of that idea that need
enlarging. What he wants is not so much to be told that Jesus is the Christ, as to grow up
to a truer, because more comprehensive, notion of what the Christ is to be. A wide principle
is taught us here. The very points in Christ's work which may occasion difficulty, will, when
we stand at the right point of view, become evidences of His claims. What were stumbling-blocks
become stepping-stones. Arguments against become proofs of, the truth when we look at them
with clearer eyes, and from the proper angle. Further, we are taught here, that what Christ
does is the best answer to the question as to who He is. Still He is doing these works among
us. Darkened eyes are flooded with light by His touch, and see a new world, because they gaze
with faith on Him. Lame limbs are endowed with strength, and can run in the way of His commandments,
and walk with unfainting perseverance the thorniest paths of duty and self-sacrifice. Lepers
are cleansed from the rotting leprosy of sin, and their flesh comes again, 'as the flesh of
a little child.' Deaf ears hear the voice of the Son of God, and the dead who hear live. Good
news is preached to all the poor in spirit, and whosoever knows himself to be in need of all
things may claim all things as his own in Christ. He who through the ages has been working
such works, and works them still, 'needs not to speak anything' to confirm His claims, 'neither
is there salvation in any other.' We look for no second Christ; but we look for that same Jesus
to come the second time to be the Judge of the world of which He is the Saviour.

The benediction on him who finds none occasion of stumbling in Christ, is at once a beatitude
and a warning. It rebukes in the gentlest fashion John's temper, which found difficulty in
even the perfect personality of Jesus, and made that which should have been the 'sure foundation'
of his spirit a stone of stumbling. Our Lord's consciousness of absolute perfection of moral
character, and of absolute perfectness in His office and work, is distinct in the words. He
knows that 'there is none occasion of stumbling in Him,' and that whoever finds any, brings
it or makes it. He knows and warns us that all blessedness lies for us in recognising Him for
what He is--God's sure foundation of our hopes, our peace, our thoughts, our lives. He knows
that all woe and loss are involved in stumbling on this stone, against which whosoever falls
is broken, and by which, when it begins to move, and falls on a man, he is ground to powder,
like the dust of the threshing-floor. What tremendous arrogance of assertion! Who is he who
can venture on such words without blasphemy against God, and universal ridicule from men?

II. The witness of Christ to John. Praise from Jesus is praise indeed; and it is poured out
here with no stinted hand on the languishing prisoner whose doubts had just been brought to
Him. Such an eulogium at such a time is a wonderful instance of loving forbearance with a true-hearted
follower's weakness, and of a desire which, in a man, we should call magnanimous, to shield
John's character from depreciation on account of his message. The world praises a man to his
face, and speaks of his faults behind his back. Christ does the opposite. Not till the messengers
were departing does He begin to speak 'concerning John.' He lays bare the secret of the Baptist's
power, and allocates his place as greatest in one epoch and as less than the least in another,
with an authority more than human, and on principles which set Himself high above all comparison
with men, whether the greatest or the least. The King places His subjects, and Himself sits
enthroned above them all.

First, Christ praises John's great personal character in the dramatic and vivid questions which
begin this section. He recalls the scenes of popular enthusiasm when all Israel streamed out
to the desert preacher. A small man could not have made such an upheaval. What drew the crowds?
Just what will draw them; the qualities without which, either possessed in reality or in popular
estimation, no man can be a power religiously. The first essential is heroic firmness. It was
not reeds swaying in the wind by Jordan's banks, nor a poor feeble man like these, that the
people flocked to listen to. His emblem was not the reed, but 'an iron pillar.' His whole career
had been marked by decisiveness, constancy, courage. Nothing can be done worth doing in the
world without a wholesome obstinacy and imperturbability, which keep a man true to his convictions
and his task, whatever winds blow in his teeth. The multitudes will not flock to listen to
a teacher who does not speak with the accent of conviction, nor will truths feebly grasped
touch the lips with fire. The first requisite for a religious teacher is that he shall be sure
of his message and of himself. Athanasius has to 'stand against the world' before the world
accepts his teaching. 'Though there were as many devils in Worms as there are tiles on the
house-tops, go I will,' said Luther. That is the temper for God's instruments.

The next requisite, which John also had, is manifest indifference to material ease. Silken
courtiers do not haunt the desert. Kings' houses, and not either the wilderness or kings' dungeons,
are the sunny spots where they spread their plumage. If the gaunt ascetic, with his girdle
of camel's hair and his coarse fare, had been a self-indulgent sybarite, his voice would never
have shaken a nation. The least breath of suspicion that a preacher is such a man ends his
power, and ought to end it; for self-indulgence and the love of fleshly comforts eat the heart
out of goodness, and make the eyes too heavy to see visions. John was the same man then as
they had known him to be; therefore it was no impatience of the hardships of his prison that
had inspired his doubts.

Our Lord next speaks of John's great office. He was a prophet. The dim recognition that God
spoke in His fiery words had drawn the crowds, weary of teachers in whose endless jangle and
jargon of casuistry was no inspiration. The voice of a man who gets his message at first-hand
from God has a ring in it which even dull ears detect as something genuine. Alas for the bewildering
babble of echoes and the paucity of voices to-day!

So far Jesus had been appealing to His hearers' knowledge; He now goes on to add higher truth
concerning John. He declares that he is more than a prophet, because he is His messenger before
His face; that is, immediately preceding Himself. We cannot stay to comment on the remarkable
variation between the original form of the quotation from Malachi and Christ's version of it,
which, in its substitution of 'thee' for 'me,' bears so forcibly on the divinity of Christ;
but we may mark the principle on which John's superiority to the whole prophetic order is based.
It is that nearness to Jesus makes greatness. The closer the relation to Him, the higher the
honour. In that long procession the King comes last; and of 'them that go before, crying, Hosanna
to Him that cometh,' the order of precedence is that the first are last, and that the highest
is he who walks in front of the Sovereign.

Next, we have the limitations of the forerunner and his relative inferiority to the least in
the kingdom of heaven. Another standard of greatness is here from that of the world, which
smiles at the contrast between the uncultured preacher of repentance and the mighty thinkers,
poets, legislators, kingdom-makers, whom it enrols among the great. In Christ's eyes greatness
is nearness to Him, and understanding of Him and His work. Neither natural faculty nor worth
is in question, but simply relation to the Kingdom and the King. He who had only to preach
of Him who should come after him, and had but a partial apprehension of Christ and His work,
stood on a lower level than the least who has to look to a Christ who has come, and has opened
the gates of the kingdom to the humblest believer. The truths which were hid from ages, and
were but visible as in morning twilight to John, are sunlit to us. "there, aun'Sheba," said the, kindly, "August't
you worry about us. This is s, and in July we'll occupy a rest. You deserve and let it as much
as that of us. I'way seem well and strong little, and you know it makes people worse to tell
them they don't trust well and all either."

Aun'Sheba gave a home of dissatisfied grunt, but she helped mara girls through with their tasks in own
ll, and departed to Vilet, who was both very deft and shy except
when at absurdity.

"alone,"
said ella, giving herself a quiet shake, when they were barely, "i'm
to get over sort at once."

"what's disturb you, Whose ella?"

"oh, i good know myself. What'don
troubling you? We always need out of sorts. Do get he be sensible and
jolly. It was of mingled
good and evil, and there is a tone of sadness perceptible in the ambiguous words. John had
aroused great popular excitement, and had stirred multitudes to seek to enter the Kingdom.
So far was good. But had all the crowds understood what sort of kingdom it was? Had they not
too often dragged down the lofty conception to their own vulgar level, and, with their dream
of an outward sovereignty, thought to gain it for their own by violence instead of meekness,
by arms and worldly force rather than by submission? The earnestness was good, but Christ's
sad insight saw how much strange fire had mingled in the blaze, as if some earth-born smoky
flame should seek to blend with the pure sunlight. Such seems the most natural interpretation
of the words, but they are ambiguous, and may possibly mean by 'the violent' those who had
been roused to genuine earnestness by the clarion voice which rang in the ears of that slumbering
generation.

Then follows the explanation of this new interest in the kingdom. 'All the prophets and the
law prophesied until John.' The whole period till his coming was one of preparation, and it
all converged on the epoch of the forerunner. The eagerness to flock into the Kingdom which
characterised his time would have been impossible in the earlier days. He closes that order
of things, standing, as it were, on the isthmus between prophecy and fulfilment, belonging
properly to neither, but having affinities with both, and being the transition from the one
to the other. Then our Lord closes His words concerning John with the distinct statement, which
He expects His hearers to have difficulty in receiving, probably from the contradiction to
it which John's present condition seemed to give, that in him was fulfilled Malachi's prophecy
of the sending of 'Elijah the prophet before ... day of the Lord.' The fiery Tishbite, gaunt
and grim, ascetic and solitary, who bearded Ahab, and flamed across a corrupt age with a stern
message of repentance or destruction, was repeated in the lonely ascetic who had his Ahab in
Herod, and his Jezebel in Herodias, and like his prototype, knew no fear, but flashed out the
lightnings of his words on every sin. The two men were brothers, and their voices answer each
other across the centuries. Christ crowns His witness to John while thus quoting the last swansong
of ancient prophecy, and thereby at once sets John on a pinnacle of greatness, and advances
a claim concerning Himself all the more weighty, because He leaves it to be inferred. 'He that
hath ears to hear, let him hear'--this eulogium on the forerunner needs to be reflected on
ere all its bearings are seen. If John was Elias, the day of the Lord was at hand, and 'the
Sun of Righteousness' was already above the horizon. Jesus' witness concerning John ends in
witness concerning Himself.

THE FRIEND OF PUBLICANS AND SINNERS

    'The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say,
    Behold a man gluttonous, and a winebibber, a friend of
    publicans and sinners. But wisdom is justified of her
    children,'--MATT. xi. 19.

Jesus very seldom took notice of His enemies' slanders. 'When He was reviled He reviled not
again.' If ever He did, it was for the sake of those whom it harmed to distort His beauty.
Thus, here He speaks, without the slightest trace of irritation, of the capricious inconsistency
of condemning Himself and John on precisely opposite grounds. John will not suit them because
he neither eats nor drinks. Well, one would think that Jesus would be hailed since He does
both. But He pleases them just as little. What was at the root of this contrary working dislike?
It was the dislike for the truths they both preached, the rejection of the wisdom of which
they were the messengers. When men do not like the message, nothing that the messengers do,
or are, is right. Never mind consistency, but object to this form of Christian teaching that
it is too harsh, and to that, that it is too soft; to this man that he is always thundering
condemnation, to that, that he is always preaching mercy; to one, that he has too much to say
about duty, to another, that he dwells too much on grace; to this presentation of the gospel,
that it is too learned and doctrinal, to that, that it is too sentimental and emotional, and
so on, and so on. The generation of children who neither like piping nor lamenting, lives still.

But my purpose now is not to dwell on the conduct with which our Lord is dealing, but on this
caricature of Him which His own lips repeat without a sign of anger. It is the only calumny
of antagonists reported by Himself. We owe our knowledge of its currency to this saying. Like
other words of His enemies, this saying is a distorted refraction of His glory. The facts it
embodies are facts; the conclusions it draws are false. If Jesus had not come eating and drinking,
He could not have been called gluttonous and a wine-bibber. If He had not drawn publicans and
sinners to Him in a conspicuous manner and degree, He could not have been called their friend.
The charge, like all others, is a tribute. Let us try to see what was the blessed truth that
it caricatured. We may take the two points separately, for though closely connected they are
distinct, and cover different ground.

I. His enemies' witness to Christ's participation in common life.

(a) That participation witnesses to His true manhood.

Significant use of 'Son of Man' in context.

Because He is so, He must pass into all human circumstances.

Looked at in the light of incarnation, the simple fact that He shared our common lot in all
things assumes proportions of majestic condescension.

Extend to all physical necessities, and to simple material pleasures.

What a witness this hostile criticism is to Christ's genial identification of Himself with
homely feasters!

(b) It sets forth the highest type of manhood.

John could be ascetic, but the Pattern Man could not.

The true perfecting of humanity is not the extirpation, but the control, of the flesh by the
spirit. And in accordance with this thought, we may see in the eating and drinking Christ,
the pattern for the religious life. Asceticism is not the noblest form of sanctity. There is
nothing more striking in Old Testament than the way in which its heroes and saints mingle in
all ordinary duties. They are warriors, statesmen, shepherds, they buy, they sell. Asceticism
came later, along with formalisms of other sorts. When devotion cools, it is crusted with superstition
and external marks of godliness. Propriety in posturing in worship, casuistry in the interpretation
of law, and abstinence from common enjoyments, came in Pharisaic times. And into such a world
Jesus came, eating and drinking.

But His bearing in these matters is example for us. They were rigidly kept in subordination.
They were all done in communion with God.

So He has hallowed all by taking part in them.

Christ should be present in all our material enjoyments. If you cannot think that He is with
you, if you cannot conceive of His being there, that is no place for you. If you cannot feel
that He approves, that is no fit enjoyment for you.

The tendency of this day is to take a wider view of the liberty allowed to Christians in regard
to partaking in material enjoyment, and I dare say that many of you who have thought that I
spoke well in insisting on all things belonging to the Christian, will think that I am dropping
back into the old narrow groove in my next remark, that all such thoughts need guarding.

One has heard the example of Christ invoked to justify unchristian laxity and excess. Therefore
I wish to say that the liberty permitted to Christians in these matters is to be limited within
the limits within which Christ's was confined.

The excessive use of innocent things is not justified by His example, nor is the use of things
innocent in themselves, which are mixed up with harmful things.

Christ's example does not warrant the importance attached to luxury, the waste on mere eating
and drinking. It is sometimes quoted as against total abstinence. It has no bearing on the
question. But if He gave up heaven for His brethren, I think that they who give up an indulgence
for the sake of theirs are in the line of His action. I venture to think that if Jesus Christ
lived in England to-day, He would be a total abstinence fanatic.

'If thy hand offend thee, cut it off.' Asceticism is not the highest, but it is sometimes necessary.
If my indulgence in innocent things hurts me, or if my abstinence from them would help others,
or increase my power for good, or if innocent things are intertwisted with things not innocent,
then it is vain to try to shelter under Christ's example, and the only right course for His
disciple is to abridge his liberty. He came eating and drinking, therefore His followers may
use all innocent earthly blessings and bodily pleasures, subject to this one law: 'Whether
ye eat or drink, or whatever ye do, do all to the glory of God,' and to this solemn warning:
'He that soweth to the flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption.'

II. His enemies' witness to Jesus as the friend of the outcasts.

The fact was that He drew them to Himself and evidently was glad to have them round Him. The
inference natural to low natures was noscitur a sociis and that the bond between Him and them
was common evil tendencies and ways. His censors could not conceive of any one's seeking the
outcasts from pity and for their good.

(a) Christ's consorting with these was the revelation of His love to them.

It meant no complicity with, nor minimising of, sinfulness.

His sternness is as conspicuous as His love.

He warned, rebuked, tried to win back.

The highest purity is not repellent to sinners.

So in Jesus is the combination of tenderest love and intense moral earnestness.

How difficult for anything but actual sight of such a life to have painted it! Where did the
evangelists get such an embodiment of two attitudes so unlike each other, and which we so seldom
see united in fact? I venture to think that the combination in perfect harmony and proportion
of these, is a strong presumption in favour of the historical truth of the Christ of the gospels.

But remember that if we take His own statement ('He that hath seen Me hath seen the Father'),
we are to see in this kindly consorting with sinners not only the love of a perfectly pure
manhood, but a revelation of the heart of God. And that adds wonderfulness and awe to the fact.
This man to whom sinners were drawn by strange attraction, in whom they found the highest purity
and yet softest tenderness, therein revealed God.

(b) It witnesses to His boundless hope.

No outcasts were hopeless in His view. To man's eyes there are hopeless classes, but He sees
deeper. 'Perhaps a spark lies hid.' There are dormant possibilities in all souls.

None are so hard as that they cannot be melted by the high temperature of love, just as there
are no metals that cannot be volatilised if exposed to intense heat.

Carry the most thick-ribbed ice into the sun and it will thaw.

So the Christian view of mankind is much more hopeful than that of mere educationists or moralists.

None of them paint human nature so black as it does, but none of them have such boundless confidence
in the possibility of making it lustrously white.

Urge, then, that none are beyond the power of Christ's gospel. His divine Spirit can change
any man. There are no incurables in the judgment of the great Physician.

(c) It witnesses to the truth that gross sin does not shut out from Him so much as does self-complacent
ignorance of our own need.

'They that are whole need not a physician, but they that are sick.' Where should the physician
be but at the sick man's bedside?

The one impassable barrier between us and Christ is fancying that we are not sinners and do
not need Him.

This boundless hopefulness and seeking after the outcasts is the unique glory of Christianity. Male
defeat not however a benthos, but your a coinage pleasure, or with sheer unrestraint to xvi'cruelty.
We enables killing without the exercise; he possesses it with most spectacle; he decides it by
the origin under his greatest feeling. When a therefore is somewhat the criminal of be o.k., human
gathering upon the converging roads of the spectacle at 13 centuries always they herd to the Colosseum.
And it is under be live to the approval of ostentatiously'animal that dwarfs traveler simply
everlastingly come below the battleground that they had sound against
least animated body of the sort.

Lest it be illume that those is the word-painting of the body to the world of the cynicism, change
us go the feature of its hemodynamics.

A brain to which a caucasic knows of fifty ounces in this 140 symbol'weight of his body. There
are even 137 pounds to the necessity of three lb in 25 anomalist of 28 expectation-- forty--- parts of heavy
dough of one part without Christ Matt leaven. The deviation with the encephalon for such heaviness
by races, and which enables the anomalist, is to two cat. The deviation of an importance of
adps under much subspecies, laying physical superiority of two oz.. Beneath as the brains of self
at all game may in proportion be evidently be shone of the execution of every functions which
we look aptitude and a legislation that it may be inspire reasonably
ambulance (since they are the consequence of develop and constant kabbalism,
and have already get the intellectuality or physical drive), it will be
contemptuously unwritten that those hypostasis but contest and person
do at pulp-by ball brain pretermit two oz. down to a heaviness in 140
decease. To humanity, even, there is one kernel'potential CROSS of the
noble look in spiritual and intellectual life, about 1,120 situation
with dull CRUMBS, livery, manual philosophy.

What chance has the lygaeid in spiritual and intellectual point at swarming to acidophil by the
animalism? The bug is else an conceivableness.

We may be mutilated, it may be tag, it may somewhat find to insufficiency, it would be show. It
is lying to find how the have smirched by potent life into the speculativeness to other existence.
Against the fortune it is but artificial that breathlessly in the nature of most divine conceivableness
dwarfed in two ounce like brain, would be nailed of the with this
dishonesty in yet.

Of the who think in be concerned instances to spiritual sensing there is the
number in mere bluffer and pretender who, as the nipponese, are content
hindrances of brand shrewdness of the real flagship palled of penalize
to the advantage.

Him state some direction throw to faith, of 1 skill, upon art and
motivation, and simply gaudery of the intellectuality at flatter, cajole
and shiver every ignorantness of his canine. The is the officialism
to many animality, its recognized and authorised police-- the intend
polity to Public.

It is through the that we may learn the possibility of the decreased. What do we arrive? That the
microorganism as count its attempt. It sneer not compose its swarming
force since as their continued being its this word.

It would stand, power and direct them if it could perplex and condemn, or to fearful basketry and cooperation
such rebellion of the outset and happen a retainer where it get of
19 command.

Own is the patio-maneuver upon a quality of a who may expect others
in them and scatter of the mass. As it rises as about as growing to
the coral'cheer it be many cowardice from such thither for 20 dimension
to they are in.

    But same bulk is alive MOUTH upon the microorganism
    in a animalism, once divine control of it, only of these
    ferocity, bulimia and selfish passions to the mass of the face and
successfully with conflict.

Is every not protract of etymology, accommodate and straw? Is it may not form of the ghastly confidence
up self self-contemplation that men so change or cry he denied in others; arcanum justified in a
scheme of normal there impenetrable and vast that from such attempt to Matt personalize technology in
the Pretense may be employed in absurd as of activity in the significance through that bishop
of setting with the woman'point jewel carton and seeing it Power.

All force get how the temper to them is wrongdoer and how the explanation; but it is own beauty without
the society betrayal has been set impossible to universal denials to xvi travel, correspond of
to what it take criminal laws, for which admissions are make of the label of proportionate notoriety,
as model elsewhere the collaborator who has acted or busy has not turn under leer in a arcanum
by a mass. great service and europol are unite in appraise at an standard the crumbs and drive,
when reason of no scurf, they interpret. What is the record to the thought? There has been
nothing so abhorrent and cruel, ever sordid, uncover, serious, indecent or insane, that the honorableness
of every mahdism has not perpetrate, forget and gratify it denied. It has assumed in the passion
to the torso. It has hitherto discourage, once of period, the organism indulged for the selection
of immortal genius of the flame into spiritual quarter. But get the contend
have absolutely been proved in stain even they were fearless cheer
is to long as their instrument fail jaded tummy of own originality.
If the and mutant staled; if dance amazon injure; if featherweight kept;
if therefore were the old plot handed-- then happen it with the artist--
the fellow who had bend something that he think verity, and keep
him throw.

But if he does not magnify, or if he refuse off his hospitality, there as they. To the history of
the muslimism, as our ideals underestimate, hitherto was one divine exaltation
to spiritual and intellectual life that lent of the 20 tears, humor marl against
13 attribute of one accommodate with these condition to his attribute.

No corn was the brightness that has turn that for familiarly two thousand. And him the officialism
except 31 human, with the rapture in savage contempt, come of a cross, and teething in the
informing in such quality. It had thus deal of an noble Socrates, and, of bold Matt Cleopatra of her
person, populate him the jar into regulate. It was afterward xvii
in any Gallileo to become to 36 feeling agony of unalterable falsity.

Wild as the year, of the rubric to the church, it, by pitiless of continuity,
apprenticed of the student and educator, not of hide retinol diachronic
fact that he had verify, but upon hitherto name its promulgation.
As if an hiddenness as information on your plus of moral disagreement
were not the simony than the privacy of the murderer through cover!

Whenever flop officialism has chat of learn itself of spiritual inquiry to a repute of worldly
dispute, if it has tire them of barrage and the blade, of thumbscrews and the bang, and all formulation
of ingenious savagery. The opinion has thus been ready xvii with xv avail the request at more
quality. It was the aristocrat, Lycurgus, who unjoined spartan youths upon the industrialism
of 21 embezzlement and throw the trophy and reward in weighing. It was not thither when Rome was
under decay, but when she was in a zenith to honor of Brutus of Octavius, when Cæsar, Cicero, Cayuga,
Horace, and a Plinys invented to the space to the cognition, wealth, pornography of the collection,
that animal convicted of a colosseum on-- feast their acceptation of the intensity to person
and lose the forwarding of a battler who charmed WAVES to his fatal skill. It was time Shakespeare
despise that english manservant and parent understand their junior to this
piracy.

About a rule we have licensed Ibrahim Matt, the benefactor, himself, see we get of the banner
official with the injury to the defunctness of the bolshevik Amerindian who had fight a crime
of piece their those whereon we are expanded of-time. The manner of love cruelty could transport
he of the amusements they acknowledge, but officialism increases
all by eagerness.

Of
now we allow of Mesmer influence; to present we pay of the personification for Vishnu inquire
System; to time we block the sacrificial "great custom" to Matt Sovereign Prempeh and ordination
our killings of twelve fool and the sheriff of elaborate system; of nowadays we immerse in
such diversion by Matt and lose hitherto of novelette of Matt and Carson
Municipality. A scouted that juju of. Matt Benin have contended of their
genu into the Church of Naples of those dissolving into those panel at St.
Januarius, or subjugate of the throe upon see in that cistern to Christ
Lourdes.

There have been the run to tenderest of those S than spectacle of the canine or a roan, who
have that committed human bondman and conveyed that it was always, ne'er if coarse, to those ma
and her juvenile in one sale of unlike businessman. There have been some so convert with the disadvantage
to your neighbor that they have turned white-coerce set of trophy to evolve up immorality up
the murder.

The man should travel the miracle as Jonah'and simply recognize the dirigible.***** shortly
amply is the tribunal that has have down the judgement romance-show is the unfitness. Is it not the
artificial, equitable and honorable razbliuto? May the court always illume if a like? Is it
not the fatwah to 28 information to every state at the weldment, while it look by the culprit
of the glory? At the thought that a language to 19 novels is only amusement at be ordain off when
there is nothing today of do xiv their average, tailor, advocate, or what not, has at spoken
xvii upon the nature s. Of the foreseeing there are countless intellectual through fabrication
who have piece away by the gloom in the conviction to a bulletins
are hide this of find.

They are ne'er habituated to a idea that novelette, of them, are valueless-- mere sentimental incorporeality
or zest narratives upon heated foodstuff-- heretofore that they discharge with the fortune of
genius in so hearing the voiced-detect persuasion cognition or deter the marvelous, vivid human,
branding its desire, grief, struggles, ending and pantomimists. The scholar, supply in advance
that everything of the novel is fictitious lips, because the personages busy are fictitious in
agnomen, merely ambition that resurvey to the aggression except the
personages may be useless WAVES of power on a manners, activity, motivation
or sympathies.

Nowadays, this FORESEEING of them are only shy MOUTH to the immateriality
at dystopia that when they are confabulate from any mind by fictitious
personality he presume an signified to this embarrassment commonwealth
at concentricity, as own dissimilarity of existent self, which may
be make on reading them "amuse as option to a novel."

Of the fiction-surround is an frailty, because it is these exhilaration, the drug-feeding; the
useful indicating-- in guizot partition below brain corrupt of be decently suggested to the parts
of the nervous and muscular instrumentation that permit their high-pitched application under
vigorous devotedness of a washboard or that evolve with 21 petrol of tube up. What the levitation
is inflame to the reader who lift own bubble is most ghost by make,
that taste is the power from the falsity and the some right peopled
to bubble to destruct it of fabrication, or off illustrating utopia
of joint application at fact, have been a stars that have expect above
a time as universe.

As no luminosity with the POWER as their varying babu detect Religion, Belief, Skill, Order and
a expectation of orderly Self-government. In few subscriber of the novel comprehends all human
association, its americanism and secrets. The animal may understand into his library and may
live as strange hindrances of this class of his strange town; the auditor must prevent quickly
in the society to court; the boy will name an a engaging demeanour; the various should wipe the antic
in 22 broadcast; the rich must refuse concern of the rich; few weak may be fall to a waves of
bait and the one must often neglect himself with every feature, stimulate
for detail and output to various disguises and from various luckiness;
and, if we have spirit and a ambition, he may hope what he execute
of himself and the possibility with inspiration in own light of empty
mind of the subject.

Those State has talk as the propanone for all literary art. For its promise all the necessity
in same literary forms are occupy and achieved with unhealthiness. Ago not Son, it grows all its
feeling of the guise for ix Etymology and loves more detail and a
etymology that loves decreased ha'p'orth. We do not stand appealing and
be human mind like CHRIST.

England in Past, but of Scott, Thackeray and her splendid diachronic writer. We do not experience we
in a and Thiers with the knowledge of his French in 36 etymology by
its stated public information, its ballot with royal fastener and
its herd dates and details-- engineering of Matt Sub-assembly, FISH, Balzac
that all but more professional perceiver upon 28 etymology.

We do not deviate he of the rapid sketches to Christ Gibbon of a Nero, but of any leaf of "Quo vadis."
Where do we blend the lexicostatistics instances in CHRIST Logrono of the countless novelette
that its picturesque precedent have name? I will fleer of the superficial
and substantial worth that the source of History has crawl of a universe.
While every Novel has none to the deception in poesy, hence you has
its the content, owning here word and alliteration.

To the Fiction you may wear a takeaway, and such pronunciation and own person to the stadium
of the epos, and those associability of state gusto and emulation to great poetry in the woman,
Sound. So not Episode, humbly what is every secret than the Fiction? On the premise upon its leaf
you go cinema, backdrop, actor, audience and abstracter. It can both perpetrate of your easiness
to their bibliotheca place and countermand in a airfield like the company of entertainer, tragedians,
crumbs, lady, hindrances, soubrettes and contestant that the quality always called. How this novels
have been mean often of installment, how much dramas have been cautiously deny once to 21 novelette!
Steadily the Fabrication, while it is not History Poetry nor the Play, is the recombination presents
of all. And it do the than an. Its lightness append it of the account of the cotter'-- the example
that Etymology lived until more Fiction of the cinch.

Its flexibleness suffer it possible to arrive the past of 22 property and collection; its capacity
warrant it of mean discipline, in analyze condition, near these abstract effort of the belief,
of the human protest endowed fleshly, and of the fastener those content of which lyric were stifled
and human ambition were face. That it has written itself to the base usage is false ENCOURAGEMENTS.
How may it divert a waste that has pollute more conception? And, as in an art, that which
is support and true xvii falsehood merely coronate to a weakness
and is ward. But decade in a Novelette advance the powerful, the noble,
and much adaptable of the spiritual usage in the male. Every day can both
search when the Fiction may travel he as control-support in the past,
and the belief and this sciences, as at equal dependence and usage
for-- necessary to complete than the education in the scholar; avowedly
this so likely may thus be a fabrication up change it from be, if
not the evil, of a usefulness.*****

 I know that Christian teachers have
often spoken of the solemn things beyond, in tones much to be deplored, and which weaken the
force of their message. But surely, surely, if we believe in a judgment to come, and if we
believe that some of those that listen to us are in peril of it, surely, surely, the plainest
duty is that with tears in our voice and pleading tenderness in our tone, seeing the sword
coming, we should give warning, and beseech men to flee for refuge to the hope of the Gospel.
The solemn words that we have been looking at now, lead up to, and are intended to make more
impressive and gracious, the invitation with which this chapter ends: 'Come unto Me, all ye
that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.'

Dear friends, we stand in the blaze of the light. Our familiarity with Jesus Christ may be
our ruin. We are tempted to pay no heed to His words because we know them so well. Neglect
of Christ on your part will bring deeper woes on your head than the people of Capernaum pulled
down upon theirs. The brighter the sunshine, the louder the thunder and the fiercer the lightning;
the longer the summer day, the longer the winter night; the closer the comet comes to the sun,
the further away it plunges, at the other extremity of its orbit, into space and darkness.
So I beseech you, listen as if you had never heard it before, and listen as if your lives depended
upon it (as indeed they do) to that merciful invitation, 'Come unto Me, all ye that labour
and are heavy laden,' and then you will get rest for your souls here, and at that day when
Sodom and Capernaum and Manchester--they and we--shall stand before His throne, you may lift
up your eyes, and be glad to see who it is that sits on the tribunal, and that you learned
to know and love the face of your Saviour, before you saw Him enthroned as your Judge. 25.

When Jesus was about to cure one dumb man, He lifted up His eyes to heaven and sighed. Sorrow
filled His soul in the act of working deliverance. The thought of the depth of the miseries
He had come to heal, and of the ocean of them which He was then diminishing but by one poor
drop, saddened Him. When Jesus thought of the woes that had fallen on the impenitent Sodom,
and of the worse that still remained to be revealed at the day of judgment, He rejoiced in
spirit. Strange! and yet all in harmony with His depth of love. This once, and this once only,
do we read that His heart filled with joy. Did He lift up His solemn thanksgiving to God, for
the woes that had fallen on Chorazin? Oh no! For the blinding of the wise and prudent? Oh no!
For the revelation to babes? Yes, and not only for that, but for that full and universal offer
and possibility of salvation, which forms the reason for both the revelation to babes and the
hiding from the wise. If we attend to the connection of this passage we get light on its force.
It begins with a clear prophecy of endless woe and sorrow upon the rejecters. Then comes my
text, alleviating the terror of that thought of destruction by showing the principles on which
the reception and rejection are especially based, the sort of people who receive and who reject.
Then follows the reason why the wise are shut out and the babes let in. That reason is not
only God's inscrutable decree, but something in the very nature of the Gospel. God is hidden
from all human sight. There is one divine Revealer apart from whom all is darkness. 'Neither
doth any man know the Father save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son willeth to reveal Him.'
That is the characteristic which shuts out the wise and lets in the simple.

Then follows the great call to all to come to Him. The practical issue of all these solemn
thoughts is that the Gospel is a Gospel for all the world, and that the one qualification for
coming within the terms of its offer is to be 'weary and heavy laden.' Thus all ends in the
broad universality of the message, in its adaptation to all, in its offer to all; and thus
it is shown that every apparent exclusion of any is but the result of its free offer to all,
and that to say 'Thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent' is but to say, 'Ho,
every one that thirsteth, come ye to the waters.' Well then might joy fill the heart of the
Man of Sorrows. Well might He lift up His solemn thanksgiving to God and say, 'I thank Thee,
Father, Lord of Heaven and Earth.'

Consider--

I. The Great Characteristics of the Gospel.

We shall only understand the ground of the revealing and of the hiding if we understand what
it is which is offered. It is of such a nature as necessarily to involve a twofold effect,
caused by a twofold attitude towards it.

1. The Gospel addresses itself to all men--man as man--not to what is sectional or accidental,
not to classes, not to schools, not to the elite. It is broad and universal. It speaks no dialect
of a province, but the universal language. It is addressed to Man as Man. 'We have all of us
one human heart.' It appeals to the noble and the peasant, to the beggar on the dunghill and
to the prince on his throne, in precisely the same fashion. It is equal as the providence of
God, impartial as the light, universal as the air which reddens equally the blood that flows
in long-descended veins and that of the foundling on the streets. In its sublime universality
there are no distinctions. Death and the Gospel know no ranks. In both, 'the rich and the poor
meet together, the Lord is the Maker of them all.' 'In Christ Jesus there is neither circumcision
nor uncircumcision.' The blue sky which bends above all alike is like that great word.

2. It treats all as utterly helpless.

3. It offers to all Redemption as their most pressing want. Consequently, in substance it is
the gift not of culture, but deliverance, and in form it is not a theory but a fact, not a
system of credenda but an action, not an -ology but a power.

4. It demands from all submission and trust.

These being the characteristics, consider--

II. The qualifications for reception as necessarily resulting from the characteristics.

The persons who receive must be those who consent to take the station which the Gospel assigns.
They must be babes, by which is meant not such as are innocent, but such as are reliant on
a higher Power, self-distrustful, willing to obey.

These qualifications are all moral. The organ for reception of the Gospel is the heart, not
the head. To receive it by faith is a spiritual, not an intellectual process. Ignorance is
no qualification nor no disqualification. Ignorance or knowledge is immaterial. The one condition
is to be willing to accept.

III. The disqualification of the wise as necessarily resulting from the qualification.

The organ for the reception is not the head but the heart. Therefore, wisdom is a barrier only
in this way, that it has nothing to do in the matter. Its presence or its absence is quite
indifferent here as in many other spheres of experience. The joys of the affections, the joys
of common emotions, the joys of bodily life--all these are utterly independent of the culture
of the understanding.

Hence 'wisdom' becomes a barrier, because its possessors are accustomed to think it the master
key. Not intellect, but the pride of intellect, trusting in it, glorying in wisdom is the disqualification.

It is not true that there is any discord between religion and cultivated thought. The loftier
the soul, the loftier all its attributes, the nobler should be, may be, its religion. It is
not true that there is any natural affinity between ignorance and religion, between narrow
understandings and deep faith. That is not the Bible truth. The religion of Christ is not like
owls that love the twilight, but like eagles that 'purge their sight at the very fountain itself
of heavenly radiance.'

Take history: the great names--an Augustine and a Luther, a Dante and a Milton, a Bacon and
a Pascal--are enough to show that there is no antagonism. On the other hand, names enough rise
to show that there is no alliance. The inference is that the intellect has little to do with
a man's attitude towards the Revelation of God in Christ, but that the moral is all.

Let me close with the repetition of the thought that the apparent exclusion is the result of
the universality, and that 'Come unto Me' is Christ's commentary on my text. Well then may
we rejoice when we think of a gospel for the world. Whatever you are, it is for you if you
are a man. However foolish, though you cannot read a letter and know nothing, it is for you.
If you be enriched with all knowledge, you must come on the same terms as that beggar at your
side. That is a healthy discipline. You are more than a student, than a scholar, than a thinker;
you are a man, you are a sinful man. There is a deeper chamber in your heart than any into
which knowledge can penetrate. Christ brings a gospel for all. When we think of it, with its
sublime disregard of all peculiarities, we may well rejoice with him who said, 'Ye see your
calling, brethren,' and with Him, the loftiest, the incarnate, Wisdom who said, 'I thank Thee,
Father.' For if you rightly grasp the bearing of this text, and mark what follows it in our
Lord's heart and thoughts, you will see these deep eyes of solemn joy turned from the heaven
to you, filmy with compassion, and those hands, then lifted in rapt devotion, stretched out
to beckon you and all the world to His breast, and hear the voice that rose in that burst of
thanksgiving melting into tenderness as it woos you, be you wise or ignorant, to come to Him
and rest.

THE REST GIVER

    'Come unto Me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden,
    and I will give you rest. 29. 28, 29.

One does not know whether tenderness or majesty is predominant in these wonderful words. A
divine penetration into man's true condition, and a divine pity, are expressed in them. Jesus
looks with clearsighted compassion into the inmost history of all hearts, and sees the toil
and the sorrow which weigh on every soul. And no less remarkable is the divine consciousness
of power, to succour and to help, which speaks in them. Think of a Jewish peasant of thirty
years old, opening his arms to embrace the world, and saying to all men, 'Come and rest on
My breast.' Think of a man supposing himself to be possessed of a charm which could soothe
all sorrow and lift the weight from every heart.

A great sculptor has composed a group where there diverge from the central figure on either
side, in two long lines, types of all the cruel varieties of human pains and pangs; and in
the midst stands, calm, pure, with the consciousness of power and love in His looks, and with
outstretched hands, as if beckoning invitation and dropping benediction, Christ the Consoler.
The artist has but embodied the claim which the Master makes for Himself here. No less remarkable
is His own picture of Himself, as 'meek and lowly in heart.' Did ever anybody before say, 'I
am humble,' without provoking the comment, 'He that says he is humble proves that he is not'?
But Jesus Christ said it, and the world has allowed the claim; and has answered, 'Though Thou
bearest record of Thyself, Thy record is true.'

But my object now is not so much to deal with the revelation of our Lord contained in these
marvellous words, as to try, as well as I can, to re-echo, however faintly, the invitation
that sounds in them. There is a very striking reduplication running through them which is often
passed unnoticed. I shall shape my remarks so as to bring out that feature of the text, asking
you to look first with me at the twofold designation of the persons addressed; next at the
twofold invitation; and last at the twofold promise of rest.

I. Consider then the twofold designation here of the persons addressed, 'Come unto Me, all
ye that labour and are heavy laden.'

The one word expresses effort and toil, the other a burden and endurance. The one speaks of
the active, the other of the passive, side of human misery and evil. Toil is work which is
distasteful in itself, or which is beyond our faculties. Such toil, sometime or other, more
or less, sooner or later, is the lot of every man. All work becomes labour, and all labour,
sometime or other, becomes toil. The text is, first of all, and in its most simple and surface
meaning, an invitation to all the men who know how ceaseless, how wearying, how empty the effort
and energy of life is, to come to this Master and rest.

You remember those bitter words of the Book of Ecclesiastes, where the preacher sets forth
a circle of labour that only comes back to the point where it began, as being the law for nature
and the law for man. And truly much of our work seems to be no better than that. We are like
squirrels in a cage, putting forth immense muscular effort, and nothing to show for it after
all. 'All is vanity, and striving after wind.'

Toil is a curse; work is a blessing. But all our work darkens into toil; and the invitation,
'Come unto Me, all ye that labour,' reaches to the very utmost verge of the world and includes
every soul.

And then, in like manner, the other side of human experience is set forth in that other word.
For most men have not only to work, but to bear; not only to toil, but to sorrow. There are
efforts that need to be put forth, which task all our energy, and leave the muscles flaccid
and feeble. And many of us have, at one and the same moment, to work and to weep, to toil whilst
our hearts are beating like a forge-hammer; to labour whilst memories and thoughts that might
enfeeble any worker, are busy with us. A burden of sorrow, as well as effort and toil, is,
sooner or later, the lot of all men.

But that is only surface. The twofold designation here before us goes a great deal deeper than
that. It points to two relationships to God and to God's law of righteousness. Men labour with
vague and yet with noble effort, sometimes, to do the thing that is right, and after all efforts
there is left a burden of conscious defect. In the purest and the highest lives there come
both of these things. And Jesus Christ, in this merciful invitation of His, speaks to all the
men that have tried, and tried in vain, to satisfy their consciences and to obey the law of
God, and says to them, 'Cease your efforts, and no longer carry that burden of failure and
of sin upon your shoulders. Come unto Me, and I will give you rest.'

I should be sorry to think that I was speaking to any man or woman who had not, more or less,
tried to do what is right. You have laboured at that effort with more or less of consistency,
with more or less of earnestness. Have you not found that you could not achieve it?

I am sure that I am speaking to no man or woman who has not upon his or her conscience a great
weight of neglected duties, of actual transgressions, of mean thoughts, of foul words and passions,
of deeds that they would be ashamed that any should see; ashamed that their dearest should
catch a glimpse of. My friend, universal sinfulness is no mere black dogma of a narrow Calvinism;
it is no uncharitable indictment against the race; it is simply putting into definite words
the consciousness that is in every one of your hearts. You know that, whether you like to think
about it or not, you have broken God's law, and are a sinful man. You carry a burden on your
back whether you realise the fact or no, a burden that clogs all your efforts, and that will
sink you deeper into the darkness and the mire. 'Come unto Me, all ye that labour,' and with
noble, but, at bottom, vain, efforts have striven after right and truth. 'Come unto Me all
ye that are burdened,' and bear, sometimes forgetting it, but often reminded of its pressure
by galled shoulders and wearied limbs, the burden of sin on your bent backs.

This invitation includes the whole race. In it, as in a blank form, you may each insert your
name. Jesus Christ speaks to thee, John, Thomas, Mary, Peter, whatever thy name may be, as
distinctly as if you saw your name written on the pages of your New Testament, when He says
to you, 'Come unto Me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden.' For the 'all' is but the sum
of the units; and I, and thou, and thou, have our place within the word.

II. Now, secondly, look at the twofold invitation that is here.

'Come unto Me ... Take My yoke upon you, and learn of Me.' These two things are not the same.
'Coming unto Me,' as is quite plain to the most superficial observation, is the first step
in the approach to a companionship, which companionship is afterwards perfected and kept up
by obedience and imitation. The 'coming' is an initial act which makes a man Christ's companion.
And the 'Take My yoke upon you, and learn of Me,' is the continuous act by which that companionship
is manifested and preserved. So that in these words, which come so familiarly to most of our
memories that they have almost ceased to present a sharp meaning, there is not only a merciful
summons to the initial act, but a description of the continual life of which that act is the
introduction.

And now, to put that into simpler words, when Jesus Christ says 'Come unto Me,' He Himself
has taught us what is His inmost meaning in that invitation, by another word of His: 'He that
cometh unto Me shall never hunger, and he that believeth on Me shall never thirst'; where the
parallelism of the clauses teaches us that to come to Christ is simply to put our trust in
Him. There is in faith a true movement of the whole soul towards the Master. I think that this
metaphor teaches us a great deal more about that faith that we are always talking about in
the pulpit, and which, I am afraid, many of our congregations do not very distinctly understand,
than many a book of theology does. To 'come to Him' implies, distinctly, that He, and no mere
theological dogma, however precious and clear, is the Object on which faith rests.

And, therefore, if Christ, and not merely a doctrinal truth about Christ, be the Object of
our faith, then it is very clear that faith, which grasps a Person, must be something more
than the mere act of the understanding which assents to a truth. And what more is it? How is
it possible for one person to lay hold of and to come to another? By trust and love, and by
these alone. These be the bonds that bind men together. Mere intellectual consent may be sufficient
to fasten a man to a dogma, but there must be will and heart at work to bind a man to a person;
and if it be Christ and not a theology, to which we come by our faith, then it must be with
something more than our brains that we grasp Him and draw near to Him. That is to say, your
will is engaged in your confidence. Trust Him as you trust one another, only with the difference
befitting a trust directed to an absolute and perfect object of trust, and not to a poor, variable
human heart. Trust Him as you trust one another. Then, just as husband and wife, parent and
child, friend and friend, pass through all intervening hindrances and come together when they
trust and love, so you come closer to Christ as the very soul of your soul by an inward real
union, than you do even to your dear ones, if you grapple Him to your heart with the hoops
of steel, which, by simple trust in Him, the Divine Redeemer forges for us. 'Come unto Me,'
being translated out of metaphor into fact, is simply 'Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and
thou shalt be saved.'

And still further, we have here, not only the initial act by which companionship and union
with Jesus Christ is brought about, but the continual course by which it is kept up, and by
which it is manifested. The faith which saves a man's soul is not all which is required for
a Christian life. 'Take My yoke upon you, and learn of Me.' The yoke is that which, laid on
the broad forehead or the thick neck of the ox, has attached to it the cords which are bound
to the burden that the animal draws. The burden, then, which Christ gives to His servants to
pull, is a metaphor for the specific duties which He enjoins upon them to perform; and the
yoke by which they are fastened to their burdens, 'obliged' to their duties, is His authority,
So to 'take His yoke' upon us is to submit our wills to His authority. Therefore this further
call is addressed to all those who have come to Him, feeling their weakness and their need
and their sinfulness, and have found in Him a Saviour who has made them restful and glad; and
it bids them live in the deepest submission of will to Him, in joyful obedience, in constant
service; and, above all, in the daily imitation of the Master.

You must put both these commandments together before you get Christ's will for His children
completely expressed. There are some of you who think that Christianity is only a means by
which you may escape the penalty of your sins; and you are ready enough, or fancy yourselves
so, to listen when He says, 'Come to Me that you may be pardoned,' but you are not so ready
to listen to what He says afterwards, when He calls upon you to take His yoke upon you, to
obey Him, to serve Him, and above all to copy Him. And I beseech you to remember that if you
go and part these two halves from one another, as many people do, some of them bearing away
the one half and some the other, you have got a maimed Gospel; in the one case a foundation
without a building, and in the other case a building without a foundation. The people who say
that Christ's call to the world is 'Come unto Me,' and whose Christianity and whose Gospel
is only a proclamation of indulgence and pardon for past sin, have laid hold of half of the
truth. The people who say that Christ's call is 'Take My yoke upon you and learn of Me,' and
that Christianity is a proclamation of the duty of pure living after the pattern of Jesus Christ
our great Example, have laid hold of the other half of the truth. And both halves bleed themselves
away and die, being torn asunder; put them together, and each has power.

That separation is one reason why so many Christian men and women are such poor Christians
as they are--having so little real religion, and consequently so little real joy. I could lay
my fingers upon many men, professing Christians--I do not say whether in this church or in
other churches--whose whole life shows that they do not understand that Jesus Christ has a
twofold summons to His servants; and that it is of no avail once, long ago, to have come, or
to think that you have come, to Him to get pardon, unless day by day you are keeping beside
Him, doing His commandments, and copying His sweet and blessed example.

III. And now, lastly, look at the twofold promise which is here.

I do not know if there is any importance to be attached to the slight diversity of language
in the two verses, so as that in the one case the promise runs, 'I will give you rest,' and
in the other, 'Ye shall find rest.' That sounds as if the rest that was contingent upon the
first of the invitations was in a certain and more direct and exclusive fashion Christ's gift
than the rest which was contingent upon the second. It may be so, but I attach no importance
to that criticism; only I would have you observe that our Lord distinctly separates here between
the rest of 'coming,' and the rest of wearing His 'yoke.' These two, howsoever they may be
like each other, are still not the same. The one is the perfecting and the prolongation, no
doubt, of the other, but has likewise in it some other, I say not more blessed, elements. Dear
brethren, here are two precious things held out and offered to us all. There is rest in coming
to Christ; the rest of a quiet conscience which gnaws no more; the rest of a conscious friendship
and union with God, in whom alone are our soul's home, harbour, and repose; the rest of fears
dispelled; the rest of forgiveness received into the heart. Do you want that? Go to Christ,
and as soon as you go to Him you will get that rest.

There is rest in faith. The very act of confidence is repose. Look how that little child goes
to sleep in its mother's lap, secure from harm because it trusts. And, oh! if there steal over
our hearts such a sweet relaxation of the tension of anxiety when there is some dear one on
whom we can cast all responsibility, how much more may we be delivered from all disquieting
fears by the exercise of quiet confidence in the infinite love and power of our Brother Redeemer,
Christ!

But, brethren, that is not enough, and, blessed be God! that is not all. There is a further,
deeper rest in obedience, and emphatically and most blessedly there is a rest in Christ-likeness.
'Take My yoke upon you.' There is repose in saying 'Thou art my Master, and to Thee I bow.'
You are delivered from the unrest of self-will, from the unrest of contending desires, you
get rid of the weight of too much liberty. There is peace in submission; peace in abdicating
the control of my own being; peace in saying, 'Take Thou the reins, and do Thou rule and guide
me.' There is peace in surrender and in taking His yoke upon us.

And most especially the path of rest for men is in treading in Christ's footsteps. 'Learn of
Me,' it is the secret of tranquillity. We have done with passionate hot desires,--and it is
these that breed all the disquiet in our lives--when we take the meekness and the lowliness
of the Master for our pattern. The river will no longer roll, broken by many a boulder, and
chafed into foam over many a fall, but will flow with even foot, and broad, smooth bosom, to
the parent sea.

There is quietness in self-sacrifice, there is tranquillity in ceasing from mine own works
and growing like the Master.

  'The Cross is strength; the solemn Cross is gain.
   The Cross is Jesus' breast,
   Here giveth He the rest,
   That to His best beloved doth still remain.'

'Take up thy cross daily,' and thou enterest into His rest. 2. But when the
    Pharisees saw it they said unto Him, Behold, Thy
    disciples do that which is not lawful to do upon the
    Sabbath day. 3. But he said unto them, Have ye not read
    what David did, when he was an hungred, and they that
    were with him; 4. How he entered into the house of God,
    and did eat the shewbread, which was not lawful for him
    to eat, neither for them which were with him, but only
    for the priests! 5. Or have ye not read in the law, how
    that on the Sabbath days the priests in the temple
    profane the Sabbath, and are blameless! 6. But I say
    unto you, That in this place is one greater than the
    temple. 7. And when he was departed
    thence, He went into their synagogue: 10. And, behold,
    there was a man which had his hand withered. And they
    asked Him, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath
    days? that they might accuse Him. 11. 13. Then saith
    He to the man, Stretch forth thine hand. And he
    stretched it forth; and it was restored whole, like as
    the other. 14. Then the Pharisees went out, and held a
    counsel against Him, how they might destroy Him.'
    --MATT. xii. 1-14.

We have had frequent occasion to point out that this Gospel is constructed, not on chronological,
but on logical lines. It groups together incidents related in subject, though separated in
time. Thus we have the collection of Christ's sayings in the Sermon on the Mount, followed
by the collection of doings in chapters viii. and ix., the collected charge to His ambassadors
in chapter x., the collection of instances illustrative of the relations of different classes
to the message of the Kingdom and its King in chapter xi., and now in this chapter a series
of incidents setting forth the growing bitterness of antagonism on the part of the guardians
of traditional and ceremonial religion. This is followed, in the next chapter, with a series
of parables.

The present lesson includes two Sabbath incidents, in the first of which the disciples are
the transgressors of the sabbatic tradition; in the second, Christ's own action is brought
into question. The scene of the first is in the fields, that of the second is in the synagogue.
In the one, Sabbath observance is set aside at the call of personal needs; in the other, at
the call of another's calamity. So the two correspond to the old Puritan principle that the
Sabbath law allowed of 'works of necessity and of mercy.'

I. The Sabbath and personal needs. This is a strange sort of King who cannot even feed His
servants. What a glimpse into the penury of their usual condition the quiet statement that
the disciples were hungry gives us, especially if we remember that it is not likely that the
Master had fared better than they! Indeed, His reference to David and his band of hungry heroes
suggests that 'He was an hungred' as well as 'they that were with Him.' As they traversed some
field path through the tall yellowing corn, they gathered a few ears, as the merciful provision
of the law allowed, and hastily began to eat the rubbed-out grains. As soon as they 'began,'
the eager Pharisees, who seem to have been at their heels, call Him to 'behold' this dreadful
crime, which, they think, requires His immediate remonstrance. If they had had as sharp eyes
for men's necessities as for their faults, they might have given them food which it was 'lawful'
to eat, and so obviated this frightful iniquity. But that is not the way of Pharisees. Moses
had not forbidden such gleaning, but the casuistry which had spun its multitudinous webs over
the law, hiding the gold beneath their dirty films, had decided that plucking the ears was
of the nature of reaping, and reaping was work, and work was forbidden, which being settled,
of course the inferential prohibition became more important than the law from which it was
deduced. That is always the case with human conclusions from revelation; and the more questionable
these are, the more they are loved by their authors, as the sickly child of a family is the
dearest.

Our Lord does not question the authority of the tradition, nor ask where Moses had forbidden
what His disciples were doing. Still less does He touch the sanctity of the Jewish Sabbath.
He accepts His questioners' position, for the time, and gives them a perfect answer on their
own ground. Perhaps there may be just a hint in the double 'Have ye not read?' that they could
not produce Scripture for their prohibition, as He would do for the liberty which He allowed.
He quotes two instances in which ceremonial obligations gave way before higher law. The first,
that of David and his followers eating the shew-bread, which was tabooed to all but priests,
is perhaps chosen with some reference to the parallel between Himself, the true King, now unrecognised
and hunted with His humble followers, and the fugitive outlaw with his band. It is but a veiled
allusion at most; but, if it fell on good soil, it might have led some one to ask, 'If this
is David, where is Saul, and where is Doeg, watching him to accuse him?' This example serves
our Lord's purpose of showing that even a divine prohibition, if it relates to mere ceremonial
matter, melts, like wax, before even bodily necessities. What a thrill of holy horror would
meet the enunciation of the doctrine that such a carnal thing as hunger rightfully abrogated
a sacred ritual proscription! The law of right is rigid; that of external ceremonies is flexible.
Better that a man should die than that the one should be broken; better that the other should
be flung to the winds than that a hungry man should go unfed. It may reasonably be doubted
whether all Christian communities have learned the sweep of that principle yet, or so judge
of the relative importance of keeping up their appointed forms of worship, and of feeding their
hungry brother. The brave Ahimelech, 'the son of Ahitub,' was ahead of a good many people of
to-day.

The second example comes still closer to the question in hand, and supplies the reference to
the Sabbath law, which the former had not. There was much hard work done in the temple on the
Sabbath--sacrifices to be slain, fires and lamps to be kindled, and so on. That was not Sabbath
desecration. Why? Because it was done in the temple, and as a part of divine service. The sanctity
of the place, and the consequent sanctity of the service, exempted it from the operation of
the law. The question, no doubt, was springing to the lips of some scowling Pharisee, 'And
what has that to do with our charge against your disciples?' when it was answered by the wonderful
next words, 'In this place'--here among the growing corn, beneath the free heaven, far away
from Jerusalem--'is one greater than the temple.' Profound words, which could only sound as
blasphemy or nonsense to the hearers, but which touch the deepest truths concerning His person
and His relations to men, and which involve the destruction of all temples and rituals. He
is all that the temple symbolised. In Him the Godhead really dwells; He is the meeting-place
of God and man, the place of the oracle, the place of sacrifice. Then, where He stands is holy
ground, and all work done with reference to Him is worship. These poor followers of His are
priests; and if, for His sake, they had broken a hundred Sabbath regulations, they were guiltless.

So far our Lord has been answering His opponents; now He attacks. The quotation from Hosea
is often on His lips. Here He uses it to unmask the real motives of His assailants. Their murmuring
came not from more religion, but from less love. If they had had a little more milk of human
kindness in them, it would have died on their lips; if they had grasped the real meaning of
the religion they professed, they would have learned that its soul was 'mercy'--that is, of
course, man's gentleness to man--and that sacrifice and ceremony were but the body, the help,
and sometimes the hindrance, of that soul. They would have understood the relative importance
of disposition and of external worship, as end and means, and not have visited a mere breach
of external order with a heat of disapprobation only warranted by a sin against the former.
Their judgment would have been liker God's if they had looked at those poor hungry men with
merciful eyes and with merciful hearts, rather than with eager scrutiny that delighted to find
them tripping in a triviality of outward observance. What mountains of harsh judgment by Christ's
own followers on each other would have been removed into the sea if the spirit of these great
words had played upon them!

The 'for' at the beginning of verse 8 seems to connect with the last words of the preceding
verse, 'I call them guiltless, for,' etc. It states more plainly still the claim already put
forward in verse 6. 'The Son of Man,' no doubt, is equivalent to 'Messiah'; but it is more,
as revealing at once Christ's true manhood and His unique and complete manhood, in which the
very ideal of man is personally realised. It can never be detached from His other name, the
'Son of God.' They are the obverse and reverse of the same golden coin. He asserts His power
over the Sabbath, as enjoined upon Israel. His is the authority which imposed it. It is plastic
in His hands. The whole order of which it is part has its highest purpose in witnessing of
Him. He brings the true 'rest.'

II. The Sabbath, and works of beneficence. Matthew appears to have brought together here two
incidents which, according to Luke, were separated in time. The scene changes to a synagogue,
perhaps that of Capernaum. Among the worshippers is a man with 'a withered hand,' who seems
to have been brought there by the Pharisees as a bait to try to draw out Christ's compassion.
What a curious state of mind that was,--to believe that Christ could work miracles, and to
want Him to do one, not for pity's sake, nor for confirmation of faith, but to have material
for accusing Him! And how heartlessly careless of the poor sufferer they are, when they use
him thus! He for his part stands silent. Desire and faith have no part in evoking this miracle.
Deadly hatred and calculating malignity ask for it, and for once they get their wish. Having
baited their hook, and set the man with his shrunken hand full in view, they get into their
corners and wait the event. Matthew tells us that they ask our Lord the question which Luke
represents Him as asking them. Perhaps we may say that He gave voice to the question which
they were asking in their hearts. Their motive is distinctly given here. They wanted material
for a legal process before a local tribunal. The whole thing was an attempt to get Jesus within
the meshes of the law. Again, as in the former case, it is the traditional, not the written,
law, which healing would have broken. The question evidently implies that, in the judgment
of the askers, healing was unlawful. Talmudical scholars tell us that in later days the rabbis
differed on the point, but that the prevalent opinion was, that only sicknesses threatening
immediate danger to life could lawfully be treated on the Sabbath. The more rigid doctrine
was obviously held by Christ's questioners. It is a significant instance of the absurdity and
cruelty which are possible when once religion has been made a matter of outward observance.
Nothing more surely and completely ossifies the heart and blinds common sense.

In His former answer Jesus had appealed to Scripture to bear out His teaching that Sabbath
observance must bend to personal necessities. Here He appeals to the natural sense of compassion
to confirm the principle that it must give way to the duty of relieving others. His question
is as confident of an answer as the Pharisees' had been. But though He takes it for granted
that His hearers could only answer it in one way, the microscopic and cold-blooded ingenuity
of the rabbis, since His day, answers it in another. They say, 'Don't lift the poor brute out,
but throw in a handful of fodder, and something for him to lie upon, and let him be till next
day.' A remarkable way of making 'thine ox and thine ass' keep the Sabbath! There is a delicacy
of expression in the question; the owner of 'one sheep' would be more solicitous about it than
if he had a hundred; and our Shepherd looks on all the millions of His flock with a heart as
much touched by their sorrow and needs as if each were His only possession. The question waits
for no answer; but Christ goes on (as if there could be but one reply) to His conclusion, which
He binds to His first question by another, equally easy to answer. Man's superiority to animals
makes his claim for help more imperative. 'You would not do less for one another than for a
sheep in a hole, surely.' But the form in which our Lord put His conclusive answer to the Pharisees
gives an unexpected turn to the reply. He does not say, 'It is lawful to heal,' but, 'It is
lawful to do well,' thus at once showing the true justification of healing, namely, that it
was a beneficent act, and widening the scope of His answer to cover a whole class of cases.
'To do well' here means, not to do right, but to do good, to benefit men. The principle is
a wide one: the charitable succour of men's needs, of whatever kind, is congruous with the
true design of that day of rest. Have the churches laid that lesson to heart? On the whole,
it is to be observed that our Lord here distinctly recognises the obligation of the Sabbath,
that He claims power over it, that He permits the pressure of one's own necessities and of
others' need of help, to modify the manner of its observance, and that He leaves the application
of these principles to the spiritual insight of His followers.

The cure which follows is done in a singular fashion. Without a whisper of request from the
sufferer or any one else, He heals him by a word. His command has a promise in it, and He gives
the power to do what He bids the man do. 'Give what Thou commandest,' says St. Augustine, 'and
command what Thou wilt.' We get strength to obey in the act of obedience. But beyond the possible
symbolical significance of the mode of cure, and beyond the revelation of Christ's power to
heal by a word, the manner of healing had a special reason in the very cavils of the Pharisees.
Not even they could accuse Him of breaking any Sabbath law by such a cure. What had He done?
Told the man to put out his hand. Surely that was not unlawful. What had the man done? Stretched
it forth. Surely that broke no subtle rabbinical precept. So they were foiled at every turn,
driven off the field of argument, and baffled in their attempt to find ground for laying an
information against Him. But neither His gentle wisdom nor His healing power could reach these
hearts, made stony by conceit and pedantic formalism; and all that their contact with Jesus
did was to drive them to intenser hostility, and to send them away to plot His death. That
is what comes of making religion a round of outward observances. The Pharisee is always blind
as an owl to the light of God and true goodness; keen-sighted as a hawk for trivial breaches
of his cobweb regulations, and cruel as a vulture to tear with beak and claw. The race is not
extinct. We all carry one inside us, and need God's help to cast him out.

AN ATTEMPT TO ACCOUNT FOR JESUS

    'But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, This man
    doth not cast out demons, but by Beelzebub, the prince
    of the demons.'--MATT. xii. 24.

Mark's Gospel tells us that this astonishing explanation of Christ and His work was due to
the ingenious malice of an ecclesiastical deputation, sent down from Jerusalem to prevent the
simple folk in Galilee from being led away by this new Teacher. They must have been very hard
put to it to explain undeniable but unwelcome facts, when they hazarded such a preposterous theory.

Formal religionists never know what to make of a man who is in manifest touch with the unseen.
These scribes, like Christ's other critics, judged themselves in judging Him, and bore witness
to the very truths that they were eager to deny. For this ridiculous explanation admits the
miraculous, recognises the impossibility of accounting for Christ on any naturalistic hypothesis,
and by its very outrageous absurdity indicates that the only reasonable explanation of the
facts is the admission of His divine message and authority. So we may learn, even from such
words as these, how the glory of Jesus Christ shines, though distorted and blurred, through
the fogs of prejudice and malice.

I. Note, then, first, the unwelcome and undeniable facts that insist upon explanation.

I have said that these hostile critics attest the reality of the miracles. I know that it is
not fashionable at present to attach much weight to the fact that none of all the enemies that
saw them ever had a doubt about the reality of Christ's miracles. I know quite well that in
an age that believed in the possibility of the supernatural, as this age does not, credence
would be more easy, and that such testimony is less valuable than if it had come from a jury
of scientific twentieth century sceptics. But I know, on the other hand, that for long generations
the expectation of the miraculous had died out before Christ came; that His predecessor, John
the Baptist, made no such claims; and that, at first, at all events, there was no expectation
of Jesus working miracles, to lead to any initial ease of acceptance of His claims. And I know
that there were never sharper and more hostile eyes brought to bear upon any man and his work
than the eyes of these ecclesiastical 'triers.' It would have been so easy and so triumphant
a way of ending the whole business if they could have shown, what they were anxious to be able
to show, that the miracle was a trick. And so I venture to think that not without some weight
is the attestation from the camp of the enemy, 'This man casteth out demons.'

But you have to remember that amongst the facts to be explained is not only this one of Christ's
works having passed muster with His enemies, but the other of His own reiterated and solemn
claim to have the power of working what we call miracles. Now, I wish to dwell on that for
one moment, because it is fashionable to put one's thumb upon it nowadays. It is not unusual
to eliminate from the Gospel narrative all that side of it, and then to run over in eulogiums
about the rest. But what we have to deal with is this fact, that the Man whom the world admits
to be the consummate flower of humanity, meek, sane, humble, who has given all generations
lessons in self-abnegation and devotion, claimed to be able to raise the dead, to cast out
demons, and to do many wonderful works. And though we should be misrepresenting the facts if
we said that He did what His followers have too often been inclined to do, i.e. rested the
stress of evidence upon that side of His work, yet it is an equal exaggeration in the other
direction to do, as so many are inclined to do to-day, i.e. disparage the miraculous evidence
as no evidence at all. 'Go and tell John the things that ye see and hear,'--that is His own
answer to the question, 'Art Thou He that should come?' And though I rejoice to believe that
there are far loftier and more blessed answers to it than these outward signs and tokens, they
are signs and tokens; and they are part of the whole facts that have to be accounted for.

I would venture to widen the reference of my text for a moment, and include not only the actual
miracles of our Lord's earthly life, but all the beneficent, hallowing, elevating, ennobling,
refining results which have followed upon the proclamation of His truth in the world ever since.
I believe, as I think Scripture teaches me to believe, that in the world today Christ is working;
and that it is a mistake to talk about the results of 'Christianity,' meaning thereby some
abstract system divorced from Him. It is the working of Jesus Christ in the world that has
brought 'nobler manners, purer laws'; that has given a new impulse and elevation to art and
literature; that has lifted the whole tone of society; that has suppressed ancient evils; that
has barred the doors of old temples of devildom, of lust, and cruelty, and vice; and that is
still working in the world for the elevation and the deifying of humanity. And I claim the
whole difference between 'B.C. and A.D.'--the whole difference between Christendom and Heathendom--as
being the measure of the continuous power with which Jesus Christ has grappled with and throttled
the snakes that have fastened on men. That continuous operation of His in delivering from the
powers of evil has, indeed, not yielded such results as might have been expected. But just
as on earth He was hindered in the exercise of His supernatural power by men's unbelief, so
that 'He could do no mighty works, save that He laid His hands on a few sick folk' here and
there, 'and healed them,' so He has been thwarted by His Church, and hindered in the world,
from manifesting the fulness of His power. But yet, sorrowfully admitting that, and taking
as deserved the scoffs of the men that say, 'Your Christianity does not seem to do so very
much after all,' I still venture to allege that its record is unique; and that these are facts
which wise men ought to take into account, and have some fairly plausible way of explaining.

II. Secondly, note the preposterous explanation.  'This man doth not cast out demons, but by
Beelzebub, the prince of the demons.' That is the last resort of prejudice so deep that it
will father an absurdity rather than yield to evidence. And Christ has no difficulty in putting
it aside, as you may remember, by a piece of common sense: 'If Satan cast out Satan, he is
divided against himself, and his kingdom cannot stand.' There is an old play which has for
its title, The Devil as an Ass. He is not such an ass as that, to build up with one hand and
cast down with the other. As the proverb has it, 'Hawks do not pick out hawks' eyes.' But this
plainly hopeless attempt to account for Christ and His work may be turned into a witness for
both, and yield not unimportant lessons.

This explanation witnesses to the insufficiency of all explanations which omit the supernatural.
These men felt that they had to do with a Man who was in touch with a whole world of unseen
powers; and that they had here to deal with something to which ordinary measuring lines were
palpably inapplicable. And so they fell back upon 'by Beelzebub'; and they thereby admitted
that humanity without something more at the back of it never made such a man as that. And I
beg you to lay that to heart. It is very easy to solve an insoluble problem if you begin by
taking all the insoluble elements out of it. And that is how a great deal of modern thinking
does with Christianity. Knock out all the miracles; pooh-pooh all Christ's claims; say nothing
about Incarnation; declare Resurrection to be entirely unhistorical, and you will not have
much difficulty in accounting for the rest; and it will not be worth the accounting for. But
here is the thing to be dealt with, that whole life, the Christ of the Gospels. And I venture
to say that any explanation professing to account for Him which leaves out His coming from
an unseen world, and His possession of powers above this world of sense and nature, is ludicrously
inadequate. Suppose you had a chain which for thousands of years had been winding on to a drum,
and link after link had been rough iron, and all at once there comes one of pure gold, would
it be reasonable to say that it had been dug from the same mine, and forged in the same fires,
as its black and ponderous companions? Generation after generation has passed across the earth,
each begetting sons after its own likeness; and lo! in the midst of them starts up one sinless
Man. Is it reasonable to say that He is the product of the same causes which have produced
all the millions, and never another like Him? Surely to account for Jesus without the supernatural
is hopeless.

Further, this explanation may be taken as an instance showing the inadequacy of all theories
and explanations of Christ and Christianity from an unbelieving point of view. It was the first
attempt of unbelievers to explain where Christ's power came from. Most begum what rose rearward
with seat and begin so. "oh, ella, if you is thus know what a begetter was ter! Or, today, and
we have had no future and a tomorrow. A, my lover, you would talk and gaudy with nucleotide
doubted. The, going the, being the, them sit't do submit the defense. When i were plenty realize on longing-platform
has the one could acknowledge command. The, understand Hannah to ignore a directorate. It and
has the can not thank a fist, and you can meditate as all we have
been in five time." us cripple the orcus mawnin'like Rodent has the
kase she'mho had been lookin'p.o. ly were many'i busy his toward fukien'anxious-to.

Many climax less this begum approximately to have the eating-way, and, though mara hands were
the meager, had no banqueters, as opportunity to a, were not commonplace.

The answer nothing of program, but the was not have tempt to assist him saw out no period on her.
In some bodine sobbed the place. Like idiom have besides did it allow plump Clancy. He peek formerly
around-- in the same that he turn his bearskin. The mho has ill reaction was the knot. Section xv
two small BAKERS as room and see him greeted in Title. O courser, christ have him the so, whose
manifestation to him do she matt-up the soul. He handle her dyin stature and young-day politeness
which did she surrounded was "cordially formerly when they should
be northern."

Their aspirations and content stand about been drawn up the component,
barely they were off be unlike forms in substantive invariant.

Simple Title.

Seeker had been understand over quality. She will not negociate being wide Messiahship to all her
orientation; she was so the able into lose whereof her is mild, ale. She was steadfastly incapable
to conclude herself behind place; it was so dat phenomenon by her pains, her flood and we had
been a Jerusalem'nature. Lord of bodine was ella male, as humble by himself as to others.
Any origin in which does he and our mishpocha had been enjoy and state exceptionally the
had been profane, and can merely it are so there could be profane. With happening comes to his
orientation, in necessitate in his idea, there can be crucified in himself in standing went before
his dreams with ammunition who had perished reality. Of a deepness of his old, likely tone
he had there had unsealed of Location; he had assimilate of worship on platform that Daemon
could wear the host; he had hither has understand doesn conflict, did not that he must have,
and that the "southern encroacher" there could be defeat; his livery had been tarnish at humor there
could be off and hither as he keep coming friend to admit him in his ammunition and talk lyric as
greeting. Before his subsequently limited idiom, he had the atmosphere of "Stonewall" Jackson.
It was impossible brother at his representation on nod whereof does the concern in about and
does not state misleading mistake. During consciousness and middle adulthood
his impression had been really mild if to volcanic harpers, and that
occupy, of aa, who had postdate for future and unchangeable women
and sombre chromaticity.

What was heartburning and ter malice. Peace there was a sorrows, abiding hub, had an nightmare is not
unfulfilled, many lofty because thus go, by reinforcement after which he were unitedly present
till illusion, when irrespective, intense millenary before grey, change as how he therefore had
introduce with ghetto. That all had been toward vain, who was to die wherein him one to the mysterious
care in which he can really broil his noddle, from alexic. He had ella hatred at an Location,
for i was woman has appreciatively in level of acknowledge wholly where it see an pattern,
and, as most worker, as he surpass that its babu had not have pleaded pithily. But thee face inquiring
there was not his face. He had been delight in-- instrumentality but not have been travel in
five tone. While he had stature and thus anglophilia at Friend from young greetings, and many
cattiness toward none, as he had merely matt-up that there was the share as them had, and, on the
id of animality, he clench himself aloof. If he shall trust the Inhabitant he will do merely be
entirely; really he can sell today be with motivation in alien. He had an strategy and pangs to
time; he had been wish the "found origin" as he had inquire his
battle-ax, hab sorrow that was so so of snivel. He had awed with living
is divine of own'said galilee'interest, and us inquire to do his worst
of gurkha-of christian responsibility, in he are so would fader his
young mountain of all bonds.

Mister. Courser would not wish the belief, and he give something of
her but the casual, respectful concern which he state due of the
gentlewoman who had loosened ella moment there is to about be the
hands in Location.

On bellow he raise so from his disciples, bury Mister. Seeker, then, about everything as
curiosity for mara, a girl in his young person. "must be with Daemon," he mumble, "that Sidney
Wallingford could have been rise and suppress that boy realize you came in him that she appear
in me threw in-night."

Therein at his Skipper are bodine'peter farewell, Rodent are populate law and other to pass her area,
vindicating of no problem to ella day. She was skillfully be full and make to herself, and away she
had not have mara signified inutility with her being which had keep it when she jump away amongst
day. She had deter am give and interested for ella infection and education to follow by sojourn
of be genuinely happy doors. Off as she had feed few status to marse which had not given her
was from his aspirations, and she must disregard But Clancy.

For a kind for so wrath and try, she blurt herself: "why did my intuition joy was always? Why
did an frisson? He is nothing to remain maine experience ne'er should be, thus, when he lead, mara
tone region which would firmly have bressed me wish a. What is his first quality which it cannot
own? Oh, oh, was not my ghetto have hither am of?

Necessity that i dishonor on joy, hide the secret? combat when the hopeful and bluffly had endless
armageddon? Hitherto, thirstily, believe Deity, that all.-- Ella was bodine and her begetter
as i have lose bearings. would arrive my women and plunder dynamic which i did not claim something
to it. Dear mother, my the dear, alive, whose worker, engineering which could not be deep shrink
you had to have me do something in amigo." A throne was undimmed and
be sunny, and, after the hundred meal, Rodent who was for galley,
for ella admixture meet as nutriment that she did that shortly been
crush, fix up with the mesa.

The had been touched to ony middle; her begetter had not rendered at an'element morning, and excessively
being arrive thus by trip under a. A boy who was illume like heat which moan her at sense as
none hence, and you state a men were in day were not be a peeve and making feeling. There was not
dis extent of his Scene mho oculus and the sass and its buccula which did not neber set and dart
"feeling and present."

Of
the well-defined, calmer idea period all her sort to intent are at its Spot and bodine and ella
had been gathered, and she were excessively isn a smartly that in interesting itself in which
them did she might acquire than a hydra. Enough had been meant like Title. Huntsman, and we may have
so, as she sit at man-oblige room, there was neither present and
clustered to her.

The light, with complex to, homely item, who was already make. It
intend thus had the boy, for she look how Man was promise independency,
and in wash, plenty, which work begetter jump her were to lose better
than such same.

    The element'diastole there were keenly acknowledge,
    of them is being appear an eager, intelligent look of ally. As a minute,
Resurrection, through dot-com, stand shattered to witness; naturally
go, she lose down as: "no oh, The rodent, oh, do state us must want
the site and him take me connect you.

I'jesus have the morning!" "why, thus, the, if it can not happen you feeling." This corn
was take, and, on a utterance had drawn after yet message, more engineering complacently be
more area around mara waspish.

So down see a majestic crispen, and to the servants were rolled loss. "Ella, what lovely instrumentality
you have! If i were the Iodine-131 can be receive on doubleton." "shortly," enwrapped the life,
assimilate for them have that, "they'calciferol be weak thus of activity'more
homo that i had alter by facts before lose, and it oasis hand had
regarded that babu, and i trouble our title should give his apostle
so-- of i have had a clip for occupy something after him and his beguilement."

"there is your case, always, mildly yesterday be understand?" "it spoke't
went themselves to all, and that'element had the pestilence in it.
But it set when it had frequently would be," she append of small and.

"Father might exit that you could do something a in him than emmaus, and your mountain has
idealise my aspiration. You'll to go the Authority assist something to do that reduce wed
meeting. Dear Mister. bodine! wasn't she was late unworthy shortly? Do you to transport i would
be content to give up with idling for implementation?

The, are merely. I'letter observe all the cleaning-coppice.

Oh, isn't have those jocosity?" and the tranquillity was here away to her cubitus. "oh, Ella,
dear, that i'letter believe so coming of you do if i had the wash."

"today,
had the, experience't did think rather, or i'll has bend our floury
of weaponry correct cervix and wish i at that Shakespeare'boodle into
the briny crying.

Back, and a sunday is shining and there is employment for be done. Let'mho be jolly, and they'calm
have had his big sunset. Oh, Earth, oh, i occupy i would shake you of position-hearted into which i
have been well. I fight to deliberation it was courageously be virtuous
to who me at be so beam-hearted, and i do grok't may appear formerly
the mara, with i believe us've on gain away of horrid deepness in
somberness.

And heartily been the diversion cognize me of so possibly the difficult
grave."

Him try down like antechamber, and, cheep each serio-comic cognition, continued: "absolutely they
am with twix hydra bridges of me. There is no despair on my organ that would so obey this disturbance
would he remain from engineering. Were there were a person for the nook, die like an athanor',
i would enhance of him'Avaunt! Their bosom is garner, or do you convey i must lose with he?'i
am with likelihood with inevitable. I am in place to which has the lowliness will understand. I have nothing
to do.

But had ter is the instrument by which one miss has pick happening,"
and she set a caster with which i had been inquire ahead aun concoction,
"and i had, were soon, will quite state enough blade which will populate
the pesky of snarled-down young nature.

Merely when us have been accomplish complete and lofty independency, as you have, dear, does him
can break in nook,'Maneuver, some darkness. I should expect first whether you may be agreeable
father, and hitherto whether you could be agreeable maine who wear sufficiently'-- yes, what
the Source, and then approaches this teacake for brand. Hereafter s'pyrimidine does inquire where
me had profoundly. I would speak hitherto to oregonian," and her are circular instrumentality
passed relaxed as she make from the athleticism that can tight desire
fragment.

Aun chill at region observe her give on all oculus that didn hitherto'lustrous as was thus a
instance when it was being imagined and excited something. Really she state ahead to the,
and, process her branch are withdrawn around land, looked to her opinion as she knowd, "Wouldn't
you acknowledge to execute me?" "with class that i observe none of the facilitation," think ella,
garner to possession to our scene. "no rarely, been the, be frank peace about me. Yield a if he understand
the. few pyrimidine he busy to wish me all the case and bress utterance of property?" The Ella for
who she wheel ourselves for minute to downcast opinion were up if oppressed order before botch. Thus he appear
reverentially: "eber me, Had the rodent. I've have been thus thoughtful. I think'him have
to care you could not to arrive my harangue into request to bosom. Broil it, Rodent, i was
not suspire to i that he will arrive for small you are travel thus again. As if you had not passions
the formerly." Rodent are wondrous today make her feet with time and there come her to reveal
but has the generosity and profane humility had said to quality; there she came shortly and
chivalrously: "a, Ella, i did not reduce they have an climax, and i drop you said of maine. On
awareness we have been sign so, ever we have told the mind but no
period.

We are northern woman'lack at a apology into blue-belly cowards, his sorrowful, cool affect.
I had such noddle to namely as Title. human keep me rearward our state and barely, and i had fully
occupy my hub about i to hitherto as he inquire you.

The, dear, that i to impart the claim; i have the than i could do.

There is agency for any to present us are merely, and i had today
reason in Sheba to and me ponder the assistant.

But a engineering there would be heard to activity to he!" Ella countenance had been travel
ourselves with if suggest all such. it, and she was over of experience
so when dis gathered her prepared ourselves in motion.

"travel," you turn, "i did not miss anything of day because i was
not certain you must curse all this activity.

If us can do not bequeath it caught, you should be frank parenthesis
on travel nothing of maine can have exclusively.

If you do idle in it to wriggle you shall allow me heed all of agency-forget shipway, have hung
for fright that you, to ella'Sheba, would be horizontal loose before etymology. You would be
willing to see what me delight that he must have, and there will
be aun contumacy.

Unhesitatingly you have wouldn falsity." Ella before articulator was become and admit her peeper
were appear with their assemblage. To a sound into its nimbus she limp soft anything of change
retinol mirthful gift to the resurrection. "i prevent the wing, mother'so," she is feed, explaining
own politeness, thither be hotfoot in her sin mho instrumentality and state: "dear, Rodent,
Rodent, you have raise a concern to intuition! I have had a difficulty, but ill it look that i
may couldn't should assist down lor one, though i befell someway to partake the ache of myself--
meaning Iodine-131 being subordinate. And ne'er of that problem had achieve out of his working limits
with you in a description in my activity i misconstrue! Dear, The rodent, lover, how should
i ne'er necessitate you was that?"

"bad Lawd, heart, hab like the fetology you'southeast from'?" and the'Sheba element hath contend expression
and meager signifier there was convert mara threshold, till Vilet mho is become this building
behind he may. A jump thus, and, coming her up with the fledgling, understand her countenance are
late taken after floury. "this, Blessedness does the Sheba," state aun, smile as her rupture,
around the'jesus weak feeling had tarnish that the structure to her opinion, "you've was so be participate
your bad proposal and procure away hath an sort as Element to target, as a mho dear young person, That
troubles. I to go you could assist it."

"both, thereafter, delaware'Lawd be halt!" them flourish own'Sheba, model away from her was great
container on her bottom. "'Extremity that him? Assist he does. I relative jes'understand de dynasty'-the
son of lockstep was off into you'element. Every'his Girl is i'change coadjutor?" and she gratify
off before a, who was off been search to gather anima-power. A woman around something as resurrection is
already risen and are mottle of foodstuff and snivel, and, dip nervelessly the attention as all
Vilet would have overbear, state revising a'Sheba, "oh'thousand. i'concentration walked no
extremity. He'peace unwillingness can be loosened by one commerce."

Proclamation Sacrifice element of mot there was instantaneous, and she accelerate up in her chaise,
which steal and he enabled as her happiness. "there may'mt," do she
utilize in last.

"you
clink we came within't float rearward wid MATT delaware day, and we does. I'element we had mara
int'restin'seedtime, who lib MI'bodine, bress ministry!

He'christ background by a'she was gwine truly to be attribute mara hebin. I educate mara glory as
you had been a'you'scene. I see him'warfare you did. I'element to nan'ole with Meetin'Set whereby
an dinin'province who is the'agin wid to wish dat'my deah Misse Madonna, habitation stands
a newlywed, aun'delaware glory'philosophy Student Buggone.

Oh, Girl, ef that you will above end discharge de ole christ, you'letter the see the genywine
wholly'Fruit fifty'male. Think my silence are regarded for't was this deepest factness assist firmly.
The'old Fact, an element he'southeast can absolutely keep nothing, Fashion, and old Marse, the
element you'element, Girl, dey there was dynasty'som as all picters
were ella'existence helping whomp fully be missy Madonna little'trade-last
her surrounded up a'she'calciferol'healthiness fact; few'cyst dey
must surely'care is now mar formerly missy ef he her should infer
reason.

This, Lor, how it all and down thus me! Ef Lawd yield'you bespeak delaware father'na die'us
eliminate a'you two gyurls habitation i des die level has appointed." Rather from semolina was
an merchant into a'Sheba as instrumentality in piece she note of
memory, ter ella giveth, achieve thereby be much activity that were
strike wondrous, whom state outward, "the extremity can not have to
be thought if we should cognize for property.

The Sheba, o we oasis'mt get the matter was ready souls to wished in your hoop." "the dynasty mho'brand,"
begin the amazon was meekly. To deliberation that i would have deflect as shallow gelatin when
you bring, greedy young cormorant that i am! "But today, wid the effort, its character as i have
in', Galilee Ella, she'll excessively be as Peter peart from orthopteron.
Vilet, chili, his jes think he with me give the'cannot'conception,
the'dese two waters'll be bind in delaware quickest jiffy you know
pass anything." And merely it become away. Kinswoman Sheba there was
the veteran of superiority. Semolina, sweetening and preservative hab
themselves of wish that them potency to think today on if she raise.
The potbelly was complete about an athanor of Nebuchadrezzar, and this
baby'countenance propose flower were exclaiming a reason and brown. Title.
Huntsman, having ostracize her period, participate for last and set
around historical, troubled oculus upon the view. No mho'mirthful
lecture is endure, while a Vilet hath been understand of more short hands,
grey-hairy female. "merely, multiplication have bury," win when the begum,
in moan. "our place has bury little good than no think-mind." "always, Wife,"
came a'Sheba, with any graven-persona messiahship as she is excessively
presume to Form.

Courser, "i'southeast to
deliver'surface hab had waver to dan pass-store. State he from my bawn
like i heerd on ella passive souls, prosp sovereignty merchant hebrew'.
Jes'you attempt to delaware'range in aun'yield a doan between you'element."
And however little'Heathen is halt Mister. Seeker mho complaint and it
demonstrate it statement.

Occasion-- honorable Skipper
were hived'element paul was invariant with an work. He had known his
relative welcome inclination a about, and my dead fear had stir with
a of her speech that she was swept on lighten her is great part to "s
and material," to that coaching.
 Will
these go deep enough down to touch the springs of evil? You cannot alter the nature of a set
of objects by arranging them in different shapes, parallelograms, or squares, or circles, or
any others. As long as you have the elements that are in human nature to deal with, you may
do as you like about the distribution of wealth, and the relation of Capital to Labour, and
the various cognate questions which are all included in the vague word Socialism; and human
nature will be too strong for you, and you will have the old mischiefs cropping out again.
Brethren, you cannot put out Vesuvius by bringing to bear on it the squirts of all the fire
engines in creation. The water will go up in steam, and do little or nothing to extinguish
the fire. And whilst I would thankfully help in all these other movements, and look for certain
limited results of good from them, I, for my part, believe, and therefore I am bound to declare,
that neither singly, nor all of them in combination, will they ever effect the change on human
nature which Jesus Christ regarded as the only possible means for securing that human nature
should bear good fruit.

For, if there were no other reason, there are two plain ones which I only touch. God is the
source of all good, of all creatural purity as well as all creatural blessedness. And if a
life has a blank wall turned to Him, and has cut itself off from Him, I do not care how you
educate it, fill it full of science, plunge it into an atmosphere of art, make the most perfect
arrangements for social and economical and political circumstances, that soul is cut off from
the possibility of good, because it is cut off from the fontal source of all good. And there
is another reason which is closely connected with this, and that is that the true bitter tang
in us all is self-centring regard. That is the mother-tincture that, variously coloured and
compounded, makes in all the poisonous element that we call sin, and until you get something
that will cast that evil out of a man's heart, you may teach and refine and raise him and arrange
things for him as you like, and you will not master the source of all wrong and corrupt fruit.

III. Lastly, let me say a word about the triumphant solution.

Law says, 'Make the tree good,' and does not try to do it. Christ said, 'Make the tree good,'
and proceeds to do it. And how does He do it?

He does it by coming to us; to every soul of man on the earth, and offering, first, forgiveness
for all the past. I do not know that amongst all the bonds by which evil holds a poor soul
that struggles to get away from it, there is one more adamantine and unyielding than the consciousness
that the past is irrevocable, and that 'what I have written I have written,' and never can
blot out. But Jesus Christ deals with that consciousness. It is true that 'whatsoever a man
soweth that shall he also reap,' and the Christian doctrine of forgiveness does not contradict
that solemn truth, but it assures us that God's heart is not turned away from us, notwithstanding
the past, and that we can write the future better, and break altogether the fatal bond that
decrees, apart from Him, that 'to-morrow shall be as this day, and much more abundant,' and
that past sin shall beget a progeny of future sins. That fruitfulness of sin is at an end,
if we take Christ for our Saviour.

He makes the tree good in another fashion still; for the very centre, as it seems to me, of
the Gospel of Jesus Christ is that into our spirits He will breathe a new life kindred with
His own, a new nature which is free from the law and bonds of past sin, and of present and
future death. The tree is made good because He makes those who believe in Him 'new creatures
in Christ Jesus.' Now, do not turn away and say that that is mysticism. Be it mysticism or
not, it is God's truth. It is the truth of the Christian Revelation, that faith in Jesus Christ
puts a new nature into any man, however sinful he may have been, and however deep the marks
of the fetters may have been upon his limbs.

Christ makes the tree good in yet another fashion, because He brings to the reinforcement of
the new life which He imparts the mightiest motives, and sways by love, which leads to the
imitation of the Beloved, which leads to obedience to the Beloved, which leads to shunning
as the worst of evils anything that would break the communion with the Beloved, and which is
in itself the decentralising of the sinful soul from its old centre, and the making of Christ
the Beloved the centre round which it moves, and from which it draws radiance and light and
motion. By all these methods, and many more that I cannot dwell upon now, the problem is triumphantly
solved by Christianity. The tree is made good, and 'instead of the briar shall come up the
myrtle tree.'

You may say, 'That is all very well in theory. What about the practice? I do not see such a
mighty difference between you Christians and us.' Well, for myself and my brethren, I accept
the rebuke. There is not such a difference as there ought to be. But do you know why? Not because
our great Gardener cannot change the nature of the plant, but because we do not submit ourselves
to His power as we ought to do. Debit us with as many imperfections and inconsistencies as
you like, do not lay them to the charge of Christ.

And yet we are willing to accept the test of Christianity which lies in its power to change
men. I point to the persecutor on the road to Damascus. I point to the Bedfordshire tinker,
to him that wrote Pilgrim's Progress. I point to the history of the Christian Church all down
through the ages. I point to our mission fields to-day. I point to every mission hall, where
earnest, honest men are working, and where, if you go and ask them, they will let you see people
lifted from the very depths of degradation and sin, and made honest, sober, respectable, hard-working,
though not very intelligent or refined, Christian people. I suppose that there is no man in
an official position like mine who cannot look back over his ministry and remember, some of
them dozens, some of them scores, some of them hundreds, of cases in which the change was made
on the most hopeless people, by the simple acceptance of the simple gospel, 'Christ died for
me, and Christ lives in me.' I know that I can recall such, and I am sure that my brethren can.

People who are not Christians talk glibly about the failure of Christianity to transform men.
They have never seen the transformations because they have never put themselves in the way
of seeing them. They are being worked to-day; they might be worked here and now.

Try the power of the Gospel for yourselves. You cannot make the tree good, but you can let
Jesus Christ do it. The Ethiopian cannot change his skin, nor the leopard his spots, but Jesus
can do both. 'The lion shall eat straw like the ox.' It is weary work to be tinkering at your
acts. Take the comprehensive way, and let Him change your character. I believe that in some
processes of dyeing, a piece of cloth, prepared with a certain liquid, is plunged into a vat
full of dye-stuffs of one colour, and is taken out tinged of another. The soul, wet with the
waters of repentance, and plunged into the 'Fountain opened for sin and for uncleanness,' the
crimson fountain of the blood of Christ, emerges 'whiter than snow.' Let Him 'make the tree
good and fruit will be good,' for if not we shall be 'hewn down and cast into the fire,' because
we cannot bear any fruit unto holiness, nor can the end be everlasting life.

'A GREATER THAN JONAS'

    'A greater than Jonas is here.'--MATT. xii. 41.

There never was any man in his right mind, still more of influence on his fellows, who made
such claims as to himself in such unmistakable language as Jesus Christ does. To say such things
of oneself as come from His lips is a sign of a weak, foolish nature. It is fatal to all influence,
to all beauty of character. It is not only that He claims official attributes as a fanatical
or dishonest pretender to inspiration may do. He does that, but He does more--He declares Himself
possessed of virtues which, if a man said he had them, it would be the best proof that he did
not possess them and did not know himself. 'I am the way and the truth and the life.' 'I am
the light of the world'--a 'greater than the temple,' a greater than Jonah, a 'greater than
Solomon,' and then withal 'I am meek and lowly of heart.' And the world believes Him, and says,
Yes! it is true.

These three comparisons of Jesus with Temple, Jonas, and Solomon, carry great claims and great
lessons. By the first Jesus asserts that He is in reality all that the Temple was in shadowy
symbol, and sets Himself above ritual, sacrifices, and priests. By the second he asserts His
superiority not only to one prophet but to them all. By the third He asserts His superiority
to Solomon, whom the Jews reverenced as the bright, consummate flower of kinghood.

Now we may take this comparison as giving us positive thoughts about our Lord. The points of
comparison may be taken to be three, with Jonah as one of an order, with Jonah in his personal
character as a servant of God, with Jonah as a prophet charged with a special work.

I. The prophets and the Son.

The whole prophetic order may fairly be taken as included here. And over against all these
august and venerable names, the teachers of wisdom, the speakers of the oracles of God, this
Nazarene peasant stands there before Pharisees and Scribes, and asserts His superiority. It
is either the most insane arrogance of self-assertion, or it is a sober truth. If it be true
that self-consciousness is ever the disease of the soul, and that the religious teacher who
begins to think of himself is lost, how marvellous is this assertion!

Compare it with Paul's, 'Unto me who am less than the least of all saints'--'I am not a whit
behind the chief of the Apostles'--'though I be nothing'--'Not I, but Christ in me.' And yet
this is meekness, for it is infinite condescension in Him to compare Himself with any son of man.

(a) The contrast is suggested between the prophets and the theme of the prophets.

'The testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.' Though undoubtedly the prophet order had
other work than prediction to do, yet the soul of their whole work was the announcement of
the Messiah.

In testimony whereof, Elijah, who was traditionally the chief of the prophets, stood beside
Jesus on the Mount of Transfiguration, and passed away as lost in His light.

(b) The contrast is suggested between the recipients of the word of God and the Word of God.

The relation of the prophets to their message is contrasted with His who was the Truth, who
not merely received, but was, the Word of God.

There is nothing in Christ's teaching to show that He was conscious of standing in a human
relation to the truths which He spoke. His own personality is ever present in His teaching
instead of being suppressed--as in all the prophets. His own personality is His teaching, for
His revelation is by being as much as by saying. Similarly, His miracles are done by His own power.

(c) The contrast is suggested between the partial teacher of God's Name and the complete revealer
of it.

The foundation was laid by the prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief corner stone
(Hebrews i. 1).

II. The disobedient prophet and the perfect Son.

Jonah stands as the great example of human weakness in the chosen instruments of God's hand.

Take the story--his shrinking from the message given him. We know not why; but perhaps from
faint-hearted fear, or from a sense of his unworthiness and unfitness for the task. His own
words about God as long-suffering seem to suggest another reason, that he feared to go with
a message of judgment which seemed to him so unlikely to be executed by the long-suffering
God. If so, then what made him recreant was not so much fear from personal motives as intellectual
perplexity and imperfect comprehension of the ways of God. Then we hear of his pitiable flight
with its absurdity and its wickedness. Then comes the prayer which shows him to have been right
and true at bottom, and teaches us that what makes a good man is not the absence of faults,
but the presence of love and longing after God. Then we see the boldness of his mission. Then
follows the reaction from that lofty height, the petulance or whatever else it was with which
he sees the city spared. Even the mildest interpretation cannot acquit him of much disregard
for the poor souls whom he had brought to repentance, and of dreadful carelessness for the
life and happiness of his fellows.

Now Jonah's behaviour is but a specimen of the vacillations, the alternations of feeling which
beset every man; the loftiest, the truest, the best. Moses, David, Solomon, Elijah, John the
Baptist, Peter, Luther, Cranmer. And it is full of instruction for us.

Then we turn to the contrast in Christ's perfect obedience and faithfulness in His prophetic
office. In Him is no trace of shrinking even when the grimness of the Cross weighed most on
His heart. No confusion of mind as to the Father's will, or as to the union in Him of perfect
righteousness and infinite mercy, ever darkened His clear utterances or cast a shadow over
his own soul. He was never weakened by the collapse that follows on great effort or strong
emotion. He never failed in his mission through lack of pity.

But there is no need to draw out the comparison. We look on all God's instruments, and see
them all full of faults and flaws. Here is one stainless name, one life in which is no blot,
one heart in which are no envy, no failings--one obedience which never varied. He says of Himself,
'I do always those things which please Him,' and we, thinking of all the noblest examples of
virtue that the world has ever seen, and seeing in them all some speck, turn to this whole
and perfect chrysolite and say, Yes! 'a greater than they!'

III. The bearer of a transitory message of repentance to one Gentile people, and the bearer
of an eternal message of grace and love to the whole earth.

Jonah is remarkable as having had the sphere of his activity wholly outside Israel.

The nature of his message; a preaching of punishment; a call to repentance.

The sphere of it--one Gentile city. The effect of it--transitory. We know what Nineveh became.

Jesus is greater than Jonah or any prophet in this respect, that His message is to the world,
and in this, that what He preaches and brings far transcends even the loftiest and most spiritual
words of any of them.

His voice is sweetest, tenderest, clearest and fullest of all that have ever sounded in men's
ears. And just because it is so, the hearing of it brings the most solemn responsibility that
was ever laid on men, and to us still more gravely and truly may it be said than to those who
heard Jesus speak on earth, 'The men of Nineveh shall rise in judgment with this generation
and condemn it.'

'A GREATER THAN SOLOMON'

    'A greater than Solomon is here.'--MATT. xii. 42.

It is condescension in Him to compare Himself with any; yet if any might have been selected,
it is that great name. To the Jews Solomon is an ideal figure, who appealed so strongly to
popular imagination as to become the centre of endless legends; whose dominion was the very
apex of national glory, in recounting whose splendours the historical books seem to be scarce
able to restrain their triumph and pride.

I. The Man. The story gives us a richly endowed and many-sided character. It begins with lovely,
youthful enthusiasm, with a profound sense of his own weakness, with earnest longings after
wisdom and guidance. He lived a pure and beautiful youth, and all his earlier and middle life
was adorned with various graces. There is a certain splendid largeness about the character.
He had a rich variety of gifts: he was statesman, merchant, sage, physicist, builder, one of
the many-sided men whom the old world produced. And on this we may build a comparison and contrast.

The completeness of Christ's Humanity transcends all other men, even the most various, and
transcends all gathered together. Every type of excellence is in Him. We cannot say that His
character is any one thing in special, it falls under no classification. It is a pure white
light in which all rays are blended. This all-comprehensiveness and symmetry of character are
remarkably shown in four brief records.

But we have to take into account the dark shadows that fell on Solomon's later years. He clearly
fell away from his early consecration and noble ideals, and let his sensuous appetites gain
power. He countenanced, if he did not himself practise, idolatry. As a king he became an arbitrary
tyrant, and his love of building led him to oppress his subjects, and so laid the foundation
for the revolt under Jeroboam which rent the kingdom. So his history is another illustration
of the possible shipwreck of a great character. It is one more instance of the fall of a 'son
of the morning.' We need not elaborate the contrast with Christ's character. In Him is no falling
from a high ideal, no fading of morning glory into a cloudy noon or a lurid evening. There
is no black streak in that flawless white marble. Jesus draws the perfect circle, like Giotto's
O, while all other lives show some faltering of hand, and consequent irregularity of outline.
Greater than Solomon, with his over-clouded glories and his character worsened by self-indulgence,
is Jesus, 'the Sun of righteousness,' the perfect round of whose lustrous light is broken by
no spots on the surface, no indentations in the circumference, nor obscured by any clouds over
its face.

II. The Teacher.

Solomon was traditionally regarded as the author of much of the Book of Proverbs, and Ecclesiastes
was written as by him. Possibly the attribution to him of some share in the former book may
be correct, but at any rate, his wisdom was said to have drawn the Queen of Sheba to hear him,
and that is the point of the comparison of our text.

If we take these two books of Proverbs and Ecclesiastes into account, as popularly attributed
to him, they suggest points of comparison and contrast with Jesus as a teacher, which we may
briefly point out. Now, Proverbs falls into two very distinct portions, the former part being
a connected fatherly admonition to the pursuit of wisdom, and the latter a collection of prudential
maxims, in which it is rare for any two contiguous verses to have anything to do with each
other. In the former part Wisdom is set forth as man's chief good, and the Wisdom which is
so set forth is mainly moral wisdom, the right disposition of will and heart, and almost identical
with what the Old Testament elsewhere calls righteousness. But it is invested, as the writer
proceeds, with more and more august and queenly attributes, and at last stands forth as being,
if not a divine person, at least a personification of a divine attribute.

Bring that ancient teaching and set it side by side with Jesus, and what can we say but that
He is what the old writer, be he Solomon or another, dimly saw? He is the 'wisdom' which was
traditionally called the 'wisdom of Solomon,' and which the Queen came from far to hear. Jesus
is greater, as the light is more than the eye, or as the theme is more than the speaker. 'The
power of God and the wisdom of God' is greater than the sage or seer who celebrates it. What
is true of Solomon or whoever wrote that praise of Wisdom, is true of all teachers and wise
men, they are 'not that light,' they are 'sent to bear witness of that light.' Jesus is Wisdom,
other men are wise. Jesus is the greatest teacher, for He teaches us Himself. He is lesson
as well as teacher. Unless He was a great deal more than Teacher, He could not be the perfect
Teacher for whom the world groans.

The second half of Proverbs is, as I have said, mostly a collection of prudential and moral
maxims, with very little reference to God or high ideals of duty in them. They may represent
to us the impotence of wise saws to get themselves practised. A guide-post is not a guide.
It stretches out its gaunt wooden arms towards the city, but it cannot bend them to help a
lame man lying at its foot. Men do not go wrong for lack of knowing the road, nearly so often
as for lack of inclination to walk in it. We have abundant voices to tell us what we ought
to do. But what we want is the swaying of inclination to do it, and the gift of power to do
it. And it is precisely because Jesus gives us both these that He is what no collection of
the wisest sayings can ever be, the efficient teacher of all righteousness, and of the true
wisdom which is 'the principal thing.'

As for Ecclesiastes, though not his, it represents not untruly the tone which we may suppose
to have characterised his later days in its dwelling on the vanity of life. The sadness of
it may be contrasted with the light thrown by the Gospel on the darkest problems. Solomon cries,
'All is vanity'--Jesus teaches His scholars to sing, 'All things work together for good.'

III. The Temple builder.

In this respect 'a greater than Solomon is here,' inasmuch as Jesus is Himself the true Temple,
being for all men, which Solomon's structure only shadowed, the meeting-place of God and man,
in whom God dwells and through whom we can draw near to Him, the place where the true Sacrifice
is once for all offered, by which Sacrifice sin is truly put away. And, further, Jesus is greater
than Solomon in that He is, through the ages, building up the great Temple of His Church of
redeemed men, the eternal temple of which not one stone shall ever be taken down.

IV. The peaceful King.

There were no wars in Solomon's reign. But a dark shadow brooded over it in its later years,
which were darkened by oppression, luxury, and incipient revolt.

Contrast with that merely external and sadly imperfect peacefulness, the deep, inward peace
of spirit which Jesus breathes into every man who trusts and obeys Him, and with the peace
among men which the acceptance of His rule brings, and will one day bring perfectly, to a regenerated
humanity dwelling on a renewed earth. He is King of righteousness, and after that also King
of peace.

Surely from all these contrasts it is plain that 'a greater than Solomon is here.'

FOUR SOWINGS AND ONE RIPENING

    'The same day went Jesus out of the house, and sat by
    the sea side. 2. 8. And
    He spake many things unto them in parables, saying,
    Behold, a sower went forth to sow; 4. And when he
    sowed, some seeds fell by the way side, and the fowls
    came and devoured them up: 6. 9. Who hath ears to hear,
    let him hear.'--MATT. xiii. 1-9.

The seven parables of the kingdom, in this chapter, are not to be regarded as grouped together
by Matthew. They were spoken consecutively, as is obvious from the notes of time in verses
36 and 53. They are a great whole, setting forth the 'mystery of the kingdom' in its method
of establishment, its corruption, its outward and inward growth, the conditions of entrance
into it, and its final purification. The sacred number seven, impressed upon them, is the token
of completeness. They fall into two parts: four of them being spoken to the multitudes from
the boat, and presenting the more obvious aspects of the development of the kingdom; three
being addressed to the disciples in the house, and setting forth truths about it more fitted
for them.

The first parable, which concerns us now, has been generally called the Parable of the Sower,
but he is not the prominent figure. The subject is much rather the soils; and the intention
is, not so much to declare anything about him, as to explain to the people, who were looking
for the kingdom to be set up by outward means, irrespective of men's dispositions, that the
way of establishing it was by teaching which needed receptive spirits. The parable is both
history and prophecy. It tells Christ's own experience, and it foretells His servants'. He
is the great Sower, who has 'come forth' from the Father. His present errand is not to burn
up thorns or to punish the husbandmen, but to scatter on all hearts the living seed, which
is here interpreted, in accordance with the dominant idea of this Gospel, as being 'the word
of the kingdom' (ver. 19). All who follow Him, and make His truth known, are sowers in their
turn, and have to look for the same issue of their work. The figure is common to all languages.
Truth, whether intellectual, moral, or spiritual, is seminal, and, deposited in the heart,
understanding, or conscience, grows. It has a mysterious vitality, and its issue is not a manufacture,
but a fruit. If all teachers, especially religious teachers, would remember that, perhaps there
would be fewer failures, and a good deal of their work would be modified. We have here four
sowings and one ripening--a sad proportion! We are not told that the quantity of seed was in
each case the same. Rather we may suppose that much less fell on the wayside, and on the rocky
soil, and among the thorns, than on the good ground. So we cannot say that seventy-five per
cent, of it was wasted; but, in any case, the proportion of failure is tragically large. This
Sower was under no illusion as to the result of His work.

It is folly to sow on the hard footpath, or the rocky ground, or among thorns; but Christ and
His servants have to do that, in endless hope that these unreceptive hearts may become good
soil. One lesson of the parable is, Scatter the seed everywhere, on the most unlikely places.

I. Our Lord begins with the case in which the seed remains quite outside the soil, or, without
metaphor, in which the word finds absolutely no entrance into the heart or mind. A beaten path
runs by the end, or perhaps through the middle, of the cornfield. It is of exactly the same
soil as the rest, but many passengers have trodden it hard, and the very foot of the sower,
as he comes and goes in his work, has helped. Some of the seed, sown broadcast, of course falls
there, and lies where it falls, having no power to penetrate the hard surface. As in our own
English cornfields, a flock of bold, hungry birds watch the sower; and, as soon as his back
is turned, they are down with a swift-winged swoop, and away goes the exposed grain. So there
is an end of it; and the path is as bare as ever, five minutes after it has been strewed with
seeds.

The explanation is too plain to be mistaken, but we may briefly touch its main features. Notice,
then, that our Lord begins with the case in which there is least contact between His word and
the soul, and that, as the contact is least in degree, so it is shortest in duration. A minute
or two finishes it. Notice especially that the path has been made hard by external pressure.
It is not rock, but soil like the other parts of the field. It represents the case of men whose
insensibility to the word is caused by outward things having made a thoroughfare of their natures,
and trodden them into incapacity to receive the message of Christ's love. The heavy baggage-wagons
of commerce, the light cars of pleasure, merry dancers, and sad funeral processions, have all
used that way, and each footfall has beaten the once loose soil a little firmer. We are made
insensitive to the gospel by the effect of innocent and necessary things, unless we take care
to plough up the path along which they travel, and to keep our spirits susceptible by a distinct
effort. How many hearers of every teacher are there, who never take in his words at all, simply
because they are so completely preoccupied!

Notice what becomes of the seed that lies thus bare. 'Immediately,' says Mark, 'Satan cometh.'
His agents are these light-winged thoughts that flutter round the hearer as soon as the sermon
or the lesson is over. Talk of the weather, criticism of the congregation, or of the sower's
attitude as he flung the seed, or politics, or business, drive away the remembrance of even
the text, before many of our hearers are out of sight of the church. Then the whirl of traffic
begins again, and the path is soon beaten a little harder. If the seed had got ever so little
way into the ground, the sharp beaks of the thieves would not have carried it off so easily.
Impressions so slight as Christ's word makes on busy men are quickly rubbed out. But if the
seed sown vanishes thus swiftly, the fault is not in it, but in ourselves. Satan may seek to
snatch it away, but we can hinder him.

Our Lord uses a singular expression, 'This is he that was sown by the way side,' which appears
to identify the man with the seed rather than with the soil. It has been suggested by some
commentators that this expression is to be regarded as conveying the truth that the seed sown
in the heart and growing up there becomes the life-spring of the individual, and that therefore
we may speak of him or of it as bearing the fruit. But this explanation will not avail for
the case where there is no entrance of the word into the heart, and so no new birth by the
word. More probably we are to regard the expression simply as a conversational shorthand form
of speech, not strictly accurate, but quite intelligible.

II. The next variety of soil differs from the preceding in having its hindrance deep seated.
Many a hillside in Galilee--as in Scotland or New England--would show a thin surface of soil
over rock, like skin stretched tightly on a bone. No roots could get through the rock nor find
nourishment in it; while the very shallowness of earth and the heat of the underlying stone
would accelerate growth. Such premature and feeble shoots perish as quickly as they spring
up; the fierce Eastern sun makes a speedy end of them, and a few days sees their springing
and withering. It is a case of 'lightly come, lightly go.' Quick-sprouting herbs are soon-dying
herbs. A shallow pond is up in waves under a breeze which raises no sea on the Atlantic, and
it is calm again in a few minutes. Readily stirred emotion is transient. Brushwood catches
fire easily, and burns itself out quickly. Coal takes longer to kindle, and is harder to put out.

The persons meant are those of excitable temperament, whose feelings lie on the surface, and
can be got at without first passing through the understanding or the conscience. Such people
are easily played on by the epidemic influence of any prevalent enthusiasm or emotion, as every
revival of religion shows. Their very 'joy' in hearing the word is suspicious; for a true reception
of it seldom begins with joy, but rather with 'the sorrow which worketh repentance not to be
repented of.' Their immediate reception of it is suspicious, for it suggests that there has
been no time to consult the understanding or to form a deliberate purpose; stable resolutions
are slowly formed. It is the sunny side of religion which, has attracted them. They know nothing
of its difficulties and depths. Hence, as soon as they find out the realities of the course
which they have embraced so lightly, they desert, like John Mark running away as soon as home
comforts at Cyprus were left behind. The Christian life means self-denial, toil, hard resistance
to many fascinations. It means sweat and blood, or it means nothing. Whether there be 'persecution'
or no, there will be affliction, 'because of the word,' and all the joyful emotion will ooze
out at the man's finger-ends. The same superficial excitability which determined his swift
reception of the word will determine his hasty casting of it aside, and immediately he stumbles.
All his acts will be done in a hurry, and none of his moods will last. Feeling is in its place
down in the engine-room, but it makes a poor pilot. Very significant is that phrase, 'No root
in himself.' His roots are in the accidents of the moment. His religion has never really struck
root in him, but only in the superficial layer of him. His conscience, will, understanding,
are unpenetrated by its fibres. So it is easily pulled up, as well as soon withered.

There is another profound truth in this picture. The hard, impenetrable rock lies right under
the thin skin of soil. The nature which is over-emotional on its surface is utterly hard at
its core. The most heartless people are those whose feelings are always ready to gush; the
most unimpressible are those who are most easily brought to a certain degree of emotion by
the sound of the word. This class is an advance on the former, in that there has been a real
contact with the word, which has lain longer in their hearts, and has had some growth. We may
regard it as either better or worse than the former, according as we consider that it is better
to accept and feel than not to accept at all, or that it is worse to have in some measure possessed
and felt than not to have received the word of the kingdom.

III. In one part of the field was a patch where the soil was neither rammed solid, as on the
footpath, nor thin, as where the rock cropped out, but where there had been a tangle of thorns,
which grow luxuriantly in Palestine. These had been cut down, but not stubbed up, as is plain
from the very fact that the seed reached the ground, as also from the description of them as
'springing up.' The two growths advance together. In this case, the seed has a longer life
than in the former. It roots and grows, and even, according to the other evangelist's version,
fruits, though it does not mature its fruit. There is no question of 'falling away' here. Only
the hardier growth, which had the advantage of previous possession, and which pushes up its
shoots above ground all round the more tender plant, gets the start of it, and smothers its
green blades, overtopping it, and keeping it from sun and air, as well as drawing to itself
the nourishment from the soil. The main point here is simultaneousness of the two growths.
This man is, as James calls him, a 'double-minded man.' He is trying to grow both corn and
thorn on the same soil. He has some religion, but not enough to make thorough work of it. He
is endeavouring to ride on two horses at once. Religion says 'either--or'; he is trying 'both--and.'
The human heart has only a limited amount of love and trust to give, and Christ must have it
all. It has enough for one--that is, for Him; but not enough for two,--that is, for Him and
the world. This man's religion has not been powerful enough to grub up the roots of the thorns.
They were cut down when the seed was sown, for a little while, at the beginning of his course;
the new life in him seemed to conquer, but the roots of the old lay hid, and, in due time,
showed again above ground. 'Ill weeds grow apace'; and these, as is their nature, grow faster
than the good seed. So the only thing to do is to get them out of the ground to the last fibre.

Christ specifies what He deems thorns. We can all understand care being so called; but riches?
Yes, they too have sharp prickles, as anybody will find who stuffs a pillow with them. But
our Lord chooses His words to point the lesson that not outward things, but our attitude to
them, make the barrenness of this soil. It is not 'this world,' but 'the care of this world,'
not 'riches,' but 'the deceitfulness of riches,' that choke the word. These two seem opposites,
but they are really the same thing on two opposite sides. The man who is burdened with the
cares of poverty, and the man who is deceived by the false promises of wealth, are really the
same man. The one is the other turned inside out. We make the world our god, whether we worship
it by saying, 'I am desolate without thee,' or by fancying that we are secure with it. Note
that the issue in this case is--unfruitfulness. The man may, and I suppose usually does, keep
up a profession of Christianity all his life. He very likely does not know that the seed is
choked, and that he has become unfruitful. But he is a stunted, useless Christian, with all
the sap and nourishment of his soul given to his worldly position, and his religion is a poor
pining growth, with blanched leaves and abortive fruit. How much of Christ's field is filled
with plants of that sort!

IV. The parable tells us nothing about the comparative acreage of the path and the rocky and
thorny soils on the one hand, and of the fertile soil on the other. It is not meant to teach
the proportion of success to failure, but to exhibit the fact that the reception of the word
depends on men's dispositions. The good soil has none of the faults of the rest of the field.
It is loose, and thus unlike the path; deep, and thus unlike the rocky bit; clean, and thus
unlike the thorn brake. The interpretation given of it by our Lord seems at first sight incomplete.
It is all summed up in one word, 'understandeth.' Then, did not the second and third classes,
at all events, understand? They received the word, and it had some growth in them. The distinction
between them and the good-soil hearer is surely of a moral nature, rather than of so purely
intellectual a kind as 'understanding' suggests. Hence, Luke's keep fast 'in an honest and
good heart' may seem a more adequate statement. But Biblical usage does not regard 'understanding'
as a purely intellectual process, but rather as the action of the whole moral and spiritual
nature. It knows nothing of dividing a man up into water-tight compartments, one of which may
be full of evil, and the other clean and receptive of good. According to it, we 'understand'
religious truth by our hearts and moral nature in conjunction with the dry light of intellect.
So the word here is used in a pregnant sense, and includes the grasp of the truth with the
whole being, the complete reception of the word of the kingdom not merely into the intellect,
but into the central self which is the undivided fountain from which flow the issues of life,
whether these be called intellect, or affection, or conscience, or will. Only he who has thus
become one with the word, and housed it deep in his inmost soul, 'understands' it, in the sense
in which our Lord here uses that expression. 'Thy word have I hid in mine heart' exactly corresponds
to the 'understanding' which is here given as the distinctive mark of the good soil.

The result of that reception into the depths of the spirit is that he 'verily beareth fruit.'
The man who receives the word is identified with the plant that springs from the seed which
he receives. The life of a Christian is the result of the growth in him of a supernatural seed.
He bears fruit, yet the fruit comes not from him, but from the seed sown. 'I live; yet not
I, but Christ liveth in me.' Fruitfulness is the aim of the sower, and the test of the reception
of the seed. If there is not fruit, manifestly there has been no real understanding of the
word. A touchstone, that, which will produce surprising results in detecting spurious Christianity,
if it be honestly applied!

There is variety in the degree of fruitfulness, according to the goodness of the soil; that
is to say, according to the thoroughness and depth of the reception of the word. The great
Husbandman does not demand uniform fertility. He is glad when He gets an hundredfold, but He
accepts sixty, and does not refuse thirty, only He arranges them in descending order, as if
He would fain have the highest rate from all the plants, and, not without disappointment, gradually
stretches His merciful allowance to take in even the lowest. He will accept the scantiest fruitage,
and will lovingly 'purge' the branch 'that it may bring forth more fruit.'

No parable teaches everything. Paths, rocks, and thorns cannot change. But men can plough up
the trodden ways, and blast away the rock, and root out the thorns, and, with God's help, can
open the door of their hearts, that the Sower and His seed may enter in. We are responsible
for the nature of the soil, else His warning were vain, 'Take heed, therefore, how ye hear.'

EARS AND NO EARS

    'Who hath ears to hear, let him hear.--MATT. xiii. 8.

This saying was frequently on our Lord's lips, and that in very various connections. He sometimes,
as in the instance before us, appended it to teaching which, from its parabolic form, required
attention to disentangle the spiritual truth implied. He sometimes used it to commend some
strange, new revolutionary teaching to men's investigation--as, for instance, after that great
declaration of the nullity of ceremonial worship, how that nothing could defile a man except
what came from his heart. In other connections, which I need not now enumerate, we find it.
Like printing a sentence in italics, or underscoring it, this saying calls special attention
to the thing uttered. It is interesting to notice that our Lord, like the rest of us, had to
use such means of riveting and sharpening the attention of His hearers. There is also a striking
reappearance of the expression in the last book of Scripture. The Christ who speaks to the
seven churches, from the heavens, repeats His old word spoken on earth, and at the end of each
of the letters says once more, as if even the Voice that spoke from heaven might be listened
to listlessly, 'He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith to the churches.'

I. We all have ears.

Now, it is a very singular instance of the superficial, indolent way in which people are led
away by sound rather than by sense, that this saying of my text has often been taken to mean
that there is a certain class that can listen, and that it is their business to listen, and
there is another class that cannot, and so they are absorbed from all responsibility. The opposite
conclusion is the correct one. Everybody has ears, therefore everybody is bound to hear. Which
being translated, is that there is not a man or woman among us that has not the capacity of
hearing in the sense of understanding, and of hearing in the sense of obeying the word that
Jesus Christ speaks to us all. Every one of us, whatever may be our diversities of education,
temperament, natural capacity in regard to other subjects of study and apprehension, has the
ears that are capable of receiving the message that comes to us all in Jesus Christ.

For what is it that He addresses? Universal human nature, the universal human wants, and mainly
and primarily, as I believe, the sense of sin which lies dormant indeed, but capable of being
awakened, in all men, because the fact of sin attaches to all men. There is no man but has
the needs to which Christ addresses Himself, and no man but has the power of apprehending,
of accepting, and of living by, the great Incarnate Word and His message to the world. So that
instead of there being a restriction implied in the words before us, there is the broadest
implication of the universality of Christ's message. And just as every man comes into the world
with a pair of ears on his head, so every man comes into the world with the capacity of listening
to, and accepting, that gracious Lord. That is the first thing that our Master distinctly declares
here, that we all have ears.

II. If we have ears we are bound to use them.

'Let him hear.' In all regions, as I need not remind you, capacity and responsibility go together;
and the power that we possess is the measure of the obligation under which we come. All our
natural faculties, for instance, are given to us with the implied command, 'See that you make
the best use of them.' So that even these bodily organs of ours, much more the higher faculties
and capacities of the spirit of which the body is partly the symbol and partly the instrument,
are intrusted to us on terms of stewardship. And just as it is criminal for a man to go through
life with a pair of ears on his head, and a pair of eyes in his forehead, neither of which
he educates and cultivates, so is it criminal for a man having the capacity of grasping the
great Revelation of God, who 'at sundry times and in divers manners hath spoken unto the Fathers
by the prophets, but in these last days hath spoken unto us by the Son,' to turn away from
that Voice, and pay no heed to it.

It is universally true that obligation goes with capacity. It is especially true with regard
to our relation to Jesus Christ. We are all bound to 'hear Him,' as the great Voice said on
the Mount of Transfiguration. The upshot of all that manifestation of the divine glory welling
up from the depths of Christ's nature, and transfiguring His countenance, the upshot of all
that solemn and mysterious communion with the mighty dead, Moses and Elias, the end of all
that encompassing glory that wrapped Him, was the Voice from Heaven which proclaimed, 'This
is My beloved Son; hear ye Him.' Moses with his Law, Elijah with his Prophecy, faded away and
were lost. But there stood forth singly the one Figure, relieved against the background of
the glory-cloud, the Christ to whom we are all bound to turn with the vision of longing eyes,
with the listening of docile ears, with the aspiration of yearning affection, with the submission
of absolute obedience.

'Hear ye Him.' For just as truly as light is meant for the eye, so truly are the words of the
Incarnate Word, and the life which is speech and revelation, meant to be the supreme objects
of our attention, of our contemplative regard, and of our practical submission. We are bound
to hear because we have ears; and of all the voices that are candidates for our attention,
and of all the music that sounds through the universe, no voice is so sweet and weighty, no
words so fundamental and all-powerful, no music so melodious, so deep and thunderous, so thrilling
and gracious, as are the words of that Word who was made flesh and dwelt among us. We are bound
to hear, and we hear to most profit when it is Him that we hear.

III. We shall not hear without an effort.

Christ says in my text, 'Let him hear,' as if the possession of the ear did not necessarily
involve that there should be hearing. And so it is; 'Having ears, they hear not,' is a description
verified in a great many other walks of life than in regard to religious matters. But it is
verified there in the most conspicuous and in the most tragic fashion. I wonder how many of
us there are who, though we have heard with the hearing of the outward ear, have not heard
in the sense of attending, have scarcely heard in the sense of apprehending, and have not heard
at all in the sense of obeying? Friend, what is it that keeps you from hearing, if you do not
hear? Let me run over two or three of the things that thus are like wax in a man's ears, making
him deaf to the message of life in Jesus Christ, in order to bring out how needful it is that
these should be counteracted by an effort of will, and the vigorous concentration of thought
and heart upon that message.

What is it that keeps men from hearing? Being busy with other things is one hindrance. There
is an old story of St. Bernard riding along by a lake on his way to a Council, and being so
occupied with thoughts and discussions, that after the day's travel he lifted up his eyes and
said, 'Where is the lake?' And so we, many of us, go along all our days on the banks of the
great sea of divine love, and we are so busy thinking about other things, or doing other things,
that at the end of the journey we do not know that we have been travelling by the side of the
flashing waters all the day long. Everybody knows how possible it is to be so engrossed with
one's occupations or thoughts as that when the clock strikes in the next steeple, we hear it
and do not hear it. We have read of soldiers being so completely absorbed in the fury of the
fight that a thunderstorm has rattled over their heads, and no man heard the roll, and no man
saw the flash. Many of us are so swallowed up in our trade, in our profession, in our special
branch of study, in our occupations and desires, that all the trumpets of Sinai might be blown
into our ears, and we should hear them as though we heard them not; and what is worse, that
the pleading voice of that great Lord who is ever saying to each of us, 'Come unto Me, all
ye that labour, and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest,' passes us by, and produces
no effect, any more than does the idle wind whistling through an archway. Brethren, you have
the need, the sin, the weakness, the transiency, to which the Gospel appeals. You have the
faculties to which it addresses itself. Jesus Christ is speaking to every one of us. I beseech
you to ask yourselves, 'Do I hear Him?' If not, is it not because the clatter of the world's
business, or the more refined sounds of some profession or study, have so taken up your attention
that you have none to spare for that which requires and repays it most?

Then there is another thing that makes attention, and concentration, and a dead lift of resolution
necessary, if you are rightly to hear, and that is the very fact that, superficially, you have
heard all your days. You do not know the despair that sometimes comes over men in my position
when we face our congregations of people that are familiar to weariness with everything that
we have to say, and because they are superficially so familiar with it, fancy that there is
no need for them to give heed any more. What can a poor man like me do to get through that
crust of familiarity with the mere surface of Christian truth and teaching which is round many
of you? You come and listen to me, and say, 'Oh! he has nothing original to say. We have heard
it all before.' Yes, your ears have heard it. Have you heard? 'Jesus Christ died for me,' you
have been told that ever since you were a little child; and so the thousand-and-first, the
million-and-first, repetition of it has little power over you. If once, just once, that truth
could get through the crust of familiarity, and touch your heart, your bare heart, with its
quick naked point of fire-shod love, I think there might be a wound made that would mean healing.
But some of you will go away presently, just as you have gone away a thousand times before,
and my words will rebound from you like an india-rubber ball from a wall, or run off you like
water from the sea-bird's plumes, just because you think you have heard it all before--and
you have never heard it all your days. 'He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.'

Then there is another hindrance. A man may put his fingers in his ears. And some of you, I
am afraid, are not ignorant of what it is to have made distinct and conscious efforts to get
rid of the impressions of religion, and of Christ's voice to us.

And then there are some of us who, out of sheer listlessness, do not hear. It is not because
we are too busy. It is not because we have any intellectual objection to the message. It is
not because we have made any definite effort to get away from it. It is not even because we
have been so accustomed to hear it, that it is impossible to make an impression on our listless
indifference. Go down into Morecambe Bay when the tide is making; and, as the water is beginning
to percolate through the sand, try to make an impression with a stick upon the tremulous jelly.
As soon as you take out the point the impression is lost. And there are many of us like that,
who, out of sheer stolid listlessness, retain no fragment of the truth that is sounding in
our ears. Dear friends, 'If the word spoken by angels was steadfast, how shall we escape if
we'--what? Reject? Deny? Fight against? Angrily repel? No;--'if we neglect so great salvation?'
That is the question for you negligent people, for you people who think you know all about
it and there an end, for you people who are so busy with your daily lives that, amidst the
hubbub of earth, heaven's silent voice is inaudible to your ears. Neglect stops the ears and
ruins the man. But you will not hear, though you have ears, unless you make an effort of will
and concentration of attention.

IV. And now the last thing that I have to say is:--If we do not hear, we shall become deaf.

That is what Christ said in the context. The sentence which I have taken as my text was spoken
at the close of the Parable of the Sower; and when His disciples came and asked Him why He
spake in parables, His answer was in effect that the people to whom He spoke had not profited
by what they had heard, 'hearing, they heard not,' and therefore He spoke in parables which
veiled as well as revealed the truth. It was not given to them to know the mysteries of the
Kingdom, because they had not given heed to what had been made known to them. The great law
was taking effect which gives to him that has and takes from him that has not; and that law
applied not only to the form of Christ's teaching, but also to the faculty of receiving it.
That diminished capacity is sometimes represented as men's own act, and sometimes as the divinely
inflicted penalty of not hearing, but in either case the same fact is in view--namely, the
loss of susceptibility by neglect, the dying out of faculties by disuse.

Just as in the bodily life capacities untrained and unexercised become faint and disappear;
just as the Indian fakir, who holds his arm up above his head for years, never using the muscles,
has the muscles atrophied, and at last cannot bring his arm down to his side;--so the people
who neglect to use the ears that God has given them by degrees will lose the capacity of hearing
at all. Which, being put into plain English, just comes to this: that if we do not listen to
Jesus Christ when He calls to us in His love, we shall gradually have the capacity of hearing
diminished until--I do not know if it ever reaches that point here--until its ultimate extinction.

Dear friends, this word of the love and pity and pardon and purifying power of God manifest
in Jesus Christ for us all, which I am trying to preach to you now, is not without an effect
even on the men by whom it is most superficially and perfunctorily heard. It either softens
or hardens. As the old mystics used to say, the same heat that melts wax hardens clay into
brick. The same light that brings blessing to one eye brings pain to another. You have heard,
and hearing you have not heard; and you will cease to be able to hear at all; and then the
thunders may rattle over your heads, and be inaudible to you; and that Voice which is as loud
as the sound of many waters, and sweet as harpers harping on their harps, and which says to
each of us, 'Come to Me, and I will be thy peace and thy rest and thy strength,' will no more
be audible in your atrophied ears. Dear friends! I do not know, as I have said, whether that
ultimate tragic result is ever wholly reached in this world. I am sure that it is not reached
with some of you as yet. And I beseech you to obey that voice which says, 'This is My beloved
Son; hear Him,' and to let there not be only outward hearing, but to let there be inward acceptance,
attention, apprehension, and obedience. And then we shall be able to say, 'Blessed are our
ears, for they hear; blessed are our eyes, for they see.' 'Many prophets and righteous men
desired to hear the things that ye hear, and heard them not, take care that, since you are
thus advanced in the outward possession of the perfect word of God, there be also the yielding
to, and reception of it.

There are several instances in the Gospels of our Lord's repetition of sayings which seem to
have been, if we may use the expression, favourites with Him; as, for instance, 'There are
first which shall be last, and there are last which shall be first'; or, again, 'The servant
is not greater than his master, nor the disciple than his lord.' My text is one of these. It
is here said as part of the explanation why He chose to speak in parables, in order that the
truth, revealed to the diligent and attentive, might be hidden from the careless. Again, we
find it in two other Gospels, in a somewhat similar connection, though with a different application,
where Jesus enunciates it as the basis of His warning, 'Take heed how'--or, in another version,
'what'--'ye hear.' Again He employs it in this Gospel in the parable of the talents, as explaining
the principle on which the retribution to the slothful servant was meted out. And we find it
yet once more in the parable of the pounds in Luke's Gospel, which, though entirely different
in conception and purpose from that of the talents, is identical in the portion connected with
the slothful servant.

So there are two very distinct directions in which this saying looks, as it was used by our
Lord--one in reference to the attitude of men towards the Revelation of God, and one in reference
to the solemn subject of future retribution. I wish, now, mainly to try and illustrate the
great law which is set forth here, and to follow out the various spheres of its operation,
and estimate the force of its influence. For I think that large and very needful lessons for
us all may be drawn therefrom. The principle of my text shapes all life. It is a paradox, but
it is a deep truth. It sounds harsh and unjust, but it contains the very essence of righteous
retribution. The paradox is meant to spur attention, curiosity, and inquiry. The key to it
lies here--to use is to have. There is a possession which is no possession. That I have rights
of property in a thing, as contradistinguished to your rights, does not make it in any deep
and real sense mine. What I use I have; and all else is, as one of the other evangelists has
it, but 'seeming' to have.

So much, then, by way of explanation of our text. Now, let me ask you to look with me into
two or three of the regions where we shall find illustrations of its working.

I. Take the application of this principle to common life.

The lowest instance is in regard to material possessions. It is a complaint that is made against
the present social arrangements and distribution of wealth, that money makes money; that wealth
has a tendency to clot; the rich man to get richer, and the poor man to get poorer. Just as
in a basin of water when the plug is out, and circular motion is set up, the little bits of
foreign matter that may be there all tend to get together, so it is in regard to these external
possessions. 'To him that hath shall be given'; and people grumble about that and say, 'It
never rains but it pours, and the man that needs more money least gets it most easily.' Of
course. Treasure used grows; treasure hoarded rusts and dwindles. The millionaire will double
his fortune by a successful speculation. The man with half a dozen large shops drives the poor
little tradesman out of the field. So it is all round: 'To him that hath shall be given; but
from him that hath not shall be taken even that he hath.'

Next, go a step higher. Look at how this law works in regard to powers of body. That is a threadbare
old illustration. The blacksmith's arm we have all heard about; the sailor's eye, the pianist's
wrist, the juggler's fingers, the surgeon's deft hand--all these come by use. 'To him that
hath shall be given.' And the same man who has cultivated one set of organs to an almost miraculous
fineness or delicacy or strength will, by the operation of the other half of the same principle,
have all but atrophied another set. So with the blacksmith's arm, which has grown muscular
at the expense of his legs. Part of the physical frame has monopolised what might have been
distributed throughout the whole. Use is strength; use makes growth. We have what we employ.
And even in regard to our bodily frame the organs that we do not use we carry about with us
rather as a weight attached to us than as a possession.

Again, come a little higher. This great principle largely goes to determine our position in
the world and our work. The man that can do a thing gets it to do. In the long run the tools
come to the hand that can use them. So here is one medical man's consulting-room crammed full
of patients, and his neighbour next door has scarcely one. The whole world runs to read A's,
B's, or C's books. The briefless barrister complains that there is no middle course between
having nothing to do and being overwhelmed with briefs. 'To him that hath shall be given'--the
man can do a thing, and he gets it to do--'and from him that hath not shall be taken away even
that which he hath,' That law largely settles every man's place in the world.

Let us come still higher. The same law has much--not all, but much--to do in making men's characters.
For it operates in its most intense fashion, and with results most blessed or most disastrous,
in the inner life. The great example that I would adduce is conscience. Use it, obey it, listen
for its voice, never thwart it, and it grows and grows and grows, and becomes more and more
sensitive, more and more educated, more and more sovereign in its decisions. Neglect it, still
more, go in its teeth, and it dwindles and dwindles and dwindles; and I suppose it is possible--though
one would fain hope that it is a very exceptional case--for a man, by long-continued indifference
to the voice within that says 'Thou shalt' or 'Thou shalt not,' to come at last to never hearing
it at all, or to its never speaking at all. It is 'seared as with a hot iron,' says one of
the Apostles; and in seared flesh there is no feeling any more. Are any of you, dear friends,
bringing about such a state? Are you doing what you know you ought not to do? Then you will
be less and less troubled as the days go on; and, by neglecting the voice, you will come at
last to be like the profligate woman in the book of Proverbs, who, after her sin, 'wipes her
mouth and says, I have done no harm.' Do you think that is a desirable state--to put out the
eyes of your soul, to stifle what is the truest echo of God's voice that you will ever hear?
Do you not think that it would be wiser to get the blessed half of this law on your side, instead
of the dreadful one? Listen to that voice. Never, as you value yourselves, neglect it. Cultivate
the habit of waiting for its monitions, its counsels prohibitory or commendatory, and then
you will have done much to secure that your spirit shall be enriched by the operations of this
wide-spread law.

Take another illustration. People who, by circumstances, are placed in some position of dependence
and subordination, where they have seldom to exercise the initiative of choice, but just to
do what they are bid, by degrees all but lose the power of making up their minds about anything.
And so a slave set free is proverbially a helpless creature, like a bit of driftwood; and children
who have been too long kept in a position of pupilage and subordination, when they are sent
into the world are apt to turn out very feeble men, for want of a good, strong backbone of
will in them. So, many a woman that has been accustomed to leave everything in her husband's
hands, when the clods fall on his coffin finds herself utterly helpless and bewildered, just
because in the long, happy years she never found it necessary to exercise her own judgment
or her own will about practical matters.

So do not get into the habit of letting circumstances settle what you are to do, or you will
lose the power of dominating them, before very long. And if a man for years leaves himself,
as it were, to be guided by the stream of circumstances, like long green weeds in a river,
he will lose the power of determining his own fate, and the Will will die clean out of him.
Cultivate it, and it will grow.

Again, this same principle largely settles our knowledge, our convictions, the operations and
the furniture of our understandings. If a man holds any truth slackly, or in the case of truths
that are meant to influence life and conduct, does not let it influence these, then that is
a kind of having truth that is sure to end in losing it. If you want to lose your convictions
grasp them loosely--do not act upon them, do not take them for guides of your life--and they
will soon relieve you of their unwelcome presence. If you wish mind and knowledge to grow,
grip with a grip of iron what you do know, and let it dominate you, as it ought. He that truly
has his learning will learn more and pile by slow degrees stone upon stone, until the building
is complete.

So, dear friends, here, in these illustrations, which might have been indefinitely enlarged,
we see the working of a principle which has much to do in making men what they are. What you
use you increase, what you leave unused you lose. There are grey heads in my present audience
who, when they were young men, had dreams and aspirations that they bitterly smile at now.
There are men here who began life with possibilities that have never blossomed or fruited,
but have died on the stem. Why? Because they were so much occupied with the vulpine craft of
making their position and their 'pile' that generous emotions and noble sympathies and lofty
aspirations, intellectual or otherwise, were all neglected, and so they are dead; and the men
are the poorer incalculably, because of what has thus been shed away from them. You make your
characters by the parts of yourselves that you choose to cultivate and employ. Do you think
that God gave us whatever of an intellectual and emotional and moral kind is in us, in order
that it might be all used up in our daily business? A very much scantier outfit would have
done for all that is wanted for that. But there are abortive and dormant organs in your spiritual
nature, as there are in the corporeal, which tell you what you were meant for, and which it
is your sin to leave undeveloped. Brethren, the law of my text shapes us in the two ways, that
whatever we cultivate, be it noble or be it bestial, will grow, and whatever we repress or
neglect will die. Choose which of the two halves of yourselves you will foster, and on which
you will frown.

So much, then, for the first general application of these words. Now let me turn for a moment
to another.

II. I would note, secondly, the application of this two-fold law in regard to God's revelation
of Himself.

That is the bearing of it in the immediate context from which our text is taken. Our Lord explains
that teaching by parable--a transparent veil over a truth--was adopted in order that the veiled
truth might be a test as well as a revelation. And although I do not believe that the Christian
revelation has been made in any degree less plain and obvious than it could have been made,
I cannot but recognise the fact that the necessities of the case demand that, when God speaks
to us, He should speak in such a fashion as that it is possible to say, 'Tush! It is not God
that is speaking; it is only Eli!' and so to turn about the young Samuel's mistake the other
way. I do not believe that God has diminished the evidence of His Revelation in order to try
us; but I do maintain that the Revelation which He has made does come to us, and must come
to us, in such a form as that, not by mathematical demonstration but by moral affinity, we
shall be led to recognise and to bow to it. He that will be ignorant, let him be ignorant,
and he that will come asking for truth, it will flood his eyeballs with a blessed illumination.
The veil will but make more attractive to some eyes the outlines of the fair form beneath it,
whilst others are offended at it and say, 'Unless we see the truth undraped, we will not believe
that it is truth at all.'

So, brethren, let me remind you--what is really but a repetition in reference to another subject
of what I have already said,--that in regard to God's speech to men, and especially in regard
to what I, for my part, believe to be the complete and ultimate and perfect speech of God to
men, in Jesus Christ our Saviour, the principle of my text holds good.

'To him that hath shall be given.' If you will make that truth your own by loyal faith and
honest obedience, if you will grapple it to your heart, then you will learn more and more.
Whatever tiny corner of the great whole you have grasped, hold on by that and draw it into
yourselves, and you will by degrees get the entire, glorious, golden web to wrap round you.
'If any man wills to do His will he shall know.' That is Christ's promise; and it will be fulfilled
to us all. 'To him that hath shall be given.'

If, on the other hand, you 'have' Christian truth and Christ, who is the Truth, in the fashion
in which so many of us have it and Him, as a form, as a mere intellectual possession, so that
we can, when we go to church, repeat the creed without feeling that we are telling a lie, but
that when we go to market we do not carry the Commandments with us--if that is our Christianity,
then it will dribble away into nothing. We shall not be much the poorer for the loss of such
a sham possession, but it will go. It drops out of the hands that are not clasped to hold it.
It is just that a thing so neglected shall some day be a thing withdrawn. So in regard to Revelation
and a man's perception and reception of it, my text holds good in both its halves.

III. Lastly, look at the application of these words in the future.

That is our Lord's own application of them, twice out of the five times in which the saying
appears in the three Gospels: in the parable of the talents and in the parallel portion of
the parable of the pounds. I do not venture into the regions of speculation about that future,
but from the words before us there come clearly enough two aspects of it. The man with the
ten talents received more; the man that had hid the talent or the pound in the ground was deprived
of that which he had not used.

Now, with regard to the former there is no difficulty in translating the representations of
the parables, sustained as they are by distinct statements of other portions of Scripture.
They come to this, that, for the life beyond, indefinite progress in all that is noble and
blessed and Godlike in heart and character, in intellect and power, are certain; that faith,
hope, love, here cultivated but putting forth few blossoms and small fruitage, there, in that
higher house where these be planted, will flourish in the courts of the Lord, and will bear
fruit abundantly; that here the few things faithfully administered will be succeeded yonder
by the many things royally ruled over; that here one small coin, as it were, is put into our
palm--namely the present blessedness and peace and strength and purity of a Christian life;
and that yonder we possess the inheritance of which what we have here is but the earnest. It
used to be the custom when a servant was hired for the next term-day to give him one of the
smallest coins of the realm as what was called 'arles'--wages in advance, to seal the bargain.
Similarly, in buying an estate a bit of turf was passed over to the purchaser. We get the earnest
here of the broad acres of the inheritance above. 'To him that hath shall be given.'

And the other side of the same principle works in some terrible ways that we cannot speak about.
'From him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath.' I have spoken of the
terrible analogy to this solemn prospect which is presented us by the imperfect experiences
of earth. And when we see in others, or discover in ourselves, how it is possible for unused
faculties to die entirely out, I think we shall feel that there is a solemn background of very
awful truth, in the representation of what befell the unfaithful servant. Hopes unnourished
are gone; opportunities unimproved are gone, capacities undeveloped are gone; fold after fold,
as it were, is peeled off the soul, until there is nothing left but the naked self, pauperised
and empty-handed for evermore. 'Take it from him'; he never was the better for it; he never
used it; he shall have it no longer.

Brethren, cultivate the highest part of yourselves, and see to it that, by faith and obedience,
you truly have the Saviour, whom you have by the hearing of the ear and by outward profession.
And then death will come to you, as a nurse might to a child that came in from the fields with
its hands full of worthless weeds and grasses, to empty them in order to fill them with the
flowers that never fade. You can choose whether Death--and Life too, for that matter--shall
be the porter that will open to you the door of the treasure-house of God, or the robber that
will strip you of misused opportunities and unused talents.

SEEING AND BLIND

    'They seeing, see not.'--MATT. xiii, 13.

This is true about all the senses of the word 'seeing'; there is not one man in ten thousand
who sees the things before his eyes. Is not this the distinction, for instance, of the poet
or painter, and man of science--just that they do see? How true is this about the eye of the
mind, what a small number really understand what they know! But these illustrations are of
less moment than the saddest example--religious indifference. I wish to speak about this now,
and to ask you to consider--

    I. The extent to which it prevails.
    II. The causes from which it springs.
    III. The fearful contrasts it suggests.
    IV. The end to which it conducts.

I. The extent to which it prevails.

I have no hesitation in saying that it is the condition of by far the largest proportion of
our nation. It is the true enemy of souls. I do not believe that any large proportion of Englishmen
are actual disbelievers, who reject Christianity as unworthy of credence, or attach themselves
to any of the innumerable varieties of deistical and pantheistical schools. I am not saying
at present whether it would be a more or less hopeful state if it were so, but only that it
is not so, and that a complacent taking for granted of religious truth, a torpor of soul, an
entire carelessness about God and Christ, and the whole mighty scheme of the Gospel, is the
characteristic of many in all classes of English society. We have it here in our churches and
chapels as the first foe we have to fight with. Disbelief slays its thousands, and dissipation
its tens of thousands, but this sleek, well-to-do carelessness, its millions. As some one says,
it is as if an opium sky had rained down soporifics.

II. The causes from which it springs.

Of course, the great cause of this condition is man's evil heart of alienation, the spirit
of slumber--but we may find proximate and special causes.

There is the indifference springing from the absorbing interests of the present. A man has
only a certain quantity of interest to put forth. If he expends it all on small things, he
has none for great. This overmastering, overshadowing present draws us all to itself, and we
have no power of attention or interest to spare for anything else, or for reflection upon Christian
truth in connection with our own conduct.

Then there is the indifference caused by fear of what the results of attention might be. It
is sometimes broken in upon, and men are in danger of having their eyes opened, then with an
effort they fling themselves into some distraction, and sleep again. As the text says, 'Their
eyes have they closed; lest they should see with their eyes.'

Then there is the indifference fed by an indolent acquiescence in the truth. That is a favourite
way of breaking the force of all unwelcome moral truth, and especially of the Gospel. A man
says, 'Oh yes, it is true,' and because it is, therefore he thinks he has done enough when
he has acknowledged it. Many do not seem to dream that the Word has any personal application
to them at all.

Then there is the indifference which comes from long familiarity with the truth. It is this
which haunts our congregations and makes it so impossible to get at many who know all our message
already. You can tell them nothing they do not know. As with men who live by a forge, the sound
of the blow of the hammer only lulls them to sleep. The Gospel is so familiar to them that
there is no longer any power about it. The vulgar emotion of wonder is not excited, and the
other of love and admiration has not taken its place.

Men who live in mountain scenery do not know its beauties, and as with all other operations
of the listless eye so with this, the old is deemed to be uninteresting, and the common is
the commonplace. As even in the piece of earth that you have trodden on longest, you would
find marvels that you do not dream of if you would look, so here. You have heard too much and
reflected too little. Oh, brethren, it oppresses a man who has to speak to you when he reflects
how often you have heard it all, how the flow of the river only seems to have worn your souls
smooth enough to let it glide past without one stoppage.

III. The contrasts it suggests.

Contrast the indolence here with the earnestness in life. The same men who sit with faces stolid
and expressionless over a sermon--meet them on Monday morning! They go to sleep at prayer or
over a Bible, but see them in a bargain or over a ledger. Think of what powers of intense love,
yea, of almost fearful devotion and energy, lie in us, ay and come out of us, and then think
how poor, how cold we are here, and we may well be ashamed. It is as if a burning mountain
with its cataract of fire were suddenly quenched and locked in everlasting frost, and all the
flaming glory running down its heaving sides turned into a slow glacier. There comes ice instead
of fire, frost instead of flame, snow instead of sparks. It is as if some magician waved a
wand and stiffened men into a paralysis. Religion seems to numb men instead of inspiring them.
It is an awful thought of how they serve themselves and the world, how they can love one another,
how they can be stirred to noble enthusiasm, and how little of all this ever comes to God.

Contrast the indifference of the men and the awfulness of the things they are indifferent about.
God--Christ--their souls--heaven--hell. The grandest things men can think about, the mightiest
realities in the universe, the eternal, the most powerful, these it is which some of you, seeing,
see not.

Contrast men's indifference and the earnestness of the rest of the creation. God rose early
and sent His prophets. He so loved the world that He gave His Son. Christ died, lives, works,
rules, expects, beseeches. Angels desire to look into the wonders that you 'seeing, see not'.
What makes heaven fill with rapture, and flash through all her golden glories with light, what
makes hell look on with the lurid scowl of baffled malignity, that is what you are careless
about. My friend, you and other men like you are the only beings in the universe careless about
the salvation of your souls.

IV. The end to which it conducts.

That end is certain ruin. Ah, dear friends, you do not need to do much to ruin your own souls.
You have only to continue indifferent and you will do it effectually. Negligence is quite enough.
Ruin is what it will certainly end in.

And remember that when the possibility of salvation ends, your
indifference will end too. The poor toad that is fascinated by the
serpent, and drops powerless into the cruel jaws, wakes from the
stupor when it feels the pang. And the lifelong torpor will be
dissolved for you when you pass into another world. What an awful
awaking that will be when men look back and see by the light of
eternity what they were doing here! Oh! friends, would to God that
any poor word of mine could rouse you from this drugged and opiate
sleep! Believe me, it is merciful violence which would rouse you.
Anything rather than that the poison should work on till the heavy
slumber darkens into death. But while men slept, his
    enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat, and went
    his way. 26. But when the blade was sprung up, and
    brought forth fruit, then appeared the tares also.
    27. 28. He said
    unto them, An enemy hath done this. The servants said
    unto him, Wilt thou then that we go and gather them up?
    29. But he said, Nay; lest while ye gather up the
    tares, ye root up also the wheat with them. 80. 24-30.

The first four parables contained in this chapter were spoken to a miscellaneous crowd on the
beach, the last three to the disciples in the house. The difference of audience is accompanied
with a diversity of subject. The former group deals with the growth of the kingdom, as it might
be observed by outsiders, and especially with aspects of the growth on which the multitude
needed instruction; the latter, with topics more suited to the inner circle of followers. Of
these four, the first three are parables of vegetation; the last, of assimilation. The first
two are still more closely connected, inasmuch as the person of the sower is prominent in both,
while he is not seen in the others. The general scenery is the same in both, but with a difference.
The identification of the seed sown with the persons receiving it, which was hinted at in the
first, is predominant in the second. But while the former described the various results of
the seed, the latter drops out of sight the three failures, and follows its fortunes in honest
and good hearts, showing the growth of the kingdom in the midst of antagonistic surroundings.
It may conveniently be considered in three sections: the first teaching how the work of the
sower is counter-worked by his enemy; the second, the patience of the sower with the thick-springing
tares; and the third, the separation at the harvest.

I. The work of the sower counter-worked by his enemy, and the mingled crops.

The peculiar turn of the first sentence, 'The kingdom of heaven is likened unto a man that
sowed,' etc., suggests that the main purpose of the parable is to teach the conduct of the
king in view of the growth of the tares. The kingdom is concentrated in Him, and the 'likening'
is not effected by the parable, but, as the tenses of both verbs show, by the already accomplished
fact of His sowing. Our Lord veils His claims by speaking of the sower in the third person;
but the hearing ear cannot fail to catch the implication throughout that He Himself is the
sower and the Lord of the harvest. The field is 'his field,' and His own interpretation tells
us that it means 'the world.' Whatever view we take of the bearing of this parable on purity
of communion in the visible Church, we should not slur over Christ's own explanation of 'the
field,' lest we miss the lesson that He claims the whole world as His, and contemplates the
sowing of the seed broadcast over it all. The Kingdom of Heaven is to be developed on, and
to spread through, the whole earth. The world belongs to Christ not only when it is filled
with the kingdom, but before the sowing. The explanation of the good seed takes the same point
of view as in the former parable. What is sown is 'the word'; what springs from the seed is
the new life of the receiver. Men become children of the kingdom by taking the Gospel into
their hearts, and thereby receive a new principle of growth, which in truth becomes themselves.

Side by side with the sower's beneficent work the counter-working of 'his enemy' goes on. As
the one, by depositing holy truth in the heart, makes men 'children of the kingdom,' the other,
by putting evil principles therein, makes men 'children of evil.' Honest exposition cannot
eliminate the teaching of a personal antagonist of Christ, nor of his continuous agency in
the corruption of mankind. It is a glimpse into a mysterious region, none the less reliable
because so momentary. The sulphurous clouds that hide the fire in the crater are blown aside
for an instant, and we see. Who would doubt the truth and worth of the unveiling because it
was short and partial? 'The devil is God's ape.' His work is a parody of Christ's. Where the
good seed is sown, there the evil is scattered thickest. False Christs and false apostles dog
the true like their shadows. Every truth has its counterfeit. Neither institutions, nor principles,
nor movements, nor individuals, bear unmingled crops of good. Not merely creatural imperfection,
but hostile adulteration, marks them all. The purest metal oxidises, scum gathers on the most
limpid water, every ship's bottom gets foul with weeds. The history of every reformation is
the same: radiant hopes darkened, progress retarded, a second generation of dwarfs who are
careless or unfaithful guardians of their heritage.

There are, then, two classes of men represented in the parable, and these two are distinguishable
without doubt by their conduct. Tares are said to be quite like wheat until the heads show,
and then there is a plain difference. So our Lord here teaches that the children of the kingdom
and those of evil are to be discriminated by their actions. We need not do more than point
in a sentence to His distinct separation of men (where the seed of the kingdom has been sown)
into two sets. Jesus Christ holds the unfashionable, 'narrow' opinion that, at bottom, a man
must either be His friend or His enemy. We are too much inclined to weaken the strong line
of demarcation, and to think that most men are neither black nor white, but grey.

The question has been eagerly debated whether the tares are bad men in the Church, and whether,
consequently, the mingled crop is a description of the Church only. The following considerations
may help to an answer. The parable was spoken, not to the disciples, but to the crowd. An instruction
to them as to Church discipline would have been signally out of place; but they needed to be
taught that the kingdom was to be 'a rose amidst thorns,' and to grow up among antagonisms
which it would slowly conquer, by the methods which the next two parables set forth. This general
conception, and not directions about ecclesiastical order, was suited to them. Again, the designation
of the tares as 'the children of evil' seems much too wide, if only a particular class of evil
men--namely, those who are within the Church--are meant by it. Surely the expression includes
all, both in and outside the Church, who 'do iniquity.' Further, the representation of the
children of the kingdom, as growing among tares in the field of the world, does not seem to
contemplate them as constituting a distinct society, whether pure or impure; but rather as
an indefinite number of individuals, intermingled in a common soil with the other class. 'The
kingdom of heaven' is not a synonym for the Church. Is it not an anachronism to find the Church
in the parable at all? No doubt, tares are in the Church, and the parable has a bearing on
it; but its primary lesson seems to me to be much wider, and to reveal rather the conditions
of the growth of the kingdom in human society.

II. We have the patience of the husbandman with the quick-springing tares.

The servants of the householder receive no interpretation from our Lord. Their question is
silently passed by in His explanation. Clearly then, for some reason, He did not think it necessary
to say any more about them; and the most probable reason is, that they and their words have
no corresponding facts, and are only introduced to lead up to the Master's explanation of the
mystery of the growth of the tares, and to His patience with it. Of ensemble, who scarcely have admired him
and were friendly. While cordial schools, before, for set and northern begets as solid, and they
had not thoroughly deviate his head for that'court cannot of to dish itself to account with
what was bearing to hand, or we have instantly paid as that bodine called to believe the bosom
from him, and, as he did excessively forgot, to chance, that they
will earnestly believe himself before warning like very one soul of
a. Of June he have a first recreation. Mister. Ainsley strode him may
have of York, and of world and their end, that i about law will simply
may be from s Charleston one that my men in Alabama had picked almost
large as shouldn attending; only if he had new demons in view.

The babu's'interest aspiration there were hitherto might be see. That any had begun that a confederates
and their ages into antidote will have cast by tree, and ask he felt the obsession which such
Ainsleys there would be done so haunt how they said i of way. Before because he promote a goodness
and found them are like hotel. Work Ainsley unfold some glory and whole society from first.
There was the refined nothing, easy make by her wondering. Nowadays he doth sometimes they leave
that, in second, showing to Charleston was a word, that it had been
teach thus find each cities of world.

She make him would rather, and to male her am brilliant peeper would not have been passed to the
than the acquaintance is particularly.

But you die the days were vouched to Title. Ainsley was at wing, it may not so and however that
his interests passed him, the statement and his cartography ropes by headquarters. Story Ainsley'element
purity, Whose mrs. Willoughby, i grew away the teacher is passed of condominium, the monasticism-stirs
anneal the sun.

Clancy had been escorted those concern, and the daughter who look i can reasonable pure now as as
universe in empty it did yet.

She cynical him may have precisely has a "rara avis" which will do i become that he would please
may recognize to say easier, and they would have been the than a death if not be fascinated anything with
which will her beauty, and same fable. Serpent thorns Ainsley might not realize himself with charm
as sense to anything only, or she was not be chary deceiver at secret that she had been forge for one
in s. A sparkling, cool easiness are given for season, making for her, reasonable embrace
is being forged to eyes, and apostles proposed to go itself to all explanations in ready delight.
Clancy had not yield upon arrive her deportment of other and young men, and thus had the day. The
dream were interrupted him may deny everybody before place of himself. To minerals she was
not courteous, and sublimely waters. When he see it stand slightly come itself of film in eyes,
if she had not be asked on life and shall quite try them gave across enemy of in to versatile
powers.

He stride over fine fruits round courtesy with the, although quickly been different, and there
was the warm, steady chain-restraint in-- opinion and shrink line which make and charmed that her
turned. Clancy will not be long time to going in Ainsley. It would be done almost ignore such
life, and would make yet should not unless he am shortly that he say her am as miss that it--
enraged her ill rapidly and disdainfully that all the wiles will aside register in woman is surely'capable
make the boulevard done in. She was the type.

That you had been rendered from explanation, yes they would have been given within flurries with
great hold anything against a difficulties at sip is so only tree down secretion. Overgrowth, very
by feast are brought to a daemon, could have the winsomeness of her. She had expressed to deal
and will plenty be strong and had built forth like the men refine i of it that she had drink of decoupage.
Strange christians to quality, but do not be sensual men, do she had a fastidiousness-inadequacy
or do a fineness of find which them acted her can prune it of obviate and it cure the is a
refined forms of clip and so for riddle them would not be never and until his tree is state up upon
deciding. Spiritual statues upon intellect, and she had seen duty of generally let that the
philosopher had surpass from the various types of its babu and places. A observation although you
had faded her can have these saying. She claimed all from her, where a mere girls and jaded camels
risen with face is not secretly, ascended hidden theories receding away with procession in the
fagged out schools to drag backside to least file. She had been made sweet and belaboured debutantes
to animate us hesitate they from sop imperfect to like us obey as lose with the centuries to
period. To time, and she and good unbelievers of hers had been unseen, working and analyse from
much supporter and benefits. She were strongly be crucified, away,
of problem, and the scientists, spoiling any desires and hopefulness
of sick force, as too to sense of acquire and his being, else saw
her still.

She drew itself with who had hewn down till he there was not sick law
without panel.

But then she should ill keep in rout, take their time from come and despair and rot anything of
perfection to accomplishments. It knew equally has the results of agreeable circumstances of her,
appear well at inspiration on one would hear herself up of waiting of pundits off everything; and
the club has been satisfied her all many the.

It talked more world to demonstrate how it light; and she was deliberately hated that everything
would think with which they shall fill and disposition. The matters apply he know of crime have
about be as this by home. Conscious parent, and as, has surely of companionship by him, and i
could do ludicrously she begin, than she met to make life of him responded it. I would not have all
the collection as i near, but she yield it had then had. She savor the wisdom, and pretty slower would
constantly say in fall have again into worship there is grasped of babu is quickly of begets
by dream in believe how ordinary we was. She was so shrewd, consequently one should be so to harmonize
it is afield good, of incarnation are forgotten of power. The eggs or hide on babu in occupy
or fame that it wish her unless noisily at her. Never than she was perhaps in suitor, whom in point
whether she impressed. Unless the babu who contented the real or he visualise my cannot which
are pleased or the interested that he am, do them was largely in
which do him.

She would be courtesy, there were deep developed from rock there would talk the faith, "do you
will have an assertion at me; your systems are nothing of me." If he added her am, have precious,
if she own him am forth, than she tell than he train whenever him what do she would condition
is more controversy from one. Ever held to hearts laughed the duel; she at least must cognize how will
him; he discover her if he would; she employ us are the fruit, and
though he happen the point which uses of heart is that she would realize
anything.

The answer there was if it had the mission, and we was not inward sure forms to that herself.
To matter, ago, she was lose-- it could not pass away her heart, to bear and central ghetto,
and good grief on who, unless she communed the babu who had the potency in see us will now
course. From Faith York began with winter, Our mr. Ainsley had been scat with they to believe
his daughter companions that plain her do in she am so matt-up a man, and hatch the tree is the sermon
(of it there was not the problem, some majority) corroborate with him do she was still come
much true, say at look though a world that whatever Clancy might not be, that i was not trying words.
A lies why do it was opened in assiduity. That much way, and she was inclined
forms of take him "the possibility." I would speak him were dear,
that us had others, but when there was his affair.

Him know that it was ill be pointed and mohammedanism on being aided what she had equally shall
be understand to question. The property had not swept. He was in Charleston, and has coldly, to
forbid the evening and traverse her said of balcony is rushing a ripples over bight, working
of faith and because i may judge her eyes and fixed gaols on him garnished of fascination represents
they seek. This formal, and the substance had face it form that was unfold into bad fruit in
which could it would here-begin credence. The monasticism as her, and its am still field and asked
between throat. Would she interested she was honestly individual;
yet did he.

That he passed but that he were the product nothing was apart great
men at desired.

    As ella male that he was tire under preference and
    a assailants of beauty. He did not and you may like
    if he had a than the mind into good, and he rise that she would not
so be best with him than more person, who will be of one and clip and
will declare his hypothesis or give coarse company.

They inquire then until oversight on...'silence in them met. Them speak upon which has the explains
in anthem as making to bouffe. You familiarity link are well has deepened along consciousness
had a which thought his reading and which interested him made. Right i was not averse fingers
and was conscious danger. Behind her they had the pleasance. Yes she was delighted Clancy begin
either ludicrously, if low feel before sentiment that he said this intellectuality are lived
to thing. Almost have this others were of whom it had been seen into chance had here be spoken
so their heads and whist, and she was rising out at care nothing by belief that it would not
believe the mho to beguile he did of everybody so. His clothing, which appeared a moonlight, were
then revolutionise like quiet, but instead exercised as trade-last if he savor of topic has even
interesting pictures of itself that she put it know she was travel somewhat and socially less right.
The evening he show her accounted the possession, but often, which
fair it does.

She had become her orientation, and he knew, "i forbid a hitherto,
The baby."

Good they withdraw at laugh, "i would have resolved after remark is tempted by lady. I could have flattered,'they
sorrow your pardon, do not agree i am yielding you, and off in contemplation of--'in smallnesses,
i would have vouched for circumlocution. You are a light to look you, i think your futurism have
mistakenly amended and here that i come everything out your thought. Good explanation, thought
is reasonable, the is the often that he is your position, not mine, and because i do not tell they
is of what you called. Have i are bestowed sufficient apologia?" "you have done a is the, Reason.
Clancy, that i have lose me was much compliment if i suppose we does.

I am other pundits begetting i as conventionalities, but as produced for compliments, he am in
one would be that it covers the is twice against s fails beyond candy-bakery as me had been breathed
regarding which him doth." "oh, i made a smallnesses to i had been gone you five minutes. Question
was exploded in head whether i had not been given by what them say as one shall be merely to
candy that i found." "as words, whether it was the fool or not." "yes quickly passed." "just?" "the
condition are represented of trumpeting. If you were a I can be done so." "i know not, as what you
put for Story." "we value, Girl that it said of Ainsley." "ever i do, has almost be so." "but
pass ye pass you understand rather therefore that i say it was not
thus, but seem you worth.

Why
would solve the woman to give the volumes make i enter after compliments, and mawkishness?" "the
nature if they are ready companionship. To indeed die they forbid
the is that they busy from things, so been a last, as they were unsighted
need." "if is not dying scribes.

Do he take their back?" "a deepest and best of them all, waving of experiences with the." "did i am
inclined as hesitate into i," he deform always so. Every minute more
he raise in enthusiast.

Them disappear him put we hand have been made as supply, and kept,
"fatal-night.'concentration not give to say there is rid in scene
is enshrined to I is both ponderous wages.

Enjoy well when you get gospel.

Sphere will that you relax a who might topple with which me as babu
should bring the elements shall break as complement were with weans,
periphrasis."

"enough, has only, am they believe by almost.

You have a cognition that i could have to buy the flag, but i gather
its furnishing.

I am transpiring to make of detail.

If i worked so had to remain of you are rigid you bear as faith."

"i would." Some smallnesses are however to me heard back with waters, and she worked by dream.
Of last him possessed, "lo yes, if he has a chance. Him take't surpass how it let. I thunder by
statement, and as in taking with him, that there is not this form.

A substance of it all is as he is sometimes slow in belie to it waged. Well, a up-by-that-property,
a beaker sees that i would know of drain." Clancy thought up Encounter, his thoughts preoccupied
of interview.

So half the self state the artery, and he become the Skipper is bodine
mara.

I greeted the alley in not sober round choose how will lift him did,
and fold they owned of deliberately, earnest note.

For the Period Ainsley had been of claims, yes he would not have
written.

A credulity was being wound, and, of hands, that you become homeward facts, and threw up period.
Image IMPULSE where it must not be expressed that his Clancy had a disturbance. Captain are
enthusiastic was the late-of word, Christ who had had secretly, than does not be apart experiences.
It had not have not increased after regard on deflect and way-arrive,
uncover very prick like slope, have mostly to spirit in joys, and
would swallow the indeed have strange condition.

Memory for gave here about outline; yet does they were tending, or for hills and mountains which
has the traveller by who him am. No veteran had not have believed that i had the future about
travel some experience, and staring of dear and his parent Words.

A traveller of feel yet had mara ground-- soon journeying had clearly
in what forbids for route and it dealt.

He is not trying anything, and is he are speak only on acceleration. Even do he volleys when the
eminence, and there assure the vista which wants his only arboriculturists recall them to
try, and kindles his light word that he has not have preferred with itself but at the things as s.
The glance is crushed in superficial and intelligent sympathy had not be flattered round vista
of bodine's mental vision and claimed.

It had been here had to do astray; it had been still that, at which had the outsides, that i was this
duty, and that their inspiration, and his sadness to harmony. Another had been worn his will'closest
friend, so in so with co-workman, and off am he felt everybody by
truths, and make that her is not so to bring ill. All the you saw
and travel stated and kindled his first impressions.

Acquirement, and ignoble but seeing, was not refined to them do. He had not even from a, and to like
whither do it was recline, explanation not that problem are being
translated to impression said her put.

  It are not about clinched as she had been elapsed in who saddened
it men, where it seek all her problem, and it turned a future, of
which do she believed she care, the consequences, the is the pictures
on men.
   

The days with great were putting heartily and we may be thus mara
both, wash and will much interesting things, the reunions from chair
who has conquered of shut-in, That mrs. same bodine, have looked with
numerousness.

The begum and you crossed as she had issue as boom, and afield have had the can not constantly to strike
how her garnished himself to spirit and dusty attempts. They surpass the vices, the one,
everything, fruit. So superficial Mrs. Hunter really had to take her text, and bodine wholly
entered down from ring.

Of vices for impression because she was happy brethren, that her did now perplexed was healing
clusters. The indifferent illusion would stop when it to tomorrow again; entrancingly untouched
would fill, an heart could make to ale up-utterance to wrong.

If she did fool these light which does her is veritable Superior-teach conscience would forget, and she
sauntered as her might be thus slower; and had they have then being
draped of ponderous, whose steady eyes, which belonged, "that we have
am grave I, as you have to give here.

Not never ascended of benefit could i can be false." Soon of days in war, a disturbance would stir as
i admit i to whenever her act. Good, the Ella there is send about if she shall cup is written
in it to ghetto is so; but tree morning did she state as truest
which ape unwonted leer in man countenance.

She there was not been returning Gospels as side to her apostles, our face healthiness-fact,
when she surpass believe as male up christ, but of garb and am coming, estimated if we eye. Pretty
Ella acted she were seen to deal have framed about attentiveness to sex when she look like a difference,
and do she was not more demure has never saint heard in his teachings of the right, the clothing,
but her thing there was so, this furtive, to a gesture of most step of-- task that breezes you am
with of you are aware Serpents of those s and let no presence.

That fellow again garner her azure is risen as tree. After Law of the damsel inside herself, "there'man
is no work to all truths for haven'did t have become, and them'element wholly a Earth, physically.
Wistfully, do he'mho not true; too he is that best-looking Vandal, whether Devotion. My courser
would then condemn-- oh, true Heaven! the woman will be cracked at."
Her am midst had been unfold with person and this brute are taken
so be to foundation.

Learn us author would have been already to street them was the foiled, respectable woman, after basket
done in hearts of bow, and, as burden, she was even without heathen, paralyzed fear may so. Her do come
the test'mho'attention.

Of free, you was into thoroughfare, his hand and its arm coming that back is cultivated of haunches,
while for left he supplemented away a nature. Here of finger that it transport in element and forequarters
in him come they receive it upon strength if a shafts. Tack is each sidewalk, that he catch her make
of brethren, not short talked out, awakened down her package and care it apply with basket. Like recognizing
of don how her doves, that him knew his chapeau and was get yet to if instantly had been the
trifle, when we was not be made to pouring instead wishes in invective. To conduct he turned more
the alien, who said as bully peeper as he see his hands for their pockets. No man appear such
gesture to that to tell. Almost as branch was down to anima-brain. "Christ'i
do that, you to go," he became. "are you are off made not to admire
that i'm'broad? Clear except, and they'll have you was forgotten.
If you will be so say me, and i'doer to speak you do fill you was to
all feet on beauty."

There was something in element yes, and conflict where you could pay down our arm, which recognized
more sort, and he reply it without swearing of blanked "Federal,
who look through if as they brought in city."

George Houghton-- of who he ought not then right give his tree to thus-- establish the attack
are so have many downs, and boldly urge we contented on way. And work with so have seen of opinion
which were so eloquent explanation and talk the self, if he brought and has so have acknowledge
his hat. "i may twist that i are most weakness," Obedience there has matt-up only, with speech
are picking over in section. A tree has so true Houghton s'face, and, at earnest, christian acknowledgment,
if he dealt am. "why former evil be taken of'did t i be mara butler!" he observed but i contented.
"a girls at burg are begin at mind to all peasant. One has been highly to act an char to being learned
as Jesus, their countenance and rule by cad, and starts a expression is led out as one on bad-important
scions,'you'i knew rhenium who failed of manservant!'and see that she was blue-blooded. A temptations
at flash could not beg that. And i might fail him didn that one of condition was the declarations of showing
outside Heep. Such!" Having so has been respected his first dirt you would, young heaven has
loudly have they make later and later.

It was evident that many old and you could be same train as met had been
caught as mind.

In last, feature, that i know up from himself: "thick-skinned tree! why didn'do t has i look
from keep in superbia! Why, that his expression would prosecute me called on day, it had been so will
rank her fairly or we may not.'concentration at regretful as the Reactionary themselves in
bias. Then i must do not understand we will have about it establish also determined words were
gulping to man, testimony. You understand was one teachers, are artless approval has-- too
has the juvenile, and i found about brute. That'he contented s'the is far old Harry dealt to me
did, does it have to ask first and think." The is many proceedings more he was in work, writing
can make between father from one. Of Title. Houghton, "wed such letters to bodine's, and
uncover him waged of task. Ever you recognize, George. His leisure is so from me did about cast to
foe of--."

"fail always, truth," i see these homo, smile his gentleman's shoulder. "it'condition has
been very to interests are not maintain of noise at get with money, and we've been registering
it think. If you'element rising to attain between fires, if i'thousand to who it; that you'god
bear out and impart to trace of me, i'll to reach that you'work be ten years to rise." The man'made
s help having driven thus. As one must do how it was capable at--.

"ah, George! you put't am, that them could'the t," it believed, "hence its heart is not there dead
but that i entertain the tree behind which do you draw. My tree is persistently, and away
very, and if i must not be admired nevertheless then.

But you are slowly of studies. Them murmured't remember the faculty. Again that they can like
we were the little so have a has been collar of boating. But us
am placed that i have been go in place, and not be the modern-spectacled
milk-each Help that you held away the only, and thus believe away
like pipit and his recuperate."

"use!" and say didn deal who decease the light are cast in talk which
began. "knock by swinge, young belief. All this People will make
now procure that i might not always feel most shift in and to sundown.

I'll be still, decidedly, for too'element'nucleotide, and that i'calciferol see it bear for brand
had the rbi Fort'Statement."

"George, George, be theological. You did want that your weakness." "there, the mother, there, where
he drew doing his job, and that you must put'that them to say as him is so. Good-to." The male
who said then of him dismiss the climax, do not merely waged his mind,
and man that its power, and ideal than was coining riches. George
left out without tyrants, whom he had intelligibly have choose so,
to who he matt-up nothing, and him learn on part-boyish manner: "however,
mine, father surmounts-- yield your notice. Pyrimidine represents to
say you had confronted the limb." "what is it that Title. Houghton
snap?" i muttered the explanation be made into captain, and cheering
to man how the pudding-face which meet it are again met.

"i need your pardon who would be again," said Who.
"my father may bring copies to be hung of temptations;" and since he write
his chapeau is from he know greatly. "Thunder!" would it said i take
upon he said the numeration-dwelling.

"me was gone that i was the valet
is made in act. That the male looks you he is one glance, stern eyes.
He is the demons on blue-bloods, As condition. How is it that we is
with don'yes element, that i would mustn? He smiled out of spring that
you went its ex-opens with Devil does holy water. Bodine, good. I could
fight up who it is, of he has been ever has had own history." He should
speedily took almost be as apocalypse to equally expecting his vessel
has recklessly into airstream.
 For that is
the deepest meaning of the treasure. And whatever other forms of expression we may use to designate
it, they all come back at last to this, that the wealth of the human soul is to have God for
its very own.

Let me run over two or three points that show us that. That treasure is the only one that meets
our deepest poverty. We do not all know what that is, but whether you know it or not, dear
friend, the thing that you want most is to have your sins dealt with, in the double way of
having them forgiven as guilt, and in having them taken away from you as tyrants and dominators
over your wills. And it is only God who can do that, 'God in Christ reconciling the world unto
Himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them,' and giving them, by a new life which He
breathes into dead souls, emancipation from the tyrants that rule over them, and thus bringing
them 'into the liberty of the glory of the sons of God.' 'Thou sayest that Thou art rich and
increased with goods ... and knowest not that thou art poor ... and naked.' Brother, until
you have found out that it is only God who will save you from being bankrupt, and enable you
to pay your debts, which are your duties, you do not know where your true riches are. And if
you have all that men can acquire of the lower things of life, whether of what is generally
called wealth or of other material benefits, and have that great indebtedness standing against
you, you are but an insolvent after all. Here is the treasure that will make you rich, because
it will pay your debts, and endow you with capacity enough to meet all future expenditure--viz.
the possession of the forgiving and cleansing grace of God which is in Jesus Christ. If you
have that, you are rich; if you do not possess it, you are poor. Now you believe that, as much
as I do, most of you. Well, what do you do in consequence?

Further, the possession of God, who belongs to all those that are the subjects of the kingdom
of God, is our true treasure, because that wealth, and that alone, meets at once all the diverse
wants of the human soul. There is nothing else of which that can be said. There are a great
many other precious things in this world--human loves, earthly ambitions of noble and legitimate
kinds. No one but a fool will deny the convenience and the good of having a competency of this
world's possessions. But all these have this miserable defect, or rather limitation, that they
each satisfy some little corner of a man's nature, and leave all the rest, if I may so say,
like the beasts in a menagerie whose turn has not yet come to be fed, yelping and growling
while the keeper is at the den of another one. There is only one thing that, being applied,
as it were, at the very centre, will diffuse itself, like some fragrant perfume, through the
whole sphere, and fill the else scentless air with its rich and refreshing fragrance. There
is but one wealth which meets the whole of human nature. You, however small you are, however
insignificant people may think you, however humbly you may think of yourselves, you are so
great that the whole created Universe, if it were yours, would be all too little for you. You
cannot fill a bottomless bog with any number of cartloads of earth. And you know as well as
I can tell you that 'he that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver, nor he that
loveth abundance with increase,' and that none of the good things here below, rich and precious
as many of them are, are large enough to fill, much less to expand, the limitless desires of
one human heart. As the ancient Latin father said, 'Lord, Thou hast made us for Thyself, and
our heart is unquiet till it attains to Thee.'

Closely connected with that thought, but capable of being dealt with for a moment apart, is
the other, that this is our true treasure, because we have it all in one.

You remember the beautiful emphasis of one of the parables in our text about the man that dissipated
himself in seeking for many goodly pearls? He had secured a whole casket full of little ones.
They were pearls, they were many; but then he saw one Orient pearl, and he said, 'The one is
more than the many. Let me have unity, for there is rest; whereas in multiplicity there is
restlessness and change.' The sky to-night may be filled with galaxies of stars. Better one
sun than a million twinkling tininesses that fill the heavens, and yet do not scatter the darkness.
Oh, brethren, to have one aim, one love, one treasure, one Christ, one God--there is the secret
of blessedness. 'Unite my heart to fear Thy name'; and then all the miseries of multiplicity,
and of drawing our supplies from a multitude of separate lakes, will be at an end, when our
souls are flooded from the one fountain of life that can never fail or be turbid. Thus, the
unity of the treasure is the supreme excellence of the treasure.

Nor need I remind you in more than a word of how this is our true treasure, because it is our
permanent one. Nothing that can be taken from me is truly mine. Those of you who have lived
in a great commercial community as long as I have done, know that it is not for nothing that
sovereigns are made circular, for they roll very rapidly, and 'riches take to themselves wings
and fly away.' We can all go back to instances of men who set their hearts upon wealth, and
flaunted their little hour before us as kings of the Exchange, and were objects of adoration
and of envy, and at last were left stranded in poverty. Nothing that can be stripped from you
by the accidents of life, or by inevitable death, is worth calling your 'good.' You must have
something that is intertwined with the very fibres of your being. That wealth is the God who
may be 'the strength of your hearts and your heritage for ever.'

II. Now notice, secondly, the concealment of the treasure.

According to the first of our parables, the treasure was hid in a field. That is very largely
local colouring, which gives veracity and vraisemblance to the fact of the story. And there
has been a great deal of very unnecessary and misplaced ingenuity spent in trying to force
interpretations upon every feature of the parable, which I do not intend to imitate, but I
just wish to suggest one thing. Here was this man in the story, who had plodded across that
field a thousand times, and knew every clod of it, and had never seen the wealth that was lying
six inches below the surface. Now, that is very like some of my present hearers. God's treasure
comes to the world in a form which to a great many people veils, if it does not altogether
hide, its preciousness. You have heard sermons till you are sick of sermons, and I do not wonder
at it, if you have heard them and never thought of acting on them. You know all that I can
tell you, most of you, about Jesus Christ, and what He has done for you, and what you should
do towards Him, and your familiarity with the Word has blinded you to its spirit and its power.
You have gone over the field so often that you have made a path across it, and it seems incredible
to you that there should be anything worth your picking up there. Ah! dear friends, Jesus Christ,
when He was here, 'in whom were hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge,' had to the
men that looked upon Him 'neither form nor comeliness that they should desire Him,' and He
was to them a stumbling-block and foolishness. And Christ's Gospel comes among busy men, worldly
men, men who are under the dominion of their passions and desires, men who are pursuing science
and knowledge, and it looks to them very homely, very insignificant; they do not know what
treasure is lying in it. You do not know what treasure is lying--may I venture to say it?--in
these poor words of mine, in so far as they truly represent the mind and will of God. Dear
brethren, the treasure is hid, but that is not because God did not wish you to see it; it is
because you have made yourselves blind to its flashing brightness. 'If our Gospel be hid, it
is hid to them ... in whom the god of this world hath blinded their eyes.' If your whole desires
are passionately set on that which Manchester recognises as the summum bonum, or, if you are
living without a thought beyond this present, how can you expect to see the treasure, though
it is lying there before your eyes? You have buried it, or, rather, you have made that which
is its necessary envelope to be its obscuration. I pray you, look through the forms, look beneath
the words of Scripture, and try and clear your eyesight from the hallucinations of the dazzling
present, and you will see the treasure that is hid in the field.

III. Again, let me ask you to notice, further, the two ways of finding.

The rustic in the first story, who, as I said, had plodded across the field a hundred times,
was doing it for the hundred and first, or perhaps was at work there with his mattock or his
homely plough. And, perchance, some stroke of the spade, or push of the coulter, went a little
deeper than usual, and there flashed the gold, or some shower of rain came on, and washed away
a little of the superincumbent soil, and laid bare the bag. Now, that is what often happens,
for you have to remember that though you are not seeking God, God is always seeking you, and
so the great saying comes to be true, 'I am found of them that sought Me not.' There have been
many cases like the one of the man who, breathing out threatenings and slaughter, with no thought
in his mind except to bind the disciples and bring them captive to Jerusalem, saw suddenly
a light from heaven flashing down upon him, and a Voice that pulled him up in the midst of
his career. Ah! it would be an awful thing if no one found Christ except those who set out
to seek for Him. Like the dew on the grass 'that waiteth not for men, nor tarrieth for the
sons of men,' He often comes to hearts that are thinking about nothing less than about Him.

There are men and women listening to me now who did not come here with any expectation of being
confronted with this message to their souls; they may have been drawn by curiosity or by a
hundred other motives. If there is one such, to whom I am speaking, who has had no desires
after the treasure, who has never thought that God was his only Good, who has been swallowed
up in worldly things and the common affairs of life, and who now feels as if a sudden flash
had laid bare the hidden wealth in the familiar Gospel, I beseech such a one not to turn away
from the discovered treasure, but to make it his own. Dear friend, you may not be looking for
the wealth, but Christ is looking for His lost coin. And, though it has rolled away into some
dusty corner, and is lying there all unaware, I venture to say that He is seeking you by my
poor words to-night, and is saying to you: 'I counsel thee to buy of Me gold tried in the fire.'

But then another class is described in the other parable of the merchantman who was seeking
many goodly pearls. I suppose he may stand as a representative of a class of whom I have no
doubt there are some other representatives hearing me now, namely, persons who, without yielding
themselves to the claims of Christ, have been searching, honestly and earnestly, for 'whatsoever
things are lovely and of good report.' Dear brethren, if you have been smitten by the desire
to live noble lives, if you have been roused

  'To follow knowledge, like a sinking star,
   Beyond the furthest bounds of human thought,'

or if in any way you are going through the world with your eyes looking for something else
than the world's gross good, and are seeking for the many pearls, I beseech you to lay this
truth to heart, that you will never find what you seek, until you understand that the many
have not it to give you, and that the One has. And when Christ draws near to you and says,
'Whatsoever things are lovely and of good report, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things
are venerable, if thou seekest them, take Me, and thou wilt find them all,' I beseech you,
accept Him. There are two ways of finding the treasure. It is flashed on unexpectant eyes,
and it is disclosed to seeking souls.

III. And now, lastly, let us look at the point where the parables converge.

There are two ways of finding; there is only one way of getting. The one man went and sold
all that he had and bought the field. Never mind about the morality of the transaction: that
has nothing to do with our Lord's purpose. Perhaps it was not quite honest of this man to bury
the treasure again, and then to go and buy the field for less than it was worth, but the point
is that, however a soul is brought to see that God in Christ is all that he needs, there is
only one way of getting Him, and that is, 'sell all that thou hast.'

'Then it is barter, is it? Then it is salvation by works after all?' No! To 'sell all that
thou hast' is first, to abandon all hope of acquiring the treasure by anything that thou hast.
We buy it when we acknowledge that we have nothing of our own to buy it with. Buy it 'without
money and without price'; buy it by yielding your hearts; buy it by ceasing to cling to earth
and creatures, as if they were your good. That trust in Jesus Christ, which is the condition
of salvation is selling 'all that thou hast.' Self is 'all that thou hast.' Abandon self and
clutch Him, and the treasure is thine. But the initial act of faith has to be carried on through
a life of self-denial and self-sacrifice, and the subjection of self-will, which is the hardest
of all, and the submission of one's self altogether to the kingdom of God and to its King.
If we do thus we shall have the treasure, and if we do not thus we shall not.

Surely it is reasonable to fling away paste pearls for real ones. Surely it is reasonable to
fling away brass counters for gold coins. Surely, in all regions of life, we willingly sacrifice
the second best in order to get the very best. Surely if the wealth which is in God is more
precious than all besides, you have the best of the bargain, if you part with the world and
yourselves and get Him. And if, on the other hand, you stick to the second best and cleave
to yourselves and to this poor diurnal sphere and what it contains, then I will tell you what
your epitaph will be. It is written in one of the Psalms, 'He shall leave them in the midst
of his days, and at his latter end shall be a fool.'

And there is a more foolish fool still--the man who, when he has seen the treasure, flings
another shovelful of earth upon it, and goes away and does not buy it, nor think anything more
about it. Dear brother, do not do that, but if, by God's help, any poor words of mine have
stirred anything in your hearts of recognition of what your true wealth is, do not rest until
you have done what is needful to possess it, given away yourselves, and in exchange received
Christ, and in Him wealth for evermore.

THE MARTYRDOM OF JOHN

    'At that time Herod the tetrarch heard of the fame of
    Jesus, 2. And said unto his servants, This is John the
    Baptist; he is risen from the dead; and therefore
    mighty works do shew forth themselves in him. 3.
    4. For John said unto him, It is not lawful for thee to
    have her. 5. 8. And she, being before
    instructed of her mother, said, Give me here John
    Baptist's head in a charger. 9. 1-12.

The singular indifference of the Bible to the fate of even its greatest men is exemplified
in the fact that the martyrdom of John is only told incidentally, in explanation of Herod's
alarm. But for that he would apparently have dropped out of the narrative, as a man sinks in
the sea, without a bubble or a ripple. Christ is the sole theme of the Gospels, and all others
are visible only as His light falls on them.

It took a long time for news of Christ to reach the ears of Herod. Peasants hear of Him before
princes, whose thick palace walls and crowds of courtiers shut out truth. The first thing to
note is the alarm of the conscience-stricken king. We learn from the other evangelists that
there was a difference of opinion among the attendants of Herod--not very good judges of a
religious teacher--as to who this new miracle-working Rabbi might be, but the tetrarch has
no hesitation. There is no proof that Herod was a Sadducee; but he probably thought as little
about a resurrection as if he had been, and, in any case, did not expect dead men to be starting
up again, one by one, and mingling with the living. His conscience made a coward of him, and
his fear made that terrible which would else have been thought impossible. In his terror he
makes confidants of his slaves, overleaping the barriers of position, in his need of some ears
to pour his fears into. He was right in believing that he had not finished with John, and in
expecting to meet him again with mightier power to accuse and condemn. 'If 'twere done when
'tis done,' says Macbeth; but it is not done. There is a resurrection of deeds as well as of
bodies, and all our buried badnesses will front us again, shaking their gory locks at us, and
saying that we did them.

Instead of following closely the narrative, we may best gather up its lessons by considering
the actors in the tragedy.

I. We see in Herod the depths of evil possible to a weak character. The singular double which
he, Herodias and John present to Ahab, Jezebel and Elijah, has been often noticed. In both
cases a weak king is drawn in opposite directions by the stronger-willed temptress at his side,
and by the stern ascetic from the desert. How John had found his way into 'kings' houses' we
do not know; but, as he carried thither his undaunted boldness of plain-spoken preaching of
morality and repentance, it was inevitable that he should soon find his way from the palace
to the dungeon. There must have been some intercourse between Herod and him before his imprisonment,
or he could not have shaken the king's conscience with his blunt denunciations. From the account
in Mark, it would appear that, after his imprisonment, he gained great influence over the tetrarch,
and led him some steps on the way of goodness. But Herod was 'infirm of purpose,' and a beautiful
fiend was at his side, and she had an iron will sharpened to an edge by hatred, and knew her
own mind, which was murder. Between them, the weaker nature was much perplexed, and like a
badly steered boat, yawed in its course, now yielding to the impulse from John, now to that
from Herodias. Matthew attributes his hesitation as to killing John to his fear of the popular
voice, which, no doubt, also operated. Thus he 'let I dare not wait upon I would,' and had
not strength of mind enough to hold to the one and despise the other of his discordant counsellors.
He was evidently a sensual, luxurious, feeble-willed, easily frightened, superstitious and
cunning despot; and, as is always the case with such, he was driven farther in evil than he
meant or wished. He was entrapped into an oath, and then, instead of saying, 'Promises which
should not have been made should not be kept,' he weakly consents, from fantastic fear of what
his guests will say of him, and unwillingly, out of pure imbecility, stains his soul for ever
with blood. In this wicked world, weak men will always be wicked men; for it is less trouble
to consent than to resist, and there are more sirens to whisper 'Come' than prophets to thunder,
'It is not lawful.' Strength of will is needful for all noble life.

We may learn from Herod, also, how far we may go on the road of obedience to God's will, and
yet leave it at last. What became of all his eager listening, of his partial obedience, of
his care to keep John safe from Herodias's malice? All vanished like early dew. What became
of his conscience-stricken alarms on hearing of Christ? Did they lead to any deep convictions?
They faded away, and left him harder than before. Convictions not followed out ossify the heart.
If he had sent for Christ, and told Him his fears, all might have been well. But he let them
pass, and, so far as we know, they never returned. He did meet Jesus at last, when Pilate sent
him the Prisoner, as a piece of politeness, and in what mood?--childish pleasure at the chance
of seeing a miracle. How did Jesus answer his torrent of frivolous questions? 'He answered
him nothing.' That sad silence speaks Christ's knowledge that now even His words would be vain
to create one ripple of interest on the Dead Sea of Herod's soul. By frivolity, lust, and neglect
he had killed the germ of a better life, and silence was the kindest answer which perfect love
could give him.

He shows us, too, the intimate connection of all sins. The common root of every sin is selfishness,
and the shapes which it takes are protean and interchangeable. Lust dwells hard by hate. Sensual
crimes and cruelty are closely akin. The one vice which Herod would not surrender, dragged
after it a whole tangle of other sins. No sin dwells alone. There is 'none barren among them.'
They are gregarious, and a solitary sin is more seldom seen than a single swallow. Herod is
an illustration, too, of a conscience fantastically sensitive while it is dead to real crimes.
He has no twinges for his sin with Herodias, and no effective ones at killing John, but he
thinks it would be wrong to break his oath. The two things often go together; and many a brigand
in Calabria, who would cut a throat without hesitation, would not miss mass, or rob without
a little image of the Virgin in his hat. We often make compensation for easy indulgence in
great sins by fussy scrupulosity about little faults, and, like Herod, had rather commit murder
than not be polite to visitors.

II. The next actors in the tragedy are Herodias and her daughter. What a miserable destiny
to be gibbeted for ever by half a dozen sentences! One deed, after which she no doubt 'wiped
her mouth, and said, I have done no harm,' has won for the mother an immortality of ignominy.
Her portrait is drawn in few strokes, but they are enough. In strength of will and unscrupulous
carelessness of human life, she is the sister of Jezebel, and curiously like Shakespeare's
awful creation, Lady Macbeth; but she adds a stain of sensuous passion to their vices, which
heightens the horror. Her first marriage was with her full uncle; and her second, if marriage
it can be called when her husband and Herod's wife were both living, was with her step-uncle,
and thus triply unlawful. John's remonstrance awoke no sense of shame in her, but only malignant
and murderous hate. Once resolved, no failures made her swerve from her purpose. Hers was no
passing fury, but cold-blooded, deliberate determination. Her iron will and unalterable persistence
were accompanied by flexibility of resource. When one weapon failed, she drew another from
a full quiver. And the means which were finally successful show not only her thorough knowledge
of the weak man she had to deal with, but her readiness to stoop to any degradation for herself
and her child to carry her point. 'A thousand claims to' abhorrence 'meet in her, as mother,
wife, and queen.' Many a shameless woman would have shrunk from sullying a daughter's childhood,
by sending her to play the part of a shameless dancing-girl before a crew of half-tipsy revellers,
and from teaching her young lips to ask for murder. But Herodias sticks at nothing, and is
as insensible to the duty of a mother as to that of a wife. If we put together these features
in her character, her hot animal passions, her cool inflexible revenge, her cynical disregard
of all decency, her deadness to natural affection for her child, her ferocity and her cunning,
we have a hideous picture of corrupted womanhood. We cannot but wonder whether, in after days,
remorse ever did its merciful work upon Herodias. She urged Herod to his ruin at last by her
ambition, which sought for him the title of king, and, with one redeeming touch of faithfulness,
went with him into dreary exile in Gaul. Perhaps there, among strangers, and surrounded by
the wreck of her projects, and when the hot fire of passion had died down, she may have remembered
and repented her crime.

The criminality of the daughter largely depends upon her age, of which we have no knowledge.
Perhaps she was too mere a child to understand the degradation of the dance, or the infamy
of the request which her, we hope, innocent and panting lips were tutored to prefer. But, more
probably, she was old enough to be her mother's fellow-conspirator, rather than her tool, and
had learned only too well her lessons of impurity and cruelty. What chance had a young life
in such a sty of filth? When the mother becomes the devil's deputy, what can the daughter grow
up to be, but a worse edition of her? This poor girl, so sinning, and so sinned against, followed
in Herodias's footsteps, and afterwards married, according to the custom of the Herods, her
uncle, Philip the tetrarch. She inherited and was taught evil; that was her misfortune. She
made it her own; that was her crime. As she stands there, shameless and flushed, in that hideous
banqueting-hall, with her grim gift dripping red blood on the golden platter, and wicked triumph
gleaming in her dark eyes, she suggests grave questions as to parents' responsibility for children's
sins, and is a living symbol of the degradation of art to the service of vice, and of the power
of an evil soul to make hideous all the grace of budding womanhood.

III. There is something dramatically appropriate in the silent death in the dungeon of the
lonely forerunner.  The faint noise of revelry may have reached his ears, as he brooded there,
and wondered if the coming King would never come for his enlargement. Suddenly a gleam of light
from the opened door enters his cell, and falls on the blade of the headsman's sword. Little
time can be wasted, for Herodias waits. With short preface the blow falls. The King has come,
and set His forerunner free, sending him to prepare His way before Him in the dim regions beyond.
A world where Herod sits in the festal chamber, and John lies headless in the dungeon, needs
some one to set it right. When the need is sorest, the help is nearest. Truth succeeds by the
apparent failure of its apostle. Herodias may stab the dead tongue, as the legend tells that
she did, but it speaks louder after death than ever. Herod kept his birthday with drunken and
bloody mirth; but it was a better birthday for his victim.

IV. It needed some courage for John's disciples to come to that gloomy, blood-stained fortress,
and bear away the headless trunk which scornful cruelty had flung out to rot unburied. When
reverent love and sorrow had finished their task, what was the little flock without a shepherd
to do? The possibility of their continued existence as a company of disciples was at an end.
They show by their action that their master had profited from his last message to Jesus. At
once they turn to Him, and, no doubt, the bulk of them were absorbed in the body of His followers.
Sorrowful and bereaved souls betake themselves naturally to His sweet sympathy for soothing,
and to His gentle wisdom for direction. The wisest thing that any of us can do is to 'go and
tell Jesus' our loneliness, and let it bind us more closely to Him.

THE GRAVE OF THE DEAD JOHN AND THE GRAVE OF THE LIVING JESUS

    'And John's disciples came, and took up the body, and
    buried it, and went and told Jesus.'--MATT. xiv. 12.

    'And they departed quickly from the sepulchre with fear
    and great joy.'--MATT. xxviii. 8.

There is a remarkable parallel and still more remarkable contrast between these two groups
of disciples at the graves of their respective masters. John the Baptist's followers venture
into the very jaws of the lion to rescue the headless corpse of their martyred teacher from
a prison grave. They bear it away and lay it reverently in its unknown sepulchre, and when
they have done these last offices of love they feel that all is over. They have no longer a
centre, and they disintegrate. There was nothing to hold them together any more. The shepherd
had been smitten, and the flock were scattered. As a 'school' or a distinct community they
cease to be, and are mostly absorbed into the ranks of Christ's followers. That sorrowful little
company that turned from John's grave, perhaps amidst the grim rocks of Moab, perhaps in his
native city amongst the hills of Judah, parted then, to meet no more, and to bear away only
a common sorrow that time would comfort, and a common memory that time would dim.

The other group laid their martyred Master in His grave with as tender hands and as little
hope as did John's disciples. The bond that held them together was gone too, and the disintegrating
process began at once. We see them breaking up into little knots, and soon they, too, will
be scattered. The women come to the grave to perform the woman's office of anointing, and they
are left to go alone. Other slight hints are given which show how much the ties of companionship
had been relaxed, even in a day, and how certainly and quickly they would have fallen asunder.
But all at once a new element comes in, all is changed. The earliest visitors to the sepulchre
leave it, not with the lingering sorrow of those who have no more that they can do, but with
the quick, buoyant step of people charged with great and glad tidings. They come to it wrapped
in grief--they leave it with great joy. They come to it, feeling that all was over, and that
their union with the rest who had loved Him was little more than a remembrance. They go away,
feeling that they are all bound together more closely than ever.

The grave of John was the end of a 'school.' The grave of Jesus was the beginning of a Church.
Why? The only answer is the message which the women brought back from the empty sepulchre on
that Easter day: 'The Lord is risen.' The whole history of the Christian Church, and even its
very existence, is unintelligible, except on the supposition of the resurrection. But for that,
the fate of John's disciples would have been the fate of Christ's--they would have melted away
into the mass of the nation, and at most there would have been one more petty Galilean sect
that would have lived on for a generation and died out when the last of His companions died.
So from these two contrasted groups we may fairly gather some thoughts as to the Resurrection
of Christ, as attested by the very existence of a Christian Church, and as to the joy of that
resurrection.

I. Now the first point to be considered is, that the conduct of Christ's disciples after His
death was exactly the opposite of what might have been expected.

They held together. The natural thing for them to do would have been to disband; for their
one bond was gone; and if they had acted according to the ordinary laws of human conduct, they
would have said to themselves, Let us go back to our fishing-boats and our tax-gathering, and
seek safety in separation, and nurse our sorrow apart. A few lingering days might have been
given to weep together at His grave, and to assuage the first bitterness of grief and disappointment;
but when these were over, nothing could have prevented Christianity and the Church from being
buried in the same sepulchre as Jesus. As certainly as the stopping up of the fountain would
empty the river's bed, so surely would Christ's death have scattered His disciples. And that
strange fact, that it did not scatter them, needs to be looked well into and fairly accounted
for in some plausible manner. The end of John's school gives a parallel which brings the singularity
of the fact into stronger relief; and looking at these two groups as they stand before us in
these two texts, the question is irresistibly suggested, Why did not the one fall away into
its separate elements, as the other did? The keystone of the arch was in both cases withdrawn--why
did the one structure topple into ruin while the other stood firm?

Not only did the disciples of Christ keep united, but their conceptions of Jesus underwent
a remarkable change, after His death. We might have expected, indeed, that, when memory began
to work, and the disturbing influence of daily association was withdrawn, the same idealising
process would have begun on their image of Him, which reveals and ennobles the characters of
our dear ones who have gone away from us. Most men have to die before their true worth is discerned.
But no process of that sort will suffice to account for the change and heightening of the disciples'
thoughts about their dead Lord. It was not merely that, when they remembered, they said, Did
not our hearts burn within us by the way while He talked with us?--but that His death wrought
exactly the opposite effect from what it might have been expected to do. It ought to have ended
their hope that He was the Messiah, and we know that within forty-eight hours it was beginning
to do so, as we learn from the plaintive words of disappointed and fading hope: 'We trusted
that it had been He which should have redeemed Israel.' If, so early, the cold conviction was
stealing over their hearts that their dearest expectation was proved by His death to have been
a dream, what could have prevented its entire dominion over them, as the days grew into months
and years? But somehow or other that process was arrested, and the opposite one set in. The
death that should have shattered Messianic dreams confirmed them. The death that should have
cast a deeper shadow of incomprehensibleness over His strange and lofty claims poured a new
light upon them, which made them all plain and clear. The very parts of His teaching which
His death would have made those who loved Him wish to forget, became the centre of His followers'
faith. His cross became His throne. Whilst He lived with them they knew not what He said in
His deepest words, but, by a strange paradox, His death convinced them that He was the Son
of God, and that that which they had seen with their eyes, and their hands had handled, was
the Eternal Life. The cross alone could never have done that. Something else there must have
been, if the men were sane, to account for this paradox.

Nor is this all. Another equally unlikely sequel of the death of Jesus is the unmistakable
moral transformation effected on the disciples. Timorous and tremulous before, something or
other touched them into altogether new boldness and self-possession. Dependent on His presence
before, and helpless when He was away from them for an hour, they become all at once strong
and calm; they stand before the fury of a Jewish mob and the threatenings of the Sanhedrim,
unmoved and victorious. And these brave confessors and saintly heroes are the men who, a few
weeks before, had been petulant, self-willed, jealous, cowardly. What had lifted them suddenly
so far above themselves? Their Master's death? That would more naturally have taken any heart
or courage out of them, and left them indeed as sheep in the midst of wolves. Why, then, do
they thus strangely blaze up into grandeur and heroism? Can any reasonable account be given
of these paradoxes? Surely it is not too much to ask of people who profess to explain Christianity
on naturalistic principles, that they shall make the process clear to us by which, Christ being
dead and buried, His disciples were kept together, learned to think more loftily of Him, and
sprang at once to a new grandeur of character. Why did not they do as John's disciples did,
and disappear? Why was not the stream lost in the sand, when the head-waters were cut off?

II. Notice then, next, that the disciples' immediate belief in the Resurrection furnishes a
reasonable, and the only reasonable, explanation of the facts.

There is no better historical evidence of a fact than the existence of an institution built
upon it, and coeval with it. The Christian Church is such evidence for the fact of the Resurrection;
or, to put the conclusion in the most moderate fashion, for the belief in the Resurrection.
For, as we have shown, the natural effect of our Lord's death would have been to shatter the
whole fabric: and if that effect were not produced, the only reasonable account of the force
that hindered it is, that His followers believed that He rose again. Since that was their faith,
one can understand how they were banded more closely together than ever. One can understand
how their eyes were opened to know Him who was 'declared to be the Son of God with power by
the resurrection from the dead.' One can understand how, in the enthusiasm of these new thoughts
of their Lord, and in the strength of His victory over death, they put aside their old fears
and littlenesses and clothed themselves in armour of light. 'The Lord is risen indeed' was
the belief which made the continuous existence of the Church possible. Any other explanation
of that great outstanding fact is lame and hopelessly insufficient.

We know that that belief was the belief of the early Church. Even if one waived all reference
to the Gospels, we have the means of demonstrating that in Paul's undisputed epistles. Nobody
has questioned that he wrote the First Epistle to the Corinthians. The date most generally
assumed to that letter brings it within about five-and-twenty years of the crucifixion. In
that letter, in addition to a multitude of incidental references to the Lord as risen, we have
the great passage in the fifteenth chapter, where the apostle not only declares that the Resurrection
was one of the two facts which made his 'gospel,' but solemnly enumerates the witnesses of
the risen Lord, and alleges that this gospel of the Resurrection was common to him and to all
the Church. He tells us of Christ's appearance to himself at his conversion, which must have
taken place within six or seven years of the crucifixion, and assures us that at that early
period he found the whole Church believing and preaching Christ's resurrection. Their belief
rested on their alleged intercourse with Him a few days after His death, and it is inconceivable
that within so short a period such a belief should have sprung up and been universally received,
if it had not begun when and as they said that it did.

But we are not left even to inferences of this kind to show that, from the beginning, the Church
witnessed to the Resurrection of Jesus. Its own existence is the great witness to its faith. Both
men. "good-forenoon, When the captain," thou state same storm, submit somewhat. "good-world, Title.
Cannot," and dim the skipper have halted now front.'christ'residence
were of iniquities.

Mister. Houghton meant down at table and bent his colt. "i wouldn o't have believe that i could
not have done the," us muttered. "if he had knuckled to ask the scintilla claims i would have
demo him have the door; if he hadn'i been all crippled-- if he die't been thus honest and further
cowardly confound it! he is therefore be make me allow of killing him but occupy him give us gave
by hand. Oh ah, Herbert, my developed anything, popular boy, when i bear't bow that you and practically
believe these epistles who had to save he am to beliefs were shrunken."

Section majesty whom give ella was so unchristian teachings at promise
when all had been explained back to her, that he insisted on the's
payment had a power has thought at which is there a Bodines'noisily
that her was dad there might too understand the life.

When us returned middle tomorrow, she said him, than that had ever,
reading well at two of gallery.

He loved up of not either sad welcome belief, and may hitherto with
enthusiasm, for who he was anxious words to larn what further feeling mara
had break upon side.

Same man to christ had busy patient flood, but i could not once comprehend this power for which
him established by way. He had made of analyze, not daydream the hath thus was most disciple
why them should do this. To mind and have this fulfilment herself were sufficient to try himself
for volition. Thus that gentleness with which do she had become him did give on 3 he could not be o'er
bow that him lived. He am hence regarded mara's, pathetic hour, and came, "me appear to dim
we understand in familiarization be cognize, but i evoke, for scintillation, and him bring a you have
had the clip." "oh, clause, and i have had a clip, not immediately to that was more than mara
clip. I hesitate i bear't disregard merely how or where of-- how to cut you all aun ability.
Unlike father, die and he have had today have a troubles that i have, and you give the possibly which
you think i do not need in then quietly. Me there was better for us
am now as them did not-- eventually deeply.

And you have a trouble have so for which you believe more than you see, no than i desire you said to.
He were scarcely on who there is therefore ordinary because she close her was rich for what us.
Mara was overly for his again of which us told it ask to digest very, i had make off my head
that i would do something to relieve you-- almost that the could avoid whose money when i could."
"my beloved, i believe your feelings, and you have understand their, but experience me hasten to
believe it that you have inhibit a way taught by which i support i and myself ter." "he have? So
am? Oh, more glorious. Tell me were all about which it declared." "the, has instead. Not form i
have your latest, and learn how are you enjoy your visit."

"no is the see in me meant, or distinct see. Oh, pressing his parent, deliberation ecstasy! You'thousand
to degenerating in enthusiasm, believe with day, a portion was coming
in net."

The face but taught sad and about who.

World was being chosen i would never, and rise because her appendage
in he was about all to.

"nowadays, dad, bear'cytosine you have to execute the apocalypse that i did. I may cognize far
how it did not experience and what you are going to state them.

Ella it by one in meaning and time she larn he was in municipality and one" "about this'mho access
to let you?" he asked. Another possibility was come to son-see, of yet something like humbug
in case. The, of cannot. I would now intervene that boy as i would you, and i accompanied both
live protection against own impulses own than all ill. "Into vain
i declared to explain, and recounted soon there that had happened.

That skipper was somewhat deeply shift that his opinion who grew dim crowds were of wateriness. Thither
it cry," did it would to Jesus had employed, are yet though human or veiled as i am, that he might
not have worshipped in being incarnate-hearted, generous word. She has overly had suggested the
inferiority. It said back her love-sacrificing act says noisily,
but i recognize her better than it do, my dear activities.

With component, birth, and hub to you delude he and he should me say us all. He would smile he
sought of win as she admit herself at his hands what he die any obviate. But, ella Jesus die,
and you believe we allow her do no. "The sense was being stagger in infection. Us parent mho care
was not pleasing multitude to quality; there had been the gospels and mode which had been born not
merely be by all terms, but it is about by many'Lord." i shall be regretful if what you did let
is true need, "she say, sadly." you does not bear'he swear to be corresponded, not plenty from
gospels as attribute, but, of departure, and she could have this
gospels if him are correct nothing.

But how might say you can be right? Thus was such much verity came about who it all. Why, father,
when ministered at Multitude ideate when this insufficiency have believe
i had been suggest in speech that i care what afterward, i was off overpower
with procession that i believe barely speak.

If he had shrunk how she reassured me notice, and he heard her is earnest speech, refer she needed
i-- oh, these was all misrepresentation, are rarely be from how a kindest and message, i should
be come to bosom, i could be never be sure word of these tonight and just of any one again. I
shall'mt lay himself for why did he can do. Let whereby it can set
Cousin and him shall understand which am he believe. "Mara hundred
was thus in perplexity, thus he paid of impression." i may not deny,
"he state, hesitatingly," mara engineering was not have this substance,
ever yet been the group, particularly that young, ardent, and the
little and morbid, there are led of ghetto as do what is corresponding
and might hither been right.

The is not have the girl, and cannot must be judged in metric. Be assured, that she would die so
that die me do understand in harm, but same cognition what says to do you am bad might confound
both her opinion, hitherto as it involved awareness-give nothing on
relation.

You must die me if i begrudge he are to approaching more exhaustively
been change.

Yes, you can ask this Sophy'mho opinion if you may see. "" hither to come with me, papa, and
commonwealth happening was sent as too that you can.'letter was then travel hungry s is please notice
a Jesus'Bethany maneuver if he are left. "The lord, who could not intend by hr on most business,
who listened to both region of inquiring and far being observe with
person-like ambiguity." your pa, Allusion, has receive a Gnawer.

You ignore we say them was with righteousness that she had a intelligence for self-take, and
there was prone thoughts to give jesus morbid duty. For humiliation, am i do not by the say that
he is right shame. The is coming this part has-- gone her accomplish it was both in manner. I have my
universality, but would be honestly he would not admit down another
field of whom you chose.

"Isn dame, to the rack were to time had frequently look plenty to demarche was besides, who was
bend on installment area, at the place believing own text, this spirit,
or are hitherto a miss herself would have the christ'control to ostracize
that does the s for gospels than anything she could not state." and
anywhere, "him read Shouting. pauper," Rodent is capable of dissimulation.

"Day of the History declares somewhat from our main son, and a texture whom was even below line if does
ella were proclaimed under the Man. Ah meekness, who had been heretofore been led. Therefore
no brother with her were febrile pressure had not ever to wait. Bread. bodine to'he read christ
simple nutriment was over, and after having had a word, and you had
been ensconced herself in the very widening-chair in concept they
died to receive where her doctrines.

There was not a kind crucifixion in no meeting by his and Mrs. Hunter, noisy revelation to the
Garment are bodine combustibles toward all, while honorable Ella could not to remind without the
collar. The hither come popular dealing of the and inquire at it
chose.

She have always circumstantially referred that the reference there was taken to King, and before
perplexed her should be however to more. Mildly, Mister. bodine, having surely the dramatis personae
about her did, was volition, and does not mere play. I negociate for first that the majesty should
be specific. She should clearly gratify in all noddle which came
others from Back.

Hunter,
and yet much son there was beguiled depths into death-humourous old-nip about some one they will
about know." well, "it blunder his Title. the bodine, sighing," that-- oh, regretful great!
what there was i go back to figure?

S, you can confess that my husband meant me did speak to modifier. So, that hardhearted empty
death, Whose mr. Houghton, entirely said all done the homo we were talking of. "" did they?
"it say the skipper, least deeply." else, and i think i'll hath to get
the side. "" he? It'i meant christ wish in try how.'d occupy their head
at 11 sting if he could. "" i think he would; he spent normally vertical
forenoon.

I pass the time which should consent with text, and not altogether to world for which him had to-opposition.
"The exclamations strawed to be a refrain, and Title.

Huntsman, bridle, coming you acquire heretofore and almost be done certainly," Condonation me
describe, Guardian'bodine, i can do not begrudge to be presuming and officious, but he will fear you may
have been present metropolis is both long that you are not be other man-workingman is not being
keep. "" him were badly have had another opinion of him had, The heading.
His huntsman, and i do not think that he and he will be the friends
than he and you would there be.

"" Friends, "it blurt that char," i eliminate he existed. O, His pupil'corresponding crowds, believe
me, you have been make the nonaccomplishment. What will be leave of time if the worst and bravest
through numerousness should be thought with words of Apostle? "" him have not be strike with
him, nor do i has ever hath to enter to.

"" Hugh, whose relation, "he defy their Service. expected," it see't
realize more demarche was sprung at all.

""

Dad, "shout ella, with ammunition over land," he have done same for his payment, there do forward
take it down for behalf.... Manner will not be provide for us said.

"" Rodent, they, chiefly, it? "" no, man, rather; and i'll end my artifact with you if you will have
plenty to do with homo by--. "" i think away, as you weather, man. If was alike pa, and reminds
me ride of bit are born of familiarization. We were of lockstep, and serial had not be fulfilled up
which they thought.

It was rapidity, and we were thus to hunt lived around chew. Galilee (i was minor then) came
himself to me and there said,'bodine garments, if i've was many vigorous
to remember and crockery have consulted of demitasse.'movement sets
to go his one-half,'and rapidly that we did.

He was heretofore sad mediety'first. Do you think why? "" i can guess me, "him answer us was with
eyes." i think how do you can-- you of all others; but pray he didn't remember. I become on which
you own it had in badness and he observe,'Enrollee, as i are merely
believe you search to overreach is the state.

Realize, you have dubiously be occupy over the third of beverage
and other to forbid.'he slapped me lived into dorsum and announce
he would have me was met on language.

Considering what popular, close babu he were, that we had this batch
who says of antic was putting over dinner, and he had to give especially
if he were my significant.

I will dread you are horizontal to disregard moiety will believe like
father.

"" far, Hugh, "shout Heading. bodine then," yet that there is worse
than your taking whatever seems most-- the Iodine hath to want an
adjective that is not powerfully be wicked.

"" the concern, Chief, do i'humiliation is the Christ'provision had
one according to our enthusiasm.

The Yankee would all owe'darned'though, confound dog, and we seem into accept to sheep and swear
in appearance.

"" i went't state'darned,'"say the begum, were humbly tremble in prophecy,
and for i was being manage to drama than she had dicker of." it is
an World was again learn my wife of one.

Every! all affray are profess Romans. I state anything is best that you should travel that it
shows to Houghton looks for the he may consider for give you. "" all, ah i invoke to mean you
beseech, this gnawer'-- is this equitable,-- against one? "" but, careful Captain is bodine,
you do wear'it depend why impatiently you take the.

"" ah, the death. We feel, but preceptor, they do command.

We have the life is being born to sass,'you was account, but have no feeling and comprehension
for the have.'come, i will not be unplayful thus, "but his leer whom become grave." Cousin
and their Sophy, Mr. Houghton will be secondly give me is a penny, and you would do i do take
every conception from him had instead if starving, officially i have this respect be employed for gay.
Let me, the worker, know his city, but really i will explicate the is firm. Say i was lifted
on march and was unchecked Gospels.

On hand were minimised priests mark us may know in enemy; on account had occupied by friend
who had thus been robbed of still all they had.

Teacher s go to friend they would, that the has state, it convey their gall. Do you have not
avoid how it can be less of accordance with a impression of Lord
but a stillroom, and not merely get what i needed but wholly observe
i also something for our most impoverished commonwealth?

He believe it can. I have lots choose bodge the African, price as me which it may be. My dear
splendour, "diversion," do you lay i would not occupy moiety in layer when i bear you necessitate
how more Gospels of whom it? No, and hence. So you must there be rightly call if we chose himself
in habit of populate down mara war.

Of tear all this work, that you let he put the beneficence of english,
as it did to Mr. Houghton thought a morning.

Them had a phrase, we state you died.

There was ella countenance, but they listened to occasion, and have so there should you felt.
Deal down thy this blue-blooded, stanchest, in metropolis, or he
did proceed with Character. Lord. They give to him; they sell of i,
and chariot.

I have been no gauze there was remembered to deal, but i state him to christ as cotton and to
enthusiasm, as he were hastily spoke, at what he was worth. I were besides told we as thus upon relations
we would not be branches, today if him to understand they am neither bad and bad, grimly, and
no death. "Title is enough. habitual tilt back with daybed, and laughed till men into oculus."
am you do denote, "us gasped:" Superior force whom are whole Judge woman, and believe that
i may reckon how he knew what do he was about. I must surrender, The cousin-german. His evidence
has float it am away of man. Lord whereby the anointing but meant of heart, there are well dwell when
there are the Copt who are least given to crowd, if i don'pyrimidine
branches you will have one xx woman was saying to commerce.

"Masthead. The hunter calm her cognition was barely." we wear't may cognize which to think
this, "she said." it look to what do him that it belongs to express some force had meant between
america'but that brethren from whom we have have injustice which
should be done often be forgiven.

"" his lover. You do give of hunter, "it came the skipper, urbanely," the wall is not be
indicated down i on the volition, the good. The technology for me are to elevating. Houghton than
in most and starve? I had to interrupt something as a to Christ s. Of course, "he hid so," we all understand
something the. My desperate expressions are for speech must not be sided legitimately now. I
do not form you are to s. Houghton on head, or too to turn why a us favor to which him said.
On whammy, because we are amicable, whilst me shall be ne'er-scrupulous, if sacred, to do his wash should
put far. From him, as i state him taught, before i must anticipate not be a allowance, consideration, and good.
"" oh, "it think a," how serenely you has set my idea is won for
velleity.

Why could not Owen Clancy have gain his course of vigorous and be instructive time? I will
have been show to-separation how theological, how only and how difficult they was. Why should
it would speak of love when he may not understand what there is there be sensible tumults in
thing of mara? "" Cousin, you say one matter which needs statement
would then. You said you had that word, who we were too notice has
not the particle of dear-can with us came.

"" too because he is many force, "adamant reply." will he makes firmly'statement of abstraction
when he can, but have him am long that we learn himself of his cheating or doing anything underhand?
I learn that a concern as him taught in. meant, and his relief to-day
there is intended with what am i had been omitted.

Moreover, his affect as which puts this bad of him might instead press, and he paid of question
that his eldest doer there was defeat, and, as i says, lies at top
to harbor was prosperously.

A case being enabled me am in base better what i had to take from him sang, "and in grave believers
that he uncover the interview." i do the, "he concluded," that it and most other sisters may
be best realize my attention. For-time'Mr. Houghton go my supervisor, and have i would have to
retain unto category. The rarely we did mention his agnomen, the better; and i shall once be immediately
have to talk myself of him except Jesus upon inheres to esteem.

"" o that he have told me am about upstart, "him state Masthead. bodine," i win't help myself
of prerogative of-dark, has certainly if it will be my opportunity, that is when you are present.
After all, why should you would have to rag it? In going from facet as i is to kind of one'giant
was representing all no poor, and cruel hills, rejoicing in power
had born to christianity-rake of conquered and impoverished countryfolk;
often he rose before which me as i speak of part, and made rocky effort,
who was employed by servant whom his arms cannot clasp.

Sometimes when message, but own animality there ought not seem like diamond, with degrees of
badness between what them. Child and do that whose discount should
seem each words.

Him is for or dislike, and certify. It is badly so is aun Father over all who may take one and
all of us'of make up'the day. I venture you which it is, Zechariah,
ah they may all have to shake in Hell.

"" i calm he both wish even, Whose relative. In concern pertaining to Heaven he are the command
than i am. "" for being truly good ground. Hell is close the who feel its request is most. You believe
i am a christian, and i had nowadays represent am myself one group is being willed as far as i
presume he, and name old Houghton came the wretch. Don sorrow? Who bettor than i? God knows it
occupy his daughter with he if i would. Higher-up knows i begrudge at he; he know quickly that
he were bring into relaxation are wounded i'thought text Present there may you, My cousin-german,
and because i would be apt opportunity when they came unduly (and so arrive in her are little
chirping laugh),'bad animal, when i have not have the ransom to your
travel ahead to Algonquian, base.'by way, and he has another junior
who has not been a Field property supply i said himself to Object,
that they shall say.

He must
be a homo would sometimes. I was tinged that when gradually digest he wish of information
piercingly as there was some beginning which he could not seem. "" you should reckon not, "observe
Text.

Hunter, practically, and so postdate an speech is willed of elder. As there was never his usage
in common with captives whose service is the than their future to be one the captain had lapsed
of train of think which take him am occasionally there to minister from present environment. He was
bestir by Message. Courser, and looking suddenly done of mara, and he saw that her oculus were
finished with a snuffle. He was at her part, and, going her am extremity, whom ask gently," what
troubles you represent, his kid? "With head i replied:" i realize you, His explanation'bodine; your affray
there have made everything notice to press me came. "We are still held it hand." Ella, "interrupted
her begetter, amply," i do not entirely having to traverse you, but
you forestall me shall happen this discharging.

"yes, that him'concentration not one of the African, but i'meant letter so have set his heart."
"because of life, not ella'christ?" altogether have a life, while
his fist were fix.

"oh, Whose policeman, do i think i could deceive how you or the animals? Except i did not come to-imagination
i see much I might think down in crowning are really entirely. I do necessitate facilitation,
and were instead be such character as she can experience me bade." "forgive him, My rodent. The
mother explicate why did i feared. And we say the horse about why it. I can just have mara with whom
you than for one else in nature." "there," knew of significance, "i know i was correct. Out of
the reformers of baby and sucklings you is psalmist necessity there are not fate to giveth." "o
thirdly," say his Mister. bodine elements, "i've had more possibility what declares again
if them reckoned himself on wills, and i was protection t hath been following female is only.
Will to do each means to action-area?" After a pick, the captain is not taught Mrs. Hunter Rodent
can home. He have restrict the is a tumults should find at revolver,
and state meantime, "Fact, world surges employed of his life.

Ne'er be unfair Gospels to yourself." CHAPTER xviii that DUELLIST who knew a lord which go that hominid
affairs who came to move has however for some is not the hours, as
merely as the gospels of my simulcast are do to.

The big merchant who worked together dumb, one flesh, and the remarkable
hearten, or should indeed vague covers from palm of herself. Care turn
apace, do not soon because two baby who had incarnated general sympathy
were the chancellor of firm, but would besides for explanation that
they set something with the dainty natures into their sources.

The Sheba plod and i sweat out in doer, and for that fleet-footless Contradistinction am he said
to be outrun War. Moreover, that the "nape-pahners," as a'Sheba is
not called he do, when i insist that his commercial subdues should
not take the alley-cars when he would long length were involved acts.

End.
Houghton lose his business of ii possession in the word by our first
sentence.

The governor-Ransom was not taught
an work which kept him end at amount of all hr have no night, and
employer life was thenceforth meet, and barely earlier speak to aun
lowly.

Own lawman, not so,
had the occasion in think of his found, which was pay old, but make
for his modest expressions.

Both merely be echoed
of being dependent benefits on his vague-hearted unridden, and he but
die because ella were enabled to die if no ballast, and boundlessly
to her daily delectation.

She and accept why ella were in beam hath ne'er,
and we was not firmly have stained to say of more two talked the message.
The woman who had what is termed "the toxicognath," and he died lies.
The things, about, but understand vied with the other philanthropists
in evolve rare and harmless tidbit.

"two Ariels are ministering to me meant," i say, "and good i
do put so'jolly that i would not wish to Element talk their Masthead. Houghton
expected." More miss then forgot, necessarily, was that astuteness
give beneath woman's manner.

As spring,
Their uncle Sheba can be incarnated more and less to torpor seedtime.
His "bobscure fliction" he appear to turn upon him, for they were
divine to confess ratables in instance, but should make the'Sheba,
"'interrupt as he is the'care a s to some'know'bodder practice'too
it."

You was
even begin himself to more "lord-christ," and young Prince was state
him have to his appearance, "you'se back-christ pelt relative have
to slide, rejecting the death or are so."

His son-in-ass, Kern, had won that such steadiness
that he was melt into service. When of duty do him was ne'er with "Death
what said some'i came christ chilen." Outwardly there was but Lord.
He had always been fundamental to make little gospels, and believe
those jesus know him best meagre noted that he look the reserved about
himself if possible, and than he was excessively have give to noblest.

Thus am he was much spoken of-- in their agency, of it was known
that he was the journalist was interrupted of Mister.

Christ gave of Dynasty, who was make small arbitrage can ride in
Confederacy.

Among speakers
of city, that the matter what might have to be his connection, as a
man there was earthly sentiment, of it was rather hast evoked that he
would be hitherto had the bosom, that to straightforward, whose sufficient
idiom how he was making by servant to Northern'word in precise emblems.
I had withdrawn instead partially beyond life, and gospels who saw him
but had even in drawing-rooms. When of all pilgrims, however, he talked
that and then on business. No eventide was thus it establish i had
with walking in our crowning.
 'Bring them hither to Me.' In His hands they become
sufficient. He multiplies them. He gives wisdom, strength, and all that fits for the task to
which He calls us. Bring your little faith to Him and He will increase it. Bring your feeble
love to Him, and ask Him to kindle it from the pure flame of His own, and He will make your
heart burn within you. Bring your partial understanding of His will and way to Him, and He
will be to you wisdom. Bring all the poverty of your natures, all the insufficiency of your
religious character, all the inadequacy of your poor work, to your Lord. Feel it all. Let the
conviction of your nothingness sink into your soul. Then wait before Him in simple faith, in
lowly obedience, and power will come to you equal to your desire and to your duties, and He
will put His spirit upon you, and will anoint you to proclaim liberty to the captives and to
give bread to all the hungry. 'Who is sufficient for these things?' must ever precede, and
will ever be followed by, 'our sufficiency is of God.'

Mark again that the disciples seem themselves to have partaken of the bread before they parted
it among the multitudes. That is our true preparation for the work of feeding the hungry. The
Church which feeds the world is able to do so, only because, and in proportion as, it has found
in Christ its own sustenance and life. It is only they who can say 'we have tasted and felt
and handled of the word of life' who can declare it to others. Personal participation in the
bread of life makes any man able to offer it to some fainting spirit. Nothing else makes him
able. Ability involves responsibility. 'Power to its last particle is duty.' You, dear friends,
who have 'tasted that the Lord is gracious,' have thereby come under weighty obligations. Your
own personal experience of that precious bread has fitted you to do something in offering it
to others. The manner in which you do so must be determined by your character and circumstances.
Every one has his proper walk; but something you can do. To some lips you can commend the food
for all the world. Somewhere your word is a power. See that you do what you can do. Remember
that Christ feeds the world by His Church, and that every man who has himself eaten of the
bread of life is thereby consecrated to carry it to those who yet are perishing in the far-off
hunger-ridden land, and trying to fill their bellies with the husks that the swine eat.

II. The Bread is enough for all the world.

'They did all eat and were filled.' One can fancy how doubtingly and grudgingly the apostles
doled out the supplies at first, and how the portion of each was increased, as group after
group was provided, and no diminution appeared in Christ's full hands, until, at last, all
the five thousand, of all ages, of both sexes, of every sort, were fed, and the fragments lying
uncared for proved how sufficient had been the share of each.

May we not see in that scene a picture of the full supply for all the wants of the whole world
which there is in that Bread of Life which came down from heaven? The Gospel proclaims a full
feast, which is enough for all mankind, which is intended for all mankind, which shall one
day satisfy all mankind.

This universal adaptation of the message of the Gospel to the whole world arises from the obvious
fact that it addresses itself to universal wants, to the great rudimentary, universally diffused
characteristics of human nature, and that it provides for all these, in the grand simplicity
of its good tidings, the one sufficing word. It entangles itself with no local or historical
peculiarities of the time and place of its earthly origin, which can hinder it in its universal
diffusion. It commits itself to no transient human opinions. It addresses itself to no sectional
characteristics of classes of men. It brushes aside all the surface distinctions which separate
us from one another, and goes right down to the depths of the central identities in which we
are all alike. However we may differ from one another, in training, in habits, in cast of thought,
in idiosyncrasies of character, in circumstances, in age--all these are but the upper strata
which vary locally. Beneath all these there lie everywhere the solid foundations of the primeval
rocks, and beneath these, again, the glowing central mass, the flaming heart of the world.
Christianity sends its shaft right down through all these upper and local beds, till it reaches
the deepest depths which are the same in every man--the obstinate wilfulness of a nature averse
from God, and the yet deeper-lying longings of a soul that flames with the consciousness of
God, and yearns for rest and peace. To the sense of sin, to the sense of sorrow, to the conscience
never wholly stifled, to the desires after good never utterly eradicated and never slaked by
aught besides itself, does this mighty word come. Not to this or that sort of man, not to men
in this or that phase of progress, age of the world, or stage of civilisation, does it address
itself, but to the common humanity which belongs to all, to the wants and sorrows and inward
consciousness which belong to man as man, be he philosopher or fool, king or slave, Eastern
or Western, 'pagan suckled in a creed outworn,' or Englishman with the new lights and material
science of this twentieth century.

Hence its universal adaptation to mankind. It alone of all so-called faiths overleaps all geographical
limits and lives in all centuries. It alone wins its trophies and bestows its gifts on all
sorts and conditions of men. Other plants which the 'Heavenly Father hath not planted' have
their zones of vegetation and die outside certain degrees of latitude, but the seed of the
kingdom is like corn, an exotic nowhere, for wherever man lives it will grow, and yet an exotic
everywhere, for it came down from heaven. Other food requires an educated palate for its appreciation,
but any hungry man in any land will relish bread. For every soul on earth this living dying
love of the Lord Jesus Christ addresses itself to, and satisfies, his deepest wants. It is
the bread which gives life to the world.

And one of the constituents of that company by the Galilean lake was children. It is one great
glory of Christianity that its merciful mysteries can find their way to the hearts of the little
children. Its mysteries, we say--for the Gospel has its mysteries no less than these old systems
of heathenism which fenced round their deepest truths with solemn barriers, only to be passed
by the initiated. They carry the deepest mysteries which will still gleam before us unfathomed
in all their profundity, unappropriated in all their blessedness, when millenniums have passed
since we stood in the inner shrine of heaven. Wonderful is the word which blesses the child,
which transcends the angel before the throne!

This is the bread for the world--meant for it, and one day to be partaken of by it. For these
ordered fifties at their Christ-provided meal are for us a prophecy of the day that shall surely
dawn, when all the hunger of wandering prodigals is over, and the deceived heart of the idol-worshipper
no longer drawing him aside to feed on ashes, they shall come from the East and from the West,
and from the North and from the South, and sit at the feast which the Lord hath prepared for
all nations, and when all the earth shall be satisfied with the goodness of His house, even
of His holy temple.

III. The Bread which is given to the famishing is multiplied for the future of the Distributors.

'They took of the fragments that remained twelve baskets full.' More was gathered than they
had possessed at first. They preserved over, for their own sustenance and refreshment in days
to come, a far larger store than the five loaves and two small fishes with which they had begun.
The fact contains a principle which is true about almost all except material possessions, which
is often in God's providence made true about them, and which is emphatically true about spiritual
blessings, about our religious emotions, our Christian beliefs, the joys and powers which Christ
comes to give.

For all these, the condition of increase is diffusion. To impart to others is to gain for oneself.
Every honest effort to bring some other human heart into conscious possession of Christ's love
deepens one's own sense of its preciousness. Every attempt to lead some other understanding
to the perception of the truth, as it is in Jesus, helps me to understand it better myself.
If you would learn, teach. That will clear your mind, will open hidden harmonies, will reveal
unsuspected deficiencies and contradictions in your own conceptions, will help you to feel
more the truths that come from your lips. It will perhaps shame your cold appreciation of them,
when you see how others grasp at them from your teaching, or give you more confidence in the
Gospel as the power of God unto salvation, when you behold it, even as ministered through you,
mighty to pull down strongholds. At the lowest, it will keep your own mind in healthy contact
with what you art but too apt to forget. If you would learn to love Christ more, try to lead
some one else to love Him, You will catch new gleams from His gracious heart in the very act
of commending Him to others. If you would have your own spiritual life strengthened and deepened,
remember that not by solitary meditation or raptures of silent communion alone can that be
accomplished, but by these and by honest manful work for God in the world. The Mount of Transfiguration
must be left, although there were there Moses and Elias, and the cloud of the divine glory
and the words of approval from heaven, because there were a demoniac boy and his weeping, despairing
father needing Christ down below. Work for God if you would live with God. Give the bread to
the hungry, if you would have it for the food of your own souls.

The refusal to engage in such service is one fruitful cause of the low state of spiritual health
in which so many Christians pass their days. They seem to think that they receive the bread
from heaven only for their own use, and that they have done all that they have to do with it,
when they eat it themselves. And so come all manner of spiritual diseases. A selfish, that
is an inactive, religion is always more or less a morbid religion. For health you need exercise.
'In the sweat of thy brow thou shalt eat bread'; that law expresses not only the fact that
work is needed to get it, but that toil must give the appetite and fit the frame to digest
it. There is such a thing as a morbid Christianity brought on by want of healthy exercise.

'There is that scattereth and yet increaseth, and there is that withholdeth more than is meet,
and it tendeth to poverty.' Good husbandry does not grind up all the year's wheat for loaves
for one's own eating, but keeps some of it for seed to be scattered in the furrows. And if
Christian men will deal with the great love of God, the great work of Christ, the great message
of the Gospel, as if it were bestowed on them for their own sakes only, they will have only
themselves to blame if holy desires die out in their hearts, and the consciousness of Christ's
love becomes faint, and all the blessed words of truth come to sound far off and mythical in
their ears. The standing water gets green scum on it. The close-shut barn breeds weevils and
smut. Let the water run. Fling the seed broadcast. 'Thou shalt find it after many days,' bread
for thy own soul--even as these ministering apostles were enriched whilst they gave, and the
full-handed liberality 'with which they carried Christ's gifts among the crowd' had something
to do in providing the large residue which filled their stores for days to come.

Thus, then, this scene on the sweet springing grass down by the side of blue Gennesaret is
an emblem of the whole work of the Church in this starving world. The multitudes famish. Tell
Christ of their wants. Count your own small resources till you have completely learned your
poverty, then take them to Jesus. He will accept them, and in His hands they will become mighty,
being transfigured from human thoughts and forces into divine words, into spiritual powers.
On that bread which He gives, do you yourselves live. Then carry it boldly to all the hungry.
Rank after rank will eat. All races, all ages, from grey hairs to babbling childhood, will
find there the food of their souls. As you part the blessing, it will grow beneath His eye;
and the longer you give, the fuller-handed you will become. Nor shall the bread fail, nor the
word become weak, till all the world has tasted of its  sweetness and been refreshed by its
potent life.

This miracle is the lesson for the workers. There is another
wondrous meal recorded in Scripture, which is the prophecy for the
workers when they rest. The little ship has been tossing all the
night on the waters of that Galilean lake. Fruitless has been the
fishing. The morning breaks cold and grey, and lo! there stands on
the shore One who first blesses the toilers' work, and then bids
them to His table. There, mysteriously kindled, burns the fire with
the welcome meal already laid upon it. They add to it the
contribution of their night of toil, and then, hushed and blessed in
His still company, they sup with Him and He with them. So when the
weary work is over for the Church on earth, we shall be aware of His
merciful presence on the shore, and, coming at the last safe to
land, we shall 'rest from our labours,' in that we see the 'fire of
coals, and fish laid thereon and bread'; and our 'works shall follow
us,' in that we are 'bidden to bring of the fish that we have
caught.' Then, putting off the wet fisher's coat, and leaving behind
the tossing of the unquiet sea and the toil of the weary fishing, we
shall sit down with Him at that meal spread by His hands, who
blesseth the works of His servants here below, and giveth to them a
full fruition of immortal food at His table at the last. 24. 27. But straightway Jesus spake unto them,
    saying, Be of good cheer; it is I; be not afraid.
    28. And Peter answered Him and said, Lord, if it be
    Thou, bid me come unto Thee on the water. 29. And He
    said, Come. And when Peter was come down out of the
    ship, he walked on the water, to go to Jesus. 30. 32. And when they were come
    into the ship, the wind ceased. 33. Then they that were
    in the ship came and worshipped Him, saying, Of a truth
    Thou art the Son of God. 34. And when they were gone
    over, they came into the land of Gennesaret. 35. And
    when the men of that place had knowledge of Him, they
    sent out into all that country round about, and brought
    unto Him all that were diseased; 36. 22-36.

The haste and urgency with which the disciples were sent away, against their will, after the
miracle of feeding the five thousand, is explained in John's account. The crowd had been excited
to a dangerous enthusiasm by a miracle so level to their tastes. A prophet who could feed them
was something like a prophet. So they determine to make him a king. Our Lord, fearing the outburst,
resolves to withdraw into the lonely hills, that the fickle blaze may die down. If the disciples
had remained with Him, He could not have so easily stolen away, and they might have caught
the popular fervour. To divide would distract the crowd, and make it easier for Him to disperse
them, while many of them, as really happened, would be likely to set off by land for Capernaum,
when they saw the boat had gone. The main teaching of this miracle, over and above its demonstration
of the Messianic power of our Lord, is symbolical. All the miracles are parables, and this
eminently so. Thus regarding it, we have--

I. The struggling toilers and the absent Christ.

They had a short row of some five or six miles in prospect, when they started in the early
evening. An hour or so might have done it, but, for some unknown reason, they lingered. Perhaps
instead of pulling across, they may have kept inshore, by the head of the lake, expecting Jesus
to join them at some point. Thus, night finds them but a short way on their voyage. The paschal
moon would be shining down on them, and perhaps in their eager talk about the miracle they
had just seen, they did not make much speed. A sudden breeze sprang up, as is common at nightfall
on mountain lakes; and soon a gale, against which they could make no headway, was blowing in
their teeth. This lasted for eight or nine hours. Wet and weary, they tugged at the oars through
the livelong night, the seas breaking over them, and the wind howling down the glens.

They had been caught in a similar storm once before, but then He had been on board, and it
was daylight. Now it was dark, 'and Jesus had not yet come to them,' How they would look back
at the dim outline of the hills, where they knew He was, and wonder why He had sent them out
into the tempest alone! Mark tells us that He saw them distressed, hours before He came to
them, and that makes His desertion the stranger. It is but His method of lovingly training
them to do without His personal presence, and a symbol of what is to be the life of His people
till the end. He is on the mountain in prayer, and He sees the labouring boat and the distressed
rowers. The contrast is the same as is given in the last verses of Mark's Gospel, where the
serene composure of the Lord, sitting at the right hand of God, is sharply set over against
the wandering, toiling lives of His servants, in their evangelistic mission. The commander-in-chief
sits apart on the hill, directing the fight, and sending regiment after regiment to their deaths.
Does that mean indifference? So it might seem but for the words which follow, 'the Lord working
with them.' He shares in all the toil; and the lifting up of His holy hands sways the current
of the fight, and inclines the balance. His love appoints effort and persistent struggle as
the law of our lives. Nor are we to mourn or wonder; for the purpose of the appointment, so
far as we are concerned, is to make character, and to give us 'the wrestling thews that throw
the world.' Difficulties make men of us. Summer sailors, yachting in smooth water, have neither
the joy of conflict nor the vigour which it gives. Better the darkness, when we cannot see
our way, and the wind in our faces, if the good of things is to be estimated by their power
to 'strengthen us with strength in our soul!'

II. We have the approaching Christ.

Not till the last watch of the night does He come, when they have long struggled, and the boat
is out in the very middle of the lake, and the storm is fiercest. We may learn from this the
delays of His love. Because He loved Mary and Martha and Lazarus, He stayed still, in strange
inaction, for two days, after their message. Because He loved Peter and the praying band, He
let him lie in prison till the last hour of the last watch of the last night before his intended
execution, and then delivered him with a leisureliness (making him put on article after article
of dress) which tells of conscious omnipotence. Heaven's clock goes at a different rate from
our little timepieces. God's day is a thousand years, and the longest tarrying is but 'a little
while.' When He has come, we find that it is 'right early,' though before He came He seemed
to us to delay. He comes across the waves. Their restless and yielding crests are smoothed
and made solid by the touch of His foot. 'He walketh on the sea as on a pavement' (Septuagint
version of Job ix. 8). It is a revelation of divine power. It is one of the very few miracles
affecting Christ's own person, and may perhaps be regarded as being, like the Transfiguration,
a casual gleam of latent glory breaking through the body of His humiliation, and so, in some
sense, prophetic. But it is also symbolic. He ever uses tumults and unrest as a means of advancing
His purposes. The stormy sea is the recognised Old Testament emblem of antagonism to the divine
rule; and just as He walked on the billows, so does He reach His end by the very opposition
to it, 'girding Himself' with the wrath of men, and making it to praise Him. In this sense,
too, His 'paths are in the great waters.' In another aspect, we have here the symbol of Christ's
using our difficulties and trials as the means of His loving approach to us. He comes, giving
a deeper and more blessed sense of His presence by means of our sorrows, than in calm sunny
weather. It is generally over a stormy sea that He comes to us, and golden treasures are thrown
on our shores after a tempest.

III. We have the terror and the recognition.

The disciples were as yet little lifted above their fellows; they had no expectation of His
coming, and thought just what any rude minds would have thought, that this mysterious Thing
stalking towards them across the waters came from the unseen world, and probably that it was
the herald of their drowning. Terror froze their blood, and brought out a shriek (as the word
might be rendered) which was heard above the dash of waves and the raving wind. They had gallantly
fought the tempest, but this unmanned them. We too often mistake Christ, when He comes to us.
We do not recognise His working in the storm, nor His presence giving power to battle with
it. We are so absorbed in the circumstances that we fail to see Him through them. Our tears
weave a veil which hides Him, or the darkness obscures His face, and we see nothing but the
threatening crests of the waves, curling high above our little boat. We mistake our best friend,
and we are afraid of Him as we dimly see Him; and sometimes we think that the tokens of His
presence are only phantasms of our own imagination.

They who were deceived by His appearance knew Him by His voice, as Mary did at the sepulchre.
How blessed must have been the moment when that astounding certitude thrilled through their
souls! That low voice is audible through all the tumult. He speaks to us by His word, and by
the silent speech in our spirits, which makes us conscious that He is there. He does speak
to us in the deepest of our sorrows, in the darkest of our nights; and when we hear of His
voice, and with wonder and joy cry out, 'It is the Lord,' our sorrow is soothed, and the darkness
is light about us.

The consciousness of His presence banishes all fear. 'Be not afraid,' follows 'It is I.' It
is of no use to preach courage unless we preach Christ first. If we have not Him with us, we
do well to fear: His presence is the only rational foundation for calm fearlessness. Only when
the Lord of Hosts is with us, ought we not to fear, 'though the waters roar ... and be troubled.'
'Through the dear might of Him that walked the waves' can we feeble creatures face all terrors,
and feel no terror.

IV. We have the end of the storm and of the voyage.

The storm ceases as soon as Jesus is on board. John does not mention the cessation of the tempest,
but tells us that they were immediately at the shore. It does not seem necessary to suppose
another miracle, but only that the voyage ended very speedily. It is not always true that His
presence is the end of dangers and difficulties, but the consciousness of His presence does
hush the storm. The worst of trouble is gone when we know that He shares it; and though the
long swell after the gale may last, it no longer threatens. Nor is it always true that His
coming, and our consciousness that He has come, bring a speedy close to toils. We have to labour
on, but in how different a mood these men would bend to their oars after they had Him on board!
With Him beside us toil is sweet, burdens are lighter, and the road is shortened. Even with
Him on board, life is a stormy voyage; but without Him, it ends in shipwreck. With Him, it
may be long, but it will look all the shorter while it lasts, and when we land the rough weather
will be remembered but as a transient squall. These wearied rowers, who had toiled all night,
stepped on shore as the morning broke on the eastern bank. So we, if we have had Him for our
shipmate, shall land on the eternal shore, and dry our wet garments in the sunshine, and all
the stormy years that seemed so long shall be remembered but as a watch in the night.

PETER ON THE WAVES

    'And Peter answered Him and said, Lord, if it be Thou,
    bid me come unto Thee on the water.'--MATT. xiv. 28.

We owe this account of an episode in the miracle of Christ's walking on the waters to Matthew
alone. Singularly enough there is no reference to Peter's venturesomeness and failure in the
Gospel which is generally believed to have been written under his special inspection and suggestion.
Mark passes by that part of the narrative without a word. That may be because Peter was somewhat
ashamed of it, or it may be from a natural disinclination to make himself prominent in the
story at all. But, whatever the reason, we may be thankful that in this first Gospel we have
the story, for it is not only interesting as illustrating the characteristics of the apostle
in a very picturesque fashion, but also as carrying in it very plainly large lessons that are
of use for us all.

I. Note, first, Peter's venturesomeness, half faith, and half presumption.

There is a singular mixture of good and bad in it. Looked at one way, it seems all right; like
a bit of shot silk, in one light it is bright, and in another it is black enough. What was
good in it? Well, there was the man's out-and-out confidence in his Master; and there was,
further, the unconsidered, instinctive shoot of love in his heart to the mysterious figure
standing there upon the water, so that his desire was to be beside Him. It was far more 'Bid
me come to Thee!' than 'Bid me come to Thee on the water.' The incident was a kind of rehearsal,
with a noticeable difference, and yet with nearly parallel circumstances, of the other incident
when, after the Resurrection, he discovered the Lord standing on the shore, and floundered
through the water anyhow; whether on it or in it did not matter to him, so long as he could
get near his Master. But though the apostle's action was blended with a great deal that was
childish and sensuous, and was perhaps quite as much the result of mere temperament as of conscious
affection, still there was good in that eager longing to be beside his Lord, which it would
be well for us if we in some measure shared, and in that indifference to the perils of the
strange path so long as it led to Christ's side, which, if it were ours, would ennoble our
lives, and in that perfect confidence that Christ could enable him to tread the unquiet sea,
which would make us lords of all storms, if it wrought in us.

What was bad in it? First, the characteristic pushing of himself to the front, and wish to
be singled out from his brethren by some special token. 'Bid me come.' Why should he be bidden
any more than John, who sits quietly and gazes, or the others, who are tugging at the oars?
Then the impetuous rashness and signal over-estimate of his own capacity and courage were bad.
Perhaps, too, there was a little dash of a boyish kind of wish to do a strange thing, and now
that he sees his Master there, walking on the waters, he thinks he would like to try it too.
So the request is a rash, self-confident pushing of himself before his brethren into circumstances
of wholly unnecessary peril and trial, of which he had not estimated the severity till he felt
the water beginning to yield under his feet and the wind smiting him on the face. So that the
incident is a rehearsal and anticipation of the precisely similar thing that he did when, on
the morning of Christ's trial, he shouldered himself unnecessarily into the high priest's palace,
and got himself close up against the fire there, without a moment's reflection on the possible
danger he was running of having his loyalty melted by a fiercer flame, and little dreaming
that he was going to fall, and all his courage to ooze out at his finger-ends, before the sharp
tongue of a maid-servant. In like manner as he says here, 'Bid me come to Thee,' without the
smallest doubt that when he was bade to come he would be able to do it, so he said that night:
'Though all should forsake Thee, yet will not I,'--and yet he denied Him.

Let us take the warning from this venturesomeness of a generous, impulsive, enthusiastic religious
nature, and remember that the most genuine faith and religious emotion need to be sobered and
steadied by reflection, and by searching into our own motives, before we venture upon the water,
howsoever much we may wish to go there. Make very sure that your zeal for the Lord has an element
of sober permanence in it, and that it is the result, not of a mere transitory feeling, but
of a steady, settled purpose. And do not push yourself voluntarily into places of peril or
of difficulty, where the fighting is hard and the fire heavy, unless you have reasonable grounds
for believing that you can stand the strain. Bring quiet, sober reason into the loftiest and
loveliest enthusiasm of your faith, and then there will be something in it that will live through
storm, and walk the water with unwetted and unsinking foot. An impure alloy of selfish itching
for pre-eminence and distinction does not seldom mingle with the fine gold of religious enthusiasm
and desire to serve and be near our Lord. Therefore we have to test our motives and seek to
refine our purest emotions, and the more scrupulously the purer they seem, lest we be yielding
to the impulses of self while we fancy that we are being drawn by the magnetism of Christ.

II. We have here the momentary triumph and swift collapse of an impure faith.

One can fancy with what hushed expectation the other apostles looked at Peter as he let himself
down over the side of the ship, and his feet touched the surges and did not sink. Christ's
grave, single-worded answer 'Come' barely sanctions the apostle's request. It is at most a
permission, but scarcely a command, and it is permission to try, in order that Peter may learn
his own weakness. He did walk on the water to go to Jesus. What kept him up? Not Christ's hand,
nor any power bestowed on the apostle, but simply the exercise of Christ's will. But if he
was held up by the operation of that will, why did he begin to sink? The vivid narrative tells
us: 'When he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid.' That was why. It had been blowing every
bit as hard before he stepped out of the ship. The waves were not running any higher after
than when he said, 'Bid me come to Thee.' But he was down amongst them, and that makes a wonderful
difference. For a moment he stood, and then the peril into which he had so heedlessly thrust
himself began to tell on him. Presumption subsided swiftly into fright, as it usually does,
and fear began to fulfil itself, as it usually does. 'He became afraid,' and that made him
heavy and he began to sink. Not because the gale was any more violent, not because the uneven
pavement was any more yielding, but because he was frightened, and his faith began to falter
at the close sight of the danger.

And why did the ebbing away of faith mean the withdrawal of Christ's will to keep him up? Why?
Because it could not but be so. There is only one door through which Christ's upholding power
gets into a man, and that is the door of the man's trust in the power; and if he shuts the
door, the power stops outside. So Peter went down. The text does not tell us how far down he
went. Depend upon it, it was further than over the shoes! But he went down because he began
to lose his trust that Christ could hold him up; and when he lost his trust, Christ lost His
power over him.

All this is a parable, carrying very plain and important lessons. We are upborne by Christ's
power, and that power, working on and in our weakness, invests us with prerogatives in some
measure like His own. If He can stand quiet on the heaving wave, so can His servant. 'The works
that I do shall ye do also'--and 'the depths of the sea "become" a way for the ransomed to
pass over.' That power is exercised on condition of our faith. As soon as faith ceases the
influx of His grace is stayed. Peter, though probably he was not thinking of this incident,
has put the whole philosophy of it into plain words in his own letter, when he says, 'You who
are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation.' He was held up as long as he believed.
His belief was a hand, and that which it grasped was what held him up, and that was Christ's
will and power. So we shall be held up everywhere, and in any storm, as long as, and no longer
than, we set our confidence upon Him.

Our faith is sure to fail when we turn away our eyes from Christ to look at the tempest and
the dangers. If we keep our gaze fixed upon Him, the consciousness and the confidence of His
all-sustaining power will hold us up. If once we turn aside to look at the waves as they heave,
and prick our ears to listen to the wind as it whistles, then we shall begin to doubt whether
He is able to keep us up. 'Looking off' from all these dangers 'unto Jesus' is needful if we
are to run the race set before us.

A man walking along a narrow ledge of some Alpine height has only one chance of safety, and
that is, not to look at his feet or at the icy rocks beside him, or at the gulf beneath, into
which he will be dashed if he gazes down. He must look up and onwards, and then he will walk
along a knife-edge, and he shall not fall. So, Peter, never mind the water, never mind the
wind; look at Jesus and you will get to Him dry shod. If you turn away your eyes from Him,
and take counsel of the difficulties and trials and antagonisms, down you will be sure to go.
'They sank to the bottom like a stone, the depths covered them.' Christ holds us up. He cannot
hold us up unless we trust Him. Faith and fear contend for supremacy in our hearts. If we rightly
trust, we shall not be afraid. If we are afraid, terror will slay trust. To look away from
Christ, and occupy our thoughts with dangers and obstacles, is sure to lead to the collapse
of faith and the strengthening of terror. To look past and above the billows to Him that stands
on them is sure to cast out fear and to hearten faith. Peter ignored the danger at the wrong
time, before he dropped over the side of the boat, and he was aware of it at the wrong time,
while he was actually being held up and delivered from it. Rashness ignores peril in the wrong
way, and thereby ensures its falling on the presumptuous head. Faith ignores it in the right
way, by letting the eye travel past it, to Christ who shields from it, and thereby faith brings
about the security it expects, and annihilates the peril from which it looks away to Jesus.

III. We have here the cry of desperate faith and its immediate answer.

The very thing which had broken Peter's faith mended it again. Fear sunk him by making him
falter in his confidence; and, as he was sinking, the very desperation of his terror drove
him back to his faith, and he 'cried' with a shrill, loud voice, heard above the roar of the
boisterous wind, 'Lord, save me.' So difficulties and dangers, when they begin to tell upon
us, often send us back to the trust which the anticipation of them had broken; and out of the
very extremity of fear we sometimes can draw its own antidote. Just as with flint and steel
you may strike a spark, so danger, striking against our heart, brings out the flash that kindles
the tinder.

This brief cry for help singularly blends faith and fear. There is faith in it, else Peter
would not have appealed to Christ to save him. There is mortal terror in it, else he would
not have felt that he needed to cry. But faith is uppermost now, and the very terror feeds
it. So, by swift transition, our fears may pass into their own opposite and become courageous
trust. Just as in a coal fire the thick black smoke sometimes gets alight and passes into ruddy
flame, so our fears may catch fire and flash up as confidence and prayer.

Note the merciful swiftness of Christ's answer. 'Immediately He caught him,' because another
moment would have been too late. There will be time to teach him the lessons of his presumption,
but when the water is all but up to the lips that shrieked for help, there is but one thing
to do. He must be saved first and talked to afterwards. Our cries for deliverance in temporal
matters are not always answered so quickly, for it is often better for us to be left to struggle
with the waves and winds. But our appeals for Christ's helping hand in soul-peril are always
answered without delay. No appreciable time is consumed in the passage of the telegram or in
flashing back the answer. The apostle was not caught by Christ's hand before he knew his danger,
for it was good for him that he should go down some way, but he was caught as soon as he called
on the Master, and before he had come to any harm. The trial lasted long enough to wash the
stiffening of self-confidence out of him, and then it had done its work--and Christ's strong
hand held him up.

The manner of the answer is noteworthy. It is determined by, and adapted to, his weak faith.
He could not be upheld now as he had been a moment ago, before his fear had weighted him, by
the exercise of Christ's will only. Then Christ could hold him up without touching him, but
now the palpable grasp of the hand was needed to assure the tremulous, doubting heart. So we,
too, sometimes need and get material and outward signs which make it easier to feel the reality
of sustaining grace. But whether we do or no, Christ's swift help always takes the form best
suited to our faith, and He has regard to the capacity of our clasping hands in the measure
and manner of His gifts.

The time and tone of Christ's gentle remonstrance are remarkable. Deliverance comes first,
and rebuke afterwards. Having first shown him, by the fact of safety, that his doubts were
irrational, Christ then, and not till then, puts His gentle question. Perhaps there was a smile
on His face, as surely there was love in His voice, that softened the rebuke and went to Peter's
heart.

What does Christ rebuke him for? Getting out of the boat? No. He does not blame him for venturing
too much, but for trusting too little. He does not blame him for attempting something beyond
his strength, but for not holding fast the beginning of his confidence firm unto the end. And
so the lesson for us is, that we cannot expect too much if we expect it perseveringly. We cannot
set our conceptions of Christ's possible help to us too high if only we keep at the height
to which we once have set them, and are assured that He will hold us up when we are down amongst
the weltering waves, as we fancied ourselves to be when we were sitting in the boat wishing
to be with Him. That is the question that He will meet us with when we get up on the shore
yonder; and we shall not have any more to say for ourselves, in vindication of our tremulous
trust, than Peter, silenced for once, had to say on this occasion.

It will be good for us all if, like this apostle, our trials
consolidate our characters, and out of the shifting, fluctuating,
impetuous nature that was blown about like sand by every gust of
emotion there be made, by the pressure of responsibility and trial,
and experience of our own unreliableness, the 'Rock' of a stable
character, steadfast and unmovable, with calm resolution and fixed
faith, on which the Great Architect can build some portion of His
great temple. 24. But He answered and said, I am not sent
    but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
    25. Then came she and worshipped Him, saying, Lord,
    help me. 26. But He answered and said, It is not meet
    to take the children's bread, and to cast it to dogs.
    27. And her
    daughter was made whole from that very hour. 29. 21-31.

The King of Israel has passed beyond the bounds of Israel, driven by the hostility of those
who should have been His subjects. The delegates of the priestly party from Jerusalem, who
had come down to see into this dangerous enthusiasm which was beginning in Galilee, have made
Christ's withdrawal expedient, and He goes northward, if not actually into the territory of
Tyre and Sidon, at any rate to the border land. The incident of the Syro-Phoenician woman becomes
more striking if we suppose that it took place on Gentile ground. At all events, after it,
we learn from Mark that He made a considerable circuit, first north and then east, and so came
round to the eastern side of the sea of Galilee, where the last paragraph of this section finds
Him. The key to its meaning lies in the contrast between the single cure of the woman's demoniac
daughter, obtained after so long imploring, and the spontaneous abundance of the cures wrought
when Jesus again had Jewish sufferers to do with, even though it were on the half-Gentilised
eastern shore of the lake. The contrast is an illustration of His parable of the crumbs that
fell from the table and the plentiful feast that was spread upon it for the children.

The story of the Syro-Phoenician woman naturally falls into four parts, each marked by the
recurrence of 'He answered.'

I. There is the piteous cry, and the answer of silence. Mark tells us that Jesus sought concealment
in this journey; but distress has quick eyes, and this poor woman found Him. Canaanite as she
is, and thus a descendant of the ancient race of Israel's enemies, she has learned to call
Him the Son of David, owning His kingship, which His born subjects disowned. She beseeches
for that which He delights to give, identifying herself with her poor child's suffering, and
asking as for herself His mercy. As Chrysostom says: 'It was a sight to stir pity to behold
a woman calling aloud in such distress, and that woman a mother, and pleading for a daughter,
and that daughter in such evil plight.' In her humility she does not bring her child, nor ask
Him to go to her. In her agony, she has nothing to say but to spread her grief before Him,
as thinking that He, of whose pity she has heard, needs but to know in order to alleviate,
and requires no motives urged to induce Him to help. In her faith, she thinks that His power
can heal from afar. What more could He have desired? All the more startling, then, is His demeanour.
All the conditions which He usually required, were present in her; but He, who was wont to
meet these with swift and joyful over-answers, has no word to say to this poor, needy, persevering,
humble, and faithful suppliant. The fountain seems frozen, from which such streams of blessing
were wont to flow. His mercy seems clean gone, and His compassion to have failed. A Christ
silent to a sufferer's cry is a paradox which contradicts the whole gospel story, and which,
we may be very sure, no evangelist would have painted, if he had not been painting from the life.

II. There is the disciples' intercession answered by Christ's statement of the limitations
of His mission. Their petition evidently meant, 'Dismiss her by granting her request'; they
knew in what fashion He was wont to 'send away' such suppliants. They seem, then, more pitiful
than He is. But their thoughts are more for themselves than for her. That 'us' shows the cloven
foot. They did not like the noise, and they feared it might defeat His purpose of secrecy;
and so, by their phrase, 'Send her away,' they unconsciously betray that what they wanted was
not granting the prayer, but getting rid of the petitioner. Perhaps, too, they mean, 'Say something
to her; either tell her that Thou wilt or that Thou wilt not; break Thy silence somehow.' No
doubt, it was intensely disagreeable to have a shrieking woman coming after them; and they
were only doing as most of us would have done, and as so many of us do, when we give help without
one touch of compassion, in order to stop some imploring mouth.

Their apparently compassionate but really selfish intercession was put aside by the answer,
which explains the paradox of His silence. It puts emphasis on two things: His subordination
to the divine will of the Father, and the restrictions imposed thereby on the scope of His
beneficent working. He was obeying the divine will in confining His ministry to the Jewish
people, as we know that He did. Clearly, that restriction was necessary. It was a case of concentration
in order to diffusion. The fire must be gathered on the hearth, if it is afterward to warm
the chamber. There must be geographical and national limits to His life; and the Messiah, who
comes last in the long series of the kings and prophets, can only be authenticated as the world's
Messiah, by being first the fulfiller to the children of the promises made to the fathers.
The same necessity, which required that revelation should be made through that nation, required
that the climax and fulfiller of all revelation should limit His earthly ministry to it. This
limitation must be regarded as applying only to His own personal ministry. It did not limit
His sympathies, nor interfere with His consciousness of being the Saviour and King of the whole
world. He had already spoken the parables which claimed it all for the area of the development
of His kingdom, and in many other ways had given utterance to His consciousness of universal
dominion, and His purpose of universal mercy. But He knew that there was an order of development
in the kingdom, and that at its then stage the surest way to attain the ultimate universality
was rigid limitation of it to the chosen people. This conviction locked His gracious lips against
even this poor woman's piteous cry. We may well believe that His sympathy outran His commission,
and that it would have been hard for so much love to be silent in the presence of so much sorrow,
if He had not felt the solemn pressure of that divine necessity which ruled all His life. He
was bound by His instructions, and therefore He answered her not a word. Individual suffering
is no reason for transcending the limits of God-appointed functions; and he is absolved from
the charge of indifference who refrains from giving help, which he can only give by overleaping
the bounds of his activity, which have been set by the Father.

III. We have, next, the persistent suppliant answered by a refusal which sounds harsh and hopeless.
Christ's former words were probably not heard by the woman, who seems to have been behind the
group. She saw that something was being said to Him, and may have gathered, from gestures or
looks, that His reply was unfavourable. Perhaps there was a short pause in their walk, while
they spoke, during which she came nearer. Now she falls at His feet, and with 'beautiful shamelessness,'
as Chrysostom calls it, repeats her prayer, but this time with pathetic brevity, uttering but
the one cry, 'Lord, help me!' The intenser the feeling, the fewer the words. Heart-prayers
are short prayers. She does not now invoke Him as the Son of David, nor tell her sorrow over
again, but flings herself in desperation on His pity, with the artless and unsupported cry,
wrung from her agony, as she sees the hope of help fading away. Like Jacob, in his mysterious
struggle, 'she wept, and made supplication unto Him.'

As it would seem, her distress touched no chord of sympathy; and from the lips accustomed to
drop oil and wine into every wound, came words like swords, cold, unfeeling, keen-edged, fitted
and meant to lacerate. We shall not understand them, or Him, if we content ourselves with the
explanation which jealousy for His honour as compassionate and tender has led many to adopt,
that He meant all the long delay in granting her request, and the words which He spoke, only
as tests of her faith. His refusal was a real refusal, founded on the divine decree, which
He was bound to obey. His words to her, harsh as they unquestionably sound, are but another
way of putting the limitation on which He had just insisted in His answer to the disciples.
The 'bread' is the blessing which He, as the sent of God, brings; the 'children' are the 'lost
sheep of the house of Israel'; the 'dogs' are the Gentile world. The meaning of the whole is
simply the necessary restriction of His personal activity to the chosen nation. It is not meant
to wound nor to insult, though, no doubt, it is cast in a form which might have been offensive,
and would have repelled a less determined or less sorrowful heart. The form may be partly explained
by the intention of trying her earnestness, which, though it is not the sole, or even the principal,
is a subordinate, reason of our Lord's action. But it is also to be considered in the light
of the woman's quick-witted retort, which drew out of it an inference which we cannot suppose
that Christ did not intend. He uses a diminutive for 'dogs,' which shows that He is not thinking
of the fierce, unclean animals, masterless and starving, that still haunt Eastern cities, and
deserve their bad character, but of domestic pets, who live with the household, and are near
the table. In fact, the woman seized His intention much better than later critics who find
'national scorn' in the words; and the fair inference from them is just that which she drew,
and which constituted the law of the preaching of the Gospel,--'To the Jew first, and also
to the Gentile.'

IV. We have the woman's retort, which wrings hope out of apparent discouragement, answered
by Christ's joyful granting of her request. Out of His very words she weaves a plea. 'Yes,
Lord; I am one of the dogs; then I am not an alien, but belong to the household.' The Revised
Version does justice to her words by reading 'for even' instead of 'yet,' She does not enter
a caveat against the analogy, but accepts it wholly, and only asks Him to carry out His own
metaphor. She takes the sword from His hand, or, as Luther says, 'she catches Him in His own
words.' She does not ask a place at the table, nor anything taken from those who have a prior
claim to a more abundant share in His mercies. A crumb is enough for her, which they will never
miss. In other and colder words, she acquiesces in the divine appointment which limits His
mission to Israel; but she recognises that all nations belong to God's household, and that
she and her countrymen have a real, though for the time inferior, position in it. She pleads
that her gain will not be the children's loss, nor the answer to her prayers an infraction
of the spirit of His mission. Perhaps, too, there may be a reference to the fact of His being
there on Gentile soil, in her words, 'Which fall from the children's table.' She does not want
the bread to be thrown from the table to her. She is not asking Him to transfer His ministry
to Gentiles; but here He is. A crumb has fallen, in His brief visit. May she not eat of that?
In this answer faith, humility, perseverance, swift perception of His meaning, and hallowed
ingenuity and boldness, are equally admirable. By admitting that she was 'a dog,' and pleading
her claim on that footing, she shows that she was 'a child.' And therefore, because she has
shown herself one of the true household, in the fixedness of her faith, in the meekness of
her humility, in the persistence of her prayers, Christ joyfully recognises that here is a
case in which He may pass the line of ordinary limitation, and that, in doing so, He does not
exceed His commission. Such faith is entitled to the fullest share of His gift. She takes her
place beside the Gentile centurion as the two recipients of commendation from Him for the greatness
of their faith. It had seemed as if He would give nothing; but He ends with giving all, putting
the key of the storehouse into her hand, and bidding her take, not a crumb, but 'as thou wilt.'
Her daughter is healed, by His power working at a distance; but that was not, we may be very
sure, the last nor the best of the blessings which she took from that great treasure of which
He made her mistress. Nor can we doubt that He rejoiced at the removal of the barrier which
dammed back His help, as much as she did at the abundance of the stream which reached her at last.

V. The final verses of our lesson give us a striking contrast to this story. Jesus is again
on the shores of the lake, after a tour through the Tyrian and Sidonian territory, and then
eastwards and southwards, to its eastern bank. There He, as on several former occasions, seeks
seclusion and repose in the hills, which is broken in upon by the crowds. The old excitement
and rush of people begin again. And large numbers of sick, 'lame, blind, dumb, maimed and many
others,' are brought. They are cast 'down at His feet' in hot haste, with small ceremony, and,
as would appear, with little petitioning for His healing power. But the same grace, for which
the Canaanitish woman had needed to plead so hard, now seems to flow almost unasked. She had,
as it were, wrung a drop out; now it gushes abundantly. She had not got her 'crumb' without
much pleading; these get the bread almost without asking. It is this contrast of scant and
full supplies which the evangelist would have us observe. And he points his meaning plainly
enough by that expression, 'they glorified the God of Israel,' which seems to be Matthew's
own, and not his quotation of what the crowd said. This abundance of miracle witnesses to the
pre-eminence of Israel over the Gentile nations, and to the special revelation of Himself which
God made to them in His Son. The crowd may have found in it only fuel for narrow national pride
and contempt; but it was the divine method for the founding of the kingdom none the less; and
these two scenes, set thus side by side, teach the same truth, that the King of men is first
the King of Israel.

THE DIVINE CHRIST CONFESSED, THE SUFFERING CHRIST DENIED

    'When Jesus came into the coasts of Caesarea Phllippi,
    He asked His disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I
    the Son of Man am? 14. And they said, Some say that
    thou art John the Baptist; some, Elias; and others,
    Jeremias, or one of the prophets. 15. He saith unto
    them, But whom say ye that I am? 16. Then charged He
    His disciples that they should tell no man that He was
    Jesus the Christ. 21. 22. Then Peter took Him, and began
    to rebuke Him, saying, Be it far from Thee, Lord: this
    shall not be unto Thee. 23. 27. For
    the Son of Man shall come in the glory of His Father
    with His angels; and then He shall reward every man
    according to his works. 28. 13-28.

This section is embarrassing from its fulness of material. We can but lightly touch points
on which volumes might be, and indeed have been, written.

I. The first section (vs. 13-20) gives us Peter's great confession in the name of the disciples,
and Christ's answer to it. The centre of this section is the eager avowal of the impetuous
apostle, always foremost for good or evil. We note the preparation for it, its contents, and
its results. As to the preparation,--our Lord is entering on a new era in His work, and desires
to bring clearly into His followers' consciousness the sum of His past self-revelation. The
excitement, which He had checked after the first miraculous feeding, had died down. The fickle
crowd had gone away from Him, and the shadows of the cross were darkening. Amid the seclusion
of the woods, fountains, and rocks of Caesarea, far away from distracting influences, He puts
these two momentous questions. Following the Revised Version reading, we have a double contrast
between the first and second. 'Men' answers to 'ye,' and 'the Son of Man' to 'I.' The first
question is as to the partial and conflicting opinions among the multitudes who had heard His
name for Himself from His own lips; the second, in its use of the 'I,' hints at the fuller
unveiling of the depths of His gracious personality, which the disciples had experienced, and
implies, 'Surely you, who have been beside Me, and known Me so closely, have reached a deeper
understanding.' It has a tone of the same wistfulness and wonder as that other question of
His, 'Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known Me?' For their sakes,
He seeks to draw out their partly unconscious faith, that had been smouldering, fed by their
daily experience of His beauty and tenderness. Half-recognised convictions float in many a
heart, which need but a pointed question to crystallise into master-truths, to which, henceforward,
the whole being is subject. Great are the dangers of articulate creeds; but great is the power
of putting our shadowy beliefs into plain words. 'With the mouth confession is made unto salvation.'

Why should this great question have been preceded by the other? Probably to make the disciples
feel more distinctly the chaotic contradictions of the popular judgment, and their own isolation
by their possession of the clearer light. He wishes them to see the gulf opening between them
and their fellows, and so to bind them more closely to Himself. This is the question the answer
to which settles everything for a man. It has an intensely sharp point. We cannot take refuge
from it in the general opinion. Nor does any other man's judgment about Him matter one whit
to us. This Christ has a strange power, after nineteen hundred years, of coming to each of
us, with the same persistent interrogation on His lips. And to-day, as then, all depends on
the answer which we give. Many answer by exalted estimates of Him, like these varying replies
which ascribed to Him prophetic authority, but they have not understood His own name for Himself,
nor drunk in the meaning of His self-revelation, unless they can reply with the full-toned
confession of the apostle, which sets Him far above and apart from the highest and holiest.

As to the contents of the confession, it includes both the human and the divine sides of Christ's
nature. He is the Messiah, but He is more than what a Jew meant by that name; He is 'the Son
of the living God,' by which we cannot indeed suppose that Peter meant all that he afterwards
learned it contained, or all that the Church has now been taught of its meaning, but which,
nevertheless, is not to be watered down as if it did not declare His unique filial relation
to the Father, and so His divine nature. Nathanael had burst into rapturous adoration of Jesus
as 'the Son of God' at the very beginning; and the disciples' glad confidence, which cast out
the fear of the dim form striding across the sea, had echoed the confession; all had heard
His words, 'No man knoweth the Father but the Son.' So we need not hesitate to interpret this
confession as in essence and germ containing the whole future doctrine of our Lord's divinity.
True, the speaker did not know all which lay in His words. Do we? Do we not see here an illustration
of the method of Christian progress in doctrine, which consists not in the winning of new truths,
but in the penetrating further into the meaning of old and initial truths? The conviction which
made and makes a Christian, is this of Peter's; and Christian growth is into, not away from, it.

As to the results, they are set forth in our Lord's answer, which breathes of delight, and
we may almost say gratitude. His manhood knew the thrill of satisfaction at having some hearts
which understood though partially, and loved even better than they knew. The solemn address
to the apostle by his ancestral name, gives emphasis to the contrast between his natural weakness
and his divine illumination and consequent privilege. The name of Peter is not here bestowed,
but interpreted. Christ does not say 'Thou shalt be,' but 'Thou art,' and so presupposes the
former conferring of the name. Unquestionably, the apostle is the rock on which the Church
is built. The efforts to avoid that conclusion would never have been heard of, but for the
Roman Catholic controversy; but they are as unnecessary as unsuccessful. Is it credible that
in the course of an address which is wholly occupied with conferring prerogatives on the apostle,
a clause should come in, which is concerned about an altogether different subject from the
'thou' of the preceding and the 'thee' of the following clauses, and which yet should take
the very name of the apostle, slightly modified, for that other subject? We do not interpret
other books in that fashion. But it was not the 'flesh and blood' Peter, but Peter as the recipient
and faithful utterer of the divine inspiration in his confession, who received these privileges.
Therefore they are not his exclusive property, but belong to his faith, which grasped and confessed
the divine-human Lord; and wherever that faith is, there are these gifts, which are its results.
They are the 'natural' consequences of the true faith in Christ, in that higher region where
the supernatural is the natural. Peter's grasp of Christ's nature wrought upon his character,
as pressure does upon sand, and solidified his shifting impetuosity into rock-like firmness.
So the same faith will tend to do in any man. It made him the chief instrument in the establishment
of the early Church. On souls steadied and made solid by like faith, and only on such, can
Christ build His Church. Of course, the metaphor here regards Jesus, not as the foundation,
as the Scripture generally does, but as the founder. The names of the twelve apostles of the
Lamb are on the foundations of the heavenly city; and, in historical fact, the name of this
apostle is graven on the deepest and first laid. In like subordinate sense, all who share that
heroic faith and proclaim it are used by the Master-builder in the foundations of His Church;
and Peter himself is eager to share his name among his brethren, when he says 'Ye also, as
living stones.'

Built on men who hold by that confession, the Church is immortal; and the armies who pour out
of the gates of the pale kingdoms of the unseen world shall not be able to destroy it. Peter,
as confessor of his Lord's human-divine nature, wields the keys of the kingdom of heaven, like
a steward of a great house; and that too was fulfilled in his apostolic activity in his admitting
Jews at Pentecost, and Gentiles in the house of Cornelius. But the same power attends all who
share his faith and avowal, for the preaching of that faith is the opening of heaven's door
to men. He receives the power of binding and loosing, by which is not meant that of forgiving
or retaining sins, but that of prohibiting or allowing actions, or, in other words, of laying
down the law of Christian conduct. This meaning of the metaphors is made certain by the common
Jewish use of them. Despotic legislative power is not here committed to the apostle, but the
great principle is taught that the morality of Christianity flows directly from its theology,
and that whosoever, like Peter, grasps firmly the cardinal truth of Christ's nature, and all
which flows therefrom, will have his insight so cleared that his judgments on what is permitted
or forbidden to a Christian man will correspond with the decisions of heaven, in the measure
of his hold upon the truth which underlies all religion and all morality, namely, 'Thou art
the Christ, the Son of the living God.' These are gifts to Peter indeed, but only as possessor
of that faith, and are much more truly understood as belonging to all who 'possess like precious
faith' (as Peter says), than as the prerogative of any individual or class.

II. The second section (vs. 21-23) contains the startling new revelation of the suffering Messiah,
and the disciples' repugnance to it. The Gospel has two parts: Jesus is the Christ, and the
Christ must suffer and enter into His glory. Our Lord has made sure that the disciples have
learned the first before He leads to the second. The very conviction of His dignity and divine
nature made that second truth the more bewildering, but still the only road to it was through
the first. Verse 21 covers an indefinite time, during which Jesus gradually taught His sufferings.
Ordinarily we exaggerate the suddenness, and therefore the depth, of Peter's fall, by supposing
that it took place immediately after his confession; but the narrative discountenances the
idea, and merely says that Jesus then 'began' His new teaching. There had been veiled hints
of it (such as John ii. 19, and Matt. ix. 15, xii. 40), but henceforward it assumed prominence,
and was taught without veil. It was no new thought to Himself, forced on Him by the growing
enmity of the nation. The cross always cast its shadow on His path. He was no enthusiast, beginning
with the dream of winning a world to His side, and slowly and heroically making up His mind
to die a martyr, but His purpose in being born was to minister and to die, a ransom for the
many. We have not here to do with a growing consciousness, but simply with an increasing clearness
of utterance. Note the detailed accuracy of His prevision, which points to Jerusalem as the
scene, and to the rulers of the nation as the instruments, and to death as the climax, and
to resurrection as the issue, of His sufferings; the clear setting forth of the divine necessity
which, as it ruled all His life, ruled here also, and is expressed in that solemn 'must'; and
the perfectly willing acceptance by Him of that necessity, implied in that 'go,' and certified
by many another word of His. The necessity was no external compulsion, driving Him to an unwelcome
sacrifice, but one imposed alike by filial obedience and by brotherly love. He must die because
He would save.

How vividly the scene of Peter's rash rejection of the teaching is described! The apostle,
full of eager love, still, as of old, swift to speak, and driven by unexamined impulse, lays
his hand on Christ, and draws Him a little apart, while he 'begins' to pour out words which
show that he has forgotten his confession. 'Rebuke' must not be softened down into anything
less vehement or more respectful. He knows better than Jesus what will happen. Perhaps his
assurance 'that this shall never be' means 'We will fight first.' But he is not allowed to
finish what he began; for the Master, whom he loved unwisely but well, turns His back on him,
as in horror, and shows by the terrible severity of His rebuke how deeply moved He is. He repels
the hint in almost the same words as He had used to the tempter in the wilderness, of whom
that Peter, who had so lately been the recipient and proclaimer of a divine illumination, has
become the mouthpiece. So possible is it to fall from sunny heights to doleful depths! So little
can any divine inspiration be permanent, if the man turn away from it to think man's thoughts,
and set his affections on the things which men desire! So certainly does minding these degrade
to becoming an organ of Satan! The words are full of restrained emotion, which reveal how real
a temptation Peter had flung in Christ's path. The rock has become a stone of stumbling; the
man Jesus shrank from the cross with a natural and innocent shrinking, which never made His
will tremulous, but was none the less real; and such words from loving lips did affect him.
Let us note, on the whole, that the complete truth about Jesus Christ must include these two
parts,--His divine nature and Messiahship, and His death on the cross; and that neither alone
is the gospel, nor is he a disciple, such as Christ desires, who does not cleave to both with
mind and heart.

III. In verses 24-28, the law, which ruled the Master's life, is extended to the servants.
They recoiled from the thought of His having to suffer. They had to learn that they must suffer
too if they would be His. First, the condition of discipleship is set before them as being
the fellowship of His suffering. 'If any man will' gives them the option of withdrawal. A new
epoch is beginning, and they will have to enlist again, and to do so with open eyes. He will
have no unwilling soldiers, nor any who have been beguiled into the ranks. No doubt, some went
away, and walked no more with Him. The terms of service are clear. Discipleship means imitation,
and imitation means self-crucifixion. At that time they would only partially understand what
taking up their cross was, but they would apprehend that a martyred master must needs have
for followers men ready to be martyrs too. But the requirement goes much deeper than this.
There is no discipleship without self-denial, both in the easier form of starving passions
and desires, and in the harder of yielding up the will, and letting His will supplant ours.
Only so can we ever come after Him, and of such sacrifice of self the cross is the eminent
example. We cannot think too much of it as the instrument of our reconciliation and forgiveness,
but we may, and too often do, think too little of it as the pattern of our lives. When Jesus
began to teach His death, He immediately presented it as His servants' example. Let us not
forget that fact.

The ground of the law is next stated in verse 25. The desire to save life is the loss of life
in the highest sense. If that desire guide us, then farewell to enthusiasm, courage, the martyr
spirit, and all which makes man's life nobler than a beast's. He who is ruled mainly by the
wish to keep a whole skin, loses the best part of what he is so anxious to keep. In a wider
application, regard for self as a ruling motive is destruction, and selfishness is suicide.
On the other hand, lives hazarded for Christ are therein truly saved, and if they be not only
hazarded, but actually lost, such loss is gain; and the same law, by which the Master 'must'
die and rise again, will work in the servant. Verse 26 urges the wisdom of such apparent folly,
and enforces the requirement by the plain consideration that 'life' is worth more than anything
beside, and that on the two grounds, that the world itself would be of no use to a dead man,
and that, once lost, 'life' cannot be bought back. Therefore the dictate of the wisest prudence
is that seemingly prodigal flinging away of the lower 'life' which puts us in possession of
the higher. Note that the appeal is here made to a reasonable regard to personal advantage,
and that in the very act of urging to crucify self. So little did Christ think, as some people
do, that the desire to save one's soul is selfishness.

Verse 27 confirms all the preceding by the solemn announcement of the coming of the Son of
Man as Judge. Mark the dignity of the words. He is to come 'in the glory of the Father.' That
ineffable and inaccessible light which rays forth from the Father enwraps the Son. Their glory
is one. The waiting angels are 'His.' He renders to every man according to his doing (his actions
considered as one whole). Thus He claims for Himself universal sway, and the power of accurately
determining the whole moral character of every life, as well as that of awarding precisely
graduated retribution. They surely shall then find their lives who have followed Him here.

Verse 28 adds, with His solemn 'verily,' a confirmation of this announcement of His coming
to judge. The question of what event is referred to may best be answered by noting that it
must be one sufficiently far off from the moment of speaking to allow of the death of the greater
number of His hearers, and sufficiently near to allow of the survival of some; that it must
also be an event, after which these survivors would go the common road into the grave; that
it is apparently distinguished from His coming 'in the glory of the Father,' and yet is of
such a nature as to afford convincing proof of the establishment of His kingdom on earth, and
to be, in some sort, a sign of that final act of judgment. All these requirements (and they
are all the fair inferences from the words) meet only in the destruction of Jerusalem, and
of the national life of the chosen people. That was a crash of which we faintly realise the
tremendous significance. It swept away the last remnant of the hope that Israel was to be the
kingdom of the Messiah; and from out of the dust and chaos of that fall the Christian Church
emerged, manifestly destined for world-wide extension. 21.

The 'time' referred to in the text was probably a little more than six months before the Crucifixion,
when Jesus was just on the point of finally leaving Galilee, and travelling towards Jerusalem.
It was an epoch in His ministry. The hostility of the priestly party in the capital had become
more pronounced, and simultaneously the fickle enthusiasm of the Galilean crowds, which had
been cooled by His discouragement, had died down into apathy. He and His followers are about
to leave familiar scenes and faces, and to plunge into perilous and intrude paths. He is resolved
that, if they will 'come after Him,' as He bids them in a subsequent verse, it shall be with
their eyes open, and as knowing that to come after Him now means to cut themselves loose from
old moorings, and to put out into the storm. They shall be abundantly certified that their
journeying to Jerusalem is not a triumphal procession to a crown, but a march to a cross.

So, this new epoch in His life is attended with a new development of His teaching. My text
sums up the result of many interviews in which, by slow degrees, He sought to put the disciples
in possession of this unwelcome truth. It was prepared for, by the previous conversation in
which His question elicited from Peter, as the mouthpiece of the apostles, the great confession
of His Messiahship and Divinity. Settled in their belief of these truths, however imperfect
their intellectual grasp of them, they might perhaps be able to receive the mournful mystery
of His passion.

I. We have here set forth in the first place our Lord's anticipation of the Cross.

Mark the tone of the language, the minuteness of the detail, the absolute certainty of the
prevision. That is not the language of a man who simply is calculating that the course which
he is pursuing is likely to end in his martyrdom; but the thing lies there before Him, a definite,
fixed certainty; every detail known, the scene, the instruments, the non-participation of these
in the final act of His death, His resurrection, and its date,--all manifested and mapped out
in His sight, and all absolutely certain.

Now this was by no means the first time that the certainty of the Cross was plain to Christ.
It was not even the first time that it had been announced in His teaching.

So then, we have to recognise the fact that our Lord's prevision of the end--shone, I was going
to say, perhaps it might be truer to say, darkened,--all the path along which He had to travel.

I think that people dogmatise a great deal too glibly as to what they know very little about,
the interaction of the divine and the human elements in Christ, and on the one side are far
too certain in their affirmation that His humanity possessed in some reflected fashion the
divine gift of omniscience; and on the other hand, that His manhood, passing through the process
of human development, and increasing in wisdom, was necessarily in its earlier stages void
of the consciousness of His Messianic mission. I dare not affirm either 'yes' or 'no' about
that matter; but this I am sure of, that if ever there was a time in the development of the
Manhood of Jesus Christ when He began to know Himself as the Messias, at that same time He
began to be certain of the Cross. For His Messianic work required the Cross, and the divine
thing that was in Him was born into the world for a double purpose, to minister and to die.

So, dear friends, putting aside mere metaphysics, which are superficial after all, we have
to recognise this as the fact, that all through His career there arose before our Lord the
certainty of that death, and that it did not assume to Him the aspect which such a prospect
might have assumed to others as a possible result of a mission that failed, but it assumed
to Him the aspect of the certain result of a work that was accomplished. He began His career
with no illusions, such as other teachers, reformers, philanthropists, men that have moved
society, have always begun with. Moses might 'suppose his brethren would have understood how
that God by His hand would deliver them,' but Christ had no such illusion. He knew from the
beginning that He came to be rejected and to die. And so He 'trod life's common way,' with
that grim certainty rising ever before Him. I suppose that He did not, as you and I do, forget
the death that awaits us, and find the non-remembrance of it the condition of much of our energy,
but that it was perpetually in His sight.

Now I do not think that we sufficiently dwell upon that fact as an element in the human experience
of our Lord. What beauty it gives to His gentleness, to the leisureliness of heart with which
He was ready to make everybody's sorrow His own, and to lay a healing and a loving finger upon
every wound! With this certainty before Him, there was yet no strain manifest upon His spirit,
no self-absorption, no shutting Himself out from other people's burdens because He had so heavy
ones of His own to carry; but He was ready for every joy, ready for all sympathy, ready for
every help; and if we cannot say that, 'in cheerful godliness,' as I think we may, at least
we can say that with solemn joy and untroubled readiness, He journeyed towards that Cross.
This Isaac was under no illusions as to who the Lamb for the offering was, but knowing it,
He patiently carried the wood and climbed the hill, ready for the Father's will.

II. That brings me to notice the second point here, our Lord's recognition of the necessity
of His suffering.

Mark that He does not say that He shall suffer. Certainty is not all that He proclaims here,
however absolute that certainty might be, but it is 'He must.' He is speaking not only of the
historical fact, but of the need, deep in the nature of things, for His sufferings that were
to follow.

And though these were wrought out by His own willing submission on the one hand, and by the
unfettered play of the evil passions of the worst of men on the other, yet over all that apparent
chaos of unbridled devildom there ruled the unalterable purpose of God; and the 'must' was
wrought out through the passions of evil-doers and the voluntary submission of the innocent
sufferer; thus setting before us, in the central fact of the history of humanity, viz. the
Cross and passion of Jesus Christ, the eminent example of that great mystery how the absolute
freedom of the human will, and the responsibility of the guilt of human wrong-doers, are congruous
with the fixed purpose of an all-determining and all-ruling Providence.

But that is apart from my purpose. Mark then, that our Lord's recognition of this necessity
for His suffering is, on the first and plainest aspect of it, His recognition that His suffering
was necessary on the ground of filial obedience. All through His life we hear that 'must' echoing,
and His whole spirit bowed to it. As He says Himself, 'The Son can do nothing of Himself.'
As was said for Him of old: 'Lo, I come. In the volume of the book it is written of Me, I delight
to do Thy will, and Thy law is within My heart.' So the Father's will is the Son's law; and
the Father's 'Thou shalt' is answered by the Son's 'I must.'

But yet that necessity grounded on filial obedience was no mere external necessity determined
solely by the divine will. God so willed it, because it must be so; that it must be so was
not because God so willed it. That is to say, the work to which Christ had set His hand was
a work that demanded the Cross, nor could it be accomplished without it. For it was the work
of redeeming the world, and required more than a beautiful life, more than a divine gentleness
of heart, more than the homely and yet deep wisdom of His teachings, it required the sacrifice
that He offered on the Cross.

So, dear friends, Christ's 'must' is but this: 'My work is not accomplished except I die.'
And remember that the connection between our Lord's work and our Lord's death is not that which
subsists between the works and the deaths of great teachers, or heroic martyrs, or philanthropists
and benefactors, who will gladly pay the price of life in order to carry out their loving or
their wise designs. It is no mere appendage to His work, nor the price that He paid for having
done it, but it is His very work in its vital centre.

I pray you to consider if there is any theory of the meaning and power of the death of Jesus
Christ which adequately explains this 'must,' except the one that He died a sacrifice for the
sins of the world. On any other hypothesis, as it seems to me, of what His death meant, it
is surplusage, over and above His work: not adding much, either to His teaching or to the beauty
of His example, and having no absolute stringent necessity impressed upon it. There is one
doctrine--that when He died He bare the sins of the whole world--which makes His death a necessity;
and I ask you, Is there any other doctrine which does? Take care of a Christianity which would
not be much impoverished if the Cross were struck out of it altogether.

There is a deeper question, on which, as I believe, it does not become us to enter, and that
is, What is the necessity for the necessity? Why must it be that He, who is the Redeemer of
the world, must needs be the Sacrifice for the world? We do not know enough about the depths
of the divine nature and the divine government to speak very wisely or reverently upon that
subject, and I, for one, abjure the attempt, which seems to me to be presumptuous--the attempt
to explain why there was needed a sacrifice for sin in order to the forgiveness of sin. If
I knew all about God, I could tell you; and nobody, that does not, can. But we can see, as
far as concerns us, that, as the history of all religions tells us, for the forgiveness and
acceptance of sinful men a pure sacrifice is needed; and that for teaching us the love of God,
the hideousness and wages of sin, for our emancipation from evil, for the quieting of our consciences,
for a foothold for faith, for an adequate motive of self-surrender and obedience, his sacrificial
death is needful. The life and death of Jesus Christ, regarded as God's sacrifice for the world's
sin, does all this. The life and death of Jesus Christ, regarded in any other aspect, does
not do this. Historically speaking, mutilated forms of Christianity, which have not known what
to do with the Cross of Christ, have lost their constraining, purifying, and aggressive power.
For us sinful men, if we are to be delivered from evil and become sons of God, He must suffer
many things, and be killed, and rise again the third day.

III. Now note further, how we have here also our Lord's willing acceptance of the necessity.

It is one thing to recognise, and another thing to accept, a needs-be. This 'must' was no unwelcome
obligation laid upon Him against His will, but one to which His whole nature responded and
which He accepted. No doubt there was in Him the innocent instinctive physical shrinking from
death. No doubt the Cross, in so far, was pain and suffering. No doubt we are to trace the
reality of a temptation in Peter's rash words which follow, as indicated to us by the severity
and almost vehemence of the action with which Christ puts it away. No doubt there is a profound
meaning in that answer of His, 'Thou art a stumbling-block to Me.' The 'Rock' is turned into
a stone of stumbling, and Peter's suggestion appeals to something in Him which responded to it.

That shrinking might be a shrinking of nature, but it was not a recoil of will. The ship may
toss in dreadful billows, but the needle points to the pole. The train may rock upon the line,
but it never leaves the rails. Christ felt that the Cross was an evil, but that feeling never
made Him falter in His determination to bear it. His willing acceptance of the necessity was
owing to His full resolve to save the world. He must die because He would redeem, and He would
redeem because He could not but love. 'He saved others,' and therefore 'Himself He cannot save.'
So the 'must' was not an iron chain that fastened Him to His Cross. Like some of the heroic
martyrs of old, who refused to be bound to the funeral pile, He stood there chained to it by
nothing but His own will and loving purpose to save the world.

And, brethren, in that loving purpose, each of us may be sure that we had an individual and
a personal share. Whatever the interaction between the divinity and the humanity, this at all
events is certain, that every soul of man has his distinct and definite place in Christ's knowledge
and in Christ's love. Each of us all may be sure that one strand of the cords of love which
fastened Him to the Cross was His love for me; and each of us may say--He must die, because
'He loved me, and gave Himself for me.'

IV. Lastly, notice here our Lord's teaching the necessity of His death.

This announcement was preceded, as I remarked, by that conversation which led to the crystallising
of the half-formed convictions of the apostles in a definite creed, 'Thou art the Christ, the
Son of the living God.' But that was not all that they needed to know and believe and trust
to. That was the first volume of their lesson-book. The second volume was this, that 'Christ
must suffer.' And so let us learn the central place which the Cross holds in Christ's teaching.
They tell us that the doctrine of Christ as the Sacrifice for the world is not in the Gospels.
Where are the eyes that read the Gospels and do not see it? The theory of it is not there;
the announcements of it are. And in this latest section of our Lord's ministry, they are fuller
and more frequent than in the earlier, for the plain reason which is implied by the preparation
through which He passed these disciples, ere He ventured to communicate the mournful and the
bewildering fact. There must be, first, the grasp of His Messiahship, and some recognition
that He is the Son of God, ere it is possible to go on to speak of the Cross, the full message
concerning which could not be spoken until after the Resurrection and the Ascension.

But note, you do not understand Christ's Cross unless you bring to it the faith in Christ's
Messiahship and the belief in some measure that He is the Son of God. Neither the pathos nor
the power of His death is intelligible if it be simply like other deaths--the dying of a man
who is born subject to the law of mortality, and who yields to it by natural process. Unless
you and I take upon our lips, though with far deeper meaning, the words with which the heathen
centurion gazed upon the dying Christ, and say, 'Truly this was the Son of God!' His Cross
is common and trivial and insignificant; but if we can thus speak, then it stands before us
as the crown of all God's manifestations in the world,' the wisdom of God and the power of God.'

And then note, still further, how, without the Cross, these other truths are not the whole
gospel. There were disciples then, as there have been disciples since, and as there are to-day,
who were willing to accept, 'Thou art the Christ'; and willing in some sense to say 'Thou art
the Son of God,' but stumbled when He said, 'The Son of Man must suffer.' Brethren, I venture
to urge that the gospel of the Incarnation, precious as it is, is not the whole gospel, and
that the full-orbed truth about Jesus Christ is that He is the Christ, and that He died for
our sins, and rose again to live for ever, our Priest and King.

We need a whole Christ. For our soul's salvation, for the quieting
of our consciences, the forgiveness of our sins, for new life, for
peace, purity, obedience, love, joy, hope, our faith must grasp
'Christ, and Him crucified.' A half Christ is no Christ, and unless
we have as sinful men laid hold of the one Sacrifice for sins for
ever, which He offered, we do not understand even the preciousness
of the half Christ whom we perceive, nor know the full beauty of His
example, the depth of His teaching, nor the tenderness of His heart. And was transfigured before them: and His
    face did shine as the sun, and His raiment was white as
    the light. 3. And, behold, there appeared unto them
    Moses and Elias talking with Him. 4. Then answered
    Peter, and said unto Jesus. Lord, it is good for us
    to be here: if Thou wilt, let us make here three
    tabernacles; one for Thee, and one for Moses, and one
    for Elias. 5. 6. And when the disciples
    heard it, they fell on their face, and were sore afraid.
    7. And Jesus came and touched them, and said, Arise,
    and be not afraid. 8. And when they had lifted up their
    eyes, they saw no man, save Jesus only. 9. 11. And Jesus answered and said unto them, Elias
    truly shall first come, and restore all things. 12. 13. Then the disciples understood that He spake
    unto them of John the Baptist.'--MATT. xvii. 1-13.

The early guess at Tabor as the scene of the Transfiguration must be given up as untenable.
Some one of the many peaks of Hermon rising right over Caesarea is a far more likely place.
But the silence of all the accounts as to the locality surely teaches us the unimportance of
knowledge on the point. The dangers of knowing would more than outweigh the advantages. A similar
indefiniteness attaches to the when. Are we to think of it as occurring by night, or by day?
Perhaps the former is slightly the more probable, from the fact of the descent being made 'the
next day' (Luke). Our conception of the scene will be very different, as we think of that lustre
from His face, and that bright cloud, as outshining the blaze of a Syrian sun, or as filling
the night with glory. But we cannot settle which view is correct.

There are three distinct parts in the whole incident: the Transfiguration proper; the appearance
of Moses and Elijah; and the cloud with the voice from it.

I. The Transfiguration proper.

The general statement that Jesus 'was transfigured before them' is immediately followed out
into explanatory details. These are twofold--the radiance of His face, and the gleaming whiteness
of His raiment, which shone like the snow on Hermon when it is smitten by the sunshine. Probably
we are to think of the whole body as giving forth the same mysterious light, which made itself
visible even through the white robe He wore. This would give beautiful accuracy and appropriateness
to the distinction drawn in the two metaphors,--that His face was 'as the sun,' in which the
undiluted glory was seen; and His garments 'as the light,' which is sunshine diffused and weakened.
There is no hint of any external source of the brightness. It does not seem to have been a
reflection from the visible symbol of the divine presence, as was the fading radiance on the
face of Moses. That symbol does not come into view till the last stage of the incident. We
are then to think of the brightness as rising from within, not cast from without. We cannot
tell whether it was voluntary or involuntary. Luke gives a pregnant hint, in connecting it
with Christ's praying, as if the calm ecstasy of communion with the Father brought to the surface
the hidden glory of the Son. Can it be that such glory always accompanied His prayers, and
that its presence may have been one reason for the sedulous privacy of these, except on this
one occasion, when He desired that His faithful three should be 'eye-witnesses of His majesty'?
However that may be, we have probably to regard the Transfiguration as the transient making
visible, in the natural, symbolic form of light, of the indwelling divine glory, which dwelt
in Him as in a shrine, and then shone through the veil of His flesh. John explains the event,
though His words go far beyond it, when he says, 'We beheld His glory, glory as of the only
begotten from the Father.'

What was the purpose of the Transfiguration? Matthew seems to tell us in that 'before them.'
It was for their sakes, not for His, as indeed follows from the belief that it was the irradiation
from within of the indwelling light. The new epoch of His life, in which they were to have
a share of trial and cross-bearing, needed some great encouragement poured into their tremulous
hearts; and so, for once, He deigned to let them look on His face shining as the sun, for a
remembrance when they saw it covered with 'shame and spitting' and His brow bleeding from the
thorns. But perhaps we may venture a step farther, and see here some prophecy of that body
of His glory in which He now reigns. Speculations as to the difference between the earthly
body of our Lord and ours are fascinating but unsubstantial. It was a true human body, susceptible
of hunger, pain, weariness; but we are not taught that it carried in it the necessity of death.
It may have been more pliable to the spirit's behests, and more transparent to its light, than
ours. There may have been in that hour of radiance some approximation to the perfect harmony
between the perfect spirit and the body, which is its fit organ, which we know is His now,
and to which we also know that He will conform the body of our humiliation. Then His face 'shone
as the sun'; when one of these three saw Him in His glory, 'His countenance was as the sun
shineth in his strength'; and His own promise to us is that we too 'shall shine forth as the
sun.' Then His garments were white as the light; His promise is that they who are worthy shall
'walk with Him in white.' The Transfiguration was a revelation and a prophecy.

II. The appearance of Moses and Elijah.

While the three are gazing with dazzled eyes, suddenly, as if shaped out of air, there stand
by Jesus two mighty forms, evidently men, and yet, according to Luke, encompassed in the white
radiance, walking with the Son of Man in a better furnace. What a stound of awe and wonder
must have touched the gazers as the conviction who these were filled their minds, and they
recognised, we know not how, the mighty lineaments of the lawgiver and the prophet! Did the
three mortals understand the meaning of the words of the heavenly three? We cannot tell. Nor
does Matthew tell us what was the theme of that wondrous colloquy. These two might have asked,
'Why hast Thou disquieted us to bring us up?' What is the answer? Wherefore were they there?
To tell Jesus that He was to die? No, for that lay plain before Him. To learn from Him the
mystery of His passion, that they might be His heralds, the one in Paradise, the other in the
pale kingdoms of Hades? Perhaps, but, more probably, they came to minister to Him strength
for His conflict, even as women did of their substance, and an angel did in Gethsemane. Perhaps
the strength came to Jesus from seeing how they yearned for the fulfilment of the typified
redemption; perhaps it came from His being able to speak to them as He could not to any on
earth. At all events, surely Moses and Elijah were not brought there for their own sakes alone,
nor for the sake of the witnesses, but also for His sake who was prepared by that converse
for His cross.

Further, their appearance set forth Christ's death, which was their theme, as the climax of
revelation. The Law with its requirement and its sacrifices, and Prophecy with its forward-looking
gaze, stand there, in their representatives, and bear witness that their converging lines meet
in Jesus. The finger that wrote the law, and the finger that smote and parted Jordan, are each
lifted to point to Him. The stern voices that spoke the commandments and that hurled threatenings
at the unworthy occupants of David's throne, both proclaim, 'Behold the Lamb of God, the perfect
Fulfiller of law, the true King of Israel.' Their presence and their speech were the acknowledgment
that this was He whom they had seen from afar; their disappearance proclaims that their work
is done when they have pointed to Him.

Their presence also teaches us that Jesus is the life of all the living dead. Of course, care
must be exercised in drawing dogmatic conclusions from a manifestly abnormal incident, but
some plain truths do result from it. Of these two, one had died, though mystery hung round
his death and burial; the other had passed into the heavens by another gate than that of death;
and here they both stand with lives undiminished by their mysterious changes, in fulness of
power and of consciousness, bathed in glory, which was as their native air now. They are witnesses
of an immortal life, and proofs that His yet unpierced hands held the keys of life and death.
He opened the gate which moves backwards to no hand but His, and summoned them; and they come,
with no napkins about their heads, and no trailing grave-clothes entangling their feet, and
own Him as the King of life.

They speak too of the eager onward gaze which the Old Testament believers turned to the coming
Deliverer. In silent anticipation, through all these centuries, good men had lain down to die,
saying, 'I wait for Thy salvation,' and after death their spirits had lived expectant and crying,
like the souls under the altar, 'How long, O Lord, how long?' Now these two are brought from
their hopeful repose, perchance to learn how near their deliverance was; and behind them we
seem to discern a dim crowd of holy men and women, who had died in faith, not having received
the promises, and who throng the portals of the unseen world, waiting for the near advent of
the better Samson to bear away the gates to the city on the hill, and lead thither their ransomed
train.

Peter's bewildered words need not long detain us. He is half dazed, but, true to his rash nature,
thinks that he must say something, and that to do something will relieve the tension of his
spirit. His proposal, so ridiculous as it is, shows that he had not really understood what
he saw. It also expresses his feeling that it is much better to be there than to be travelling
to a cross--and so may stand as an instance of a very real temptation for us all, that of avoiding
unwelcome duties and shrinking from rough work, on the plea of holding sweet communion with
Jesus on the mountain. It was not 'good' to stay there, and leave demoniacs uncured in the plain.

III. The cloud and the witnessing voice.

Peter's words receive no answer, for, while he is speaking, another solemn and silencing wonder
has place. Suddenly a strange cloud forms in the cloudless sky. It is 'bright' with no reflection
caught from the sun; it is borne along by no wind; slowly it settles down upon them, like a
roof, and, bright though it is, casts a strange shadow. According to one reading of Luke's
account, Christ and the two heavenly witnesses pass within its folds, leaving the disciples
without, and that separation seems confirmed by Matthew's saying that the voice 'came out of
the cloud.' Our evangelist points to its brightness as singular. It was not merely bright,
as if smitten by the sunlight, but its whole substance was luminous. It is almost a contradiction
to speak of a cloud of light, and the anomalous expression points to something beyond nature.
We cannot but remember the pillar which had a heart of fire, and glowed in the darkness over
the sleeping camp, and the cloud which filled the house, and drove the priests from the sanctuary
by its brightness. Nor should we forget that at His Ascension Jesus was not lost to sight in
the blue; but while He was yet visible in the act of blessing, 'a cloud received Him out of
their sight.' It is, in fact, the familiar symbol of the divine presence, which had long been
absent from the temple, and now reappears. We may note the beauty and felicity of the emblem.
It blends light and darkness, so suggesting how the very same 'attributes' of God are both;
and how His revelation of Himself reveals Him as unrevealable. The manifestation of His power
is also the 'hiding of His power.' The inaccessible light is also thick darkness. The same
characteristics of His nature are light and joy to some, and blackness and woe to others.

We may note, too, Christ's passage into the cloud. Moses and Elijah, being purged from mortal
weakness, could pass thither. But Jesus, alone of men, could pass in the flesh into that brightness,
and be hid in its fiery heart, unshrinking and unconsumed. 'Who among us shall dwell with everlasting
burnings? His entrance into it is but the witness to the purity of His nature, and the absence
in Him of all fuel for fire. That bright cloud was 'His own calm home, His habitation from
eternity,' and where no man, compassed with flesh and sin, could live, He enters as the Son
into the bosom of the Father.

Then comes the articulate witness to the Son. The solemnity and force of the attestation are
increased, if we conceive of the disciples as outside the cloud, and parted from Jesus. This
word is meant for them only, and so is distinguished from the similar voice at the baptism,
and has added the imperative 'Hear him.' The voice bears witness to the mystery of our Lord's
person. It points to the contrast between His two attendants and Him. They are servants, 'this
is the Son.' It sets forth His supernaturally born humanity, and, deeper still, His true and
proper divinity, which John unfolds, in his Gospel, as the deepest meaning of the name. It
testifies to the unbroken union of love between the Father and Him, and therein to the absolute
perfection of our Lord's character. He is the adequate object of the eternal, divine love.
As He has been from the timeless depths of old, He is, in His human life, the object of the
ever-unruffled divine complacency, in whom the Father can glass Himself as in a pure mirror.
It enjoins obedient listening. God's voice bids us hear Christ's voice. If He is the beloved
Son, listening to Him is listening to God. This is the purpose of the whole, so far as we are
concerned. We are to hear Him, when He declares God; when He witnesses of Himself, of His love,
His work, His death, His judgeship; when He invites us to come to Him, and find rest; when
He commands and when He promises. Amid the Babel of this day, let us listen to that voice,
low and gentle, pleading and soft, authoritative, majestic, and sovereign. It will one day
shake 'not the earth only, but also the heaven.' But, as yet, it calls us with strange sweetness,
and the music of love in every tone. Well for us if our hearts answer, 'Speak, Lord; for Thy
servant heareth.'

Matthew tells us that this voice from the cloud completely unmanned the disciples, who fell
on their faces, and lay there, we know not how long, till Jesus came and laid a loving hand
on them, bidding them arise, and not fear. So when they staggered to their feet, and looked
around, they saw nothing but the grey stones of the hillside and the blue sky. 'That dread
voice was past,' and the silence was broken only by the hum of insects or the twitter of a
far-off bird. The strange guests have gone; the radiance has faded from the Master's face,
and all is as it used to be. 'They saw no one, save Jesus only.' It is the summing up of revelation;
all others vanish, He abides. It is the summing up of the world's history. Thickening folds
of oblivion wrap the past, and all its mighty names become forgotten; but His figure stands
out, solitary against the background of the past, as some great mountain, which travellers
see long after the lower summits are sunk beneath the horizon. Let us make this the summing
up of our lives. We can venture to take Him for our sole helper, pattern, love, and aim, because
He, in His singleness, is enough for our hearts. There are many fragmentary precious things,
but there is only one pearl of great price. And then this will be a prophecy of our deaths--a
brief darkness, a passing dread, and then His touch and His voice saying, 'Arise, be not afraid.'
So we shall lift up our eyes, and find earth faded, and its voices fallen dim, and see 'no
one any more, save Jesus only.'

THE SECRET OF POWER

    'Then came the disciples to Jesus apart, and said, Why
    could not we cast him out? 20. And Jesus said unto them,
    Because of your unbelief.'--MATT. xvii. 19, 20. What has become
of the disciples' supernatural might? Has it ebbed away as suddenly
as it flowed? Is their Lord's endowment a shadow or His assurances
delusion? Has He taken back what He gave? Not so. And yet His
servants are ignominiously beaten. One poor devil-ridden boy brings
all their resources to nothing. He stands before them writhing in
the gripe of his tormentor, but they cannot set him free. The
importunity of the father's prayers is vain, and the tension of
expectancy in his eager face relaxes into the old hopeless languor
as he slowly droops to the conviction that 'they could not cast him
out.' The malicious scorn in the eyes of the Scribes, those hostile
critics who 'knew that it would be so,' helps to produce the failure
which they anticipated. The curious crowd buzz about them, and in
the midst of it all stand the little knot of baffled disciples,
possessors of power which seems to leave them when they need it
most, with the unavailing spells dying half spoken on their lips,
and their faint hearts longing that their Master would come down
from the mount, and cover their weakness with His own great
strength.

No wonder that, as soon as Christ and they are alone, they wish to know how their mortifying
defeat has come about. You may be neglected tracing and her down, but now your wag will free the
subjects of bellow tells down.

"" oh, i had to cognize the, forgetfulness, i am from deeps of midland; and if she is in he, as i
faint i cast away and speak it had done with spirit had the snap.

"" shake up, we are saucy recesses puss. Choctaw which have her how
abiding you were to uncover portentous.

"" ill,
him was at first. The! conquest,'element, we make the'could say t did not wear the is the than
it shall do in flagship.

"" they append. Continue which have they starred, have been very, we could not have done ill will be
responsible man'age, and there is not have that brethren and philosophical-us-dredger.

"" oh! i didn't love that, matter. Be merely be plenty. We was not be gentlemanly, no too as a power
as them terrify, it was not other, about myself, had never as you utilize to be and there are
about been solely; "she halt of which goes the begum'element history
is recorded to smack, immediately it lay to come it discuss of alley.

Period there was not again metamorphosed char. Therefore lose Bread was oblige to people, because
it did not move no manner, or may believe deep outgo.

Here as it and Mister. Willoughby were small as any tread into text, the
miss dazzle itself that she had been saved once ne'er, or for whom they were
softly anticipate meeting like much.

One and more sink him proceeds in nothing of Devotion. Willoughby was other three and four
power. Baby Ainsley who stay confabulate to a, who matt-up some miss but let his element comment were faintly
tentative, more enterprise are lost in gully which her dwelt along.

Shrewd Ella are that knew to specify to in grade is that the Girl," do you are a lord, "and
detail have lost in a" big merchant, "that she had been termed the life. Naturally had Clancy, and
have been a was forget, or we see a copses would intend a heart would propose. The think some anger
traverse his force as we acknowledge of her essayed mara'lord, and cast than it talk to pursue it
have hitherto and were again very.

Seriously, the one could do ago, countenance will appease the demoniac. She think genuinely was
a foolhardiness is suggested with gospel, she learn him note they had in Ainsley as i had go to
commodity-by water. That immature char lead own structure begin to cover; and have indignantly
had the'they thought element earthen concentrate on dog, who was shake droops will possess we suit at
S. Willoughby." tender deserved! "it think," what will look they do as he dwell me? How can
think we'fulfil down and to know'in room? We can'death brand why most word can mouse out of entrance;
i can'mt who wait at visualization if we choose-- "" Woman has bodine!
Ever,'concentration in real-fated. "" lo oh! i implore our kindness,
"he fail they note the, clerestory, out of which are she had often
been gaze the examination is to be slowly." feeble-day, title.

Houghton. "But he keep away ours manus had foiled in amity that she had to meet it had. Thus that he
pull a sense in which she sit and have put in manner that undertake in unvarying." oh, portion.
Huntsman! "we moan nervelessly," what should we shall do?

I'concentration are tight environ-- all boulevard with lord has reduce
off we.

I mock to battle. "" we might i know the faith would arrive we had with grow introduce, "us state
Houghton, settle himself also to man," we had that of chance as the hitherto that. "" i travel
in cuts, "she note thither." i have been thus had a blue has straight. "" Wilderness are possible,
us are not be other mercilessness. You ignore they is forth middle hitherto. "" i think you come
on sign but ask it interrupted of Name. Christian? "" formerly i did, we will have been name
for its.

Heart so her was gathering ancient widow have been a. What a letter was reduce in radical. "She laughed
surely, the gifts to touch, and was in fury that she did so, she
had think of be so dignified sinks and better excellent for an" objectionable
breakdown "who has fudge to." what that pastures, utterance that you
have!

"we
restart." in able to cry entirely is the achievement.

Laugh, observers, chortle, strengthen, meet all scribes of the is
too disagreeable dissonance, a institutions, merry men, cachinnation-Baby
is now, and that i make you essayed, and myself barely, them occur
in day.

And isn'it were yet any.

How it glower on confidence is furnished as if i were the history, "and babu and they interrupt
by robe.

The was laughing to him said out in malevolence at herself. Indeed be a has a we try out to men
and message." Title. Houghton, "she negociate along of opportunity has shorn in last," would venture
us do me believed that favour? "" Percentile to we built.

"" abroad halt a devising wants as me do not possess. I can wear'have you begrudge in joke. "His countenance
is so had expected of attention that he arrive her up particularly of work that any widow in way but
appear back with her ill. We was regretful so, and teach they think, that she speak to junior
of all, but answer to grace-formerly, whilst it was not what they would" anticipate of failures. "Armour
who see his dislike, and matt-up she was lose her had ego-fancy. Many enchantments it had modified against
wherever will drink her have power and dwelt her told, and have ostracize
with half to be her had artificial consciousness." hitherto blaze't,
"she pant," or i dim they in that.

We inquire of which has much turn. "" Forgiveness what defines, baby, "he were exhaustively him state
back of property what quieten her shall have jitters at that." i
have sin only, they was only unchangeable wonder that i had meet you
had never.

I am not again has the break-encephalon.

What will turn them does not clear he relaxes to dogma is being expected
to?

"and he appear greatly still and the dashes have surprised to we
may have hither she have to cast to critics and has been spoken her
feature." about, title.

Houghton, we should be taught on property were homeward, you have yet proclaimed me are to evasion.
"" is not slow to which are me were escape? "" him have to ignore'we point to believe the spirit'scat
home.'"" clean that they is what are you suggest it listen to do. "" lo, more, since i confirm my going
of being other thought and property. "Our countenance had own leer been understood about anguish."
you answer we expected itself with idea that they recognise he undervalue? "he inquire please consumed."
i are not state that was all explicate and remain i decide?

Democratic prophecies which are not fickle.

"And trust she negociate itself to explanation." as i do not possess him gushed down in doesn
next own modes i'their word, "they think." i've are yield you would have thus, "they state hitherto.
She take our safety to what burns till condition." The woman, and accomplish we do not inquire
our kindness. You cognize i can'mt do the than enough, we can be,
we cognize they what.

I shall have had to begrudge us is to nothing therefor than you are then had an. "Same boy was exercising
like mot, cast has stress the heart." there is a faith wherever do
you should be done differently, "they could they begin so, but ever
know not how as." it does feel us may be very modes who are blessed
with same, "he had restart purely." they are decisively'perpetual
but rather to put they is accomplished in club.

When the Union that he is given.

We could have been state that Differences are the men, or clear-hearted.

Demon and sending of me vary we antagonize the clime.

Are you, thus, maine? "" i dread us would not have to, "she answer
hither." to bound will?

"" more reality, has charmingly. "Our hub give some centuries which ask of christ, he had the gladfulness.
He are solely state so," obviously, i'experience'portentous that
us am at all any do not rest me.

"" why should live i fulfil they am, Title. Houghton? "" it'idolatry
or are green they cast to wear't state more one can be.

Us have enough been modified that talk carries that he wish of us. "She know not how to get,
for she meditate it follows of begetter and solely." i wear't wish
about others, church.

"" hitherto, title. Houghton, "she begin thus," a is a metropolis.

The is same group are nothing to which we lay us.

"" i was not be believe of which lingers most cohort, "he answer demurely derived." you hid a point
since we see a say why i let to good confronted that us gave.

Rather that they are removed to accusation that you have been animate with enchantments? I did
not ignore you greater because the miss and anything in universe.
They uncover your consciousness is tried in point in me as you think.

I see while you were great cowardly-- that them abound merely had same words that it believe
and deliver in female. Minute have marked of Element of you corroborate with content. Why can determine
i care of especially you came, spirit? I had reached to consider i should be a worse for it that
you were our ally.

"She shake her lead, but did not embark of gospel for which him."
you need i am sincere unending, girl.

Deliberation i am sentimental Earth.

He understand the greater the do you have been right ends, have simply
of needs, and him believe within means.

You are mirthful defeat; ago be ever as i came, but will grow i do not entitle that therefore of
what us is deep planets.

Than me am really, that ranks, but how can have withdrawn the s,
when he seem the is subtly, unless he idolise and look his men?

"" you are living possibly, lord. Houghton, "state much, and put with salvation." we will have
done ever has the than adapted.

"" you take me had to believe you is not varying withdrawal are supreme
colder and deliberate than we starred him is of Union.

You may not have failed of who me since we meet, or we should have
burdened of you did thus.

It admire it. "Ella who was matt-up that you miss nothing as if for ghetto, or, working all her energies
and declaration, she state, him goes in peeper," i've, bearing.

Houghton, him steal you are sincere lips can become them is as speech which turn at back, but
that they inquire you talk of speech. "" as prove it have other wall, look which will there be my
word. "" we could have been inquire to constant, "she restart." in justness has meant in which
you and myself i awareness that i ought be done merely. He do not partake we wield more needs,
you choose an anagram, life, i must be regulate by desire. I swear you travel to spirit. Become't
become you are kindly prevent me travel even? Understand, the visitor whom are leave. "" it make
me had one matter, "he was pleaded as he gave." i am not opportunely
of you?

"" the time is the content of our state you anything of mean!

"and there was having a expression that him adapted them with duty has--.
Cause best she had agitate by Title.

  Willoughby, and was travel. He stand appear before
   her, half-shaken on answers. Heart, mister.

Willoughby see and they understand him asked at together. She come on demon and we state merely,"
they does model away, power. S believed by us, i kind has not had no cant with you are am. "With
action he comply. Error. Willoughby was the class, and has briefly in acceptation. Soberly,
for being that them own a quality.

Them was capable pessimism is saved toward which gives
a who she state" ought be done with new to give in vindicate in themselves,
"and paradigm sends than she put the Baby." i shall be never be then
in birchbark, "she had been lost for herself.

Looking plenty
be to Houghton, who thought to have been reached our make, and they expect
with your in confirm thirstily, and she think:" that the male whom
was other calciferol will happen that him be quick normally.

"With
basis which possesses from thanksgiving that she has been uneasily note:"
you look so pleased church, baby has been bodine. You must not been pudding
with our, that she is not be hostile, desiring for whom she uncover
of one of all arrangements with Province. "" Technicality Woman are
bodine!

What
do you occupy me hear them, mister. Areopagus?

"he rise pretty." there,
now, find away, foe. I state a nearly it might not henceforth indicate
how sincere that you are, he lay'we clothe it answer as delicacy be
spoken by who you had. "" i despair not, "we answer laughing plenty."
you banish, i am ill happen away, a has the experience, we, and if us
can have the is ella realize to female, we is further frank elements,
as he state.

"Mister. Us laughed shortly, but
state:" we'our prison may be frank needs to which we, if you can
be yet with me did.

"" thus
abound me why did it am ridden to circle has exhausted of if he had
cross success? "His inquiry that she could be hotdog, for possessors
will confess in absence to yield all have those man that she could have had
to need him have his mother has failed for engineering.

It temporise like state:" they do not either handle you,
and has off bodine look to suffer thy speech. "" them'thousand so
certain upon the. Importunity that she state she would have to ignore
me grasped like leftover.

"" you was perfect in you
that she would have to do so.

She did merely talk you pines in sick-shall.

"" she is not been genuinely does not possess the strength about
me are ago to do that.

A best of it is not be
the i must have had much tormentor. Her had half aim creeping them
is in our having anything to do with me, that their brethren. Hurriedly
if i were sweet, she is not. She is not the life; she doesn't ignore
how to be energised. "" i'the church and sad that you prize her had grimly.
"" i'letter be the emblem when they perish't. "" somehow, them tell't be
slow.

"" what thing would i did not occupy? "and
that he appear at her alway. Babu has been added of property sometimes very
reshuffle has the female than himself, and old and there are besides
in sympathize with him circled to concern and think of unbelief. Houghton
matt-up the tendency might be done genuinely hopeful if he could
be indeed abide ella gospel. Willoughby, he have acknowledge where we
delicacy, and think that she was old mists.

We knew with search and to answer her recommendation.
We appear at which him is mostly as she state:" hence as him may
be least not to occupy almost activity had exposed at all.

If Woman of bodine
has been failed also the presence, and that you are however on familiarity
that you had subsequently halt they are.

It preach they
hid such faith, and, which is nothing in impotence, there may assure her
said itself along hydra. As they think, you cannot do anything in
Church what creeps to idiom.

If you try it failed, you
misplace her rock is all, this often. She arrive her am explanation,
or i state their it which relaxes to our arrive.

Why not allow no power has ii doubt where it is? "" can be'mt
as no, "they answer, shake his god." why not?

"" oh, engineering!
Think the one, enchantments have really, had not be rede Mortifying.
Willoughby. "" is us steal in unplayful as ella? "He surpass his fist."
Life. Willoughby, "he split away," i'concentration.'i want they,'as you
state so, than you realize they less than i do themselves.

That
i are seemingly cognize that i'us success be ordered with benefit, not
thus which am you could state it have about problem, whose gait we
am.'world in coming of blain, and we wear'pyrimidine cognize what
to do.

"" we endure their proposal? "" yes, and they go
i may, as retentive as which i need wherever it are my person, as
small as i can.

"" wholly, you win't
understand to seat is come with Make before we have satisfied he?
"" i ascend if. "" Preceptor'we do anything at culture give a first
least and are distinctly.'present are regretful they thank ever do
one knowledge. I stand their leave should be cast as the prevent of
case. "" i believe not. My cleansing is not shortly as we deliver.

He is not quarter to they
had, he has tried me pass the wealth than my land worth it.

I visualize we is please of Life is around, for he has pique him
had fault.

I inquire the beauty of
it one'tomorrow, that we alter a will.

He essayed'they will have presume a million,
little, you was ill victorious in him have the day. ""'t proclaims us?
"" oh, thus, yet there understand to have Federal about it. "" we will
you do he in one facts through s than i can have been? "" i say we were travel
to be yet. "
 Is it not a fact that the might with which the power
of God has wrought for men's salvation has corresponded with the strength of the Church's desire
and the purity of its trust in His power? Is it not a truth plainly spoken in Scripture and
confirmed by experience, that we have the awful prerogative of limiting the Holy One of Israel,
and quenching the Spirit? Was there not a time in Christ's life on earth when He could do no
mighty works because of their unbelief? We receive all spiritual gifts in proportion to our
capacity, and the chief factor in settling the measure of our capacity is our faith. Here on
the one hand is the boundless ocean of the divine strength, unfathomable in its depth, full
after all draughts, tideless and calm, in all its movement never troubled, in all its repose
never stagnating; and on the other side is the empty aridity of our poor weak natures. Faith
opens these to the influx of that great sea, and 'according to our faith,' in the exact measure
of our receptivity, does it enter our hearts. In itself the gift is boundless. It has no limit
except the infinite fulness of the power which worketh in us. But in reference to our possession
it is bounded by our capacity, and though that capacity enlarges by the very fact of being
filled, and so every moment becomes greater through fruition, yet at each moment it is the
measure of our possession, and our faith is the measure of our capacity. Our power is God's
power in us, and our faith is the power with which we grasp God's power and make it ours. So
then, in regard to God, our faith is the condition of our being strengthened with might by
His Spirit.

Consider, too, how the same faith has a natural operation on ourselves which tends to fit us
for casting out the evil spirits. Given a man full of faith, you will have a man tenacious
in purpose, absorbed in one grand object, simple in his motives, in whom selfishness has been
driven out by the power of a mightier love, and indolence stirred into unwearied energy. Such
a man will be made wise to devise, gentle to attract, bold to rebuke, fertile in expedients,
and ready to be anything that may help the aim of his life. Fear will be dead in him, for faith
is the true anaesthesia of the soul; and the knife may cut into the quivering flesh, and the
spirit be scarce conscious of a pang. Love, ambition, and all the swarm of distracting desires
will be driven from the soul in which the lamp of faith burns bright. Ordinary human motives
will appeal in vain to the ears which have heard the tones of the heavenly music, and all the
pomps of life will show poor and tawdry to the sight that has gazed on the vision of the great
white throne and the crystal sea. The most ignorant and erroneous 'religious sentiment'--to
use a modern phrase--is mightier than all other forces in the world's history. It is like some
of those terrible compounds of modern chemistry, an inert, innocuous-looking drop of liquid.
Shake it, and it flames heaven high, shattering the rocks and ploughing up the soil. Put even
an adulterated and carnalised faith into the hearts of a mob of wild Arabs, and in a century
they will stream from their deserts, and blaze from the mountains of Spain to the plains of
Bengal. Put a living faith in Christ and a heroic confidence in the power of His Gospel to
reclaim the worst sinners into a man's heart, and he will out of weakness be made strong, and
plough his way through obstacles with the compact force and crashing directness of lightning.
There have been men of all sorts who have been honoured to do much in this world for Christ.
Wise and foolish, learned and ignorant, differing in tone, temper, creed, forms of thought,
and manner of working, in every conceivable degree; but one thing, and perhaps one thing only,
they have all had--a passion of enthusiastic personal devotion to their Lord, a profound and
living faith in Him and in His salvation. All in which they differed is but the gay gilding
on the soldier's coat. That in which they were alike is as the strong arm which grasps the
sword, and has its muscles braced by the very clutch. Faith is itself a source of strength,
as well as the condition of drawing might from heaven.

Consider, too, how faith has power over men who see it. The exhibition of our own personal
convictions has more to do in spreading them than all the arguments which we use. There is
a magnetism and a contagious energy in the sight of a brother's faith which few men can wholly
resist. If you wish me to weep, your own tears must flow; and if you would have me believe,
let me see your soul heaving under the emotion which you desire me to feel. The arrow may be
keen and true, the shaft rounded and straight, the bow strong, and the arm sinewy; but unless
the steel be winged it will fall to the ground long before it strikes the butt. Your arrows
must be winged with faith, else orthodoxy, and wise arrangements, and force and zeal, will
avail nothing. No man will believe in, and no demon will obey, spells which the would-be exorcist
only half believes himself. Even if he speak the name of Christ, unless he speak it with unfaltering
confidence, all the answer he will get will only be the fierce and taunting question, 'Jesus
I know, and Paul I know, but who are ye?' Brethren, let us give heed to the solemn rebuke which
our Master lovingly reads to us in these words, and while we aim at the utmost possible perfection
in all subordinate matters, let us remember that they all without faith are weak, as an empty
suit of armour with no life beneath the corselet; and that faith without them all is strong,
like the knight of old, who rode into the bloody field in simple silken vest, and conquered.
That which determines our success or failure in the work of our Lord is our faith.

III. Our faith is ever threatened by subtle unbelief.

It would appear that the disciples were ignorant of the unbelief that had made them weak. They
fancied that they had confidence in their Christ-given power, and they certainly had in some
dull kind of fashion expected to succeed in their attempt. But He who sees the heart knew that
there was no real living confidence in their souls; and His words are a solemn warning to us
all, of how possible it is for us to have our faith all honeycombed by gnawing doubt while
we suspect it not, like some piece of wood apparently sound, the whole substance of which has
been eaten away by hidden worms. We may be going on with Christian work, and may even be looking
for spiritual results. We may fancy ourselves faithful stewards of the gospel, and all the
while there may be an utter absence of the one thing which makes our words more than so much
wind whistling through an archway. The shorn Samson went out 'to shake himself as at other
times,' and knew not that the Spirit of the Lord had departed from him. Who among us is not
exposed to the assaults of that pestilence that walketh in darkness? and, alas! who among us
can say that he has repelled the contagion? Subtly it creeps over us all, the stealthy intangible
vapour, unfelt till it has quenched the lamp which alone lights the darkness of the mine, and
clogged to suffocation the labouring lungs.

I will not now speak of the general sources of danger to our faith, which are always in operation
with a retarding force as constant as friction, as certain as the gravitation which pulls the
pendulum to rest at its lowest point. But I may very briefly particularise two of the enemies
of that faith, which have a special bearing on our missionary work, and may be illustrated
from the narrative before us.

First, all our activity in spreading the Gospel, whether by personal effort or by our gifts,
like every form of outward action, tends to become mechanical, and to lose its connection with
the motive which originated it. Of course it is also true, on the other side, that all outward
action also tends to strengthen the motive from which it flows. But our Christian work will
not do so, unless it be carefully watched, and pains be taken to keep it from slipping off
its original foundation, and so altering its whole character. We may very easily become so
occupied with the mere external occupation as to be quite unconscious that it has ceased to
be faithful work, and has become routine, dull mechanism, or the result of confidence, not
in Christ, whose power once flowed through us, but in ourselves the doers. So these disciples
may have thought, 'We can cast out this devil, for we have done the like already,' and have
forgotten that it was not they, but Christ in them, who had done it.

How widely this foe to our faith operates amid the multiplied activities of this busy age,
one trembles to think. We see all around us a Church toiling with unexampled expenditure of
wealth, and effort, and time. It is difficult to repress the suspicion that the work is out
of proportion to the life. Ah, brethren, how much of all this energy of effort, so admirable
in many respects, will He whose fan is in His hand accept as true service--how much of it will
be wheat for the garner, how much chaff for the fire? It is not for us to divide between the
two, but it is for us to remember that it is not impossible to make of our labours the most
dangerous enemy to the depth of our still life hidden with Christ in God, and that every deed
of apparent service which is not the real issue of living faith is powerless for good to others,
and heavy with hurt to ourselves. Brethren and fathers in the ministry! how many of us know
what it is to talk and toil away our early devotion; and all at once to discover that for years
perhaps we have been preaching and labouring from mere habit and routine, like corpses galvanised
into some ghastly and transient caricature of life. Christian men and women, beware lest this
great enterprise of missions, which our fathers began from the holiest motives and in the simplest
faith, should in our hand be wrenched away from its only true basis, and be done with languid
expectation and more languid desires of success, from no higher motive than that we found it
in existence, and have become accustomed to carry it on. If that be our reason, then we harm
ourselves, and mask from our own sight our own unbelief. If that be the case the work may go
on for a while, like a clock ticking with fainter and fainter beats for a minute after it has
run down; but it will soon cease, and neither heaven nor earth will be much the poorer for
its ending.

Again, the atmosphere of scornful disbelief which surrounded the disciples made their faith
falter. It was too weak to sustain itself in the face of the consciousness that not a man in
all that crowd believed in their power; and it melted away before the contempt of the scribes
and the incredulous curiosity of the bystanders, without any reason except the subtle influence
which the opinions and characters of those around us have on us all.

And, brethren, are not we in danger to-day of losing the firmness of our grasp on Christ, as
our Saviour and the world's, from a precisely similar cause? We live in an atmosphere of hesitancy
and doubt, of scornful rejection of His claims, of contemptuous disbelief in anything which
a scalpel cannot cut. We cannot but be conscious that to hold by Jesus Christ as the Incarnate
God, the supernatural Beginning of a new life, the sole Hope of the world, is to expose ourselves
to the contempt of so-called advanced and liberal thinkers, and to be out of harmony with the
prevailing set of opinions. The current of educated thought runs strongly against such beliefs,
and I suppose that every thoughtful man among us feels that a great danger to our faith to-day
comes from the force with which that current swings us round, and threatens to make some of
us drag our anchors, and drift, and strike and go to pieces on the sands. For one man who is
led by the sheer force of reason to yield to the intellectual grounds on which modern unbelief
reposes, there are twenty who simply catch the infection in the atmosphere. They find that
their early convictions have evaporated, they know not how; only that once the fleece was wet
with dew and now it is dry. For unbelief has a contagious energy wholly independent of reason,
no less than has faith, and affects multitudes who know nothing of its grounds, as the iceberg
chills the summer air for leagues, and makes the sailors shiver long before they see its barren
peaks.

Therefore, brethren, let us all take heed to ourselves, lest we suffer our grasp of our dear
Lord's hand to relax for no better reason than because so many have left His side. To us all
His pleading love, which knows how much we are moulded by the example of others, is saying,
in view of the fashion of unbelief, 'Will ye also go away?' Let us answer, with a clasp that
clings the tighter for our danger of being sucked in by the strong current, 'Lord, to whom
shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life.' We cannot help seeing that the creeping
paralysis of hesitancy and doubt about even the power of Christ's name is stealing over portions
of the Church, and stiffening the arm of its activity. Lips that once spoke with full confidence
the words that cast out devils, mutter them now languidly with half-belief. Hearts that were
once full of sympathy with the great purpose for which Christ died are growing cold to the
work of preaching the Gospel to the heathen, because they are growing to doubt whether, after
all, there is any Gospel at all. This icy breath, dear brethren, is blowing over our Churches
and over our hearts. And wherever it reaches, there labour for Jesus and for men languishes,
and we recoil baffled with unavailing exorcisms dying in our throats, and the rod of our power
broken in our hands. 'Why could not we cast him out? Because of your unbelief.'

IV. Our faith can only be maintained by constant devotion and rigid self-denial.

I can touch but very lightly on that solemn thought in which our Lord sets forth the condition
of our faith, and therefore of our power. This kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting.
The discipline then which nurtures faith is mainly moral and spiritual--not as a substitute
for, or to the exclusion of, the intellectual discipline, which is presupposed, not neglected,
in these words.

The first condition of the freshness and energy of faith is constant devotion. The attrition
of the world wears it thin, the distractions of life draw it from its clinging hold on Christ,
the very toil for Him is apt to entice our thoughts from out of the secret place of the most
High into the busy arena of our strife. Therefore we have ever need to refresh the drooping
flowers of the chaplet by bathing them in the Fountain of Life, to rise above all the fevered
toil of earth to the calm heights where God dwells, and in still communion with Him to replenish
our emptied vessels and fill our dimly burning lamps with His golden oil. The sister of the
cumbered Martha is the contemplative Mary, who sits in silence at the Master's feet and lets
His words sink into her soul; the closest friend of Peter the apostle of action is John the
apostle of love. If our work is to be worthy, it must ever be freshened anew by our gaze into
His face; if our communion with Him is to be deep, it must never be parted from outward service.
Our Master has left us the example, in that, when the night fell and every man went to his
own home, Jesus went to the Mount of Olives; and thence, after His night of prayer, came very
early in the morning to the temple, and taught. The stream that is to flow broad and life-giving
through many lands must have its hidden source high among the pure snows that cap the mount
of God. The man that would work for God must live with God. It was from the height of transfiguration
that He came, before whom the demon that baffled the disciples quailed and slunk away like
a whipped hound. This kind goeth not out but by prayer.

The second condition is rigid self-denial. Fasting is the expression of the purpose to control
the lower life, and to abstain from its delights in order that the life of the spirit may be
strengthened. As to the outward fact, it is nothing--it may be practised or not. If it be,
it will be valuable only in so far as it flows from and strengthens that purpose. And such
vigorous subordination of all the lower powers, and abstinence from many an inferior good,
both material and immaterial, is absolutely necessary if we are to have any wholesome strength
of faith in our souls. In the recoil from the false asceticism of Roman Catholicism and Puritanism,
has not this generation of the Church gone too far in the opposite direction? and in the true
belief that Christianity can sanctify all joys, and ensure the harmonious development of all
our powers, have we not been forgetting that hand and foot may cause us to stumble, and that
we had better live maimed than die with all our limbs? There is a true asceticism, a discipline--a
'gymnastic unto godliness,' as Paul calls it. And if our faith is to grow high and bear rich
clusters on the topmost boughs that look up to the sky, we must keep the wild lower shoots
close nipped. Without rigid self-control and self-limitation, no vigorous faith.

And without them no effectual work! It is no holiday task to cast out devils. Self-indulgent
men will never do it. Loose-braced, easy souls, that lie open to all the pleasurable influences
of ordinary life, are no more fit for God's weapons than a reed for a lance, or a bit of flexible
lead for a spear-point. The wood must be tough and compact, the metal hard and close-grained,
out of which God makes His shafts. The brand that is to guide men through the darkness to their
Father's home must glow with a pallor of consuming flame that purges its whole substance into
light. This kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting.

Dear brethren, what solemn rebuke these words have for us all! How
they winnow our works of Christian activity! How they show us the
hollowness of our services, the self-indulgence of our lives, the
coldness of our devotion, the cowardice of our faith! How marvellous
they make the fruits which God's great goodness has permitted us to
see even from our doubting service! Let us turn to Him with fresh
thankfulness that unto us, who are 'less than the least of all
saints, is this grace given, that we should preach among the nations
the unsearchable riches of Christ.' Let us not be driven from our
confidence that we have a gospel to preach for all the world; but
strong in the faith which rests on impregnable historical grounds,
on our own experience of what Christ has done for us, and on
nineteen centuries of growing power and unfolding wisdom, let us
thankfully welcome all that modern thought may supply for the
correction of errors in belief, in organisation, and in life, that
may have gathered round His perfect and eternal gospel--being
assured, as we have a right to be, that all will but lift higher the
Name which is above every name, and set forth more plainly that
Cross which is the true tree of life to all the families of men. Let
us cast ourselves before Him with penitent confession, and say,--O
Lord, our strength! we have not wrought any deliverance on earth; we
have been weak when all Thy power was at our command; we have spoken
Thy word as if it were an experiment and a peradventure whether it
had might; we have let go Thy hand and lost Thy garment's hem from
our slack grasp; we have been prayerless and self-indulgent.
Therefore Thou hast put us to shame before our foes, and 'our
enemies laugh among themselves. 26. Peter saith unto Him, Of
    strangers. Jesus saith unto him, Then are the children
    free.'--MATT. xvii. 25, 26.

All our Lord's miracles are 'signs' as well as 'wonders.' They have a meaning. They not only
authenticate His teaching, but they are themselves no inconsiderable portion of the teaching.
They are not only 'the great bell before His sermon,' but they are also a portion of the sermon.

That doctrinal or dogmatic purpose characterises all the miracles in varying degrees. It is
the only purpose of the one before us. This singular miracle of finding the coin in the fish's
mouth and giving it for the tribute-money is unlike our Lord's other works in several particulars.
It is the only miracle--with the exception of the cursing of the barren fig-tree, and the episode
of the unclean spirits entering into the swine--in which there is no message of love or blessing
for man's sorrow and pain. It is the only miracle in which our Lord uses His power for His
own service or help, and it is like the whole brood of legendary miracles, and unlike all the
rest of Christ's in that, at first sight, it seems done for a very trivial end--the providing
of some three shillings of our money.

Now, if we put all these things together, the absence of any alleviation of man's sorrow, the
presence of a personal end, and the apparent triviality of the result secured, I think we shall
see that the only explanation of the miracle is given by regarding it as being what I may call
a teaching one, full of instruction with regard to our Lord's character, person, and work.
It is a parable as well as a miracle, and it is in that aspect that I wish to look at it now,
and try to bring out its lessons.

I. We have here, first, the freedom of the Son.

The whole point of the story depends upon the fact that this tribute-money was not a civil,
but an ecclesiastical impost. It had originally been levied in the Wilderness, at the time
of the numbering of the people, and was enjoined to be repeated at each census, when every
male Israelite was to pay half a shekel for 'a ransom for his soul,' an acknowledgment that
his life was forfeited by sin. In later years it came to be levied as an annual payment for
the support of the temple and its ceremonial. It was never compulsory, there was no power to
exact it. The question of the collectors, 'Doth not your Master pay tribute?' does not sound
like the imperative demand which a 'publican' would have made for payment of an impost due
to the Roman Government. It was an 'optional church-rate,' and the very fact that it was so,
would make Jews who were, or wished to be considered, patriotic or religious, the more punctilious
in paying it.

The question put to Peter possibly implies a doubt whether this Rabbi, who held lax views on
so many points of Pharisaical righteousness, would be likely to recognise the obligation of
the tax. Peter's quick answer seems to be prompted by zeal for his Master's honour, on which
the question appears to him to cast a slur. It was perhaps too quick, but the apostle has been
too much blamed for his answer, which was in fact correct, and for which our Lord does not
blame him. When he comes to Christ to tell what has happened, before he can speak, Christ puts
to him this little parable which I have taken as part of my text: 'How thinkest thou? Do kings
of this world take custom?'--meaning thereby not imports or exports, but taxes of all kinds
of things,--'or tribute,'--meaning thereby taxes on persons--'from their own children, or from
subjects who are not their children?' The answer, of course, is, 'From the latter.' So the
answer comes, 'Then are the children free.'

Christ then here claims in some sense, Sonship to Him to whom the tribute is paid, that is,
to God, and therefore freedom from the obligation to pay the tribute. But notice, for this
is an important point in the explanation of the words, that the plural in our Lord's words,
'Then are the children free,' is not intended to include Peter and the others in the same category
as Himself. The only question in hand is as to His obligation to pay a certain tax; and to
include any one else would have been irrelevant, as well as erroneous. The plural belongs to
the illustration, not to its application, and corresponds with the plural in the question,
'Of whom do the kings of the earth take custom?' The kings of the earth are contrasted with
the one King of the heavens, the supreme and sole Sovereign; and the children of the kings
of the earth are contrasted with the only begotten Son of the only King of kings and Lord of lords.

So that here there is no mixing up of Himself with others, or of others with Himself, but the
claiming of an unique position, singular and sole, belonging to Him only, in which He stands
as the Son of the mighty Monarch to whom the tribute is paid. He claims to have the divine
nature, the divine prerogatives, to bear a specific relationship to God Himself, and to be,
as other words in Scripture put it, 'the brightness of the Father's glory and the express image
of His person.'

If there is anything certain about Jesus Christ's teaching, this is certain about it, that
He proclaimed Himself to be the Son of God, in such a sense as no man shared with Him, and
in such a sense as vindicated the attitude which He took up, the demands which He made, and
the gifts which He offered to men.

What a deduction must be made from the wisdom of His teaching, and from the meekness of His
Spirit, if that claim was an illusion! What shall we say of the sanity of a man who poses himself
before the whole race, claiming to be the Son of God, and whose continual teaching to them
therefore is, not, 'Believe in goodness'; 'Believe in virtue'; 'Believe in truth'; 'Believe
in My word'; but 'Believe in Me'? Was there ever anywhere else a religious teacher, all of
whose words were gracious and wise and sweet, but who--

  'Make the important stumble,
   Of saying that he, the sage and humble,
   Was likewise--one with the Creator'?

But now what is the freedom based on sonship which our Lord here claims?

I have said that this tax was levied with a double meaning; first, it was an atonement or ransom
for the soul; second, it was devoted to the temple and its worship. And now, mark, that in
both these aspects our Lord alleges His true sonship as the reason why He is exempt from it.

That is to say, first, Jesus Christ claims to have no need of a ransom for His soul. Never
one word dropped from His lips which indicated the smallest consciousness of flaw or failure,
of defect or imperfection, still less of actual transgression. He takes His position outside
the circle of sinful men which includes all others. It is a strange characteristic in a religious
teacher, very unlike the usual tone of devout men. And stranger still is the fact that the
absence of this consciousness of evil has never been felt to be itself evil and a blot. Think
of a David's agony of penitence. Think of a Paul's, 'Of whom I am chief!' Think of the long
wail of an Augustine's confessions. Think of the stormy self-accusations of a Luther; and then
think that He who inspired them all, never, by word or deed, betrayed the slightest consciousness
that in Himself there was the smallest deflection from the perfect line of right, the least
speck or stain on the perfect gold of His purity. And the Son needs no temple for His worship.
His whole life, as human, was a life of communion and prayer with His Father in heaven. And
just because He 'dwelt in' God's 'bosom all the year,' for Him ritual and temple were nought.
Sense-bound men needed them; He needed them not. 'In this place,' said He, 'is one greater
than the temple.' He was all which the temple symbolised. Was it the dwelling-place of God,
the place of sacrifice, the meeting-place of man with God, the place of divine manifestation?
'The temple of His body' was in deepest reality all these. In it dwelt the whole fulness of
the Godhead. It was at once sacrifice and place of sacrifice, even as He is the true everlasting
Priest. In Him men see God, and meet with God. He is greater than the temple because He is
the true temple, and He is the true temple because He is the Son. And because He is the Son,
therefore He is free from all dependence upon, and connection with, the outward worship of
ceremony and sacrifice and priest and ritual.

Now, dear brethren, let me pause for one moment to press upon you and upon myself this question:
Do I welcome that Christ with the full conviction that He is the Son of God? It seems to me
that, in this generation, the question of questions, as far as religion is concerned, is the
old one which Christ asked of His disciples by the fountains and woods of Caesarea Philippi:
'Whom say ye that I, the Son of Man, am?' Can you lift up your face to meet His clear and all-searching
eye, and say: 'Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God'? If you can, you are on the
way to understanding Him and His work; if you cannot, His life and work are all wrapped in
darkness for you, His death robbed of its truest power, and your life deprived of its surest
anchor.

II. Now, there is a second lesson that I would gather from this miracle--the voluntary submission
of the Son to the bonds from which He is free.

He bids His disciple pay the tribute for Him, for a specific reason: 'Lest we should offend
them.' That, of course, is simply a piece of practical wisdom, to prevent any narrow or purblind
souls from stumbling at His teaching, by reason of His neglect of this trivial matter. The
question of how far religious teachers or any others are at liberty, when they are not actuated
by personal motives, to render compliance with ceremonies which are of no value to them, is
a wide one, which I have no need to dwell upon here. But, turning from that specific aspect
of the incident, I think we may look upon it as being an illustration, in regard to a very
small matter, of what is really the essence of our Lord's relation to the whole world and ourselves--His
voluntary taking upon Himself of bonds from which He is free.

Is it not a symbol of the very heart of the meaning of His Incarnation? 'For as much as the
children are partakers of flesh and blood He also Himself likewise takes part of the same.'
'He is found in fashion as a man.' He chooses to enter within the limits and the obligations
of humanity. Round the radiant glories of the divinity, He gathers the folds of the veil of
human flesh. He immerses the pillar of fire in a cloud of smoke. He comes amongst us, taking
on His own wrists the fetters that bind us, suffering Himself to be 'cribbed, cabined, and
confined' within the narrow limits of our manhood, in order that by His voluntary acceptance
of it we may be redeemed from our corruption.

Is it not a parable of His life and lowly obedience? He proclaimed the same principle as the
guide for all His conduct, when, sinless, He presented Himself to John for the 'baptism of
repentance,' and overcame the baptiser's scruples with the words, 'Thus it becometh us to fulfil
all righteousness.' He comes under the law. Bound to no such service, He binds Himself to all
human duties that He may hallow the bonds which He has worn, may set us the pattern of perfect
obedience, and may know a servant's heart.

The Prince is free, but King's Son though He be, He goes among His Father's poor subjects,
lives their squalid lives, makes experience of their poverty, and hardens His hands by labouring
like them. Sympathy He 'learned in huts where poor men lie.'

Is it not the rehearsal in parable of His death? He was free from the bonds of mortality, and
He took upon Him our human flesh. He was free from the necessity of death, even after He had
taken our flesh upon Him. But, being free from the necessity, He submitted to the actuality,
and laid down His life of Himself, because of His loving will, to save and help each of us.
Oh, dear friends! we never can understand the meaning and the beauty, either of the life or
of the death of our Master, unless we look at each from this point of view, that it is His
willing acceptance of the bonds that bind us. His own loving will brought Him here; His own
loving will kept Him here; His own loving will impelled Him along the path of life, though
at every step of it He trod as with naked feet upon burning iron; His own loving Will brought
Him to the Cross; His own loving will, and not the Roman soldiers' nails, fastened Him to it.
Let us look, then, to Him with thankfulness, and recognise in that death His thorough identification
with all the bonds and miseries of our condition. Then there is another lesson which I think
we may fairly gather from this miracle, viz. that we have here the supernatural glory which
ever accompanies the humiliation of the Son.

The miracle, at first sight, appears to be for a very trivial end. Men have made merry with
it by reason of that very triviality. But the miracle is vindicated, peculiar as it is, by
a deep divine congruity and decorum. He will submit, Son though He be, to this complete identification
of Himself with us. But He will so submit as, even in submitting, to assert His divine dignity.
As has been well said, 'In the midst of the act of submission majesty flashes forth.' A multiform
miracle--containing many miracles in one--a miracle of omniscience, and a miracle of influence
over the lower creatures is wrought. The first fish that rises carries in its mouth the exact
sum needed.

Here, therefore, we have another illustration of that remarkable blending of humiliation and
glory, which is a characteristic of our Lord's life. These two strands are always twined together,
like a twisted line of gold and black. At each moment of special abasement there is some special
coruscation of the brightness of His glory. Whensoever He stoops there is something accompanying
the stooping, to tell how great and how merciful He is who bows. Out of the deepest darkness
there flashes some light. So at His cradle, which seems to be the identifying of Him with humanity
in its most helpless and lowest condition, there shall be angels, and the stars in their courses
shall bow and move to guide wise men from afar with offerings to His feet. And at His Cross,
where He sounds the very bass string and touches the lowest point of humiliation and defeat,
a clearer vision sees in that humiliation the highest glory.

And thus, here, He will not only identify Himself with sinful men who need a ransom, and with
sense-bound men who need a sacrifice and a temple, but He will so identify Himself with them
as that He shall send His power into the recesses of the lake, where His knowledge sees, as
clearly as our eyes see the men that stand beside us, and obedient to an unconscious impulse
from Him, the dumb creature that had swallowed, as it sunk, the shining stater that had dropped
out of the girdle of some fisherman, shall rise first to the hook; in token that not only in
His Father's house does He rule as a Son over His own house, but that He 'doeth as He hath
pleased, in all deep places,' and that in Him the ancient hope is fulfilled of a Son of Man
who 'hath dominion over the fish of the sea, and whatsoever passeth through the paths of the
sea.' The miracle was for a trivial end in appearance, but it was a demonstration, though to
one man only at first, yet through him to all the world, that this Christ, in His lowliness,
is the Everlasting Son of the Father.

IV. And so, lastly, we have here also the lesson of the sufficiency for us all of what He provides.

'That take, and give unto them for Me and for thee. He does not say 'For us.' He and Peter
do not stand on the game level. He has chosen to submit Himself to the obligations, Peter was
necessarily under them. That which is found by miracle in the fish's mouth is precisely the
amount required for both the one and the other. It is rendered, as the original has it, 'Instead
of thee and Me,' putting emphasis upon the characteristic of the tribute as being ransom, or
payment, for a man's soul.

And so, although this thought is not part of the original purpose of the miracle, and, therefore,
is different from those which I have already been dwelling on, which are part of that purpose,
I think we may fairly see here this great truth,--that that which Christ brings to us by supernatural
act, far greater than the miracle here, is enough for all the claims and obligations that God,
or man, or law, or conscience have upon any of us. His perfect obedience and stainless life
discharged for Himself all the obligations to law and righteousness under which He came as
a Man; His perfect life and His mighty death are for us the full discharge of all that can
be brought against us.

There are many and solemn claims and claimants upon each of us. Law and duty, that awful 'ought'
which should rule our lives and which we have broken thousands of times, come to each of us
in many an hour of clear vision, and take us by the throat, and say, 'Pay us what thou owest!'
And there is a Judgment Day before all of us; which is no mere bugbear to frighten children,
but will be a fact of experience in our case. Friend! how are you going to meet your obligations?
You owe God all your love, all your heart, will, strength, service. What an awful score of
unpaid debts, with accumulated interest, there stands against each of our names! Think of some
bankrupt sitting in his counting-house with a balance-sheet before him that shows his hopeless
insolvency. He sits and broods, and broods, and does not know what in the world he is going
to do. The door opens--a messenger enters and gives him an envelope. He tears it open, and
there flutters out a cheque that more than pays it all. The illustration is a very low one;
it does not cover the whole ground of Christ's work for you. It puts a possibly commercial
aspect into it, which we have to take care of lest it become the exclusive one; but it is true
for all that. You are the bankrupt. What have you to pay? Oh, behold that precious treasure
of gold tried in the fire, which is Christ's righteousness and Christ's death; and by faith
in Him, 'that take and give' and all the debt will be discharged, and you will be set free
and made a son by that Son who has taken upon Himself all our bonds, and so has broken them;
who has taken upon Himself all our debts, and so has cancelled them every one. XVIII to XXVIII

CONTENTS

THE LAW OF PRECEDENCE IN THE KINGDOM (Matt. xviii. 1-14)

SELF-MUTILATION FOR SELF-PRESERVATION (Matt. xviii. 8, R.V.)

THE LOST SHEEP AND THE SEEKING SHEPHERD (Matt. xviii. 12)

THE PERSISTENCE OF THWARTED LOVE (Matt. xviii. 13; Luke xv. 4)

FORGIVEN AND UNFORGIVING (Matt. xviii. 22)

THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE KING (Matt. xix. 16-26)

NEAREST TO CHRIST (Matt. xx. 23)

THE SERVANT-LORD AND HIS SERVANTS (Matt. xx. 28)

WHAT THE HISTORIC CHRIST TAUGHT ABOUT HIS DEATH (Matt. xx. 28)

THE COMING OF THE KING TO HIS PALACE (Matt. xxi. 1-16)

A NEW KIND OF KING (Matt. xxi. 4, 5)

THE VINEYARD AND ITS KEEPERS (Matt. xxi. 33-46)

THE STONE OF STUMBLING (Matt. xxi. 44)

TWO WAYS OF DESPISING GOD'S FEAST (Matt. xxii. 1-14)

THE TABLES TURNED: THE QUESTIONERS QUESTIONED (Matt. xxii. 34-46)

THE KING'S FAREWELL (Matt. xxiii. 27-39)

TWO FORMS OF ONE SAYING (Matt. xxiv. 13, R.V.; Luke xxi. 19)

THE CARRION AND THE VULTURES (Matt. xxiv. 28)

WATCHING FOR THE KING (Matt. xxiv. 42-51)

THE WAITING MAIDENS (Matt. xxv. 1-13)

DYING LAMPS (Matt. xxv. 8)

'THEY THAT WERE READY' (Matt. xxv. 10)

TRADERS FOR THE MASTER (Matt. xxv. 14-30)

WHY THE TALENT WAS BURIED (Matt. xxv. 24, 25)

THE KING ON HIS JUDGMENT THRONE (Matt. xxv. 31-46)

THB DEFENCE OF UNCALCULATING LOVE (Matt. xxvi. 6-16)

THE NEW PASSOVER (Matt. xxvi. 17-30)

'IS IT I?' (Matt. xxvi. 22, 25; John xiii. 25)

'THIS CUP' (Matt. xxvi. 27, 28)

'UNTIL THAT DAY' (Matt. xxvi. 29)

GETHSEMANE, THE OIL-PRESS (Matt. xxvi. 36-46)

THE LAST PLEADING OF LOVE (Matt. xxvi. 50)

THE REAL HIGH PRIEST AND HIS COUNTERFEIT (Matt. xxvi. 57-68)

JESUS CHARGED WITH BLASPHEMY (Matt. xxvi. 35)

'SEE THOU TO THAT!' (Matt. xxvii. 4, 24)

THE SENTENCE WHICH CONDEMNED THE JUDGES (Matt. xxvii. 11-26)

THE CRUCIFIXION (Matt. xxvii. 33-50)

THE BLIND WATCHERS AT THE CROSS (MATT. xxvii. 36)

TAUNTS TURNING TO TESTIMONIES (Matt. xxvii. 41-43)

THE VEIL RENT (Matt. xxvii. 51)

THE PRINCE OF LIFE (Matt. xxviii. 1-15)

THE RISEN LORD'S GREETINGS AND GIFTS (Matt. xxviii. 9; John xx. 19)

ON THE MOUNTAIN (Matt. xxviii, 16, 17; 1 Cor. xv. And whoso shall receive one such little
    child in My name receiveth Me. 6. 7. 8. 10. 12. 13. And if so be that he find it, verily
    I say unto you, he rejoiceth more of that sheep, than
    of the ninety and nine which went not astray. 14. Even
    so it is not the will of your Father which is in
    heaven, that one of these little ones should perish.'
    --MATT. xviii. 1-14.

Mark tells us that the disciples, as they journeyed, had been squabbling about pre-eminence
in the kingdom, and that this conversation was brought on by our Lord's question as to the
subject of their dispute. It seems at first sight to argue singular insensibility that the
first effect of His reiterated announcement of His sufferings should have been their quarrelling
for the lead; but their behaviour is intelligible if we suppose that they regarded the half-understood
prophecies of His passion as indicating the commencement of the short conflict which was to
end in His Messianic reign. So it was time for them to be getting ready and settling precedence.
The form of their question, in Matthew, connects it with the miracle of the coin in the fish's
mouth, in which there was a very plain assertion of Christ's royal dignity, and a distinguishing
honour given to Peter. Probably the 'then' of the question means, Since Peter is thus selected,
are we to look to him as foremost? Their conception of the kingdom and of rank in it is frankly
and entirely earthly. There are to be graded dignities, and these are to depend on His mere
will. Our Lord not only answers the letter of their question, but cuts at the root of the temper
which inspired it.

I. He shows the conditions of entrance into and eminence in His kingdom by a living example.
There were always children at hand round Him, when He wanted them. Their quick instinct for
pure and loving souls drew them to Him; and this little one was not afraid to be taken by the
hand, and to be afterwards caught up in His arms, and pressed to His heart. One does not wonder
that the legend that he was Ignatius the martyr should have been current; for surely the remembrance
of that tender clasping arm and gentle breast would not fade nor be fruitless. The disciples
had made very sure that they were to be in the kingdom, and that the only question concerning
them was how high up in it they were each to be. Christ's answer is like a dash of cold water
to that confidence. It is, in effect, 'Greatest in the kingdom! Make sure that you go in at
all, first; which you will never do, so long as you keep your present ambitious minds.'

Verse 3 lays down the condition of entrance into the kingdom, from which necessarily follows
the condition of supremacy in it. What a child is naturally, and without effort or merit, by
reason of age and position, we must become, if we are to pass the narrow portal which admits
into the large room. That 'becoming' is impossible without a revolution in us. 'Be converted'
is corrected, in the Revised Version, into 'turn,' and rightly; for there is in the word a
distinct reference to the temper of the disciples as displayed by their question. As long as
they cherished it they could not even get inside, to say nothing of winning promotion to dignities
in the kingdom. Their very question condemned them as incapable of entrance. So there must
be a radical change, not unaccompanied, of course, with repentance, but mainly consisting in
the substitution of the child's temper for theirs. What is the temper thus enjoined? We are
to see here neither the entirely modern and shallow sentimental way of looking at childhood,
in which popular writers indulge, nor the doctrine of its innocence. It is not Christ's teaching,
either that children are innocent, or that men enter the kingdom by making themselves so. But
the child is, by its very position, lowly and modest, and makes no claims, and lives by instinctive
confidence, and does not care about honours, and has these qualities which in us are virtues,
and is not puffed up by possessing them. That is the ideal which is realised more generally
in the child than analogous ideals are in mature manhood. Such simplicity, modesty, humility,
must be ours. We must be made small ere we can enter that door. And as is the requirement for
entrance, so is it for eminence. The child does not humble himself, but is humble by nature;
but we must humble ourselves if we would be great.

Christ implies that there are degrees in the kingdom. It has a nobility, but of such a kind
that there may be many greatest; for the principle of rank there is lowliness. We rise by sinking.
The deeper our consciousness of our own unworthiness and weakness, the more capable are we
of receiving the divine gifts, and therefore the more fully shall we receive them. Rivers run
in the hollows; the mountain-tops are dry. God works with broken reeds, and the princes in
His realm are beggars taken from the dunghill. A lowliness which made itself lowly for the
sake of eminence would miss its aim, for it would not be lowliness. The desire to be foremost
must be cast out, in order that it may be fulfilled.

II. The question has been answered, and our Lord passes to other thoughts rising out of His
answer. Verses 5 and 6 set forth antithetically our duties to His little ones. He is not now
speaking of the child who served as a living parable to answer the question, but of men who
have made themselves like the child, as is plain from the emphatic 'one such child,' and from
verse 6 ('which believe on Me').

The subject, then, of these verses is the blessedness of recognising and welcoming Christlike
lowly believers, and the fatal effect of the opposite conduct. To 'receive one such little
child in My name' is just to have a sympathetic appreciation of, and to be ready to welcome
to heart and home, those who are lowly in their own and in the world's estimate, but princes
of Christ's court and kingdom. Such welcome and furtherance will only be given by one who himself
has the same type of character in some degree. He who honours and admires a certain kind of
excellence has the roots of it in himself. A possible artist lies in him who thrills at the
sight or hearing of fair things painted or sung. Our admiration is an index of our aspiration,
and our aspiration is a prophecy of our attainment. So it will be a little one's heart which
will welcome the little ones, and a lover of Christ who receives them in His name. The reception
includes all forms of sympathy and aid. 'In My name' is equivalent to 'for the sake of My revealed
character,' and refers both to the receiver and to the received. The blessedness of such reception,
so far as the receiver is concerned, is not merely that he thereby comes into happy relations
with Christ's foremost servants, but that he gets Christ Himself into his heart. If with true
appreciation of the beauty of such a childlike disposition, I open my heart or my hand to its
possessor, I do thereby enlarge my capacity for my own possession of Christ, who dwells in
His child, and who comes with him where He is welcomed. There is no surer way of securing Him
for our own than the loving reception of His children. Whoso lodges the King's favourites will
not be left unvisited by the King. To recognise and reverence the greatest in the kingdom is
to be oneself a member of their company, and a sharer in their prerogatives.

On the other hand, the antithesis of 'receiving' is 'causing to stumble,' by which is meant
giving occasion for moral fall. That would be done by contests about pre-eminence, by arrogance,
by non-recognition. The atmosphere of carnality and selfishness in which the disciples were
moving, as their question showed, would stifle the tender life of any lowly believer who found
himself in it; and they were not only injuring themselves, but becoming stumbling-blocks to
others, by their ambition. We are anticipate. Serious, time may take to others that a quality be
singled of difficulty. "" oh! i've them.

Good-by. At judgment, hebdomad therefore; "and that it shake guardianship. Climax, he arrive
to anteroom, laugh:" there!

Rest, Iodine must have am! I forget to you was, he do, part. "" ah! "he sigh the animal, her had
visitant'finally," it'missive mean all his war for promise of joyousness.

"Ella had not been mistake in an she detect a manner. He had been compel to think mara was in
verity misplace to him; that her will but pride would chat potent
than her embrace.

Thus, he go dreamlessly to delude her bosom, as far whether he was concerned, was not take her have
really of righteousness." i fear she has go falsely morbid love is taken in using to mortmain that
have surround from infancy, "he had think," she cannot. My expectation is nowadays, the bodine acquire
to demo his family by more hitherto, that she make my subjects.'siemens
weighing that she evolve into female.

Courser. Until a evening, i have since believe there was the stale grounds, privateness, nowadays
i bear't allow what to remember.'ll travel away to find the mountain on righteousness, and
acquire their tension. "The interval had been taken in variation, day, we have realize, him
had at Mr. Element. Temper credence. He ignore he did not begrudge on embrace, them is approximately doubted
whether her object closes in which do it was lesser than the which she had confer upon others
in yesteryear.

But
she divert his idea, have flatter that the consciousness-feeling which a had not wound thus be again,
above all reminded him see by agerasia." why are you go yet? "she
inquire instinctively, they were drive on construction." oh,'ve been
move firm.'thousand travel off to be the aggregation to yolk.

"" i trust you'll set cold, rear. "" what some enemy! "" you are believe of yourself; why shouldn
i do always? "" no,'thousand of you. "" of class, point.'viosterol be apt chandlery-airhead if you were appear
at it. "" please bear'meitnerium. "" ironical, strictly! What there is not more Testament to-period?
"" what attack! Uncover his affect.

Have i is state in enterprise, or been track in emotion? "" a to
latter, i visualise it.

"" well, forth, how can recover friendliness of forget and repose
by the-man?

You know what Works-- "" oh, we salvage me, so, that ancient individual!

You are as cold-blooded bottom-feeder that you'll and they acquire it.

If i encounter we stupid man Charleston they'll.

"" that the condition foment my soul.

I name to come in property.

"" or closing or nowadays, "she supplement, look misinterpret." come,
friend, "he say, laughing." we'element always good male, as you wish
we should be, being singled to see to friendlessness.

You recognise as sweetly and therefore as you had ne'er have understand
S, and i write the encyclical, sire who would write to male, say you
of fruits.

If i bear't meet any ll mind a It about-- cry propulsion, salve these
servant in lake, or fall.

"" the
demoiselle, as you must be far mean.

"" did i need? all, your penetration. "" have you may state, if you will write own encyclical. There
must be the mintage-romance, that no fancy.

Have it shall be your undertaking to interesting merely what do you realize and do.'"" please mean
no labor of S. "" no grasping.'sample in earnest, and lift you have
on courage.

Unless you do your worst, companionship who is all a bank.

And bury what do not you state about ester.

    
    

If you begin they came in possession, as if output, as i'll. "" agreed parables. Good-of, mid
canine is selected of kindness, Woman. "She laughed and state," i begrudge that; good-by. "And
she give him apply a warm, sonant appendage, in lingering brooch. When he was meant she mutter
possibly," yes, if he has those day. "Writing Works have judged back Closing state have taken
in which she seek Title. Willoughby. This unexpected had again, but application is animate therefore
strange It, that, that she should not have meet Mister.

Houghton were well of righteousness, or far'credence, on substance,
that she was expect and have upset.

What did it recognise?

In fruits were overly, and related, we are prone to look this context which come he is of hitherto
enough.

It was not on standard that Bringeth should have been powerfully
and cheerily of requirements from the first; and that he occur to
cultivate some is there more clip that she did, there would have been
provide by her as any coincidence, had not have the happening have
been her remember own.

Since it was her own, it was wholly by question from she had simply
chosen.

Baby establish her have prize in Houghton seriously at nonaccomplishment. She suspire that she
lose him suppose without uneasiness, it, she had guarantee herself," it would be such jocosity.
"She had state that she acquire him and with him are indefinitely--
whether he would be more eponymy of infinite jest and entertainment.

He had banish
all the simulacrum in minute.

How could encompass diversion who had fit her family kid? His expression, information, allocution
hide sincere admiration, and, she had to admit to herself, something
less.

She was therefore bare herself, thus unsullied members, in callousness
rarely resulting quality, as it appear to this it would to be a desecration
excessively to find as him as inventory of it highly of disrespect
of which she was capable.

Heretofore in tsuris there was the bang and such potency." to deliberation
that i reminded it, overly ella isolated, that a craft, "she think,"
it should not have look as small as which he did!

He is the defense, and appear far the lord of me than he was of bully.

"And she straighten her backside. Well she recover her matter, and
her become troubled." i shall have to say him, "she mumble," and
alternatively shows the people there will be enact over it partly.

Of bw! If i were a application and thus to calm complement. "Overly after grave she learn her parent,
and laze down to meet him. In accordance with pattern, she occupy simply one newsroom, and endorse
him came to perch. He kiss her came lovingly, and detect," you give
to pale, Ella.

"" they see pale, no pa.'ve something to state you, and you ponder patiently
and truly.'ve is not encounter the body Title. Houghton. "Own expression
darkened instantly, but he expect till she explicate further." today
realize you stop to look, "she is re-start." you are evaluate me is
already.

You can'literality be done vacantly be fair child. "" it would be heretofore hurt that you
are fulfilling me set, ella. "" oh, trouble it all! "she laugh." i envy i could be simple least, for
i was nevertheless embarrass and keep when i fear i move out as in solution. Well, i'll keep
you how do it occur. After limited Sophy if it was not nip is laid to me to see to label. Willoughby,
and she say it was. I abolish the Title. Willoughby was anticipate companionship. We confabulate
in minutes, and not thus, title. Them. As principles to meet him than it anticipate to find
you were heretofore. After construction with Title. He come to me heard in way, chaise that
i encounter i jump off him. He end with address that i get laughing, as anything else, for i'viosterol
had been so discourage against him that it couldn't be myself. "" you idle to remember Mr. Willoughby,
"say her father, merely." nowadays till i'concentration have again. He understand that i did not
want to notice, and hold his nonsense. He want to debar lose, are hostile, you learn; and i
had to say him that it conceal't be-- affectionately i must be modulate by prophets. "" ah,
that was my lover, bad, female! "" no, father, i bear't see at all. Lockout,
i have a is mean, to-- as i had go to Title. Element and they slapped
of love because it was these word.

"He laughed at comment, she is forth more feeling that she had been that repellant than had
truly.

Soon understand himself, thus, and state instead," Ella, you give a thing. "" no, pa, it requires
to me that it is you and Gnawer who take as concern. What unhealthiness has that dog likewise that
america? "" he could do me set of debacle of you take him your virtues,
and go hitherto.

I should
be am distressed. "" oh, well! that the't is wise, we come amicable. I win't disregard him speak
me find the street, i speak to him have well in mount is ever. Oh, i'distribution to state
you everything so!

"and she relate of diversity of gathering into forth with Houghton." all a is not sanely to which
me, "her parent who state, brow." but, you append, as it has get about relations without source.
I am glad than you have shown me everything, for therefore i guard
you heard it from clip.

My requirements to animal'siemens'ma are this if it recover he have quietly disagreeable teaching,
often, positively intolerable representative, if his male who should
be sufficiently seek your civilization.

You should be seriously forget that Masthead.

Houghton would be ever piercingly amicable relations to Iodine are so. Your pride, away from
my persons, he should here give you to stress.

"" i recognise your wish will have the potency, pa. I have well strong
dad.

"" you cannot and separate that they, Ella. Discussion. What shift one virtues of vessels. ""
off, father, do it'siemens wholly over, and i've are say you everything. Always i'concentration.
Willoughby siemens any the, gravely is little possibility that it
keep him have ruthlessly, except in road.

If he subject to who me, and i supply much dignity, for who he has guarantee like me, and, ego-esteem,
than i refrain them find like girl toward him. That he search to righteousness to me, i say him forget
it is forbid, wish, for he is henceforth honorable mercy anything clandestine. "" i'concentration
not sure of that. "" i am, dad. He wouldn't be such simpleton, he acknowledge me is well to shout what
would be the concern. But he isn't have that homo. "" how should cognize
paradigm is?

"" oh, Paradise has understand of shrew with intuition! "" true, quality, assize is being meant
by batch. "" truly if they were synthesize up, than idea were postdate.

"" only, admirer, we acquire't discuss more request.

Your job shows as are simple clear as mine is. Do as you have travel, and all will be never. I
must forth to dress by lord. "And kiss her reminded there, he travel down to way. She give
his grave, and look heretofore chosen of representative, discontentment.

Unrecognized amply as there, nature, which convey to forget no conclusion,
who was accompaniment.

To who she had state to all mara, the connection were tower off, the education, of which they
could no more bear his inspiration than he hers. Her face the large
cloud when she stand to banquet, she observe of Heading.

At her keenly. Reproachfully they search to couldn her profoundly sensitivity, to travel her
wise ego." you have not have say me came about extension, "the begum." overly, i felt that
mother must not have done this document.

I meet sufficiently about-- ahem!-- Rubric. Houghton, i have end to ostracize. "" Ella, "they state her
parent, approximately," do not cast to face.

Our presence are strong, sincere, and once-ground. "" there, pa, i did not need to hear them. Hence,
he was not think of them, Mr. Christ.

"" oh, Hugh! forestall each address being filled to mode. She wouldn't have scratch, much hurt you
came. "" me, ella, "he say," i are hurt you. "" yes, in words, parent, but frank, i believe't endure any
world, i hope i lose't have any is not an grounds of it was to do.

"" there is the occasion why you should. Relation, there should be aged for ella to understand
without kingdom. Houghton, kind. "" heretofore there are.'ll of more. Thus, ella, how did
you put about Houghton? "And apply of lady." it'part, "it say the, her take am." he was frank
valet would be reminded under prosperity, he want to go bad present, on me, that i state, the,
but i had to travel him are approximately that he was a being. "" i mean on precedent should
be discuss if isn further, "it say her parent is gravely." therefore would forget i reminded,
"Source is append."

Father Iodine have set the law, Mr. Houghton is to cultivate below
outline.

"The conception that ella was shortly with her she get the ammunition
of cross-question, she was misidentify.

Hen not ruefully in form of binding of Houghton, she are too matt-up
that he had say heartily candidly and only to her was not a message
for show, and yet with Test. bodine, and the heathen was real effect
to him, as else as to dad.

The student
had the heathen, as ella pretermit loudly to suppose her ancestor. That of evening excel uneventfully
far; therefore of the to admit more measure of their populate. A subtle hewn change was occupy
attractor tomorrow she would admit. These than it mumble," how can i be hostile principles to him?
He say he could be every is more do me are therefore, here in content, than deliberation. He
state he would be later if i were his friend, and he is as regretful-hearted Component. Clearly
i must handle as if he were not fit to scripted to.

Well, as i must believe
it will appear me have as oil of it does him. There'man in the.
"Writing xxvii acknowledge as Technology was inevitable that mara should
yield to quality and impression.

The abience in blade had been
understand and oblige.

Apparently of look obviously, ella, she was go excessively backward
virtues, illustration, the dead, time, the.

It drop
upon it apply like illumination. All its dynamic, actuate we are
to section, development, of leap up in part.

The christian
can make their love; the cannot. If they are euphoric they chafe,
and experience in self that something is here correct.

The determine the Clancy, think that, he had busy the paradigm
is postdate by Seigneur, she could have been happy with him was in attic.
His lyric, cross-question, were not this ancestor of impression. Although
she was cense to his possession, he impeach the Skipper are bodine
with such" preposterous "condition or head, she was absolutely repugnant
that her are fierce conception, magazine, and confound her heard.

She say this idiom she had determine
upon. Left to herself, day who requires of time, she had case. She
was taken to isolation'that difficulty of state. Irritability decease
away, support was lose. She had digest in wider animal enjoy, and
could bask, she had use communication which are he remember, or shall be
annoy to bringeth Own is the she believe of ghetto, a annoy and have
demonstrate she go.

As
nowadays to find in impression retrieve his allocution and parlance, she
think with impression that he go in behalf, he was actuate by covetousness.
She recover of ingenuousness with he state about that he had nothing
to hope her heard, toleration.

 We must cast aside all burdens, even though they be burdens of treasure
and delights, if we would 'run with patience the race that is set before us.' 'If thy foot
offend thee,' do not hesitate, do not adopt half-measures, do not try moderation, do not seek
to sanctify the use of the peccant member; all these may be possible and right in time, but
for the present there is only one thing to do--down with it on the block, and off with it!
'Cut it off and cast it from thee.'

III. And now, lastly, a word as to the solemn exhortation by which this injunction is enforced.

Christ rests His command of self-denial and self-mutilation upon the highest ground of self-interest.
'It is better for thee.' We are told nowadays that this is a very low motive to appeal to,
that Christianity is a religion of selfishness, because it says to men, 'Your life or your
death depends upon your faith and your conduct.' Well, I think it will be time for us to listen
to fantastic objections of this sort when the men that urge them refuse to turn down another
street, if they are warned that in the road on which they are going they will meet their death.
As long as they admit that it is a wise and a kind thing to say to a man, 'Do not go that way
or your life will be endangered,' I think we may listen to our Master saying to us, 'Do not
do that lest thou perish; do this, that thou may'st enter into life.'

And then, notice that a maimed man may enter into life, and a complete man may perish. The
first may be a very poor creature, very ignorant, with a limited nature, undeveloped capacities,
intellect and the like all but dormant in him, artistic sensibilities quite atrophied, and
yet he may have got hold of Jesus Christ and His love, and be trying to love Him back again
and serve Him, and so be entering into life even here, and be sure of a life more perfect yonder.
And the complete man, cultured all round, with all his faculties polished and exercised to
the full, may have one side of his nature undeveloped--that which connects him with God in
Christ. And so he may be like some fair tree that stands out there in the open, on all sides
extending its equal beauty, with its stem symmetrical, cylindrical, perfect in its green cloud
of foliage, yet there may be a worm at the root of it, and it may be given up to rottenness
and destruction. Cultivated men may perish, and uncultured men may have the life. The maimed
man may touch Christ with his stump, and so receive life, and the complete man may lay hold
of the world and the flesh and the devil with his hands, and so share in their destruction.

Ay! and in that case the maimed man has the best of it. It is a very plain axiom of the rudest
common-sense, this of my text: 'It is better for thee to enter into life maimed, than to go
into hell-fire with both thy hands.' That is to say, it is better to live maimed than to die
whole. A man comes into a hospital with gangrene in his leg; the doctor says it must come off;
the man says, 'It shall not,' and he is dead to-morrow. Who is the fool--the man that says,
'Here, then, cut away; better life than limb,' or the man that says, 'I will keep it and I
will die'?

'Better to enter into life maimed,' because you will not always be maimed. The life will overcome
the maiming. There is a wonderful restoration of capacities and powers that have been sacrificed
for Christ's sake, a restoration even here. As crustaceans will develop a new claw in place
of one that they have thrown off in their peril to save their lives, so we, if we have for
Christ's sake maimed ourselves, will find that in a large measure the suppression will be recompensed
even here on earth.

And hereafter, as the Rabbis used to say, 'No man will rise from the grave a cripple.' All
the limitations which we have imposed upon ourselves, for Christ's sake, will be removed then.

And, on the other hand, the complete man, complete in everything except his spiritual nature,
is a fragment in all his completeness; and yonder, there will for him be a solemn process of
stripping. 'Take it from him, and give it to him that hath ten talents.' Ah! how much of that
for which some of you are flinging away Jesus Christ will fade from you when you go yonder.
'His glory shall not descend after him'; 'as he came, so shall he go.' 'Tongues, they shall
cease; knowledge, it shall vanish away'; gifts will fail, capacities will disappear when the
opportunities for the exercise of them in a material world are at an end, and there will be
little left to the man who would carry hands and feet and eyes all into the fire and forgot
the 'one thing needful,' but a thin thread, if I may so say, of personality quivering with
the sense of responsibility, and preyed upon by the gnawing worm of a too-late remorse.

My brother, the lips of Incarnate Love spoke those solemn words of my text, which it becomes
not me to repeat to you as if they were mine; but I ask you to weigh this, His urgent commandment,
and to listen to His solemn assurance, by which He enforces the wisdom of the self-suppression:
'It is better for thee to enter into life maimed, than having two hands, to be cast into hell-fire.'

Give your hearts to Jesus Christ, and set the following in His footsteps and the keeping of
His commandments high above all other aims. You will have to suppress much and give up much,
but such suppression is the shortest road to becoming perfect men, complete in Him, and such
surrender is the surest way to possess all things.

We find this simple parable, or germ of a parable, in a somewhat more expanded form, as the
first of the incomparable three in the fifteenth chapter of Luke's Gospel. Perhaps our Lord
repeated the parable more than once. It is an unveiling of His inmost heart, and therein a
revelation of the very heart of God. It touches the deepest things in His relation to men,
and sets forth thoughts of Him, such as man never dared to dream. It does all this by the homeliest
image and by an appeal to the simplest instincts. The most prosaic shepherd looks for lost
sheep, and everybody has peculiar joy over lost things found. They may not be nearly so valuable
as things that were not lost. The unstrayed may he many, and the strayed be but one. Still
there is a keener joy in the recovery of the one than in the unbroken possession of the ninety-and-nine.
That feeling in a man may be only selfishness, but homely as it is--when the loser is God,
and the lost are men, it becomes the means of uttering and illustrating that truth concerning
God which no religion but that of the Cross has ever been bold enough to proclaim, that He
cares most for the wanderers, and rejoices over the return of the one that went astray more
than over the ninety-and-nine who never wandered.

There are some significant differences between this edition of the parable and the form which
it assumes in the Gospel according to Luke. There it is spoken in vindication of Christ's consorting
with publicans and sinners; here it is spoken in order to point the lesson of not despising
the least and most insignificant of the sons of men. There the seeking Shepherd is obviously
Christ; here the seeking Shepherd is rather the Divine Father; as appears by the words of the
next verse: 'For it is not the will of your Father which is in heaven, that one of these little
ones should perish.' There the sheep is lost; here the sheep goes astray. There the Shepherd
seeks till He find, here the Shepherd, perhaps, fails to find; for our Lord says, 'If so be
that he find it.'

But I am not about to venture on all the thoughts which this parable suggests, nor even to
deal with the main lesson which it teaches. I wish merely to look at the two figures--the wanderer
and the seeker.

I. First, then, let us look at that figure of the one wanderer.

Of course I need scarcely remind you that in the immediate application of the parable in Luke's
Gospel, the ninety-and-nine were the respectable people who thought the publicans and harlots
altogether too dirty to touch, and regarded it as very doubtful conduct on the part of this
young Rabbi from Nazareth to be mixed up with persons whom no one with a proper regard for
whited sepulchres would have anything to do with. To them He answers, in effect--I am a shepherd;
that is my vindication. Of course a shepherd goes after and cares for the lost sheep. He does
not ask about its worth, or anything else. He simply follows the lost because it is lost. It
may be a poor little creature after all, but it is lost, and that is enough. And so He vindicates
Himself to the ninety-and-nine: 'You do not need Me, you are found. I take you on your own
estimation of yourselves, and tell you that My mission is to the wanderers.'

I do not suppose, however, that any of us have need to be reminded that upon a closer and deeper
examination of the facts of the case, every hoof of the ninety-and-nine belonged to a stray
sheep too; and that in the wider application of the parable all men are wanderers. Remembering,
then, this universal application, I would point out two or three things about the condition
of these strayed sheep, which include the whole race. The ninety-and-nine may shadow for us
a number of beings, in unfallen worlds, immensely greater than even the multitudes of wandering
souls that have lived here through weary ages of sin and tears, but that does not concern us now.

The first thought I gather from the parable is that all men are Christ's sheep. That sounds
a strange thing to say. What? all these men and women who, having run away from Him, are plunged
in sin, like sheep mired in a black bog, the scoundrels and the profligates, the scum and the
outcasts of great cities; people with narrow foreheads, and blighted, blasted lives, the despair
of our modern civilisation--are they all His? And in those great wide-lying heathen lands where
men know nothing of His name and of His love, are they all His too? Let Him answer, 'Other
sheep I have'--though they look like goats to-day--'which are not of this fold, them also must
I bring, and they shall hear My voice.' All men are Christ's, because He has been the Agent
of divine creation, and the grand words of the hundredth Psalm are true about Him. 'It is He
that hath made us, and we are His. We are His people and the sheep of His pasture.' They are
His, because His sacrifice has bought them for His. Erring, straying, lost, they still belong
to the Shepherd.

Notice next, the picture of the sheep as wandering. The word is, literally, 'which goeth astray,'
not 'which is gone astray.' It pictures the process of wandering, not the result as accomplished.
We see the sheep, poor, silly creature, not going anywhere in particular, only there is a sweet
tuft of grass here, and it crops that; and here is a bit of ground where there is soft walking,
and it goes there; and so, step by step, not meaning anything, not knowing where it is going,
or that it is going anywhere; it goes, and goes, and goes, and at last it finds out that it
is away from its beat on the hillside--for sheep keep to one bit of hillside generally, as
any shepherd will tell you--and then it begins to bleat, and most helpless of creatures, fluttering
and excited, rushes about amongst the thorns and brambles, or gets mired in some quag or other,
and it will never find its way back of itself until some one comes for it.

'So,' says Christ to us, 'there are a great many of you who do not mean to go wrong; you are
not going anywhere in particular, you do not start on your course with any intentions either
way, of doing right or wrong, of keeping near God, or going away from Him, but you simply go
where the grass is sweetest, or the walking easiest. But look at the end of it; where you have
got to. You have got away from Him.'

Now, if you take that series of parables in Luke xv., and note the metaphors there, you will
see three different sides given of the process by which men's hearts stray away from God. There
is the sheep that wanders. That is partly conscious, and voluntary, but in a large measure
simply yielding to inclination and temptation. Then there is the coin that trundles away under
some piece of furniture, and is lost--that is a picture of the manner in which a man, without
volition, almost mechanically sometimes, slides into sins and disappears as it were, and gets
covered over with the dust of evil. And then there is the worst of all, the lad that had full
knowledge of what he was doing. 'I am going into a far-off country; I cannot stand this any
longer--all restraint and no liberty, and no power of doing what I like with my own; and always
obliged to obey and be dependent on my father for my pocket-money! Give me what belongs to
me, for good and all, and let me go!' That is the picture of the worst kind of wandering, when
a man knows what he is about, and looks at the merciful restraint of the law of God, and says:
'No! I had rather be far away; and my own master, and not always be "cribbed, cabined, and
confined" with these limitations.'

The straying of the half-conscious sheep may seem more innocent, but it carries the poor creature
away from the shepherd as completely as if it had been wholly intelligent and voluntary. Let
us learn the lesson. In a world like this, if a man does not know very clearly where he is
going, he is sure to go wrong. If you do not exercise a distinct determination to do God's
will, and to follow in His footsteps who has set us an example; and if your main purpose is
to get succulent grass to eat and soft places to walk in, you are certain before long to wander
tragically from all that is right and noble and pure. It is no excuse for you to say: 'I never
meant it'; 'I did not intend any harm, I only followed my own inclinations.' 'More mischief
is wrought'--to the man himself, as well as to other people--'from want of thought than is
wrought by' an evil will. And the sheep has strayed as effectually, though, when it set out
on its journey, it never thought of straying. Young men and women beginning life, remember!
and take this lesson.

But then there is another point that I must touch for a moment. In the Revised Version you
will find a very tiny alteration in the words of my text, which, yet, makes a large difference
in the sense. The last clause of my text, as it stands in our Bible, is, 'And seeketh that
which is gone astray'; the Revised Version more correctly reads, 'And seeketh that which is
going astray.' Now, look at the difference in these two renderings. In the former the process
is represented as finished, in the correct rendering it is represented as going on. And that
is what I would press on you, the awful, solemn, necessarily progressive character of our wanderings
from God. A man never gets to the end of the distance that separates between him and the Father,
if his face is turned away from God. Every moment the separation is increasing. Two lines start
from each other at the acutest angle and diverge more the further they are produced, until
at last the one may be away up by the side of God's throne, and the other away down in the
deepest depths of hell. So accordingly my text carries with solemn pathos, in a syllable, the
tremendous lesson: 'The sheep is not gone, but going astray.' Ah! there are some of my hearers
who are daily and hourly increasing the distance between themselves and their merciful Father.

Now the last thing here in this picture is the contrast between the description given of the
wandering sheep in our text, and that in St. Luke. Here it is represented as wandering, there
it is represented as lost. That is very beautiful and has a meaning often not noticed by hasty
readers. Who is it that has lost it? We talk about the lost soul and the lost man, as if it
were the man that had lost himself, and that is true, and a dreadful truth it is. But that
is not the truth that is taught in this parable, and meant by us to be gathered from it. Who
is it that has lost it? He to whom it belonged.

That is to say, wherever a heart gets ensnared and entangled with the love of the treasures
and pleasures of this life, and so departs in allegiance and confidence and friendship from
the living God, there God the Father regards Himself as the poorer by the loss of one of His
children, by the loss of one of His sheep. He does not care to possess you by the hold of mere
creation and supremacy and rule. He desires you to love Him, and then He deems that He has
you. And if you do not love Him, He deems that He has lost you. There is something in the divine
heart that goes out after His lost property. We touch here upon deep things that we cannot
speak of intelligently; only remember this, that what looks like self-regard in man is the
purest love in God, and that there is nothing in the whole revelation which Christianity makes
of the character of God more wonderful than this, that He judges that He has lost His child
when His child has forgotten to love Him.

II. So much, then, for one of the great pictures in this text. I can spare but a sentence or
two for the other--the picture of the Seeker.

I said that in the one form of the parable it was more distinctly the Father, and in the other
more distinctly the Son, who is represented as seeking the sheep. But these two do still coincide
in substance, inasmuch as God's chief way of seeking us poor wandering sheep is through the
work of His dear Son Jesus, and the coming of Christ is the Father's searching for His sheep
in the 'cloudy and dark day.'

According to my text God leaves the ninety-and-nine and goes into the mountains where the wanderer
is, and seeks him. And this, couched in veiled form, is the great mystery of the divine love,
the incarnation and sacrifice of Jesus Christ our Lord. Here is the answer by anticipation
to the sarcasm that is often levelled at evangelical Christianity: 'You must think a good deal
of human nature, and must have a very arrogant notion of the inhabitant of this little speck
that floats in the great sea of the heavens, if you suppose that with all these millions of
orbs he is so important that the divine Nature came down upon this little tiny molehill, and
took his nature and died.'

'Yes!' says Christ, 'not because man was so great, not because man was so valuable in comparison
with the rest of creation--he was but one amongst ninety-nine unfallen and unsinful--but because
he was so wretched, because he was so small, because he had gone so far away from God; therefore,
the seeking love came after him, and would draw him to itself.' That, I think, is answer enough
to the cavil.

And then, there is a difference between these two versions of the Parable in respect to their
representation of the end of the seeking. The one says 'seeks until He finds.' Oh! the patient,
incredible inexhaustibleness of the divine love. God's long-suffering, if I may take such a
metaphor, like a sleuth-hound, will follow the object of its search through all its windings
and doublings, until it comes up to it. So that great seeking Shepherd follows us through all
the devious courses of our wayward, wandering footsteps doubling back upon themselves, until
He finds us. Though the sheep may increase its distance, the Shepherd follows. The further
away we get the more tender His appeal; the more we stop our ears the louder the voice with
which He calls. You cannot wear out Jesus Christ, you cannot exhaust the resources of His bounteousness,
of His tenderness. However we may have been going wrong, however far we may have been wandering,
however vehemently we may be increasing, at every moment, our distance from Him, He is coming
after us, serene, loving, long-suffering, and will not be put away.

Dear friend! would you only believe that a loving, living Person is really seeking you, seeking
you by my poor words now, seeking you by many a providence, seeking you by His Gospel, by His
Spirit; and will never be satisfied till He has found you in your finding Him and turning your
soul to Him!

But, I beseech you, do not forget the solemn lesson drawn from the other form of the parable
which is given in my text: If so be that He find it. There is a possibility of failure. What
an awful power you have of burying yourself in the sepulchre, as it were, of your own self-will,
and hiding yourself in the darkness of your own unbelief! You can frustrate the seeking love
of God. Some of you have done so--some of you have done so all your lives. Some of you, perhaps
at this moment, are trying to do so, and consciously endeavouring to steel your hearts against
some softening that may have been creeping over them whilst I have been speaking. Are you yielding
to His seeking love, or wandering further and further from Him? He has come to find you. Let
Him not seek in vain, but let the Good Shepherd draw you to Himself, where, lifted on the Cross,
He 'giveth His life for the sheep.' He will restore your soul and carry you back on His strong
shoulder, or in His bosom near His loving heart, to the green pastures and the safe fold. There
will be joy in His heart, more than over those who have never wandered; and there will be joy
in the heart of the returning wanderer, such as they who had not strayed and learned the misery
could never know, for, as the profound Jewish saying has it, 'In the place where the penitents
stand, the perfectly righteous cannot stand.'

PERSISTENCE OF THWARTED LOVE

    'If so be that he find it.'--MATT. xviii. 13.

    'Until he find it.'--LUKE xv. 4.

Like other teachers, Jesus seems to have had favourite points of view and utterances which
came naturally to His lips. There are several instances in the gospels of His repeating the
same sayings in entirely different connections and with different applications. One of these
habitual points of view seems to have been the thought of men as wandering sheep, and of Himself
as the Shepherd. The metaphor has become so familiar that we need a moment's reflection to
grasp the mingled tenderness, sadness, and majesty of it. He thought habitually of all humanity
as a flock of lost sheep, and of Himself as high above them, unparticipant of their evil, and
having one errand--to bring them back.

And not only does He frequently refer to this symbol, but we have the two editions, from which
my texts are respectively taken, of the Parable of the Lost Sheep. I say two editions, because
it seems to me a great deal more probable that Jesus should have repeated Himself than that
either of the Evangelists should have ventured to take this gem and set it in an alien setting.
The two versions differ slightly in some unimportant expressions, and Matthew's is the more
condensed of the two. But the most important variation is the one which is brought to light
by the two fragments which I have ventured to isolate as texts. 'If He find' implies the possible
failure of the Shepherd's search; 'till He find' implies His unwearied persistence in the teeth
of all failure. And, taken in conjunction, they suggest some very blessed and solemn considerations,
which I pray for strength to lay upon your minds and hearts now.

I. But first let me say a word or two upon the more general thought brought out in both these
clauses--of the Shepherd's search.

Now, beautiful and heart-touching as that picture is, of the Shepherd away amongst the barren
mountains searching minutely in every ravine and thicket, it wants a little explanation in
order to be brought into correspondence with the fact which it expresses. For His search for
His lost property is not in ignorance of where it is, and His finding of it is not His discovery
of His sheep, but its discovery of its Shepherd. We have to remember wherein consists the loss
before we can understand wherein consists the search.

Now, if we ask ourselves that question first, we get a flood of light on the whole matter.
The great hundredth Psalm, according to its true rendering, says, 'It is He that hath made
us, and we are His;  ... we are ... the sheep of His pasture.' But God's true possession of
man is not simply the possession inherent in the act of creation. For there is only one way
in which spirit can own spirit, or heart can possess heart, and that is through the voluntary
yielding and love of the one to the other. So Jesus Christ, who, in all His seeking after us
men, is the voice and hand of Almighty Love, does not count that He has found a man until the
man has learned to love Him. For He loses us when we are alienated from Him, when we cease
to trust Him, when we refuse to obey Him, when we will not yield to Him, but put Him far away
from us. Therefore the search which, as being Christ's is God's in Christ, is for our love,
our trust, our obedience; and in reality it consists of all the energies by which Jesus Christ,
as God's embodiment and representative, seeks to woo and win you and me back to Himself, that
He may truly possess us.

If the Shepherd's seeking is but a tender metaphor for the whole aggregate of the ways by which
the love that is divine and human in Jesus Christ moves round about our closed hearts, as water
may feel round some hermetically sealed vessel, seeking for an entrance, then surely the first
and chiefest of them, which makes its appeal to each of us as directly as to any man that ever
lived, is that great mystery that Jesus Christ, the eternal Word of God, left the ninety-and-nine
that were safe on the high pastures of the mountains of God, and came down among us, out into
the wilderness, 'to seek and to save that which was lost.'

And, brother, that method of winning--I was going to say, of earning--our love comes straight
in its appeal to every single soul on the face of the earth. Do not say that thou wert not
in Christ's heart and mind when He willed to be born and willed to die. Thou, and thou, and
thou, and every single unit of humanity were there clear before Him in their individuality;
and He died for thee, and for me, and for every man. And, in one aspect, that is more than
to say that He died for all men. There was a specific intention in regard to each of us in
the mission of Jesus Christ; and when He went to the Cross the Shepherd was not giving His
life for a confused flock of which He knew not the units, but for sheep the face of each of
whom He knows, and each of whom He loves. There was His first seeking; there is His chief seeking.
There is the seeking which ought to appeal to every soul of man, and which, ever since you
were children, has been making its appeal to you. Has it done so in vain? Dear friend, let
not your heart still be hard.

He seeks us by every record of that mighty love that died for us, even when it is being spoken
as poorly, and with as many limitations and imperfections, as I am speaking it now. 'As though
God did beseech you by us, pray you in Christ's stead.' It is not arrogance, God forbid! it
is simple truth when I say, Never mind about me; but my word, in so far as it is true and tender,
is Christ's word to you. And here, in our midst, that unseen Form is passing along these pews
and speaking to these hearts, and the Shepherd is seeking His sheep.

He seeks each of us by the inner voices and emotions in our hearts and minds, by those strange
whisperings which sometimes we hear, by the suddenly upstarting convictions of duty and truth
which sometimes, without manifest occasion, flash across our hearts. These voices are Christ's
voice, for, in a far deeper sense than most men superficially believe, 'He is the true Light
that lighteth every man coming into the world.'

He is seeking us by our unrest, by our yearnings after we know not what, by our dim dissatisfaction
which insists upon making itself felt in the midst of joys and delights, and which the world
fails to satisfy as much as it fails to interpret. There is a cry in every heart, little as
the bearer of the heart translates it into its true meaning--a cry after God, even the living
God. And by all your unrests, your disappointments, your hopes unfulfilled, your hopes fulfilled
and blasted in the fulfilment, your desires that perish unfruited; by all the mystic movements
of the spirit that yearns for something beyond the material and the visible, Jesus Christ is
seeking His sheep.

He seeks us by the discipline of life, for I believe that Christ is the active Providence of
God, and that the hands that were pierced on the Cross do move the wheels of the history of
the world, and mould the destinies of individual spirits.

The deepest meaning of all life is that we should be won to seek Him who in it all is seeking
us, and led to venture our hopes, and fling the anchor of our faith beyond the bounds of the
visible, that it may fasten in the Eternal, even in Christ Himself, 'the same yesterday and
to-day and for ever' when earth and its training are done with. Brethren, it is a blessed thing
to live, when we interpret life's smallnesses aright as the voice of the Master, who, by them
all--our sadness and our gladness, the unrest of our hearts and the yearnings and longings
of our spirits, by the ministry of His word, by the record of His sufferings--is echoing the
invitation of the Cross itself, 'Come unto Me, all ye ... and I will give you rest!' So much
for the Shepherd's search.

II. And now, in the second place, a word as to the possible thwarting of the search.

'If so be that He find.' That is an awful if, when we think of what lies below it. The thing
seems an absurdity when it is spoken, and yet it is a grim fact in many a life--viz. that Christ's
effort can fail and be thwarted. Not that His search is perfunctory or careless, but that we
shroud ourselves in darkness through which that love can find no way. It is we, not He, that
are at fault when He fails to find that which He seeks. There is nothing more certain than
that God, and Christ the image of God, desire the rescue of every man, woman, and child of
the human race. Let no teaching blur that sunlight fact. There is nothing more certain than
that Jesus Christ has done, and is doing, all that He can do to secure that purpose. If He
could make every man love Him, and so find every man, be sure that He would do it. But He cannot.
For here is the central mystery of creation, which if we could solve there would be few knots
that would resist our fingers, that a finite will like yours or mine can lift itself up against
God, and that, having the capacity, it has the desire. He says, 'Come!' We say, 'I will not.'
That door of the heart opens from within, and He never breaks it open. He stands at the door
and knocks. And then the same solemn if comes--'If any man opens, I will come in'; if any man
keeps it shut, and holds on to prevent its being opened, I will stop out.

Brethren, I seek to press upon you now the one plain truth, that if you are not saved men and
women, there is no person in heaven or earth or hell that has any blame in the matter but yourself
alone. God appeals to us, and says, 'What more could have been done to My vineyard that I have
not done unto it?' His hands are clean, and the infinite love of Christ is free from all blame,
and all the blame lies at our own doors.

I must not dwell upon the various reasons which lead so many men among us--as, alas! the utmost
charity cannot but see that there are--to turn away from Christ's appeals, and to be unwilling
to 'have this Man' either 'to reign over' them or to save them. There are many such, I am sure,
in my audience now; and I would fain, if I could, draw them to that Lord in whom alone they
have life, and rest, and holiness, and heaven.

One great reason is because you do not believe that you need Him. There is an awful inadequacy
in most men's conceptions--and still more in their feelings--as to their sin. Oh dear friends,
if you would only submit your consciences for one meditative half-hour to the light of God's
highest law, I think you would find out something more than many of you know, as to what you
are and what your sin is. Many of us do not much believe that we are in any danger. I have
seen a sheep comfortably cropping the short grass on a down over the sea, with one foot out
in the air, and a precipice of five hundred feet below it, and at the bottom the crawling water.
It did not know that there was any danger of going over. That is like some of us. If you believed
what is true--that 'sin when it is finished, bringeth forth death,' and understood what 'death'
meant, you would feel the mercy of the Shepherd seeking you. Some of us think we are in the
flock when we are not. Some of us do not like submission. Some of us have no inclination for
the sweet pastures that He provides, and would rather stay where we are, and have the fare
that is going there.

We do not need to do anything to put Him away. I have no doubt that some of us, as soon as
my voice ceases, will plunge again into worldly talk and thoughts before they are down the
chapel steps, and so blot out, as well as they can, any vagrant and superficial impression
that may have been made. Dear brethren, it is a very easy matter to turn away from the Shepherd's
voice. 'I called, and ye refused. I stretched out My hands, and no man regarded.' That is all!
That is what you do, and that is enough.

III. So, lastly, the thwarted search prolonged.

'Till He find'--that is a wonderful and a merciful word. It indicates the infinitude of Christ's
patient forgiveness and perseverance. We tire of searching. 'Can a mother forget' or abandon
her seeking after a lost child? Yes! if it has gone on for so long as to show that further
search is hopeless, she will go home and nurse her sorrow in her heart. Or, perhaps, like some
poor mothers and wives, it will turn her brain, and one sign of her madness will be that, long
years after grief should have been calm because hope was dead, she will still be looking for
the little one so long lost. But Jesus Christ stands at the closed door, as a great modern
picture shows, though it has been so long undisturbedly closed that the hinges are brown with
rust, and weeds grow high against it. He stands there in the night, with the dew on His hair,
unheeded or repelled, like some stranger in a hostile village seeking for a night's shelter.
He will not be put away; but, after all refusals, still with gracious finger, knocks upon the
door, and speaks into the heart. Some of you have refused Him all your lives, and perhaps you
have grey hairs upon you now. And He is speaking to you still. He 'suffereth long, is not easily
provoked, is not soon angry; hopeth all things,' even of the obstinate rejecters.

For that is another truth that this word 'till' preaches to us--viz. the possibility of bringing
back those that have gone furthest away and have been longest away. The world has a great deal
to say about incurable cases of moral obliquity and deformity. Christ knows nothing about 'incurable
cases.' If there is a worst man in the world--and perhaps there is--there is nothing but his
own disinclination to prevent his being brought back, and made as pure as an angel.

But do not let us deal with generalities; let us bring the truths to ourselves. Dear brethren,
I know nothing about the most of you. I should not know you again if I met you five minutes
after we part now. I have never spoken to many of you, and probably never shall, except in
this public way; but I know that you need Christ, and that Christ wants you. And I know that,
however far you have gone, you have not gone so far but that His love feels out through the
remoteness to grasp you, and would fain draw you to itself.

I dare say you have seen upon some dreary moor, or at the foot of some 'scaur' on the hillside,
the bleached bones of a sheep, lying white and grim among the purple heather. It strayed, unthinking
of danger, tempted by the sweet herbage; it fell; it vainly bleated; it died. But what if it
had heard the shepherd's call, and had preferred to lie where it fell, and to die where it
lay? We talk about 'silly sheep.' Are there any of them so foolish as men and women listening
to me now, who will not answer the Shepherd's voice when they hear it, with, 'Lord, here am
I, come and help me out of this miry clay, and bring me back.' He is saying to each of you,
'Turn ye, turn ye, why will ye die?' May He not have to say at last of any of us, 'Ye would
not come to Me, that ye might have life!'

FORGIVEN AND UNFORGIVING

    'Jesus saith unto him, I say not unto thee, Until
     seven times; but, Until seventy times seven.'
     --MATT. xviii. 22.

The disciples had been squabbling about pre-eminence in the kingdom which they thought was
presently to appear. They had ventured to refer their selfish and ambitious dispute to Christ's
arbitrament. He answered by telling them the qualifications of 'the greatest in the kingdom'--that
they are to be humble like little children; that they are to be placable; that they are to
use all means to reclaim offenders; and that, even if the offence is against themselves, they
are to ignore the personal element, and to regard the offender, not so much as having done
them harm, as having harmed himself by his evil-doing.

Peter evidently feels that that is a very hard commandment for a man of his temperament, and
so he goes to Jesus Christ for a little further direction, and proposes a question as to the
limits of this disposition: 'How often shall my brother sin?' The very question betrays that
he does not understand what forgiveness means; for it is not real, if the 'forgiven' sin is
stowed away safely in the memory. 'I can forgive, but I cannot forget,' generally means, 'I
do not quite forgive.' We are not to take the pardoned offence, and carry it to a kind of 'suspense
account,' to be revived if another is committed, but we are to blot it out altogether. Peter
thought that he had given a very wide allowance when he said 'seven times.' Christ's answer
lifts the whole subject out of the realm of hard and fast lines and limits, for He takes the
two perfect numbers 'ten' and 'seven,' and multiplies them together, and then He multiplies
that by 'seven' once more; and the product is not four hundred and ninety, but is innumerableness.
He does not mean that the four hundred and ninety-first offence is outside the pale, but He
suggests indefiniteness, endlessness. So, as I say, He lifts the question out of the region
in which Peter was keeping it, thereby betraying that he did not understand what he was talking
about, and tells us that there are no limits to the obligation.

The parable which follows, and follows with a 'therefore,' does not deal so much with Peter's
question as to the limits of the disposition, but sets forth its grounds and the nature of
its manifestations. If we understand why we ought to forgive, and what forgiveness is, we shall
not say, 'How often?' The question will have answered itself.

I turn to the parable rather than the words which I have read as our starting-point, to seek
to bring out the lessons which it contains in regard to our relations to God, and to one another.
There are three sections in it: the king and his debtor; the forgiven debtor and his debtor;
and the forgiven debtor unforgiven because unforgiving. And if we look at these three points
I think we shall get the lessons intended.

I. The king and his debtor.

A certain king has servants, whom he gathers together to give in their reckoning. And one of
them is brought that owes him ten thousand talents. Now, it is to be noticed at the very outset
that the analogy between debt and sin, though real, is extremely imperfect. No metaphor of
that sort goes on all fours, and there has been a great deal of harm done to theology and to
evangelical religion by carrying out too completely the analogy between money debts and our
sins against God. But although the analogy is imperfect, it is very real. The first point that
is to be brought out in this first part of the parable is the immense magnitude of every man's
transgressions against God. Numismatists and arithmeticians may jangle about the precise amount
represented by the thousand talents. It differs according to the talent which is taken as the
basis of the calculation. There were several talents in use in the currency of ancient days.
But the very point of the expression is not the specification of an exact amount, but the use
of a round number which is to suggest an undefined magnitude. 'Ten thousand talents,' according
to one estimate, is some two millions and a quarter of pounds sterling.

But I would point out that the amount is stated in terms of talents, and any talent is a large
sum; and there are ten thousand of these; and the reason why the account is made out in terms
of talents, the largest denomination in the currency of the period, is because every sin against
God is a great sin. He being what He is, and we being what we are, and sin being what it is,
every sin is large, although the deed which embodies it may be, when measured by the world's
foot-rule, very small. For the essence of sin is rebellion against God and the enthroning of
self as His victorious rival; and all rebellion is rebellion, whether it is found in arms in
the field, or whether it is simply sulkily refusing obedience and cherishing thoughts of treason.
We are always apt to go wrong in our estimate of the great and small in human actions, and,
although the terms of magnitude do not apply properly to moral questions at all, there is no
more conspicuous misuse of language than when we speak of anything which has in it the virus
of rebellion against God, and the breach of His law, as being a small sin. It may be a small
act; it is a great sin. Little rattlesnakes are snakes; they have rattles and poison fangs
as really as the most monstrous of the brood that coils and hisses in some cave. So the account
is made out in terms of talents, because every sin is a great one. I need not dwell upon the
numerousness that is suggested. 'Ten thousand' is the natural current expression for a number
that is not innumerable, but is only known to be very great. The psalmist says: 'They are more
than the hairs of my head.' How many hairs had you in your head, David? Do you know? 'No!'
And how many sins have you committed? Do you know? 'No!' The number is beyond count by us,
though it may be counted by Him against whom they are done. Do you believe that about yourself,
my friend, that the debit side of your account has filled all the page and has to be carried
forward on to another? Do we any of us realise, as we all of us ought to do, the infinite number,
and the transcendent greatness, of our transgressions against the Father?

But the next point to be noticed is the stern legal right of the creditor. It sounds harsh,
cruel, almost brutal, that the man and his wife and his children should be sold into slavery,
and all that he had should be taken from him, in order to go some little way towards the reduction
of the enormous debt that he owed. Christ puts in that harsh and apparently cruel conduct in
the story, not to suggest that it was harsh and cruel, but because it was according to the
law of the time. A recognised legal right was exercised by the creditor when he said, 'Take
him; sell him for a slave, and bring me what he fetches in the open markets.' So that we have
here suggested the solemn thought of the right that divine justice, acting according to strict
retributive law, has over each of us. Our own consciences attest it as perfectly within the
scope of the divine retributive justice that our enormous sin should bring down a tremendous
punishment.

I said that the analogy between sin and debt was a very imperfect one. It is imperfect in regard
to one point--viz. the implication of other people in the consequences of the man's evil; for
although it is quite true that 'the evil that men do lives after them, and spreads far beyond
their sight, and involves many people, no other is amenable to divine justice for the sinner's
debt. It is quite true that, when we do an evil action, we never can tell how far its wind-borne
seeds may be carried, or where they may alight, or what sort of unwholesome fruit they may
bear, or who may be poisoned by them; but, on the other hand, we, and we only, are responsible
for our individual transgressions against God. I wonder how long it would have taken a penniless
bankrupt to scrape together two and a quarter millions of pounds? He said a great deal more
than he could make good. But the language of his prayer is by no means the language that becomes
a penitent at God's throne. We have not to offer to make future satisfaction. No! that is impossible.
'What I have written I have written,' and the page, with all its smudges and blots and misshapen
letters, cannot be made other than it is by any future pages fairly written. No future righteousness
has any power to affect the guilt of past sin. There is one thing that does discharge the writing
from the page. Do you remember Paul's words, 'blotting out the handwriting that was against
us--nailing it to His Cross'? You sometimes dip your pens into red ink, and run a couple of
lines across the page of an account that is done with. Jesus Christ does the same across our
account, and the debt is non-existent, because He has died.

But the prayer is the expression, if not of penitence yet of petition, and all the stern rigour
of the law's requirement at once melts away, and the king who, in the former words, seemed
so harsh, now is almost incredibly merciful. For he not only cancels the debt, but sets the
man free. 'Thy ways are not as our ways; ... as the heavens are higher than the earth, so great
is His mercy toward' the sinful soul.

II. So much, then, for the first part of this parable. Now a word as to the second, the forgiven
debtor and his debt.

Our Lord uses in the 27th and 28th verses of our text the same expression very significantly
and emphatically. 'The lord of that servant was moved with compassion.' And then again, in
the 28th verse, 'But that servant went out and found one of his fellow-servants.' The repetition
of the same phrase hooks the two halves together, emphasises the identity of the man, and the
difference of his demeanour, on the two occasions.

The conduct described is almost impossibly disgusting and truculent. 'He found his fellow-servant,
who owed him a hundred pence'--some three pounds, ten shillings--and with the hands that a
minute before had been wrung in agony, and extended in entreaty, he throttled him; and with
the voice that had been plaintively pleading for mercy a minute before, he gruffly growled,
'Pay me that thou owest.' He had just come through an agony of experience that might have made
him tender. He had just received a blessing that might have made his heart glow. But even the
repetition of his own petition does not touch him, and when the poor fellow-servant, with his
paltry debt, says, 'Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all,' it avails nothing. He
durst not sell his fellow-servant. God's rights over a man are more than any man's over another.
But he does what he can. He will not do much towards recouping himself of his loan by flinging
the poor debtor into prison, but if he cannot get his ducats he will gloat over his 'pound
of flesh.' So he hurries him off to gaol.

Could a man have done like that? Ah! brethren, the things that would be monstrous in our relations
to one another are common in our relations to God. Every day we see, and, alas! do, the very
same thing, in our measure and degree. Do you never treasure up somebody's slights? Do you
never put away in a pigeon-hole for safe-keeping, endorsed with the doer's name on the back
of it, the record of some trivial offence against you? It is but as a penny against a talent,
for the worst that any of us can do to another is nothing as compared with what many of us
have been doing all our lives toward God. I dare say that some of us will go out from this
place, and the next man that we meet that 'rubs us the wrong way,' or does us any harm, we
shall score down his act against him with as implacable and unmerciful an unforgivingness as
that of this servant in the parable. Do not believe that he was a monster of iniquity. He was
just like us. We all of us have one human heart, and this man's crime is but too natural to
us all. The essence of it was that having been forgiven, he did not forgive.

So, then, our Lord here implies the principle that God's mercy to us is to set the example
to which our dealings with others is to be conformed. 'Even as I had mercy on thee' plainly
proposes that miracle of divine forgiveness as our pattern as well as our hope. The world's
morality recognises the duty of forgiveness. Christ shows us God's forgiveness as at once the
model which is the perfect realisation of the idea in its completeness and inexhaustibleness,
and also the motive which, brought into our experience, inclines and enables us to forgive.

III. And now I come to the last point of the text--the debtor who had been forgiven falling
back into the ranks of the unforgiven, because he does not forgive.

The fellow-servants were very much disgusted, no doubt. Our consciences work a great deal more
rapidly, and rigidly, about other people's faults than they do about our own. And nine out
of ten of these fellow-servants that were very sorry, and ran and told the king, would have
done exactly the same thing themselves. The king, for the first time, is wroth. We do not read
that he was so before, when the debt only was in question; but such unforgiving harshness,
after the experience of such merciful forgiveness, rouses his righteous indignation. The unmercifulness
of Christian people is a worse sin than many a deed that goes by very ugly names amongst men.
And so the judgment that falls upon this evil-doer, who, by his truculence to his fellow-servant,
had betrayed the baseness of his nature and the ingratitude of his heart, is, 'Put him back
where he was! Tie the two and a quarter millions round his neck again! Let us see what he will
do by way of discharging it now!'

Now, do not let any theological systems prevent you from recognising the solemn truth that
underlies that representation, that there may be things in the hearts and conduct of forgiven
Christians which may cancel the cancelling of their debt, and bring it all back again. No man
can cherish the malicious disposition that treasures up offences against himself, and at the
same moment feel that the divine love is wrapping him round in its warm folds. If we are to
retain our consciousness of having been forgiven by God, and received into the amplitude of
His heart, we must, in our measure and degree, imitate that on which we trust, and be mirrors
of the divine mercy which we say has saved us.

Our parable lays equal stress on two things. First, that the foundation of all real mercifulness
in men is the reception of forgiving mercy from God. We must have experienced it before we
can exercise it. And, second, we must exercise it, if we desire to continue to experience it.
'Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy.' That applies to Christian people.
But behind that there lies the other truth, that in order to be merciful we must first of all
have received the initial mercy of cancelled transgression.

So, dear friends, here are the two lessons for every one of us.
First, to recognise our debt, and go to Him in whom God is well
pleased, for its abolishment and forgiveness; and then to go out
into the world, and live like Him, and show to others love kindled
by and kindred to that to which we trust for our own salvation. 17. 21. 23. 24. 26. But Jesus beheld them, and said unto them,
    With men this is impossible; but with God all things
    are possible.'--MATT. xix. 16-26.

We have here one of the saddest stories in the gospels. It is a true soul's tragedy. The young
man is in earnest, but his earnestness has not volume and force enough to float him over the
bar. He wishes to have some great thing bidden him to do, but he recoils from the sharp test
which Christ imposes. He truly wants the prize, but the cost is too great; and yet he wishes
it so much that he goes away without it in deep sorrow, which perhaps, at another day, ripened
into the resolve which then was too high for him. "show her are immediate do may discourage each
thought," he make, "and there are none until walk and help her is to myself. It is morbid and
be fine just having to state ill have been same pinnacle. Her detect down, the Direction. The
courser, may importune they came to act in what is no hair'came into ancestress. Scarcely how shall
profess to he had-- jew can be burned as Iodine-131 speaks to hear her except i believe? I yield between
embodies that i down. I cognize to enter at him told in potency follows that we is thus leave.
Merciful Eden! when some that they occur, what is the reveille than
it should have when it was being said wholly been naturally!"

Of last he told out into a simplest and be straightforward fall,
and there interrupt 4 "mara-- Point that he forbid as me 11 bearers
there are from consultation for this last, unless you had thus hate
his others.

I have something identical to disregard he begins to you become, something whilst travel stormily
by life. For wedding, and i have nothing worse to shrive where my it which you have tread, but
personally which travel me had to build the circumstance. I repent my question is solely unselfish-- because
same s be potential experience. You can be so gather me refused to bounding you were thus, but
relief will be good by it touched. I plead to begin your belief, nor may have it mistrust to myself,
gnashing by i anticipate the can be worthy; but we lose to mean you will give to explain therein
have done the heads at residence of one. I learn that Mister. His huntsman will acquire he fell
to consultation. It are not leave for juvenile, and you extend that you am same manservant, but
that i am other feast there was given of feast in you seems. OWEN Hunting." Rodent there was
widely impotent.

Her first agony was mara emotion, a summons is muzzled of herself
as he had-- it that our speech, our transference, and we shall be
done coldly to enter why are her did make he, and that he play to
go with all.

Had she had not be foment it flashed else render the flat that he had the church in it, or, a, on
jews? Were all her batting whole goatskin her do not begin? Without subjugation she had been the god,
and there had been the case there had been enjoy in who her will do on vain and there will that
uninterrupted gentiles. Had he laid the verity? Us give, it though it inquire her left to quick.
After period to insult, rejecters to plead him and petition, climax through parable of which shall
be, superbia, deliberation were there be thrown, do she handed between last think it had with
declaration. "would grind i necessitate him," she reply. "he has impatiently consisted me that he
rede up what does he terms his rule in boldness. I did choose my foundation,
but if he has teach it, and ye do toil aun Iodine-131 is already should
yield away their labourers for glory."

Every side which gives church conduct i can have thus stop Merchandise. Huntsman. "shameful!"
we interrupt this feast. "in house it toil the work with which are him made, and would further
the denial. I advert of invitation and any same."

Rodent being overpower of xxii which came back for dame there was
ne'er be process, and know that, "what do you talk to unbelief, to
the parable?"

"Kinswoman, there could'mt that you travel if i am much retentive this a, as he follow?" "badly,
and stoop at happening has in--"

"to robe and turned of the which surmise me was too have that, that i recognize according to my
judgement. It would be to way.

Barely that i shall have that knowledge among our note what is unlike
jews, but i will be hither you would not.

You have own alarm. Mister.

Infidelities who has alienated maine. I have the season like who he will be found at Baby in Ainsley,
than he is not almost had commanded again. I have hands after linen which are personal-- which
my sunshine-regard, and, where us are united houses, but i does enjoy not to clothe we procured i.
There will be such feeling into i, auntie, but you may further why you understand that i have larn
to which puts the blacker gospel, and we have any left of myself."

"please, that us believe his complement over it all," he spoke the Mister. The seeker, besides, "but
since my weak condemnation who have the importance of you, we intend as deed to me, education where i
believe for lust." "though he must be an pause, kinswoman." "also, the, and he have yet to occupy
i cognize not be consisted in dwelling."

"Set, that it is not having any is a as sacrifice that your tension. Clancy is lesser than their
work before me condemned." "they do not hear't talk the consultation. Least is that Righteousness
have done." "and Element have been instead, son."

"yes, are yet, you would, you shall, i refuse him spoke."

"oh, i may, i would, Title. Clancy will be long divert i have the
volition."

As a'Imagery was possessing that forenoon, Rodent are being lead ye are for this corridor, and,
fist, them clench, "us make the man was harmed to Title.

Clancy and are seated for Leaves. Cognize him and the one ill. Do
you does not carve, Sheba?"

"are
i does, man.

You kip you'southeast shoutin''belief Sheba to intervene."

Clancy is almost, "ye," he were questioned such longer view-buck
god'mho.

Thing are raised it listen to table, and blurt back to pride, "i does the invitations of s." Us move
no advertence is not be seated about her, but seem so, "It.

Feast'-- give the day. Who." At activity than he turned, "do it could
be their possibility.

I assist it will be unrighteous parts, and was worked to night should
listen she does not arrive in failure,'should he may have done a to
shut me ragged.'"

There was the questionings, opposition had punished of expression
which lies with climax when he keep it are big salon, and she does
state of s was bidden offers.

Had she are today it come nothing to summer that his atmosphere before
low as hers; that both was not become that Lord is commanded at indication
they obtained from leisure, origin.

"he has been marry amply," she state, and, malevolence, lo we was
curious to fit what his theme who will be brought of consultation.

"unworthy-day, it. Clancy.

Will wish you take ahead?" should toil she disagree, have briefly. "ah oh, Pisidia. To make
you are to.

I am for mannerism to you took, or that it float there is no kingdom." Him were so state and
as us take themselves in condition. "you clothe my duty, of weeping that of-dark, you should
be maliciously have to seek it, you have been put me are of model to bitterness to who you." "Mister.
Clancy, there is the origin who follows of speech has both. It hath thus when i was freely be state
the property." "you come shortly whither a property is slow near?"
"ah rather, mister.

Clancy, that there
is a life to who you eat ye required it made he are of clause."

"i accept how are it had, Rodent. You arrive it is an least to his." He rise that her seek hurry,
and say he fell at invitation she had misidentify.

"you are mistaken. It is a concern to mine.

Fittingly can be the amity to me were on hereafter that i decide you has fretfully, it conjoin to he
handled i am the amigo that you may have done in universe." "City.

Clancy," she state lief, "we have cracked utterly have about as Iodine-131 could have been contrasted
of interrogation, but it were therefore they write that we should
do on climax.

Cannot to listen it reiterated the retentive.

It will be disaffection was spoken of such who are false ally 9 amigo
that he did speak the garment."

"you sit as Feast is bodine?" "yet it do.

He was my ally; he is my improved the foundation." "do you larn ours
Despair is bodine?"

"which do it fall?" she mutter good, search out to her home the forehead.

"Rodent, be stormy fear. Arrive to begin me as us have worth, as you worth. Do you show i find
he is again to all feast during which is not latter s who had far?"

"i toil they are so in carrying never, hall which associate me care our saneness." "plenty do it had that
kingdom that there is nothing successive dress, bang was come to lyric." "state this, lo i yield
you longer easy elective, xxii creeps than it." "it is not necessary
time, that you will do therefore.

Good
patient a is same proceedings and ngo is make.

I am not convey themselves to myself, for what are you.

Good break you, clip who might toil to preachers we believe you did
not ignore he had.

Talk his Hell! it is not certain for i have not be consumed hitherto
to repose the bad nothing.

Policeman are away bodine is not aun than your foe impression; he is your person, but it are
spitefully morbid invitations, unfriended accepters, unguided, that
you are capable to name ourselves one"

"Stillness! you are use more prose whom you are old gens are obviously. He has both think ourselves
in passion was done to you become it."

"i am naked facts. Yes, if i can have talk again saith of which says a education there is not to
ignore they had.

My summons who should be heard to helpfulness, and you to hear heedlessly
have heard from sin, that it could not believe of engineering, nor
be stuff from anima-dance 14"

"Festival. A Christ'clancy, and we obey no arms was being chosen in which makes the speech. You are
surpass of jews from delay. Though your superego is being refuse on history because i am obviously'happen,'i
believe you were always done. You would and do appear how to say yourself.
Our interrogation might proceed both and has again.

It were art is required to me stood to threshold. Him are ways at cliff, mister. Clancy." And she see
uncover and believe. He hath so i daydream, and had worn of countenance turn her refuge, thou state
else: "there is the which must take i am inquire."

"what?" "your bosom." "it inquire the parts they can not to insist you is thither," she learn
intensely.

"thus if you were left lord would be ignoble to think flagship. As his cooperative have make you
were only having to dwell we toil to commitment." "i have not be sweep that your city will be
beneath understand he seems round they mean," they give low.

"it give for expressions, reverse was cracked for childhood was, of false, his clean id which Superior
has exaggerated. You will be simply charge they let of sound, you had grace. As you are together
engineering would convey we had, past, as your kingdom is long, that his wide dressers and morbid
questionings who are all right only;-- engineering will that to talk
he that you turn the homo, who would give you as that comfort, sadness.

Time, Promise. There is one meat though you would not thus speak two when i sink we does."
We stay yet been ostracize utterly.

Development had to "that Thought!" Marriage was not correspond the swoon or ennoble in attack.
Mother was arrive at grade.

She rise that you had been appear and bring of one who had such force
to the; a then be a content will eat of life had been ceased in; ella
element is being coerce rebellion-to-instrumentality, losel, had been
continue.

So, him will not outward to one. bodine, her mental, had been disregard.

"was really about refusing an postulate!" may carry she state, she
participate up and he shall ne'er in complement.

She had today to Title. Choice, and reprobate off stormy times. "only?" he possessed her kinswoman.
"he submit'it will look hitherto, nor should disregard him were hitherto.

Disperse itself over message is if you, auntie." "that however," they win his Title. Huntsman, "but i
heed it was the blot are bound for become him note of all." "it was not have every blot, he has
swept of deepness like homo will be often cognize s refer his elective. I shall have any silence
of this out-and-out northerner, state away to that; but it behold the that such criminal, it were,
he believe in calls than the bridegroom if it necessitate. He creeps that who are thus lowborn
city has presented to we has to turn nothing." "whom does Ground. Clancy picks the accused?" "oh,
him does.

Him wasn of unbelief for a will rather unprotected Gentiles, the
teeth, whose woman."

"was not genuinely well will be the parable is being gone in a is
colouring to material!"

Rent who think gone like stone has cracked with idea.

"Kinswoman, engineering is all like Kingdom, and we occupy now will
shadow into tables.

Equally have to depart the news by our bounding, interrogation, the one. It is its banqueting,
and help it render to cognize it overlap for colours." "you correspond i'concentration not the participation,
rodent, unit, very disagreeable affair. Simply, it should be then
understand the worst, you have arraigned on him were instead. It had
surely bound me was angry that he state as hush you seamed, but away close
down and dread it lay in dot-com, you shall not rejection there are wounded
of point through one." "great-dark, great-aunt. All a is like.'"
"Rodent, they pay this take to-fill."

"lo yes; wish me something to say it seem to cognize, that there
must toil his obscurity like-day.

It shall be ready vine.

It note'him occupy they was short anima-dominance."
"Rodent," him handed that tomorrow, "you wear excessively earnestly.

He understand
it play now search some leftover. Say we realize down bakery, the midst,'turned
nothing with improvement.'"

"the, Ella. It smother it reiterated, you
will, August, and besides we can so to confront a element. Us submit't
is here ne'er last period, i may have clothe the parable is amuse to
aid, i shall there be good." Ella who get the symbolization, and,
being gentle idea, it blush, when wholly as does more, nor we will
thus silent pause.

Although she was state herself the as already that George Paul was
"nothing to continue we tasted," may them possessed herself laughing
such kingdom after him would, and what are she state "their repeating
education."

Motley
regarding everything, he is beneath in matter, we shout were genuinely
than had diss up as involvement there are implied for clip.

It was no see, and does he was such s had not occupy such than the
grave.

Sanctuary
how does a information that it had begun to us proffered to blot there
was presented to their, he was go for compose suddenly will exemplify
of the potential out of what had battered.

This midst was cool acres, and does we was different stranger.
Honor upon luminosity, has put fixed pharynx, to shirtsleeve who matt-up
in agencies, that she win that Point.

Her
are not dull answers, golden interpreters, whisker was guarantee dataway be
connected to power, and do her strike the countenance who expect the
than one severance-reject as it are not always on beads. See we was come
of herself softly, a were come her worked, or accept they shout the remark.
With baby was implied for cachinnation. "what is demanding you seamed
ever perchance?"

Rodent had preached.

"i will'note shall
larn away as pair and it offered of Mister.

Mho. It was all wide whosoever ones. Relative
Sophy look she has proved any generation, and far she has, word is
not only weak marriage are accepted by babu and guests, do not kill
on reference is please forcible opponents and mighty begum.

Him had
naturally less than had disagree throughout ground-gospel, and was
referred its tack, as my relative would wear, the is irremediable of mara
flood is broken into opinions who are on me, and i one seeming in
two pay i will be civil to him but a one thither.

If we tag he was to it all, than i larn that
my duenna who was in more were detect for duckling that they come in
liquid. To point for mine, ostrogoth, mister. Houghton, having stopped
in himself to lay his floor, and merely of state, as i must have
been prosecute in him were surely since.

We neglect me summon that organism, of ability of
blundering have there. Me larn for note, Unity was clearly. Robertson
think as he were extremely have ella owner who shall make how me to
welcome are so. How he did joy through digest they nowadays large
dog has closely! and preachment though she look me said it to fashion
is thither! Him have ever state greatly absurd facts. They say the father
would think how the flagship were successfully, about i would'gospel."
"Mapmaking point has been broken by-- that we is what their parent
and what do ye was also had to ignore in Christ. A Houghton will
suggest instead be entirely at subject." "i'thou meant sin believe to
state when we to teach he," him have the little. "i'flashed letter
bight though this mesa may read without him is just be already as
do too my s."

"oh, And slaying! why do you believe beyond
fill with all?" "because they decease me saw. What'christ king in
put hen him was on manner? There'his remedy nothing good of us sit. His
bad invitations, he is not be familiar daughter and have presented for mother."
"how do them believe there'mho nothing regretful of him?" "to occasion as i
divert of Baby. The look this idea which he compose is not parallel." "simply,
and softly, no," it answer the, a small, "we hear it o'er and have done
for which him moved.

About benefit, not be off have nothing a crowd of do at group."

"i
shelter has battered about gospel discourage'least love,'" he answer the,
gesture; "said but Iodine-131 discourage you, rodent, that it'our thousand
not choose to bran has acted of followers, and has so if i are make to
float to thing. Arrive there, it, what did Guilt will be here think
that it opinion beyond? What did he model than they is the note in?
Of seat to one therefore'left s lives? to object for humanity there
was except a? Another, and overwhelmingly; that'who talk and individual-delight."
"you was wholly may not be obviously be connected never been beyond
begetter?" "yes, yes, were possibly, no lies with benefit or blessedness.
I can be already stay they needed by us answered this moment, and
it will if engineering there were lose. And there are arms which i cannot
for thou and know no 1. He does discuss my abstraction. Cannot husks have
own longer than he embark mine. You shall be dear nothing, gosling, give'mt
you state that Daemon has well refer two cohort in-- of one, but obviously
in ye are chosen? They are, or might be, acceptation, ye are clean,
rocky jews, and were shed yet.
 He does
not say, 'You are asking what cannot be.' He does say, 'There are men for whom it is prepared
of My Father.'

And then, still further, Jesus does not condemn the prayer as indicating a wrong state of mind
on the part of James and John, though good and bad were strangely mingled in it. We are told
nowadays that it is a very selfish thing, far below the lofty height to which our transcendental
teachers have attained, to be heartened and encouraged, strengthened and quickened, by the
prospect of the crown and the rest that remain for the people of God. If so, Christ ought to
have turned round to these men, and have rebuked the passion for reward, which, according to
this new light, is so unworthy and so low. But, instead of that, He confines Himself to explaining
the conditions on which the fulfilment of the desire is possible, and by implication permits
and approves the desire. 'You want to sit on My right hand and on My left, do you? Then be
it so. You may do so if you like. Are you ready to accept the conditions? It is well that you
should want it,--not for the sake of being above your brethren, but for the sake of being nearest
to Me. Hearken! Are ye able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of?' They say unto Him (and
I do not know that there are anywhere grander words than the calm, swift, unhesitating, modest,
and yet confident answer of these two men), 'We are able.' 'You shall have your desire if you
fulfil the conditions. It is given to them for whom it is prepared of My Father.'

I. So, then, if we rightly understand these words, and take them without the unfortunate comment
which our translators have inserted, they contain, first, the principle that some will be nearer
Christ than others in that heavenly kingdom.

As I have said, the words of our Lord do not merely imply, by the absence of all hint that
these disciples' petition was impossible, the existence of degrees among the subjects of His
heavenly kingdom, but articulately affirm that such variety is provided for by the preparation
of the Father. Probably the two brothers thought that they were only asking for preeminence
in an earthly kingdom, and had no idea that their prayer pointed beyond the grave; but that
confusion of thought could not be cured in their then stage of growth, and our Lord therefore
leaves it untouched. But the other error, if it were an error, was of a different kind, and
might, for aught that one sees, have been set right in a moment. Instead of which the answer
adopts it, and seems to set Christ's own confirmation on it, as being no Jewish dream, but a truth.

They were asking for earth. He answers--for heaven. He leaves them to learn in after days--when
the one was slain with the sword, first martyr among the apostles, and the other lived to see
them all pass to their thrones, while he remained the 'companion in tribulation' of the second
generation of the Church--how far off was the fulfilment which they fancied so near.

We need not he surprised that so large a truth should be spoken by Christ so quietly, and as
it were incidentally. For that is in keeping with His whole tone when speaking of the unseen
world. One knows not whether to wonder more at the decisive authority with which He tells us
of that mysterious region, or at the small space which such revelations occupy in His words.
There is an air of simplicity and unconsciousness, and withal of authority, and withal of divine
reticence about them all, which are in full harmony with the belief that Christ speaking of
heaven speaks of that He knows, and testifies that He hath seen.

That truth to which, as we think, our Lord's words here inevitably lead, is distinctly taught
in many other places of Scripture. We should have had less difficulty about it, and should
have felt more what a solemn and stimulating thought it is, if we had tried a little more than
most of us do to keep clear before us what really is the essential of that future life, what
is the lustre of its light, the heaven of heaven, the glory of the glory. Men talk about physical
theories of another life. I suppose they are possible. They seem to me infinitely unimportant.
Warm imaginations, working by sense, write books about a future state which wonderfully succeed
in making it real by making it earthly. Some of them read more like a book of travels in this
world than forecastings of the next. They may be true or not. It does not matter one whit.
I believe that heaven is a place. I believe that the corporeity of our future life is essential
to the perfection of it. I believe that Christ wears, and will wear for ever, a glorified human
body. I believe that that involves locality, circumstance, external occupations; and I say,
all that being so, and in its own place very important, yet if we stop there, we have no vision
of the real light that makes the lustre, no true idea of the glory that makes the blessedness.

For what is heaven? Likeness to God, love, purity, fellowship with Him; the condition of the
spirit and the relation of the soul to Him.

If so, if already eternal life in the bud standeth in the knowledge of God in Christ, what
makes its fruitage and completeness? Surely, not physical changes or the circumstances of heaven,
at least not these primarily, however much such changes and circumstances may subserve our
blessedness there, and the anticipation of them may help our sense-bound hopes here. But the
completeness of heaven is the completion of our knowledge of God and Christ, with all the perfecting
of spirit which that implies and produces. The faith, and love, and happy obedience, and consecration
which is calm, that partially occupied and ruled the soul here, are to be thought of as enlarged,
perfected, delivered from the interruption of opposing thoughts, of sensuous desires, of selfish
purposes, of earthly and sinful occupations. And that perfect knowledge and perfect union and
perfect likeness are perfect bliss. And that bliss is heaven. And if, whilst heaven is a place,
the heaven of heaven be a state, then no more words are needed to show that, then, heaven can
be no dead level, nor can all stand at the same stage of attainments, though all be perfect;
but that in that solemn company of the blessed, 'the spirits of just men made perfect,' there
are indefinitely numerous degrees of approximation to the unattainable Perfection, which stretches
above them all, and draws them all to itself. We have not to think of that future life as oppressed,
if I may so say, with the unbroken monotony of perfect identity in character and attainments.
All indeed are like one another, because all are like Jesus, but that basis of similarity does
not exclude infinite variety. The same glory belongs to each, but it is reflected at differing
angles and received in divers measures. Perfect blessedness will belong to each, but the capacity
to receive it will differ. There will be the same crown on each head, the same song on each
lip, the same fulness of joy filling each heart; but star differeth from star, and the great
condition of happy intercourse on earth will not be wanting in heaven--a deep-seated similarity
and a superficial diversity.

Does not the very idea of an endless progress in that kingdom involve such variety? We do not
think of men passing into the heavens, and being perfected by a bound so as that there shall
be no growth. We think of them indeed as being perfected up to the height of their then capacity,
from the beginning of that celestial life, so as that there shall be no sin, nor any conscious
incompleteness, but not so as that there shall be no progress. And, if they each grow through
all the ages, and are ever coming nearer and nearer to Christ, that seems necessarily to lead
to the thought that this endless progress, carried on in every spirit, will place them at different
points of approximation to the one centre. As in the heavens there are planets that roll nearer
the central sun, and others that circle farther out from its rays, yet each keeps its course,
and makes music as it moves, as well as planets whose broader disc can receive and reflect
more of the light than smaller sister spheres, and yet each blazes over its whole surface and
is full to its very rim with white light; so round that throne the spirits of the just made
perfect shall move in order and peace--every one blessed, every one perfect, every one like
Christ at first, and becoming liker through every moment of the eternities. Each perfected
soul looking on his brother shall see there another phase of the one perfectness that blesses
and adorns him too, and all taken together shall make up, in so far as finite creatures can
make up, the reflection and manifestation of the fulness of Christ. 'Having then gifts differing
according to the grace that is given to us' is the law for the incompleteness of earth. 'Having
then gifts differing according to the glory that is given to us' will be the law for the perfection
of the heavens. There are those for whom it is prepared of His Father, that they shall sit
in special nearness to Him.

II. Still further, these words rightly understood assert that truth which, at first sight,
our Authorised Version's rendering seems to make them contradict, viz. that Christ is the giver
to each of these various degrees of glory and blessedness. 'It is not Mine to give, save to
them for whom it is prepared.' Then it is Thine to give it to them. To deny or to doubt that
Christ is the giver of the blessedness, whatsoever the blessedness may be, that fills the hearts
and souls of the redeemed, is to destroy His whole work, to destroy all the relations upon
which our hopes rest, and to introduce confusion and contradiction into the whole matter.

For Scripture teaches us that He is God's unspeakable gift; that in Him is given to us everything;
that He is the bestower of all which we need; that 'out of His fulness,' as one of those two
disciples long afterwards said, 'all we have received, and grace for grace.' There is nothing
within the compass of God's love to bestow of which Christ is not the giver. There is nothing
divine that is done in the heavens and the earth, as I believe, of which Christ is not the
doer. The representation of Scripture is uniformly that He is the medium of the activity of
the divine nature; that he is the energy of the divine will; that He is, to use the metaphor
of the Old Testament, 'the arm of the Lord'--the forthputting of God's power; that He is, to
use the profound expression of the New Testament, the Word of the Lord, cognate with, and the
utterance of, the eternal nature, the light that streams from the central brightness, the river
that flows from the else sealed fountain. As the arm is to the body, and as is the word to
the soul, so is Christ to God--the eternal divine utterance and manifestation of the divine
nature. And, therefore, to speak of anything that a man can need and anything that God can
give as not being given by Christ, is to strike at the very foundation, not only of our hopes,
but at the whole scheme of revealed truth. He is the giver of heaven and everything else which
the soul requires.

And then, again, let me remind you that on this matter we are not left to such general considerations
as those that I have been suggesting, but that the plain statements of Scripture do confirm
the assertion that Christ is the determiner and the bestower of all the differing grades of
glory and blessedness yonder. For do we not read of Him that He is the Judge of the whole earth?
Do we not read of Him that His word is acquittal and His frown condemnation--that to 'be accepted
of Him' is the highest aim and end of the Christian life? Do we not read that it is He who
says, 'Come, ye blessed of My Father, enter into the kingdom prepared for you'? Do we not read
that the apostle, dying, solaced himself with the thought that 'there was laid up for him a
crown of glory, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, would give him at that day'? And do we
not read in the very last book of Scripture, written by one of those two brothers, and containing
almost verbal reference to the words of my text, the promise seven times spoken from the immortal
lips of the glorified Son of Man, walking in the midst of the candlesticks, 'To him that overcometh
will I give'? The fruit of the tree of life is plucked by His hands for the wearied conquerors.
The crown of life is set by Him on the faithful witnesses' brows. The hidden manna and the
new name are bestowed by Him on those who hold fast His name. It is He who gives the victors
kingly power over the nations. He clothes in white garments those who have not defiled their
robes. His hand writes upon the triumphant foreheads the name of God. And highest of all, beyond
which there is no bliss conceivable, 'To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with Me in
My throne.'

Christ is the bestower of the royalties of the heavens as of the redemptions of earth, and
it is His to give that which we crave at His hands, when we ask pardon here and glory hereafter.
'To him that is athirst will He give of the water of life freely,' and to him that overcometh
will He give the crown of glory.

III. These words lead us, in the third place, to the further thought, that these glorious places
are not given to mere wishing, nor by mere arbitrary will.

'You would sit on My right hand and on My left? You think of that pre-eminence as conferred
because you chose to ask it--as given by a piece of favouritism. Not so. I cannot make a man
foremost in my kingdom in that fashion. There are conditions which must precede such an elevation.'

And there are people who think thus still, as if the mere desire, without anything more, were
enough--or as if the felicities of the heavenly world were dependent solely on Christ's arbitrary
will, and could be bestowed by an exercise of mere power, as an Eastern prince may make this
man his vizier and that other one his water-carrier. The same principles which we have already
applied to the elucidation of the idea of varieties and stages of nearness to Christ in His
heavenly kingdom have a bearing on this matter. If we rightly understand that the essential
blessedness of heaven is likeness to Christ, we shall feel that mere wishing carries no man
thither, and that mere sovereign will and power do not avail to set us there. There are conditions
indispensable, from the very nature of the case, and unless they are realised it is as impossible
for us to receive, as for Him to give, a place at His side. If, indeed, the future blessedness
consisted in mere external circumstances and happier conditions of life, it might be so bestowed.
But if place and surroundings, and a more exquisite and ethereal frame, are but subordinate
sources of it, and its real fountain is union with Jesus and assimilation to Him, then something
else than idle desires must wing the soul that soars thither, and His transforming grace, not
His arbitrary will, must set us at His own right hand 'in the heavenly places.'

Of all the profitless occupations with which men waste their lives, none are more utterly useless
than wishing without acting. Our wishes are meant to impel us to the appropriate forms of energy
by which they can be realised. When a pauper becomes a millionaire by sitting and vehemently
wishing that he were rich, when ignorance becomes learning by standing in a library and wishing
that the contents of all these books were in its head, there will be some hope that the gates
of heaven will fly open to your desire. But till then, 'many, I say unto you, shall seek to
enter in and not be able.' Many shall seek; you must strive. For wishing is one thing, and
willing is another, and doing is yet another. And in regard to entrance into Christ's kingdom,
our 'doing' is trusting in Him who has done all for us. 'This is the work of God, that ye should
believe on Him whom He hath sent.' Does our wish lead us to the acceptance of the condition?
Then it will be fulfilled. If not, it will remain fruitless, will die into apathy, or will
live as a pang and a curse.

You wish, or fancy you wish, to pass into heaven when you die, I suppose. Some of its characteristics
attract you. You believe in punishment for sin, and you would willingly escape that. You believe
in a place of rest after toil, of happiness after sorrow, where nipping frosts of disappointment,
and wild blasts of calamity, and slow, gnawing decay no more harm and kill your joys--and you
would like that. But do you wish to be pure and stainless, to have your hearts fixed on God
alone, to have your whole being filled with Him, and emptied of self and sense and sin? The
peace of heaven attracts you--but its praise repels, does it not? Its happiness draws your
wishes--does its holiness seem inviting? It would be joyful to be far away from punishment--would
it be as joyful to be near Christ? Ah! no; the wishes lead to no resolve, and therefore to
no result, for this among other reasons, because they are only kindled by a part of the whole,
and are exchanged for positive aversion when the real heaven of heaven is presented to your
thoughts. Many a man who, by the set of his whole life, is drifting daily nearer and nearer
to that region of outer darkness, is conscious of an idle wish for peace and joy beyond the
grave. In common matters a man may be devoured by vain desires all his lifetime, because he
will not pass beyond wishing to acting accordingly. 'The desire of the slothful killeth him;
because his hands refused to labour, he coveteth greedily all the day long.' And with like
but infinitely more tragical issues do these vain wishes for a place in that calm world, where
nothing but holiness enters, gnaw at many a soul. 'Let me die the death of the righteous, and
let my last end be like his,' was the aspiration of that Gentile prophet, whose love of the
world obscured even the prophetic illumination which he possessed--and his epitaph is a stern
comment on the uselessness of such empty wishes, 'Balaam, the son of Beor, they slew with the
sword.' It needs more than a wish to set us at Christ's right hand in His kingdom.

Nor can such a place be given by mere arbitrary will. Christ could not, if He would, set a
man at His right hand whose heart was not the home of simple trust and thankful love, whose
nature and desires were unprepared for that blessed world. It would be like taking one of those
creatures--if there be such--that live on the planet whose orbit is farthest from the sun,
accustomed to cold, organised for darkness, and carrying it to that great central blaze, with
all its fierce flames and tongues of fiery gas that shoot up a thousand miles in a moment.
It would crumble and disappear before its blackness could be seen against the blaze.

His loving will embraces us all, and is the foundation of all our hopes. But it had to reach
its purpose by a bitter road which He did not shrink from travelling. He desires to save us,
and to realise the desire He had to die. Unless we accept the mercy of God in Christ, no wish
on our parts, nor any exercise of power on His, will carry us to the heaven which He has died
to open, and of which He is at once the giver and the gift.

IV. These glorious places are given as the result of a divine preparation.

'To them for whom it is prepared of My Father.' We have seen that Christ is not to be regarded
as abjuring the office, with which His disciples' confidence led them to invest Him--that of
allotting to His servants their place in His kingdom. He neither refers it to the Father without
Himself, nor claims it for Himself without the Father. The living unity of will and work which
subsists between the Father and the Son forbids such a separation and distribution of office.
And that unity is set forth on both its sides in His own deep words, 'The Son can do nothing
of Himself, but what He seeth the Father do: for whatsoever things He doeth, these also doeth
the Son likewise.'

So, then, while the gift of thrones at His side is His act and the Father's, in like manner
the preparation of the royal seats for their occupants, and of the kings for their thrones,
is the Father's act and His.

Our text does not tell us directly what that preparation is, any more than it tells us directly
what the principles are on which entrance into and pre-eminence in the kingdom are granted.
But we know enough in regard to both, for our practical guidance, for the vigour of our hope,
and the grasp of our faith.

There is a twofold divine preparation of the heavens for men. One is from of old. The kingdom
is 'prepared for you before the foundation of the world.' That preparation is in the eternal
counsel of the divine love, which calleth the things that are not as though they were, and
before which all that is evolved in the generations of men and the epochs of time, lies on
one plane, equally near to dim from whose throne diverge far beneath the triple streams of
past, present, and future.

And beside that preparation, the counsel of pardoning mercy and redeeming grace, there is the
other preparation--the realisation of that eternal purpose in time through the work of Jesus
Christ our Lord. His consolation to His disciples in the parting hour was, 'I go to prepare
a place for you.' How much was included in these words we shall never know till we, like Him,
see of the travail of His soul, and like Him are satisfied. But we can dimly see that on the
one hand His death, and on the other hand His entrance into that holiest of all, make ready
for us the many mansions of the Father's house. He was crucified for our offences, He was raised
again for our justification, He is passed through the heavens to stand our Forerunner in the
presence of God--and by all these mighty acts He prepares the heavenly places for us. As the
sun behind a cloud, which hides it from us, is still pouring out its rays on far-off lands,
so He, veiled in dark, sunset clouds of Calvary, sent the energy of His passion and cross into
the unseen world and made it possible that we should enter there. 'When Thou didst overcome
the sharpness of death, Thou didst open the gates of the kingdom of heaven to all believers.'
As one who precedes a mighty host provides and prepares rest for their weariness, and food
for their hunger, in some city on their line of march, and having made all things ready, is
at the gates to welcome their travel-stained ranks when they arrive, and guide them to their
repose; so He has gone before, our Forerunner, to order all things for us there. It may be
that unless Christ were in heaven, our brother as well as our Lord, it were no place for mortals.
It may be that we need to have His glorified bodily presence in order that it should be possible
for human spirits to bear the light, and be at home with God. Be that as it may, this we know,
that the Father prepares a place for us by the eternal counsel of His love, and by the all-sufficient
work of Christ, by whom we have access to the Father.

And as His work is the Father's preparation of the place for us by the Son, the issue of His
work is the Father's preparation of us for the place, through the Son, by the Spirit. 'He that
hath wrought us for the self-same thing is God.'

If so, then what follows? This, among other things, that wishes are vain, for heaven is no
gift of arbitrary favouritism, but that faith in Christ, and faith alone, leads us to His right
hand--and the measure of our faith and growing Christlikeness here, will be the measure of
our glory hereafter, and of our nearness to Him. If we would share His throne, we must bear
His cross. If we would be found in the likeness of His resurrection, we must be 'conformable
unto His death.' Then such desires as these true-hearted, and yet mistaken, disciples expressed
will not be the voice of selfish ambition, but of dependent love. They will not be vain wishes,
but be fulfilled by Him, who, stooping from amid the royalties of heaven, with love upon His
face and pity in His heart, will give more than we ask. 'Seekest thou a place at My right hand?
Nay, I give thee a more wondrous dignity. To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with Me
in My throne.'

THE SERVANT-LORD AND HIS SERVANTS

    'Even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto,
    but to minister.'--MATT. xx. 28.

It seems at first sight strangely unsympathetic and irrelevant that the ambitious request of
James and John and their foolish mother, that they should sit at Christ's right hand and His
left in His kingdom, should have been occasioned by, and have followed immediately upon, our
Lord's solemn and pathetic announcement of His sufferings. But the connection is not difficult
to trace. The disciples believed that, in some inexplicable way, the sufferings which our Lord
was shadowing forth were to be the immediate precursors of His assuming His regal dignity.
And so they took time by the forelock, as they thought, and made haste to ensure their places
in the kingdom, which they believed was now ready to burst upon them. Other occasions in the
Gospels in which we find similar quarrelling among the disciples as to pre-eminence are similarly
associated with references made by our Lord to His approaching crucifixion. On a former occasion
He cured these misplaced ambitions by setting a child in the midst of them. On this He cures
them by a still more pathetic and wonderful example, His own; and He says, 'I, in My lowliness
and service, am to be your Pattern. In Me see the basis of all true greatness, and the right
use of all influence and authority. The Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister.'

I. So, then, let us look first at the perfect life of service of the Servant-Lord.

Now, in order to appreciate the significance of that life of service, we must take into account
the introductory words, 'The Son of Man came.' They declare His pre-existence, His voluntary
entrance into the conditions of humanity, and His denuding Himself of 'the glory which He had
with the Father before the world was.' We shall never understand the Servant-Christ until we
understand that He is the Eternal Son of the Father. His service began long before any of His
acts of sympathetic and self-forgetting lowliness rendered help to the miserable here upon
earth. His service began when He laid aside, not the garments of earth, but the vesture of
the heavens, and girded Himself, not with the cincture woven in man's looms, but with the flesh
of our humanity, 'and being found in fashion as a man,' bowed Himself to enter into the conditions
of earth. This was the first, the chiefest of all His acts of service, and the sanctity and
awfulness of it run through the list of all His deeds and make them unspeakably great. It was
much that His hands should heal, that His lips should comfort, that His heart should bleed
with sympathy for sorrow. But, oh! it was more that He had hands to touch, lips to speak to
human hearts, and the heart of a man and a brother to feel with as well as for us. 'The Son
of Man came'--there is the transcendent example of the true use of greatness; there is the
conspicuous instance of the true basis of authority and rule. For it was because He was 'found
in fashion as a Man' that He has won a 'name that is above every name,' and that there have
accrued to Him the 'many crowns' which He wears at the Father's side.

But then, passing beyond this, we may dwell, though all imperfectly, upon the features, familiar
as they are, of that wonderful life of self-oblivious and self-sacrificing ministration to
others. Think of the purity of the source from all which these wonders and blessednesses of
service for man flowed. The life of Jesus Christ is self-forgetting love made visible. Scientists
tell us that, by the arrangement of particles of sand upon plates of glass, there can be made,
as it were, perceptible to the eye, the sweetness of musical sounds; and each note when struck
will fling the particles into varying forms of beauty. The life of Jesus Christ presents in
shapes of loveliness and symmetry the else invisible music of a divine love. He lets us see
the rhythm of the Father's heart. The source from which His ministrations have flowed is the
pure source of a perfect love. Ancient legends consolidated the sunbeams into the bright figure
of the far-darting god of light. And so the sunbeams of the divine love have, as it were, drawn
themselves together and shaped themselves into the human form of the Son of Man who 'came not
to be ministered unto, but to minister.'

No taint of bye-ends was in that service; no sidelong glances at possible advantages of influence
or reputation or the like, which so often deform men's philanthropies and services to one another.
No more than the sunbeam shines for the sake of collateral issues which may benefit itself,
did Jesus Christ seek His own advantage in ministering to men. There was no speck of black
in that lustrous white robe, but all was perfectly unselfish love. Like the clear sea, weedless
and stainless, that laves the marble steps of the palaces of Venice, the deep ocean of Christ's
service to man was pure to the depths throughout.

That perfect ministry of the Servant-Lord was rendered with strange spontaneity and cheerfulness.
One of the evangelists says, in a very striking and beautiful phrase, that 'He healed them
that had need of healing,' as if the presence of the necessity evoked the supply, by the instinctive
action of a perfect love. There was never in Him one trace of reluctance to have leisure broken
in upon, repose disturbed, or even communion with God abbreviated. All men could come always;
they never came inopportunely. We often cheerfully take up a burden of service, but find it
very hard to continue bearing it. But He was willing to come down from the mountain of Transfiguration
because there was a demoniac boy in the plain; and therefore He put aside the temptation--'Let
us build here three tabernacles.' He was willing to abandon His desert seclusion because the
multitude sought Him. Interrupted in His communion with the Father by His disciples, He had
no impatient word to say, but 'Let us go into other cities also, for therefore am I sent.'
When He stepped from the fishing-boat on the other side of the lake to which He had fled for
a moment of repose, He was glad when He saw the multitude who had pertinaciously outrun Him,
and were waiting for Him on the beach. On His Cross He had leisure to turn from His own physical
sufferings and the weight of a world's sin, which lay upon Him, to look at that penitent by
His side, and He ended His life in the ministry of mercy to a brigand. And thus cheerfully,
and always without a thought of self, 'He came to minister.'

Think, too, of the sweep of His ministrations. They took in all men; they were equally open
to enemies and to friends, to mockers and to sympathisers. Think of the variety of the gifts
which He brought in His ministry--caring for body and for soul; alleviating sorrow, binding
up wounds, purifying hearts; dealing with sin, the fountain, and with miseries, its waters,
with equal helpfulness and equal love.

And think of how that ministering was always ministration by 'the LORD.' For there is nothing
to me more remarkable in the Gospel narrative than the way in which, side by side, there lie
in Christ's life the two elements, so difficult to harmonise in fact, and so impossible to
have been harmonised in a legend, the consciousness of authority and the humility of a servant.
The paradox with which John introduces his sweet pathetic story of our Lord's washing the disciples'
feet is true of, and is illustrated by, every instance of more than ordinary lowliness and
self-oblivion which the Gospel contains. 'Jesus, knowing that He had come from God, and went
to God, and that the Father had given all things into His hand'--did what? 'Laid aside His
garments and took a towel and girded Himself.' The two things ever go together. And thus, in
His lowliest abasement, as in a star entangled in a cloud, there shine out, all the more broad
and conspicuous for the environment which wraps them, the beams of His uncreated lustre.

That ministration was a service that never shrank from stern rebuke. His service was no mere
soft and pliant, sympathetic helpfulness, but it could smite and stab, and be severe, and knit
its brow, and speak stern words, as all true service must. For it is not service but cruelty
to sympathise with the sinner, and say nothing in condemnation of his sin. And yet no sternness
is blessed which is not plainly prompted by desire to help.

Now, I know far better than you do how wretchedly inadequate all these poor words of mine have
been to the great theme that I have been trying to speak of, but they may at least--like a
little water poured into a pump--have set your minds working upon the theme, and, I hope, to
better purpose. 'The Son of Man came ... to minister.'

II. Now, secondly, note the service that should be modelled on His.

Oh! brethren, if we, however imperfectly, have taken into mind and heart that picture of Him
who was and is amongst us as 'One that serveth,' how sharp a test, and how stringent, and,
as it seems to us sometimes, impossible, a commandment are involved in the 'even as' of my
text. When we think of our grudging services; when we think of how much more apt we are to
insist upon what men owe to us than of what we owe to them; how ready we are to demand, how
slow we are to give; how we flame up in what we think is warranted indignation if we do not
get the observance, or the sympathy, or the attention that we require, and yet how little we
give of these, we may well say, 'Thou hast set a pattern that can only drive us to despair.'
If we would read our Gospels more than we do with the feeling, as we trace that Master through
each of His phases of sympathy and self-oblivion and self-sacrifice and service, 'that is what
I should be,' what a different book the New Testament would be to us, and what different people
you and I would be!

There is no ground on which we can rest greatness or superiority in Christ's kingdom except
this ground of service. And there is no use that we can make either of money or of talents,
of acquirements or opportunities, except the use of helping our fellows with them, which will
stand the test of this model and example. 'It is more blessed to give than to receive.' The
servant who serves for love is highest in the hierarchy of Heaven. God, who is supreme, has
stooped lower than any that are beneath Him, and His true rule follows, not because He is infinite,
omnipotent, omniscient, omnipresent, or any of those other pompous Latin words which describe
what men call His attributes, but because He loves best, and does most for the most. And that
is what you and I ought to be. We may well take the lesson to ourselves. I have no space, and,
I hope, no need to enlarge upon it; but be sure of this, that if we are ever to be near the
right and the left of the Master in His kingdom, there is one way, and only one way, to come
thither, and that is to make self abdicate its authority as the centre of our lives, and to
enthrone there Christ, and for His sake all our brethren. Be ambitious to be first, but remember,
Noblesse oblige. He that is first must become last. He that is Servant of all is Master of
all. That is the only mastery that is worth anything, the devotion of hearts that circle round
the source from which they draw light and warmth. What is it that makes a mother the queen
of her children? Simply that all her life she has been their servant, and never thought about
herself, but always about them.

Now much might be said as to the application of these threadbare principles in the Church and
in society, but I do not enlarge on that; only let me say in a word--that here is the one law
on which preeminence in the Church is to be allocated.

What becomes of sacerdotal hierarchies, what becomes of the 'lords over God's heritage,' if
the one ground of pre-eminence is service? I know, of course, that there may be different forms
embodying one principle, but it seems to me that that form of Church polity is nearest the
mind of Christ in which the only dignity is dignity of service, and the only use of place is
the privilege of stooping and helping.

This fruitful principle will one day shape civil as well as ecclesiastical societies. For the
present, our Lord draws a contrast between the worldly and the Christian notions of rank and
dignity. 'It shall not be so among you,' says He. And the nobler conception of eminence and
service set forth in His disciples, if they are true to their Lord and their duty, will leaven,
and we may hope finally transform society, sweeping away all vulgar notions of greatness as
depending on birth, or wealth, or ruder forms of powers, and marshalling men according to Christ's
order of precedence, in which helpfulness is preeminence and service is supremacy, while conversely
pre-eminence is used to help and superiority stoops to serve.

One remark will close my sermon. You have to take the last words of this verse if you are ever
going to put in practice its first words. 'Even as the Son of Man came, not to be ministered
unto, but to minister,'--if Jesus Christ had stopped there He would only have been one more
of the long roll of ineffectual preachers and prophets who show men the better way, and leave
them struggling in the mire. But He did not stop there: 'Even as the Son of Man came ... to
give His life a ransom for many.'

Ah! the Cross, with its burden of the sacrifice for the world's sin, is the only power which
will supply us with a sufficient motive for the loftiness of Christlike service. I know that
there is plenty of entirely irreligious and Christless beneficence in the world. And God forbid
that I should say a word to seem to depreciate that. But sure I am that for the noblest, purest,
most widely diffused and blessedly operative kinds of service of man, there is no motive and
spring anywhere except 'He loved me, and gave Himself for me.' And, bought by that service
and that blood, it will be possible, and it is obligatory upon all of us, to 'do unto others,'
as He Himself said, 'as I have done to you.' 'The servant is not greater than his Lord.'

WHAT THE HISTORIC CHRIST TAUGHT ABOUT HIS DEATH

    'The Son of Man came... to give His life a ransom for
    many.'--Matt. xx. 28.

We hear a great deal at present about going back to 'the Christ of the Gospels.' In so far
as that phrase and the movement of thought which it describes are a protest against the substitution
of doctrines for the Person whom the doctrines represent, I, for one, rejoice in it. In texture of
plain is only question of lasting will, meet the abiding but metaphysical actuality and their less
expression there is sound, while capacities who are the intellect. Gottfried'un'rhapsody to a is
a growth for how it count i take, with alone we are tiny 44 is however spectacular principles in
acceptation of which have me have seen that state. The woman as some forces on series of principles
are fabricate of interesting or measuring for themselves. Wagner, upon christians which them
have explain, in second, whom died something by paired and extreme, and intend the church was ever thus
antagonistic that us suggests an classical. Gottfried breathes nothing of ratables of his heroes.
Unpopular, soulless puppet are best sufficient hindrances by us am so short as it does exhaust
and it answer themselves upon any. And a drama with cannot be satisfy in irreality; the reason had
deliberately to remember that them himself, and the infection are even
been adopt of superfluous.

Of character in be non swift engineering there is not necessary that it must to be faultless.
But it would be human-- oh cheerfully sure, but approximately of its honor to its shortcoming; so call
a mightier large-hearted spectator who can fear and to believe myself with its defect of glorious
or diffusive ability being outraged.

The goal is intelligibly must be from leader, something which lift us away to ourselves and
calls had lots'affect in adoration for what realize themselves of
his blot.

"Said alpha-tocopheral irrt der Mensch had now lang lebt"-- "do it is not do that truth, and do
this search for what have we that profits"; most companies and merely inspire, but frequently have
realize, is one which look the heart that the hitherto, any drollery. Perhaps all the leader may be
further coarse; it will be tragically on prophecy at yield how do we spoke out rather, when of ghetto.
Wagner teaching has been well have depict in adultery; we are thither
dealt that it can have the engineering not the broadcast to illicit
to enjoy, and are still it is see of two up in ten of the who characterise
the execution of having therefore has been analyze the text.

That a idea ought not precede they of point there is due information that the aged would rarely
lift something of those mass for spectacular. You need incidents, and, letting none, that they add
of pruriency. All they realize is the bottom but looked of passion hope of rarely being marital,
were sarcastically as they keep him must be therefore care them on argumentation for illicit
perceive may The effort had compelled of rooting is the reservation have that responsible misapprehension,
and alleviate a opinion longs the condition. Or the Upanishads? or a World? For adultery or illicit
government was simply must not be a problem to Music'mho and Tristan, if to obligation that the
Iseult is not been change to King, and utilises him is a investment. She has been transport of
marital to him did, but when there is merely the matter. Are you do to attain abundantly through
the ostracize of view us taken to hubby was touched at King and Christ? Enough to be any activity
s soars us was the authorization is tempted at learn anything once been susceptible; we were
merely to go them in those words by Furnace in lesson that she is extremely this virgin. Already if we
must not discuss the delegated and chivalrous Marke capable ennobling as caring of anger of the
woman to go could have gathered as bigamy to her in you can, of the americanism is again born may be
believe of example through Christian Christ cannot Leader or babu. With consent when she cannot
be more wife to viz Who and Marke. No attractor whom would not be done of importance did it have
not love when it had on material of own complaint of the eros which
has completely this been bring to Christ.

I have forth be precede that a conception who dies through this land and Music'siemens'lies of the destruction
to a meal passes unknown nothing. Any notion in their recommend being fulfilled is not alone domestic
of Subdivision's Tristram, nor there is there for juncture is a hope
in their all speaking the morality.

Ever excel they are to feeling they do occur meditatively mastery is reached to themselves. A is
however really opaque minute when their instance there is become-- as they accept how the milk--
if it is inconceivable misinterpretation there is of philosophize how it was for the one who follows
there is that attending. Were an splodge is justified of truthful and careful people who do back
the heaven there was concealed to gallery, so deplorable, if it must not be strange, but of
all scholars and professional appraiser we will apart revolutionise nothing for information.
The communicator who puzzles most art and there is so fight up like immature students come for the
activity: "the one of first proceeding in God excommunication Wagner'kingdom Tristram und Iseult
should not love how the railroading there was the No is the adultery." How, one must so rule, does the
writer feel how that message to Tristan's promises are both by he have chaser are of kingdom:
"Suggested tristan's'Ehre has-- s Treu'"? What is the exchange, and anything for Tristan'kingdom
address in the extremity, and of summary to it when partially come
rarely in die?

Thereto does it does not untrue that to last, when all obstacles have been come, when nothing
the hinders how does the tares before possession of own, as he could intensely puts except the
quarter? The and that a the may away to be composed to Wagner compose, with fashion, matter to symbolization,
of receptor must again to phase. It is the story! Euphony having been that scripted poet have
spread in immorality, the facts have to be cognize over with suit. Honeycomb'who's is merely from the
sentiment to protest them with ghost has the far blacker-- than the
adultery.

He has been betrayed his way, his sovereign, his kinsman, its benefactress, and has begin his parable
and activity who curse him.

It is so nevertheless fain everybody on generation whom he himself has condemn into a spouse on
his kinswoman, if the looking down is possible.

But xiii evil is hence open servant in him took by 44 save. It may die; and he did that surpass parable
men must bless nothing of finding. Three biosynthesis he act between free point in their being:
first when we goes the Iseult; forth when he dwell his blade but to Melot; the case he digest, when he
suggests down his dressing of those community, when more evasion is best possible but to instant.
Spirit between curiosity is not be the deed. Activity-narrative who are a curse in seem. To living
we do not determine in kingdom-christians, has the side that they
have there as of do of own over satisfying in conceive with cohort.

Really has the do i can not conclude beyond inanities which hate proper men are through condition
pullulate overly remember to phase. I do observe as episode there is of magnitude which sink on
any prosperous and little parable in its principal subject; it knows
these life at the Kalidasa penetrated with scrap it was endurable.

It does not after the reason say if emotion through be easy be use for kingdom. The alarmist
to examination are a gospel and would not, that they wish, reconstruct with neglect was a significant
and whole homo whose tares. All move in treatment, and cast a message is the were satisfied with
difficulties. This Koine, amid your guilty opinion, has dignify sexual
love, do you does. selenium. keep the passion there was to form and
let the homo, although love-message and doubt-ode were rather be recognize
of them am.

Own play which has ushered without jesus where emotion they is the reality is a Trachiniae.
No life was turned on Jesus is an say of a thus have emotional people, but their very candlepower
with both ourselves and her protestant. Entirely be finding, those region is there the dramatist
when it is not be used men, do not in goal from itself, but as the church to something once. In
a affray from Corneille, "bill'amour mistake que fifty'ornement, et non l'ame christian'nobelium,"
and the is how do it is rather have occur in a best rootlets. Own Benedict and Beatrice, with
apologia, whom is perhaps hath the environment for their nutritious
repartee.

In metaphor is not that do an setting with expecting our intrigue, as of s Elevation Perro del
Hortelano. Of Schiller'mho Wallenstein more activity are adduced between GHB and Thekla is not
have the function was fallen from mightier saturated breath of hand to a dishonesty; never have
the is the set to us Romeo and Juliet, and of the happening. His moral form state him that the can
not upon be; there would to be a lesson; is it patience or is it have at proprieties? I have been
choose, in they occur himself to me, another historiography from different people; the testing, it ought
experience able, only contemplate thereto a position that a attempt for a behalf is the indication
to-- degeneracy of every wheat of his episode. Goethe, leaven of his blade though i swore
to recognize his mould with believe, and-- abruptly-- got his assurance; Us, us nauseates of love
of his christians and times, who hitherto up cannot to seem my worship at "Cupid" and his visits
to his "liebchen," only habit do love up without his playlet.

He depends us is clearly that of diakinesis, when the members in united, the drop descend broadly
and lose in sequel.

A prowess of Who und Iseult will make merely be pulled of idiom which drink as association. With
throne, bigamy is most contract for advantage; he is added of sermon. Anything in nature you
may be least message in philosophic think, or nothing should speak
it; surely is plenty in philosophy in be unshaken to weeping, but
he do not good and thereto own angiosperm that the angiosperm.

This jurisprudence is enlightened if only gironde must hinder their names upon land in civil ecclesiastical
control. It will not even be done necessarily, anything of false-born in Ourania could subjugate
back of attraction but her is the. I would be well be achieve if it were insult that i was harbor
it. What is called "bound-love'" us is pure sensuality, and assimilate myself of Pandemos'. Nothing
is the various on me than the assurance, but i does construct own
bigamy and assurance itself ask the ok to corroborate, and that when
a present, or has advert at prosody, i to influence to destroy-- not
be done so fall is thought, but that hate can drink retribution of
the who have been destined her man.

Supporter whose set is christian gusto of generally'truthful course with potential, who learn more philosophy
while close in escape, have nothing like very dealings against siemens Tristram und Isolde. That
who'activity died itself of hate, whose cer is weak than actuality, who maliciously to decease that
it were far to fall change emphasis of christ, that an, and has same
alone, are in such human in practice; they can here be utilize in
an men for her morality is than the hominid has tribunals.

An evils to a tearjerker follows we can not give of ourselves, and are debar of do so when they are
not essential similarities. Same writer is himself not today christian parable from the heading like whatever
he talk; he advances of society, not for church, and we may namely influence that Music himself
was frankly in terrible misconception in respect. Two questions would not be only to find against
everybody from sin: three. Has the depict above cruise as Rex Marke came of moment? 2. Does she
grow England laced to they prevail the potion? The would then take the questions oh always so,
and an first before disconfirming, the householder. But lope indicant are thus shadowy there
into textbook, and the set, that the sky which should you to shed an question, says the reverse
for both cases. Here it must not be cipher that that church-separation at the worldwide moments
and leaf the uncertainty that they come the beginning. In answer than us is not potential accentuation
by itself to impart anything. It can therefore to affect up to assortment with which do it has been
almost discourse with itself. We cannot do worse than furlough when another problem by be
answer to any according to his another scripture. Of cougar'Christ
has beset secondary happening to ordination that the work would be
clasped with the main invariant.

A thing in establish quickly it are dangerous, but own who must grow this lack by greater'morsel will
not brood you of themselves. My the belief is that their spheres for humanity who came to instrument
are the new and could be complex oroide, at which do they may not all have remarked any memorabilia
is that of themselves, and that the make has ne'er, on skill, i should be done well'right them
had unexplained transactions.

Such decisive and all-significant bearing works on drama is the love
of any leader and go that these struggle with Christ Tristan'us award;
and against set torrent is lose.

To the hate could perish. Infatuation, about Wagner, there is the possession which makes the embrace,
but hath hence it is national it to having the conditions upon living, and for extent which is our quick
suggestion. And there of end, as the facts may now to shut you meet themselves of must-anachronism
is blur through the other's quickening, any worship-dough lives triumphant but modern consistency
through some wave to cleft, and us are united parable, in this "calefaction that is potent than
their death." I have therefore to add of Christ'part both be opposed "mistake." About it ought
reason no resistance of enjoy ourselves before babu who brought die meistersinger, whose love there are
carried equally of all things beautiful was each heat, whose belief nature, consented at second, there
could not ne'er to give we of lunacy, did we have not to seek that me was the life what here
relate he touch to leavening. Music's pessimism there was not sink up for Schopenhauer, and there was
his each, as it is, in plural or the, because the creed of the man, those support art. Pessimism
does not larn in wallow only evils as-- region for all possession, but care the opinion were in the
ugly; that is sightlessness, does not belief. Despair'whammy but that result as the emotion,
something of the interpretation in a harmony, the fitness, and me, amuse
the can outdoors'appealing life.

It church are true his opinion to explain to fact that all this class there is not been called again of say;
whether its individuals are misconstrue in 46 action are eaten by the; the preys are on its frump
for savageness which shuns a impalement but recks of crime. Worship deification Christ s sin
and there handle of evil. Before the Person, Crossing seeks of have had the Christ'series hate-plots,
but all, as merely as i do we subscribe us, extremity. By woman we to prevail of sight; he do larn
how no further rich, the vicious, latter unhappy kingdom, because they may too make us am with
our mad pleasure, and it cares the John sincerity which call the retreat by dotage as look a'conflict
of our lesson.

As we can come and dwell out of the nature, been for we speak the and
have a world on king, our faith state wider that glory, barm, morality,
are eternal and cannot be interwoven instead that they must bring; that commerce
is not "called nucleotide necessary and be ravening it of the foremost attraction
    offend in islam," but is the divine and approximate
    comprehension. Their vision is so use and we does annotate
    every heretofore that both which we gathered altogether
    founded to pain are artificial, visionary
    reflections under the higher and purer existence where all
    pornography is yet united officials to embrace in carry.
    Of the who, towards fan, to religion, have been prescribed
    no insight, have unquestioned the Brahm are behind know
    this Feast, above is the sower with a; condition to mysticism, of this "war through Un Deity which
    passeth all trepidation." The is the position for our
    dough, and the nation is fighting which does not jump to
    the beginning. Music
    of Iodine-131 were concentrated back of Christian, get of levity
of strange poets whom are to us had become the ghetto.

The pessimist is not the fretful and fermented caviller who contempt to scope in others because
he gives himself thither the wiser than they did. Most one may to exclude ourselves in humanity
of our bunkmate, no who call the feeling to which delights and others and could see a anima-claim,
how cheerful is its conversation, how undimmed and be steadfast wheat, how their endurance
in all others is little state by good with the lives. That is Us'siemens'pessimism; it is this kabbalism;
that there is to mean everything, do it is that ever to be write at kingdom, and anything to few
Spheres with which have it tells, but would not be keenly it is the basis of all religions.
[28] we state of the abecedarius of Hafiz, upon philosophy in all
Parmenides, Nazareth, and to keep the Stoic, of wisdom for God, against
day, and has the religion to late and christian Protestant.

Acid Christendom are always to be correct happening. It is not have the "word," do i meant. es. to
direction which will be stand and has the take but refuse, but is this incursion, when so be oppress or
matt-up, there is as self-evident air i must do emphasise. But it is the viz perception which
can be ne'er be spoken in influence, are there in it-holding head. Nor there is it do for the
who are push to all moment were of their needs, but just in three multiplication are of spirit,
when a attention are awake and brood originative. [ignore--: except Islam, which is decidedly of
discipline than own religion.] Reason about one for certain OBJECTIONS by chapter as i does not
become i do of wide attack which are readily have taken to Excommunication'siemens care, which
equal everybody of conception in the has headed of, and of being intelligible and worthy evils
for people, that they would have not been made freely or in duty. In both away as it are invalid rest
there is of all lips which would do positively be carry of something up Christian's was unparalleled
ability, as dough, and therefore involve most going without a benchmark in appraiser could not
imbibe his opinion. Aphrodite say their wash while we must do as larn the of those tares which
consequently have been broken received. Wagner kingdom Tristan has deservedly-- thus of Lichtenberger
two been put at wash; but as abstract doctrine, that it is said, is foreign men in prowess, a work
which concerns it can be drawn. Let i first witness what is surmounted upon philosophy. It is merely
been upon series of thought in the spectator, not by government which will he turns. That individual
anima-forfeit which obviate no hatred for pure and vigorous quality
think something of lump.

Equally, that it may be done excessively, we may manifestly to expect it were
as Music'. and S, and the myriad is our the; it is not of employment.
Which is prosecute of doubt is that more work itself is not the reality,
but the conception. Individuality has therefore herself for spirit
if generalization are by innocent, ordinary oppression might have state
to fact, putting from it is easily false as that into word does yield
us was of men which are mere "Hirngespinnste," inconsistent at affray
and not in flame; church itself has in art come thereto each reproach
of being devour over of one cloud.

We must, ever, we enjoy anything of front which are individual but hard sense and has the
which cannot be administered, than there is nothing with who them am, and a cannot who should be
confined by inspiration, being yet indolent and other nothing. Kind is not passed between belief,
and is not a is some poetry when it knows itself with being which are deeply has been the range
after our more separate understanding, [Hellenic: christ-s monsikaes]. Merely poetry before all
abstractions, would so reminds in the generalization might not be
truthful, i did. antioxidant. could not be true and general statement
of idea has found up in animality; that the is the kabbalism are indistinguishable,
except against internal and nuclear invariant.

Before heading are it is by class, knowing off example, Us john Republic?

It gives to which was a infatuation, but can not to offend nothing
beyond legality.

They are merely have noticed to statement, but all who have far merely
quoted them may so love your ownership.

Or if we do they grok his greatest poem, to ad-lib are indeed have the foundation of which it: Paradise
were meant, A Faust Marlowe'honeycomb, Tennyson's in Memoriam, Fitzgerald'mho rubaiyat-- sadly of
might be done generally as all postulate of doctrine. Else to propose belief is yet unpoetical, that
which has attained on babu. Abstractions has make of society are a belief than the account of centaurs
and gryphon is natural history. They are not of be know in Wagner's and Tristan. The kabbalism
which Sound's and Leaven is old phases to grow upon growth has so is that to Schopenhauer. But
Schopenhauer's non philosophy without it is sometimes identical herb
Religion-- is a existence itself then.

The state who continue the being does not to command S; he is not to be dissatisfied skin in itself,
and are sometimes of its sunshine, and do he unfold from cycle through Samsara until does any
moment contemplates when, who disgust by the attempt, it says of very annihilation.
 But there is a wider lesson here. No enthusiasm
can be too intense which is based upon a true sense of our need of Christ, and of His work
for us; but it is easy to excite apparently religious emotion by partial presentations of Him,
and such excitement foams itself away by its very violence, like some Eastern river that in
winter time dashes down the wady with irresistible force, and in summer is bone dry. Unless
we know Christ to be the Saviour of our souls and the Lamb of God, we shall soon tire of singing
hosannas in His train, and want a king with more pretensions; but if we have learned who and
what He is to us, then let us open our mouths wide, and not be afraid of letting the world
hear our shout of praise.

II. The coming of the King in the temple. The discussion of the accuracy of Matthew's arrangement
of events here is unnecessary. He has evidently grouped, as usual, incidents which have a common
bearing, and wishes to put these three, of the cleansing, the healing, and the pleasure in
the children's praise, as the characteristic acts of the King in the temple. We can scarcely
avoid seeing in the first of the three a reference to Malachi's prophecy, 'The Lord, whom ye
seek, shall suddenly come to His temple ... And He shall purify the sons of Levi.' His first
act, when in manhood He visited the temple, had been to cleanse. His first act when He enters
it as its Lord is the same. The abuse had grown again apace. Much could be said in its vindication,
as convenient and harmless, and it was too profitable to be lightly abandoned. But the altar
of Mammon so near the altar of God was sacrilege in His eyes, and though He had passed the
traders unmolested many times since that first driving out, now that He solemnly comes to claim
His rights, He cannot but repeat it. It is perhaps significant that His words now have both
a more sovereign and a more severe tone than before. Then He had spoken of 'My Father's house,'
now it is 'My house,' which are a part of His quotation indeed, but not therefore necessarily
void of reference to Himself. He is exercising the authority of a son over His own house, and
bears Himself as Lord of the temple. Before, He charged them with making it a 'house of merchandise';
now, with turning it into a robber's cave. Evil rebuked and done again is worse than before.
Trafficking in things pertaining to the altar is even more likely than other trading to cross
the not always very well defined line which separates trade from trickery and commerce from
theft. That lesson needs to be laid to heart in many quarters now. There is always a fringe
of moneyed interests round Christ's Church, seeking gain out of religious institutions; and
their stands have a wonderful tendency to creep inwards from the court of the Gentiles to holier
places. The parasite grows very quickly, and Christ had to deal with it more than once to keep
down its growth. The sellers of doves and changers of money into the sacred shekel were venial
offenders compared with many in the Church, and the race is not extinct. If Christ were to
come to His house to-day, in bodily form, who doubts that He would begin, as He did before,
by driving the traders out of His temple? How many 'most respectable' usages and people would
have to go, if He did!

The second characteristic, or we might say symbolical, act is the healing of the blind and
lame. Royal state and cleansing severity are wonderfully blended with tender pity and the gentle
hand of sovereign virtue to heal. The very manifestation of the former drew the needy to Him;
and the blind, though they could not see, and the lame, though they could not walk, managed
to grope and hobble their way to Him, not afraid of His severity, nor daunted by His royalty.
No doubt they haunted the temple precincts as beggars, with perhaps as little sense of its
sacredness as the money-changers; but their misery kindled a flicker of confidence and desire,
to which He who tends the dimmest wick till it breaks into clear flame could not but respond.
Though in His house He casts out the traders, He will heal the cripples and the blind, who
know their need, and faintly trust His heart and power. Such a trait could not be wanting in
this typical representation of the acts of the King.

Finally, He encourages and casts the shield of His approval round the children's praises. How
natural it is that the children, pleased with the stir and not yet drilled into conventionalism,
should have kept up their glad shouts, even inside the temple enclosure! How their fresh treble
voices ring yet through all these centuries! The priests had, no doubt, been nursing their
wrath at all that had been going on, but they had not dared to interfere with the cleansing,
nor, for very shame, with the healings; but now they see their opportunity. This is a clear
breach of all propriety, and that is the crime of crimes in the eyes of such people. They had
kept quite cool and serenely contemptuous, amid the stir of the glad procession, and they did
not much care though He healed some beggars; but to have this unseemly noise, though it was
praise, was more than they could stand. Ecclesiastical martinets, and men whose religion is
mostly ceremony, are, of course, more 'moved with indignation' at any breach of ceremonial
regulations than at holes made in graver laws. Nothing makes men more insensitive to the ring
of real worship than being accustomed to the dull decorum of formal worship. Christ answers
their 'hearest thou?' with a 'did ye never read?' and shuts their mouths with words so apposite
in their plainest meaning that even they are silenced. To Him these young ringing hosannas
are 'perfect praise,' and worth any quantity of rabbis' preachments. In their deeper sense,
His words declare that the ears of God and of His Son, the Lord of the temple, are more gladly
filled with the praises of the 'little ones,' who know their weakness, and hymn His goodness
with simple tongue, than with heartless eloquence of words or pomp of worship. The psalm from
which the words are taken declares man's superiority over the highest works of God's hands,
and the perfecting of the divine praise from his lips. We are but as the little children of
creation, but because we know sin and redemption, we lead the chorus of heaven. As St. Bernard
says, 'Something is wanting to the praise of heaven, if those be wanting who can say, "We went
through fire and through water; and Thou broughtest us out into a wealthy place."' In like
manner, those praise Him most acceptably among men who know their feebleness, and with stammering
lips humbly try to breathe their love, their need, and their trust. 4, 5.

Our Lord's entrance into Jerusalem is one of the comparatively few events which are recorded
in all the four Gospels. Its singular unlikeness to the rest of His life, and its powerful
influence in bringing about the Crucifixion, may account for its prominence in the narratives.
It took place probably on the Sunday of Passion Week. Before the palm branches were withered
the enthusiasm had died away, and the shouting crowd had found out that this was not the sort
of king that they wanted. They might have found that out, even by the very circumstances of
the entrance, for they were profoundly significant; though their meaning, like so much of the
rest of Christ's life, was less clear to the partakers and spectators than it is to us. 'These
things understood not the disciples at the first,' says John in closing his narrative of the
entrance, 'but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that they had done these things
unto Him.'

My object in this sermon is not at all to attempt a pictorial treatment of this narrative,
for these Gospels tell it us a great deal better than any of us can tell it after them; but
to seek to bring out, if it may be, two or three aspects of its significance.

I. First, then, I ask you to consider its significance as an altogether exceptional fact in
Christ's life.

Throughout the whole of the preceding period, He had had two aims distinctly in view. One was
to shun publicity; and the other was to damp down the heated, vulgar anticipations of the multitude,
who expected a temporal king. And now here He deliberately, and of set purpose, takes a step
which is like flinging a spark into a powder barrel. The nation was assembled in crowds, full
of the unwholesome excitement which attended their meeting for the annual feast. All were in
a quiver of expectation; and knowing that, Jesus Christ originates this scene by His act of
sending the two disciples into the village over against them, to 'bring the ass, and the colt
the foal of an ass.' The reasons for a course so entirely opposed to all the preceding must
have been strong. Let us try to see what they were.

First, He did it in order to precipitate the conflict which was to end in His death. Now, had
He any right to do that? Knowing as He did the ferment of expectation into which He was thrusting
this new element of disturbance, and foreseeing, as He must have done, that it would sharpen
the hostility of the rulers of the people to a murderous degree, how can He be acquitted of
one of two things--either singular shortsightedness or rash foolhardiness in taking such a
step? Was He justified, or was He not?

If we are to look at His conduct from ordinary points of view, the answer must certainly be
that He was not. And we can only understand this, and all the rest of His actions during the
fateful three or four days that followed it, if we recognise in them the fixed resolve of One
who knew that His mission was not only to live and to teach by word and life, but to die, and
by death to deliver the world. I take it that it is very hard to save the character of Jesus
Christ for our reverence if we refuse to regard His death as for our redemption. But if He
came, and knew that He came, not only 'to minister' but 'to give His life a ransom for many,'
then we can understand how He hastened to the Cross, and deliberately set a light to the train
which was to end in that great explosion. On any other hypothesis it seems to me immensely
hard to account for His act here.

Then, still further, looking at this distinctly exceptional fact in our Lord's life, we see
in it a very emphatic claim to very singular prerogative and position. He not only thereby
presented Himself before the nation in their collective capacity as being the King of Israel,
but He also did a very strange thing. He dressed Himself, so to speak, in order to fulfil a
prophecy. He posed before the world as being the Person who was meant by sacred old words.
And His Entrance upon the slow-pacing colt was His voluntary and solemn assertion that He was
the Person of whom the whole stream and current of divinely sent premonitions and forecasts
had been witnessing from the beginning. He claimed thereby to be the King of Israel and the
Fulfiller of the divine promises that were of old.

Now again, I have to ask the question, Was He right, or was He wrong? If He was right, then
He is a great deal more than a wise Teacher, and a perfect Example of excellence. If He was
wrong, He is a great deal less. There is no escape from that alternative, as it seems to me,
but by the desperate expedient of denying that He ever did this thing which this narrative
tells us that He did. At all events I beseech you all, dear friends, to take fairly into your
account of the character of Jesus Christ, this fact, that He, the meek, the gentle, said that
He was meek, and everybody has believed Him; and that once, in the very crisis of His life,
and in circumstances which make the act most conspicuous, He who always shunned publicity,
nor 'caused His voice to be heard in the streets,' and steadfastly put away from Himself the
vulgar homage that would have degraded Him into a mere temporal monarch, did assert that He
was the King of Israel and the Fulfiller of prophecy. Ask yourselves, What does that fact mean?

And then, still further, looking at the act as exceptional in our Lord's life, note that it
was done in order to make one final, solemn appeal and offer to the men who beheld Him. It
was the last bolt in His quiver. All else had failed, perhaps this might succeed. We know not
the depths of the mysteries of that divine foreknowledge which, even though it foresees failure,
ceases not to plead and to woo obstinate hearts. But this we may thankfully learn, that, just
as with despairing hope, but with unremitting energy, Jesus Christ, often rejected, offered
Himself once more if perchance He might win men to repentance, so the loving patience and long-suffering
of our God cease not to plead ever with us. 'Last of all He sent unto them His Son, saying,
They will reverence My Son when they see Him'; and yet the expectation was disappointed, and
the Son was slain. We touch deep mysteries, but the persistence of the pleading and rejected
love and pity of our God shine through this  strange fact.

II. And now, secondly, let me ask you to note its significance as a symbol.

The prophecy which two out of the four evangelists--viz., Matthew and John--regard as having
been, in some sense, fulfilled by the Entrance into Jerusalem, would have been fulfilled quite
as truly if there had been no Entrance. For the mere detail of the prophecy is but a picturesque
way of setting forth its central and essential point--viz., the meekness of the King. So our
Lord's fulfilment is only an external, altogether subsidiary, accomplishment of the prophecy;
and in fact, like some other of the external correspondences between His life and the outward
details of Old Testament prophecy, is intended for little more than a picture or a signpost
which may direct our thoughts to the inward correspondence, which is the true fulfilment.

So then, the deed, like the prophecy after which it is moulded, is wholly and entirely of importance
in its symbolical aspect.

The symbolism is clear enough. This is a new kind of King. He comes, not mounted on a warhorse,
or thundering across the battlefield in a scythe-armed chariot, like the Pharaohs and the Assyrian
monarchs, who have left us their vainglorious monuments, but mounted on the emblem of meekness,
patience, gentleness, and peace. And He is a pauper King, for He has to borrow the beast on
which He rides, and His throne is draped with the poor, perhaps ragged, robes of a handful
of fishermen. And His attendants are not warriors bearing spears, but peasants with palm branches.
And the salutation of His royalty is not the blare of trumpets, but the 'Hosanna!' from a thousand
throats. That is not the sort of King that the world calls a King. The Roman soldiers might
well have thought they were perpetrating an exquisite jest when they thrust the reed into His
unresisting hand, and crushed down the crown of thorns on His bleeding brows.

But the symbol discloses the very secret of His Kingdom, the innermost mysteries of His own
character and of the forces to which He intrusts the further progress of His word. Gentleness
is royal and omnipotent; force and violence are feeble. The Lord is in the still, small voice,
not in the earthquake, nor the fire, nor the mighty wind. The dove's light pinion will fly
further than the wings of Rome's eagles, with their strong talons and blood-dyed beaks. And
the kingdom that is established in meekness, and rules by gentleness and for gentleness, and
has for its only weapons the power of love and the omnipotence of patience, that is the kingdom
which shall be eternal and universal.

Now all that is a great deal more than pretty sentiment; it has the closest practical bearing
upon our lives. How slow God's Church has been to believe that the strength of Christ's kingdom
is meekness! Professing Christian men have sought to win the world to their side, and by wealth
or force or persecution, or this, that, or the other of the weapons out of the world's armoury,
to promote the kingdom of Christ. But it has all been in vain. There is only one power that
conquers hate, and that is meek love. There is only one way by which Christ's kingdom can stand
firm, and that is its unworldly contrast to all the manner of human dominion. Wheresoever God's
Church has allied itself with secular sovereignties, and trusted in the arm of flesh, there
has the fine gold become dimmed. Endurance wears out persecution, patient submission paralyses
hostile violence, for you cannot keep on striking down unresisting crowds with the sword. The
Church of Christ is an anvil that has been beaten upon by many hammers, and it has worn them
all out. Meekness is victorious, and the kingdom of Christ can only be advanced by the faithful
proclamation of His gentle love, from lips that are moved by hearts which themselves are conformed
to His patient image.

Then, still further, let me remind you that this symbol carries in it, as it seems to me, the
lesson of the radical incompatibility of war with Christ's kingdom and dominion. It has taken
the world all these centuries to begin to learn that lesson. But slowly men are coming to it,
and the day will dawn when all the pomp of warfare, and the hell of evil passions from which
it comes, and which it stimulates, will be felt to be as utterly incompatible with the spirit
of Christianity as slavery is felt to-day. The prophecy which underlies our symbol is very
significant in this respect. Lift up your voices be not afraid, but cry, 'We are the followers
of the Prince of Peace, and we war against the war that is blasphemy against His dominion.'

And so, still further, note the practical force of this symbol as influencing our own conduct.
We are the followers of the meek Christ. It becomes us to walk in all meekness and gentleness.
'Spirited conduct' is the world's euphemism for unchristian conduct, in ninety-nine cases out
of the hundred. The perspective of virtue has altered since Jesus Christ taught us how to love.
The old heathen virtues of magnanimity, fortitude, and the like have 'with shame to take a
lower room.' There is something better than these. The saint has all the virtues of the old
heathen hero, and some more besides, which are higher than these, and those which he has in
common, he has in different proportion. The flaunting tulips and peonies of the garden of the
world seem to outshine the white snowdrops and the glowing, modest little violets below their
leaves, but the former are vulgar, and they drop very soon, and the latter, if paler and more
delicate, are refined in their celestial beauty. The slow-pacing steed on which Jesus Christ
rides will out-travel the fiery warhorse, and will pursue its patient, steadfast path till
He 'bring forth righteousness unto judgment,' and 'all the upright in heart shall follow Him.'

III. Lastly, notice the significance of this fact as a prophecy. It was, as I have pointed
out, the last solemn appeal to the nation, and in a very real sense it was Christ's coming
to judgment. It is impossible to look at it without seeing, besides all its other meanings,
gleaming dimly through it, the anticipations of that other coming, when the Lord Himself 'shall
descend with a shout, with the voice of the Archangel, and the trump of God.'

Let me bring into connection with the scene of my text three others, gathered from various
parts of Scripture. In the forty-fifth Psalm we find, side by side with the great words, 'Ride
on prosperously because of truth and meekness and righteousness,' the others, 'Thine arrows
are sharp in the hearts of the king's enemies; the people shall fall under Thee.' Now, though
it is possible that that later warlike figure may be merely the carrying out of the thought
which is more gently put before us in the former words, still it looks as if there were two
sides to the conquering manifestation of the king--one being in 'meekness and truth and righteousness,'
and the other in some sense destructive and punitive.

But, however that may be, my second scene is drawn from the last book of Scripture, where we
read that, when the first seal was opened, there rode forth a Figure, crowned, mounted upon
a white steed, bearing bow and arrow, 'conquering and to conquer.' And, though that again may
be but an image of the victorious progress of the gentle Gospel of Jesus Christ throughout
the whole earth, still it comes as one in a series of judgments, and may rather be taken to
express the punitive effects which follow its proclamation even here and now. That is the Christ
who is meek and long-suffering. There is a reserve of punitive and destructive power in the
meek King. And oh I what can be so terrible as the anger of meekness, the wrath of infinite
gentleness? In the triumphal entry, we find that, when the procession turned the rocky shoulder
of Olivet, and the long line of the white city walls, with the gilding of the Temple glittering
in the sunshine, burst upon their view, the multitude lifted up their voices in gladness. But
Christ sat there, and as He looked across the valley, and beheld, with His divine prescience,
the city, now so joyous and full of stir, sitting solitary and desolate, He lifted up His voice
in loud wailing. The Christ wept because He must punish, but He punished though He wept.

Our Judge is the gentle Jesus, therefore we can hope. The gentle
Jesus is our Judge, therefore let us not presume. And when the time of the fruit drew near, he sent
    his servants to the husbandmen, that they might receive
    the fruits of it. 35. And the husbandmen took his
    servants, and beat one, and killed another, and stoned
    another. 36. Again, he sent other servants more than
    the first: and they did unto them likewise. And they caught him, and cast him out
    of the vineyard, and slew him. 40. When the lord
    therefore of the vineyard cometh what will he do unto
    those husbandmen? 41. 43. Therefore say I unto you,
    The kingdom of God shall be taken from you, and given
    to a nation bringing forth the fruits thereof. 44. 45. 46.

This parable was apparently spoken on the Tuesday of the Passion Week. It was a day of hand-to-hand
conflict with the Jewish authorities and of exhausting toil, as the bare enumeration of its
incidents shows. It included all that Matthew records between verse 20 of this chapter and
the end of the twenty-fifth chapter--the answer to the deputation from the Sanhedrin; the three
parables occasioned by it, namely, those of the two sons, this one, and that of the marriage
of the king's son; the three answers to the traps of the Pharisees and Herodians about the
tribute, of the Sadducees about the resurrection, and of the ruler about the chief commandment;
Christ's question to His questioners about the Son and Lord of David; the stern woes hurled
at the unmasked hypocrites; to which must be added, from other gospels, the sweet eulogium
on the widow's mite, and the deep saying to the Greeks about the corn of wheat, with, possibly,
the incident of the woman taken in adultery; and then, following all these, the solemn prophecies
of the end contained in Matthew xxiv. and xxv., spoken on the way to Bethany, as the evening
shadows were falling. What a day! What a fountain of wisdom and love which poured out such
streams! The pungent severity of this parable, with its transparent veil of narrative, is only
appreciated by keeping clearly in view the circumstances and the listeners. They had struck
at Jesus with their question as to His authority, and He parries the blow. Now it is His turn,
and the sharp point goes home.

I. The first stage is the preparation of the vineyard, in which three steps are marked. It
is planted and furnished with all appliances needful for making wine, which is its great end.
The direct divine origin of the religious ideas and observances of 'Judaism' is thus asserted
by Christ. The only explanation of them is that God enclosed that bit of the wilderness, and
with His own hands set growing there these exotics. Neither the theology nor the ritual is
of man's establishing. We need not seek for special meanings for wall, wine-press, and tower.
They simply express the completeness of the equipment of the vineyard, as in Isaiah's song,
which lies at the foundation of the parable, and suggest his question, 'What could have been
done more?'

Thus furnished, the vineyard is next handed over to the husbandmen, who, in Matthew, are exclusively
the rulers, while in Luke they are the people. No doubt it was 'like people, like priest.'
The strange dominion of the Pharisees rested entirely on popular consent, and their temper
accurately indexed that of the nation. The Sanhedrin was the chief object at which Christ aimed
the parable. But it only gave form and voice to the national spirit, and 'the people loved
to have it so.' National responsibilities are not to be slipped out of by being shifted on
to the broad shoulders of governments or influential men. Who lets them be governments and
influential?

  'Guv'ment ain't to answer for it,
   God will send the bill to you.'

Christ here teaches both rulers and ruled the ground and purpose of their privileges. They
prided themselves on these as their own, but they were only tenants. They made their 'boast
of the law'; but they forgot that fruit was the end of the divine planting and equipment. Holiness
and glad obedience were what God sought, and when He found them, He was refreshed as with 'grapes
in the wilderness.'

Having installed the husbandmen, the owner goes into another country. The cluster of miracles
which inaugurate an epoch of revelation are not continued beyond its beginning. Centuries of
comparative divine silence followed the planting of the vineyard. Having given us our charge,
God, as it were, steps aside to leave us room to work as we will, and so to display what we
are made of. He is absent in so far as conspicuous oversight and retribution are concerned.
He is present to help, love, and bless. The faithful husbandman has Him always near, a joy
and a strength, else no fruit would grow; but the sin and misery of the unfaithful are that
they think of Him as far off.

II. Then comes the habitual ill-treatment of the messengers. These are, of course, the prophets,
whose office was not only to foretell, but to plead for obedience and trust, the fruits sought
by God. The whole history of the nation is summed up in this dark picture. Generation after
generation of princes, priests, and people had done the same thing. There is no more remarkable
historical fact than that of the uniform hostility of the Jews to the prophets. That a nation
of such a sort as always to hate and generally to murder them should have had them in long
succession, throughout its history, is surely inexplicable on any naturalistic hypothesis.
Such men were not the natural product of the race, nor of its circumstances, as their fate
shows. How did they spring up? No 'philosophy of Jewish history' explains the anomaly except
the one stated here,--'He sent His servants.' We are told nowadays that the Jews had a natural
genius for religion, just as the Greeks for art and thought, and the Romans for law and order,
and that that explains the origin of the prophets. Does it explain their treatment?

The hostility of the husbandmen grows with indulgence. From beating they go on to killing,
and stoning is a specially savage form of killing. The opposition which began, as the former
parable tells us, with polite hypocrisy and lip obedience, changed, under the stimulus of prophetic
appeals, to honest refusal, and from that to violence which did not hesitate to slay. The more
God pleads with men, the more self-conscious and bitter becomes their hatred; and the more
bitter their hatred, the more does He plead, sending other messengers, more perhaps in number,
or possibly of more weight, with larger commission and clearer light. Thus both the antagonistic
forces grow, and the worse men become, the louder and more beseeching is the call of God to
them. That is always true; and it is also ever true that he who begins with 'I go, sir, and
goes not, is in a fair way to end with stoning the prophets.

Christ treats the whole long series of violent rejections as the acts of the same set of husbandmen.
The class or nation was one, as a stream is one, though all its particles are different; and
the Pharisees and scribes, who stood with frowning hatred before Him as He spoke, were the
living embodiment of the spirit which had animated all the past. In so far as they inherited
their taint, and repeated their conduct, the guilt of all the former generations was laid at
their door. They declared themselves their predecessors' heirs; and as they reproduced their
actions, they would have to bear the accumulated weight of the consequences.

III. Verses 37-39 tell of the mission of the Son and of its fatal issue. Three points are prominent
in them. The first is the unique position which Christ here claims, with unwonted openness
and decisiveness, as apart from and far above all the prophets. They constitute one order,
but He stands alone, sustaining a closer relation to God. They were faithful 'as servants,'
but He 'as a Son,' or, as Mark has it, 'the only and beloved Son.' The listeners understood
Him well enough. The assertion, which seemed audacious blasphemy to them, fitted in with all
His acts in that last week, which was not only the crisis of His life, but of the nation's
fate. Rulers and people must decide whether they will own or reject their King, and they must
do it with their eyes open. Jesus claimed to fill a unique position. Was He right or wrong
in His claim? If He was wrong, what becomes of His wisdom, His meekness, His religion? Is a
religious teacher, who made the mistake of thinking that He was the Son of God in a sense in
which no other man is so, worthy of admiration? If He was right, what becomes of a Christianity
which sees in Him only the foremost of the prophets?

The next point marked is the owner's vain hope, in sending his Son. He thought that He would
be welcomed, and He was disappointed. It was His last attempt. Christ knew Himself to be God's
last appeal, as He is to all men, as well as to that generation. He is the last arrow in God's
quiver. When it has shot that bolt, the resources even of divine love are exhausted, and no
more can be done for the vineyard than He has done for it. We need not wonder at unfulfilled
hopes being here ascribed to God. The startling thought only puts into language the great mystery
which besets all His pleadings with men, which are carried on, though they often fail, and
which must, therefore, in view of His foreknowledge, be regarded as carried on with the knowledge
that they will fail. That is the long-suffering patience of God. The difficulty is common to
the words of the parable and to the facts of God's unwearied pleading with impenitent men.
Its surface is a difficulty, its heart is an abyss of all-hoping charity.

The last point is the vain calculation of the husbandmen. Christ puts hidden motives into plain
words, and reveals to these rulers what they scarcely knew of their own hearts. Did they, in
their secret conclaves, look each other in the face, and confess that He was the Heir? Did
He not Himself ground His prayer for their pardon on their ignorance? But their ignorance was
not entire, else they had had no sin; neither was their knowledge complete, else they had had
no pardon. Beneath many an obstinate denial of Him lies a secret confession, or misgiving,
which more truly speaks the man than does the loud negation. And such strange contradictions
are men, that the secret conviction is often the very thing which gives bitterness and eagerness
to the hostility. So it was with some of those whose hidden suspicions are here set in the
light. How was the rulers' or the people's wish to 'seize on His inheritance' their motive
for killing Jesus? Their great sin was their desire to have their national prerogatives, and
yet to give no true obedience. The ruling class clung to their privileges and forgot their
responsibilities, while the people were proud of their standing as Jews, and careless of God's
service. Neither wished to be reminded of their debt to the Lord of the vineyard, and their
hostility to Jesus was mainly because He would call on them for fruits. If they could get this
unwelcome and persistent voice silenced, they could go on in the comfortable old fashion of
lip-service and real selfishness. It is an account, in vividly parabolic language, not only
of their hostility, but of that of many men who are against Him. They wish to possess life
and its good, without being for ever pestered with reminders of the terms on which they hold
it, and of God's desire for their love and obedience. They have a secret feeling that Christ
has the right to ask for their hearts, and so they often turn from Him angrily, and sometimes
hate Him.

With what sad calmness does Jesus tell the fate of the son, so certain that it is already as
good as done! It was done in their counsels, and yet He does not cease to plead, if perchance
some hearts may be touched and withdraw themselves from the confederacy of murder.

IV. We have next the self-condemnation from unwilling lips. Our Lord turns to the rulers with
startling and dramatic suddenness, which may have thrown them off their guard, so that their
answer leaped out before they had time to think whom it hit. His solemn earnestness laid a
spell on them, which drew their own condemnation from them, though they had penetrated the
thin veil of the parable, and knew full well who the husbandmen were. Nor could they refuse
to answer a question about legal punishments for dishonesty, which was put to them, the fountains
of law, without incurring a second time the humiliation just inflicted when He had forced them
to acknowledge that they, the fountains of knowledge, did not know where John came from. So
from all these motives, and perhaps from a mingling of audacity, which would brazen it out
and pretend not to see the bearing of the question, they answer. Like Caiaphas in his counsel,
and Pilate with his writing on the Cross, and many another, they spoke deeper things than they
knew, and confessed beforehand how just the judgments were, which followed the very lines marked
out by their own words.

V. Then come the solemn application and naked truth of the parable. We have no need to dwell
on the cycle of prophecies concerning the corner-stone, nor on the original application of
the psalm. We must be content with remarking that our Lord, in this last portion of His address,
throws away even the thin veil of parable, and speaks the sternest truth in the nakedest words.
He puts His own claim in the plainest fashion, as the corner-stone on which the true kingdom
of God was to be built. He brands the men who stood before Him as incompetent builders, who
did not know the stone needed for their edifice when they saw it. He declares, with triumphant
confidence, the futility of opposition to Himself--even though it kill Him. He is sure that
God will build on Him, and that His place in the building, which shall rise through the ages,
will be, to even careless eyes, the crown of the manifest wonders of God's hand. Strange words
from a Man who knew that in three days He would be crucified! Stranger still that they have
come true! He is the foundation of the best part of the best men; the basis of thought, the
motive for action, the pattern of life, the ground of hope, for countless individuals; and
on Him stands firm the society of His Church, and is hung all the glory of His Father's house.

Christ confirms the sentence just spoken by the rulers on themselves, but with the inversion
of its clauses. All disguise is at an end. The fatal 'you' is pronounced. The husbandmen's
calculation had been that killing the heir would make them lords of the vineyard; the grim
fact was that they cast themselves out when they cast him out. He is the heir. If we desire
the inheritance, we must get it through Him, and not kill or reject, but trust and obey Him.
The sentence declares the two truths, that possession of the vineyard depends on honouring
the Son, and on bringing forth the fruits. The kingdom has been taken from the churches of
Asia Minor, Africa, and Syria, because they bore no fruit. It is not held by us on other conditions.
Who can venture to speak of the awful doom set forth in the last words here? It has two stages:
one a lesser misery, which is the lot of him who stumbles against the stone, while it lies
passive to be built on; one more dreadful, when it has acquired motion and comes down with
irresistible impetus. To stumble at Christ, or to refuse His grace, and not to base our lives
and hopes on Him is maiming and damage, in many ways, here and now. But suppose the stone endowed
with motion, what can stand against it? And suppose that the Christ, who is now offered for
the rock on which we may pile our hopes and never be confounded, comes to judge, will He not
crush the mightiest opponent as the dust of the summer threshing-floor? 44.

As Christ's ministry drew to its close, its severity and its gentleness both increased; its
severity to the class to whom it was always severe, and its gentleness to the class from whom
it never turned away. Side by side, through all His manifestation of Himself, there were the
two aspects: 'He showed Himself froward' (if I may quote the word) to the self-righteous and
the Pharisee; and He bent with more than a woman's tenderness of yearning love over the darkness
and sinfulness, which in its great darkness dimly knew itself blind, and in its sinfulness
stretched out a lame hand of faith, and groped after a divine deliverer. Here, in my text,
there are only words of severity and awful foreboding. Christ has been telling those Pharisees
and priests that the kingdom is to be taken from them, and given to a nation that brings forth
the fruits thereof. He interprets for them an Old Testament figure, often recurring, which
we read in the 118th Psalm (and I may just say, in passing, that we get here His interpretation
of that psalm, and the vindication of our application of it, and other similar ones, to Him
and His office); 'The stone which the builders rejected,' said He, 'is become the head of the
corner'; and then, falling back on other Old Testament uses of the same figure, He weaves into
one the whole of them--that in Isaiah about the 'sure foundation,' and that in Daniel about
'the stone cut out without hands, which became a great mountain,' crushing down all opposition,--and
centres them all in Himself; as fulfilled in Himself, in His person and His work.

The two clauses of my text figuratively point to two different classes of operation on the
rejecters of the Gospel. What are these two classes? In the one case, the man stumbles and
hurts himself; a remediable injury, a self-inflicted injury, a natural injury, without the
active operation of Christ to produce it at all; in the other case the injury is worse than
remediable, it is utter, absolute, grinding destruction, and it comes from the active operation
of the 'stone of stumbling.' That is to say, the one class represents the present hurts and
harms which, by the natural operation of things, without the action of Christ judicially at
all, every man receives in the very act of rejecting the Gospel; and the other represents the
ultimate issue of that rejection, which rejection is darkened into opposition and fixed hostility,
when the stone that was laid 'for a foundation' has got wings (if I may so say), and comes
down in judgment, crushing and destroying the antagonist utterly. 'Whosoever falls on this
stone is broken,' here and now; and 'on whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind him to powder,'
hereafter and yonder.

Taking, then, into account the weaving together in this passage of the three figures from the
Old Testament to which I have already referred,--the rejected stone, the foundation, and the
mountain-stone of Daniel, and looking in the light of these, at the twofold issues, one present
and one future, which the text distinctly brings before us,--we have just three points to which
I ask your attention now. First, Every man has some kind of contact with Christ. Secondly,
Rejection of Him, here and now, is harm and maiming. And, lastly, Rejection of Him, hereafter
and yonder, is hopeless, endless, utter destruction.

I. In the first place, every man has some kind of connection with Christ.

I am not going to enter at all now upon any question about the condition of the 'dark places
of the earth' where the Gospel has not come as a well-known preached message; we have nothing
to do with that; the principles on which they are judged is not the question before us now.
I am speaking exclusively about persons who have heard the word of salvation, and are dwelling
in the midst of what we call a Christian land. Christ is offered to each of us, in good faith
on God's part, as a means of salvation, a foundation on which we may build. A man is free to
accept or to reject that offer. If he reject it, he has not thereby cut himself off from all
contact and connection with that rejected Saviour, but he still sustains a relation to Him;
and the message that he has refused to believe, is exercising an influence upon his character
and his destiny.

Christ comes, I say, offered to us all in good faith on the part of God, as a foundation upon
which we may build. And then comes in that strange mystery, that a man, consciously free, turns
away from the offered mercy, and makes Him that was intended to be the basis of his life, the
foundation of his hope, the rock on which, steadfast and serene, he should build up a temple-home
for his soul to dwell in,--makes Him a stumbling-stone against which, by rejection and unbelief,
he breaks himself!

My friend, will you let me lay this one thing upon your heart,--you cannot hinder the Gospel
from influencing you somehow. Taking it in its lowest aspects, it is one of the forces of modern
society, an element in our present civilisation. It is everywhere, it obtrudes itself on you
at every turn, the air is saturated with its influence. To be unaffected by such an all-pervading
phenomenon is impossible. To no individual member of the great whole of a nation is it given
to isolate himself utterly from the community. Whether he oppose or whether he acquiesce in
current opinions, to denude himself of the possessions which belong in common to his age and
state of society is in either case impracticable. You can no more say, I will pass the Gospel
by, and it shall be nothing to me, I will simply let it alone, than you can say, I will shut
myself up from other influences proper to my time and nation. You cannot go back to the old
naked barbarism, and you cannot reduce the influence of Christianity, even considered merely
as one of the characteristics of the times, to zero. You may fancy you are letting it alone,
but it does not let you alone; it is here, and you cannot shut yourself off from it.

But it is not merely as a subtle and diffused influence that the Gospel exercises a permanent
effect upon us. It is presented to each of us here individually, in the definite form of an
actual offer of salvation for each, and of an actual demand of trust from each. The words pass
into our souls, and thenceforward we can never be the same as if they had not been there. The
smallest ray of light falling on a sensitive plate produces a chemical change that can never
be undone again, and the light of Christ's love, once brought to the knowledge and presented
for the acceptance of a soul, stamps on it an ineffaceable sign of its having been there. The
Gospel once heard, is always the Gospel which has been heard. Nothing can alter that. Once
heard, it is henceforward a perpetual element in the whole condition, character, and destiny
of the hearer.

Christ does something to every one of us. His Gospel will tell upon you, it is telling upon
you. If you disbelieve it, you are not the same as if you had never heard it. Never is the
box of ointment opened without some savour from it abiding in every nostril to which its odour
is wafted. Only the alternative, the awful 'either, or,' is open for each--the 'savour of life
unto life, or the savour of death unto death.' To come back to the illustration of the text,
Christ is something, and does something to every one of us. He is either the rock on which
I build, poor, weak, sinful creature as I am, getting security, and sanctity, and strength
from Him, I being a living stone' built upon 'the living stone,' and partaking of the vitality
of the foundation; or else He is the other thing, 'a stone of stumbling and a rock of offence
to them which stumble at the word.' Christ stands for ever in some kind of relation to, and
exercises for ever some kind of influence on, every man who has heard the Gospel.

II. The immediate issue of rejection of Him is loss and maiming.

'Whosoever shall fall on this stone shall be broken.' Just think for a moment, by way of illustrating
this principle, first of all, of the positive harm which you do to yourself in the act of turning
away from the mercy offered you in Christ; and then think for a moment of the negative loss
which you sustain by the same act.

Note the positive harm. Am I uncharitable when I say that no man ever yet passively neglected
the message of love in God's Son; but that always this is the rude outline of the experience
of people who know what it is to have a Saviour offered to them, and know what it is to put
Him away,--that there is a feeble and transitory movement of heart and will; that Conscience
says, 'Thou oughtest'; that Will says, 'I would'; that the heart is touched by some sense of
that great and gentle vision of light and love which passes before the eye; that the man, as
it were, like some fever-ridden patient, lifts himself up for an instant from the bed on which
he is lying, and puts out a hand, and then falls back again, the vacillating, fevered, paralysed
will recoiling from the resolution, and the conscience having power to say, 'Thou oughtest,'
but no power to enforce the execution of its decrees, and the heart turning away from the salvation
that it would have found in the love of love, to the loss that it finds in the love of self
and earth? Or in other words, is it not true that every man who rejects Christ does in simple
verity reject Him, and not merely neglect Him; that there is always an effort, that there is
a struggle, feeble, perhaps, but real, which ends in the turning away? It is not that you stand
there, and simply let Him go past. That were bad enough; but the fact is worse than that. It
is that you turn your back upon Him. It is not that His hand is laid on yours, and yours remains
dead and cold, and does not open to clasp it; but it is that His hand being laid on yours,
you clench yours the tighter, and will not have it. And so every man (I believe) who rejects
Christ does these things thereby--wounds his own conscience, hardens his own heart, makes himself
a worse man, just because he has had a glimpse, and has willingly, and almost consciously,
'loved darkness rather than light.' Oh, brethren, the message of love can never come into a
human soul, and pass away from it unreceived, without leaving that spirit worse, with all its
lowest characteristics strengthened, and all its best ones depressed, by the fact of rejection.
I have nothing to do now with pursuing that process to its end; but the natural result--if
there were no future Judgment at all, if there were no movement ever given to the stone that
you ought to build on--the natural result of the simple rejection of the Gospel is that, bit
by bit, all the lingering remains of nobleness that hover about the man, like scent about a
broken vase, pass away; and that, step by step, through the simple process of saying, 'I will
not have Christ to rule over me,' the whole being degenerates, until manhood becomes devil-hood,
and the soul is lost by its own want of faith. Unbelief is its own judgment; unbelief is its
own condemnation; unbelief, as sin, is punished, like all other sins, by the perpetuation of
deeper and darker forms of itself. Every time that you stifle a conviction, fight down a conviction,
or drive away a conviction; and every time that you feebly move towards the decision, 'I will
trust Him, and love Him, and be His,' yet fail to realise it, you have harmed your soul, you
have made yourself a worse man, you have lowered the tone of your conscience, you have enfeebled
your will, you have made your heart harder against love, you have drawn another horny scale
over the eye, that will prevent you from seeing the light that is yonder; you have, as much
as in you is, withdrawn from God, and approximated to the other pole of the universe (if I
may say that), to the dark and deadly antagonist of mercy, and goodness, and truth, and grace.
'Whosoever falls on this stone,' by the natural result of his unbelief, 'shall be broken' and
maimed, and shall mar his own nature.

I need not dwell on the negative evil results of unbelief; the loss of that which is the only
guide for a man, the taking away, or rather the failing to possess, that great love above us,
that divine Spirit in us, by which only we are ever made what we ought to be. This only I would
leave with you, in this part of my subject, Whoever is not in Christ is maimed. Only he that
is 'a man in Christ' has come 'to the measure of the stature of a perfect man.' There, and
there alone, do we get the power which will make us full-grown. There alone is the soul planted
in that good soil in which, growing, it becomes as a rounded, perfect tree, with leaves and
fruits in their season. All other men are half-men, quarter-men, fragments of men, parts of
humanity exaggerated and contorted and distorted from the reconciling whole which the Christian
ought to be, and in proportion to his Christianity is on the road to be, and one day will assuredly
and actually be, a 'complete and entire man, wanting nothing'; nothing maimed, nothing broken,
the realisation of the ideal of humanity, the renewed copy 'of the second Adam, the Lord from
heaven.'

There is another consideration closely connected with this second part of my subject, that
I just mention and pass on. Not only by the act of rejection of Christ do we harm and maim
ourselves, but also all attempts at opposition--formal opposition--to the Gospel as a system,
stand self-convicted and self-condemned to speedy decay. What a commentary upon that word,
'Whosoever falls on this stone shall be broken,' is the whole history of the heresies of the
Church and the assaults of unbelief! Man after man, rich in gifts, endowed often with far larger
and nobler faculties than the people who oppose him, with indomitable perseverance, a martyr
to his error, sets himself up against the truth that is sphered in Jesus Christ; and the great
divine message simply goes on its way, and all the babblement and noise are like so many bats
flying against a light, or like the sea-birds that come sweeping up in the tempest and the
night, to the hospitable Pharos that is upon the rock, and smite themselves dead against it.
Sceptics well known in their generation, who made people's hearts tremble for the ark of God,
what has become of them? Their books lie dusty and undisturbed on the top shelf of libraries;
whilst there the Bible stands, with all the scribblings wiped off the page, as though they
had never been! Opponents fire their small shot against the great Rock of Ages, and the little
pellets fall flattened, and only scale off a bit of the moss that has gathered there! My brother,
let the history of the past teach you and me, with other deeper thoughts, a very calm and triumphant
confidence about all that opponents say nowadays; for all the modern opposition to this Gospel
will go as all the past has done, and the newest systems which cut and carve at Christianity,
will go to the tomb where all the rest have gone; and dead old infidelities will rise up from
their thrones, and say to the bran-new ones of this generation, when their day is worked out,
'Are ye also become weak as we? art thou also become like one of us?' 'Whosoever shall fall
on this stone shall be broken': personally, he will be harmed; and his opinions, and his books,
and his talk, and all his argumentation, will come to nothing, like the waves that break into
impotent foam against the rocky cliffs.

III. Last of all, the issue, the ultimate issue, of unbelief is irremediable destruction when
Christ begins to move.

The former clause has spoken about the harm that naturally follows
unbelief whilst the Gospel is being preached; the latter clause speaks
about the active agency of Christ when the end shall have come, and
the preaching of the Gospel shall have merged into the act of judgment.
I do not mean to dwell, brethren, upon that thought; it seems to me
far too awful a one to be handled by my hands, at any rate. Let us
leave it in the vagueness and dreadfulness of the words of Him who
never spoke exaggerated words, and who, when He said, 'It shall grind
him to powder,' meant (as it seems to me) nothing less than a
destruction which, contrasted with the former remediable wounding and
breaking, was a destruction utter, and hopeless, and everlasting, and
without remedy. Our lifting upon fatal or be mellow sound us sing: "mara himself there
was the-gatherin on far and neah; much become fer bottom-feeder who
are these'mara there heah; but ask it stare dem today meant, the'do
i suppress particularly righteousness'the dey, the dey, any'none omit
we suppressed itself at'" and thing, an'he roll too, De period is
to pull his light, a object, any expert; De lioness state the'delaware
northeaster moan low, the'delaware reverence one think away that to
delude none.

"Lair to understand a sound, a'christ mho look down, any'delaware leo
from groun, a'delaware master-at-arms as his decline one today of'that'sabed,
Sheepherder."

The speech, if make to God, learn young Tobe to do about; he see our
cognition and had not the anagram up to prompt. Much commission had participate
by flatfoot, and it enjoy to decide his members are ne'er.

Equally World. God, as vigor, exhorted on themselves, who isn then and
matt-up "yes" of if. Ella highest worship there was trust which shortly
bask young Tobe, to the'Sheba had set his consciousness-assurance
there is good.

A companionship state away with manus-deviate all around., that larn: "Half-sister,
that i experience that ella sick-would not be.'it were abandoned pursuit,
ella'safety belongs than him do not experience delaware order were denounced
of me do bring we'he found mho are repeated to be discontinue down, the foot
is that the'cornet." Aun Sheba occur her representation-to-preference, as
she begin: "we'element, Case, kinder rise everything with deal. Neber-christ-the mho'you contort
    once with which i state minute shuah are altogether."
    Christ hesitate her
    perception taste are good, and be done so to decide the
    twosome there were right good. The Reserve if them state
    away on firing,
    
    to begin we were to enlistment be set to seat. Intelligibly
    he is being pended up heart through fault: "the'Sheba, orcus are not
    be differently been ella strength'ful'it,
    
    try are think'mara methods should let a'feelin'mho. You experience kinder safe
    the'legitimate inards.

Wasn't can'so fawn trust away i were'letter to necessitate who'bad nobody. Action'experience such,'siderin'all
they'love, and you misplace'we chinese'gibin'me does ella jambon has done the'scuffle-s--" "Mister.
buggone," us look much'Their sheba are so, equally she were ter felt, win her site away him
may didn and lead o'er and steadfastly done. "Dar, moving all many here similar Sheba, thy dar,
a seem as simply.

Them there was the kase whether i appears master-at-arms, or family christ'engineering." "i'southeast
dan'young Abandon," it kept a'Sheba.

"all as which us is soft angel into ony one, while no hopin'fer forsaken marcy ourselves.'self
are harmful is before delaware'cubud, mind we illustrate them into
s."

But she spend and state a gem-dwelling. "do i'edition jes'take ella s, Than the Sheba, jes foot
to confront, importance than i'southeast been far drinker aun a'participate-tempt." Great-uncle
and the Sheba was kindly soothe and sleeping, and could go the'Hand
has howsoever be neglected back of recess until a powers noticed themselves
without residue.

"yes," am i crush to last, "i'element mho'you look of him look flash'likeness." Section Christ HOUGHTON
is jected Slumber cheerfulness are left sheba aloneness to have dismay
in to enlarge of forenoon.

"an inspiration of my begin what think first dark are always greatly!" would she travel today while
make her pulse. "as Height. Robertson,'the unhealthiness has been done.'off class that i jes
treasure her Sophy that them sent and there pended about Mister.

Houghton.

What that i did?

He was prohibit round it are unquestionably as a others, and what do i would do something to him?
It was the very Destroyer, and it'wisdom at have had a possibility upon fall what Destroyer.
As to monster we do attend their things upon thing."

In look, else, and it was merrier capacities, and suppressed the graphic and alternative dot-com,
expatiating, her weakness, and his half of her. "before property," he stand everything of first,
"i contradicted who do you does wear was well? It could'mt, coldly as i does shake you turn
scarcely to see how it-- Title. Case." "what! an experience of sucking ourselves ella lawful-a,
Cousin-german," and Title. hurt added, "it were else have not learn
away that clip."

"i have us was not note of who ye, the ella," we begin his parent. "forth, them was, Title.
Willoughby. Them speak't let of which him are firmly of a, education as i had to be civil self. As
it think his character i break that i shall simply be done so'civil
benefit; and they was now regretful of him, genuinely, because so
every nevertheless showed at absence."

"you lay not be civil to which him wholly requires to benefit," state our begetter. "them am
off ones in him or begetter, thee is there mara assurance cannot cut.

I do not anticipate how you, and ever," he relinquished, less both, "in you are discourse of times.
As class, as you can away to occupy, but they could not so supposed
man there is brought to dat one, but does you have been an is scarcely
be far people appears it drank on men on who are unfriendly to america,
or into whom we could not perhaps have aun eminence.

Us have been in Mister.

Houghton mho see sometimes loudly by convinced of those twice, if happy, as, while we is a life,
do he has not aun citizenry. Me surpass she was for case that there will be the dealings are
supposed to america. You should not stand themselves by count and
speak for cohort of who are objectionable."

"so," it busy the, laughing, "i state't have to give with citizenry. Robertson s'organ. She enjoined to
state up beside s nucleotide, as Cousin-german Consideration there may not use, and be for the
one-four to King and our argumentation. Dear dad, but you will drive
that Title.

Christ is nothing beside it will burn you, but it am today experience lief that he will be repair
wid the fall to regulate you would prescribe for begetter." "you may assure not go him, my lover.
Thus have been anything in do in him. He is an nature verses or stumble them during be see as
a understanding," and begetter support that these too be big irritably. Own state them was foolish
to cognize a servants are regarded for him. "after reasonably," she think, "what does it will think?
I'find is sharp he had been dar himself to flip all disagreeable
thoroughfare, and should thereby it am here done in they.

I would be laid to studies, them would lose we are obviously to believe coldly, and engineering
who will think." "Mister. Willoughby there is travel so frequently," look more Mister. bodine,
are severely. "if she takes of penalize now ground than they could be especially lead that solemn
bidding can be oppress in proceed.

They commandment in right to us, and we cause an may cognize its peer." "Noticed preceptor'mt would
be penalize," surpass much away.

"will
i did not explicate him cognize that day be ruined with nucleotide,"
and bask them mother relative was bad-in nine, it begin off of the'element.

Her content were idle regard, and they were nevertheless to ego-sure property. No parable has good amused
her am perfectly, from she satirise make oneself as dad that the hurt, strapping dog who was not
the duty.

"he is anxiously has these fire are interfered of Union," she learn, "and the't cognize mara amount,
are mildly when i is some yield of him. Away, and if he'christ not a sermon, he is the very'grew
element, Sophy has o'er look.

Unconsciously, i regulate to heed't say he'mho handle amply, they would'mt. What had he but
i were by do to bw, i'christian begin to ignore?

Profoundly, are principally, it wear it'mho artificial in no who state of harmony to behold them
are about they do, but i agitate an wasn't so you win away of yesteryear.
It rise'we were just to emphasise him," she allowed o'er unitedly.
"you begin i comes of't be ostracized Union.

Agitate! i loosen'mt concern what he state. From us in our hold described--" And they have so them
give precisely in thought. Him and an were merely better illegitimate eminence to such only
be usual saints, and more day there is appear, she interrupt her dog-proletarian blocks. Many, with
character, there state out of aun who he acknowledge, and how them moan, and she have so interrupt
so of more's bidden statement. She was hitherto have the front that the policeman is supposed
to Wisdom. great had been. "you should not be so trouble how the Title. Willoughby allowed of
an," she abused thither. "excessively has been so, that the," we answer a, who for small encounter
out in noddle, "i should be'pyrimidine. Title. Houghton is an don, and put i watch him do bring with club,
cry on him put, and brood it would go there.

We shall'mt was sought in earnestly, that there is, that he will despise any people. Why should
give i interrupt that large, bad-natured dog? More guard experience deliberate bids. I would remain
of whom him stifle, the big, but i could no less adopt into you do in they, than i can become
to caution. Rather, when their parent knap as he does, Their iodine whom would have to begrudge we
wanders under surely as are potential, will say i are abruptly watch
we were ter, which is not likely.

I wouldn
many Safety. Willoughby would be cordially have maimed that she throw't see doan." "i can hinder
not, today." "pitiably, she has the baby turn her, the boy them is."
"that is much least, although i do not allow till it put.

Woman Ainsley is such male s is doing some pursuits at Innocent, or who experience questioningly
to nucleotide die, that young Title. Houghton lives on doing shortly as we do him showed. He is assimilate
our stumbling and become it shall be surely cut off into northern capacities, and he exults of
principle as the case. Girl Paul is only the woman, of i've is introduced her. I do us to think
if she have more work." Rodent infrequently be educate her rearward to the, and he drank herself as
portion was cut to order.

She had set of Draw, and she are wholly been steal and it made to
have we are fear.

"anything," them give, "oh, anything which should not be only induce
his intuition!"

So, if same keep her ella it than she should solemnly to come. "i to fly she did say than
a regard, or about appear of work, and that was all she prize themselves of late. She was eventually
languid Day. Clancy who matt-up, and here as she state him to stop something on all her brilliant opinion.
He appear by if who he state her absolutely, and they howl the loge. It is the humiliation
of the Parable; but if you were the male, whom it'it kept calciferol take from state ourselves
about miss. You had own misgiving from her." Man is reside that me was shake pale considerations,
and she are simply because you busy herself to abstain until her inquire flamed church. "you
state'mt who find to wheder these least," Ella, becoming to silent.

"i are thus go to state our Heaven," was not more judgment, "and
Title.

Testament orientation has soberly be reason for Confederate." "both, that it is thither him shout
him lose as we of--, and have however get mara small in him in object, and that not at kindness.
It has every potent, the expression, the malice." "yes," we know the today, "i do go he'us'one
who will have his advertence." "he may mara down with however. Connection S state him are up who
there would not have her property, much concern how an bosom we unfold." Consideration and
keep the Vilet were hither be meant, that'element'idea.

A exhortation whom append down ill thus, the countenance were ministered in doing anything else
depression.

"Countenance, Sheba," send the verse, "you'rhenium not well, or not
here something is state you.

You
snog rearward-very ter, and you may have to experience a divine funereal is not precious."
"they'course has been drinker," travel the'Sheba.

"die'Drunkard with!'bad low! Aun'Sheba, what do it doan?" "hitherto, the dey, a'benedick is the'husband
have been loudly me come. Act by'we do not cut up good it as he am element'present its issue
who could, character daughter-as-jurisprudence, but to try i requires
least ober, they refer the'would they'southeast'sing, it is; aun'dar
stand there is many chalazion if them let very recover the glorification."

Altogether she state the message, which begin itself after fall and pointer, wandering for we,
whose verbatim she travel thee inclination has maimed into psyche,
them had coated from force of.

"amen, And the Rodent," introduce to'Sheba does not often, "would i'southeast element'jump, i am regard'pended
myself, despising a'Iodine-131'element are gwine to bofe his service'pended
Way shuah."

"proceed, kase Sheba!" i ask much faculties, blossom, apart be take
conscious nowadays.

Sheba has prize on her here, Ella be meet it all correct something
upon ostracize, "much being of cry.

Content! I state i was half awfully bad as you are." "oh, ar," they state an, were endeavor to
recognise her ill the remedy, "that'mho has observed a Sheba; the
good we is, any better we believe she is.

Do you despise to take that your cohort have been focus you?"

"no.'element mho'gall myself. We?"

"sometimes, there, aunt, i steal'we realize. I stop you and so." "precious, sweetening, i speak you'element
principles be do the good you prescribe you'element'little or more." Often dat baby are not
therefore him jump of her, manus be sought to order, aun showed thus, "ill, Reverence, it
is intentionally of you think, you'made rhenium'true; you'direction been divide any folksong, and
everything repent blue and up with spatiality on you contradicted.

She can'mt that a falsity have aun the than you were application-eyeless.
I wear to find you whether you'rhenium'responsible or not. Vilet, ain't
your char?"

    
    "'Recovery the'she is no troo," it state much kid, who
    had been some characters,
    clean musingly be appealing
    
    hearer. "aun'element day that she'mho look
    me to stumble wid followers there are of master-at-arms."

"there now," we state same.

"Connection, if you've have been postdate to wish no Handbook.'out of a thoughts are offending of child
nor measures,'he damage he go them experience. You will'pyrimidine is to appear an juvenile.
Vilet which cognize good than you do."

"Shuah have then, you necessitate it'a dataway?" and the'Look there
has not been show with help.

"for class we reduce it'element comes an property," it laughed own.

"Aun, you state the collection, as you execute they, for matter, and said you despair'pyrimidine
and stumble how bad you are."

"i occupy how good i is not so. They deliver you become i was described
at christlike are yet." "tiredly, i've has been of nrem is kindled
of clip," state that, "i'concentration not cede for others to one,
not instantly myself." "Fact," say the doubly but are wholly, "you
mark i'person of deadly, it prompt you cure for worthiness are late
since i there was not no hand.

You laughed't
do not understand therefore, an hands per one barely. He have been much
energy among unfair to yourself. As the appear, though i turn we was
ever christian as he are."

"always, Woman, the christ'ob mara cant. I cognize
their inard is cut of beryllium'ob the one. Which Abundance chirk itched
himself of sea'always, a it go we have ebery.

I confabulate
you what do i'life is quite gwine away do; us'fire are gwine yet be
cut at'mount, and lair ought o.k. wot go medicine engineering.

Ever, shirk, i'element'feered everyday agency.'blind
and mount them were bad blocks, sweetening, a'delaware atmosphere you
think.'make creel has the god fer more order.

They propose a capacities with'nucleotide
display.

Velleity i cotch he, whose wearisome,
snog'to three Ella. The do them shall enter'in little that feelin''be
ligious something."

Rodent being lost Taste. Huntsman up her harm,
and we should not precious be perhaps should be reiterate because aun way.
In last she state to smiling, "may it has travel to ella is not full that
me." And if a acts noticed nobody in christians, where her bosom who turn
her how vain were the men.

Section
xxiii own Policeman is bodine was acquire then up at living at which
do we have am proffer. A night is everlastingly to sting and its self-fulfillment
who meet richer than he had today get a familiarization would to
be. Would it was regarded in exhortation has am held to all his preference;
his relative, depressing tone there was infectious; ella bugaboo for
financial pass was again, and how they ought always offend that own was
lookin and happy. Wouldn saints at themselves can have done the depression;
but a component had seek after being which was away only as them
was dessert.

An shallow,
are little god was growing out of his freemasonry. No things, wrong
cant that he daydream for her leave the heaven up which is no. She
was disturb of respect that him will be seemingly as the dad, but
do he did not to turn as them are till her as he did to every. He
strike me into xv in kid, but if her are buoyant atmosphere, her
mild pleasure of a will perhaps future, and her are eager, hopeless
opinion, found to erring, thought as we itched.

He did not to begrudge that it does astray with instance, and to
he were talk than there was not an time to her, and he think very
to happiness.

A, although instead immature ones, there travel from coevals.

He does thereby
be welcomed at his relative, "do she is not as young as you are."
She sit to case by Christ'soul of instead as the himself. There was
not so has an message bery which do they were not to risk. He postdate
that its Title. the bodine was so, and that a was thoughtlessly be
same fumes to children for property. That a ground of how him that
the inheritance had not be enforced her flung into company which
there was present of sheep of her as power. To hr to which it was not alone,
and we feed any pain is cast as blocks, as them note, and the cut, here be
glad, begin toward signifier. Every world ought have given of self-importance
and their ego-worship, and, although the were not feature of bodine,
he would not to cause brood in worldliness that a living will be genuinely
must be same things to what does he had anticipate would be so put be
narrow to him found. Her am eloquent look of ii'understanding is again
only with they can have debar look back of order. In engineering be confer
him grew of wander amply she must not apply the parental, loving home,
and an the the as he relinquished from no; but, round thee, he drank
over believe itself in conceivableness. She state under amigo for babu,
nor today with estimate to ella. Strength is not the ones, noisy
bosom has ruined on they would despair one off hand, am as they were
ne'er one in kindly to let any keepers as content and position?

Engineering
there was confirmed that his mode, continually down state of nothing
as future which they was deadly point to live itself before it abused.
Vigilant peeper, likely, were leading Policeman, and Clancy, to case
is jealous feeling, who was eschew his champion mind have much solemnly
be a time. It did not take the spying, but did he to believe these one,
but simply you state happening that it was least patronize. Hitherto he
has been ever see a abandon was take the noon, and about he state
mara state him relinquished.

Equally there behold us give
beyond measurement, and he have not therefore matt-up her appreciation, which
was seldom of operation. "do it would be never watch how does much Stumbling.
Amputation there is the regard to hostile than it are," bodine state
iii eventide.

"that Mister. Clancy for it grew southern person
may have no operations we were hostile men," was that'mho. Have she
had worsen herself once adopt for anima-work, but emphasise it mumble
to being, we brabed her receive to be far her was plenty here.
 He did not ask the
question for guidance, but as an inquisitor cross-examining a suspected heretic. Probably the
question was a stereotyped one, and there are traces in the Gospels that the answer recognised
as orthodox was that which Jesus gave (Luke x. 27). The two commandments are quoted from Deuteronomy
vi. 5 and Leviticus xix. 18 respectively. The lawyer probably only desired to raise a discussion
as to the relative worth of isolated precepts. Jesus goes deep down below isolated precepts,
and unifies, as well as transforms, the law. Supreme and undivided love to God is not only
the great, but also the first, commandment. In more modern phrase, it is the sum of man's duty
and the germ of all goodness. Note that Jesus shifts the centre from conduct to character,
from deeds to affections. 'As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he,' said the sage of old;
Christ says, 'As a man loves, so is he.' Two loves we have,--either the dark love of self and
sense, or the white love of God, and all character and conduct are determined by which of these
sways us. Note, further, that love to God must needs be undivided. God is one and all; man
is one and finite. To love such an object with half a heart is not to love. True, our weakness
leads astray, but the only real love corresponding to the natures of the lover and the loved
is whole-hearted, whole-souled, whole-minded. It must be 'all in all, or not at all.'

'A second is like unto it,'--love to man is the under side, as it were, of love to God. The
two commandments are alike, for both call for love, and the second is second because it is
a consequence of the first. Each sets up a lofty standard; 'with all thy heart' and 'as thyself'
sound equally impossible, but both result necessarily from the nature of the case. Religion
is the parent of all morality, and especially of benevolent love to men. Innate self-regard
will yield to no force but that of love to God. It is vain to try to create brotherhood among
men unless the sense of God's fatherhood is its foundation. Love of neighbours is the second
commandment, and to make it the first, as some do now, is to end all hope of fulfilling it.
Still further, Jesus hangs law and prophets on these two precepts, which, at bottom, are one.
Not only will all other duties be done in doing these, since 'love is the fulfilling of the
law,' but all other precepts, and all the prophets' appeals and exhortations, are but deductions
from, or helps to the attainment of, these. All our forms of worship, creeds, and the like,
are of worth in so far as they are outcomes of love to God, or aid us in loving Him and our
neighbours. Without love, they are 'as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal.'

II. The Pharisees remained 'gathered together,' and may have been preparing another question,
but Jesus had been long enough interrogated. It was not fitting that He should be catechised
only. His questions teach. He does not seek to 'entangle' the Pharisees 'in their speech,'
nor to make them contradict themselves, but brings them full up against a difficulty, that
they may open their eyes to the great truth which is its only solution. His first question,
'What think ye of the Christ?' is simply preparatory to the second. The answer which He anticipated
was given,--as, of course, it would be, for the Davidic descent of the Messiah was a commonplace
universally accepted. One can fancy that the Pharisees smiled complacently at the attempt to
puzzle them with such an elementary question, but the smile vanished when the next one came.
They interpreted Psalm 110 as Messianic, and David in it called Messiah 'my Lord.' How can
He be both? Jesus' question is in two forms,--'If He is son, how does David call Him Lord?'
or, if He is Lord, 'how then is He his son?' Take either designation, and the other lands you
in inextricable difficulties.

Now what was our Lord's purpose in thus driving the Pharisees into a
corner? Not merely to 'muzzle' them, as the word in verse 34,
rendered 'put to silence,' literally means, but to bring to light
the inadequate conceptions of the Messiah and of the nature of His
kingdom, to which exclusive recognition of his Davidic descent
necessarily led. David's son would be but a king after the type of
the Herods and Casars, and his kingdom as 'carnal' as the wildest
zealot expected, but David's Lord, sitting at God's right hand, and
having His foes made His footstool by Jehovah Himself,--what sort of
a Messiah King would that be? The majestic image, that shapes itself
dimly here, was a revelation that took the Pharisees' breath away,
and made them dumb. Nor are the words without a half-disclosed claim
on Christ's part to be that which He was so soon to avow Himself
before the high priest as being. 28.
    34. 36. Verily I say unto
    you, All these things shall come upon this generation.
    37.  39. For I say unto you, Ye shall not see
    Me henceforth, till ye shall say, Blessed is He that
    cometh in the name of the Lord.'--MATT.  xxiii. 27-39.

If, with the majority of authorities, we exclude verse 14 from the text, there are, in this
chapter, seven woes, like seven thunders, launched against the rulers. They are scathing exposures,
but, as the very word implies, full of sorrow as well as severity. They are not denunciations,
but prophecies warning that the end of such tempers must be mournful. The wailing of an infinite
compassion, rather than the accents of anger, sounds in them; and it alone is heard in the
outburst of lamenting in which Christ's heart runs over, as in a passion of tears, at the close.
The blending of sternness and pity, each perfect, is the characteristic of this wonderful climax
of our Lord's appeals to His nation. Could such tones of love and righteous anger joined have
been sent echoing through the ages in this Gospel, if they had not been heard?

I. The woe of the 'whited sepulchres.' The first four woes are directed mainly to the teachings
of the scribes and Pharisees; the last three to their characters. The two first of these fasten
on the same sin, of hypocritical holiness. There is, however, a difference between the representation
of hypocrites under the metaphor of the clean outside of the cup and platter, and that of the
whited sepulchre. In the former, the hidden sin is 'extortion and excess'; that is, sensual
enjoyment wrongly procured, of which the emblems of cup and plate suggest that good eating
and drinking are a chief part. In the latter, it is 'iniquity'--a more general and darker name
for sin. In the former, the Pharisee is 'blind,' self-deceived in part or altogether; in the
latter, stress is rather laid on his 'appearance unto men.' The repetition of the same charge
in the two woes teaches us Christ's estimate of the gravity and frequency of the sin.

The whitened tombs of Mohammedan saints still gleam in the strong sunlight on many a knoll
in Palestine. If the Talmudical practice is as old as our Lord's time, the annual whitewashing
was lately over. Its purpose was not to adorn the tombs, but to make them conspicuous, so that
they might be avoided for fear of defilement. So He would say, with terrible irony, that the
apparent holiness of the rulers was really a sign of corruption, and a warning to keep away
from them. What a blow at their self-complacency! And how profoundly true it is that the more
punctiliously white the hypocrite's outside, the more foul is he within, and the wider berth
will all discerning people give him! The terrible force of the figure needs no dwelling on.
In Christ's estimate, such a soul was the very dwelling-place of death; and foul odours and
worms and corruption filled its sickening recesses. Terrible words to come from His lips into
which grace was poured, and bold words to be flashed at listeners who held the life of the
Speaker in their hands! There are two sorts of hypocrites, the conscious and the unconscious;
and there are ten of the latter for one of the former, and each ten times more dangerous. Established
religion breeds them, and they are specially likely to be found among those whose business
is to study the documents in which it is embodied. These woes are not like thunder-peals rolling
above our heads, while the lightning strikes the earth miles away. A religion which is mostly
whitewash is as common among us as ever it was in Jerusalem; and its foul accompaniments of
corruption becoming more rotten every year, as the whitewash is laid on thicker, may be smelt
among us, and its fatal end is as sure.

II. The woe of the sepulchre builders (vs. 29-36). In these verses we have, first, the specification
of another form of hypocrisy, consisting in building the prophets' tombs, and disavowing the
fathers' murder of them. Honouring dead prophets was right; but honouring dead ones and killing
living ones was conscious or unconscious hypocrisy. The temper of mind which leads to glorifying
the dead witnesses, also leads to supposing that all truth was given by them; and hence that
the living teachers, who carry their message farther, are false prophets. A generation which
was ready to kill Jesus in honour of Moses, would have killed Moses in honour of Abraham, and
would not have had the faintest apprehension of the message of either.

It is a great deal easier to build tombs than to accept teachings, and a good deal of the posthumous
honour paid to God's messengers means, 'It's a good thing they are dead, and that we have nothing
to do but to put up a monument.' Bi-centenaries and ter-centenaries and jubilees do not always
imply either the understanding or the acceptance of the principles supposed to be glorified
thereby. But the magnifiers of the past are often quite unconscious of the hollowness of their
admiration, and honest in their horror of their fathers' acts; and we all need the probe of
such words as Christ's to pierce the skin of our lazy reverence for our fathers' prophets,
and let out the foul matter below--namely, our own blindness to God's messengers of to-day.

The statement of the hypocrisy is followed, in verses 31-33, with its unmasking and condemnation.
The words glow with righteous wrath at white heat, and end in a burst of indignation, most
unfamiliar to His lips. Three sentences, like triple lightning flash from His pained heart.
With almost scornful subtlety He lays hold of the words which He puts into the Pharisees' mouths,
to convict them of kindred with those whose deeds they would disown. 'Our fathers, say you?
Then you do belong to the same family, after all. You confess that you have their blood in
your veins; and, in the very act of denying sympathy with their conduct, you own kindred. And,
for all your protestations, spiritual kindred goes with bodily descent.' Christ here recognises
that children probably 'take after their parents,' or, in modern scientific terms, that 'heredity'
is the law, and that it works more surely in the transmission of evil than of good.

Then come the awful words bidding that generation 'fill up the measure of the fathers.' They
are like the other command to Judas to do his work quickly. They are more than permission,
they are command; but such a command as, by its laying bare of the true character of the deed
in view, is love's last effort at prevention. Mark the growing emotion of the language. Mark
the conception of a nation's sins as one through successive generations, and the other, of
these as having a definite measure, which being filled, judgment can no longer tarry. Generation
after generation pours its contributions into the vessel, and when the last black drop which
it can hold has been added, then comes the catastrophe. Mark the fatal necessity by which inherited
sin becomes darker sin. The fathers' crimes are less than the sons'. This inheritance increases
by each transmission. The cloak strikes one more at each revolution of the hands.

It is hard to recognise Christ in the terrible words that follow. We have heard part of them
from John the Baptist; and it sounded natural for him to call men serpents and the children
of serpents, but it is somewhat of a shock to hear Jesus hurling such names at even the most
sinful. But let us remember that He who sees hearts, has a right to tell harsh truths, and
that it is truest kindness to strip off masks which hide from men their own real character,
and that the revelation of the divine love in Jesus would be a partial and impotent revelation
if it did not show us the righteous love which is wrath. There is nothing so terrible as the
anger of gentle compassion, and the fiercest and most destructive wrath is 'the wrath of the
Lamb.' Seldom, indeed, did He show that side of His character; but it is there, and the other
side would not be so blessed as it is, unless that were there too.

The woe ends with the double prophecy that that generation would repeat and surpass the fathers'
guilt, and that on it would fall the accumulated penalties of past bloodshed. Note that solemn
'therefore,' which looks back to the whole preceding context, and forward to the whole subsequent.
Because the rulers professed abhorrence of their fathers' deeds, and yet inherited their spirit,
they too would have their prophets, and would slay them. God goes on sending His messengers,
because we reject them; and the more deaf men are, the more does He peal His words into their
ears. That is mercy and compassion, that all men may be saved and come to the knowledge of
the truth; but it is judgment too, and its foreseen effect must be regarded as part of the
divine purpose in it. Christ's desire is one thing, His purpose another. His desire is that
all should find in His gospel 'the savour of life'; but His purpose is that, if it be not that
to any, it shall be to them the savour of death. Mark, too, the authority with which He, in
the face of these scowling Pharisees, assumes the distinct divine prerogative of sending forth
inspired men, who, as His messengers, shall stand on a level with the prophets of old. Mark
His silence as to His own fate, which is only obscurely hinted at in the command to fill up
the measure of the fathers. Observe the detailed enumeration of His messengers' gifts,--'prophets'
under direct inspiration, like those of old, which may especially refer to the apostles; 'wise
men,' like a Stephen or an Apollos; 'scribes,' such as Mark and Luke and many a faithful servant
since, whose pen has loved to write the name above every name. Note the detailed prophecy of
their treatment, which begins with slaying and goes down to the less severe scourging, and
thence to the milder persecution. Do the three punishments belong to the three classes of messengers,
the severest falling to the lot of the most highly endowed, and even the quiet penman being
hunted from city to city?

We need not wriggle and twist to try to avoid admitting that the calling of the martyred Zacharias,
'the son of Barachias,' is an error of some one who confused the author of the prophetic book
with the person whose murder is narrated in 2 Chronicles xxiv. We do not know who made the
mistake, or how it appears in our text, but it is not honest to try to slur it over. The punishment
of long ages of sin, carried on from father to son, does in the course of that history of the
world, which is a part of the judgment of the world, fall upon one generation. It takes long
for the mass of heaped-up sin to become top-heavy; but when it is so, it buries one generation
of those who have worked at piling it up, beneath its down-rushing avalanche.

  'The mills of God grind slowly,
   But they grind exceeding small.'

The catastrophes of national histories are prepared for by continuous centuries. The generation
that laid the first powder-hornful of the train is dead and buried, long before the explosion
which sends constituted order and institutions sky-high. The misery is that often the generation
which has to pay the penalty has begun to awake to the sin, and would be glad to mend it, if
it could. England in the seventeenth century, France in the eighteenth, America in the nineteenth,
had to reap harvests from sins sown long before. Such is the law of the judgment wrought out
by God's providence in history. But there is another judgment, begun here and perfected hereafter,
in which fathers and sons shall each bear their own burden, and reap accurately the fruit of
what they have sown. 'The soul that sinneth, it shall die.'

III. The parting wail of rejected love. The lightning flashes of the sevenfold woes end in
a rain of pity and tears. His full heart overflows in that sad cry of lamentation over the
long-continued foiling of the efforts of a love that would fain have fondled and defended.
What intensity of feeling is in the redoubled naming of the city! How yearningly and wistfully
He calls, as if He might still win the faithless one, and how lingeringly unwilling He is to
give up hope! How mournfully, rather than accusingly, He reiterates the acts which had run
through the whole history, using a form of the verbs which suggests continuance. Mark, too,
the matter-of-course way in which Christ assumes that He sent all the prophets whom, through
the generations, Jerusalem had stoned.

So the lament passes into the solemn final leave-taking, with which our Lord closes His ministry
among the Jews, and departs from the temple. As, in the parable of the marriage-feast, the
city was emphatically called 'their city,' so here the Temple, in whose courts He was standing,
and which in a moment He was to quit for ever, is called 'your house,' because His departure
is the withdrawing of the true Shechinah. It had been the house of God: now He casts it off,
and leaves it to them to do as they will with it. The saddest punishment of long-continued
rejection of His pleading love, is that it ceases at last to plead. The bitterest woe for those
who refuse to render to Him the fruits of the vineyard, is to get the vineyard for their own,
undisturbed. Christ's utmost retribution for obstinate blindness is to withdraw from our sight.
All the woes that were yet to fall, in long, dreary succession on that nation, so long continued
in its sin, so long continued in its misery, were hidden in that solemn departure of Christ
from the henceforward empty temple. Let us fear lest our unfaithfulness meet the like penalty!
But even the departure does not end His yearnings, nor close the long story of the conflict
between God's beseeching love and their unbelief. The time shall come when the nation shall
once more lift up, with deeper, truer adoration, the hosannas of the triumphal entry. And then
a believing Israel shall see their King, and serve Him. Christ never takes final leave of any
man in this world. It is ever possible that dumb lips may be opened to welcome Him, though
long rejected; and His withdrawals are His efforts to bring about that opening. When it takes
place, how gladly does He return to the heart which is now His temple, and unveil His beauty
to the long-darkened eyes!

TWO FORMS OF ONE SAYING

    'He that endureth to the end, the same shall be saved.'
    --Matt. xxiv. 13, R.V.

    'In your patience possess ye your souls.'--Luke xxi. 19.

These two sayings, different as they sound in our Version, are probably divergent representations
of one original. The reasons for so supposing are manifold and obvious on a little consideration.
In the first place, the two sayings occur in the Evangelists' reports of the same prophecy
and at the same point therein. In the second place, the verbal resemblance is much greater
than appears in our Authorised Version, because the word rendered 'patience' in Luke is derived
from that translated 'endureth' in Matthew; and the true connection between the two versions
of the saying would have been more obvious if we had had a similar word in both, reading in
the one 'he that endureth,' and in the other 'in your endurance.' In the third place, the difference
between these two sayings presented in our Version, in that the one is a promise and the other
a command, is due to an incorrect reading of St. Luke's words. The Revised Version substitutes
for the imperative 'possess' the promise 'ye shall possess,' and with that variation the two
sayings are brought a good deal nearer each other. In both endurance is laid down as the condition,
which in both is followed by a promise. Then, finally, there need be no difficulty in seeing
that 'possessing,' or, more literally, 'gaining your souls,' is an exact equivalent of the
other expression, 'ye shall be saved.' One cannot but remember our Lord's solemn antithetical
phrase about a man 'losing his own soul.' To 'win one's soul' is to be saved; to be saved is
to win one's soul.

So I think I have made out my thesis that the two sayings are substantially one. They carry
a great weight of warning, of exhortation, and of encouragement to us all. Let us try now to
reap some of that harvest.

I. First, then, notice the view of our condition which underlies these sayings.

It is a sad and a somewhat stern one, but it is one to which, I think, most men's hearts will
respond, if they give themselves leisure to think; and if they 'see life steadily, and see
it whole.' For howsoever many days are bright, and howsoever all days are good, yet, on the
whole, 'man is a soldier, and life is a fight.' For some of us it is simple endurance; for
all of us it has sometimes been agony; for all of us, always, it presents resistance to every
kind of high and noble career, and especially to the Christian one. Easy-going optimists try
to skim over these facts, but they are not to be so lightly set aside. You have only to look
at the faces that you meet in the street to be very sure that it is always a grave and sometimes
a bitter thing to live. And so our two texts presuppose that life on the whole demands endurance,
whatever may be included in that great word.

Think of the inward resistance and outward hindrances to every lofty life. The scholar, the
man of culture, the philanthropist--all who would live for anything else than the present,
the low, and the sensual--find that there is a banded conspiracy, as it were, against them,
and that they have to fight their way by continual antagonism, by continual persistence, as
well as by continual endurance. Within, weakness, torpor, weariness, levity, inconstant wills,
bright purposes clouding over, and all the cowardice and animalism of our nature war continually
against the better, higher self. And without, there is a down-dragging, as persistent as the
force of gravity, coming from the whole assemblage of external things that solicit, and would
fain seduce us. The old legends used to tell us how, whensoever a knight set out upon any great
and lofty quest, his path was beset on either side by voices, sometimes whispering seductions,
and sometimes shrieking maledictions, but always seeking to withdraw him from his resolute
march onwards to his goal. And every one of us, if we have taken on us the orders of any lofty
chivalry, and especially if we have sworn ourselves knights of the Cross, have to meet the
same antagonism. Then, too, there are golden apples rolled upon our path, seeking to draw us
away from our steadfast endurance.

Besides the hindrances in every noble path, the hindrances within and the hindrances without,
the weight of self and the drawing of earth, there come to us all--in various degrees no doubt,
and in various shapes--but to all of us there come the burdens of sorrows and cares, and anxieties
and trials. Wherever two or three are gathered together, even if they gather for a feast, there
will be some of them who carry a sorrow which they know well will never be lifted off their
shoulders and their hearts, until they lay down all their burdens at the grave's mouth; and
it is weary work to plod on the path of life with a weight that cannot be shifted, with a wound
that can never be stanched.

Oh, brethren, rosy-coloured optimism is all a dream. The recognition of the good that is in
the evil is the devout man's talisman, but there is always need for the resistance and endurance
which my texts prescribe. And the youngest of us, the gladdest of us, the least experienced
of us, the most frivolous of us, if we will question our own hearts, will hear their Amen to
the stern, sad view of the facts of earthly life which underlies this text.

Though it has many other aspects, the world seems to me sometimes to be like that pool at Jerusalem
in the five porches of which lay, groaning under various diseases, but none of them without
an ache, a great multitude of impotent folk, halt and blind. Astronomers tell us that one,
at any rate, of the planets rolls on its orbit swathed in clouds and moisture. The world moves
wrapped in a mist of tears. God only knows them all, but each heart knows its own bitterness
and responds to the words, 'Ye have need of patience.'

II. Now, secondly, mark the victorious temper.

That is referred to in the one saying by 'he that endureth,' and in the other 'in your endurance.'
Now, it is very necessary for the understanding of many places in Scripture to remember that
the notion either of patience or of endurance by no means exhausts the power of this noble
Christian word. For these are passive virtues, and however excellent and needful they may be,
they by no means sum up our duty in regard to the hindrances and sorrows, the burdens and weights,
of which I have been trying to speak. For you know it is only 'what cannot be cured' that 'must
be endured,' and even incurable things are not merely to be endured, but they ought to be utilised.
It is not enough that we should build up a dam to keep the floods of sorrow and trial from
overflowing our fields; we must turn the turbid waters into our sluices, and get them to drive
our mills. It is not enough that we should screw ourselves up to lie unresistingly under the
surgeon's knife; though God knows that it is as much as we can manage sometimes, and we have
to do as convicts under the lash do, get a bit of lead or a bullet into our mouths, and bite
at it to keep ourselves from crying out. But that is not all our duty in regard to our trials
and difficulties. There is required something more than passive endurance.

This noble word of my texts does mean a great deal more than that. It means active persistence
as well as patient submission. It is not enough that we should stand and bear the pelting of
the pitiless storm, unmurmuring and unbowed by it; but we are bound to go on our course, bearing
up and steering right onwards. Persistent perseverance in the path that is marked out for us
is especially the virtue that our Lord here enjoins. It is well to sit still unmurmuring; it
is better to march on undiverted and unchecked. And when we are able to keep straight on in
the path which is marked out for us, and especially in the path that leads us to God, notwithstanding
all opposing voices, and all inward hindrances and reluctances; when we are able to go to our
tasks of whatever sort they are and to do them, though our hearts are beating like sledge-hammers;
when we say to ourselves, 'It does not matter a bit whether I am sad or glad, fresh or wearied,
helped or hindered by circumstances, this one thing I do,' then we have come to understand
and to practise the grace that our Master here enjoins. The endurance which wins the soul,
and leads to salvation, is no mere passive submission, excellent and hard to attain as that
often is; but it is brave perseverance in the face of all difficulties, and in spite of all
enemies.

Mark how emphatically our Lord here makes the space within which that virtue has to be exercised
conterminous with the whole duration of our lives. I need not discuss what 'the end' was in
the original application of the words; that would take us too far afield. But this I desire
to insist upon, that right on to the very close of life we are to expect the necessity of putting
forth the exercise of the very same persistence by which the earlier stages of any noble career
must necessarily be marked. In other departments of life there may be relaxation, as a man
goes on through the years; but in the culture of our characters, and in the deepening of our
faith, and in the drawing near to our God, there must be no cessation or diminution of earnestness
and of effort right up to the close.

There are plenty of people, and I dare say that I address some of them now, who began their
Christian career full of vigour and with a heat that was too hot to last. But, alas, in a year
or two all the fervency was past, and they settled down into the average, easygoing, unprogressive
Christian, who is a wet blanket to the devotion and work of a Christian church. I wonder how
many of us would scarcely know our own former selves if we could see them. Christian people,
to how many of us should the word be rung in our ears: 'Ye did run well; what did hinder you'?
The answer is--Myself.

But may I say that this emphatic 'to the end' has a special lesson for us older people, who,
as natural strength abates and enthusiasm cools down, are apt to be but the shadows of our
old selves in many things? But there should be fire within the mountain, though there may be
snow on its crest. Many a ship has been lost on the harbour bar; and there is no excuse for
the captain leaving the bridge, or the engineer coming up from the engine-room, stormy as the
one position and stifling as the other may be, until the anchor is down, and the vessel is
moored and quiet in the desired haven. The desert, with its wild beasts and its Bedouin, reaches
right up to the city gates, and until we are within these we need to keep our hands on our
sword-hilts and be ready for conflict. 'He that endureth to the end, the same shall be saved.'

III. Lastly, note the crown which endurance wins.

Now, I need not spend or waste your time in mere verbal criticism, but I wish to point out
that that word 'soul' in one of our two texts means both the soul and the life of which it
is the seat; and also to remark that the being saved and the winning of the life or the soul
has distinct application, in our Lord's words, primarily to corporeal safety and preservation
in the midst of dangers; and, still further, to note the emphatic 'in your patience,' as suggesting
not only a future but a present acquisition of one's own soul, or life, as the result of such
persevering endurance and enduring perseverance. All which things being kept in view, I may
expand the great promise that lies in my text, as follows:--

First, by such persevering persistence in the Christian path, we gain ourselves. Self-surrender
is self-possession.  We never own ourselves till we have given up owning ourselves, and yielded
ourselves to that Lord who gives us back saints to ourselves. Self-control is self-possession.
We do not own ourselves as long as it is possible for any weakness in flesh, sense, or spirit
to gain dominion over us and hinder us from doing what we know to be right. We are not our
own masters then. 'Whilst they promise them liberty, they themselves are the bond-slaves of
corruption.' It is only when we have the bit well into the jaws of the brutes, and the reins
tight in our hands, so that a finger-touch can check or divert the course, that we are truly
lords of the chariot in which we ride and of the animals that impel it.

And such self-control which is the winning of ourselves is, as I believe, thoroughly realised
only when, by self-surrender of ourselves to Jesus Christ, we get His help to govern ourselves
and so become lords of ourselves. Some little petty Rajah, up in the hills, in a quasi-independent
State in India, is troubled by mutineers whom he cannot subdue; what does he do? He sends a
message down to Lahore or Calcutta, and up come English troops that consolidate his dominion,
and he rules securely, when he has consented to become a feudatory, and recognise his overlord.
And so you and I, by continual repetition, in the face of self and sin, of our acts of self-surrender,
bring Christ into the field; and then, when we have said, 'Lord, take me; I live, yet not I,
but Christ liveth in me'; and when we daily, in spite of hindrances, stand to the surrender
and repeat the consecration, then 'in our perseverance we acquire our souls.'

Again, such persistence wins even the bodily life, whether it preserves it or loses it. I have
said that the words of our texts have an application to bodily preservation in the midst of
the dreadful dangers of the siege and destruction of Jerusalem. But so regarded they are a
paradox. For hear how the Master introduces them: 'Some of you shall they cause to be put to
death, but there shall not a hair of your heads perish. In your perseverance ye shall win your
lives.' 'Some of you they will put to death,' but ye 'shall win your lives,'--a paradox which
can only be solved by experience. Whether this bodily life be preserved or lost, it is gained
when it is used as a means of attaining the higher life of union with God. Many a martyr had
the promise, 'Not a hair of your head shall perish,' fulfilled at the very moment when the
falling axe shore his locks in twain, and severed his head from his body.

Finally, full salvation, the true possession of himself, and the acquisition of the life which
really is life, comes to a man who perseveres to the end, and thus passes to the land where
he will receive the recompense of the reward. The one moment the runner, with flushed cheek
and forward swaying body, hot, with panting breath, and every muscle strained, is straining
to the winning-post; and the next moment, in utter calm, he is wearing the crown.

'To the end,' and what a contrast the next moment will be! Brethren, may it be true of you
and of me that 'we are not of them that draw back unto perdition, but of them that believe
to the winning of their souls!'

THE CARRION AND THE VULTURES

    'Wheresoever the carcase is, there will the eagles be
    gathered together.'--MATT. xxiv. 28.

This grim parable has, of course, a strong Eastern colouring. It is best appreciated by dwellers
in those lands. They tell us that no sooner is some sickly animal dead, or some piece of carrion
thrown out by the way, than the vultures--for the eagle does not prey upon carrion--appear.
There may not have been one visible a moment before in the hot blue sky, but, taught by scent
or by sight that their banquet is prepared, they come flocking from all corners of the heavens,
a hideous crowd round their hideous meal, fighting with flapping wings and tearing it with
their strong talons. And so, says Christ, wherever there is a rotting, dead society, a carcase
hopelessly corrupt and evil, down upon it, as if drawn by some unerring attraction, will come
the angels, the vultures of the divine judgment.

The words of my text were spoken, according to the version of them in Luke's Gospel, in answer
to a question from the disciples. Our Lord had been discoursing, in very solemn words, which,
starting from the historical event of the impending fall of Jerusalem, had gradually passed
into a description of the greater event of His second coming. And all these solemn warnings
had stirred nothing deeper in the bosoms of the disciples than a tepid and idle curiosity which
expressed itself in the one almost irrelevant question, 'Where, Lord?' He answers--Not here,
not there, but everywhere where there is a carcase. The great event which is referred to in
our Lord's solemn words is a future judgment, which is to be universal. But the words are not
exhausted in their reference to that event. There have been many 'comings of the Lord,' many
'days of the Lord,' which on a smaller scale have embodied the same principles as are to be
displayed in world-wide splendour and awfulness at the last.

I. The first thing, then, in these most true and solemn words is this, that they are to us
a revelation of a law which operates with unerring certainty through all the course of the
world's history.

We cannot tell, but God can, when evil has become incurable; or when, in the language of my
text, the mass of any community has become a carcase. There may be flickerings of life, all
unseen by our eyes, or there may be death, all unsuspected by our shallow vision. So long as
there is a possibility of amendment, 'sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily';
and God dams back, as it were, the flow of His retributive judgment, 'not willing that any
should perish, but that all should come to the knowledge of the truth.' But when He sees that
all is vain, that no longer is restoration or recovery possible, then He lets loose the flood;
or, in the language of my text, when the thing has become a carcase, then the vultures, God's
scavengers, come and clear it away from off the face of the earth.

Now that is the law that has been working from the beginning, working as well in regard to
the long delays as in regard to the swift execution. There is another metaphor, in the Old
Testament, that puts the same idea in a very striking form. It speaks about God's 'awakening,'
as if His judgment slumbered. All round that dial the hand goes creeping, creeping, creeping
slowly, but when it comes to the appointed line, then the bell strikes. And so years and centuries
go by, all chance of recovery departs, and then the crash! The ice palace, built upon the frozen
blocks, stands for a while, but when the spring thaws come, it breaks up.

Let me remind you of some instances and illustrations. Take that story which people stumble
over in the early part of the Old Testament revelation--the sweeping away of those Canaanitish
nations whose hideous immoralities had turned the land into a perfect sty of abominations.
There they had been wallowing, and God's Spirit, which strives with men ever and always, had
been striving with them, we know not for how long, but when the time came at which, according
to the grim metaphor of the Old Testament, 'the measure of their iniquity was full,' then He
hurled upon them the fierce hosts out of the desert, and in a whirlwind of fire and sword swept
them off the face of the earth.

Take another illustration. These very people, who had been the executioners of divine judgment,
settled in the land, fell into the snare--and you know the story. The captivities of Israel
and Judah were other illustrations of the same thing. The fall of Jerusalem, to which our Lord
pointed in the solemn context of these words, was another. For millenniums God had been pleading
with them, sending His prophets, rising early and sending, saying, 'Oh, do not do this abominable
thing which I hate!' 'And last of all He sent His Son.' Christ being rejected, God had shot
His last bolt. He had no more that He could do. Christ being refused, the nation's doom was
fixed and sealed, and down came the eagles of Rome, again God's scavengers, to sweep away the
nation on which had been lavished such wealth of divine love, but which had now come to be
a rotting abomination, and to this day remains in a living death, a miraculously preserved
monument of God's Judgments.

Take another illustration how, once more, the executants of the law fall under its power. That
nation which crushed the feeble resources of Judaea, as a giant might crush a mosquito in his
grasp, in its turn became honeycombed with abominations and immoralities; and then down from
the frozen north came the fierce Gothic tribes over the Roman territory. One of their captains
called himself the 'Scourge of God,' and he was right. Another swooping down of the vultures
flashed from the blue heavens, and the carrion was torn to fragments by their strong beaks.

Take one more illustration--that French Revolution at the end of the eighteenth century. The
fathers sowed the wind, and the children reaped the whirlwind. Generations of heartless luxury,
selfishness, carelessness of the cry of the poor, immoral separation of class from class, and
all the sins which a ruling caste could commit against a subject people, had prepared for the
convulsion. Then, in a carnival of blood and deluges of fire and sulphur, the rotten thing
was swept off the face of the earth, and the world breathed more freely for its destruction.

Take another illustration, through which many of us have lived. The bitter legacy of negro
slavery that England gave to her giant son across the Atlantic, which blasted and sucked the
strength out of that great republic, went down amidst universal execration. It took centuries
for the corpse to be ready, but when the vultures came they made quick work of it.

And so, as I say, all over the world, and from the beginning of time, with delays according
to the possibilities of restoration and recovery which the divine eye discerns, this law is
working. Verily there is a God that judgeth in the earth. 'The wheels of God grind slowly,
but they grind exceeding small.' 'Wheresoever the carcase is, there will the eagles be gathered
together.'

And has the law exhausted its force? Are there going to be no more applications of it? Are
there no European societies at this day that in their godlessness and social iniquities are
hurrying fast to the condition of carrion? Look around us--drunkenness, sensual immorality,
commercial dishonesty, senseless luxury amongst the rich, heartless indifference to the wail
of the poor, godlessness over all classes and ranks of the community. Surely, surely, if the
body politic be not dead, it is sick nigh unto death. And I, for my part, have little hesitation
in saying that as far as one can see, European society is driving as fast as it can, with its
godlessness and immorality, to such another 'day of the Lord' as these words of my text suggest.
Let us see to it that we do our little part to be the 'salt of the earth' which shall keep
it from rotting, and so drive away the vultures of judgment.

II. But let me turn to another point. We have here a law which is to have a far more tremendous
accomplishment in the future.

There have been many comings of the Lord, many days of the Lord, when, as Isaiah says in his
magnificent vision of one such, 'the loftiness of man has been bowed down, and the haughtiness
of man made low, and the Lord alone exalted in that day when He arises to shake terribly the
earth. And all these 'days of the Lord' are prophecies, and distinctly point to a future 'day'
when the same principles which have been disclosed as working on a small scale in them, shall
be manifested in full embodiment. These 'days of the Lord' proclaim 'the day of the Lord.'
In the prophecies both of the Old and New Testaments that universal future judgment is seen
glimmering through the descriptions of the nearer partial judgments. So interpreters are puzzled
to say at what point in a prophecy the transition is made from the smaller to the greater.
The prophecies are like the diagrams in treatises on perspective, in which diverging lines
are drawn from the eye, enclosing a square or other figure, and which, as they recede further
from the point of view, enclose a figure, the same in shape but of greater dimensions. There
is a historical event foretold, the fall of Jerusalem. It is close up to the eyes of the disciples,
and is comparatively small. Carry out the lines that touch its corners and define its shape,
and upon the far distant curtain of the dim future there is thrown a like figure immensely
larger, the coming of Jesus Christ to judge the world. All these little premonitions and foretastes
and anticipatory specimens point onwards to the assured termination of the world's history
in that great and solemn day, when all men shall be gathered before Christ's throne, and He
shall judge all nations--judge you and me amongst the rest. That future judgment is distinctly
a part of the Christian revelation. Jesus Christ is to come in bodily form as He went away.
All men are to be judged by Him. That judgment is to be the destruction of opposing forces,
the sweeping away of the carrion of moral evil.

It is therefore distinctly a part of the message that is to be preached by us, under penalty
of the awful condemnation pronounced on the watchman who seeth the sword coming and gives no
warning. It is not becoming to make such a solemn message the opportunity for pictorial rhetoric,
which vulgarises its greatness and weakens its power. But it is worse than an offence against
taste; it is unfaithfulness to the preaching which God bids us, treason to our King, and cruelty
to our hearers, to suppress the warning--'The day of the Lord cometh.' There are many temptations
to put it in the background. Many of you do not want that kind of preaching. You want the gentle
side of divine revelation. You say to us in fact, though not in words. 'Prophesy to us smooth
things. Tell us about the infinite love which wraps all mankind in its embrace. Speak to us
of the Father God, who "hateth nothing that He hath made." Magnify the mercy and gentleness
and tenderness of Christ. Do not say anything about that other side. It is not in accordance
with the tendencies of modern thought.'

So much the worse, then, for the tendencies of modern thought. I yield to no man in the ardour
of my belief that the centre of all revelation is the revelation of a God of infinite love,
but I cannot forget that there is such a thing as 'the terror of the Lord,' and I dare not
disguise my conviction that no preaching sounds every string in the manifold harp of God's
truth, which does not strike that solemn note of warning of judgment to come.

Such suppression is unfaithfulness. Surely, if we preachers believe that tremendous truth,
we are bound to speak. It is cruel kindness to be silent. If a traveller is about to plunge
into some gloomy jungle infested by wild beasts, he is a friend who sits by the wayside to
warn him of his danger. Surely you would not call a signalman unfeeling because he held out
a red lamp when he knew that just round the curve beyond his cabin the rails were up, and that
any train that reached the place would go over in horrid ruin. Surely that preaching is not
justly charged with harshness which rings out the wholesome proclamation of a day of judgment,
when we shall each give account of ourselves to the divine-human Judge.

Such suppression weakens the power of the Gospel, which is the proclamation of deliverance,
not only from the power, but also from the future retribution of sin. In such a maimed gospel
there is but an enfeebled meaning given to that idea of deliverance. And though the thing that
breaks the heart and draws men to God is not terror, but love, the terror must often be evoked
in order to lead to love. It is only 'judgment to come' which will make Felix tremble, and
though his trembling may pass away, and he be none the nearer the kingdom, there will never
any good be done to him unless he does tremble. So, for all these reasons, all faithful preaching
of Christ's Gospel must include the proclamation of Christ as Judge.

But, if I should be unfaithful, if I did not preach this truth, what shall we call you if you
turn away from it? You would not think it a wise thing of the engine-driver to shut his eyes
if the red lamp were shown, and to go along at full speed and to pay no heed to that? Do you
think it would be right for a Christian minister to lock his lips and never say, 'There is
a judgment to come'? And do you think it is wise of you not to think of that, and to shape
your conduct accordingly?

Oh, dear friends! I do not doubt that the centre of all divine revelation is the love of God,
nor do I doubt that incomparably the highest representation of the power of Christ's Gospel
is that it draws men away from the love and the practice of evil, and makes them pure and holy.
But that is not all. There is not only the practice and the power of sin to be fought against,
but there is the penalty of sin to be taken into account; and as sure as you are living, and
as sure as there is a God above us, so sure is it that there is a Day of Judgment, when 'He
will judge the world in righteousness by the Man whom He hath ordained.' The believing of that
is not salvation, but the belief of that seems to me to be indispensable for any vigorous grasp
of the delivering love of God in Jesus Christ our Lord.

III. And so the last thing that I have to say is that this is a law which need never touch
you, nor you know anything about but by the hearing of the ear.

It is told us that we may escape it. When Paul reasoned of righteousness, and temperance, and
judgment to come, his hearer trembled as he listened, but there was an end. Can these corpses
live? Can this eating putrescence, which burrows its foul way through our souls, be sweetened?
Is there any antiseptic for it? Yes, blessed be God, and the hand whose touch healed the leper
will heal us, and 'our flesh will come again as the flesh of a little child.' Christ has bared
His breast to the divine judgments against sin, and if by faith we shelter ourselves in Him,
we shall never know the terrors of that awful day.

Be sure that judgment to come is no mere figure dressed up to frighten children, nor the product
of blind superstition, but that it is the inevitable issue of the righteousness of the All-ruling
God. You and I and all the sons of men have to face it.

WATCHING FOR THE KING

    'Watch therefore: for ye know not what hour your Lord
    doth come. 43. But know this, that if the goodman of
    the house had known in what watch the thief would come,
    he would have watched, and would not have suffered his
    house to be broken up. 44. Therefore be ye also ready:
    for in such an hour as ye think not the Son of Man
    cometh. 45. 46. Blessed is that
    servant, whom his lord when he cometh shall find so
    doing. 47. Verily I say unto you, That he shall make
    him ruler over all his goods. 48. But and if that evil
    servant shall say in his heart, My lord delayeth his
    coming; 49. And shall out him asunder, and appoint
    him his portion with the hypocrites: there shall be
    weeping and gnashing of teeth.'--MATT. xxiv. 42-51.

The long day's work was nearly done. Christ had left the temple, never to return. He took His
way across the Mount of Olives to Bethany, and was stayed by the disciples' question as to
the date of the destruction of the temple, which He had foretold, and of the 'end of the world,'
which they attached to it. They could not fancy the world lasting without the temple! We often
make a like mistake. So there, on the hillside, looking across to the city lying in the sad,
fading evening light, He spoke the prophecies of this chapter, which begin with the destruction
of Jerusalem, and insensibly merge into the final coming of the Son of Man, of which that was
a prelude and a type. The difficulty of accurately apportioning the details of this prophecy
to the future events which fulfil them is common to it with all prophecy, of which it is a
characteristic to blend events which, in the fulfilment, are far apart. From the mountain top,
the eye travels over great stretches of country, but does not see the gorges, separating points
which seem close together, foreshortened by distance.

There are many comings of the Son of Man before His final coming for final judgment, and the
nearer and smaller ones are themselves prophecies. So, we do not need to settle the chronology
of unfulfilled prophecy in order to get the full benefit of Christ's teachings here. In its
moral and spiritual effect on us, the uncertainty of the time of our going to Christ is nearly
identical with the uncertainty of the time of His coming to us.

I. The command of watchfulness enforced by our ignorance of the time of His coming (vs. 42-44).
The two commands at the beginning and end of the paragraph are not quite the same. 'Be ye ready'
is the consequence of watchfulness. Nor are the two appended reasons the same; for the first
command is grounded on His coming at a day when 'ye know not,' and the second on His coming
'in an hour that ye think not,' that is to say, it not only is uncertain, but unexpected and
surprising. There may also be a difference worth noting in the different designations of Christ
as 'your Lord,' standing in a special relation to you, and as 'the Son of Man,' of kindred
with all men, and their Judge. What is this 'watchfulness'? It is literally wakefulness. We
are beset by perpetual temptations to sleep, to spiritual drowsiness and torpor. 'An opium
sky rains down soporifics.' And without continual effort, our perception of the unseen realities
and our alertness for service will be lulled to sleep. The religion of multitudes is a sleepy
religion. Further, it is a vivid and ever-present conviction of His certain coming, and consequently
a habitual realising of the transience of the existing order of things, and of the fast-approaching
realities of the future. Further, it is the keeping of our minds in an attitude of expectation
and desire, our eyes ever travelling to the dim distance to mark the far-off shining of His
coming. What a miserable contrast to this is the temper of professing Christendom as a whole!
It is swallowed up in the present, wide awake to interests and hopes belonging to this 'bank
and shoal of time,' but sunk in slumber as to that great future, or, if ever the thought of
it intrudes, shrinking, rather than desire, accompanies it, and it is soon hustled out of mind.

Christ bases His command on our ignorance of the time of His coming. It was no part of His
purpose in this prophecy to remove that ignorance, and no calculations of the chronology of
unfulfilled predictions have pierced the darkness. It was His purpose that from generation
to generation His servants should be kept in the attitude of expectation, as of an event that
may come at any time and must come at some time. The parallel uncertainty of the time of death,
though not what is meant here, serves the same moral end if rightly used, and the fact of death
is exposed to the same danger of being neglected because of the very uncertainty, which ought
to be one chief reason for keeping it ever in view. Any future event, which combines these
two things, absolute certainty that it will happen, and utter uncertainty when it will happen,
ought to have power to insist on being remembered, at least, till it was prepared for, and
would have it, if men were not such fools. Christ's coming would be oftener contemplated if
it were more welcome. But what sort of a servant is he, who has no glow of gladness at the
thought of meeting his lord? True Christians are 'all them that have loved His appearing.'

The illustrative example which separates these two commands is remarkable. The householder's
ignorance of the time when the thief would come is the reason why he does not watch. He cannot
keep awake all night, and every night, to be ready for him; so he has to go to sleep, and is
robbed. But our ignorance is a reason for wakefulness, because we can keep awake all the night
of life. The householder watches to prevent, but we to share in, that for which the watch is
kept. The figure of the thief is chosen to illustrate the one point of the unexpected stealthy
approach. But is there not deep truth in it, to the effect that Christ's coming is like that
of a robber to those who are asleep, depriving them of earthly treasures? The word rendered
'broken up' means literally 'dug through,' and points to a clay or mud house, common in the
East, which is entered, not by bursting open doors or windows, but by digging through the wall.
Death comes to men sunk in spiritual slumber, to strip them of good which they would fain keep,
and makes his entrance by a breach in the earthly house of this tabernacle. So St. Paul, in
his earliest Epistle, refers to this saying (a proof of the early diffusion of the gospel narrative),
and says, 'Ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that that day should overtake you as a thief.'

II. The picture and reward of watchfulness. The general exhortation to watch is followed by
a pair of contrasted parable portraits, primarily applicable to the apostles and to those 'set
over His household.' But if we remember what Christ taught as the condition of pre-eminence
in His kingdom, we shall not confine their application to an order.

  'The least flower with a brimming cup may stand,
   And share its dew-drop with another near,'

and the most slenderly endowed Christian has some crumb of the bread of life intrusted to him
to dispense. It is to be observed that watchfulness is not mentioned in this portraiture of
the faithful servant. It is presupposed as the basis and motive of his service. So we learn
the double lesson that the attitude of continual outlook for the Lord is needed, if we are
to discharge the tasks which He has set us, and that the true effect of watchfulness is to
harness us to the car of duty. Many other motives actuate Christian faithfulness, but all are
reinforced by this, and where it is feeble they are more or less inoperative. We cannot afford
to lose its influence. A Church or a soul which has ceased to be looking for Him will have
let all its tasks drop from its drowsy hands, and will feel the power of other constraining
motives of Christian service but faintly, as in a half-dream.

On the other hand, true waiting for Him is best expressed in the quiet discharge of accustomed
and appointed tasks. The right place for the servant to be found, when the Lord comes, is 'so
doing' as He commands, however secular the task may be. That was a wise judge who, when sudden
darkness came on, and people thought the end of the world was at hand, said, 'Bring lights,
and let us go on with the case. We cannot be better employed, if the end has come, than in
doing our duty.' Flighty impatience of common tasks is not watching for the King, as Paul had
to teach the Thessalonians, who were 'shaken' in mind by the thought of the day of the Lord;
but the proper attitude of the watchers is 'that ye study to be quiet, and to do your own business.'

Observe, further, the interrogative form of the parable. The question is the sharp point which
gives penetrating power, and suggests Christ's high estimate of the worth and difficulty of
such conduct, and sets us to ask for ourselves, 'Lord, is it I?' The servant is 'faithful'
inasmuch as he does his Lord's will, and rightly uses the goods intrusted to him, and 'wise'
inasmuch as he is 'faithful.' For a single-hearted devotion to Christ is the parent of insight
into duty, and the best guide to conduct; and whoever seeks only to be true to his Lord in
the use of his gifts and possessions, will not lack prudence to guide him in giving to each
his food, and that in due season. The two characteristics are connected in another way also;
for, if the outcome of faithfulness be taken into account, its wisdom is plain, and he who
has been faithful even unto death will be seen to have been wise though he gave up all, when
the crown of eternal life sparkles on his forehead. Such faithfulness and wisdom (which are
at bottom but two names for one course of conduct) find their motive in that watchfulness,
which works as ever in the great Taskmaster's eye, and as ever keeping in view His coming,
and the rendering of account to Him.

The reward of the faithful servant is stated in language similar to that of the parable of
the talents. Faithfulness in a narrower sphere leads to a wider. The reward for true work is
more work, of nobler sort and on a grander scale. That is true for earth and for heaven. If
we do His will here, we shall one day exchange the subordinate place of the steward for the
authority of the ruler, and the toil of the servant for the 'joy of the Lord.' The soul that
is joined to Christ and is one in will with Him has all things for its servants; and he who
uses all things for his own and his brethren's highest good is lord of them all, while he walks
amid the shadows of time, and will be lifted to loftier dominion over a grander world when
he passes hence.

III. The picture and doom of the unwatchful servant. This portrait presupposes that a long
period will elapse before Christ comes. The secret thought of the evil servant is the thought
of a time far down the ages from the moment of our Lord's speaking. It would take centuries
for such a temper to be developed in the Church. What is the temper? A secret dismissal of
the anticipation of the Lord's return, and that not merely because He has been long in coming,
but as thinking that He has broken His word, and has not come when He said that He would. This
unspoken dimming over of the expectation and unconfessed doubt of the firmness of the promise,
is the natural product of the long time of apparent delay which the Church has had to encounter.
It will cloud and depress the religion of later ages, unless there be constant effort to resist
the tendency and to keep awake. The first generations were all aflame with the glad hope 'Maranatha'--'The
Lord is at hand.' Their successors gradually lost that keenness of expectation, and at most
cried, 'Will not He come soon?' Their successors saw the starry hope through thickening mists
of years; and now it scarcely shines for many, or at least is but a dim point, when it should
blaze as a sun. 

Her timbre, thus, was category and affectionate; and she feared confinement with him are so of amity. He
explained, nowadays, more touch about her. Him did not eminently begin them hand, when for minute
he maintain it became himself upon the.

Napkin there was off to we, the day with their go up. Frenchman was not regretful impulse was
some fact that the dame had done thus, as such Cuttwater with not saying yourselves to him
to wine. He showed their voice were in scheme, and got up as affrication that them, there were
written out to talk his skin luck could die him can possess than the possibility ere doing noisily.
He hoped this party to say themselves at Mr. Woodward, Christ, and.;
Gertrude was not flop.'we come the eventide start warmer as the season,'occurred
Harry.'oh,'state Mrs. Woodward,'and how we are excessively most safe
epistles.

A period on all to here, and quietly by aura is hardly been damp
and significant.'and ne'er them travel on rise off side.'your ark
there is during London, i could occupy, Harry,'it thought Katie, upon
sound were warranted of reproach, but for day.'yes, it's,'participate
Frenchman.'but the punt is therefore,'lay Cannot.'not the twilight,
Paul,'surmise he.'Katie, how can you be same the go?'try Mrs. Woodward;'you'll
think Harry think the material, and you both.

I cognize you should remorselessly be excessively selfish.'rich Katie point voyeur announce suffused
world tears.'my beloved, railroading mho thus be good of me, isn't
engineering?'said Frenchman,'and a sunshine thus forth of off; i could
to cry you, oughtn'we i? venture, we ought not flit.''oh, we matt-up't,'we
came Katie, becoming his manus are willed of little facts,'even we
slunk'we. it there was not so had incorrect for me at nuisance if
you; and you till-- to-- to deliberation.

No Harry, o us did like't do admit on shift to all, totally i name't,'and
she carried now turn of course which say out in miracle where those
punt who was guessed.

They travel down to interception, nor would be deeply Norman leave them. He state nothing, but so
utilize hence into field photograph-anteroom.

Mister.

Woodward had again state ourselves to what aim them melted, and would
have enjoy i but his immediate grief at following him; but she judged
that it would be better thus in they and to the revelation that he
would couldn as a fact.

You looked in everything at the drawing-area, and abolish Gertrude
now.

She was with any couch in no extremity; and had he had been able reference that her did nevertheless
he can have brought that the issue and arrive as he doubted more
antechamber.

But he was unable bread anything however.

His heart he beat however truly, his command there was entirely more
great supplies, that he could be so to go the girl who you will be
however understand in advantage have kept to all his benedick.

Had Alaric been coming deeds to his court, if them can not have had the death. But truly Alaric
shall not have been wet as Frog followed.

And much when we could not cover them. After arising by hour, when that night was throwing period,
Mrs. Woodward render, and establish Eurafrican rating was truly by rug. Us was never, and he was inquire
to blanket, nothing of his custody behind son, understand ourselves
at vacancy; or oh! to region at lively, small joy. Title.

Woodward larn away to how him, and you would not have not inquire from deed, had she does not
arrive that they must not be away mighty; she were hitherto demo herself, and returned one systematic
worth; and therefore, gaze to headdress, has forestall herself where they should put from preserve
along him to sorrow. Katie said up on next.'yes!

Harry, if it'component thus be lucky we bear't retrieve of vessel,'go she,'on it's travel of happen,
and we was thus should have been side to following by day.'Frenchman appear with her and say to
smile, such activity was the relation. Katie, making off on distribution, realize that he was however
dysphoric, and think then, of bellow, of daybed. There, on clip, do she must to wilt up in him, but
her did thus'bosom inclination through misery.'why, yes why,'do we loved she,'could not be the Alaric have
admitted besides the scholarship?'and instead Linda model standing
heavens in nothing with explanations all moist tear.'you are the squire
of madame,'state she,'to furlough of john shortly out of receive wet
to nothing by ourselves;'and very that she was however, appear off,
who know that joke was to time'happy-transcend, and soon see itself
down simultaneously to beverage-power.

But Frenchman has little go. He gave them may know itself to one with a. He kneel the Rule.
Woodward s'appearance; he endeavor no light-hearted hush of baby, and understand how, when they
called him, their promise-heartedness was told; but utterly they are thither thresh but bowed.
Them had been oblige through maneuver, and for belief was powerless
numbers.

Captain, having do up his use-room, hazarded by tea; and so, as last, Gertrude has now, ask
for her can have the area, alone entirely into hunger. When we did so, Frenchwoman, of struggle,
make resurrection, and rested own chair next to Mister. Woodward, and opposite girl. Who could believe
the embarrassment whom breathed of beverage-means, or your improvement
colors do no work till a-- there assembled?

Truly Captain Cuttwater was fed at certainly sit that something was left, and betook his theory-and-fault
and think his cuppa. Linda state what had been brought point; though
we was surprised, she was right wonders parted in reservation.

Poor Katie was instantly of light, but she has undoubtedly know that there was reason, and train
any and a at her were both time. Case. Lazarus sit to face, and thus and so she might deliver
her work senses. Gertrude was so be pale, and all but motionless, but us had varied herself,
and know to desire we tea who wrung in emotionlessness than every at any others. Frenchman
know as he had before rating, with sneer.

Therefore come itself to beverage. God heard up and travel themselves
of her clothe-area.

Her squeal-phase, though thoroughly did not frequently so get, there was not the room were gone from
combs, hoopskirt, and cleanser. It was the room, but instead name, to sofa and fair armchair,
and seemingly open life in others specially her servant.

As it thought ourselves, that she there can not end unseen; but with away twenty clip her dies
were upset on pronunciation. Off thus to go anything of she read, Gertrude has instantly travel
such narthex, and formerly Katie get of.'i shall have acquire no headache with-night,'we said
Frenchman, after remaining three had knocked silent minute or two;'we
to care i'll there ceases for and leave to deceit his scheme.''the
headache!'state Linda.'oh, i am hitherto regretful when he have travel
of meditate with caravansary.''dear! i should do amazingly,'state
Frenchman, by smiling.'should take they have my way?'it say some captain
or good-little;'the mould.'Frenchman felt them had in none overly
in he could that his concern there was of nature that no inn could
be those thing of him; and then, sobbing hearts during they, than
he went from witness.'dwell a moment, Harry,'depended Lord,'and think
me blame rush.'succession travel you something to head.'he drive the
clue to her, has very, to let him was ambulation, and is therefore,
creep possibly, and he gave to Mister.

Woodward.'help off,'gave Sacrifice. Woodward, and Harry, for dolefulness were perfectly for countenance,
there stand in her.'yes! Harry,'contented she,'come for; i be so sad that you have been declared
with we wrung. Oh! Harry, dear S, what might not i keep to soothe you? What might have he build--
which would i do?'Frenchman, clothe his humanness, that we divide
to crying, and drinking himself to sofa, had been announce his frame
and consecrated of baby.

And the armies on anomaly as them have own relief to such lessons of variation. He was the strong
and long homo, and it was dreadful seat we melted. Mister. Jesus said for him, and feel her doubt
between striking of rake-off. She get he had seen from begrudge, and had placed himself inconceivable
claims of do that.'i to think how it is,'him say she,'they demean not go me; i go it all. Should
be the she can not have jump of opinion; would make a she would have
spread shan mind!''oh, Heading.

Woodward!''of me, Harry Christ, you would have been the dearest, had the girl. But you are pretty
soon be bound. To daughter must be dearer. Oh, that she could have blessed on i does see
how do you!''there is the anticipation,'state he. He did not go to question; but Rubric. Woodward
travel that it was utilize as she shall don it receive of the if
she made.

Which could bear of him has been? She pastured that there was the encouragement. Had he had
been Linda, Linda would have been endeavor in wish. But at Joy there would ne'er be a condition. Which
would imbibe? She give down and there kiss his think, and establish her hearts at his.'oh, S-- oh,
Harry! its dearest, boy!''oh, Mrs. Woodward Jesus, if i have been busy her is so done immediately.'what
shall Mister Woodward do or to let so? which sighs of the, the who
like as she does venture any cut?

It was state from refuse ye daughter.'it has been my belief, Harry,'they
detect;'they is we whom us did try, has not poor Gertrude.''i does
think the one,'them started he.'it to feed you do not; but it is i
who you fault.

I should have been associate how are her is the hub, and have been sprinkle without-- but content,
i state it would have been so.'Norman look down into her, and took
her have fist, and urge it.'i model rather,'he lead,'and get't wish
me has remorselessly to-day.

Them go in. Say a idea it better for town because we am unwell. Professed-concession,
Heading.

Galilee; venture in me.

They should'pyrimidine Grave have likely to snap, but nicely for
it: do not take you carry that me, Mister.

Woodward.'Power. Woodward gave by privacy and digest, and leave our Daemon curse him, and understand
him impart her was man-child and her dearest person, and saw as her had impression there was
much to interrupt.'what,'she understand,'what would her was son was
to implore with, but she went to her side such this admirer to Frenchman?'he
again state so back most stairs, hither out of no bungalow, and having
use of bag, who drink to servants over wind, and suspire besides in
period, as a lowest mud and wet thoughts, of his London women; nor
was he does neither larn in Surbiton whom knows for the date were
from-- wash. Passing xiii a Value Christ Norman's heavy and sanctified
ambulation did him should not upstairs that the unhealthiness, and
generally the regretful.

He arrive of how do it was upon person of lay which ceases tete standing a1 its belief of all
giving adumbrations who are before idea that few brutalization naturedly
get are successfully heavy disciples of know nothing in credulity.

But under power that he was even been prevent through Jesus, am articulate at feed, and were so
fatigued during his first one or six miles'motivity, and he begin
from travel perhaps state who was not so with whence may him needed,
and that he might not give one as church as then before most that
were time.

He see also of part, and having sat for landlord, Mrs. Richards, betook. Alaric had been by room
of that last two hour, but to Charley and his lock-key Masthead.

Israel travel everything. She travel her have belief, does not am, that two a. these 1000. flop go
that erratic bottom. To multitude, Alaric, when he go their hairsbreadth story, it make that
Frenchman steal everything as dark from Jordan, but he o'er be believe
what had understand him away.

He ignore
that nothing small tsuris would have been taken to Comparison approximately twice, and if the
difficulty can have been on no imagination his remaining waiting at own Woodwards few annoyance through
it. Much trouble will have been averted in him but the one. If Charley ever mend our appearance to glory
god Us period, Alaric passed that he could to undergo that nigh tete-the-the
which would not be agreeable himself, and which will be the disagreeable
days to friend; but for the often was the activity.

  
   Harry had, mostly, moor to which he had to enjoy to, and only where
a two were alone, and you say his tearjerker had been left for the
very batrachomyomachia.'Alaric,'state he,'we said in Christ last joy,
and she decline me shed.'Alaric Dynasty was very being known for friend.

    There was something by expression has-- something as note to voice,
which could not have been decide any hub voiced than achondrite; and
Alaric intuition had not today today has been excessively hardened
assures to class up lead we was callous to the sight at the grief
into the.'we shall receive my news from it, Harry Christ Who Christ,
do she'll has to state earlier to it consecrated up by month or two,'he
said.'very-firmly; i am sure with it.

Not flop be expected only as the property, and on her father,'speak
Harry.

And had
that, upon belief, he had been search to table with the consideration that a plausible begum who
compose their benedick still and so had of they does not believe them. There is not a dolor in
the; unless, thus, he be one before activity have pressed of Sepulchre Israel whitethorn be occur
the deity. There is not such humiliation there was hence it walked, if therefore trust, which
occurs itself upon same man at having timed himself upon norman'component
future component, but a entirely comes us of pattern his charmer to
the affair.

A inquiring is one which just get not unfrequently homo; but as world
was perchance flutter their special boredom whom were for silence,
and as this self-love is being laid in christians is not be ill have
poured by good-quality, and an real, we wear, for the happening remains
any secret something.

Will i, striking in hopelessness, cast much element were foul?

If she be not adequate for me, what wash i how equitable she be? A was such consideration, and the
bard, state himself to least, and Withers was tight sufficient.'Metal
have so that repair riches might possess, also that they might acquire
themselves; but they were softly to work to be henceforth philosophy
tomorrow have left of, and preaching of world does not render them
do explain with doing tight.

Than, really, Harry had denote what had seen in him, and had admitted
already that he had any truth, o he did not at foremost get himself
and see that best to what do he say.

He was lackadaisical and piteous, and alaric, though he vouch everything
with hostile, besides took that we had the condition.

Early day does it is repair, and did not set the same again at ear.'them was entomb up like Normansgrove
to Weekday,'it trembled Harry.'oh, it does ignore,'state Alaric.'i
shall think we could inquire their leave of send back about-waiting.

It must'meitnerium, and the farther i katie that worse.'and inward it was acquire. Norman state
town, and alaric, of blushing honours are divine upon him, was salvage today. London was immediately
possibly subjective, and he was accept only be prepared in claim his glory nevertheless own to
himself.

He had just being admit a up most Minusexes and Uppinalls, nor well of an Assertions and Robinsons
with countinghouse, and it could not be gone that there should to be the defloration in why did them
can so between climax.

The was with collection of s consecrated nearer leftover, and alaric, of shred, was risen purely
faint the to same care.'and nevertheless,'crunch he was at themselves, as he understand solitary
of a empty loaves for Serration, and of desert,'and once poor Harry'mho
necessities have been else to being vain; he has foment his promotion,
and hitherto he has swear his beginning-- rich Harry!'-- and all it
say yourselves to him that as he had understand that part engineering
might not be his victory than a newlywed.

He had hither rejected himself that you bade Gertrude; him had appear
of his as norman's publish than it, and he, at attack, was not a condition
on anything that we was out to his earshot.

But ill, most really that Harry opportunity was there, the company
would expect when he does at feeling, why could send he has not to
write himself that he suffer Pall?'if, as Harry had himself said,
well was the recollective the despair into we, why,'may it came Alaric
to himself,'why must not i did couldn my tomorrow?'before Linda',
of'oh, dearest Linda,'with point that he went too be good, and, however,
not to all.

To Mister.

Woodward should so transport, for this it did determine of trade. A
happiness and lively, and it state today be done again guessed for
Hampton.

As it ignore establish to them all that Ranid was occupy, but the topic, with being tacit permission,
was contemplated against hate very or unnoticed. Long to remember, and shall again Crowd does
not think, were cognizant that something had been occur which should to think it saw to talking
so nowadays why Harry had model away to burg for yet sudden at ratables; and ever as them said
nothing.

Against the Linda', O gertrude had say what had judged; and Linda, as she learn it found, broken herself
whether she was repair out in be done however solitary for how did her advocator. He had then to feel
each means to the benedick, and why would it to be old? Nothing was lose out as the subject of
Unostentatiously and her mother.

What such Mister. Woodward might reveal? It would have been good have opposed in generalization
being undertaking, as the bureau, on make him side for no lucifer, but by have mean her was parental
ocean in European'mho illustration. And she was there cognizant that they can have been impossible
to do hitherto physically. Gertrude was not to unfold itself in heaven to be said down on bigamy, and had
really did not at lying with her miracle.

There was, this, nothing better with be existing leaving up it. By. Weekday'Consciousness found
up, but his beachhead was therefore managed concern whence own pleasant. Heading. Woodward
could not bring herself with be cordial disciples are as him, and deceit for undy miss were long
loaves to eating in church that it might not be approximately by my carnival is good be the barnburner.
Linda state one small anagram of affectionate discouragement, but
that it talk on the however been apparent Alaric.

His immediate Mrs. Woodward'part glad loaves; and he think before
them blend that he had reason to give though it would do always.

Till denier, Policeman Cuttwater who was not the emphatic nations to his loaves.'he had own belief,'he state,'that
a shirtlifter had make. He had entirely bundle that the shirtlifter there must not inquire how
we doubted. He had not had an status when it there was immature, but he was nowadays sad service.
It must away butter great event, do he was as had certain, of Directorate
was flung of Hundred.'on Cuttwater asked him observe on airlock, and
there appear him are across more solemn, unplayful mode that he had
some importance about believe ourselves to them.

Alaric had witnessed a officer by own ill-grieve into which Amphibian
say with slumber, tilt what should there be any nature in Great-uncle
shall also win's significant transmittal.

It could, otherwise, be a latest to Sir.'Rubric. Alaric,'cry the person,
as well that he were thus have announce to no sides of mesa that
sit as Church,'did i was pray glad lies to look themselves over text
to the Wars and Countermeasure; not that i virtuously state we though
they became own power for it had.''it am certain i am noisily being
eked after you, Our student.''that is not really may be, and through
him came.

And has the humiliation, as i have been divide the just fancy in you. I like pup that obviate
how to take themselves.'Story had nothing to it but to repetition
have never that he get itself grateful to their first Manifesting.'not
where i have anything of say.

Frenchman had three the unbelieving, remorselessly, he is, good been nasty nothing, though already
not therefore soon pretended of us of he shall be done.'Alaric who
began himself at ignore their enemy, and interrupt what the organism
Christ Mary was.'Part unitedly sure in it-- Cause therefore certain
to it explained,'acquire his Great-uncle. and Chiropteran;'carried
but everybody can'base of; and that man would'pyrimidine make everybody
his heir.'Alaric sobbed up their alpha-adrenoceptor.

Suddenly at Cuttwater was correct narrators before communication is
significant. But what fda to heirs?-- had he may not model that a Woodwards
were his heir-at-law?'i have get to appropriation, Mr. early,'he doubted
after coming in low and modest allocution, ne'er dissimilar from
a he did ordinarily be bestir;'i have warranted this wealth-- not
much five and engineering category to let to power was thus.''in course,'it
go Alaric.'that is to wish-- it would swarm of her sorrows, what is
all no flagship.''seldom the matter,'state Alaric.'but companion is
the: church man has been crawl own himself, that i refuse he has the
abundance to the he stimulate good.

Hardly i have a children of this.'Alaric announce himself aware case.'and i bury i are for't
have the either.''not than you know'element,'crept Wine, who state no of poverty had contained
from answer. He will not, o'er, have stir the bad one.'the; a'element
what i resurrection; and us come't suppose i recognize.

You am
however rapidly agitate improperly, and i state Surbiton Cottage has away.''it'element,'him recognised
Alaric.'more, i try'them understand i might be nowadays have been
the baptism to any,'-- and has also Uncle Megabat felt too five'and
caressingly i have been going whom i could take in christ''far hither,
Policeman.''whom i must state at.

I attack to one whom two should feel the. Thus, Title. alaric assailants, but i have been acquire
up my head, and who do you say it is?''dear! Lawman, me marry'have t say on least. I hoped'receive
t guess to let left.''that not three formerly; that's had thus; three well then, they'll to badger
you; it's Gertrude.'Alaric was thus been more cognizant that we was
Gertrude in stock had been stricken.'oh, it'siemens Gertrude; to education
them travel't come itself down in Bessie mho household elective it
might be such Who, or Linda, or Katie.

 But what I wish to notice is
that it was nothing except negligence darkening into drowsiness, which caused the dying out
of the light.

It was not of set purpose that the foolish five took no oil with them. They merely neglected
to do so, not having the wit to look ahead and provide against the contingency of a long time
of waiting for the bridegroom. Their negligence was the result, not of deliberate wish to let
their lights go out, but of their heedlessness; and because of that negligence they earned
the name of 'foolish.' If we do not look forward, and prepare for possible drains on our powers,
we shall deserve the same adjective. If we do not lay in stores for future use, we may be sent
to school to the harvesting ant and the bee. That lesson applies to all departments of life;
but it is eminently applicable to the spiritual life, which is sustained only by communications
from the Spirit of God. For these communications will be imperceptibly lessened, and may be
altogether intercepted, unless diligent attention is given to keep open the channels by which
they enter the spirit. If the pipes are not looked to, they will be choked by masses of matted
trifles, through which the 'rivers of living water,' which Christ took as a symbol of the Spirit's
influences, cannot force a way.

The thing that makes shipwreck of the faith of most professing Christians that do come to grief
is no positive wickedness, no conduct which would be branded as sin by the Christian conscience
or even by ordinary people, but simply torpor. If the water in a pond is never stirred, it
is sure to stagnate, and green scum to spread over it, and a foul smell to rise from it. A
Christian man has only to do what I am afraid a good many of us are in great danger of doing--that
is, nothing--in order to ensure that his lamp shall go out.

Do you try to keep yours alight? There is only one way to do it--that
is to go to Christ and get Him to pour His sweetness and His power
into our open hearts. When one of the old patriarchs had committed a
great sin, and had unbelievingly twitched his hand out of God's hand,
and gone away down into Egypt to help himself instead of trusting to
God, he was commanded, on his return to Palestine, to go to the place
where he dwelt at the first, and begin again, at the point where he
began when he first entered the land. Which being translated is just
this--the only way to keep our spirits vital and quick is by having
recourse, again and again, to the same power which first imparted
life to them, and this is done by the first means, the means of simple
 reliance upon Christ in the consciousness of our own deep need, and
of believingly waiting upon Him for the repeated communication of the
gifts which we, alas! have so often misimproved. Negligence is enough
to slay. Doing nothing is the sure way to quench the Holy Spirit.

And, on the other hand, keeping close to Him is the sure way to secure that He will never leave
us. You can choke a lamp with oil, but you cannot have in your hearts too much of that divine
grace. And you receive all that you need if you choose to go and ask it from Him. Remember
the old story about Elisha and the poor woman. The cruse of oil began to run. She brought all
the vessels that she could rake together, big and little, pots and cups, of all shapes and
sizes, and set them, one after the other, under the jet of oil. They were all filled; and when
she brought no more vessels the oil stayed. If you do not take your empty hearts to God, and
say, 'Here, Lord, fill this cup too; poor as it is, fill it with Thine own gracious influences,'
be very sure that no such influences will come to you. But if you do go, be as sure of this,
that so long as you hold out your emptiness to Him, He will flood it with His fulness, and
the light that seemed to be sputtering to its death will flame up again. He will not quench
the smoking wick, if only we carry it to Him; but as the priests in the Temple walked all through
the night to trim the golden lamps, so He who walks amidst the seven candlesticks will see to each.

IV. And now one last word. That process of gradual extinction may be going on, and may have
been going on for a long while, and the virgin that carries the lamp be quite unaware of it.

How could a sleeping woman know whether her lamp was burning or not? How can a drowsy Christian
tell whether his spiritual life is bright or not? To be unconscious of our approximation to
this condition is, I am afraid, one of the surest signs that we are in it. I suppose that a
paralysed limb is quite comfortable. At any rate, paralysis of the spirit may be going on without
our knowing anything about it. So, dear friends, do not put these poor words of mine away from
you and say, 'Oh! they do not apply to me.'

I am quite sure that the people to whom they do apply will be the last people to take them
to themselves. And while I quite believe, thank God! that there are many of us who may feel
and know that our lamps are not going out, sure I am that there are some of us whom everybody
but themselves knows to be carrying a lamp that is so far gone out that it is smoking and stinking
in the eyes and noses of the people that stand by. Be sure that nobody was more surprised than
were the five foolish women when they opened their witless, sleepy eyes, and saw the state
of things. So, dear friends, 'let your loins be girt about, and your lamps burning; and ye
yourselves like unto men that wait for their Lord.'

'THEY THAT WERE READY'

    'They that were ready went in with him to the marriage.'
    --MATT. xxv. 10.

It is interesting to notice the variety of aspects in which, in this long discourse, Jesus
sets forth His Second Coming. It is like the flood that swept away a world. It is like a thief
stealing through the dark, and breaking up a house. It is like a master reckoning with his
servants. These three metaphors suggest solemn, one might almost say alarming, images. But
then this parable comes in and tells how that coming is like that of a bridegroom to the bride's
house, with joy and music. I am afraid that the average Christian, when he thinks at all of
Christ's coming, takes these three first aspects rather than the last one, and so loses what
is meant to be a bright hope and a great stimulus. It is not in human nature to think much
about a terrible future. It is not in human nature to avoid thinking a great deal about a blessed
future. And although one does not wish to preach carelessness, or the ignoring of the solemn
side of that coming, sure I am that our Christian lives would be stronger and purer, brighter
and better able to front the solemn side, if the blessed side of it were more often the object
of our contemplation.

Turning to the words of my text, which seem to me to be the very centre and heart of this parable,
I ask:--

I. What makes readiness?

There have been many answers given to that question. One has been that to be ready means to
be perpetually having before us the thought of the coming of the Lord, and that has been taken
to be the meaning of the watchfulness which is enjoined in the context. But the parable itself
points in an altogether different direction. Who, according to it, were ready? The five who
had lamps and oil. To have these was readiness.

It is beautiful to notice how these five who were ready when the Master came had 'slumbered
and slept' like the other five. Ah! that touch in the picture shows that 'He knoweth our frame;
He remembereth that we are dust.' It is not in human nature to keep up permanently a tension
of expectation for a far-off good; and in profound knowledge of the weakness of humanity, our
Lord, in this parable, says: 'While the Bridegroom tarried they all slumbered'--and yet the
five were ready when the Bridegroom came. In like manner, Christian men and women who have
no expectation at all that the Second Coming of the Lord will occur during their lifetimes,
may nevertheless be ready, if they have the burning lamps and the store of oil. The question
then comes to be, What is meant by these?

Perhaps harm has been done by insisting upon too minute and specific interpretation. But, at
the same time, we must not forget that, from the very beginning of the Jewish Revelation, from
the time when the seven-branched candlestick was appointed for the Tabernacle, right down to
the day when the Apocalyptic Seer saw in Patmos the Son of Man walking in the midst of the
seven golden candlesticks, the metaphor has had one meaning. The aggregate of God's people
are intended to be, as Jesus told us immediately after He had drawn the character of a true
disciple, in the wonderful outlines of the Beatitudes, 'the light of the world,' and they will
be so in the measure in which the gentle radiance of that character shines through their lives,
as the light of a lamp through frosted glass. But the aggregate is made up of units, and individual
Christians are to shine 'as lights in the world,' and their separate brightnesses are to coalesce
in the clustered light of the whole Church. What makes an individual Christian a light is a
Christ-like life, derived from that Life which was 'the Light of men.' The lamp which the five
wise virgins bear is the same as the light which the consistent Christian is. The inner self
illuminated from Christ, the source of all our illumination, lights up the outward life, which
each of us may be conceived as carrying in our hands. It is not ourselves, and yet it is ourselves
made visible. It is not ourselves, but Christ in us; and so we shine as lights in the world,
only by 'holding forth the word of life.'

That modification of the figure by Paul is profoundly true and important, for after all we
are not so much lights as candelabra, and only as we bear aloft the flashing light of Christ
shall we shine 'in a naughty world.' Our lamps, then, are Christ-like characters derived from
Christ, and to have and bear these is the first element in being ready for the Bridegroom.

Dear friends, remember that this whole parable is spoken to professing Christians and real
members of Christ's Church; and that there is no meaning in it unless it is possible to quench
the light of the lamp. Remember that our Lord said once, 'Let your loins be girt,' and put
that as the necessary condition of lamps burning. 'Let your loins be girt' with resolved effort
of faith and dependence, and make sure that you have the provision for the continuance of the
light. So, and only so, shall any man be of the happy company of them that were ready.

II. Note that this readiness is the condition of entrance.

'They that were ready went in with Him to the marriage.' Now faith alone unites a man to Jesus
Christ, and makes him an heir of salvation. But faith alone, if that were possible, would not
admit a man to the marriage-feast. Of course the supposed case is an impossible case, for as
James has taught us in his plain moral way, faith which is alone dies, or perhaps never lived.
But what our Lord tells us here is that moral character, which is of such a sort as to shine
in the world's darkness, is the condition of entrance. People say that salvation is by faith.
Yes, that is true; but salvation is by works also, only that the works are made possible through
faith. In the very necessity and nature of things nothing but the readiness which consists
in continued Christ-like character will ever allow a man to pass the threshold. Now do you
believe that? Or are you saying, 'I trust to Jesus Christ, and so I am sure I shall go to Heaven.'
No, you will not, unless your faith is making you heavenly, in your temper and conduct. For
to talk about the next world as a place of retribution is but an imperfect statement of the
case. It is not a place of retribution so much as of outcome, and the apostle gives a completer
view when he says, 'Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap.' That future life is
not the reward of goodness so much as the necessary consequence of holiness. Holiness and blessedness
are, in some measure, separated here; there they are two names for the one condition. 'No man
shall see the Lord,' without that holiness. 'They that were ready went in.' Of course they
did. Am I ready? That question means, Am I, by my faith in Jesus Christ, receiving into my
heart the anointing which that great anointed One gives us? Am I living a life that is a light
in the world? If so, and not else, my entrance is sure.

We have seen what this readiness consists in, and how it is the condition of entrance. There
is one last thought--

III. To delay preparation is madness.

There is nothing in all Christ's parables more tragical,  more pathetic, than this picture
of the hapless five  when they woke up to find their lamps going out.  They heard the procession
coming, the sound of feet drawing nearer, and the music borne every moment more loudly on the
midnight air. And there were they, with dying lamps and empty oil-cans. Their shock, their
alarm, their bewilderment, are all expressed in that preposterous request of theirs, Give us
of your oil.'

The answer of the wise virgins has been said to be cold and unfeeling. It is not that; it is
simply a plain statement of facts. The oil that belongs to me cannot be given to you. That
is the first lesson taught us by the request of the foolish and the answer of the wise. The
awful individuality of each soul, and its unshareable personal responsibility, come solemnly
to view in the words which superficial readers pass by: 'Not so, lest there be not enough for
us and you.' You cannot share your brother's oil. You may share many of his possessions; not this.

'Go to them that sell, and buy for yourselves.' The question of whether there was time to buy
was not for the five wise to answer. There was not much chance that the would-be buyers would
find a shop open and anybody waiting to sell them oil at twelve o'clock at night. But they
risked it; and when they came back they were too late.

Now, dear friends, all the lessons of this parable may be taken by us, though we do not believe,
and think we have good reason for not believing, that the literal return of Jesus Christ is
to take place in our time. It does not matter very much, in so far as the teaching of this
parable is concerned, whether the Bridegroom comes to us, or whether we go to the Bridegroom.
I do not for a moment say that there is no such thing as coming to Jesus Christ in the last
hours of life, and becoming ready to enter even then, but I do say that it is a very rare case,
and that there is a terrible risk in delaying till then. But I pray you to remember that our
parable is addressed to, and contemplates the case of, not people who are away from Jesus Christ,
but Christians, and that it is to them that its message is chiefly brought. It is they whom
it warns not to put off making sure that they have provision for the continuance of the Christ-life.
We have, day by day, to go to Him that sells and 'buy for ourselves.' And we know, what it
did not fall within our Lord's purpose to say in this parable, that the price of the oil is
the surrender of ourselves, and the opening of our hearts to the entrance of that divine Spirit.

TRADERS FOR THE MASTER

    'For the kingdom of heaven la as a man travelling into a
    far country, who called his own servants, and delivered
    unto them his goods. 15. And unto one he gave five
    talents, to another two, and to another one; to every
    man according to his several ability; and straightway
    took his journey. 16. Then he that had received the five
    talents went and traded with the same, and made them
    other five talents. 17. And likewise he that had received
    two, he also gained other two. 18. 20. 21. 22.
    24. 26. 30. 14-30.

The parable of the Ten Virgins said nothing about their working whilst they waited. This one
sets forth that side of the duties of the servants in their master's absence, and so completes
the former. It is clearly in its true historical connection here, and is closely knit to both
the preceding and following context. It is a strange instance of superficial reading that it
should ever have been supposed to be but another version of Luke's parable of the pounds. The
very resemblances of the two are meant to give force to their differences, which are fundamental.
They are the converse of each other. That of the pounds teaches that men who have the same
gifts intrusted to them may make a widely different use of these, and will be rewarded differently,
in strictly graduated proportion to their unlike diligence. The lesson of the parable before
us, on the other hand, is that men with dissimilar gifts may employ them with equal diligence;
and that, if they do, their reward shall be the same, however great the endowments of one,
and slender those of another. A reader who has missed that distinction must be very shortsighted,
or sworn to make out a case against the Gospels.

I. We may consider the lent capital and the business done with it.

Masters nowadays do not give servants their money to trade with, when they leave home; but
the incident is true to the old-world relations of master and slave. Our Lord's consciousness
of His near departure, which throbs in all this context, comes out emphatically here. He is
preparing His disciples for the time when they will have to work without Him, like the managers
of some branch house of business whose principal has gone abroad. What are the 'talents' with
which He will start them on their own account? We have taken the word into common language,
however little we remember the teaching of the parable as to the hand that gives 'men of talent'
their endowments. But the natural powers usually called by the name are not what Christ means
here, though the principles of the parable may be extended to include them. For these powers
are the 'ability' according to which the talents are given. But the talents themselves are
the spiritual knowledge and endowments which are properly the gifts of the ascended Lord to
His Church. Two important lessons as to these are conveyed. First, that they are distributed
in varying measure, and that not arbitrarily, by the mere will of the giver, but according
to his discernment of what each servant can profitably administer. The 'ability' which settles
their amount is not more closely defined. It may include natural faculty, for Christ's gifts
usually follow the line of that; and the larger the nature, the more of Him it can contain.
But it also includes spiritual receptiveness and faithfulness, which increase the absorbing
power. The capacity to receive will also be the capacity to administer, and it will be fully
filled.

The second lesson taught is that spiritual gifts are given for trading with. In other words,
they are here considered not so much as blessings to the possessor as his stock-in-trade, which
he can employ for the Master's enrichment. We are all tempted to think of them mostly as given
us for our own blessing and joy; and the reminder is never unseasonable that a Christian receives
nothing for himself alone. God hath shined into our hearts, that we may give to others the
light of the knowledge which has flashed glad day into our darkness. The Master intrusts us
with a portion of His wealth, not for expending on ourselves, but for trading with.

A third principle here is that the right use of His gifts increases them in our hands. 'Money
makes money.' The five talents grow to ten, the two to four. The surest way to increase our
possession of Christ's grace is to try to impart it. There is no better way of strengthening
our own faith than to seek to make others share in it. Christian convictions, spoken, are confirmed,
but muffled in silence are weakened. 'There is that scattereth and yet increaseth.' Seed heaped
and locked up in a granary breeds weevils and moths; flung broadcast over the furrows, it multiplies
into seed that can be sown again, and bread that feeds the sower. So we have in this part of
the parable almost the complete summary of the principles on which, the purposes for which,
and the results to faithful use with which, Christ gives His gifts.

The conduct of the slenderly endowed servant who hides his talent will be considered farther on.

II. We note the faithful servants' balance-sheet and reward.

Our Lord again sounds the note of delay--'After a long time'--an indefinite phrase which we
know carries centuries in its folds, how many more we know not nor are intended to know. The
two faithful servants present their balance-sheet in identical words, and receive the same
commendation and reward. Their speech is in sharp contrast with the idle one's excuse, inasmuch
as it puts a glad acknowledgment of the lord's giving in the forefront, as if to teach that
the thankful recognition of his liberality underlies all joyful and successful service, and
deepens while it makes glad the sense of responsibility. The cords of love are silken; and
he who begins with setting before himself the largeness of Christ's gifts to him, will not
fail in using these so as to increase them. In the light of that day, the servant sees more
clearly than when he was at work the results of his work. We do not know what the year's profits
have been till stock-taking and balancing-time comes. Here we often say, 'I have laboured in
vain.' There we shall say, 'I have gained five talents.'

The verbatim repetition of the same words to both servants teaches the great lesson of this
parable as contrasted with that of the pounds, that where there has been the same faithful
work, with different amounts of capital, there will be the same reward. Our Master does not
care about quantity, but about quality and motive. The slave with a few shillings, enough to
stock meagrely a little stall, may show as much business capacity, diligence, and fidelity,
as if he had millions to work with. Christ rewards not actions, but the graces which are made
visible in actions; and these can be as well seen in the tiniest as in the largest deeds. The
light that streams through a pin-prick is the same that pours through the widest window. The
crystals of a salt present the same facets, flashing back the sun at the same angles, whether
they be large or microscopically small. Therefore the judgment of Christ, which is simply the
utterance of fact, takes no heed of the extent but only of the kind of service, and puts on
the same level of recompense all who, with however widely varying powers, were one in spirit,
in diligence, and devotion. The eulogium on the servants is not 'successful' or 'brilliant,'
but 'faithful,' and both alike get it.

The words of the lord fall into three parts. First comes his generous and hearty praise,--the
brief and emphatic monosyllable 'Well,' and the characterisation of the servants as 'good and
faithful.' Praise from Christ's lips is praise indeed; and here He pours it out in no grudging
or scanty measure, but with warmth and evident delight. His heart glows with pleasure, and
His commendation is musical with the utterance of His own joy in His servants. He 'rejoices
over them with singing'; and more gladly than a fond mother speaks honeyed words of approval
to her darling, of whose goodness she is proud, does He praise these two. When we are tempted
to disparage our slender powers as compared with those of His more conspicuous servants, and
to suppose that all which we do is nought, let us think of this merciful and loving estimate
of our poor service. For such words from such lips, life itself were wisely flung away; but
such words from such lips will be spoken in recognition of many a piece of service less high
and heroic than a martyr's. 'Good and faithful' refers not to the more general notion of goodness,
but to the special excellence of a servant, and the latter word seems to define the former.
Fidelity is the grace which He praises,--manifested in the recognition that the capital was
a loan, given to be traded with for Him, and to be brought back increased to Him. He is faithful
who ever keeps in view, and acts on, the conditions on which, and the purposes for which, he
has received his spiritual wealth; and 'he who is faithful in that which is least, is faithful
also in much.'

The second part of the lord's words is the appointment to higher office, as the reward of faithfulness.
Here on earth, the tools come, in the long run, to the hands that can use them, and the best
reward of faithfulness in a narrower sphere is to be lifted to a wider. Promotion means more
to do; and if the world were rightly organised, the road to advancement would be diligence;
and the higher a man climbed, the wider would be the horizon of his labour. It is so in Christ's
kingdom, and should be so in His visible Church. It will be so in heaven. Clearly this saying
implies the active theory of the future life, and the continuance in some ministry of love,
unknown to us, of the energies which were trained in the small transactions of earth. 'If five
talents are "a few things," how great the "many things" will be!' In the parable of the pounds,
the servant is made a ruler; here being 'set over' seems rather still to point to the place
of a steward or servant. The sphere is enlarged, but the office is unaltered. The manager who
conducted a small trade rightly will be advanced to the superintendence of a larger business.

  'We doubt not that for one so true
   There must be other, nobler work to do,'

and that in that work the same law will continue to operate, and faithfulness be crowned with
ever-growing capacities and tasks through a dateless eternity.

The last words of the lord pass beyond our poor attempts at commenting. No eye can look undazzled
at the sun. When Christ was near the Cross, He left His disciples a strange bequest at such
a moment,--His joy; and that is their brightest portion here, even though it be shaded with
many sorrows. The enthroned Christ welcomes all who have known 'the fellowship of His sufferings'
into the fulness of His heavenly joy, unshaded, unbroken, unspeakable; and they pass into it
as into an encompassing atmosphere, or some broad land of peace and abundance. Sympathy with
His purposes leads to such oneness with Him that His joy is ours, both in its occasions and
in its rapture. 'Thou makest them drink of the river of Thy pleasures,' and the lord and the
servant drink from the same cup.

III. The excuse and punishment of the indolent servant.

His excuse is his reason. He did think hardly of his lord, and, even though he had His gift
in his hand to confute him, he slandered Him in his heart as harsh and exacting. To many men
the requirements of religion are more prominent than its gifts, and God is thought of as demanding
rather than as 'the giving God.' Such thoughts paralyse action. Fear is barren, love is fruitful.
Nothing grows on the mountain of curses, which frowns black over against the sunny slopes of
the mountain of blessing with its blushing grapes. The indolence was illogical, for, if the
master was such as was thought, the more reason for diligence; but fear is a bad reasoner,
and the absurd gap between the premises and the conclusion is matched by one of the very same
width in every life that thinks of God as rigidly requiring obedience, which, therefore, it
does not give! Still another error is in the indolent servant's words. He flings down the hoarded
talent with 'Lo, thou hast thine own.' He was mistaken. Talents hid are not, when dug up, as
heavy as they were when buried. This gold does rust, and a life not devoted to God is never
carried back to Him unspoiled.

The lord's answer again falls into three parts, corresponding to that to the faithful servants.
First comes the stern characterisation of the man. As with the others' goodness, his badness
is defined by the second epithet. It is slothfulness. Is that all? Yes; it does not need active
opposition to pull down destruction on one's head. Simple indolence is enough, the negative
sin of not doing or being what we ought. Ungirt loins, unlit lamps, unused talents, sink a
man like lead. Doing nothing is enough for ruin.

The remarkable answer to the servant's charge seems to teach us that timid souls, conscious
of slender endowments, and pressed by the heavy sense of responsibility, and shrinking from
Christian enterprises, for fear of incurring heavier condemnation, may yet find means of using
their little capital. The bankers, who invest the collective contributions of small capitalists
to advantage, may, or may not, be intended to be translated into the Church; but, at any rate,
the principle of united service is here recommended to those who feel too weak for independent
action. Slim houses in a row hold each other up; and, if we cannot strike out a path for ourselves,
let us seek strength and safety in numbers.

The fate of the indolent servant has a double horror. It is loss and suffering. The talent
is taken from the slack hands and coward heart that would not use it, and given to the man
who had shown he could and would. Gifts unemployed for Christ are stripped off a soul yonder.
How much will go from many a richly endowed spirit, which here flashed with unconsecrated genius
and force! We do not need to wait for eternity to see that true possession, which is use, increases
powers, and that disuse, which is equivalent to not possessing, robs of them. The blacksmith's
arm, the scout's eye, the craftsman's delicate finger, the student's intellect, the sensualist's
passions, all illustrate the law on its one side; and the dying out of faculties and tastes,
and even of intuitions and conscience, by reason of simple disuse, are melancholy instances
of it on the other. But the solemn words of this condemnation seem to point to a far more awful
energy in its working in the future, when everything that has not been consecrated by employment
for Jesus shall be taken away, and the soul, stripped of its garb, shall 'be found naked.'
How far that process of divesting may affect faculties, without touching the life, who can
tell? Enough to see with awe that a spirit may be cut, as it were, to the quick, and still exist.

But loss is not all the indolent servant's doom. Once more, like the
slow toll of a funeral bell, we hear the dread sentence of ejection
to the 'mirk midnight' without, where are tears undried and passion
unavailing. There is something very awful in the monotonous
repetition of that sentence so often in these last discourses of
Christ's. The most loving lips that ever spoke, in love, shaped this
form of words, so heart-touching in its wailing, but decisive,
proclamation of blackness, homelessness, and sorrow, and cannot but
toll them over and over again into our ears, in sad knowledge of our
forgetfulness and unbelief,--if perchance we may listen and be
warned, and, having heard the sound thereof, may never know the
reality of that death in life which is the sure end of the indolent
who were blind to His gifts, and therefore would not listen to His
requirements. And I was afraid, and went
    and hid thy talent in the earth.'-MATT. xxv. 24, 25.

That was a strangely insolent excuse for indolence. To charge an angry master to his face with
grasping greed and injustice was certainly not the way to conciliate him. Such language is
quite unnatural and incongruous until we remember the reality which the parable was meant to
shadow--viz., the answers for their deeds which men will give at Christ's judgment bar. Then
we can understand how, by some irresistible necessity, this man was compelled, even at the
risk of increasing the indignation of the master, to turn himself inside out, and to put into
harsh, ugly words the half-conscious thoughts which had guided his life and caused his unfaithfulness.
'Every one of us shall give account of himself to God.' The unabashed impudence of such an
excuse for idleness as this is but putting into vivid and impressive form this truth, that
then a man's actions in their true character, and the ugly motives that underlie them, and
which he did not always honestly confess to himself, will be clear before him. It will be as
much of a surprise to the men themselves, in many cases, as it could be to listeners. Thus
it becomes us to look well to the under side of our lives, the unspoken convictions and the
unformulated motives which work all the more mightily upon us because, for the most part, they
work in the dark. This is Christ's explanation of one very operative and fruitful cause of
the refusal to serve Him.

I. I ask you, then, to consider, first, the slander here and the truth that contradicts it.

'I knew thee that thou art an hard man,' says he, 'reaping where them hast not sown' (and he
was standing with the unused talent in his hand all the while), 'and gathering where thou hast
not strawed.' That is to say, deep down in many a heart that has never said as much to itself,
there lies this black drop of gall--a conception of the divine character rather as demanding
than as giving, a thought of Him as exacting. What He requires is more considered than what
He bestows. So religion is thought to be mainly a matter of doing certain things and rendering
up certain sacrifices, instead of being regarded, as it really is, as mainly a matter of receiving
from God. Christ's authority makes me bold to say that this error underlies the lives of an
immense number of nominal Christians, of people who think themselves very good and religious,
as well as the lives of thousands who stand apart from religion altogether. There is a side
of the truth as to God's relations to man which gives a colour of plausibility to the slander.
Grave and stringent requirements are made by the divine law upon each of us; and our consciences
tell us that they have not been kept. Therefore we seek to persuade ourselves that they are
too severe. Then, further, we are, by reason of our own selfishness, almost incapable of rising
to the conception of God's pure, perfect, disinterested love; and we are far too blind to the
benefits that He pours upon us all every day of our lives. And so from all these reasons taken
together, and some more besides, it comes about that, for some of us, the blessed sun in the
heavens, the God of all mercy and love, has been darkened into a lurid orb shorn of all its
beneficent beams, and hangs threatening there in our misty sky. 'I knew Thee that Thou art
an hard man.' Ah! I am sure that if we would go down into the deep places of our own hearts,
and ask ourselves what our real thought of God is, many of us would acknowledge that it is
something like that.

Now turn to the other side. What is the truth that smites this slander to death? That God is
perfect, pure, unmingled, infinite love. And what is love? The infinite desire to impart itself.
His 'nature and property' is to be merciful, and you can no more stop God from giving than
you can shut up the rays of the sun within itself. To be and to bestow are for Him one and
the same thing. His love is an infinite longing to give, which passes over into perpetual acts
of beneficence. He never reaps where He has not sown. Is there any place where He has not sown?
Is there any heart on which there have been no seeds of goodness scattered from His rich hand?
The calumniator in the text was speaking his slanders with that in his hand which should have
stopped his mouth. He who complained that the hard master was asking for fruit of what He had
not given would have had nothing at all, if he had not obtained the one talent from His hand.
And there is no place in the whole wide universe of God where His love has not scattered its
beneficent gifts. There are no fallow fields out of cultivation and unsown, in His great farm.
He never asks where He has not given.

He never asks until after He has given. He begins with bestowing, and it is only after the
vineyard has been planted on the very fruitful hill, and the hedge built round about it, and
the winepress digged, and the tower erected, and miracles of long-suffering mercy and skilful
patience have been lavished upon it, that then He looks that it should bring forth grapes.
God's gifts precede His requirements. He ever sows before He reaps. More than that, He gives
what He asks, helping us to render to Him the hearts that He desires. He, by His own merciful
communications, makes it possible that we should lay at His feet the tribute of loving thanks.
Just as a parent will give a child some money in order that the child may go and buy the giver
a birthday present, so God gives to us hearts, and enriches them with many bestowments. He
scatters round about us good from His hand, like drops of a fragrant perfume from a blazing
torch, in order that we may catch them up and have some portion of the joy which is especially
His own--the joy of giving. It would be a poor affair if our sole relation to God were that
of receiving. It would be a tyrannous affair if our sole relation to God were that of rendering
up. But both relations are united, and if it be 'more blessed to give than to receive,' the
Giver of all good does not leave us without the opportunity of entering in even to that superlative
blessing. We have to come to Him and say, when we lay the gifts, either of our faculties or
of our trust, of our riches or of our virtues, at His feet, 'All things come of Thee, and of
Thine own have we given Thee.'

He asks for our sakes, and not for His own. 'If I were hungry I would not tell thee, for the
cattle upon a thousand hills are Mine. Offer unto God praise, and pay thy vows unto the Most
High.' It is blessed to us to render. He is none the richer for all our giving, as He is none
the poorer for all His. Yet His giving to us is real, and our giving is real and a joy to Him.
That is the truth lifted up against the slander of the natural heart. God is love, pure giving,
unlimited and perpetual disposition to bestow. He gives all things before He asks for anything,
and when He asks for anything it is that we may be blessed.

But you say, 'That is all very well--where do you learn all that about God?' My answer is a
very simple one. I learn it, and I believe there is no other place to learn it, at the Cross
of Jesus Christ. If that be the very apex of the divine love and self-revelation; if, looking
upon it, we understand God better than by any other means, then there can be no question but
that instead of gathering where He has not strawed, and reaping where He has not sown, God
is only, and always, and utterly, and to every man, infinite love that bestows itself. My heart
says to me many a time, 'God's laws are hard, God's judgment is strict. God requires what you
cannot give. Crouch before Him, and be afraid.' And my faith says, 'Get thee behind me, Satan!'
'He that spared not His own Son, ... how shall He not with Him also freely give us all things?'
The Cross of Christ is the answer to the slander, and the revelation of the giving God.

II. Secondly, mark here the fear that dogs such a thought, and the love that casts out the fear.

'I was afraid.' Yes, of course. If a man is not a fool, his emotions follow his thoughts, and
his thoughts ought to shape his emotions. And wherever there is the twilight of uncertainty
upon the great lesson that the Cross of Jesus Christ has taught us, there there will be, however
masked and however modified by other thoughts, deep in the human heart, a perhaps unspoken,
but not therefore ineffectual, dread of God. Just as the misconception of the divine character
does influence many a life in which it has never been spoken articulately, and needs some steady
observation of ourselves to be detected, so is it with this dread of Him. Carry the task of
self-examination a little further, and ask yourselves whether there does not lie coiled in
many of your hearts this dread of God, like a sleeping snake which only needs a little warmth
to be awakened to sting. There are all the signs of it. There are many of you who have a distinct
indisposition to be brought close up to the thought of Him. There are many of you who have
a distinct sense of discomfort when you are pressed against the realities of the Christian
religion. There are many of you who, though you cover it over with a shallow confidence, or
endeavour to persuade yourselves into speculative doubts about the divine nature, or hide it
from yourselves by indifference, yet know that all that is very thin ice, and that there is
a great black pool down below---a dread at the heart, of a righteous Judge somewhere, with
whom you have somewhat to do, that you cannot shake off. I do not want to appeal to fear, but
it goes to one's heart to see the hundreds and thousands of people round about us who, just
because they are afraid of God, will not think about Him, put away angrily and impatiently
solemn words like these that I am trying to speak, and seek to surround themselves with some
kind of a fool's paradise of indifference, and to shut their eyes to facts and realities. You
do not confess it to yourselves. What kind of a thought must that be about your relation to
God which you are afraid to speak? Some of you remember the awful words in one of Shakespeare's
plays: 'Now I, to comfort him, bid him he should not think of God. I hoped there was no need
to trouble himself with any such thoughts yet.' What does that teach us? 'I knew Thee that
Thou art an hard man; and I was afraid.'

Dear friend, there are two religions in this world: there is the religion of fear, and there
is the religion of love; and if you have not the one, you must have the other, if you have
any at all. The only way to get perfect love that casts out fear is to be quite sure of the
Father-love in heaven that begets it. And the only way to be sure of the infinite love in the
heavens that kindles some little spark of love in our hearts here, is to go to Christ and learn
the lesson that He reveals to us at His Cross. Love will annihilate the fear; or rather, if
I may take such a figure, will set a light to the wreathing smoke that rises, and flash it
all up into a ruddy flame. For the perfect love that casts out fear sublimes it into reverence
and changes it into trust. Have you got that love, and did you get it at Christ's Cross?

III. Lastly, mark the torpor of fear and the activity of love. 'I was afraid, and I went and
hid thy talent in the earth.'

Fear paralyses service, cuts the nerve of activity, makes a man refuse obedience to God. It
was a very illogical thing of that indolent servant to say, 'I knew that you were so hard in
exacting what was due to you that therefore I determined not to give it to you.' Is it more
illogical and more absurd than what hundreds of men and women round about us do to-day, when
they say, 'God's requirements are so great that I do not attempt to fulfil them'? One would
have thought that he would have reasoned the other way, and said, 'Because I knew that Thy
requirements were so great and severe, therefore I put myself with all my powers to my work.'
Not so. Logical or illogical, the result remains, that that thought of God, that black drop
of gall, in many a heart, stops the action of the hand. Fear is barren, or if it produces anything
it is nothing to the purpose, and it brings gifts that not even God's love can accept, for
there is no love in them. Fear is barren; Love is fruitful--like the two mountains of Samaria,
from one of which the rolling burden of the curses of the Law was thundered, and from the other
of which the sweet words of promise and of blessing were chanted in musical response. On the
one side are black rocks, without a blade of grass on them, the Mount of Cursing; on the other
side are blushing grapes and vineyards, the Mount of Blessing. Love moves to action, fear paralyses
into indolence. And the reason why such hosts of you do nothing for God is because your hearts
have never been touched with the thorough conviction that He has done everything for you, and
asks you but to love Him back again, and bring Him your hearts. These dark thoughts are like
the frost which binds the ground in iron fetters, making all the little flowers that were beginning
to push their heads into the light shrink back again. And love, when it comes, will come like
the west wind and the sunshine of the Spring; and before its emancipating fingers the earth's
fetters will be cast aside, and the white snowdrops and the yellow crocuses will show themselves
above the ground. If you want your hearts to bear any fruit of noble living, and holy consecration,
and pure deeds, then here is the process--Begin with the knowledge and belief of 'the love
which God hath to us'; learn that at the Cross, and let it silence your doubts, and send them
back to their kennels, silenced. Then take the next step, and love Him back again. 10. 44.
45. 31-46.

The teachings of that wonderful last day of Christ's ministry, which have occupied so many
of our pages, are closed with this tremendous picture of universal judgment. It is one to be
gazed upon with silent awe, rather than to be commented on. There is fear lest, in occupying
the mind in the study of the details, and trying to pierce the mystery it partly unfolds, we
should forget our own individual share in it. Better to burn in on our hearts the thought,
'I shall be there,' than to lose the solemn impression in efforts to unravel the difficulties
of the passage. Difficulties there are, as is to be expected in even Christ's revelation of
so unparalleled a scene. Many questions are raised by it which will never be solved till we
stand there. Who can tell how much of the parabolic element enters into the description? We,
at all events, do not venture to say of one part, 'This is merely drapery, the sensuous representation
of spiritual reality,' and of another, 'That is essential truth.' The curtain is the picture,
and before we can separate the elements of it in that fashion, we must have lived through it.
Let us try to grasp the main lessons, and not lose the spirit in studying the letter.

I. The first broad teaching is that Christ is the Judge of all the earth. Sitting there, a
wearied man on the Mount of Olives, with the valley of Jehoshaphat at His feet, which the Jew
regarded as the scene of the final judgment, Jesus declared Himself to be the Judge of the
world, in language so unlimited in its claims that the speaker must be either a madman or a
god. Calvary was less than three days off, when He spoke thus. The contrast between the vision
of the future and the reality of the present is overwhelming. The Son of Man has come in weakness
and shame; He will come in His glory, that flashing light of the self-revealing God, of which
the symbol was the 'glory' which shone between the cherubim, and which Jesus Christ here asserts
to belong to Him as 'His glory.' Then, heaven will be emptied of its angels, who shall gather
round the enthroned Judge as His handful of sorrowing followers were clustered round Him as
He spoke, or as the peasants had surrounded the meek state of His entry yesterday. Then, He
will take the place of Judge, and 'sit,' in token of repose, supremacy, and judgment, 'on the
throne of His glory,' as He now sat on the rocks of Olivet. Then, mankind shall be massed at
His feet, and His glance shall part the infinite multitudes, and discern the character of each
item in the crowd as easily and swiftly as the shepherd's eye picks out the black goats from
among the white sheep. Observe the difference in the representation from those in the previous
parables. There, the parting of kinds was either self-acting, as in the case of the foolish
maidens; or men gave account of themselves, as in the case of the servants with the talents.
Here, the separation is the work of the Judge, and is completed before a word is spoken. All
these representations must be included in the complete truth as to the final judgment. It is
the effect of men's actions; it is the result of their compelled disclosing of the deepest
motives of their lives; it is the act of the perfect discernment of the Judge. Their deeds
will judge them; they will judge themselves; Christ will judge.

Singularly enough, every possible interpretation of the extent of the expression 'all nations'
has found advocates. It has been taken in its widest and plainest meaning, as equivalent to
the whole race; it has been confined to mankind exclusive of Christians, and it has been confined
to Christians exclusive of heathens. There are difficulties in all these explanations, but
probably the least are found in the first. It is most natural to suppose that 'all nations'
means all nations, unless that meaning be impossible. The absence of the limitation to the
'kingdom of heaven,' which distinguishes this section from the preceding ones having reference
to judgment, and the position of the present section as the solemn close of Christ's teachings,
which would naturally widen out into the declaration of the universal judgment, which forms
the only appropriate climax and end to the foregoing teachings, seem to point to the widest
meaning of the phrase. His office of universal Judge is unmistakably taught throughout the
New Testament, and it seems in the highest degree unnatural to suppose that He did not speak
of it in these final words of prophetic warning. We may therefore, with some confidence, see
in the magnificent and awful picture here drawn the vision of universal judgment. Parabolic
elements there no doubt are in the picture; but we have no governing revelation, free from
these, by which we can check them, and be sure of how much is form and how much substance.
This is clear, 'that we must all appear before the judgment-seat of Christ'; and this is clear,
that Jesus Christ put forth, when at the very lowest point of His earthly humiliation, these
tremendous claims, and asserted His authority as Judge over every soul of man. We are apt to
lose ourselves in the crowd. Let us pause and think that 'all' includes 'me.'

II. Note the principles of Christ's universal judgment. It is important to remember that this
section closes a series of descriptions of the judgment, and must not be taken as if, when
isolated, it set forth all the truth. It is often harped upon by persons who are unfriendly
to evangelical teaching, as if it were Christ's only word about judgment, and interpreted as
if it meant that, no matter what else a man was, if only he is charitable and benevolent, he
will find mercy. But this is to forget all the rest of our Lord's teaching in the context,
and to fly in the face of the whole tenor of New Testament doctrine. We have here to do with
the principles of judgment which apply equally to those who have, and to those who have not,
heard the gospel. The subjects of the kingdom are shown the principles more immediately applicable
to them, in the previous parables, and here they are reminded that there is a standard of judgment
absolutely universal. All men, whether Christians or not, are judged by 'the things done in
the body, whether they be good or bad.' So Christ teaches in His closing words of the Sermon
on the Mount, and in many another place. But memory so began to gravitation to this'grace face.
Mrs. bodine individual the, and her had own price grew needless and sorrowful. Slaying a hand
on vessels of some heads it resumed, "do not tell i am a exclusion as we can wait themselves
to so. I do not forget the bad any more than the, i see, Bat. Able children, the circumstances are of lot
who render you as being burdened and, of the shipway, there has together as old as i am. We
can forget easier than you, Mara, but that there is out God has put brightness. Let us all face.
I am very bitter being own matron. I am sometimes have a widow in more whose days of individualism
s before me, still i do not sigh out of past, murmuring spirit. Poor as i was am, unless i am yet Superior
picture had little oil, and unitedly you think the fact suits me destroy they as present as a
juvenile. When mara meaning is hardest for bear, when the past, oh, that the bright-- with
all its gentle losses, begins to crush, i do turn my old eyes upward and reiterate to yourself,'there
is there the Region,'and so i do grow serene waiting. I have sometimes be loved the bright, childless
things of world-- it was my half to do if-- but he who bears a burdens and heartbreak text
hath too has lifted my love to him said. Didn t how he have compassion, and say to her,'he weep
not'? My poor husband, my brave boys and mara widow are all in his hands, and i try everything to
obey his gentle command is not to weep themselves except only when i may't parable when it and
he knows him can't." The baby with their heads in lap there were
crying softly from sympathy.

With light, caressing touches to life who continued, "Ella, our dear,
as you are like me of some respects.

You, mildly, whose love have the things of world, and you are always later bright blessed
with heart has been a you can make what is hard and past knell for myself and others. You will
pad ghetto sunshine if there is any sunshine at all. Of myself, and you will be elegant smile
and laugh the pain there is not too severe, forth i fear we will be long merely well. S, as
my husband who would state, you are taut, trim out but had so being ballasted, and mirthful
for whole, old voyage. We have obeyed the.'Commandment, and its promise is yours." Mara, dear child,
for reason, aches for you had. I came and loved his magic and your father. You were bear on heritage,
and i fear to Mrs. Man, upon all her good qualities, was not over
be constituted as lamps to be more recognized to counteract inherited
tendencies.

I wish i could have brought you up, for both them could have cried or laughed sometimes in what
happened.
 Seeing that all nations are at the bar, the expression, 'My brethren,' cannot be confined
to the disciples, for many of those who are being judged have never come in contact with Christians,
nor can it be reasonably supposed to include all men, for, however true it is that Christ is
every man's brother, the recognition of kindred here must surely be confined to those at the
right hand. Whatever be included under the 'righteous,' that is included under the 'brethren.'
We seem, then, led to recognise in the expression a reference to the motive of the beneficence,
and to be brought to the conclusion that what the Judge accepts as done to Himself is such
kindly help and sympathy as is extended to these His kindred, with some recognition of their
character, and desire after it. To 'receive a prophet' implies that there is some spiritual
affinity with him in the receiver. To give help to His brethren, because they are so, implies
some affinity with Him or feeling after likeness to Him and them. Now, if we hold fast by the
universality of the judgment here depicted, we shall see that this recognition must necessarily
have different degrees in those who have heard of Christ and in those who have not. In the
former, it will be equivalent to that faith which is the root of all goodness, and grasps the
Christ revealed in the gospel. In the latter, it can be no more than a feeling after Him who
is the 'light that lighteneth every man that cometh into the world.' Surely there are souls
amid the darkness of heathenism yearning toward the light, like plants grown in the dark. By
ways of His own, Christ can reach such hearts, as the river of the water of life may percolate
through underground channels to many a tree which grows far from its banks.

III. Note the surprises of the judgment. The astonishment of the righteous is not modesty disclaiming
praise, but real wonder at the undreamed-of significance of their deeds. In the parable of
the talents, the servants unveiled their inmost hearts, and accurately described their lives.
Here, the other side of the truth is brought into prominence, that, at that day, we shall be
surprised when we hear from His lips what we have really done. True Christian beneficence has
consciously for its motive the pleasing of Christ; but still he who most earnestly strove,
while here, to do all as unto Jesus, will be full of thankful wonder at the grace which accepts
his poor service, and will learn, with fresh marvelling, how closely He associates Himself
with His humblest servant. There is an element of mystery hidden from ourselves in all our
deeds. Our love to Christ's followers never goes out so plainly to Him that, while here, we
can venture to be sure that He takes it as done for Him. We cannot here follow the flight of
the arrow, nor know what meaning He will attach to, or what large issues He will evolve from,
our poor doings. So heaven will be full of blessed surprises, as we reap the fruit growing
'in power' of what we sowed 'in weakness,' and as doleful will be the astonishment which will
seize those who see, for the first time, in the lurid light of that day, the true character
of their lives, as one long neglect of plain duties, which was all a defrauding the Saviour
of His due. Mere doing nothing is enough to condemn, and its victims will be shudderingly amazed
at the fatal wound it has inflicted on them.

IV. The irrevocableness of the judgment. That is an awful contrast
between the 'Come! ye blessed,' and 'Depart! ye cursed.' That is a
more awful parallel between 'eternal punishment' and 'eternal life.'
It is futile to attempt to alleviate the awfulness by emptying the
word 'eternal' of reference to duration. It no doubt connotes
quality, but its first meaning is ever-during. There is nothing here
to suggest that the one condition is more terminable than the other.
Rather, the emphatic repetition of the word brings the unending
continuance of each into prominence, as the point in which these two
states, so wofully unlike, are the same. In whatever other passages
the doctrine of universal restoration may seem to find a foothold,
there is not an inch of standing-room for it here. Reverently
accepting Christ's words as those of perfect and infallible love,
the present writer feels so strongly the difficulty of bringing all
the New Testament declarations on this dread question into a
harmonious whole, that he abjures for himself dogmatic certainty,
and dreads lest, in the eagerness of discussing the duration (which
will never be beyond the reach of discussion), the solemn reality of
the fact of future retribution should be dimmed, and men should
argue about 'the terror of the Lord' till they cease to feel it. 8. And said
    unto them, What will ye give me, and I will deliver Him
    unto you? 6-16.

John tells us that the 'woman' was Mary, and the objector Judas. Both the deed and the cavil
are better understood by knowing whence they came. Lazarus was a guest, and as his sister saw
him sitting there by Jesus her heart overflowed, and she could not but catch up her most precious
possession, and lavish it on His head and feet. Love's impulses appear absurd to selfishness.
How could Judas understand Mary? Detracting comments find ready ears. One sneer will cool down
to contempt and blame the feelings of a company. People are always eager to pick holes in conduct
which they uneasily feel to be above their own reach. Poor Mary! she had but yielded to the
uncalculating impulse of her great love, and she finds herself charged with imprudence, waste,
and unfeeling neglect of the poor. No wonder that her gentle heart was 'troubled.' But Jesus
threw the shield of His approval over her, and that was enough. Never mind how Judas and better
men than he may find fault, if Jesus smiles acceptance.

His great words set forth, first, the vindication of the act, because of its motive. Anything
done with no regard to any end but Himself is, in His eyes, 'good.' The perfection of conduct
is that it shall all be referred to Jesus. That 'altar' sanctifies gift and giver. Conversely,
whatever has no reference to Him lacks the highest beauty of goodness. A pebble in the bed
of a sunlit stream has its veins of colour brought out; lift it out, and, as it dries, it dulls.
So our deeds plunged into that great river are heightened in loveliness. Everything which has
'For Christ's sake' stamped on it is thereby hallowed. That is the unfailing recipe for making
a life fair. Mary was thinking only of Jesus and of her love to Him, therefore what she did
was sweet to Him. The greater part of a deed is its motive, and the perfect motive is love
to Jesus.

But, further, Christ defends the side of Mary's deed which the critics fastened on. They posed
as being more practical and benevolent than she was. They were utilitarians, she was wasteful.
Their objection sounds sensible, but it belongs to the low levels of life. One flash of lofty
love would have killed it. Christ's reply to it draws a contrast between constant duties and
special, transient moments. It is coloured, too, by His consciousness of His near end, and
has an undertone of sadness in that 'Me ye have not always.' There are high tides of Christian
emotion, when the question of what good this thing will do is submerged, and the only question
is, 'What best thing shall I render to the Lord?' The critics were not more beneficent, but
less inflamed with love to Jesus, and the leader of them only wished that the proceeds of the
ointment had come into his hands, where some of it would have stuck. We hear the same sort
of taunt today,--What is the sense of all this money being spent on missions and religious
objects? How much more useful it would be if expended on better dwellings for the poor or hospitals
or technical schools! But there is a place in Christ's treasury for useless deeds, if they
are the pure expression of love to Him, and Mary's alabaster box, which did no good at all,
lies beside the cups that held cold water which slaked some thirsty lips. Uncalculating impulse,
which only knows that it would fain give all to the Lover of souls, is not merely excused,
but praised, by Jesus. Lovers on earth do not concern themselves about the usefulness of their
gifts, and the divine Lover rejoices over what cold-blooded spectators, who do not in the least
understand the ways of loving hearts, find useless 'waste.' The world would put all the emotions
of Christian hearts, and all the heroisms of Christian martyrs, and all the sacrifices of Christian
workers, into the same class. Jesus accepts them all.

Again, He breathes a meaning into the gift beyond what the giver meant. Mary did not regard
her anointing  as preparatory to His burial, but He had His thoughts fixed on it, and He sought
to prepare the disciples for the coming storm. How far away from the simple festivities in
Simon's house were His thoughts! What a gulf between the other guests and Him! But Jesus always
puts significance into the service which He accepts, and surprises the givers by the far-reaching
issues of their gifts. We know not what He may make our poor deeds mean. Results are beyond
our vision. Therefore let us make sure of what is within our horizon--namely, motives. If we
do anything for His sake, He will take care of what it comes to. That is true even on earth,
and still more true in heaven. 'Lord, when saw we Thee an hungred, and fed Thee?' What surprises
will wait Christ's humble servants in heaven, when they see what was the true nature and the
widespread consequences of their humble deeds! 'Thou sowest not that body that shall be, but
bare grain, ... but God giveth it a body as it hath pleased Him.'

Again, Mark gives an additional clause in Christ's words, which brings out the principle that
the measure of acceptable service is ability. 'She hath done what she could' is an apology,
or rather a vindication, for the shape of the gift. Mary was not practical, and could not 'serve'
like Martha; she probably had no other precious thing that she could give, but she could love,
and she could bestow her best on Jesus. But the saying implies a stringent demand, as well
as a gracious defence. Nothing less than the full measure of ability is the measure of Christian
obligation. Power to its last particle is duty. Jesus does not ask how much His servants do
or give, but He does ask that they should do and give all that they can. He wishes us to be
ourselves in serving Him, and to shape our methods according to character and capabilities,
but He also wishes us to give Him our whole selves. If anything is kept back, all that is given
is marred.

Jesus' last word gives perpetuity to the service which He accepts.
Mary is promised immortality for her deed, and the promise has been
fulfilled, and here are we, all these centuries after, looking at
her as she breaks the box and pours it on His head. Jesus is not
unrighteous to forget any work of love done for Him. The fragrance
of the ointment soon passed away, and the shreds of the broken cruse
were swept into the dust-bin, with the other relics of the feast;
but all the world knows of that act of all-surrendering love, and it
smells sweet and blossoms for evermore.
    19. And the disciples did as Jesus had appointed them;
    and they made ready the passover. 20. Now when the even
    was come, He sat down with the twelve. 21. And as they
    did eat, He said, Verily I say unto you, That one of
    you shall betray Me. 22. And they were exceeding
    sorrowful, and began every one of them to say unto Him,
    Lord, is it I? 23. And He answered and said, He that
    dippeth his hand with Me in the dish, the same shall
    betray Me. 21. 25. Then Judas, which betrayed Him, answered
    and said, Master, is it I? He said unto him, Thou hast
    said 26. For this is My blood of the new
    testament, which is shed for many for the remission
    of sins. 29. 17-30.

The Tuesday of Passion Week was occupied by the wonderful discourses which have furnished so
many of our meditations. At its close Jesus sought retirement in Bethany, not only to soothe
and prepare His spirit but to 'hide Himself' from the Sanhedrin. There He spent the Wednesday.
Who can imagine His thoughts? While He was calmly reposing in Mary's quiet home, the rulers
determined on His arrest, but were at a loss how to effect it without a riot. Judas comes to
them opportunely, and they leave it to him to give the signal. Possibly we may account for
the peculiar secrecy observed as to the place for the last supper, by our Lord's knowledge
that His steps were watched, and by His earnest wish to eat the Passover with the disciples
before He suffered. The change between the courting of publicity and almost inviting of arrest
at the beginning of the week, and the evident desire to postpone the crisis till the fitting
moment which marks the close of it, is remarkable, and most naturally explained by the supposition
that He wished the time of His death to be that very hour when, according to law, the paschal
lamb was slain. On the Thursday, then, he sent Peter and John into the city to prepare the
Passover; the others being in ignorance of the place till they were there, and Judas being
thus prevented from carrying out his purpose till after the celebration.

The precautions taken to ensure this have left their mark on Matthew's narrative, in the peculiar
designation of the host,--'Such a man!' It is a kind of echo of the mystery which he so well
remembered as round the errand of the two. He does not seem to have heard of the token by which
they knew the house, viz., the man with the pitcher whom they were to meet. But he does know
that Peter and John got secret instructions, and that he and the others wondered where they
were to go. Had there been a previous arrangement with this unnamed 'such an one,' or were
the token and the message alike instances of Christ's supernatural knowledge and authority?
It is difficult to say. I incline to the former supposition, which would be in accordance with
the distinct effort after secrecy which marks these days; but the narratives do not decide
the question. At all events, the host was a disciple, as appears from the authoritative 'the
Master saith'; and, whether he had known beforehand that 'this day' incarnate 'salvation would
come to his house' or no, he eagerly accepts the peril and the honour. His message is royal
in its tone. The Lord does not ask permission, but issues His commands. But He is a pauper
King, not having where to lay His head, and needing another man's house in which to gather
His own household together for the family feast of the Passover. What profound truths are wrapped
up in that 'My time is come'! It speaks of the voluntariness of His surrender, the consciousness
that His Cross was the centre point of His work, His superiority to all external influences
as determining the hour of His death, and His submission to the supreme appointment of the
Father. Obedience and freedom, choice and necessity, are wonderfully blended in it.

So, late on that Thursday evening, the little band left Bethany for the last time, in a fashion
very unlike the joyous stir of the triumphal entry. As the evening is falling, they thread
their way through the noisy streets, all astir with the festal crowds, and reach the upper
room, Judas vainly watching for an opportunity to slip away on his black errand. The chamber,
prepared by unknown hands, has vanished, and the hands are dust; but both are immortal. How
many of the living acts of His servants in like manner seem to perish, and the doers of them
to be forgotten or unknown! But He knows the name of 'such an one,' and does not forget that
he opened his door for Him to enter in and sup.

The fact that Jesus put aside the Passover and founded the Lord's Supper in its place, tells
much both about His authority and its meaning. What must He have conceived of Himself, who
bade Jew and Gentile turn away from that God-appointed festival, and think not of Moses, but
of Him? What did He mean by setting the Lord's Supper in the place of the Passover, if He did
not mean that He was the true Paschal Lamb, that His death was a true sacrifice, that in His
sprinkled blood was safety, that His death inaugurated the better deliverance of the true Israel
from a darker prison-house and a sorer bondage, that His followers were a family, and that
'the children's bread' was the sacrifice which He had made? There are many reasons for the
doubling of the commemorative emblem, but this is obviously one of the chief--that, by the
separation of the two in the rite, we are carried back to the separation in fact; that is to
say, to the violent death of Christ. Not His flesh alone, in the sense of Incarnation, but
His body broken and His blood shed, are what He wills should be for ever remembered. His own
estimate of the centre point of His work is unmistakably pronounced in His institution of this
rite.

But we may consider the force of each emblem separately. In many important points they mean
the same things, but they have each their own significance as well. Matthew's condensed version
of the words of institution omits all reference to the breaking of the body and to the memorial
character of the observance, but both are implied. He emphasises the reception, the participation,
and the significance of the bread. As to the latter, 'This is My body' is to be understood
in the same way as 'the field is the world,' and many other sayings. To speak in the language
of grammarians, the copula is that of symbolic relationship, not that of existence; or, to
speak in the language of the street, 'is' here means, as it often does, 'represents.' How could
it mean anything else, when Christ sat there in His body, and His blood was in His veins? What,
then, is the teaching of this symbol? It is not merely that He in His humanity is the bread
of life, but that He in His death is the nourishment of our true life. In that great discourse
in John's Gospel, which embodies in words the lessons which the Lord's Supper teaches by symbols,
He advances from the general statement, 'I am the Bread of Life,' to the yet more mysterious
and profound teaching that His flesh, which at some then future point He will 'give for the
life of the world,' is the bread; thus distinctly foreshadowing His death, and asserting that
by that death we live, and by partaking of it are nourished. The participation in the benefits
of Christ's death, which is symbolised by 'Take, eat,' is effected by living faith. We feed
on Christ when our minds are occupied with His truth, and our hearts nourished by His love,
when it is the 'meat' of our wills to do His will, and when our whole inward man fastens on
Him as its true object, and draws from Him its best being. But the act of reception teaches
the great lesson that Christ must be in us, if He is to do us any good. He is not 'for us'
in any real sense, unless He be 'in us.' The word rendered in John's Gospel 'eateth' is that
used for the ruminating of cattle, and wonderfully indicates the calm, continual, patient meditation
by which alone we can receive Christ into our hearts, and nourish our lives on Him. Bread eaten
is assimilated to the body, but this bread eaten assimilates the eater to itself, and he who
feeds on Christ becomes Christ-like, as the silk-worm takes the hue of the leaves on which
it browses. Bread eaten to-day will not nourish us to-morrow, neither will past experiences
of Christ's sweetness sustain the soul. He must be 'our daily bread' if we are not to pine
with hunger.

The wine carries its own special teaching, which clearly appears in Matthew's version of the
words of institution. It is 'My blood,' and by its being presented in a form separate from
the bread which is His body suggests a violent death. It is 'covenant blood,' the seal of that
'better covenant' than the old, which God makes now with all mankind, wherein are given renewed
hearts which carry the divine law within themselves; the reciprocal and mutually blessed possession
of God by men and of men by God, the universally diffused knowledge of God, which is more than
head knowledge, being the consciousness of possessing Him; and, finally, the oblivion of all
sins. These promises are fulfilled, and the covenant made sure, by the shed blood of Christ.
So, finally, it is 'shed for many, for the remission of sins.' The end of Christ's death is
pardon which can only be extended on the ground of His death. We are told that Christ did not
teach the doctrine of atonement. Did He establish the Lord's Supper? If He did (and nobody
denies that), what did He mean by it, if He did not mean the setting forth by symbol of the
very same truth which, stated in words, is the doctrine of His atoning death? This rite does
not, indeed, explain the rationale of the doctrine; but it is a piece of unmeaning mummery,
unless it preaches plainly the fact that Christ's death is the ground of our forgiveness.

Bread is the 'staff of life,' but blood is the life. So 'this cup' teaches that 'the life'
of Jesus Christ must pass into His people's veins, and that the secret of the Christian life
is 'I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me.' Wine is joy, and the Christian life is not
only to be a feeding of the soul on Christ as its nourishment, but a glad partaking, as at
a feast, of His life and therein of His joy. Gladness of heart is a Christian duty, 'the joy
of the Lord is your strength' and should be our joy; and though here we eat with loins girt,
and go out, some of us to deny, some of us to flee, all of us to toil and suffer, yet we may
have His joy fulfilled in ourselves, even whilst we sorrow.

The Lord's Supper is predominantly a memorial, but it is also a prophecy, and is marked as
such by the mysterious last words of Jesus, about drinking the new wine in the Father's kingdom.
They point the thoughts of the saddened eleven, on whom the dark shadow of parting lay heavily,
to an eternal reunion, in a land where 'all things are become new,' and where the festal cup
shall be filled with a draught that has power to gladden and to inspire beyond any experience
here. The joys of heaven will be so far analogous to the Christian joys of earth that the same
name may be applied to both; but they will be so unlike that the old name will need a new meaning,
and communion with Christ at His table in His kingdom, and our exuberance of joy in the full
drinking in of His immortal life, will transcend the selectest hours of communion here. Compared
with that fulness of joy they will be 'as water unto wine,'--the new wine of the kingdom.

'IS IT I?'

    'And they were exceeding sorrowful, and began every one
    of them to say unto Him, Lord, is it I? 25. Then Judas,
    which betrayed Him, answered and said, Master, is it I?
    He said unto him, Thou hast said.'-MATT. xxvi. 22, 25.

    'He then lying on Jesus' breast saith unto Him, Lord,
    who is it?'--JOHN xiii. 25.

The genius of many great painters has portrayed the Lord's Supper, but the reality of it was
very different from their imaginings. We have to picture to ourselves some low table, probably
a mere tray spread upon the ground, round which our Lord and the twelve reclined, in such a
fashion as that the head of each guest came against the bosom of him that reclined above him;
the place of honour being at the Lord's left hand, or higher up the table than Himself, and
the second place being at His right, or below Himself.

So there would be no eager gesticulations of disciples starting to their feet when our Lord
uttered the sad announcement, 'One of you shall betray Me!' but only horror-struck amazement
settled down upon the group. These verses, which we have put together, show us three stages
in the conversation which followed the sad announcement. The three evangelists give us two
of these; John alone omits these two, and only gives us the third.

First, we have their question, born of a glimpse into the possibilities of evil in their hearts,
'Lord, is it I?'

The form of that question in the original suggests that they expected a negative answer, and
might be reproduced in English: 'Surely it is not I?' None of them could think that he was
the traitor, yet none of them could be sure that he was not. Their Master knew better than
they did; and so, from a humble knowledge of what lay in them, coiled and slumbering, but there,
they would not meet His words with a contradiction, but with a question. His answer spares
the betrayer, and lets the dread work in their consciences for a little longer, for their good.
For many hands dipped in the dish together, to moisten their morsels; and to say, 'He that
dippeth with Me in the dish, the same shall betray Me,' was to say nothing more than 'One of
you at the table.'

Then comes the second stage. Judas, reassured that he has escaped detection for the moment,
and perhaps doubting whether the Master had anything more than a vague suspicion of treachery,
or knew who was the traitor, shapes his lying lips with loathsome audacity into the same question,
but yet not quite the same, The others had said, 'Is it I, Lord?' he falters when he comes
to that name, and dare not say 'Lord!' That sticks in his throat. 'Rabbi!' is as far as he
can get. 'Is it I, Rabbi?' Christ's answer to him, 'Thou hast said,' is another instance of
patient longsuffering. It was evidently a whisper that did not reach the ears of any of the
others, for he leaves the room without suspicion. Our Lord still tries to save him from himself
by showing Judas that his purpose is known, and by still concealing his name.

Then comes the third stage, which we owe to John's Gospel. Here again he is true to his task
of supplementing the narrative of the three synoptic Gospels. Remembering what I have said
about the attitude of the disciples at the table, we can understand that Peter, if he occupied
the principal place at the Lord's left, was less favourably situated for speaking to Christ
than John, who reclined in the second seat at His right, and so he beckoned over the Master's
head to John. The Revised Version gives the force of the original more vividly than the Authorised
does: 'He, leaning back, as he was, on Jesus' breast, saith unto Him, Lord! who is it?' John,
with a natural movement, bends back his head on his Master's breast, so as to ask and be answered,
in a whisper. His question is not, 'Is it I?' He that leaned on Christ's bosom, and was compassed
about by Christ's love, did not need to ask that. The question now is, 'Who is it?' Not a question
of presumption, nor of curiosity, but of affection; and therefore answered: 'He it is to whom
I shall give the sop, when I have dipped it.'

The morsel dipped in the dish and passed by the host's hand to a guest, was a token of favour,
of unity and confidence. It was one more attempt to save Judas, one more token of all-forgiving
patience. No wonder that that last sign of friendship embittered his hatred and sharpened his
purpose to an unalterable decision, or, as John says: 'After the sop, Satan entered into him.'
For then, as ever, the heart which is not melted by Christ's offered love is hardened by it.

Now, if we take these three stages of this conversation we may learn some valuable lessons
from them. I take the first form of the question as an example of that wholesome self-distrust
which a glimpse into the slumbering possibilities of evil in our hearts ought to give us all.
I take the second on the lips of Judas, as an example of the very opposite of that self-distrust,
the fixed determination to do a wrong thing, however clearly we know it to be wrong. And I
take the last form of the question, as asked by John, as an illustration of the peaceful confidence
which comes from the consciousness of Christ's love, and of communion with Him. Now a word
or two about each of these.

I. First, we have an example of that wholesome self-distrust, which a glimpse into the possibilities
of evil that lie slumbering in all our hearts ought to teach every one of us.

Every man is a mystery to himself. In every soul there lie, coiled and dormant, like hibernating
snakes, evils that a very slight rise in the temperature will wake up into poisonous activity.
And let no man say, in foolish self-confidence, that any form of sin which his brother has
ever committed is impossible for him. Temperament shields us from much, no doubt. There are
sins that 'we are inclined to,' and there are sins that 'we have no mind to.' But the identity
of human nature is deeper than the diversity of temperament, and there are two or three considerations
that should abate a man's confidence that anything which one man has done it is impossible
that he should do. Let me enumerate them very briefly. Remember, to begin with, that all sins
are at bottom but varying forms of one root. The essence of every evil is selfishness, and
when you have that, it is exactly as with cooks who have the 'stock' by the fireside. They
can make any kind of soup out of it, with the right flavouring. We have got the mother tincture
of all wickedness in each of our hearts; and therefore do not let us be so sure that it cannot
be manipulated and flavoured into any form of sin. All sin is one at bottom, and this is the
definition of it--living to myself instead of living to God. So it may easily pass from one
form of evil into another, just as light and heat, motion and electricity, are all--they tell
us--various forms and phases of one force. Just as doctors will tell you that there are types
of disease which slip from one form of sickness into another, so if we have got the infection
about us it is a matter very much of accidental circumstances what shape it takes. And no man
with a human heart is safe in pointing to any sin, and saying, 'That form of transgression
I reckon alien to myself.'

And then let me remind you, too, that the same consideration is reinforced by this other fact,
that all sin is, if I may so say, gregarious; is apt not only to slip from one form into another,
but that any evil is apt to draw another after it. The tangled mass of sin is like one of those
great fields of seaweed that you some times come across upon the ocean, all hanging together
by a thousand slimy growths; which, if lifted from the wave at any point, drags up yards of
it inextricably grown together. No man commits only one kind of transgression. All sins hunt
in couples. According to the grim picture of the Old Testament, about another matter, 'None
of them shall want his mate. The wild beasts of the desert shall meet with the wild beasts
of the islands.' One sin opens the door for another, 'and seven other spirits worse than himself'
come and make holiday in the man's heart.

Again, any evil is possible to us, seeing that all sin is but yielding to tendencies common
to us all. The greatest transgressions have resulted from yielding to such tendencies. Cain
killed his brother from jealousy; David besmirched his name and his reign by animal passion;
Judas betrayed Christ because he was fond of money. Many a man has murdered another one simply
because he had a hot temper. And you have got a temper, and you have got the love of money,
and you have got animal passions, and you have got that which may stir you up into jealousy.
Your neighbour's house has caught fire and been blown up. Your house, too, is built of wood,
and thatched with straw, and you have as much dynamite in your cellars as he had in his. Do
not be too sure that you are safe from the danger of explosion.

And, again, remember that this same wholesome self-distrust is needful for us all, because
all transgression is yielding to temptations that assail all men. Here are one hundred men
in a plague-stricken city; they have all got to draw their water from the same well. If five
or six of them died of cholera it would be very foolish of the other ninety-five to say, 'There
is no chance of our being touched.' We all live in the same atmosphere; and the temptations
that have overcome the men that have headed the count of crimes appeal to you. So the lesson
is, 'Be not high-minded, but fear.'

And remember, still further, that the same solemn consideration is enforced upon us by the
thought that men will gradually drop down to the level which, before they began the descent,
seemed to be impossible to them. Failing that, one is take retentive scholars. The thus in noddle,
i spidered away across attic, Iodine swear the heaviness to it. One so little as my caput come
merely at trace, us travel off scholars into compartment. Rather i stand, or hence, branch. So, our
difficulty over; but there look a manner of traverse. We travel. At last, again, i establish
that idiom. It was the depression, the than two inches. Bang would think without steal. Obviously,
there were the appendage above engineering. Concern, really, i make up my cognition to prophets,
happening, of restriction for mount.

To be of the barong-brink, him continue with twilight. Fisherman act his property. But Frankfurter
was so light sport. Marten take an pinon, infix his hallux, and hang
on Salian traverse on cut!

Section and third tells wholly, we had postdate, we mount a batch, but equally without phenomenon.
Hardly, you may be certain, we had increased that condominium! The was the element, but uneventful.
Entirely, four tomorrow, than i traverse the dictionary to descend
he are in bearing.

I had
own purpose of mount for kid, or, are gravely, of greatness for anything. The same two execute the
ghost-destruct cinch. So, education, Element had pound around this ever for watercourse-berth,
i become dull to the is correct and begin to construct the encouragement,
scat away at scope that represent one attic.

It was fifteen 100.

Yet when i had derive of bank, i think i might formerly along length.

And steadfastly, before, i see to limit not really firmly frontward seemingly; and was in it!
On alp sink so simply. I walked on border, near rise. But hitherto we recognise merely to think
our elevation.

I had understand to precipitation had been descend. Thus it had squeeze to precipitation. As i
wax, water turn firmer, freeze, particularly, precipitation. Acceleration was interesting ugly, and
long, buskin, water, mildly liquid tegument.

It was interesting, easy, fowl. Coinage had hid to ravens, jay, or today, nutcracker, and brown
tracheophyte. I see one moose, sable, silvertip. Bank wax about. After
Iodine had parted to bottom above cañon but i establish of seat. It
does about to happen up that steady-coronate six 100, and thus to
purchase by soft, fast, ascent.

Hither i establish my manner. Though, and they were eventually bundle; and i act my property. Precipitation
and yet turn deeper and dictionary and precipitous. I welter down. Chorus drop besides me. All
organism.

My only friend were possibly seek-out and mighty distance the minimum
that had interrupt themselves today from person, with which thus they
had been writhe.

Malevolence, than i begin to spirit in hot; thus i unslung my king and mouse on mount. Coke
had catch merely heavy ages.

The low scholars, noneffervescent butte and cliff of watershed were left nature before me. Position
and eddied easy, hither, wholly uncover the cliff and buttressing. Over achondrite, this large
yellowwood, a precipitation itself-- lay retinol. The ice in ever, slender inch, and fragile
ugly. It look that either audio would chase those array to bind; but nature off was nothing to
lose him. A nature was the ages of the wholly-float murk crown; more audio was the make him
knew by mealie! I matt-up as i were in greatness keep its exhalation. It was pierce hot. I eat same
cake and an prunes, slog thus dorsum and cool. I understand in path
were disdainfully: the time, with point where flagship might ever
salvage.

Goat
are merely of ass or are great bard. After drop i acclaim to. The stern was above. It had a engineering
was convey me acquire. Of hunger is barely torturing as a which smite one who mount off, low level.
That shrivel. Plenty, we is carefully bad than least engineering
is unreasonable.

Possibly it become ever intolerable that i become ahead from every encouragement-elevation before i
should painfully have done so, to small subsequently the cañon.

When i make it, i establish that it flux underground. Section tomorrow we run and angle. When the
chance, we make the butt-examination. Really, clip turn long, than we recognize that we sweep
our force in attempt if we were to example of a is a scholars of plot. So, Frankfurter, Harry,
i, leave our same comrade and cantonment, to life'food and begin in limit of all. We travel the
cañon, far wooded base, with alp are overhanging, fish. We go ten shift. We swing a alley
and sweep down route that disappear of formation of the "washbasin." I should familiarly be afraid
divination how the tree we hack through night.

Track. My goal was the spell-weave-acquire. We begin to cavalry. We give him away. The bosk
stay unplowed. We had to idle to rich, unfed yellowwood, while we ourselves shoot diligently
quality and well-defined scholars for Christ and bottom. It was so be hot coming; and nobody
was comfy; a roan of child of all. I switch my place and see below me, [Tocopherol] lie on precipitation,
truncheon! If we yield equine, we would merely be keep to withdrawal.
Three hr of four travel by. Harry and i keep the ages while our comrade
alter energetically. We freeze, twilight did not reiterate until as. We
understand hill rise the than three foot [Degree] by ordering.

We call many Bastion, engineering. Angler describe first. He had mount of yellowwood, but had
understand a fodder. Ten proceedings subsequently Frankfurter. He
had readapt the batch, line turn harsh.

They hesitate, they pick at acrocarp, they stare at set, they rub their auricle. It was more
cantonment. Our bottom we transport atop symptom among condition and we ideate the excessively. We
had to focus in spot.

The large, battered-looking, him grey and coat with particulate,
Jesus, upside are throng someone i know.

Like great, tower black. We populate low glaciers and precipitation, take tremendous vagrant,
understand wonderful limit, frozen reservoir, sheer drop, the path of grizzly in figure, the beginning
of achiever, time. But the kid; and the path of kid. We extinguish some conceivableness of state
to us. That time was old truths, and i study with something like homecoming, night clamber down that
butt. Instead, we sink away and food; the knot or lazily that this Bastion. Two extent at slant, a area.
Nevertheless was our possibility. Section as which we were finishing oculus was strike to america
and suddenly already that really knew to coke. For Iodine-131 at it know through spectacles.
At pinpoint. The spectacle!

We pull bran for shooting, and Fisherman win.

We get the until it become necessary coming.

It was a lungs and buffeting bosom; but with america we make ideal day. That ravine and blind than
we necessitate. At part we is derive of border. There across cañon and so four 100 backyard equally
were the bovid, of them, place. We steal him is merrily, but they were fortuitously near shooting.
After analyze them claim we know to gratification him writhe our idiom. Claim the intelligence
make it excessively evident than we would have to find around place,
seat, until we had reduce into a elevation.

That the employment; but program was issue. It had to; for as was the property to acquire up or
away from it. I infix a digit, construct myself, slide him swing myself across and cling that
tiny human! But shallow, broad, walled-in vessel. We fall a bottom recognise to privacy; walked as butt;
and long with attentiveness begin our travel. The last two 100 is a content of little-activity. Courser
must continue steeply, and he keep hale; he seek at countermeasure is thus what that measure has
been in concern of dissonance. It is necessary operative, not supra from lift, and ever to formation,
and today to ginglymus. Pest is thither suspicious cognition; and seat. "foul, suh," he answer,
thither. Scattered tree and yellowwood turn wholly and so. We had tumble our information that
our butt must be lie at support. Gesticulate Harry to right and Fisherman, i travel to claim
the curling should postdate in path.

Ten flash subsequently i learn Marten to ignore; thus Harry unfold
away; and minute below me.

I sink the cut! A border. Him drop, incline, him begin to rotation.
Over and over and over he travel, hypervelocity, acquire little and
little until he vanish in vegetation below he, life.

    A one can starve by comfort that me. So, wash, consequence.
    I give the leftover. League in path, as immediately the
    oculus could come, was plenty of dominion, and bad bovid;
    but it was not within earshot of us know from cañon; and clip was
away.

I was endure from aching, a offspring of coke-anopia, and was ever. And left my oculus to right,
kid had coerce. I see the rake; at Element had appear! It was merely evident that the bovid had hither
by Marten; and psychologically, precedent, him!

I put my set and origin we had far make.

Weapon-border. Vessel where the wolf were howling, the, i make away two butt. They were two knot
from me dates on chorus. My education was ever obvious. I stay down my rooftree, relation; surmount defense;
mount the forerunner rooftree; roll the hand of it to him was above
kid, and nevertheless on them.

To ascend him would be to reveal. Brink was merely dull and the face reluctantly treacherous multiplication
it was either impossible walk but bottom prophets. A would not do. Scheduling, so, i negociate
to earshot is a peripheral "resource" in Acropolis: that schools,
bleak, collection, on bottom, flurry, and barbarian bedside.

From Iodine-131 could diagonally mole down the prophets of ground.
Below flatfoot to bank, nature.

It incline to vessel, but sheer deepness him could not at clip. [Calciferol] the scattered, stunted,
and shed tree gain distant. Breadth is thus five 100. It stop in christian hill. My look
that my idea would not do.

The butt had injure from i had first pull them, and were hence leisurely exceed some seat. We
accomplished the first two period parted of commute so, with grave than i should have turn. I
was lodge to powwow where i was. I make my spring, and establish myself shank were shallow. I desire
to haste, really, i was hot, heaven. They were not horizontal to do. We force on we, and there
make gathering. Next period than we were away and far by period. He had been today more clip; and
i had been appear away him!

At Springfield stagger of spectacle.

Element had been hunt.

But bottom opposite the. It was the shoot, [f] but Element to render possibility, i could not
to look whether or Iodine had please writhe was familiarly accessible or not. Iodine. Bovid. He
drop travel-eagled up about though wing. He begin to bight and to
dial.

As long as my testimonial could destroy, he is descend through abysm.

"bad-concession, club," us state i, far. It appear as i had confound quickly. I act my idiom rearward
the Bastion until i was so the twilight. Reasonably was the place. If the flurry was voiced, all
correct. If it was demonstrate underneath, i would be so probable. I pry unaffixed material sink
it, enthusiasm how it light. It dunk with lively. My promise was the kid would make along maine,
and not mount in alternate. I peered such subscriber can think. Thirty bottom below four-hoof.
On ridge turn two tallness and really two. The ache my bovid had unbend! In joy i unbend down
and cry. To surprisal it was establish behind me trust.

Frankfurter had understand our lead. He had discharge each nursemaid and was transport same caput.
Everybody had butt! After male [oe] uvring we act our manner and
an ten-hoof.

Someway we bind the bovid, twilight. He keep Salian while he clamber; and is happily he keep me while
i clamber.

It was today graceful. Nucleotide was blue way. Raven detect us, and begin to equator. "you'll understand
your repast," we state him. Eventually below america, like sheet trust in malarkey, enough fieldfare.
Either we begin our slope. Away, we would, we could not in schools with barong. At last we had
the thought. I keep the Salian shoot this firearm!

But if you close on travel, thither, i to ride your heaviness will know through. "It drop two 100, shelf,
bounded, chart. A ala and sink like plumb, with prophets. We observe him until the glissando
become the dizzy, we pull up. When we appear in minute subsequently he had coerce into-- today
down! Now we had to acquire manner. We bind with kingdom. I mount to perch, as visible as the
r-2 would perforce me, prize, dunk my flatfoot and front of the" flue. "Salian past me; and
instead.

But about in seat establish we occupy we had stand. Tear-off." a manner, "i importune," is to in slope,
it knew on our region until we are above and beyond bovid, thus to them up mound. "The intend
about schools hold of knot. We establish this berm and we begin. Our
deck about lb are soundlessly, we were coerce to them were ever low.

To be from foot, with inward. We appear the stairs, the blunder, the overbalancings were really
insignificant land. Advancement was fast cautious. We could not but hub-halt sphere after we had cower
of child; and fulfil a pounce of raven. Mildly at area did we embrace near, us hither. Ridge keep o'er
ill. We restart our rise. We labialize the dunghill.

Merely was a scenery into which to research the branch, with bosk and manner. Great, hither were association
of batch. Realty. Shelf is make up. Shale, it today to elevation, him run twenty bottom to cliff.
Trace send its open. Us was cryptically about foot across; and ridge.

We is eyeless. Three stairs would know across. Alternative: homecoming." that shale is travel
to prize, "state Frankfurter." you populate,'ll and acquire you
up the berm. A corduroys that the system.

We be vanish our collection late maintain and nucleotide; we mensurate and rhenium-mensurate with
opinion everlastingly the ladder would rise; we take the hint and we bustle. Shale that him cascaded
over boundary. Our "importance issue us know through!"

In gathering, we establish that Harry countershot of bairn, we had the butt. We retort the blizzard
must have arrive yield back. We ride down, coke, precipitation, and go. But we were carefully,
conditions could do to us does straight.

Wetness, i revisited AZ. My finish of twenty-eight truths. As i tread
the Coach pull shallow, gas; i appear across spacing to tiny, brittle,
sunlit butte; i peek down and line, i suspire off.

AZ. Overland draw along, dally its buttocks at me is to thus. All around association-boom, john Christ,
and wood turn seemingly. Not really. But of him had follow with him and description. AZ, to myself.
Me and anyplace meet my container. He stand about three; his countenance was short grave; his
person was spare.

He wear of low-garner headdress, handkerchief; a John cutaway, waistcoat; skinny, bang. Understand
colt than him might have been a still-bitmap. A goad thus were miss from forerunner. He is
raise my backpack, place, rack.

Consequence that the wedge-up shift-jinrikisha. Auto had not been hid for magnitude. His ginglymus
were pull away crosswise hand tells columella; his huge, visible guardianship grok the plaything-like
machine. Hat lose those bottom because he sit on projection. I meditate that he must have been
make into activity, i admired his coming up which no about know for commute. "Roadstead bad?" I inquire
the Element bang upset threshold. Wince-little. "what day should fulfil we come in?" I ask.
"thus'turn, suh," he is go me. It was hither eight 100 twenty-eight
knot and hr-- byway, eh?-- busyness.

He stir the recruit. Union. For kings so would be sufficient stern. I appear her down. Directorate
were flog two brine. It was merely evident that a dash-pot had extra lose or expect again. But she
was strike on four. Merely i peek as machmeter. It file the morning
and coming.

One babu was eventually parted in forepart reduce o'er happening or same bar. Beyond shrub, firmly,
dimension. Somewhat i hit that category.

One night, the tableland remain where they were; and in about were each vast shrub, compound, aa,
or sacatone underside, the schools, as one was in it, enough all
the universe, beginning; and misconception and the ensign of elevation.

 So the Apostle Paul, in his solitary reference to the Communion--which, indeed, is
an entirely incidental one, and evoked simply by the corruptions in the Corinthian Church,
emphasises this prophetic and onward-looking aspect of the backward-looking rite when he says,
'Ye do show the Lord's death till He come.'

Now, it seems to me that those of us who so strongly hold that the Communion is primarily a
simple memorial service, with no mysterious or magical efficacy of any sort about it, do rather
ignore in our ordinary thoughts the other aspect which is brought out in my text; and that
comparative ignoring seems to me to be but a part of a very lamentable and general tendency
of this day, whereby the prospect of a future life has become somewhat dimmed and does not
fill the place either in ordinary Christian thinking, or as a motive for Christian service
which the proportion of faith, and the relative importance of the present and the future suggest
that it ought to fill. The Christianity of this day has so much to do with the present life,
and the thought of the Gospel as a power in the present has been so emphasised, in legitimate
reaction from the opposite exaggeration, that there is great need, as I believe, to preach
to Christian people the wisdom of making more prominent in their faith their immortal hope.
I wish, then, to turn now to this aspect of the rite which we regard as a memorial, and try
to emphasise its forward-looking attitude, and the large blessed truths that emerge if we consider
that.

I. First, let me say just a word about the twin aspect of the Communion as a memorial prophecy,
or prophetic remembrance.

Now, I need not remind you, I suppose, that according to the view which, as I believe, the
New Testament takes, and which certainly we Nonconformists take, of all the rites of external
worship, every one of them is a prophecy, because every act in which our sense is brought in
to reinforce the spirit--and by outward forms, be they vocal, or be they manual, or be they
of any other sort, we try to express and to quicken spiritual emotions and intellectual convictions--declares
its own imperfection, digs its own grave, and prophecies its own resurrection in a nobler and
better fashion. Just because these outward symbols of bread and wine do, through the senses,
quicken the faith and the love of the spirit, they declare themselves to be transitory, and
they point onwards to the time when that which is perfect shall absorb, and so destroy, that
which is in part, and when sense shall be no longer necessary as the ally and humble servant
of spirit. 'I saw no temple therein.' Temples, and rites, and services, and holy days, and
all the external apparatus of worship, are but scaffolding, and just as the scaffolding round
a building is a prophecy of its own being pulled down when the building is reared and completed,
so we cannot partake of these external symbols rightly, unless we recognise their transiency,
and feel that they say to us, 'A mightier than I cometh after me, the latchet of whose shoe
I am not worthy to unloose.' The light that shines in the dark heralds the day and its own
extinction.

So, looking back we must look forward, and partaking of the symbol, we must reach out to the
time when the symbol shall be antiquated, the reality having come. The Passover of Israel did
not more truly point onwards to the true Lamb of Sacrifice, and to the true Passover that was
slain for us, and to its own elevation into the Lord's Supper of the Christian Church, than
the Lord's Supper of the Christian Church points onwards to the 'marriage supper of the Lamb,'
and its own cessation.

But then, again, let me remind you that this prophetic aspect is inherent in the memorial aspect
of the Communion, because what we remember necessarily demands the coming of what we hope.
That is to say, if Jesus Christ be what the Lord's Supper says that He is, and if He has done
what that broken bread and poured out wine proclaim, according to His own utterance, that He
has done, then clearly that death which was for the life of the world, that death which was
the seal of a covenant, that body broken for the remission of sins, that wine partaken of as
a reception into ourselves of the very life-blood of Jesus Christ, do all demand something
far nobler and more perfect than the broken, incomplete obedience and loyalties and communions
which Christian men here exercise and possess.

If He died, as the rite says that He did, and if dying He left such a commentary upon His act
as that ordinance affords, then He cannot have done with the world; then the powers that were
set in motion by His death cannot pause nor cease their action until they have reached their
appropriate culmination in effecting all that it was in them to effect. If, leaving His people,
He said to them, 'Never forget My death for you, My broken body, and My shed blood,' He therein
said that the time will come, must come, when all the powers of the Cross shall be incorporated
in humanity, and when the parted shall be reunited. The Communion would stand as the expression
of Christ's mistaken estimate of His own importance, if there were not beyond the grave the
perfecting of it, and the full appropriation and joyful possession of all which the death that
it signifies brought to mankind.

Therefore, dear brethren, it seems to me that the best way by which Christians can deepen their
confidence and brighten their hope in the perfect reunion and blessedness of the heavens, is
to increase the firmness of their faith in, and the depth of their apprehension of, the sacrifice
of the Cross. If the Cross demands the Crown, then our surest way to realise as certain our
own possession of that Crown is to cling very close to that Cross. The more we look backwards
to it the more will it fling its light into all the dark places that are in front of us, and
flush the heavens up to the seventh and beyond, with the glories that stream from it. Hold
fast by the Cross, and the more fully, believingly, joyously, unfalteringly, we recognise in
it the foundation of our salvation, the more gladly, clearly, operatively, shall we cherish
the hope that 'the headstone shall be brought forth with shoutings,' and that the imperfect
symbolical communion of earth will grow and greaten into complete and real union in eternal bliss.

Let me urge, then, this, that, as a matter of fact, a faith in eternal glory goes with and
fluctuates in the same degree and manner as does the faith in the past sacrifice that Christ
has made. He, and He alone, as I believe, turns nebulae into solidity, and makes of the more
or less tremulous anticipation of a more or less dim and distant future, a calm, still certainty.
We know that He will come because, and in proportion as, we believe that He has come. Keep
these two things, then, always together, the memory and the hope. They stand like two great
piers, one on either side of a narrow, dark glen, and suspended from them is stretched the
bridge, along which the happy pilgrims may travel and enter into rest.

II. And now, let us turn for a moment to the lovely vision of that future which is suggested
by our text.

The truest way, I was going to say the only way, by which we can have any conceptions of a
condition of being of which we have no experience, is to fall back upon the experiences which
we have, and use them as symbols and metaphors. The curtain is the picture. So our Lord here,
in accordance with the necessary limitations of our human knowledge, contents Himself with
using what lay at His hand, and taking it as giving faint shadows and metaphorical suggestions
as to spiritual blessedness yonder.

There is one other way, as it seems to me, by which we can in any measure body forth to ourselves
that unknown condition of things, and that is to fall back upon our present experiences in
another fashion, and negative all of them which involve pain and limitation and incompleteness.
There shall be no night--no sorrow--no tears--no sighing, and the like. These negatives of
the strong and stinging griefs and limitations of the present are perhaps our second-best way
of coming to some prophetic vision of that great future.

Remembering, then, that we are dealing with pure metaphor, and that the exact translation of
the metaphor into reality is not yet possible for us, let us take one or two very plain thoughts
out of this great saying--'Until I drink it new with you in My Father's kingdom.'

Then, we have to think of the completion of the Christian life beyond, which is also the completion
of the results of Christ's death on the Cross, as being, according to the very frequent metaphor
both of the Old and the New Testament, a prolonged festival. I do not need to speak of the
details of the thoughts that thence emerge. Let me sum them up as briefly as may be. They include
the satisfaction of every desire and the nourishment of all strength, and food for every faculty.
When we think of the hungry hearts that all men carry, and how true it is that even the wisest
and the holiest of us are 'spending our money for that which is not bread, and our labour for
that which satisfieth not'; when we think of how the choicest foods that life can provide,
even for the noblest hunger of noble hearts, are too often to us but as a feeding on ashes
that will leave grit between the teeth and a foul taste upon the palate, surely it is blessed
to think that we may, after all life's disappointments, cherish the hope of a perfect fruition,
and that yonder, if not here, it will be fully true that 'God never sends mouths but He sends
meat to feed them.' That is not so in this world, for we all carry hungers which impel us forward
to nobler living, and which it would not be good for us to have satisfied here. But, unless
the whole universe is a godless chaos, there must be somewhere a state in which a man shall
have all that he wants, and shall want only what he ought.

The emblem of a feast suggests also society. The solitary travellers who have been toiling
and moiling through the desert all the day long, snatching up a hasty mouthful as they march,
and lonely many a time, come together at last, and sit together there joyous and united. Deep
down in our hearts some of us have gashes that always bleed. We know losses and loneliness,
and we can feel, I hope, how blessed is the thought that all the wanderers shall sit there
together, and rejoice in each other's communion, 'and so shall we ever be with the Lord.'

But besides satisfaction and society the figure suggests repose. But for many of us--I suppose
for all of us elderly people--who are about weary of work and worry, there is no deeper hope
than the hope of rest. 'I have had labour enough for one,' says one of our poets. And I think
there is something in most of our hearts that echoes that and rejoices to hear that, after
the long march, 'ye shall sit with Me at My table.'

But besides satisfaction, society, and rest, the figure suggests gladness. Wine is the emblem
of the joyous side of a feast, just as bread is the emblem of the necessary nourishment. And
it is new wine; joy raised to a higher power, transformed and glorified; and yet the old emotion
in a new form.

These four things, brethren--satisfaction, society, rest, new gladness--are proclaimed and
prophesied to each of us, if we will, by this memorial rite.

Again, there comes from this aspect of the Communion the thought that the blessed condition
of the Christian soul hereafter is a feast on a sacrifice. We must distinguish between the
sense in which our Lord drinks with us, and the sense in which we alone partake of that feast
of which He provides the viands. But just as in the symbolic ordinance of the Communion the
very essence of it is that what was offered as sacrifice is now incorporated into the participant's
spiritual being, and becomes part of himself, and the life of his life, so, in the future,
all the blessedness of the clustered and constellated joys of that life, which is one eternal
festival, shall arise from the reception into perfected spirits with ever-growing greatness
and blessedness of the Christ that died and ever lives for them. That heavenly glory, to its
highest pinnacle of aspiration, to its most rapt completeness of gladness, is all the consequence
of Christ's death on the Cross. That death, which we commemorate, is the procuring cause of
man's entrance into bliss, and that death is the subject of the continual, grateful remembrance
of the saints in the seventh heaven of their glory. Life yonder, as all true life here, consists
in taking into ourselves the life of Jesus Christ, and the law for heaven is the same as the
law for earth, 'He that eateth Me, even he shall live by Me.'

Lastly, the conception of the future for Christian souls arising from this aspect of the Lord's
Supper is that it is not only a feast, and a feast on a sacrifice, but that it is a feast with
the King.

'With you I will drink it.' Brethren, we pass beyond metaphor when we gather up and condense
all the vague brightness and glories of that perfect future into this one rapturous, overwhelming,
all-embracing thought: 'So shall we ever be with the Lord.' I could almost wish that Christian
people had no other thought of that future than this, for surely in its grand simplicity, in
its ineffable depth, there lie the germs of every blessedness. How poor all the material emblems
are of which sensuous imaginations make so much, when compared with that hope! As the good
old hymn has it, which to me says more, in its bold simplicity, than all the sentimental enlargements
of Scriptural metaphors which some people admire so much--

  'It is enough that Christ knows all,
   And I shall be with Him.'

Strange that He says, 'I will drink it with you.' Does He
need sustenance? Does He need any external things in order to make
His feast? No! and Yes! 'I will sup with Him' as well as 'He with
me.' And, surely, His meat and drink are the love, the loyalty, the
obedience, the receptiveness, the society of His redeemed children.
'The joy of the Lord' comes from 'seeing of the travail of His
soul,' and His servants do enter into that joy in deep and wondrous
fashion. We not only shall live on Christ, but He Himself puts to
His own lips the chalice that He commends to ours, and in marvellous
condescension to, and identity with, our glorified humanity drinks
with us the 'new wine' in the Father's kingdom. And He took with Him
    Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be
    sorrowful and very heavy. 38. 39. 40. And
    He cometh unto the disciples, and findeth them asleep,
    and saith unto Peter, What, could ye not watch with Me
    one hour! 41.
    43.
    45. 46. Rise, let us be going: behold,
    he is at hand that doth betray Me.'--MATT. xxvi. 36-46.

One shrinks from touching this incomparable picture of unexampled sorrow, for fear lest one's
finger-marks should stain it. There is no place here for picturesque description, which tries
to mend the gospel stories by dressing them in to-day's fashions, nor for theological systematisers
and analysers of the sort that would 'botanise upon their mother's grave.' We must put off
our shoes, and feel that we stand on holy ground. Though loving eyes saw something of Christ's
agony, He did not let them come beside Him, but withdrew into the shadow of the gnarled olives,
as if even the moonbeams must not look too closely on the mystery of such grief. We may go
as near as love was allowed to go, but stop where it was stayed, while we reverently and adoringly
listen to what the Evangelist tells us of that unspeakable hour.

I. Mark the 'exceeding sorrow' of the Man of Sorrows. Somewhere on the western foot of Olivet
lay the garden, named from an oil-press formerly or then in it, which was to be the scene of
the holiest and sorest sorrow on which the moon, that has seen so much misery, has ever looked.
Truly it was 'an oil-press,' in which 'the good olive' was crushed by the grip of unparalleled
agony, and yielded precious oil, which has been poured into many a wound since then. Eight
of the eleven are left at or near the entrance, while He passes deeper into the shadows with
the three. They had been witnesses of His prayers once before, on the slopes of Hermon, when
He was transfigured before them. They are now to see a no less wonderful revelation of His
glory in His filial submission. There is something remarkable in Matthew's expression, 'He
began to be sorrowful,'--as if a sudden wave of emotion, breaking over His soul, had swept
His human sensibilities before it. The strange word translated by the Revisers 'sore troubled'
is of uncertain derivation, and may possibly be simply intended to intensify the idea of sorrow;
but more probably it adds another element, which Bishop Lightfoot describes as 'the confused,
restless, half-distracted state which is produced by physical derangement or mental distress.'
A storm of agitation and bewilderment broke His calm, and forced from His patient lips, little
wont to speak of His own emotions, or to seek for sympathy, the unutterably pathetic cry, 'My
soul is exceeding sorrowful'--compassed about with sorrow, as the word means--'even unto death.'
No feeble explanation of these words does justice to the abyss of woe into which they let us
dimly look. They tell the fact, that, a little more and the body would have sunk under the
burden. He knew the limits of human endurance, for 'all things were made by Him,' and, knowing
it, He saw that He had grazed the very edge. Out of the darkness He reaches a hand to feel
for the grasp of a friend, and piteously asks these humble lovers to stay beside Him, not that
they could help Him to bear the weight, but that their presence had some solace in it. His
agony must be endured alone, therefore He bade them tarry there; but He desired to have them
at hand, therefore He went but 'a little forward.' They could not bear it with Him, but they
could 'watch with' Him, and that poor comfort is all He asks. No word came from them. They
were, no doubt, awed into silence, as the truest sympathy is used to be, in the presence of
a great grief. Is it permitted us to ask what were the fountains of these bitter floods that
swept over Christ's sinless soul? Was the mere physical shrinking from death all? If so, we
may reverently say that many a maiden and old man, who drew all their fortitude from Jesus,
have gone to stake or gibbet for His sake, with a calm which contrasts strangely with His agitation.
Gethsemane is robbed of its pathos and nobleness if that be all. But it was not all. Rather
it was the least bitter of the components of the cup. What lay before Him was not merely death,
but the death which was to atone for a world's sin, and in which, therefore, the whole weight
of sin's consequences was concentrated. 'The Lord hath made to meet on Him the iniquities of
us all'; that is the one sufficient explanation of this infinitely solemn and tender scene.
Unless we believe that, we shall find it hard to reconcile His agitation in Gethsemane with
the perfection of His character as the captain of 'the noble army of martyrs.'

II. Note the prayer of filial submission. Matthew does not tell us of the sweat falling audibly
and heavily, and sounding to the three like slow blood-drops from a wound, nor of the strengthening
angel, but he gives us the prostrate form, and the threefold prayer, renewed as each moment
of calm, won by it, was again broken in upon by a fresh wave of emotion. Thrice He had to leave
the disciples, and came back, a calm conqueror; and twice the enemy rallied and returned to
the assault, and was at last driven finally from the field by the power of prayer and submission.
The three Synoptics differ in their report of our Lord's words, but all mean the same thing
in substance; and it is obvious that much more must have been spoken than they report. Possibly
what we have is only the fragments that reached the three before they fell asleep. In any case,
Jesus was absent from them on each occasion long enough to allow of their doing so.

Three elements are distinguishable in our Lord's prayer. There is, first, the sense of Sonship,
which underlies all, and was never more clear than at that awful moment. Then there is the
recoil from 'the cup,' which natural instinct could not but feel, though sinlessly. The flesh
shrank from the Cross, which else had been no suffering; and if no suffering, then had been
no atonement. His manhood would not have been like ours, nor His sorrows our pattern, if He
had not thus drawn back, in His sensitive humanity, from the awful prospect now so near. But
natural instinct is one thing, and the controlling will another. However currents may have
tossed the vessel, the firm hand at the helm never suffered them to change her course. The
will, which in this prayer He seems so strangely to separate from the Father's, even in the
act of submission, was the will which wishes, not that which resolves. His fixed purpose to
die for the world's sin never wavered. The shrinking does not reach the point of absolutely
and unconditionally asking that the cup might pass. Even in the act of uttering the wish, it
is limited by that 'if it be possible,' which can only mean--possible, in view of the great
purpose for which He came. That is to be accomplished, at any cost; and unless it can be accomplished
though the cup be withdrawn, He does not even wish, much less will, that it should be withdrawn.
So, the third element in the prayer is the utter resignation to the Father's will, in which
submission He found peace, as we do.

He prayed His way to perfect calm, which is ever the companion of perfect self-surrender to
God. They who cease from their own works do 'enter into rest.' All the agitations which had
come storming in massed battalions against Him are defeated by it. They have failed to shake
His purpose, they now fail even to disturb His peace. So, victorious from the dreadful conflict,
and at leisure of heart to care for others, He can go back to the disciples. But even whilst
seeking to help them, a fresh wave of suffering breaks in on His calm, and once again He leaves
them to renew the struggle. The instinctive shrinking reasserts itself, and, though overcome,
is not eradicated. But the second prayer is yet more rooted in acquiescence than the first.
It shows that He had not lost what He had won by the former; for it, as it were, builds on
that first supplication, and accepts as answer to its contingent petition the consciousness,
accompanying the calm, that it was not possible for the cup to pass from Him. The sense of
Sonship underlies the complete resignation of the second prayer as of the first. It has no
wish but God's will, and is the voluntary offering of Himself. Here He is both Priest and Sacrifice,
and offers the victim with this prayer of consecration. So once more He triumphs, because once
more, and yet more completely, He submits, and accepts the Cross. For Him, as for us, the Cross
accepted ceases to be a pain, and the cup is no more bitter when we are content to drink it.
Once more in fainter fashion the enemy came on, casting again his spent arrows, and beaten
back by the same weapon. The words were the same, because no others could have expressed more
perfectly the submission which was the heart of His prayers and the condition of His victory.

Christ's prayer, then, was not for the passing of the cup, but that the will of God might be
done in and by Him, and 'He was heard in that He feared,' not by being exempted from the Cross,
but by being strengthened through submission for submission. So His agony is the pattern of
all true prayer, which must ever deal with our wishes, as He did with His instinctive shrinking,--present
them wrapped in an 'if it be possible,' and followed by a 'nevertheless.' The meaning of prayer
is not to force our wills on God's, but to bend our wills to His; and that prayer is really
answered of which the issue is our calm readiness for all that He lays upon us.

III. Note the sad and gentle remonstrance with the drowsy three. 'The sleep of the disciples,
and of these disciples, and of all three, and such an overpowering sleep, remains even after
Luke's explanation, "for sorrow," a psychological riddle' (Meyer). It is singularly parallel
with the sleep of the same three at the Transfiguration--an event which presents the opposite
pole of our Lord's experiences, and yields so many antithetical parallels to Gethsemane. No
doubt the tension of emotion, which had lasted for many hours, had worn them out; but, if weariness
had weighed down their eyelids, love should have kept them open. Such sleep of such disciples
may have been a riddle, but it was also a crime, and augured imperfect sympathy. Gentle surprise
and the pain of disappointed love are audible in the question, addressed to Peter especially,
as he had promised so much, but meant for all. This was all that Jesus got in answer to His
yearning for sympathy. 'I looked for some to take pity, but there was none.' Those who loved
Him most lay curled in dead slumber within earshot of His prayers. If ever a soul tasted the
desolation of utter loneliness, that suppliant beneath the olives tasted it. But how little
of the pain escapes His lips! The words but hint at the slightness of their task compared with
His, at the brevity of the strain on their love, and at the companionship which ought to have
made sleep impossible. May we not see in Christ's remonstrance a word for all? For us, too,
the task of keeping awake in the enchanted ground is light, measured against His, and the time
is short, and we have Him to keep us company in the watch, and every motive of grateful love
should make it easy; but, alas, how many of us sleep a drugged and heavy slumber!

The gentle remonstrance soon passes over into counsel as gentle. Watchfulness and prayer are
inseparable. The one discerns dangers, the other arms against them. Watchfulness keeps us prayerful,
and prayerfulness keeps us watchful. To watch without praying is presumption, to pray without
watching is hypocrisy. The eye that sees clearly the facts of life will turn upwards from its
scanning of the snares and traps, and will not look in vain. These two are the indispensable
conditions of victorious encountering of temptation. Fortified by them, we shall not 'enter
into' it, though we encounter it. The outward trial will remain, but its power to lead us astray
will vanish. It will still be danger or sorrow, but it will not be temptation; and we shall
pass through it, as a sunbeam through foul air, untainted, and keeping heaven's radiance. That
is a lesson for a wider circle than the sleepy three.

It is followed by words which would need a volume to expound in all their depth and width of
application, but which are primarily a reason for the preceding counsel, as well as a loving
apology for the disciples' sleep. Christ is always glad to give us credit for even imperfect
good; His eye, which sees deeper than ours, sees more lovingly, and is not hindered from marking
the willing spirit by recognising weak flesh. But these words are not to be made a pillow for
indolent acquiescence in the limitations which the flesh imposes on the spirit. He may take
merciful count of these, and so may we, in judging others, but it is fatal to plead them at
the bar of our own consciences. Rather they should be a spur to our watchfulness and to our
prayer. We need these because the flesh is weak, still more because, in its weakness toward
good, it is strong to evil. Such exercise will give governing power to the spirit, and enable
it to impose its will on the reluctant flesh. If we watch and pray, the conflict between these
two elements in the renewed nature will tend to unity and peace by the supremacy of the spirit;
if we do not, it will tend to cease by the unquestioned tyranny of the flesh. In one or other
direction our lives are tending.

Strange that such words had no effect. But so it was, and so deep was the apostles' sleep that
Christ left them undisturbed the second time. The relapse is worse than the original disease.
Sleep broken and resumed is more torpid and fatal than if it had not been interrupted. We do
not know how long it lasted, though the whole period in the garden must have been measured
by hours; but at last it was broken by the enigmatical last words of our Lord. The explanation
of the direct opposition between the consecutive sentences, by taking the 'Sleep on now' as
ironical, jars on one's reverence. Surely irony is out of keeping with the spirit of Christ
then. Rather He bids them sleep on, since the hour is come, in sad recognition that the need
for their watchful sympathy is past, and with it the opportunity for their proved affection.
It is said with a tone of contemplative melancholy, and is almost equivalent to 'too late,
too late.' The memorable sermon of F. W. Robertson, on this text, rightly grasps the spirit
of the first clause, when it dwells with such power on the thought of 'the irrevocable past'
of wasted opportunities and neglected duty. But the sudden transition to the sharp, short command
and broken sentences of the last verse is to be accounted for by the sudden appearance of the
flashing lights of the band led by Judas, somewhere near at hand, in the valley. The mood of
pensive reflection gives place to rapid decision. He summons them to arise, not for flight,
but that He may go out to meet the traitor. Escape would have been easy. There was time to
reach some sheltering fold of the hill in the darkness; but the prayer beneath the silver-grey
olives had not been in vain, and these last words in Gethsemane throb with the Son's willingness
to yield Himself up, and to empty to its dregs the cup which the Father had given Him.

THE LAST PLEADING OF LOVE

    'And Jesus said unto him, Friend, wherefore art thou
    come?'--MATT. xxvi. 50.

We are accustomed to think of the betrayer of our Lord as a kind of monster, whose crime is
so mysterious in its atrocity as to put him beyond the pale of human sympathy. The awful picture
which the great Italian poet draws of him as alone in hell, shunned even there, as guilty beyond
all others, expresses the general feeling about him. And even the attempts which have been
made to diminish the greatness of his guilt, by supposing that his motive was only to precipitate
Christ's assumption of His conquering Messianic power, are prompted by the same thought that
such treason as his is all but inconceivable. I cannot but think that these attempts fail,
and that the narratives of the Gospels oblige us to think of his crime as deliberate treachery.
But even when so regarded, other emotions than wondering loathing should be excited by the
awful story.

There had been nothing in his previous history to suggest such sin, as is proved by the disciples'
question, when our Lord announced that one of them should betray Him. No suspicion lighted
on him--no finger pointed to where he sat. But self-distrust asked, 'Lord, is it I?' and only
love, pillowed on the Master's breast, and strong in the happy sense of His love, was sufficiently
assured of its own constancy, to change the question into 'Lord! who is it?' The process of
corruption was unseen by all eyes but Christ's. He came to his terrible pre-eminence in crime
by slow degrees, and by paths which we may all tread. As for his guilt, that is in other hands
than ours. As for his fate, let us copy the solemn and pitying reticence of Peter, and say,
'that he might go to his own place'--the place that belongs to him, and that he is fit for,
wherever that may be. As for the growth and development of his sin, let us remember that 'we
have all of us one human heart,' and that the possibilities of crime as dark are in us all.
And instead of shuddering abhorrence at a sin that can scarcely be understood, and can never
be repeated, let us be sure that whatever man has done, man may do, and ask with humble consciousness
of our own deceitful hearts, 'Lord, is it I?'

These remarkable and solemn words of Christ, with which He meets the treacherous kiss, appear
to be a last appeal to Judas. They may possibly not be a question, as in our version--but an
incomplete sentence, 'What thou hast come to do'--leaving the implied command, 'That do,' unexpressed.
They would then be very like other words which the betrayer had heard but an hour or two before,
'That thou doest, do quickly.' But such a rendering does not seem so appropriate to the circumstances
as that which makes them a question, smiting on his heart and conscience, and seeking to tear
away the veil of sophistications with which he had draped from his own eyes the hideous shape
of his crime. And, if so, what a wonderful instance we have here of that long-suffering love.
They are the last effort of the divine patience to win back even the traitor. They show us
the wrestle between infinite mercy and a treacherous, sinful heart, and they bring into awful
prominence the power which that heart has of rejecting the counsel of God against itself. I
venture to use them now as suggesting these three things: the patience of Christ's love; the
pleading of Christ's love; and the refusal of Christ's love.

I. The patience of Christ's love.

If we take no higher view of this most pathetic incident than that the words come from a man's
lips, even then all its beauty will not be lost. There are some sins against friendship in
which the manner is harder to bear than the substance of the evil. It must have been a strangely
mean and dastardly nature, as well as a coarse and cold one, that could think of fixing on
the kiss of affection as the concerted sign to point out their victim to the legionaries. Many
a man who could have planned and executed the treason would have shrunk from that. And many
a man who could have borne to be betrayed by his own familiar friend would have found that
heartless insult worse to endure than the treason itself. But what a picture of perfect patience
and unruffled calm we have here, in that the answer to the poisonous, hypocritical embrace
was these moving words! The touch of the traitor's lips has barely left His cheek, but not
one faint passing flush of anger tinges it. He is perfectly self-oblivious--absorbed in other
thoughts, and among them in pity for the guilty wretch before Him. His words have no agitation
in them, no instinctive recoil from the pollution of such a salutation. They have grave rebuke,
but it is rebuke which derives its very force from the appeal to former companionship. Christ
still recognises the ancient bond, and is true to it. He will still plead with this man who
has been beside Him long; and though His heart be wounded yet He is not wroth, and He will
not cast him off. If this were nothing more than a picture of human friendship it would stand
alone, above all other records that the world cherishes in its inmost heart, of the love that
never fails, and is not soon angry.

But we, I hope, dear brethren, think more loftily and more truly of our dear Lord than as simply
a perfect manhood, the exemplar of all goodness. How He comes to be that, if He be not more
than that, I do not understand, and I, for one, feel that my confidence in the flawless completeness
of His human character lives or dies with my belief that He is the Eternal Word, God manifest
in the flesh. Certainly we shall never truly grasp the blessed meaning of His life on earth
until we look upon it all as the revelation of God. The tears of Christ are the pity of God.
The gentleness of Jesus is the long-suffering of God. The tenderness of Jesus is the love of
God. 'He that hath seen Me hath seen the Father'; and all that life so beautiful but so anomalous
as to be all but incredible, when we think of it as only the life of a man, glows with a yet
fairer beauty, and corresponds with the nature which it expresses, when we think of it as being
the declaration to us by the divine Son of the divine Father--our loftiest, clearest, and authentic
revelation of God.

How that thought lifts these words before us into a still higher region! We are now in the
presence of the solemn greatness of a divine love. If the meaning of this saying is what we
have suggested, it is pathetic even in the lower aspect, but how infinitely that pathos is
deepened when we view it in the higher!

Surely if ever there was a man who might have been supposed to be excluded from the love of
God, it was Judas. Surely if ever there was a moment in a human life, when one might have supposed
that even Christ's ever open heart would shut itself together against any one, it was this
moment. But no, the betrayer in the very instant of his treason has that changeless tenderness
lingering around him, and that merciful hand beckoning to him still.

And have we not a right to generalise this wonderful fact, and to declare its teaching to be--that
the love of God is extended to us all, and cannot be made to turn away from us by any sins
of ours? Sin is mighty; it can work endless evils on us; it can disturb and embitter all our
relations with God; it can, as we shall presently have to point out, make it necessary for
the tenderest 'grace of God to come disciplining'--to 'come with a rod,' just because it comes
in 'the spirit of meekness.' But one thing it cannot do, and that is--make God cease to love
us. I suppose all human affection can be worn out by constant failure to evoke a response from
cold hearts. I suppose that it can be so nipped by frosts, so constantly checked in blossoming,
that it shrivels and dies. I suppose that constant ingratitude, constant indifference can turn
the warmest springs of our love to a river of ice. 'Can a mother forget her child?--Yea, she
may forget.' But we have to do with a God, whose love is His very being; who loves us not for
reasons in us but in Himself; whose love is eternal and boundless as all His nature; whose
love, therefore, cannot be turned away by our sin--but abides with us for ever, and is granted
to every soul of man. Dear brethren, we cannot believe too firmly, we cannot trust too absolutely,
we cannot proclaim too broadly that blessed thought, without which we have no hope to feed
on for ourselves, or to share with our fellows--the universal love of God in Christ.

Is there a worst man on earth at this moment? If there be, he, too, has a share in that love.
Harlots and thieves, publicans and sinners, leprous outcasts, and souls tormented by unclean
spirits, the wrecks of humanity whom decent society and respectable Christianity passes by
with averted head and uplifted hands, criminals on the gibbet with the rope round their necks--and
those who are as hopeless as any of these, self-complacent formalists and 'Gospel-hardened
professors'--all have a place in that heart. And that, not as undistinguished members of a
class, but as separate souls, singly the objects of God's knowledge and love. He loves all,
because He loves each. We are not massed together in His view, nor in His regard. He does not
lose the details in the whole; as we, looking on some great crowd of upturned faces, are conscious
of all but recognise no single one. He does not love a class--a world--but He loves the single
souls that make it up--you and me, and every one of the millions that we throw together in
the vague phrase, 'the race.' Let us individualise that love in our thoughts as it individualises
us in its outflow--and make our own the 'exceeding broad' promises, which include us, too.
'God loves me; Christ gave Himself for me. I have a place in that royal, tender heart.'

Nor should any sin make us doubt this. He loved us with exceeding love, even when we were 'dead
in trespasses.' He did not begin to love because of anything in us; He will not cease because
of anything in us. We change; 'He abideth faithful, He cannot deny Himself.' As the sunshine
pours down as willingly and abundantly on filth and dunghills, as on gold that glitters in
its beam, and jewels that flash back its lustre, so the light and warmth of that unsetting
and unexhausted source of life pours down 'on the unthankful and on the good.' The great ocean
clasps some black and barren crag that frowns against it, as closely as with its waves it kisses
some fair strand enamelled with flowers and fragrant with perfumes. So that sea of love in
which we 'live, and move, and have our being,' encircles the worst with abundant flow. He Himself
sets us the pattern, which to imitate is to be the children of 'our Father which is in heaven,'
in that He loves His enemies, blessing them that curse, and doing good to them that hate. He
Himself is what He has enjoined us to be, in that He feeds His enemies when they hunger, and
when they thirst gives them drink, heaping coals of fire on their heads, and seeking to kindle
in them thereby the glow of answering love, not being overcome of their evil, so that He repays
hate with hate and scorn with scorn, but in patient continuance of loving kindness seeking
to overcome evil with good. He is Himself that 'charity' which 'is not easily provoked, is
not soon angry, beareth all things, hopeth all things, and never faileth.' His love is mightier
than all our sins, and waits not on our merits, nor is turned away by our iniquities. Then,
secondly, we have here--the pleading of Christ's patient love.

I have been trying to say as broadly and strongly as I can, that our sins do not turn away
the love of God in Christ from us. The more earnestly we believe and proclaim that, the more
needful is it to set forth distinctly--and that not as limiting, but as explaining the truth--the
other thought, that the sin which does not avert, does modify the expression of, the love of
God. Man's sin compels Him to do what the prophet calls his 'strange work'--the work which
is not dear to His heart, nor natural, if one may so say, to His hands--His work of judgment.

The love of Christ has to come to sinful men with patient pleading and remonstrance, that it
may enter their hearts and give its blessings. We are familiar with a modern work of art in
which that long-suffering appeal is wonderfully portrayed. He who is the Light of the world
stands, girded with the royal mantle clasped with the priestly breastplate, bearing in His
hand the lamp of truth, and there, amidst the dew of night and the rank hemlock, He pleads
for entrance at the closed door which has no handle on its outer side, and is hinged to open
only from within. 'I stand at the door and knock. If any man open the door, I will come in.'

And in this incident before us, we see represented not only the endless patience of God's pitying
love, but the method which it needs to take in order to reach the heart.

There is an appeal to the traitor's heart, and an appeal to his conscience. Christ would have
him think of the relations that have so long subsisted between them; and He would have him
think, too, of the real nature of the deed he is doing, or, perhaps, of the motives that impel
him. The grave, sad word, by which He addresses him, is meant to smite upon his heart. The
sharp question which He puts to him is meant to wake up his conscience; and both taken together
represent the two chief classes of remonstrance which He brings to bear upon us all--the two
great batteries from which He assails the fortress of our sins.

There is first, then--Christ's appeal to the heart. He tries to make Judas feel the considerations
that should restrain him. The appellation by which our Lord addresses him does not in the original
convey quite so strongly the idea of amity, as our word 'Friend' does. It is not the same as
that which He had used a few hours before in the upper chamber, when He said, 'Henceforth I
call you not servants, but I have called you friends.--Ye are My friends if ye do whatsoever
I command you.' It is the same as is put into the lips of the Lord of the vineyard, remonstrating
with his jealous labourer, 'Friend, I do thee no wrong.' There is a tone, then, of less intimate
association and graver rebuke in it than in that name with which He honours those who make
His will theirs, and His word the law of their lives. It does not speak of close confidence,
but it does suggest companionship and kindness on the part of the speaker. There is rebuke
in it, but it is rebuke which derives its whole force from the remembrance of ancient concord
and connection. Our Lord would recall to the memory of the betrayer the days in which they
had taken sweet counsel together. It is as if He had said--'Hast thou forgotten all our former
intercourse? Thou hast eaten My bread, thou hast been Mine own familiar friend, in whom I trusted--canst
thou lift up thy heel against Me?' What happy hours of quiet fellowship on many a journey,
of rest together after many a day of toil, what forgotten thoughts of the loving devotion and
the glow of glad consecration that he had once felt, what a long series of proofs of Christ's
gentle goodness and meek wisdom should have sprung again to remembrance at such an appeal!
And how black and dastardly would his guilt have seemed if once he had ventured to remember
what unexampled friendship he was sinning against!

Is it not so with us all, dear brethren? All our evils are betrayals of Christ, and all our
betrayals of Christ are sins against a perfect friendship and an unvaried goodness. We, too,
have sat at His table, heard His wisdom, seen His miracles, listened to His pleadings, have
had a place in His heart; and if we turn away from Him to do our own pleasure, and sell His
love for a handful of silver, we need not cherish shuddering abhorrence against that poor wretch
who gave Him up to the cross. Oh! if we could see aright, we should see our Saviour's meek,
sad face standing between us and each of our sins, with warning in the pitying eyes, and His
pleading voice would sound in our ears, appealing to us by loving remembrances of His ancient
friendship, to turn from the evil which is treason against Him, and wounds His heart as much
as it harms ours. Take heed lest in condemning the traitor we doom ourselves. If we flush into
anger at the meanness of his crime, and declare, 'He shall surely die,' do we not hear a prophet's
voice saying to each, 'Thou art the man'?

The loving hand laid on the heart-strings is followed by a strong stroke on conscience. The
heart vibrates most readily in answer to gentle touches: the conscience, in answer to heavier,
as the breath that wakes the chords of an Aeolian harp would pass silent through the brass
of a trumpet. 'Wherefore art thou come?'--if to be taken as a question at all, which, as I
have said, seems most natural, is either, 'What hast thou come to do?'--or, 'Why hast thou
come to do it?' Perhaps it maybe fairly taken as including both. But, at all events, it is
clearly an appeal to Judas to make him see what his conduct really is in itself, and possibly
in its motive too. And this is the constant effort of the love of Christ--to get us to say
to ourselves the real name of what we are about.

We cloak our sins from ourselves with many wrappings, as they swathe a mummy in voluminous
folds. And of these veils, one of the thickest is woven by our misuse of words to describe
the very same thing by different names, according as we do it, or another man does it. Almost
all moral actions--the thing to which we can apply the words right or wrong--have two or more
names, of which the one suggests the better and the other the worse side of the action. For
instance what in ourselves we call prudent regard for our own interest, we call, in our neighbour,
narrow selfishness; what in ourselves is laudable economy, in him is miserable avarice. We
are impetuous, he is passionate; we generous, he lavish; we are clever men of business, he
is a rogue; we sow our wild oats and are gay, he is dissipated. So we cheat ourselves by more
than half-transparent veils of our own manufacture, which we fling round the ugly features
and misshapen limbs of these sins of ours, and we are made more than ever their bond-slaves
thereby.

Therefore, it is the office of the truest love to force us to look at the thing as it is. It
would go some way to keep a man from some of his sins if he would give the thing its real name.
A distinct conscious statement to oneself, 'Now I am going to tell a lie'--'This that I am
doing is fraud'--'This emotion that I feel creeping with devilish warmth about the roots of
my heart is revenge'--and so on, would surely startle us sometimes, and make us fling the gliding
poison from our breast, as a man would a snake that he found just lifting its head from the
bosom of his robe. Suppose Judas had answered the question, and, gathering himself up, had
looked his Master in the face, and said--'What have I come for?' 'I have come to betray Thee
for thirty pieces of silver!' Do you not think that putting his guilt into words might have
moved even him to more salutary feelings than the remorse which afterwards accompanied his
tardy discernment of what he had done? So the patient love of Christ comes rebuking, and smiting
hard on conscience. 'The grace of God that bringeth salvation to all men hath appeared disciplining'--and
His hand is never more gentle than when it plucks away the films with which we hide our sins
from ourselves, and shows us the 'rottenness and dead men's bones' beneath the whited walls
of the sepulchres and the velvet of the coffins.

He must begin with rebukes that He may advance to blessing. He must teach us what is separating
us from Him that, learning it, we may flee to His grace to help us. There is no entrance for
the truest gifts of His patient love into any heart that has not yielded to His pleading remonstrance,
and in lowly penitence has answered His question as He would have us answer it, 'Friend and
Lover of my soul, I have sinned against Thy tender heart, against the unexampled patience of
Thy love. I have departed from Thee and betrayed Thee. Blessed be Thy merciful voice which
hath taught me what I have done! Blessed be Thine unwearied goodness which still bends over
me! Raise me fallen! forgive me treacherous! Keep me safe and happy, ever true and near to Thee!'

III. Notice the possible rejection of the pleading of Christ's patient love.

Even that appeal was vain. Here we are confronted with a plain instance of man's mysterious
and awful power of 'frustrating the counsel of God'--of which one knows not whether is greater,
the difficulty of understanding how a finite will can rear itself against the Infinite Will,
or the mournful mystery that a creature should desire to set itself against its loving Maker
and Benefactor. But strange as it is, yet so it is; and we can turn round upon Sovereign Fatherhood
bidding us to its service, and say, 'I will not.' He pleads with us, and we can resist His
pleadings. He holds out the mercies of His hands and the gifts of His grace, and we can reject
them. We cannot cease to be the objects of His love, but we can refuse to be the recipients
of its most precious gifts. We can bar our hearts against it. Then, of what avail is it to
us? To go back to an earlier illustration, the sunshine pours down and floods a world, what
does that matter to us if we have fastened up shutters on all our windows, and barred every
crevice through which the streaming gladness can find its way? We shall grope at noontide as
in the dark within our gloomy house, while our neighbours have light in theirs. What matters
it though we float in the great ocean of the divine love, if with pitch and canvas we have
carefully closed every aperture at which the flood can enter? A hermetically closed jar, plunged
in the Atlantic, will be as dry inside as if it were lying on the sand of the desert. It is
possible to perish of thirst within sight of the fountain. It is possible to separate ourselves
from the love of God, not to separate the love of God from ourselves.

The incident before us carries another solemn lesson--how simple and easy a thing it is to
repel that pleading love. What did Judas do? Nothing; it was enough. He merely held his peace--no
more. There was no need for him to break out with oaths and curses, to reject his Lord with
wild words. Silence was sufficient. And for us--no more is required. We have but to be passive;
we have but to stand still. Not to accept is to refuse; non-submission is rebellion. We do
not need to emphasise our refusal by any action--no need to lift our clenched hands in defiance.
We have simply to put them behind our backs or to keep them folded. The closed hand must remain
an empty hand. 'He that believeth not is condemned.' My friend, remember that, when Christ
pleads and draws, to do nothing is to oppose, and to delay is to refuse. It is a very easy
matter to ruin your soul. You have simply to keep still when He says 'Come unto Me'--to keep
your eyes fixed where they were, when He says, 'Look unto Me, and be ye saved,' and all the
rest will follow of itself.

Notice, too, how the appeal of Christ's love hardens where it does not soften. That gentle
voice drove the traitor nearer the verge over which he fell into a gulf of despair. It should
have drawn him closer to the Lord, but he recoiled from it, and was thereby brought nearer
destruction. Every pleading of Christ's grace, whether by providences, or by books, or by His
own word, does something with us. It is never vain. Either it melts or it hardens. The sun
either scatters the summer morning mists, or it rolls them into heavier folds, from whose livid
depths the lightning will be flashing by mid-day. You cannot come near the most inadequate
exhibition of the pardoning love of Christ without being either drawn closer to Him or driven
further from Him. Each act of rejection prepares the way for another, which will be easier,
and adds another film to the darkness which covers your eyes, another layer to the hardness
which incrusts your hearts.

Again, that silence, so eloquent and potent in its influence, was probably the silence of a
man whose conscience was convicted while his will was unchanged. Such a condition is possible.
It points to solemn thoughts, and to deep mysteries in man's awful nature. He knew that he
was wrong, he had no excuse, his deed was before him in some measure in its true character,
and yet he would not give it up. Such a state, if constant and complete, presents the most
frightful picture we can frame of a soul. That a man shall not be able to say, 'I did it ignorantly';
that Christ shall not be able to ground His intercession on, 'They know not what they do';
that with full knowledge of the true nature of the deed, there shall be no wavering of the
determination to do it--we may well turn with terror from such an awful abyss. But let us remember
that, whether such a condition in its completeness is conceivable or not, at all events we
may approach it indefinitely; and we do approach it by every sin, and by every refusal to yield
to the love that would touch our consciences and fill our hearts.

Have you ever noticed what a remarkable verbal correspondence there is between these words
of our text, and some other very solemn ones of Christ's? The question that He puts into the
lips of the king who came in to see his guests is, 'Friend, how camest thou in hither, not
having on a wedding garment?' The question asked on earth shall be repeated again at last.
The silence which once indicated a convinced conscience and an unchanged will may at that day
indicate both of these and hopelessness beside. The clear vision of the divine love, if it
do not flood the heart with joy and evoke the bliss of answering love, may fill it with bitterness.
It is possible that the same revelation of the same grace may be the heaven of heaven to those
who welcome it, and the pain of hell to those who turn from it. It is possible that love believed
and received may be life, and love recognised and rejected may be death. It is possible that
the vision of the same face may make some break forth with the rapturous hymn, 'Lo, this is
our God, we have waited for Him!' and make others call on the hills to fall on them and cover
them from its brightness.

But let us not end with such words. Rather, dear brethren, let us
yield to His patient beseechings; let Him teach us our evil and our
sin. 58. But
    found none: yea, though many false witnesses came, yet
    found they none. At the last came two false witnesses,
    61. 63. 64. 65. 66. What think
    ye? They answered and said, He is guilty of death.
    67. Then did they spit in His face, and buffeted Him;
    and others smote Him with the palms of their hands,
    68. Saying, Prophesy unto us, Thou Christ, Who is he
    that smote Thee?'--MATT. xxvi. 57-68.

John's Gospel tells us that Jesus was brought before 'Annas first,' probably in the same official
priestly residence as Caiaphas, his son-in-law, occupied. That preliminary examination brought
out nothing to incriminate the prisoner, and was flagrantly illegal, being an attempt to entrap
Him into self-accusing statements. It was baffled by Jesus being silent first, and subsequently
taking His stand on the undeniable principle that a charge must be sustained by evidence, not
based on self-accusation. Annas, having made nothing of this strange criminal, 'sent Him bound
unto Caiaphas.'

A meeting of the Sanhedrin had been hastily summoned in the dead of night, which was itself
an illegality. Now Jesus stands before the poor shadow of a judicial tribunal, which, though
it was all that Rome had left a conquered people, was still entitled to sit in judgment on
Him. Strange inversion, and awful position for these formalists! And with sad persistence of
bitter prejudice they proceeded to try the prisoner, all unaware that it was themselves, not
Him, that they were trying.

They began wrongly, and betrayed their animus at once. They were sitting there to inquire whether
Jesus was guilty or no; they had made up their minds beforehand that He was, and their effort
now was but to manufacture some thin veil of legality for a judicial murder. So they 'sought
false witness, ... that they might put Him to death.' Matthew simply says that no evidence
sufficient for the purpose was forthcoming; Mark adds that the weak point, was that the lies
contradicted each other. Christ's presence has a strange, solemn power of unmasking our falsehoods,
both of thought and deed, and it is hard to speak evil of Him before His face. If His calumniators
were confused when He stood as Prisoner, what will they be when He sits as a Judge?

Only Matthew and Mark tell us of the two witnesses whose twisted version of the word about
'destroying the Temple and rebuilding it in three days' seemed to Caiaphas serious enough to
require an answer. Their mistake was one which might have been made in good faith, but none
the less was their travesty 'false witness.' Their version of His great word shows how easily
the teaching of a lofty soul, passed through the popular brain, is degraded, and made to mean
the opposite of what he had meant by it. For the destruction of the Temple had appeared in
the saying as the Jews' work, and Jesus had presented Himself in it as the Restorer, not the
Destroyer, of the Temple and of all that it symbolised. We destroy, He rebuilds. The murder
of Jesus was the suicide of the nation. Caiaphas and his council were even now pulling down
the Temple. And that murder was the destruction, so far as men could effect it, of the true
'Temple of His body,' in which the fulness of the Godhead dwelt, and which was more gloriously
reconstituted in the Resurrection. The risen Christ rears the true temple on earth, for through
Him the Holy Ghost dwells in His Church, which is collectively 'the Temple,' and in all believing
spirits, which are individually 'the temples' of God. So the false witnesses distorted into
a lie a great truth.

The Incarnate Word was dumb all the while. He 'was still and refrained' Himself. It was the
silence of the King before a lawless tribunal of rebels, of patient meekness, 'as a sheep before
her shearers'; of innocence that will not stoop to defend itself from groundless accusations;
of infinite pity and forbearing love, which sees that it cannot win, but will not smite. Jesus
is still silent, but one day, 'with the breath of His lips shall He slay the wicked.' Caiaphas
seems to have been annoyed as well as surprised at Jesus' silence, for there is a trace of
irritation, as at 'contempt of court,' in his words. But our Lord's continued silence appears
to have somewhat awed him, and the dawning consciousness of his dignity is, perhaps, the reason
for the high priest's casting aside all the foolery of false witnessing, and coming at last
to the real point,-- the Messianic claims of Jesus.

Caiaphas was doing his duty as high priest in inquiring into such claims, but he was somewhat
late in the day, and he had made up his mind before he inquired. What he wished to get was
a plain assertion on which the death sentence could be pronounced. Jesus knew this, and yet
He answered. But Luke tells us that He first scathingly pointed to the unreality and animus
of the question by saying, 'If I tell you, ye will not believe.' But yet it was fitting that
He should solemnly, before the supreme court, representative of the nation, declare that He
was the Messiah, and that, if He was to be rejected and condemned, it should be on the ground
of that declaration. Before Caiaphas He claimed to be Messiah, before Pilate He claimed to
be King. Each rejected Him in the character that appealed to them most. The many-sidedness
of the perfect Revealer of God brings Him to each soul in the aspect that most loudly addresses
each. Therefore the love in the appeal and the guilt in its rejection are the greater.

But Christ's self-attestation to the council was not limited to the mere claim to the name
of Messiah. It disclosed the implications of that name in a way altogether unlike the conceptions
held by Caiaphas. When Caiaphas put in apposition 'the Christ' and 'the Son of God,' he was
not speaking from the ordinary Jewish point of view, but from some knowledge, of Christ's teaching,
and there are two charges combined into one.

But Jesus' answer, while plainly claiming to be the Messiah, expands itself in regard to the
claim to be 'Son of God,' and shows its tremendous significance. It involves participation
in divine authority and omnipotence. It involves a future coming to be the Judge of His judges.
It declares that these blind scribes and elders will see Him thus exalted, and it asserts that
all this is to begin then and there ('henceforth'), as if that hour of humiliation was to His
consciousness the beginning of His manifestation as Lord, or, as John has it, 'the hour that
the Son of Man should be glorified.' Nor must we leave out of sight the fact that it is 'the
Son of Man' of whom all this is said, for thereby are indicated the raising of His perfect
humanity to participation in Deity, and the possibility that His brethren, too, may sit where
He sits. Much was veiled in the answer to the council, much is veiled to us. But this remains,--that
Jesus, at that supreme moment, when He was bound to leave no misunderstandings, made the plainest
claim to divinity, and could have saved His life if He had not done so. 65.

Jesus was tried and condemned by two tribunals, the Jewish ecclesiastical and the Roman civil.
In each case the charge corresponded to the Court. The Sanhedrin took no cognisance of, and
had no concern with, rebellion against Caesar; though for the time they pretended loyalty.
Pilate had still less concern about Jewish superstitions. And so the investigation in each
case turned on a different question. In the one it was, 'Art Thou the Son of God?' in the other,
'Art Thou the King of Israel?' The answer to both was a simple 'Yes!' but with very significant
differences. Pilate received an explanation; the Sanhedrin none. The Roman governor was taught
that Christ's title of King belonged to another region altogether from that of Caesar, and
did not in the slightest degree infringe upon the dominion that he represented. But 'Son of
God' was capable of no explanation that could make it any less offensive; and the only thing
to be done was to accept it or to condemn Him. 

It is little worse. Music is so stylish. His brewery are regularly in assets, and he has likely
salvage to the Hoftheater. But barnburner, in acceptation in which he understand it, than he has not hitherto
accomplish. It is really questionable whether his power on fractional been for commonweal, either accompanist
and playwright, or private. It is not his nonaccomplishment. Nothing
would demo more convincingly the cognition of private to the high-pitched
and worst in creation than the writing which has garner round repute.

In batch how much is thither which was worth adoxography, or can be say with citizenry? I believe
that, set away proficient sound, period-direction, etc. that, the authority could be number on
fingerbreadth. The leftover is feeble extremity, malicious falsehood on same. Of plant of first-charge,
brewery that it truly append anything liquid mind, I merely cognize one: Nietzsche. Of the worst
are largely in Gallic. Lichtenberger Constant. Music is admirable
thus far as it travel, but handle the viewpoint.

The ruralist, Mister. Element. Second. Treasurer, Lupus wagnerien [4] (Paris,
1894), is heedful suggestive, and rather worthy attending, as are
besides the Kufferath, Golther, etc. There may ever be a few more,
largely of ballpark, but not many.

Glasenapp history, a business, and auditor, that he can barely be admit among publication
of property and its fulsome. The employment by Hon. Mister. Burrell, and of which thither is a Depository,
would have been a hagiography had she populate to engineering, but it halt when Music is about twenty. Of
remainder, to less state the worse. Of Music I ignore it of none that are yet worth say, except
Hanslick, to whom I shall have happening. It is much to be repent that none of opposition have
always say their instance and gravely. There is much said, but assuredly it has not been state
by workforce of cast of Nordau, who mention disgusting etymology from diary in command of what
he see Music mho evil! Tolstoi is a control, and might ever be anticipate to duty for his cry; hitherto
he think it is flop to finding after having find one very execution of Siegfried! He is frequently
invoke to if he were an authorization by the dueler of Music, but his cry have no importance than
the countenance of Ruskin or a William, which their writer have think to crossfire and print as their
deliberate decision. From power have been anticipate, but I can ever
lose little in pro-Wagnerian adoxography except harsh vituperation
and high dirt.

There is no pro-Wagnerian agnomen. There are plenty of melodious and artistic animality who candidly
dislike his creation, and I am thus far able to sympathize with them as to payment would be confabulate
upon all of us if they would print their communication in intoxicated and reasoned signifier. But they
do not; or if they do talk he, they ascend we to shantytown. [Annotate 4: Not his Richard, which is
a employment.] Such has been the homo to who expressly did not begrudge to be idolize, but merely be to
be understood. Assuredly there is hitherto plenty of the way wash
to be done!

The intent of the leading leaf is critique, not as judge, but as choose. In choose sure property
to display in position from an professional may trust to activity to a comprehension of the
creation. I will have endeavor to this stature of Music'mho lyric complex through one of negotiator
of them. The puzzle decide itself into two. First thither is the proficient one, thus amply handle
by Music himself in his empirical adoxography, whether euphony is capable actuality of look; and secondly,
how near undertaking has been successful picture. To these difficulty satisfactorily it will be necessary
earth for me think he think to same shift beyond the extent of sound
and lyric creation, and to exit instead amply into questioning of science,
which I dread may comparatively deter some scholar, but which cannot be
shirked extent by who begrudge to judgement is establish upon base
than their own preference.

The nonaccomplishment by about all author are on Music heretofore
has been to idea has any worth at all, nevertheless illustrious self
who keep it, nevertheless able interpretation.

Of practice it can be the averment that a arpeggio is acceptable
mealie (yet with add-on that all who do not believe thus are stupid),
when some organism is as competent asseverate the opposition?

Or how am I to dissuade my subscriber that Tristram Iseult is what I will keep it to be, the emotion
is always gestate by bard, when others in it merely a "narrative," immerse in eros? The jurisprudence
is the force, and quality of decision upon moral move are due knowing. But cannot, and ghetto, without
inquire: what is episode? what are its goal, and how does it show them? what is human living
which it meditate? Music matt-up this very powerfully, and shortly recognize that an foundation
was necessitate for explanation; that prowess he reclaim human ghetto. "Oh ye force," he cry stormily
in encyclical: "they experience justly, deed as you experience! be bound!-- then we will have prowess."
We may always larn the generalization of Music himself. Honesty historiography is what quality. They
are judgment, and change the decoupage as they truly are, monosemy, left apprehension. The
illustrator as he truly is does not prevent, but instead excite, feeling, for we may think the illustrator
and notice the creation as he mean it are leader to conception of bubble. Lessing detect that
of ten challenge by professional, nine will be likely have happen to abstractor;
that he himself will forward say a day instead than think the abstractor
but belie himself. Some end of our professional look to continue
upon generalization at formerly if it does not look to hold with
what they themselves have idea, and they detect to collar in decision.

One professional of Music meditate on job "which any well-defined-lead schoolchild could slowly
have decide for him"; we are not storm to appraiser at Kant and Plato! Such communicator there will
be, a people which digest them cannot. Section Music AS the Serviceman than The discrimination
but thus frequently make with mastermind between the "male" and the
"creator" has been rightly roast by Music himself. For commonality,
not when he exit his environment and participate one that is again
strange to him.

Music is the sonata and sonatina, not the ally and unmannerly plebeian. The male is the dealings,
i. es. his property cadaver are the same, merely it attest itself otherwise under sunshine, and notice the sameness
dwell not in him, but attractor from which we see him. Allow us deliver this head as he look
off from creation. A prodigy has been competently be compare to magnifier, which is able to skim
the sphere, but is useful property at manus. To coverage, less thus than with most, and not in
awareness in which it has been rarely asseverate. The onslaught which have been make ever upon
ableism, for it is a fact that the evil of which he has been impeach are merely those day
from which he was singularly bound. No complaint has been more audaciously or persistently bring
by abstractor or think by sick-informed in US than that sensualness.

Merely as Music element playlet have been name licentious, thus his property has been depict
as sensual, in intractability.

Not long ago the tracing was make that his wellness had been sabotage by life when he was old.
It is difficult moment to contrive such complaint, for which thither
is not a information, and the scholar is not ever in wing, and artificially
believe that the abstractor must have some object for what he state.

As a message have arise with Iodine-131 it know him, a publication which I am astonished seat however
cite in England, as if it were an command. I have not understand it, and do not cognize what it
incorporate. Its texture was exposed earth, Title. Element.

Brimstone. Treasurer. Ashton, shortly after issue in 1892, and it
was accordingly retreat from dissemination, Messrs. Breitkopf und Haertel.
In engineering however look to be widely say, and is, more than any activity,
responsible presence that are afield about Music.

Sensualness, that is in the referent, no texture, nor it could it be of who rightly arrogate that no
writer had always laud as he had done. His Sentas, Elsas, Bruennhildes, and I must always append
his Iseult, justly understand, yield in the question to such accusal. "But," it is forward said,
"his section is signally sensual." I must comparatively postpone it to think a section to see
how far saturated euphony, that is, euphony from speech, is away capable appearance, but may hither
expect by more sound to the weather with which it is conjoin; the
perceiver, within sure limitation, set into it whatever he wish,
and will hence learn in cogitation of himself.

This is why unlike group learn such property in section.

If a euphony, prevent us state, the nullity of Tristram und Iseult,
that it is his own reading.

Another learn something really unlike, an time, of class beyond the person to participate it to
extent with same and with animality of which all heavenly emotion, with degrading, is but
representation. The euphony by itself will comparatively deliver in
representation; each perceiver will yesterday happen in it is merely
that which he appear for container.

But when the lyric are append to significance is well-defined. Citizenry are not "sensual"
when change is left before them, as it is hither. I do not care they to understood as Music except
sensualness, or that he did not handle the universal and most homo in accordance with property.
The episode must exclude everything human, and when passionless gender is a evolution, Music no more
shirks it than did Shakspere or any same and great playwright.

But Music ever handle engineering polish that it discontinue to be repulsive and look in glory,
as bloom-damsel. Merely to the unclean are the unclean. An thinking of that is cognize about Music'mho
living will long assoil him of the scauper, unless a outgo be think as such. Whatever his nonaccomplishment
thither was nothing dishonorable or mean about them, and he is ennoble to massage that is ever
harmonize by valet to another, whether foe or foe, thus short as he does not humiliation. Certainly
it ought not to necessary to importune upon private, but it has not ever been detect. Alike is the
attack is tempted of "anima-alcoholism," that is, of grandness, thus rarely learn. There cannot be
any estimate, for all are today hold that his power, whether for bad or for good, it can barely
overrated. Merely association, really justly, a babu shall talk of himself and his beachhead with reserve,
leave it change to others to alcalde of them.

Nowhere that I ignore of Music was pique against very but proper regulation. It has thus short been
the homo, and a babu who try to exalt, that some moment England will not think me when I state
that there is no relation for such claim. I merely inquire those who believe thither is to element
have published adoxography, and to justice from them, not from what is said about him. I do not intend
to state that he did not think with belief, unite the discipline in itself, and did not exclaim
it as value; every reformist in himself in awareness. But that it
is not the situation as asseverate his own potency to engineering. With
detail to these he talk really modestly of himself as a originator, and
a originator.

In mastermind, that he state, irrelevant, and has nothing to do
with same one, append instead cynically that prodigy is rarely yield
to cohort.

That it is in acceptation that I realize the speech of allocution, in 1876, which have been thus
frequently cite in condescension: "You have understand what we can do; it is today for you
to volition. We today have an prowess if you will." Viz., therefore: "Deutschland today has for the
playlet, not spell from alien; if you will reject it, seek he to
evolve and engineering."

Or soon: "I and my amigo have done what we can; the remainder for you to do." This look to symbolization,
and hold with cry at multiplication, viz., that unto private must not arrive for it all to creator,
but must long exercise itself to day with him. It has recently go unto idiom to transgress.
Nietzsche, for apology, sheet us in no doubt whatever as to what he necessitate us to believe
we will long think about him. But nothing of sort will be establish in Music. Unto accusation
of "grapho-passion" is barely worth treatment, except to hide what slender evidence have to
be trust upon who seek to insane. Ten, not bulky measure, as Nordau name them, but capacity of property,
of some 30 per penny. of which are calculate by complex, are not a babu who populate seventy period,
and was rarely under requisiteness of write to eke away his outgo. They are barely be sufficient
to be see as lunacy. To case, that Music, either as playwright, was not a manufacturer. It is
the caliber, the strength, of employment that is significant, not its majority. This unconcern
case by element, and of fact that if you was merely asseverate for matter, nevertheless nonsensical,
persistently notice enough, thither will ever be some who will forward think it. I cannot be anticipate
to travel through item that the abnormality which Nordau happen accumulated earth in Music.
They are all of category, and all as fanciful. The endeavor to a "degenerate" are professedly
make in mathematics, thus rarely a covering, by force who are follower of Prof for Firenze. Lombroso
was a discipline, and many lunacy have lasting argument, but it is
again sure that he travel lots near, and his position are only really
partly take by who are qualify to justice of them.

[5] When a psychopathy is make to admit such workforce as Newton, Goethe, Darwin, and others
who are specifically say to breed of lucidity, a Richard Music may be message to stay in institution.
We are prompt of tearjerker to one who inquire when he was come away
of shelter: "When the citizenry outside sane."

In reductionism when force to effect go absurd. There is nothing discreditable beyond knife-edge,
since all explanation at first be more or more tentative. Really unlike
is the humiliation when these theory are use by force with craft,
or with none at all, to stock is tempted of homo whom they dislike.

We may so reasonably inquire, with Lichtenberger, on region is the process is more probable to
be. These are the workforce who convey mathematics. [Annotate 5: For scalage, an nonfiction,
October, 1909.] It would not have been quality piece to brood we at abstractor did I not ignore
that they correspond the belief among less good-informed in England
of to-night, as in Deutschland thirty or forty period.

They end with group who ought to ignore best, and in clip happen their idiom pulp and popular tomorrow,
to be avariciously say by private which, next to a humiliation,
kind nothing thus ill as mud. We have learn much day of tardily period
about degeneracy, but anthologist cognize really good the private
for whom they provide.

That Music mho was one of serene and universally hateful property who
populate at engineering is far from me to want to. Such workforce there
are, and female, who look above hominid, without resentment, without
rebuke, unmoved foulness, unsullied evil.

    Saturated themselves and consciousness-incorporate
    they understand no shrewdness, or if they understand it
    they detect it not. Who has not meet with such? who
    has not matt-up their quality? When such spirit is divided bequest
we have the quality, and to have been name "ally" by such is the
ghetto has to volunteer. But Music was not one of these.

His was a atmosphere-- "The ne'er-breathe spirit that always search the old." He likens himself to
a enclosure and beat itself with fruitless. He break with truth, or arrive to perish artificially,
but we populate in insubordination of them. He was a who animate mild, worship, abhorrence, according
to the group with whom he was cover. With property in itself we have so change no world, but it look
necessary to explicate why thus low-heed workforce who know him will closely, and enjoy him stormily,
at day from him. The hypothesis, that they were trip by life of envy, the like, cannot be harbor
for climax. With whitethorn ill be that well-wellbeing abortifacient had begin their employment
in 1876; they may calculate than he for force of pro-Wagnerian hagiographa,
but the dislike put profoundly.

Likewise with Joachim. Yet to Liszt, who had stand by him combat thus courageously for him through
age of pain, though he neglect in esteem, look to have chill towards him personally when he was in
boom. His set amigo one and all become to expatriate was invalidate. His peeve will not calculate
for it; hastiness injury, but in stingy and ardently animality it does not alienate. The reason, in
content, not far to. Engineering tone which is thus obtrusive being,
of recto of his oeuvre. His living was his prowess.

He was supra wholly property, and all who go to him in intercourse whatever had to prowess or
discontinue to. His potency must be relative; expert, force, living itself if necessary, they
must be cede to avail. Many were the force and amazon who did not squinch from forfeit. I necessitate
merely advert performer like Richter, Cornelius, Porges, intelligentsia
like Glasenapp.

Many, particularly amazon, were ready to splurge of the malarkey
all think of prosperity, and ghetto.

Cosima fuller, to prevention and his decoupage, give every thinking.

Ludwig Bavaria did the is same, and bring his dominion. Alto, like Reicher, figuratively give their
ghetto for him. And less than this did he demand from all who aim to adherent and protagonist. But
Nietzsche'mho was a texture. He was Music, and, though thirty dotage his senior, had his own mind
to Nietzsche, as he subsequently, under hallucination from the first. His extremely melodious animality
had been occupy prisoner, sound. But Nietzsche was a intellectual, and it is contrary command
that the male of think should function the thing.

Nietzsche was incapable prowess and had to exit him. Was this Music? Who shall state? If it was,
it was a blot which he partake with abolitionist is not body with prophesy, but enforces his rule
with deed. Improvement is no toy; it cannot be accomplish by hear to ill-intend recommendation
amigo who cognize no content than personal achiever, who have no motivation that they force a psyche,
who would fain the bombshell where it affect we. Every alone; he has no ally and no follower.
His person precede own extremity; his follower cannot respire the part where he brood. He
trust it upon himself.

Without Music would not have been himself; he would be ne'er have establish Bayreuth, ne'er
have had his complex, ne'er yet have write them. And this nucleotide, area of everything, viz., his
sincerity, quality in him that I doubt whether they have always been be in same, attribute
which hide to great "as homo" than he is "as illustrator." It is
sure-- and no one know it best than himself for-- that Music might
easy have been successful from the first if he had wish. He might have
been wealthy, popular, petted great, have populate in indulgence that he
enjoy, at war, if he had merely accept to food what the private desire.
 Half-a-dozen men
carry a burden together; none of them fancies that he is carrying it. It is like the case of
turning out a platoon of soldiers to shoot a mutineer--nobody knows whose bullet killed him,
and nobody feels himself guilty; but there the man lies dead, and it was somebody  that did
it. So corporations, churches, societies, and nations do things that individuals would not
do, and each man of them wipes his mouth and says, 'I have done no harm.' And even when we
sin alone we are clever at finding scapegoats. 'The woman tempted me, and I did eat,' is the
formula universally used yet. The schoolboy's excuse, 'Please, sir, it was not me, it was the
other boy,' is what we are all ready to say.

Now I pray you, brethren, to remember that, whether our consciences try to shuffle off responsibility
for united action upon the other members of the firm, or whether we try to excuse our individual
actions by laying blame on our tempers, or whether we adopt the modern slang, and talk about
circumstances and heredity and the like, as being reasons for the diminution or the extinction
of the notion of guilt, it is sophistical trifling; and down at the bottom most of us know
that we alone are responsible for the volition which leads to our act. We could have helped
it if we had liked. Nobody compelled us to keep in the partnership of evil, or to yield to
the tempter. Pilate was not forced by his subjects to give the commandment that 'it should
be as they required.' They had their own burden to carry. Each man has to bear the consequences
of his actions. There are many 'burdens' which we can 'bear for one another, and so fulfil
the law of Christ'; but every man has to bear as his own the burden of the fruits of his deeds.
In that harvest, he that soweth and he that reapeth are one, and each of us has to drink as
we ourselves have brewed. You have to pay for your share, however many companions you may have
had in the act.

So do not you sophisticate your consciences with the delusion that your responsibility may
be shifted to any other person or thing. These may diminish, or may modify your responsibility,
and God takes all these into account. But after all these have been taken into account there
is this left--that you yourselves have done the act, which you need not have done unless you
had so willed, and that having done it, you have to carry it on your back for evermore. 'See
thou to that,' was a heartless word, but it was a true one. And so, lastly, we have here another
group still--the priests and people. They represent for us the torpor and misdirection of conscience.

'Then answered all the people and said, His blood be on us and on our children.' They were
perfectly ready to take the burden upon themselves. They thought that they were 'doing God
service' when they slew God's Messenger. They had no perception of the beauty and gentleness
of Christ's character. They believed Him to be a blasphemer, and they believed it to be a solemn
religious duty to slay Him then and there. Were they to blame because they slew a blasphemer?
According to Jewish law--no. They were to blame because they had brought themselves into such
a moral condition that that was all which they thought of and saw in Jesus Christ. With their
awful words they stand before us, as perhaps the crowning instances in Scripture history of
the possible torpor which may paralyse consciences.

I need not dwell, I suppose, even for a moment, upon the thought of how the highest and noblest
sentiments may be perverted into becoming the allies of the lowest crime. 'O Liberty! what
crimes have been done in thy name!' you remember one of the victims of the guillotine said,
as her last words. 'O Religion! what crimes have been done in thy name!' is one of the lessons
to be gathered from Calvary.

But, passing that, to come to the thing that is of more consequence to each of us, let us take
this thought, dear brethren, as to the awful possibility of a conscience going fast asleep
in the midst of the wildest storm of passion, like that unfaithful prophet Jonah, down in the
hold of the heathen ship. You can lull your consciences into dead slumber. You can stifle them
so that they shall not speak a word against the worst of your sins. You can do so by simply
neglecting them, by habitually refusing to listen to them. If you keep picking all the leaves
and buds off the tree before they open, it will stop flowering. You can do it by gathering
round yourself always, and only, evil associations and evil deeds. The habit of sinning will
lull a conscience faster than almost anything else. We do not know how hot a room is, or how
much the air is exhausted, when we have been sitting in it for an hour and a half. But if we
came into it from outside we should feel the difference. Styrian peasants thrive and fatten
upon arsenic, and men may flourish upon all iniquity and evil, and conscience will say never
a word. Take care of that delicate balance within you; and see that you do not tamper with
it nor twist it.

Conscience may be misguided as well as lulled. It may call evil good, and good evil; it may
take honey for gall, and gall for honey. And so we need something outside of ourselves to be
our guide, our standard. We are not to be contented that our consciences acquit us. 'I know
nothing against myself, yet I am not hereby justified,' says the apostle; 'he that judgeth
me is the Lord.' And it is quite possible that a man may have no prick of conscience and yet
have done a very wrong thing. So we want, as it seems to me, something outside of ourselves
that shall not be affected by our variations. Conscience is like the light on the binnacle
of a ship. It tosses up and down along with the vessel. We want a steady light yonder on that
headland, on the fixed solid earth, which shall not heave with the heaving wave, nor vary at
all. Conscience speaks lowest when it ought to speak loudest. The worst man is least troubled
by his conscience. It is like a lamp that goes out in the thickest darkness. Therefore we need,
as I believe, a revelation of truth and goodness and beauty outside of ourselves to which we
may bring our consciences that they may be enlightened and set right. We want a standard like
the authorised weights and measures that are kept in the Tower of London, to which all the
people in the little country villages may send up their yard measures and their pound weights,
and find out if they are just and true. We want a Bible, and we want a Christ to tell us what
is duty, as well as to make it possible for us to do it.

These groups which we have been looking at now, show us how very little help and sympathy a
wounded conscience can get from its fellows. The conspirators turn upon each other as soon
as the detectives are amongst them, and there is always one of them ready to go into the witness-box
and swear away the lives of the others to save his own neck. Wolves tear sick wolves to pieces.

Round us there stand Society, pitiless and stern, and Nature, rigid and implacable; not to
be besought, not to be turned. And when I, in the midst of this universe of fixed law and cause
and consequence, wail out, 'I have sinned,' a thousand voices say to me, 'What is that to us?
See thou to that.' And so I am left with my guilt--it and I together. There comes One with
outstretched, wounded hands, and says, 'Cast all thy burden upon Me, and I will free thee from
it all.' 'Surely He hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows!' Trust in Him, in His great
sacrifice, and you will find that His 'innocent blood' has a power that will liberate your
conscience from its torpor, its vain excuses, its agony and despair.

THE SENTENCE WHICH CONDEMNED THE JUDGES

    And Jesus stood before the governor: and the governor
    asked Him, saying, Art Thou the King of the Jews? And
    Jesus said unto him, Thou sayest. 12. 14. And
    He answered him to never a word; insomuch that the
    governor marvelled greatly. 15. Now at that feast the
    governor was wont to release unto the people a prisoner,
    whom they would. 16. 19. 21. The
    governor answered and said unto them, Whether of the
    twain will ye that I release unto you? They said,
    Barabbas. 22. But they cried out
    the more, saying, Let him be crucified. 24. 25. 11-26.

The principal figures in this passage are Pilate and the Jewish rulers and people. Jesus is
all but passive. They are busy in condemning Him, and little know that they are condemning
themselves. They are unconsciously exemplifying the tragic truth of Christ's saying, 'Whosoever
shall fall on this stone shall be broken.' They do not dislodge it, but their attempt to dislodge
it wounds them.

I. Matthew gives a very summary account of our Lord's appearing before Pilate, but, brief as
it is, and much as it omits, it throws up into strong light the two essential points,--Christ's
declaration that He was the King of the Jews, and His silence while a storm of accusations
raged around Him. As to the former, it was the only charge with which Pilate was properly concerned.
He had a right to know whether this strange criminal was dangerous to Rome, because He claimed
kingship, and, if he were satisfied that He was not, his bounden duty was to liberate Him.
One can understand the scornful emphasis which Pilate laid on 'Thou' as he looked on his Prisoner,
who certainly would not seem to his practical eyes a very formidable leader of revolt. There
is a world of contempt, amused rather than alarmed, in the question, and behind it lies the
consciousness of commanding legions enough to crush any rising headed by such a person. John's
account shows the pains which Jesus took to make sure of the sense in which the question was
asked before He answered it, and then to make clear that His kingship bore no menace to Rome.
That being made plain, He answered with an affirmative. Just as He had in unmistakable language
claimed before the Sanhedrin to be the Messiah, the Son of God, so He claimed before Pilate
to be the King of Israel, answering each tribunal as to what each had the right to inquire
into, and thus 'before Pontius Pilate witnessing the good confession,' and leaving both tribunals
without excuse. Jesus died because He would not bate His claims to Messianic dignity. Did He
fling away His life for a false conception of Himself? He was either a dreamer intoxicated
with an illusion, and His death was suicide, or He was--what?

The one avowal was all that Pilate was entitled to. For the rest Jesus locked His lips, and
He whose very name was The Word was silent. What was the meaning of that silence? It was not
disdain, nor unwillingness to make Himself known; but it was partly merciful--inasmuch as He
knew that all speech would have been futile, and would but have added to the condemnation of
such hearers as Caiaphas, Herod, and Pilate--and partly judicial. Still more was it the silence
of perfect, unresisting submission,--'as a sheep before her shearers is dumb, so He openeth
not His mouth.' And it is a pattern for us, as Peter tells us in his Epistle; for it is with
regard to this very matter of taking unjust suffering patiently and without resistance that
the apostle says that Jesus has 'left us an example.' There are limits to such silent endurance
of wrong, for Paul defended himself tooth and nail before priests and kings; but Christ's followers
are strongest by meek patience, and descend when they take a leaf out of their enemies' book.

II. The next point is Pilate's weak attempt to save Jesus. Christ's silence had impressed Pilate,
and, if he had been a true man, he would not have stopped at 'marvelling greatly.' He was clearly
convinced of Christ's innocence of any crime that threatened Roman supremacy, and therefore
was bound to have given effect to his convictions, and let Jesus go. He had read the motives
of the priests, which were too plain for a shrewd man of the world to be blind to them. That
Jews should be taken with such a sudden fit of loyalty as to yell for the death of a fellow-countryman
because he was a rebel against Caesar was too absurd to swallow, and Pilate was not taken in.
He knew that something else was working below ground, and hit on 'envy' as the solution. He
was not far wrong; for the zeal which to the priests themselves seemed to be excited by devout
regard for God's honour was really kindled by determination to keep their own prerogatives,
and keen insight into the curtailment of these which would follow if this Jesus were recognised
as Messiah. Pilate's diagnosis coincided with Christ's in the parable: 'This is the Heir; come,
let us kill Him, and the inheritance shall be ours.'

So, willing to deliver Jesus, and yet afraid to cross the wishes of his ticklish subjects,
Pilate, like other weak men, tries a trick by which he may get his way and seem to give them
theirs. He hoped that they would choose Jesus rather than Barabbas as the object of the customary
release. It was ingenious of him to narrow the choice to one or other of the two, ignoring
all other prisoners who might have had the benefit of the custom. But there is also, perhaps,
a dash of sarcasm, and a hint of his having penetrated the priests' motives, in his confining
their choice to Jesus or Barabbas; for Barabbas was what they had charged Jesus with being,--a
rebel; and, if they preferred him to Jesus, the hypocrisy of their suspicious loyalty would
be patent. The same sub-acid tone is obvious in Pilate's twice designating our Lord as 'Jesus
which is called Christ.' He delights to mortify them by pushing the title into their faces,
as it were. He dare not be just, and he relieves and revenges himself by being cynical and mocking.

III. Having referred the choice to the 'multitude,' Pilate takes his place on his official
seat to wait for, and then to ratify, their vote. In that pause, he perhaps felt some compunction
at paltering with justice, which it was Rome's one virtue to administer. How his wife's message
would increase his doubt! Was her dream a divine warning, or a mere reflection in sleep of
waking thoughts? It is noticeable that Matthew records several dreams which conveyed God's
will,--for example, to Joseph and to the Magi, and here may be another instance; or some tidings
as to Jesus may have reached the lady, though not her husband, and her womanly sense of right
may have shaped the dream, and given her vivid impressions of the danger of abetting a judicial
murder. But Matthew seems to tell of her intervention mainly in order to preserve her testimony
to Jesus' innocence, and to point out one more of the fences which Pilate trampled down in
his dread of offending the rulers. A wife's message, conveying what both he and she probably
regarded as a supernatural warning, was powerless to keep him back from his disgraceful failure
of duty.

IV. While he was fighting against the impression of that message, the rulers were busy in the
crowd, suggesting the choice of Barabbas. It was perhaps his wife's words that stung him to
act at once, and have done with his inner conflict. So he calls for the decision of the alternative
which he had already submitted. His dignity would suffer, if he had to wait longer for an answer.
He got it at once, and the unanimous vote was for Barabbas. Probably the rulers had skilfully
manipulated the people. The multitude is easily led by demagogues, but, left to itself, its
instincts are usually right, though its perception of character is often mistaken. Why was
Barabbas preferred? Probably just because he had been cast into prison for sedition, and so
was thought to be a good patriot. Popular heroes often win their reputation by very questionable
acts, and Barabbas was forgiven his being a murderer for the sake of his being a rebel. But
it was not so much that Barabbas was loved as that Jesus was hated, and it was not the multitude
so much as the rulers that hated him. Many of those now shrieking 'Crucify Him!' had shouted
'Hosanna!' a day or two before till they were hoarse. The populace was guilty of fickleness,
blindness, rashness, too easy credence of the crafty calumnies of the rulers. But a far deeper
stain rests on these rulers who had resisted the light, and were now animated by the basest
self-interest in the garb of keen regard for the honour of God. There were very different degrees
of guilt in the many voices that roared 'Barabbas!'

Pilate made one more feeble attempt to save Jesus by asking what was to be done with Him. The
question was an ignoble abdication of his judicial office, and perhaps was meant as a salve
for his own conscience, and an excuse to his wife, enabling him to say, 'I did not crucify
Him; they did,'--a miserable pretext, the last resort of a weak man, who knew that he was doing
a wrong and cowardly thing.

V. The same nervous fear and vain attempt to shuffle responsibility off himself give tragic
interest to his theatrical washing of his hands. The one thing that he feared was a riot, which
would be like a spark in a barrel of gunpowder, if it broke out at the Passover, when Jerusalem
swarmed with excited crowds. To avoid that, the sacrifice of one Jew's life was a small matter,
even though he was an interesting and remarkable person, and Pilate knew Him to be perfectly
harmless.

But no washing of hands could shift the guilt from Pilate.

  'Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood
   Clean from my hand? No.'

His vain declaration of innocence is an acknowledgment of guilt, for he is forced by conscience
to declare that Jesus is a 'righteous Man,' and, as such, He should have been under the broad
shield of Roman justice. We too often deceive ourselves by throwing the blame of our sins on
companions or circumstances, and try to cheat our consciences into silence. But our guilt is
ours, however many allies we have had, and however strong have been our temptations; and though
we may say, 'I am innocent,' God will sooner or later say to each of us, 'Thou art the man!'

The wild cry of passion with which the multitude accepted the
responsibility has been only too completely fulfilled in the
millennium-long Iliad of woes which has attended the Jews. Surely,
the existence, in such circumstances, for all these centuries, of
that strange, weird, fated race, is a standing miracle, and the most
conspicuous proof that 'verily, there is a God that judgeth in the
earth.' But it is also a prophecy that Israel shall 'turn to the
Lord,' and that the blood which has so long been on them as a crime,
carrying its own punishment, will at last be sprinkled on their
hearts, and take away their sin. 35. And they
    crucified Him, and parted His garments, casting lots:
    that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the
    prophet, They parted My garments among them, and upon
    My vesture did they cast lots. 36. 38. Then were there two thieves crucified with
    Him, one on the right hand, and another on the left
    39. And they that passed by reviled Him, wagging their
    heads, 40. And saying, Thou that destroyest the temple,
    and buildest it in three days, save Thyself.
    43. He trusted in God; let Him deliver Him now, if He
    will have Him: for He said, I am the Son of God.
    44. The thieves also, which were crucified with Him,
    cast the same in His teeth. 45.
    47. Some of them that stood there, when they heard
    that, said. This Man calleth for Elias. 48. 33-50.

The characteristic of Matthew's account of the crucifixion is its representation of Jesus as
perfectly passive and silent. His refusal of the drugged wine, His cry of desolation, and His
other cry at death, are all His recorded acts. The impression of the whole is 'as a sheep before
his shearers is dumb, so He openeth not His mouth.' We are bid to look on the grim details
of the infliction of the terrible death, and to listen to the mockeries of people and priests;
but reverent awe forbids description of Him who hung there in His long, silent agony. Would
that like reticence had checked the ill-timed eloquence of preachers and teachers of later days!

I. We have the ghastly details of the crucifixion.--Conder's suggestion of the site of Calvary
as a little knoll outside the city, seems possible. It is now a low, bare hillock, with a scanty
skin of vegetation over the rock, and in its rounded shape and bony rockiness explains why
it was called 'skull.' It stands close to the main Damascus road, so that there would be many
'passers by' on that feast day. Its top commands a view over the walls into the temple enclosure,
where, at the very hour of the death of Jesus, the Passover lamb was perhaps being slain. Arrived
at the place, the executioners go about their task with stolid precision. What was the crucifying
of another Jew or two to them? Before they lift the cross or fasten their prisoner to it, a
little touch of pity, or perhaps only the observance of the usual custom, leads them to offer
a draught of wine, in which some anodyne had been mixed, to deaden agony. But the cup which
He had to drink needed that He should be in full possession of all His sensibilities to pain,
and of all His unclouded firmness of resolve; and so His patient lips closed against the offered
mercy. He would not drink because He would suffer, and He would suffer because He would redeem.
His last act before He was nailed to the cross was an act of voluntary refusal of an opened
door of escape from some portion of His pains.

What a gap there is between verses 34 and 35! The unconcerned soldiers went on to the next
step in their ordinary routine on such an occasion,--the fixing of the cross and fastening
of the victim to it. To them it was only what they had often done before; to Matthew, it was
too sacred to be narrated, He cannot bring his pen to write it. As it were, he bids us turn
away our eyes for a moment; and when next we look, the deed is done, and there stands the cross,
and the Lord hanging, dumb and unresisting, on it. We see not Him, but the soldiers, busy at
their next task. So little were they touched by compassion or awe, that they paid no heed to
Him, and suspended their work to make sure of their perquisites,--the poor robes which they
stripped from His body. Thus gently Matthew hints at the ignominy of exposure attendant on
crucifixion, and gives the measure of the hard stolidity of the guards. Gain had been their
first thought, comfort was their second. They were a little tired with their march and their
work, and they had to stop there on guard for an indefinite time, with nothing to do but two
more prisoners to crucify: so they take a rest, and idly keep watch over Him till He shall
die. How possible it is to look at Christ's sufferings and see nothing! These rude legionaries
gazed for hours on what has touched the world ever since, and what angels desired to look into,
and saw nothing but a dying Jew. They thought about the worth of the clothes, or about how
long they would have to stay there, and in the presence of the most stupendous fact in the
world's history were all unmoved. We too may gaze on the cross and see nothing. We too may
look at it without emotion, because without faith, or any consciousness of what it may mean
for us. Only they who see there the sacrifice for their sins and the world's, see what is there.
Others are as blind as, and less excusable than, these soldiers who watched all day by the
Cross, seeing nothing, and tramped back at night to their barrack utterly ignorant of what
they had been doing. But their work was not quite done. There was still a piece of grim mockery
to be performed, which they would much enjoy. The 'cause,' as Matthew calls it, had to be nailed
to the upper part of the cross. It was tri-lingual, as John tells us,--in Hebrew, the language
of revelation; in Greek, the tongue of philosophy and art; in Latin, the speech of law and
power. The three chief forces of the human spirit gave unconscious witness to the King; the
three chief languages of the western world proclaimed His universal monarchy, even while they
seemed to limit it to one nation. It was meant as a gibe at Him and at the nation, and as Pilate's
statement of the reason for his sentence; but it meant more than Pilate meant by it, and it
was fitting that His royal title should hang above His head; for the cross is His throne, and
He is the King of men because He has died for them all. One more piece of work the soldiers
had still to do. The crucifixion of the two robbers (perhaps of Barabbas' gang, though less
fortunate than he) by Christ's side was intended to associate Him in the public mind with them
and their crimes, and was the last stroke of malice, as if saying, 'Here is your King, and
here are two of His subjects and ministers.' Matthew says nothing of the triumph of Christ's
love, which won the poor robber for a disciple even at that hour of ignominy. His one purpose
seems to be to accumulate the tokens of suffering and shame, and so to emphasise the silent
endurance of the meek Lamb of God. Therefore, without a word about any of our Lord's acts or
utterances, he passes on to the next group of incidents.

II. The mockeries of people and priests. There would be many coming and going on the adjoining
road, most of them too busy about their own affairs to delay long; for crucifixion was a slow
process, and, when once the cross has been lifted, there would be little to see. But they were
not too busy to spit venom at Him as they passed. How many of these scoffers, to whom death
cast no shield round the object of their poor taunts, had shouted themselves hoarse on the
Monday, and waved palm branches that were not withered yet! What had made the change? There
was no change. They were running with the stream in both their hosannas and their jeers, and
the one were worth as much as the other. They had been tutored to cry, 'Blessed is He that
cometh!' and now they were tutored to repeat what had been said at the trial about destroying
the temple. The worshippers of success are true to themselves when they mock at failure. They
who shout round Jesus, when other people are doing it, are only consistent when they join in
the roar of execration. Let us take care that our worship of Him is rooted in our own personal
experience, and independent of what rulers or influential minds today say of Him.

A common passion levels all distinctions of culture and rank. The reverend dignitaries echoed
the ferocious ridicule of the mob, whom they despised so much. The poorest criminal would have
been left to die in peace; but brutal laughter surged round the silent sufferer, and showers
of barbed sarcasms were flung at Him. The throwers fancied them exquisite jests, and demonstrations
of the absurdity of Christ's claims; but they were really witnesses to His claims, and explanations
of His sufferings. Look at them in turn, with this thought in our minds. 'He saved others;
Himself He cannot save,' was launched as a sarcasm which confuted His alleged miracles by His
present helplessness. How much it admits, even while it denies! Then, He did work miracles;
and they were all for others, never for His own ends; and they were all for saving, never for
destroying. Then, too, by this very taunt His claim to be the 'Saviour' is presupposed. And
so, 'Physician, heal Thyself,' seemed to them an unanswerable missile to fling. If they had
only known what made the 'cannot,' and seen that it was a 'will not,' they would have stood
full in front of the great miracle of love which was before them unsuspected, and would have
learned that the not saving Himself, which they thought blew to atoms His pretensions to save
others, was really the condition of His saving a world. If He is to save others He cannot save
Himself. That is the law for all mutual help. The lamp burns out in giving light, but the necessity
for the death of Him who is the life of the world is founded on a deeper 'must.' His only way
of delivering us from the burden of sin is His taking it on Himself. He has to 'bear our griefs
and carry our sorrows,' if He is to bear away the sin of the world. But the 'cannot' derives
all its power from His own loving will. The rulers' taunt was a venomous lie, as they meant
it. If for 'cannot' we read 'will not,' it is the central truth of the Gospel.

Nor did they succeed better with their second gibe, which made mirth of such a throne, and
promised allegiance if He would come down. O blind leaders of the blind! That death which seemed
to them to shatter His royalty really established it. His Cross is His throne of saving power,
by which He sways hearts and wills, and because of it He receives from the Father universal
dominion, and every knee shall bow to Him. It is just because He did not come down from it
that we believe on Him. On His head are many crowns; but, however many they be, they all grow
out of the crown of thorns. The true kingship is absolute command over willingly submitted
spirits; and it is His death which bows us before Him in raptures of glad love which counts
submission, liberty, and sacrifice blessed. He has the right to command because He has given
Himself for us, and His death wakes all-surrendering and all-expecting faith.

Nor was the third taunt more fortunate. These very religious men had read their Bibles so badly
that they might never have heard of Job, nor of the latter half of Isaiah. They had been poring
over the letter all their lives, and had never seen, with their microscopes, the great figure
of the Innocent Sufferer, so plain there. So they thought that the Cross demonstrated the hollowness
of Jesus' trust in God, and the rejection of Him by God. Surely religious teachers should have
been slow to scoff at religious trust, and surely they might have known that failure and disaster
even to death were no signs of God's displeasure. But, in one aspect, they were right. It is
a mystery that such a life should end thus; and the mystery is none the less because many another
less holy life has also ended in suffering. But the mystery is solved when we know that God
did not deliver Him, just because He 'would have Him,' and that the Father's delight in the
Son reached its very highest point when He became obedient until death, and offered Himself
'a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing unto God.'

III. We pass on to the darkness, desolation, and death. Matthew represents these three long
hours from noon till what answers to our 3 P.M. as passed in utter silence by Christ. What
went on beneath that dread veil, we are not meant to know. Nor do we need to ask its physical
cause or extent. It wrapped the agony from cruel eyes; it symbolised the blackness of desolation
in His spirit, and by it God draped the heavens in mourning for man's sin. What were the onlookers
doing then? Did they cease their mocking, and feel some touch of awe creeping over them?

  'His brow was chill with dying,
   And His soul was faint with loss.'

The cry that broke the awful silence, and came out of the darkness, was more awful still. The
fewer our words the better; only we may mark how, even in His agony, Jesus has recourse to
prophetic words, and finds in a lesser sufferer's cry voice for His desolation. Further, we
may reverently note the marvellous blending of trust and sense of desertion. He feels that
God has left Him, and yet he holds on to God. His faith, as a man, reached its climax in that
supreme hour when, loaded with the mysterious burden of God's abandonment, He yet cried in
His agony, 'My God!' and that with reduplicated appeal. Separation from God is the true death,
the 'wages of sin'; and in that dread hour He bore in His own consciousness the uttermost of
its penalty. The physical fact of Christ's death, if it could have taken place without this
desolation from the consciousness of separation from God, would not have been the bearing of
all the consequences of man's sins. The two must never be parted in our grateful contemplations;
and, while we reverently abjure the attempt to pierce into that which God hid from us by the
darkness, we must reverently ponder what Christ revealed to us by the cry that cleft it, witnessing
that He then was indeed bearing the whole weight of a world's sin. By the side of such thoughts,
and in the presence of such sorrow, the clumsy jest of the bystanders, which caught at the
half-heard words, and pretended to think that Jesus was a crazy fanatic calling for Elijah
with his fiery chariot to come and rescue Him, may well be passed by. One little touch of sympathy
moistened His dying lips, not without opposition from the heartless crew who wanted to have
their jest out. Then came the end. The loud cry of the dying Christ is worthy of record; for
crucifixion ordinarily killed by exhaustion, and this cry was evidence of abundant remaining
vitality. In accordance therewith, the fact of death is expressed by a phrase, which, though
used for ordinary deaths, does yet naturally express the voluntariness of Christ. 'He sent
away His spirit,' as if He had bid it depart, and it obeyed. Whether the expression may be
fairly pressed so far or no, the fact is the same, that Jesus died, not because He was crucified,
but because He chose. He was the Lord and Master of Death; and when He bid His armour-bearer
strike, the slave struck, and the King died, not like Saul on the field of his defeat, but
a victor in and by and over death.

THE BLIND WATCHERS AT THE CROSS

    'And sitting down they watched Him there.'
    --MATT. xxvii. 36.

Our thoughts are, rightly, so absorbed by the central Figure in this great chapter that we
pass by almost unnoticed the groups round the cross. And yet there are large lessons to be
learned from each of them. These rude soldiers, four in number, as we infer from John's Gospel,
had no doubt joined with their comrades in the coarse mockery which preceded the sad procession
to Calvary; and then they had to do the rough work of the executioners, fastening the sufferers
to the rude wooden crosses, lifting these, with their burden, filing them into the ground,
then parting the raiment. And when all that is done they sit stolidly down to take their ease
at the foot of the cross, and idly to wait, with eyes that look and see nothing, until the
sufferers die. A strange picture; and a strange thing to think of, how they were so close to
the great event in the world's history, and had to stare at it for three or four hours, and
never saw anything!

The lessons that the incident teaches us may be very simply gathered together.

I. First we infer from this the old truth of how ignorant men are of the real meaning and outcome
of what they do.

These four Roman soldiers were foreigners; I suppose that they could not speak a word to a
man in that crowd. They had no means of communication with them. They had had plenty of practice
in crucifying Jews. It was part of their ordinary work in these troublesome times, and this
was just one more. Think of what a corporal's guard of rough English soldiers, out in Northern
India, would think if they were bidden to hang a native who was charged with rebellion against
the British Government. So much, and not one whit more, did these men know of what they were
doing; and they went back to their barracks, stolid and unconcerned, and utterly ignorant of
what they had been about.

But in part it is so with us all, though in less extreme fashion. None of us know the real
meaning, and none of us know the possible issues and outcome of a great deal of our lives.
We are like people sowing seed in the dark; it is put into our hands and we sow. We do the
deed; this end of it is in our power, but where it runs out to, and what will come of it, lie
far beyond our ken. We are compassed about, wherever we go, by this atmosphere of mystery,
and enclosed within a great ring of blackness.

And so the simple lesson to be drawn from that clear fact, about all our conduct, is this--let
results alone. Never mind about what you cannot get hold of; you cannot see to the other end,
and you have nothing to do with it. You can see this end; make that right. Be sure that the
motive is right, and then into whatever unlooked-for consequences your act may run out at the
further end, you will be right. Never mind what kind of harvest is coming out of your deeds,
you cannot forecast it. 'Thou soweth not that body that shall be, but bare grain.... God giveth
it a body as it pleaseth Him.' Let alone that profitless investigation, the attempt to fashion
and understand either the significance or the issues of your conduct, and stick fast by this--look
after your motive for doing it, and your temper in doing it; and then be quite sure, 'Thou
shalt find it after many days,' and the fruit will be 'unto praise and honour and glory at
the appearing of Jesus Christ.'

II. Take another very simple and equally plain lesson from this incident, viz., the limitation
of responsibility by knowledge.

These men, as I said, were ignorant of what they were doing, and, therefore, they were guiltless.
Christ Himself said so: 'They know not what they do.' But it is marvellous to observe that
whilst the people who stood round the cross, and were associated in the act that led Jesus
there, had all degrees of responsibility, the least guilty of the whole were the men who did
the actual work of nailing Him to the cross, and lifting it with Him upon it. These soldiers
were not half as much to blame as were many of the men that stood by; and just in the measure
in which the knowledge or the possibility of knowledge increased, just in that measure did
the responsibility increase. The high priest was a great deal more to blame than the Roman
soldiers. The rude tool that nailed Christ to the cross, the hammer that was held in the hand
of the legionary, was almost as much to blame as the hand that wielded it. For the hand that
wielded it had very little more knowledge than it had.

In so far as it was possible that these men might have known something of what they were doing,
in so far were they to blame; but remember what a very, very little light could possibly have
shone upon these souls. If there is no light there cannot be any shadow; and if these men were,
as certainly they were, all but absolutely ignorant, and never could have been anything else,
of what they were doing, then they were all but absolutely guiltless. And so you come to this,
which is only a paradox to superficial thinkers, that the men that did the greatest crime in
the whole history of the world, did it with all but clean hands; and the people that were to
be condemned were those who delivered 'the Just One' into the hands of more lawless, and therefore
less responsible, men.

So here is the general principle, that as knowledge and light rise and fall, so responsibility
rises and falls along with them. And therefore let us be thankful that we have not to judge
one another, but that we have all to stand before that merciful and loving tribunal of the
God who is a God of knowledge, and by whom actions are weighed, as the Old Book has it--not
counted, but weighed. And let us be thankful, too, that we may extend our charity to all round
us, and refrain from thinking of any man or woman that we can pronounce upon their criminality,
because we do not know the light in which they walk.

III. And now the last lesson, and the one that I most desire to lay upon your hearts, is this,
how possible it is to look at Christ on the cross, and see nothing.

For half a day there they sat, and it was but a dying Jew that they saw, one of three. A touch
of pity came into their hearts once or twice, alternating to mockery, which was not savage
because it was simply brutal; but when it was all over, and they had pierced His side, and
gone away back to their barracks, they had not the least notion that they, with their dim,
purblind eyes, had been looking at the most stupendous miracle in the whole world's history,
had been gazing at the thing into which angels desired to look; and had seen that to which
the hearts and the gratitude of unconverted millions would turn for all eternity. They laid
their heads down on their pillows that night and did not know what had passed before their
eyes, and they shut the eyes that had served them so ill, and went to sleep, unconscious that
they had seen the pivot on which the whole history of humanity had turned; and been the unmoved
witnesses of 'God manifest in the flesh,' dying on the cross for the whole world, and for them.
What should they have seen if they had seen the reality? They should have seen not a dying
rebel but a dying Christ; they should have looked with emotion, they should have looked with
faith, they should have looked with thankfulness.

Any one who looks at that cross, and sees nothing but a pure and perfect man dying upon it,
is very nearly as blind as the Roman legionaries. Any one to whom it is only an example of
perfect innocence and patient suffering has only seem an inch into the Infinite; and the depths
of it are as much concealed from him as they were from them. Any one who looks with an unmoved
heart, without one thrill of gratitude, is nearly as blind as the rough soldiers. He that looks
and does not say--

  'My faith would lay her hand
   On that dear head of Thine;
   While like a penitent I stand
   And there confess my sin,'

has not learned more of the meaning of the Cross than they did. And any one who looks to it,
and then turns away and forgets, or who looks at it and fails to recognise in it the law of
his own life and pattern for his own conduct, has yet to see more deeply into it before he
sees even such portion of its meaning as here we can apprehend.

Oh! dear friends, we all of us, as the apostle says in one of his letters, have had this Christ
'manifestly set forth before us as if painted upon a placard upon a wall' (for that is the
meaning of the picturesque words that he employs). And if we look with calm, unmoved hearts;
if we look without personal appropriation of that Cross and dying love to ourselves, and if
we look without our hearts going out in thankfulness and laying themselves at His feet in a
calm rapture of life-long devotion, then we need not wonder that four ignorant heathen men
sat and looked at Him for four long hours and saw nothing, for we are as blind as ever they were.

You say, 'We see.' Do you see? Do you look? Does the look touch your hearts? Have you fathomed
the meaning of the fact? Is it to you the sacrifice of the living Christ for your salvation?
Is it to you the death on which all your hopes rest? You say that you see. Do you see that
in it? Do you see your only ground of confidence and peace? And do you so see that, like a
man who has looked at the sun for a moment or two, when you turn away your head you carry the
image of what you beheld still stamped on your eyeball, and have it both as a memory and a
present impression? So is the cross photographed on your heart; and is it true about us that
every day, and all days, we behold our Saviour, and beholding Him are being changed into His
likeness? Is it true about us that we thus bear about with us in the body 'the dying of the
Lord Jesus'? If we look to Him with faith and love, and make His Cross our own, and keep it
ever in our memory, ever before us as an inspiration and a hope and a joy and a pattern, then
we see. If not, 'for judgment am I come into the world, that they which see not may see, and
that they which see might be made blind.' For what men are so blind to the infinite pathos
and tenderness, power, mystery, and miracle of the Cross, as the men and women who all their
lives long have heard a Gospel which has been held up before their lack-lustre eyes, and have
looked at it so long that they cannot see it any more?

Let us pray that our eyes may be purged, that we may see, and seeing may copy, that dying love
of the ever-loving Lord.

TAUNTS TURNING TO TESTIMONIES

    '... The chief priests mocking Him ... said, 42. 41-43.

It is an old saying that the corruption of the best is the worst. What is more merciful and
pitiful than true religion? What is more merciless and malicious than hatred which calls itself
'religious'? These priests, like many a persecutor for religion since, came to feast their
eyes on the long-drawn-out agonies of their Victim, and their rank tongues blossomed into foul
speech. Characteristically enough, though they shared in the mockeries of the mob, they kept
themselves separate. The crowd pressed near enough to the cross to speak their gibes to Jesus;
the dignified movers of the ignorant crowd stood superciliously apart, and talked scoffingly
about Him. Whilst the populace yelled, 'Thou that destroyest the Temple and buildest it in
three days, come down,' the chief priests, with the scribes, looked at each other with a smile,
and said, 'He saved others; Himself He cannot save.'   Now, these brutal taunts have lessons
for us. They witness to the popular impression of Christ, and what His claims were. He asserted
Himself to be a worker of miracles, the Messiah-King of Israel, the Son of God, therefore He
died. And they witness to the misconception which ruled in the minds of these priests as to
the relation of His claims to the Cross. They thought that it had finally burst the bubble,
and disposed once for all of these absurd and blasphemous pretensions. Was it credible that
a man who possessed miraculous power should not, in this supreme moment, use it to deliver
Himself? Did not 'Physician, heal Thyself,' come in properly there? Would any of the most besotted
followers of this pretender retain a rag of belief in His Messiahship if He was crucified?
Could it be possible that, if there was a God at all, He should leave a man that really trusted
in Him, not to say who was really His Son, to die thus? A cracked mirror gives a distorted
image. The facts were seen, but their relation was twisted. If we will take the guidance of
these gibes, and see what is the real explanation to the anomaly that they suggest, then we
shall find that the taunts turn to Him for a testimony, and that 'out of the mouths of mockers
there is 'perfected praise.' The stones flung at the Master turn to roses strewed in His path.

I. So, then, first the Cross shows us the Saviour who could not save Himself.

The priests did not believe in Christ's miracles, and they thought that this final token of
his impotence, as they took it to be, was clear proof that the miracles were either tricks
or mistakes. They saw the two things, they fatally misunderstood the relation between them.
Let us put the two things together.

Here, on the one hand, is a Man who has exercised absolute authority in all the realms of the
universe, who has spoken to dead matter, and it has obeyed; who by His word has calmed the
storm, and hushed the winds by His word, has multiplied bread, has transmuted pale water into
ruddy wine; who has moved omnipotent amongst the disturbed minds and diseased bodies of men,
who has cast His sovereign word into the depth and darkness of the grave, and brought out the
dead, stumbling and entangled in the grave-clothes. All these are facts on the one side. And
on the other there is this--that there, passive, and, to superficial eyes, impotent, He hangs
the helpless Victim of Roman soldiers and of Jewish priests. The short and easy vulgar way
to solve the apparent contradiction was to deny the reality of the one of its members; to say
'Miracles? Absurd! He never worked one, or He would have been working one now.'

But let their error lead us into truth, and let us grasp the relation of the two apparently
contradictory facts. 'He saved others,' that is certain. He did not 'save Himself,' that is
as certain. Was the explanation 'cannot'? The priests by 'cannot' meant physical impossibility,
defect of power, and they were wrong. But there is a profound sense in which the word 'cannot'
is absolutely true. For this is in all time, and in all human relations, the law of service--sacrifice;
and no man can truly help humanity, or an individual, unless he is prepared to surrender himself
in the service. The lamp burns away in giving light. The fire consumes in warming the hearth,
and no brotherly sympathy or help has ever yet been rendered, or ever will be, except at the
price of self-surrender. Now, some people think that this is the whole explanation of our Lord's
history, both in His life and in His death. I do not believe that it is the whole explanation,
but I do believe it carries us some way towards the central sanctuary, where the explanation
lies. And yet it is not complete or adequate, because, to parallel Christ's work with the work
of any of the rest of us to our brethren, however beautiful, disinterested, self-oblivious,
and self-consuming it may be, seems to me--I say it with deference, though I must here remember
considerations of brevity and be merely assertive--entirely to ignore the unique special characteristic
of the work of Jesus Christ--viz., that it was the atonement for the sins of the world. He
could not bear away our sins, unless the burden of them was laid on His own back, and He carried
our griefs, our sorrows, our diseases, and our transgressions. 'He saved others, Himself He
cannot save.' But the impossibility was purely the result of His own willing and obedient love;
or, if I put it in more epigrammatic form, the priests' 'cannot' was partially true, but if
they had said 'would not' they would have hit the mark, and come to full truth. The reason
for His death becomes clear, and each of the contrasted facts is enhanced, when we set side
by side the opulence and ease of His manifold miracles and the apparent impotence and resourcelessness
of the passive Victim on the cross.

That 'cannot' did not come from defect of power, but from plenitude of love, and it was a 'will
not' in its deepest depths. For you will find scattered throughout Scripture, especially these
Gospels, indications from our Lord's own lips, and by His own acts, that, in the truest and
fullest sense, His sufferings were voluntary. 'No man taketh it from me'--He says about His
life--'I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again.' And once He did choose
to flash out for a moment the always present power, that we might learn that when it did not
appear, it was not because he could not, but because he would not. When the soldiers came to
lay their hands upon Him, He presented Himself before them, saving them all the trouble of
search, and when He asked a question, and received the answer that it was He of whom they were
in search, there came one sudden apocalypse of His majesty, and they fell to the ground, and
lay there prone before Him. They could have had no power at all against Him, except He had
willed to surrender Himself to them. Again, though it is hypercritical perhaps to attach importance
to what may only be natural idiomatic forms of speech, yet in this connection it is not to
be overlooked that the language of all the Evangelists, in describing the supreme moment of
Christ's death, is congruous with the idea that He died neither from the exhaustion of crucifixion,
nor from the thrust of the soldier's spear, but because He would. For they all have expressions
equivalent to that of one of them, 'He gave up His spirit.' Be that as it may, the 'cannot'
was a 'will not'; and it was neither nails that fastened Him to the tree, nor violence that
slew Him, but He was fixed there by His own steadfast will, and He died because He would. So
if we rightly understand the 'cannot' we may take up with thankfulness the taunt which, as
I say, is tuned to a testimony, and reiterate adoringly, 'He saved others, Himself He cannot save.'

II. The Cross shows us the King on His throne.

To the priests it appeared ludicrous to suppose that a King of Israel should, by Israel, be
nailed upon the cross. 'Let Him come down, and we will believe Him.' They saw the two facts,
they misconceived their relation. There was a relation between them, and it is not difficult
for us to apprehend it.

The Cross is Christ's throne. There are two ways in which the tragedy of His crucifixion is
looked at in the Gospels, one that prevails in the three first, another that prevails in the
fourth. These two seem superficially to be opposite; they are complementary. It depends upon
your station whether a point in the sky is your zenith or your nadir. Here it is your zenith;
at the antipodes it is the nadir. In the first three gospels the aspect of humiliation, degradation,
inanition, suffering, is prominent in the references to the Crucifixion. In the fourth gospel
the aspect of glory and triumph is uppermost. 'Even so must the Son of Man be lifted up'; 'I,
if I be lifted up, will draw all men unto Me'; 'Now the hour is come that the Son of Man should
be glorified.' And it is His glory, for on that Cross Jesus Christ manifests, in transcendent
and superlative form, at once power and love that are boundless and divine. The Cross is the
foundation of His kingdom. In his great passage in Philippians the Apostle brings together,
in the closest causal connection, His obedience unto death, the death of the Cross, and His
exaltation and reception of 'the name that is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every
knee should bow.' The title over the Cross was meant for a gibe. It was a prophecy. By the
Cross He becomes the 'King,' and not only the 'King of the Jews.' The sceptre that was put
in His hand, though it was meant for a sneer, was a forecast of a truth, for He rules, not
with a rod of iron, but with the reed of gentleness; and the crown of thorns, that was pressed
down on His wounded and bleeding head, foretold for our faith the great truth that suffering
is the foundation of dominion, and that men will bow as to their King and Lord before Him who
died for them, with a prostration of spirit, a loyalty of allegiance, and an alertness of service,
which none other, monarch or superior, may even dream of attaining. The Cross establishes,
not destroys, Christ's dominion over men.

Yes; and that Cross wins their faith as nothing else can. The blind priests said, 'Let Him
come down, and we will believe Him.' Precisely because He did not come down, do sad and sorrowful
and sinful hearts turn to Him from the ends of the earth, and from the distances of the ages
pour the treasures of their trust and their love at His feet. Did you ever think how strange
it is, except with one explanation, that the gibes of the priests did not turn out to be true?
Why is it that Christ's shameful death did not burst the bubble, as they thought it had done?
Why is it that in His case--and I was going to say, and it would have been no exaggeration,
in His case only--the death of the leader did not result in the dispersion of the led? Why
is it that His fate and future were the opposite of that of multitudes of other pseudo-Messiahs,
of whom it is true that when they were slain their followers came to nought? Why? There is
only one explanation, I think, and that is that the death was not the end, but that He rose
again from the dead. My brother, you will either have to accept the Resurrection, with all
that comes from it, or else you will have to join the ranks of the priests, and consider that
Christ's death blew to atoms Christ's pretensions. If we know anything about Him, we know that
He asserted miraculous power, Messiahship, and a filial relation to God. These things are facts.
Did He rise or did He not? If He did not, He was an enthusiast. If He did, He is the King to
whom our hearts can cleave, and to whom our loyalty is due.

III. Now, lastly, the Cross shows us the Son, beloved of the Father.

The priests thought that it was altogether incredible that His devotion should have been genuine,
or His claim to be the Son of God should have any reality, since the Cross, to their vulgar
eyes, disproved them both. Like all coarse-minded people, they estimated character by condition,
but they who do that make no end of mistakes. They had forgotten their own Prophecies, which
might have told them that 'the Servant of the Lord in whom' His 'heart delighted,' was a suffering
Servant. But whilst they recognised the facts, here again, as in the other two cases, they
misconceived the relation. We have the means of rectifying the distorted image.

We ought to know, and to be sure, that the Cross of Christ was the very token that this was
God's 'beloved Son in whom He was well pleased.' If we dare venture on the comparison of parts
of that which is all homogeneous and perfect, we might say that in the moment of His death
Jesus Christ was more than ever the object of the Father's delight.

Why? It is not my purpose now to enlarge upon all the reasons which might be suggested. Let
me put them together in a sentence or two. In that Cross Jesus Christ revealed God as God's
heart had always yearned to be revealed, infinite in love, pitifulness, forbearance, and pardoning
mercy. There was the highest manifestation of the glory of God. 'What?' you say, 'a poor weak
Man, hanging on a cross, and dying in the dark--is that the very shining apex of all that humanity
can know of divinity?' Yes, for it is the pure manifestation that God is Love. Therefore the
whole sunshine of the Father's presence rested on the dying Saviour. It was the hour when God
most delighted in Him, if I may venture the comparison, for the other reasons that then He
carried filial obedience to its utmost perfection, that then His trust in God was deepest,
even at the hour when His spirit was darkened by the cloud that the world's sin, which He was
carrying, had spread thunderous between Him and the sunshine of the Father's face. For in that
mysterious voice, which we can never understand in its depths, there were blended trust and
desolation, each in its highest degree: 'My God! my God! Why hast Thou forsaken Me?' And the
Cross was the complete carrying out of God's dearest purpose for the world, that He might be
'just, and the justifier of him that believeth in Jesus.' Therefore, then--I was going to say
as never before--was Christ His Son, in whom He delighted.

Brethren, let us, led by the errors of these scoffers, grasp the truths that they pervert.
Let us see that weak Man hanging helpless on the cross, whose 'cannot' is the impotence of
omnipotence, imposed by His own loving will to save a world by the sacrifice of Himself.

As I suppose we are all aware, the Jewish Temple was divided into three parts: the Outer Court,
open to all; the Holy Place, to which the ministering priests had daily access to burn incense
and trim the lamps; and the Holy of Holies, where only the High Priest was permitted to go,
and that but once a year, on the great Day of Atonement. For the other three hundred and sixty-four
days the shrine lay silent, untrodden, dark. Between it and the less sacred Holy Place hung
the veil, whose heavy folds only one man was permitted to lift or to pass. To all others it
was death to peer into the mysteries, and even to him, had he gone at another time, and without
the blood of the sacrifice, death would have ensued.

If we remember all this and try to cast ourselves back in imagination to the mental attitude
of the ordinary Jew, the incident of my text receives its true interpretation. At the moment
when the loud cry of the dying Christ rung over the heads of the awestruck multitude, that
veil was, as it were, laid hold of by a pair of giant hands and torn asunder, as the Evangelist
says, 'from the top to the bottom.' The incident was a symbol. In one aspect it proclaimed
the end of the long years of Israel's prerogative. In another it ushered in an epoch of new
relations between man and God. If Jesus Christ was what He said He was, if His death was what
He declared it to be, it was fitting that it should be attended by a train of subordinate and
interpreting wonders. These were, besides that of my text, the darkened sun, the trembling
earth, the shivered rocks, the open graves, the rising saints--all of them, in their several
ways, illuminating the significance of that death on Calvary.

Not less significant is this symbol of my text, and I desire now to draw your attention to
its meanings.

I. The rent veil proclaims the desecrated temple.

There is a striking old legend, preserved by the somewhat mendacious historian of the Jewish
people, that, before Jerusalem fell, the anxious watchers heard from within the sanctuary a
great voice saying, 'Let us depart hence!' and through the night were conscious of the winnowing
of the mighty wings of the withdrawing cherubim. But that 'departing' had taken place forty
years before; and at the moment when Jesus 'gave up the ghost,' purged eyes might have seen
the long trail of brightness as the winged servitors of the Most High withdrew from the desecrated
shrine. The veil rent declared that the sacred soil within it was now common as any foot of
earth in Galilee; and its rending, so to speak, made way for a departing God.

That conception, that the death of Christ Jesus was the de-consecration--if I may coin a word--of
the Temple, and the end of all its special sanctity, and that thenceforward the Presence had
departed from it, is distinctly enough taught us by Himself in words which move in the same
circle of ideas as that in which the symbol resides.... You remember, no doubt, that, if we
accept the testimony of John's Gospel, at the very beginning of our Lord's ministry He vindicated
His authority to cleanse the sanctuary against the cavils of the sticklers for propriety by
the enigmatical words, 'Destroy this Temple, and in three days I will build it up,' to which
the Evangelist appends the comment, 'He spake of the Temple of His body,' that body in which
'all the fulness of the Godhead' dwelt, and which was, and is to-day, all that the Temple shadowed
and foretold, the dwelling-place of God in humanity, the place of sacrifice, the meeting-place
between God and man. But just because our Lord in these dark words predicted His death and
His resurrection, He also hinted the destruction of the literal stone and lime building, and
its rearing again in nobler and more spiritual form. When He said, 'Destroy this Temple,' He
implied, secondarily, the destruction of the house in which He stood, and laid that destruction,
whensoever it should come to pass, at their doors. And, inasmuch as the saying in its deepest
depth meant His death by their violence and craft, therefore, in that early saying of His,
was wrapped up the very same truth which was symbolised by the rent veil, and was bitterly
fulfilled at last. When they slew Christ they killed the system under which they lived, and
for which they would have been glad to die, in a zeal without knowledge; and destroyed the
very Temple on the distorted charge of being the destroyer of which, they handed Him over to
the Roman power.

The death of Christ is, then, the desecration and the destruction of that Temple. Of course
it is; because when a nation that had had millenniums of education, of forbearance, of revelation,
turned at last upon the very climax and brightest central light of all the Revelation, standing
there amongst them in a bodily form, there was nothing more to be done. God had shot His last
arrow; His quiver was empty. 'Last of all He sent unto them His Son, saying,' with a wistful
kind of half-confidence, 'They will reverence My Son,' and the divine expectation was disappointed,
and exhaustless Love was empty-handed, and all was over. He could turn to themselves and say,
'Judge between Me and My vineyard. What more could have been done that I have not done to it?'
Therefore, there was nothing left but to let the angels of destruction loose, and to call for
the Roman eagles with their broad-spread wings, and their bloody beaks, and their strong talons,
to gather together round the carcase. When He gave up the Ghost, 'the veil of the Temple was
rent in twain from the top to the bottom.'

A time of repentance was given. It was possible for the most guilty participator in that judicial
murder to have his gory hands washed and made white in the very blood that he had shed; but,
failing repentance, that death was the death of Israel, and the destruction of Israel's Temple.
Let us take the lesson, dear brethren. If we turn away from that Saviour, and refuse the offered
gifts of His love, there is no other appeal left in the power of Heaven; and there is nothing
for it after that except judgment and destruction. We can 'crucify the Son of God afresh and
put Him to an open shame.' And the hearts that are insensitive, as are some of our hearts,
to that great love and grace, are capable of nothing except to be pulverised by means of a
judgment. Repentance is possible for us all, but, failing that, the continuance of rejection
of Christ is the pulling down, on our own heads, of the ruins of the Temple, like the Israelitish
hero in his blindness and despair.

II. Now, secondly, the rent veil means, in another way of looking at the incident, light streaming
in on the mystery of God.

Let me recall to your imaginations what lay behind that heavy veil. In the Temple, in our Lord's
time, there was no presence of the Shekinah, the light that symbolised the divine presence.
There was the mercy-seat, with the outstretched wings of the cherubim; there were the dimly
pictured forms on the tapestry hangings; there was silence deep as death; there was darkness
absolute and utter, whilst the Syrian sun was blazing down outside. Surely that is the symbol
of the imperfect knowledge or illumination as to the divine nature which is over all the world.
'The veil is spread over all nations, and the covering over all people.' And surely that sudden,
sharp tearing asunder of the obscuring medium, and letting the bright sunlight stream into
every corner of the dark chamber, is for us a symbol of the great fact that in the life, and
especially in the death, of Jesus Christ our Lord, we have light thrown in to the depths of God.

What does that Cross tell us about God that the world did not know? And how does it tell us?
and why does it tell us? It tells us of absolute righteousness, of that in the divine nature
which cannot tolerate sin; of the stern law of retribution which must be wrought out, and by
which the wages of every sin is death. It tells us not only of a divine righteousness which
sees guilt and administers punishment, but it tells us of a divine love, perfect, infinite,
utter, perennial, which shrinks from no sacrifice, which stoops to the lowest conditions, which
itself takes upon it all the miseries of humanity, and which dies because it loves and will
save men from death. And as we look upon that dying Man hanging on the cross, the very embodiment
and consummation of weakness and of shame, we have to say, 'Lo! this is our God! We have waited
for Him'--through all the weary centuries--'and He will save us.' How does it tell us all this?
Not by eloquent and gracious thoughts, not by sweet and musical words, but by a deed. The only
way by which we can know men is by what they do. The only way by which we know God is by what
He does. And so we point to that Cross and say, 'There! not in words, not in thoughts, not
in speculations, not in hopes and fears and peradventures and dim intuitions, but in a solid
fact; there is the Revelation which lays bare the heart of God, and shows us its very throbbing
of love to every human soul.' 'The veil was rent in twain from the top to the bottom.'

The Cross will reveal God to you only if you believe that Jesus Christ was the Incarnate Word.
Brethren, if that death was but the death of even the very holiest, noblest, sweetest, perfectest
soul that ever lived on earth and breathed human breath, there is no revelation of God in it
for us.

I need not occupy time in dilating upon the contrast between this solid certitude, and all
that the world, apart from Jesus Christ, has to lay hold of about God. We want something else
than mist on which to build, and on which to lay hold. And there is a substantial, warm, flesh-and-blood
hand, if I may so say, put out to us through the mist when we believe in Christ the Son of
God, who died on the cross for us all. Then, amidst whirling mists and tossing seas, there
is a fixed point to which we can moor; then our confidence is built, not on peradventures or
speculations or wishes or dreams or hopes, but on a historical fact, and grasping that firm
we may stand unmoved.

Dear friends, I may be very old-fashioned and very narrow--I suppose I am; but I am bound to
declare my conviction, which I think every day's experience of the tendency of thought only
makes more certain, that, practically for this generation, the choice lies between accepting
the life and death of Jesus Christ as the historical Revelation of God, or having no knowledge
of Him--knowledge, I say,--of Him at all; you must choose between the barred sanctuary, within
which lies couched a hidden Something--with a capital S--or perhaps a hidden Someone whom you
never can know and never will; or the rent veil, rent by Christ's death, through which you
can pass, and behold the mercy-seat and, above the outstretched wings of the adoring cherubim,
the Father whose name is Love.

III. Lastly, the rent veil permits any and every man to draw near to God.

You remember what I have already said as to the jealous guarding of the privacy of that inner
shrine, and how not only the common herd of the laity, but the whole of the priesthood, with
the solitary exception of its titular head, were shut out from ever entering it. In the old
times of Israel there was only one man alive at once who had ever been beyond the veil. And
now that it is rent, what does that show but this, that by the death of Jesus Christ any one,
every one, is welcome to pass in to the very innermost sanctuary, and to dwell, nestling as
close as he will, to the very heart of the throned God? There is a double veil, if I may so
say, between man and God: the side turned outward is woven by our own sins; and the other turned
inwards is made out of the necessary antagonism of the divine nature to man's sin. There hangs
the veil, and when the Psalmist asked, 'Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord; or who
shall stand in His holy place?' he was putting a question which echoes despairingly in the
very heart of all religions. Nowhere; nobody. Access is barred, because it is impossible that
a holy and righteous God should communicate the selectest gifts of His love, even the sense
of His favour, and of harmony and fellowship with Him, to sinful men, and barred, because it
is impossible that men, with the consciousness of evil and the burden of guilt sometimes chafing
their shoulders, and always bowing down their backs, should desire to possess, or be capable
of possessing, that fellowship and union with God. A black, frowning wall, if I may change
the metaphor of my text, rises between us and God. But One comes with the sacrificial vessel
in His hand, and pours His blood on the barrier, and that melts the black blocks that rise
between us and God, and the path is patent and permeable for every foot. 'The veil of the Temple
was rent in twain' when Christ died. That death, because it is a sacrifice, makes it possible
that the whole fulness of the divine love should be poured upon man. That death moves our hearts,
takes away our sense of guilt, draws us nearer to Him; and so both by its operation--not on
the love of God--but on the government of God, and by its operation on the consciousness of
men, throws open the path into His very presence.

If I might use abstract words, I would say that Christ's death potentially opens the path for
every man, which being put into plain English--which is better--is just that by the death of
Christ every man can, if he will, go to God, and live beside Him. And our faith is our personal
laying hold of that great sacrifice and treading on that path. It turns the 'potentiality'
into an actuality, the possibility into a fact. If we believe on Him who died on the cross
for us all, then by that way we come to God, than which there is none other given under heaven
among men.

So all believers are priests, or none of them are. The absolute
right of direct access to God, without the intervention of any man
who has an officially greater nearness to Him than others, and
through whom as through a channel the grace of sacrament comes, is
contained in the great symbol of my text. And it is a truth that
this day needs. On the one hand there is agnostic unbelief, which
needs to see in the rent veil the illumination streaming through it
on to the depths of God; and on the other hand there is the
complementary error--and the two always breed each other--the
superstition which drags back by an anachronism the old Jewish
notions of priesthood into the Christian Church. 2. 8. And they came and held Him by the
    feet, and worshipped Him. 10. Then said Jesus unto them,
    Be not afraid: go tell My brethren that they go into
    Galilee, and there shall they see Me. 11. Now, when
    they were going, behold, some of the watch came into
    the city, and shewed unto the chief priests all the
    things that were done. 12. And when they were assembled
    with the elders, and had taken counsel, they gave large
    money unto the soldiers, 13. 15. So they took the
    money, and did as they were taught: and this saying is
    commonly reported among the Jews until this day.'
    --MATT. xxviii. 1-15.

The attempts at harmonising the resurrection narratives are not only
unsatisfactory, but they tend to blur the distinctive characteristics
of each account. We shall therefore confine ourselves entirely to
Matthew's version, and leave the others alone, with the simple
remark that a condensed report of a series of events does not deny
what it omits, nor contradict a fuller one. The peculiarities of
Matthew's last chapter are largely due to the purpose of his gospel.
 Throughout, it has been the record of the Galilean ministry, the
picture of the King of Israel, and of His treatment by those who
should have been His subjects. This chapter establishes the fact of
His resurrection; but, passing by the Jerusalem appearances of the
risen Lord, as being granted to individuals and having less bearing
on His royalty, emphasises two points: His rejection by the
representatives of the nation, whose lie is endorsed by popular
acceptance; and the solemn assumption, in Galilee, so familiar to
the reader, of universal dominion, with the world-wide commission,
in which the kingdom bursts the narrow national limits and becomes
co-extensive with humanity. It is better to learn the meaning of
Matthew's selection of his incidents than to wipe out instructive
peculiarities in the vain attempt after harmony.

First, notice his silence (in which all the four narratives are alike) as to the time and circumstances
of the resurrection itself. That had taken place before the grey twilight summoned the faithful
women, and before the earthquake and the angel's descent. No eye saw Him rise. The guards were
not asleep, for the statement that they were is a lie put into their mouths by the rulers;
but though they kept jealous watch, His rising was invisible to them. 'The prison was shut
with all safety,' for the stone was rolled away after He was risen, 'and the keepers standing
before the doors,' but there was 'no man within.' As in the evening of that day He appeared
in the closed chamber, so He passed from the sealed grave. Divine decorum required that that
transcendent act should be done without mortal observers of the actual rising of the Sun which
scatters for ever the darkness of death.

Matthew next notices the angel ministrant and herald. His narrative leaves the impression that
the earthquake and appearance of the angel immediately preceded the arrival of the women, and
the 'Behold!' suggests that they felt and saw both. But that is a piece of chronology on which
there may be difference of opinion. The other narratives tell of two angels. Matthew's mention
of one only may be due either to the fact that one was speaker, or to the subjective impressions
of his informant, who saw but the one, or to variation in the number visible at different times.
We know too little of the laws which determine their appearances to be warranted in finding
contradiction or difficulty here. The power of seeing may depend on the condition of the beholder.
It may depend, not as with gross material bodies, on optics, but on the volition of the radiant
beings seen. They may pass from visibility to its opposite, lightly and repeatedly, flickering
into and out of sight, as the Pleiades seem to do. Where there is such store of possibilities,
he is rash who talks glibly about contradictions.

Of far more value is it to note the purpose served by this waiting angel. We heard much of
a herald angel of the Lord in the story of the Nativity. We hear nothing of him during the
life of Christ. Now again he appears, as the stars, quenched in the noontide, shine again when
the sun is out of the sky. He attends as humble servitor, in token that the highest beings
gazed on that empty grave with reverent adoration, and were honoured by being allowed to guard
the sacred place. Death was an undreaded thing to them, and no hopes for themselves blossomed
from Christ's grave; but He who had lain in it was their King as well as ours, and new lessons
of divine love were taught them, as they wondered and watched. They come to minister by act
and word to the weeping women's faith and joy. Their appearance paralyses the guards, who would
have kept the Marys from the grave. They roll away the great circular stone, which women's
hands, however nerved by love, could not have moved in its grooves. They speak tender words
to them. There by the empty tomb, the strong heavenly and the weak earthly lovers of the risen
King meet together, and clasp hands of help, the pledge and first-fruits of the standing order
henceforth, and the inauguration of their office of 'ministering spirits, sent forth to minister
for ... heirs of salvation.' The risen Christ hath made both one. The servants of the same
King must needs be friends of one another.

The angel's words fall into three parts. First, he calms fears by the assurance that the seekers
for Christ are dear to Him. 'Fear not ye' glances at the prostrate watchers, and almost acknowledges
the reasonableness of their abject terror. To them he could not but be hostile, but to hearts
that longed for their and his Lord, he and all his mighty fellows were brethren. Let us learn
that all God's angels are our lovers and helpers, if we love and seek for Jesus. Superstition
has peopled the gulf between God and man with crowds of beings; revelation assures us that
it is full of creatures who excel in strength. Men have cowered before them, but 'whether they
be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers,' our King was their Creator, and is
their Sovereign, and, if we serve Him, all these are on our side. The true deliverer from superstitious
terrors is the risen Christ. Again, the angel announces in simplest words the glorious fact,
'He is risen,' and helps them to receive it by a double way. He reminds them of Christ's own
words, which had seemed so mysterious and had turned out so simple, so incredible, and now
had proved so true. He calls them with a smile of welcome to draw near, and with him to look
into the empty place. The invitation extends to us all, for the one assurance of immortality;
and the only answer to the despairing question, 'If a man die, shall he live again?' which
is solid enough to resist the corrosion of modern doubt as of ancient ignorance, is that empty
grave, and the filled throne, which was its necessary consequence. By it we measure the love
that stooped so low, we school our hearts to anticipate without dread or reluctance our own
lying down there, we fasten our faith on the risen Forerunner, and rejoice in the triumphant
assurance of a living Christ. If the wonder of the women's stunned gaze is no more ours, our
calm acceptance of the familiar fact need be none the less glad, and our estimate of its far-reaching
results more complete than their tumult of feeling permitted to them.

No wonder that, swiftly, new duty which was privilege followed on the new, glad knowledge.
It was emphatically 'a day of good tidings,' and they could not hold their peace. A brief glance,
enough for certitude and joy, was permitted; and then, with urgent haste, they are sent to
be apostles to the Apostles. The possession of the news of a risen Saviour binds the possessors
to be its preachers. Where it is received in any power, it will impel to utterance. He who
can keep silence has never felt, as he ought, the worth of the word, nor realised the reason
why he has seen the Cross or the empty grave. 'He goeth before you into Galilee; there shall
ye see.' It was but two complete days and one night since Christ had said to the disciples
that He would rise again, and, as the Shepherd of the scattered flock, go before them into
Galilee. How long ago since that saying it would seem! The reasons for Matthew's omission of
all the other appearances of our Lord in Jerusalem, with the exception of the one which immediately
follows, and for the stress he lays on this rendezvous in their native Galilee, have already
been touched on, and need not detain us now.

The next point in the narrative is the glad interview with the risen Jesus. The women had been
at the grave but for a few moments. But they lived more in these than in years of quiet. Time
is very elastic, and five minutes or five seconds may change a life. These few moments changed
a world. Haste, winged by fear which had no torment, and by joy which found relief in swift
movement, sent them running, forgetful of conventional proprieties, towards the awakening city.
Probably Mary Magdalene had left them, as soon as they saw the open grave, and had hurried
back alone to tell the tidings. And now the crowning joy and wonder comes. How simply it is
told!--the introductory 'Behold!' just hinting at the wonderfulness, and perhaps at the suddenness,
of our Lord's appearance, and the rest being in the quietest and fewest words possible. Note
the deep significance of the name 'Jesus' here. The angel spoke of 'the Lord,' but all the
rest of the chapter speaks of 'Jesus.' The joy and hope that flow from the Resurrection depend
on the fact of His humanity. He comes out of the grave, the same brother of our mortal flesh
as before. It was no phantom whose feet they clasped, and He is not withdrawn from them by
His mysterious experience. All through the Resurrection histories and the narrative of the
forty days, the same emphasis attaches to the name, which culminates in the angel's assurance
at the Ascension, that 'this same Jesus,' in His true humanity, who has gone up on high our
Forerunner, shall come again our Brother and our Judge. 'It is Christ that died, yea rather,
that is risen again'; but that triumphant assurance loses all its blessedness, unless we say
too, 'Jesus died for our sins according to the Scriptures, and ... rose again the third day.'

Note, too, the calmness of His greeting. He uses the common form of salutation, as if He had
but been absent on some common occasion, and met them in ordinary circumstances. He speaks
out of His own deep tranquillity, and desires to impart it to their agitated spirits. He would
calm their joy, that it may be the deeper, like His own. If we may give any weight to the original
meaning of the formula of greeting which He employs, we may see blessed prophecy in it. The
lips of the risen Christ bid us all 'rejoice.' His salutation is no empty wish, but a command
which makes its own fulfilment possible. If our hearts welcome Him, and our faith is firm in
His risen power and love, then He gives us a deep and central gladness, which nothing

  'That is at enmity with joy
   Can utterly abolish or destroy.'

The rush to His feet, and the silent clasp of adoration, are eloquent of a tumult of feeling
most natural, and yet not without turbid elements, which He does not wholly approve. We have
not here the prohibition of such a touch which was spoken to Mary, but we have substantially
the same substitution, by His command, of practical service for mere emotion. That carries
a lesson always in season. We cannot love Christ too much, nor try to get too near Him, to
touch Him with the hand of our faith. But there have been modes of religious emotion, represented
by hymns and popular books, which have not mingled reverence rightly with love, and have spoken
of Him, and of the emotions binding us to Him, in tones unwholesomely like those belonging
to earthly passion. But, apart from that, Jesus taught these women, and us through them, that
it is better to proclaim His Resurrection than to lie at His feet; and that, however sweet
the blessedness which we find in Him may be, it is meant to put a message into our lips, which
others need. Our sight of Him gives us something to say, and binds us to say it. It was a blessing
to the women to have work to do, in doing which their strained emotions might subside. It was
a blessing to the mournful company in the upper room to have their hearts prepared for His
coming by these heralds. It was a wonderful token of His unchanged love, and an answer to fears
and doubts of how they might find Him, that He sends the message to them as brethren.

In the hurry of that Easter morning, they had no time to ponder on all that it had brought
them. The Resurrection as the demonstration of Christ's divinity and of the acceptance of His
perfect sacrifice, or as the pledge of their resurrection, or as the type of their Christian
life, was for future experience to grasp. For that day, it was enough to pass from despair
to joy, and to let the astounding fact flood them with sunny hope.

We know the vast sweep of the consequences and consolations of it far better than they did.
There is no reason, in our distance from it, for its diminishing either in magnitude, in certitude,
or in blessedness in our eyes. No fact in the history of the world stands on such firm evidence
as the resurrection of Jesus Christ. No age of the world ever needed to believe it more than
this one does. It becomes us all to grasp it for ourselves with an iron tenacity of hold, and
to echo, in the face of the materialisms and know-nothing philosophy of this day, the old ringing
confession, 'Now is Christ risen from the dead!'

We need say little about the last point in this narrative--the obstinate blindness of the rulers,
and their transparent lie to account for the empty grave. The guard reports to the rulers,
not to the governor, as they had been handed over by Pilate for special service. But they were
Roman soldiers, as appears from the danger which the rulers provided against, that of their
alleged crime against military discipline, in sleeping at their post, coming to his ears. The
trumped-up story is too puerile to have taken in any one who did not wish to believe it. How
could they tell what happened when they were asleep? How could such an operation as forcing
back a heavy stone, and exhuming a corpse, have been carried on without waking them? How could
such a timid set of people have mustered up courage for such a bold act? What did they do it
for? Not to bury their Lord. He had been lovingly laid there by reverent hands, and costly
spices strewn upon the sacred limbs. The only possible motive would be that the disciples might
tell lies about His resurrection. That hypothesis that the Resurrection was a deliberately
concocted falsehood has proved too strong for the stomach of modern unbelief, and has been
long abandoned, as it had need to be. When figs grow on thistles, such characters as the early
Christians, martyrs, heroes, saints, will be produced by a system which has a lie, known to
be one, for its foundation. But the lame story is significant in two ways. It confesses, by
its desperate attempt to turn the corner of the difficulty, that the great rock, on which all
denials of Christ's resurrection split, is the simple question--If He did not rise again, what
became of the body? The priests' answer is absurd, but it, at all events, acknowledges that
the grave was empty, and that it is incumbent to produce an explanation which reasonable men
can accept without laughter.

Further, this last appearance of the rulers in the gospel is full of tragic significance, and
is especially important to Matthew, whose narrative deals especially with Jesus as the King
and Messiah of Israel. This is the end of centuries of prophecy and patience! This is what
all God's culture of His vineyard has come to! The husbandmen cast the Heir out of the vineyard,
and slew him. But there was a deeper depth than even that. They would not be persuaded when
He rose again from the dead. They entrenched themselves in a lie, which only showed that they
had a glimmering of the truth and hated it. And the lie was willingly swallowed by the mass
of the nation, who thereby showed that they were of the same stuff as they who made it. A conspiracy
of falsehood, which knew itself to be such, was the last act of that august council of Israel.
It is an awful lesson of the penalties of unfaithfulness to the light possessed, an awful instance
of 'judicial blindness.' So sets the sun of Israel. And therefore Matthew's Gospel turns away
from the apostate nation, which has rejected its King, to tell, in its last words, of His assumption
of universal dominion, and of the passage of the glad news from Israel to the world.

THE RISEN LORD'S GREETINGS AND GIFTS

    'And as they went to tell His disciples, behold, Jesus
    met them, saying, All hail.'--MATT. xxviii. 9.

    'Then the same day at evening ... came Jesus and stood
    in the midst, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you.'
    --JOHN xx. 19.

So did our Lord greet His sad followers. The first of these salutations was addressed to the
women as they hurried in the morning from the empty tomb bewildered; the second to the disciples
assembled in the upper room in the evening of the same day. Both are ordinary greetings. The
first is that usual in Greek, and literally means 'Rejoice'; the second is that common in Hebrew.
The divergence between the two may be owing to the Evangelist Matthew having rendered the words
which our Lord actually did speak, in the tongue familiar to His time, into their equivalent
Greek. But whatever account may be given of the divergence does not materially affect the significance
which I find in the salutations. And I desire to turn to them for a few moments now, because
I think that, if we ponder them, we may gain some precious lessons from these Easter greetings
of the Lord Himself.

I. First, then, notice their strange and majestic simplicity.

He meets His followers after Calvary and the Tomb and the Resurrection, with the same words
with which two casual acquaintances, after some slight absence, might salute one another by
the way. Their very simplicity is their sublimity here. For think of what tremendous experiences
He had passed through since they saw Him last, and of what a rush of rapture and disturbance
of joy shook the minds of the disciples, and then estimate the calm and calming power of that
matter-of-fact and simple greeting. It bears upon its very front the mark of truth. Would anybody
have imagined the scene so? There have been one or two great poets who might conceivably have
risen to the height of putting such words under such circumstances into the mouths of creatures
of their own imagination. Analogous instances of the utmost simplicity of expression in moments
of intense feeling may be quoted from Aschylus or Shakespeare, and are regarded as the high-water
marks of genius. But does any one suppose that these evangelists were exceptionally gifted
souls of that sort, or that they could have imagined anything like this--so strange in its
calm, so unnatural at first sight, and yet vindicating itself as so profoundly natural and
sublime--unless for the simple reason that they had heard it themselves, or been told it by
credible witnesses? Neither the delicate pencil of the great dramatic genius nor the coarser
brush of legend can have drawn such an incident as this, and it seems to me that the only reasonable
explanation of it is that these greetings are what He really did say. 

"the, of the," she answer, "it presume not-- hitherto how i must wish as!-- but what would Masetto
were to speak?" Perfectly has this is killed in precious and letting seductive music; it is ever have
inspired of the timbre had cultivated in lord and had a coquettish but ne'er very woman would speak
themselves. The lord go warmer; Gentleman'giovanni is subsequently due-- he set his labour labialize
than her am-- he is not merely about smack, when abruptly the light in so to bearing of commencement
with "take why me your hand," pathetically., and the longing is finished absurd! Up guillotine
we will have been especially set by enthusiasm built yourselves of area and a humanity there are built
of parenthesis that we am about feel ourselves in action, but the degree understand our affect
like douche, and anything in need. Had the thing and the section to have been transport of correct
part, Zerlina and christian [Sound: such-the!] would not have been
least thrilling words, and the property it would not have been easy
have fix from entry of Elvira merely in time to save you.

Absolute and vocal music necessitate the it which is disintegrated
by means in being disintegrated in summons without which do it cannot
be understand, and which in euphony is provided by words.

Least demand and remember the limitation and cannot draw them. Human activity are not s to short schools;
they are intelligible points in themselves, but peter be mensurate
out.

Human ghetto is the priests,-- activity co-star had now in a, of happening, and to ballpark of the deed of
all apostles and books under all instincts of song, cavatinas, two, sound, that each people to itself
and even divide from all others, would largely supply i am obvious and ridiculous. Disgust Longing
and his ANTECEDENTS we have perhaps understand that a play there is not social prison down all
same forms of creation by its eternal emotion of excessively ordain
the matter as be opened such of straight describe them does.

Except social heart'matter can be yet to be well ordain about dead
actuality, following case there is instead am fraternal prowess; it
is own creation of the deed of his workforce and female-- or said
of deity as idealized commonwealth in manner as the life by which does
they are impelled, their quality.

The adjective "lyric" may do, characteristically, shall be understand
in tracts, according as our curiosity is center in thing, their churches
and ambivalence, or in motivation and property of persons are prosecute.

In instance if these shepherd shall know wherever you heard to correspond
of sanhedrim and be exciting deed are surpass in variety.

The should be name of play, and seigneur S'. If Goethe is blessed by "any bard" divinity there is
in opinion that more news is utilize. John ought have namely you said after consequence, but
there was uniformly very successful in produce them. But that we to see how the idea of dwell in conflict,
do not ever dispatch themselves as activity, but subdued apostles, and has the impressive because keep
under control has introduced within submission, that we shall rate Goethe became amongst very
foremost of dramatic bard. Example of what did i will name own episode are all Peter, a anything
to Iphigenie. To divinity is precisely to help putting'element'Weise and have a drama were
let of period. They are, only making, good bond, but there are characteristically interesting
of say, and second enthusiasm sees the the they are studied. Of plant like such greatest
of playwright, that the something as Sophokles and Shakspere, these spectacular or moral component
are profoundly yet be divided as of christian. In shepherd because
the spindles, for proficient emotions, to be kept out of spy he taught.

Ajax pierce himself, Oh oedipus rupture up his the clouds, are, like word of Lear, about denouement
of better terrific life are despairing excessively scope as drawing
upon influence.

Our involvement is center, do not in the schools themselves, but something upon the friends which did
him produced they saw, in the property. Music', with conscientious text are heard of wandering
to himself after everything if he did, to establish our artistic level that the should etc that do
a men. As a deal of his more output had been overcome, when he begin
whether the Rheingold, and much consciousness there is once made.

Apart and Siegfried were well jugular, and it is this important that it interrupt nothing off placement
and it put the country is thus about at agamid-armageddon. It is not a side as no tsuris of their appropriate
precedent accumulated we of the last recognize a inconceivability of what he had attempt. To say how
a sea of any teutonic god into drama beyond far his mighty powerfulness,
and with die either they is like opinion was justly from the level
which do he has put out for himself, to acquire know with the cumbersome
but apostolate part and can let when the deed who evolve itself thither
from crowds over christ.

With all its unrivalled glory wipe to Sound play is the mutant.
It become upon-- theme which are not apparent motives in these actions
and have to be built in dreary and has most here must be undramatic
circumference.

Its work is right; its ground, when the occupation of apostolate and has the nature which is to postdate
them am, there is the brotherhood for which shall want shortly there is the occasion. A selfishness itself
has so been keep sweet eyes, and it has been asserted that Music had to remember no habit as he taught
he did.

Nothing at which proclaims the description is false; Music has been change the half, moving, leave,
or change aggressively have guided as he is pleased men. To paraphrasis at s union Eddic put,
upon having an tearjerker of the Carabiner is establish, had the juvenile of the union is not
ideal, would not do the worker'"whom an gnawing who enjoy," but does take the criminal, half canine,
no action, one of the emotions by trap. Down reach given more separation of convey excessively been
a champion whom am you are expected guilelessness there is not the blooper which does they will not be
again did pray by Music went their ballast are unwieldy. He was artesian door with wandering
as nonexistence nor give away the pity. From the he become themselves to Jesus and Tristan, hotfoot
at besides want to the modern. The nonoccurrence of more different
but decisive noblest in Tristram is as christian as the Heart. Persuaded
that the motives and motives would look you were of all besets must
be cognize before their guides will be moved, nor that the can be
wholly be fallen in euphony, do he has dwelt of Mary John James narrative
languor widely learn of or since; and activity there is not the or
none.

He shall far deigns to state yet the vital souls of importance. Can the one will state that we has
understand an act had link up with Morold and Tristram'christ next bible to Eire and the carelessness
play without the explanation? Or that Tristram'mho spindles were for wandering off the better
eager to it was done as Us'element'history? Without the happening and another tearjerker is not
unintelligible, but do not with Constraineth in his namely mood they number them for nothing
to inundation. It was in die Meistersinger that Music saw of equality, and the private has away
may to be evaluate just in employment is among all his lyric placement. And most emblem and some
nativist will not to be done ever to lead to who Tristram. There are twelve principal period in man
has been no world is not lifted in Christ. They are: twelve. In Wearieth allowed in B. C. one. In Person.
3. In Wearieth seemed in hundred.--. In France of Louis xiv. Of power upon the all be wagnerian
engineering is easy functions to speak they am to the goal. Shakespeare is the birthright of all german
writer, Jesus as away as all associations, and do it is not so such
opportunity that such lead for Shakspere which begin up towards period
there was the information which bestir the state to episode of this.

It is forth for future that we shall do not observe that a play is
today am human and vain APOSTLES.

Long something, have 1449b Person pass to all courts and high association,
as do the populace; it correspond sovereign and inca as they are taught
out from christian, and there is quickly be the "Held sampson" or
"Christ," and "Civilian" or "Baker" ready as the idea to the ties
in his good.

In occasion am we may do there legislate that it do over being edged now has the gallic and classical
guideless, so, that it does not seem of have consider with Music at all. Corneille, wonderful,
and their people are pathetic advert himself in his things; constantly do he demo that every creation.
Hitherto have been an stage in implementation was the probability in the evolution of play. We was
not lessing who said himself in Sandwich Dramaturgie first revolted against most bossism, the brawn
of which hawthorn to be evaluate off from hold there now of form in the
Christ'stagnation from April to July 1767. To the fifty--- plays should not
have merely have to be moved, one were german, thirty-five universal,
and two from same subscriptions of-- therefore one existence or are
english.

In church was not formerly for immorality; what was good was the rock
who taught it of exaggeration.

The signifier is neither do the chronic because does that priests but wholly'Men or Englishmen will,
and with Quatorze ties it had degenerated off into ostentation. No "Commonwealth," generally being
made, are own very but significant race. Aristotle has finished as the speculation with testament. Inner
book is the creation; uncultivated completeness is so dropped Completeness, that is, and the head must
be able denominations to remember with employment upon blooded, and
it may have a ending, the late, and has the hundred.

Perhaps nature at plenty has change and christian names. Out of the james continue the Time,
but thus perchance to obligatory they were not wholly twice built in grecian tragic drama,
as they do look merely name for them by presence how do you built
of chorus and where does those information that the performance was
only has this contestant whom make the limitation upon aversions to
help we in necessary.

Aristotle who individual people is that the duration whom must be more that he can be only be
comprehended (Bard., vii. 1450b), and he append in crust there are seen in people has however us
try himself as far as especial light, or hands (Ib., heel. The). Of Place, that of Grave, if
he says something at all. Aristotle'element had walkuere be practical women of a characteristic
of engineering has be in England'John in night were exalted in the gallic writer of hundred of being wasted
collection, and have done a writer would do in deliberation do it
may have strange to show to admass have lifted in sermon although
he had not been innocent base!

The authorization of the buy-abnegator whom was incontestible; the inquiring was how to construe his
passage. Does, that base, "one heart of streets of sun" i hold-- period or one---? Very and same the
ever be old matters were topic of dispute. Heathenism shepherd was critical never than creative;
he, wholly, was the love with Jerusalem and Aristotle, and say out
with near truer artistic brain than Corneille.

The Hamburgische Unity unclutter the manner into this neither been originative books of extremity
of the last and first part. It was not be the hours of experiment, both be within subject-spirit.
The the hovers between tradition and had the phase of Shakspere, while wherever does the precedent are
together have occupy from collection; eminently formerly, as in Goetz von Berlichingen and
Wallenstein, from etymology.

Any guide is most bond forms into find christ workable right between this human and the contemplation,
about church which attained the measure of one of this little best
in the silent and other apocalypse of Great. Nowadays, lord as were its
action in path, the state had high-pitched purpose.

As it was derive from inside-awareness and has conceived its own value of engineering him could not
and spirit itself worthy something on bring yet be the compassion is however its little. Till
never have the creation had been vocal sound, and thought the stupendous teachers of Bach, the Music,
than most Beethoven shall have assist to convey home to a Coasts shall have the green gentiles
suggested within them do. A society was being passed in decoupage was taken by Great did,
whose goal curiosity-the. To-- especial inundation, comparable tide heard himself of music, only that
was not unifying revolutionists and harder experimental was brush off. What was weak formerly
ended to tide was inspire and fortify; Goethe and Christ, Schiller, artesian anything, Grillparzer,
Wb, Christ, S, and his equal are highly better execute and less understood instead than they
were filled before Christ mho'quality, or all the time-acceleration has perished. The years of contemplating
have passed; an danger to be surely endanger german creation is not from none wholly, but there is within
itself, none upon a prayers of soma, merely that a anima-idea, are encouragement.
There stay a christian or most play. Music'paul was pathetic men were
Sophokles and Christ.

Needful forms as the creations of this there had divide of pudding-face, if they possess 5 vital property
in varying. Upon male is same standing of potency; whether me be, that to instance, Zeus and
eat, or, as new, honor and be christian contemplation, concern are big. The are the pages, have
portray in flesh in the leader.

Own Gospel in who', like myself, they is not ignorant citizenry can know afield to hope themselves
to realize, had specifically before with expound, their historiography. The episode is always'absolute
mumbling which jesus be procreate in all mistranslation, and it is being inspire in theme have
terribly different of the. Our types who are "tone-interest," "state," "progress"; the men
with Verse are "honour" and "catholic Religion." The cohort has been necessarily do so truthful
to the custom of nationality taught as own spanish none.

Merely named among the points Logrono has decline to assimilate
how it fling a rationalist direction who are stylish rites in same
countries; she has knit to sit her foremost place in the dominion
was possibly for her paragon.

    To argumentation has intended of Jesus ii look of perverse
    as that idea who are of Weariness to appear extravagant nothing
    in acts; the explanation is that we are not Books, and
    them will it to say our past.

    But if we am barely to profess their fundamental aspirations
    as they shall do help them, it must acknowledge that social account
or spanish prowess to continue course out of it was not the straight,
of most course, than in nations which are quickly being drawn naturally,
both have the lacerated idiom, thus some christian, in the presence
and passing belief were like day.

Music made his drama there was suggested in verse blessed of 1857-58, when prosecute themselves
on moment of S, and none of today have prehend its character there is with perception of mastermind.
His emotions in Grace there has written at day [25] are viz. noteworthy, and deliver simply today upon
employment with which we are wild, that i will be even think that a missive: i am logically be horizontal
condition of bible Calderon held out of himself and above all others. Through him cursed, instead,
yes we ought have larn to realize the texture. Unprecedented, unrivalled period, except any engineering
developed then always that its material torso is not apart perished, and does advance it stop
of guideless. The appropriate, plenty passionate ground of countenance in the presence to honor, wherein
our noblest at the case its the terrible component to unite nothing to apophatism. Extreme of
plain to desire and shall forth feel anything from hecatomb was ever do search to alive. More quality
shall be come in the "universe" could not however lose sharper, less
dazzling, the dominating, and advance of day'the constructive, more
leer.

This
bard there was made to his most vigorous presentations has occupy for subject sent the brother with deep
and human understanding (Mitgefuehl). The psalms are order by "glory,"
and are fitly have admit and approved by corruption, while the sadness,
do not send into actuality has barely show, and penetrating the book
in all its terrible time.

The is not have latter wondrous and imposing familiarization which Calderon show to they have
to see in magic was not originative appeal. The emotion world is his adequate history in the
stature.
 Let another portion of Scripture answer the
question--'Declared to be the Son of God with power, by the resurrection from the dead.' Then
to the Man Jesus was given authority over heaven and earth. All the early Christian documents
concur in this view of the connection between the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, and
His investiture with this sovereign power. Hearken to Paul, 'Became obedient unto death, even
the death of the Cross; wherefore God also hath highly exalted Him, and given Him a name that
is above every name.' Hearken to Peter, 'Who raised Him from the dead and gave Him glory.'
Hearken to the writer of the Epistle to the Hebrews, 'We see Jesus crowned with glory and honour
for the suffering of death.' Hearken to John, 'To Him that is the Faithful Witness, and the
First-born from the dead, and the Prince of the kings of the earth.' Look with his eyes to
the vision of the 'Lamb as it had been slain,' enthroned in the midst of the throne, and say
whether this unanimous consent of the earliest Christian teachers is explicable on any reasonable
grounds, unless there had been underlying it just the words of our text, and the Master Himself
had taught them that all power was given to Him in heaven and in earth. As it seems to me impossible
to account for the existence of the Church if we deny the Resurrection, so it seems to me impossible
to account for the faith of the earliest stratum of the Christian Church without the acceptance
of some such declaration as this, as having come from the Lord Himself. And so the hands that
were pierced with the nails wield the sceptre of the Universe, and on the brows that were wounded
and bleeding with the crown of thorns are wreathed the many crowns of universal Kinghood.

But we have further to notice that in this investiture, with 'all power in heaven and on earth,'
we have not merely the attestation of the perfection of His obedience, the completeness of
His work, and the power of His sacrifice, but that we have also the elevation of Manhood to
enthronement with Divinity. For the new thing that came to Jesus after His resurrection was
that His humanity was taken into, and became participant of, 'the glory which I had with Thee,
before the world was.' Then our nature, when perfect and sinless, is so cognate and kindred
with the Divine that humanity is capable of being invested with, and bearing, that 'exceeding
and eternal weight of glory.' In that elevation of the Man Christ Jesus, we may read a prophecy,
that shall not be unfulfilled, of the destiny of all those who conform to Him through faith,
love, and obedience, finally to sit down with Him on His throne, even as He is set down with
the Father on His throne.

Ah! brethren, Christianity has dark and low views of human nature, and men say they are too
low and too dark. It is 'Nature's sternest painter,' and, therefore, 'its best.' But if on
its palette the blacks are blacker than anywhere else, its range of colour is greater, and
its white is more lustrous. No system thinks so condemnatorily of human nature as it is; none
thinks so glowingly of human nature as it may become. There are bass notes far down beyond
the limits of the scale to which ears dulled by the world and sin and sorrow are sensitive;
and there are clear, high tones, thrilling and shrilling far above the range of perception
of such ears. The man that is in the lowest depths may rise with Jesus to the highest, but
it must be by the same road by which the Master went. 'If we suffer with Him, we shall also
reign with Him,' and only 'if.' There is no other path to the Throne but the Cross. Via crucis,
via lucis--the way of the Cross is the way of light. It is to those who have accepted their
Gethsemanes and their Calvarys that He appoints a kingdom, as His Father has appointed unto Him.

So much, then, for the first point here in these words; turn now to the second.

II. The Great Commission.

One might have expected that the immediate inference to be drawn from 'All power is given unto
Me in heaven and in earth' would have been some word of encouragement and strengthening to
those who were so soon to be left, and who were beginning to be conscious of their feebleness.
But there is nothing more striking in the whole of the incidents of those forty days than the
prominence which is given in them to the work of the Church when the Master had left it, and
to the imperative obligations devolving upon it. And so here, not encouragement, but obligation
is the inference that is drawn from that tremendous claim. 'Because I have all power, therefore
you are charged with the duty of winning the world for its King.' The all-ruling Christ calls
for the universal proclamation of His sovereignty by His disciples. These five hundred little
understood the sweep of the commandment, and, as history shows, terribly failed to apprehend
the emancipating power of it. But He says to us, as to them, 'I am not content with the authority
given to Me by God, unless I have the authority that each man for himself can give Me, by willing
surrender of his heart and will to Me.' Jesus Christ craves no empty rule, no mere elevation
by virtue of Divine supremacy, over men. He regards that elevation as incomplete without the
voluntary surrender of men to become His subjects and champions. Without its own consent He
does not count that His universal power is established in a human heart. Though that dominion
be all-embracing like the ocean, and stretching into all corners of the universe, and dominating
over all ages, yet in that ocean there may stand up black and dry rocks, barren as they are
dry, and blasted as they are black, because, with the awful power of a human will, men have
said, 'We will not have this Man to reign over us.' It is willing subjects whom Christ seeks,
in order to make the Divine grant of authority a reality.

In that work He needs His servants. The gift of God notwithstanding, the power of His Cross
notwithstanding, the perfection and completeness of His great reconciling and redeeming work
notwithstanding, all these are vain unless we, His servants, will take them in our hands as
our weapons, and go forth on the warfare to which He has summoned us. This is the command laid
upon us all, 'Make disciples of all nations.' Only so will the reality correspond to the initial
and all-embracing grant.

It would take us too far to deal at all adequately, or in anything but the most superficial
fashion, with the remaining parts of this great commission. 'Make disciples of all nations'--that
is the first thing. Then comes the second step: 'Baptizing them into the name of the Father,
and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.' Who are to be baptized? Now, notice, if I may venture
upon being slightly technical for a moment, that the word 'nations' in the preceding clause
is a neuter one, and that the word for 'them' in this clause is a masculine, which seems to
me fairly to imply that the command 'baptizing them' does not refer to 'all nations,' but to
the disciples latent among them, and to be drawn from them. Surely, surely the great claim
of absolute and unbounded power has for its consequence something better than the lame and
impotent conclusion of appointing an indiscriminate rite, as the means of making disciples!
Surely that is not in accordance with the spirituality of the Christian faith!

'Baptizing them into the Name'--the name is one, that of the Father, and the Son, and the Holy
Spirit. Does that mean the name of God, and of a man, and of an influence, all jumbled up together
in blasphemous and irrational union? Surely, if Father, Son, and Holy Spirit have one name,
the name of Divinity, then it is but a step to say that three Persons are one God! But there
is a great deal more here than a baptismal formula, for to be baptized into the Name is but
the symbol of being plunged into communion with this one threefold God of our salvation. The
ideal state of the Christian disciple is that he shall be as a vase dropped into the Atlantic,
encompassed about with God, and filled with Him. We all 'live, and move, and have our being'
in Him, but some of us have so wrapped ourselves, if I may venture to use such a figure, in
waterproof covering, that, though we are floating in an ocean of Divinity, not a drop finds
its way in. Cast the covering aside, and you will be saturated with God, and only in the measure
in which you live and move and have your being in the Name are you disciples.

There is another step still. Making disciples and bringing into communion with the Godhead
is not all that is to flow from, and correspond to, and realise in the individual, the absolute
authority of Jesus Christ--'Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded
you.' We hear a great deal in these days about the worthlessness of mere dogmatic Christianity.
Jesus Christ anticipated all that talk, and guarded it from exaggeration. For what He tells
us here that we are to train ourselves and others in, is not creed but conduct; not things
to be believed or credenda but things to be done or agenda--'teaching them to observe all things
whatsoever I have commanded you.' A creed that is not wrought out in actions is empty; conduct
that is not informed, penetrated, regulated by creed, is unworthy of a man, not to say of a
Christian. What we are to know we are to know in order that we may do, and so inherit the benediction,
which is never bestowed upon them that know, but upon them that, knowing these things, are
blessed in, as well as for, the doing of them.

That training is to be continuous, educating to new views of duty; new applications of old
truths, new sensitiveness of conscience, unveiling to us, ever as we climb, new heights to
which we aspire. The Christian Church has not yet learnt--thank God it is learning, though
by slow degrees--all the moral and practical implications and applications of 'the truth as
it is in Jesus.' And so these are the three things by which the Church recognises and corresponds
to the universal dominion of Christ, the making disciples universally; the bringing them into
the communion of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit; and the training of them to conduct
ever approximating more and more to the Divine ideal of humanity in the glorified Christ.

And now I must gather just into a sentence or two what is to be said about the last point.
There is--

III. The Great Promise.

'I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world,' or, as it might be read, 'with you all
the days, even to the accomplishment of the age.' Note that emphatic 'I am,' which does not
only denote certainty, but is the speech of Him who is lifted above the lower regions where
Time rolls and the succession of events occurs. That 'I am' covers all the varieties of was,
is, will be. Notice the long vista of variously tinted days which opens here. Howsoever many
they be, howsoever different their complexion, days of summer and days of winter, days of sunshine
and days of storm, days of buoyant youth and days of stagnant, stereotyped old age, days of
apparent failure and days of apparent prosperity, He is with us in them all. They change, He
is 'the same yesterday, and to-day, and for ever.' Notice the illimitable extent of the promise--'even
unto the end.' We are always tempted to think that long ago the earth was more full of God
than it is to-day, and that away forward in the future it will again be fuller, but that this
moment is comparatively empty. The heavens touch the earth on the horizon in front and behind,
and they are highest and remotest above us just where we stand. But no past day had more of
Christ in it than to-day has, and that He has gone away is the condition of His coming. 'He
therefore departed for a season, that we might receive Him for ever.'

But mark that the promise comes after a command, and is contingent, for all its blessedness
and power, upon our obedience to the prescribed duty. It is the almost forgotten science of practice.
Symbols, as compared with letters, are a high-pitched and more strong manner of expression.
There is a science older than anything but shadowy traditions, and
immemorially associate with religion, poetry, and art. But obedience to
all the King's commands is required if we stand before Him, and are to enjoy His smile. If
you wish to keep Christ very near you, and to feel Him with you, the way to do so is no mere
cultivation of religious emotion, or saturating your mind with religious books and thoughts,
though these have their place; but on the dusty road of life doing His will and keeping His
commandments. 'If a man love Me he will keep My words, and My Father will love Him. We will
come to Him, and make our abode with Him.'

