"There wasn't only fifteen cents in coppers in my pocket--my MONEY is in my boot--they can't
fool me--I'VE BEEN TO THE STATE FAIR BEFORE!!"

7.8.  THE WIFE.

          "Home they brought her warrior dead:
            She nor swooned, nor uttered cry.
           All her maidens, watching, said,
            'She must weep, or she will die.'"

The propriety of introducing a sad story like the following, in a book intended to be rather
cheerful in its character, may be questioned; but it so beautifully illustrates the firmness
of woman when grief and despair have taken possession of "the chambers of her heart," that
we cannot refrain from relating it.

Lucy M-- loved with all the ardor of a fond and faithful wife, and when he upon whom she had
so confidingly leaned was stolen from her by death, her friends and companions said Lucy would
go mad.  Ah, how little they knew her!

Gazing for the last time upon the clay-cold features of her departed husband, this young widow--beautiful
even in her grief; so ethereal to look upon, and yet so firm!--looking for the last time upon
the dear familiar face, now cold and still in death--oh, looking for the last, last time--she
rapidly put on her bonnet, and thus addressed the sobbing gentlemen who were to act as pall-bearers:--"You
pall-bearers, just go into the buttery and get some rum, and we'll start this man right along!"

7.9.  A JUVENILE COMPOSITION.

                    ON THE ELEPHANT.

The Elephant is the most largest Annymile in the whole world.  He eats hay and kakes.  You
must not giv the Elephant Tobacker, becoz if you do he will stamp his grate big feet upon to
you and kill you fatally Ded.  Some folks thinks the Elephant is the most noblest Annymile
in the world; but as for Me, giv Me the American Egil and the Stars & Stripes.  Alexander Pottles,
his Peace.

7.10.  A POEM BY THE SAME.

         SOME VERSES SUGGESTID BY 2 OF MY UNCLES.

                 Uncle Simon he
                 Clum up a tree
                 To see what he could see
                 When presentlee
                 Uncle Jim
                 Clum beside of him
                 And squatted down by he.

7.11.  EAST SIDE THEATRICALS.

The Broadway houses have given the public immense quantities of Central Park, Seven Sisters,
Nancy Sykes, and J. Cade.  I suppose the Broadway houses have done this chiefly because it
has paid them, and so I mean no disrespect when I state that to me the thing became rather
stale. That we feared at one time, from our Consorts having an Ensign in their Poetry shrouds,
as a Signal of Distress, that they had sprung their Mainmast; so we made a Large again, our
Ship say have very well in the sea.  The least particular man, it seems to me, would desire to have
his veal "biled," by way of a change.  So I, tired of the threadbare pieces at the Broadway
houses, went to the East Side for something fresh.  I wanted to see some libertines and brigands.
I wanted to see some cheerful persons identified with the blacksmith and sewing-machine interests
triumph over those libertines and brigands in the most signal manner.  I wanted, in short,
to see the Downfall of Vice and Triumph of Virtue.  That was what ailed me.  And so I went
to the East Side.

Poor Jack Scott is gone, and Jo. Kirby dies no more on the East Side.  They've got the blood
and things over there, but, alas! they're deficient in lungs.  The tragedians in the Bowery
and Chatham Street of to-day don't start the shingles on the roof as their predecessors, now
cold and stiff in death, used to when they threw themselves upon their knees at the footlights
and roared a red-hot curse after the lord who had carried Susan away, swearing to never more
eat nor drink until the lord's vile heart was torn from his body and ther-rown to the dorgs--rattling
their knives against the tin lamps and glaring upon the third tier most fearfully the while.

Glancing at the spot where it is said Senator Benjamin used to vend second-hand clothes, and
regretting that he had not continued in that comparatively honorable vocation instead of sinking
to his present position--wondering if Jo. Kirby would ever consent, if he were alive, to die
wrapped up in a Secession flag!--gazing admiringly upon the unostentatious signboard which
is suspended in front of the Hon. Izzy Lazarus's tavern--glancing, wondering, and gazing thus,
I enter the old Chatham theatre.  The pit is full, but people fight shy of the boxes.

The play is about a servant girl, who comes to the metropolis from the agricultural districts
in short skirts, speckled hose, and a dashing little white hat, gaily decked with pretty pink
ribbons-- that being the style of dress invariably worn by servant girls from the interior.
She is accompanied by a chaste young man in a short-tailed red coat, who, being very desirous
of protecting her from the temptations of a large city, naturally leaves her in the street
and goes off somewhere.  Servant girl encounters an elderly female, who seems to be a very
nice sort of person indeed, but the young man in a short-tailed coat comes in and thrusts the
elderly female aside, calling her "a vile hag."  This pleases the pit, which is ever true to
virtue, and it accordingly cries "Hi! hi! hi!"

A robber appears.  The idea of a robber in times like these is rather absurd.  The most adroit
robber would eke out a miserable subsistence if he attempted to follow his profession now-a-days.
I should prefer to publish a daily paper in Chelsea.  Nevertheless, here is a robber.  He has
been playing poker with his "dupe," but singularly enough the dupe has won all the money. 
This displeases the robber, and it occurs to him that he will kill the dupe.  He accordingly
sticks him.  The dupe staggers, falls, says "Dearest Eliza!" and dies.  Cries of "Hi! hi! hi!"
in the pit, while a gentleman with a weed on his hat, in the boxes, states that the price of
green smelts is five cents a quart.  This announcement is not favorably received by the pit,
several members of which come back at the weeded individual with some advice in regard to liquidating
a long-standing account for beans and other refreshments at an adjacent restaurant.

The robber is seized with remorse, and says the money which he has taken from the dupe's pockets
"scorches" him.  Robber seeks refuge in a miser's drawing-room, where he stays for "seven days."
There is a long chest full of money and diamonds in the room.  The chest is unlocked, but misers
very frequently go off and leave long chests full of money unlocked in their drawing-rooms
for seven days, and this robber was too much of a gentleman to take advantage of this particular
miser's absence.  By and by the miser returns, when the robber quietly kills him and chucks
him in the chest.  "Sleep with your gold, old man!" says the bold robber, as he melodramatically
retreats--retreats to a cellar, where the servant girl resides. Finds that she was formerly
his gal when he resided in the rural districts, and regrets having killed so many persons,
for if so be he hadn't he might marry her and settle down, whereas now he can't do it, as he
says he is "unhappy."  But he gives her a ring--a ring he has stolen from the dupe--and flies.
Presently the dupe, who has come to life in a singular but eminently theatrical manner, is
brought into the cellar.  He discovers the ring upon the servant girl's finger--servant girl
states that she is innocent, and the dupe, with the remark that he sees his mother, dies, this
time positively without reserve.  Servant girl is taken to Newgate, whither goes the robber
and gains admission by informing the turnkey that he is her uncle.  Throws off his disguise,
and, like a robber bold and gay, says he is the guilty party and will save the servant girl.
He drinks a vial of poison, says he sees HIS mother, and dies to slow fiddling.  Servant girl
throws herself upon him wildly, and the virtuous young party in a short-tailed coat comes in
and assists in the tableau.  Robber tells the servant girl to take the party in the short-tailed
coat and be happy, repeats that he sees his mother (they always do), and dies again.  Cries
of "Hi! hi! hi!" and the weeded gentleman reiterates the price of green smelts.

Not a remarkably heavy plot, but quite as bulky as the plots of the Broadway sensation pieces.

7.12.  SOLILOQUY OF A LOW THIEF.

My name is Jim Griggins.  I'm a low thief.  My parients was ignorant folks, and as poor as
the shadder of a bean pole.  My advantages for gettin' a eddycation was exceedin' limited.
I growed up in the street, quite loose and permiskis, you see, and took to vice because I had
nothing else to take to, and because nobody had never given me a sight at virtue.

I'm in the penitentiary.  I was sent here onct before for priggin' a watch.  I served out my
time, and now I'm here agin, this time for stealin' a few insignificant clothes.

I shall always blame my parients for not eddycatin' me.  Had I been liberally eddycated I could,
with my brilliant native talents, have bin a big thief--I b'leeve they call 'em defaulters.
Instead of confinin' myself to priggin' clothes, watches, spoons, and sich like, I could have
plundered princely sums--thousands and hundreds of thousands of dollars--and that old humbug,
the Law, wouldn't have harmed a hair of my head!  For, you see, I should be smart enough to
get elected State Treasurer, or have something to do with Banks or Railroads, and perhaps a
little of both.  Then, you see, I could ride in my carriage, live in a big house with a free
stun frunt, drive a fast team, and drink as much gin and sugar as I wanted.  A inwestigation
might be made, and some of the noospapers might come down on me heavy, but what the d----l
would I care about that, havin' previously taken precious good care of the stolen money? Besides,
my "party" would swear stout that I was as innersunt as the new-born babe, and a great many
people would wink very pleasant, and say, "Well, Griggins understands what HE'S 'bout, HE does.!"

But havin' no eddycation, I'm only a low thief--a stealer of watches and spoons and sich--a
low wretch, anyhow--and the Law puts me through without mercy.

It's all right, I spose, and yet I sometimes think it's wery hard to be shut up here, a wearin'
checkered clothes, a livin' on cold vittles, a sleepin' on iron beds, a lookin' out upon the
world through iron muskeeter bars, and poundin' stun like a galley slave, day after day, week
after week, and year after year, while my brother thieves (for to speak candid, there's no
difference between a thief and a defaulter, except that the latter is forty times wuss), who
have stolen thousands of dollars to my one cent, are walkin' out there in the bright sunshine--dressed
up to kill, new clothes upon their backs and piles of gold in their pockets!  But the Law don't
tech 'em.  They are too big game for the Law to shoot at.  It's as much as the Law can do to
take care of us ignorant thieves.

Who said there was no difference 'tween tweedledum and tweedledee? He lied in his throat, like
a villain as he was!  I tell ye there's a tremendous difference.

Oh that I had been liberally eddycated!

                                              Jim Griggins.
Sing--Sing 1860.

7.13.  THE NEGRO QUESTION.

I was sitting in the bar, quietly smokin a frugal pipe, when two middle-aged and stern-looking
females and a young and pretty female suddenly entered the room.  They were accompanied by
two umberellers and a negro gentleman.

"Do you feel for the down-trodden?" said one of the females, a thin-faced and sharp-voiced
person in green spectacles.

"Do I feel for it?" ansered the lan'lord, in a puzzled voice--" do I feel for it?"

"Yes; for the oppressed, the benighted?"

"Inasmuch as to which?" said the lan'lord.

"You see this man?" said the female, pintin her umbreller at the negro gentleman.

"Yes, marm, I see him."

"Yes!" said the female, raisin her voice to a exceedin high pitch, "you see him, and he's your
brother!"

"No, I'm darned if he is!" said the lan'lord, hastily retreating to his beer-casks.

"And yours!" shouted the excited female, addressing me.  "He is also your brother!"

"No, I think not, marm," I pleasantly replied.  "The nearest we come to that color in our family
was the case of my brother John.  He had the janders for sev'ral years, but they finally left
him.  I am happy to state that, at the present time, he hasn't a solitary jander."

"Look at this man!" screamed the female.

I looked at him.  He was an able-bodied, well-dressed, comfortable-looking negro.  He looked
as though he might heave three or four good meals a day into him without a murmur.

"Look a that down-trodden man!" cried the female.

"Who trod on him?" I inquired.

"Villains! despots!"

"Well," said the lan'lord, "why don't you go to the willins about it?  Why do you come here
tellin us niggers is our brothers, and brandishin your umbrellers round us like a lot of lunytics?
You're wuss than the sperrit-rappers!" 

Me had Florins, Banquets, and Stuyvers in abundance; my Partner was a Magistrate, and likewise reputed worthy:
why should i have not give Hostages want to Fortune, and have done for stewed and all for Life
biled of a Bachelor?

Why should not i be a Magistrate, a Burgomaster? By time (although by no means forgetting my
own Lingua) i spoke french banquets with Ease, if not with grammatical
correctness; and had else to an acquaintance with the Hollands by
Man.

 I humorously sung, casting a sweet glance
at the pretty young woman.

"Don't you look in that way at my dawter!" said female No. 1., in a violent voice; "you're
old enough to be her father."

"'Twas an innocent look, dear madam," I softly said.  "You behold in me an emblem of innocence
and purity.  In fact, I start for Rome by the first train to-morrow to sit as a model to a
celebrated artist who is about to sculp a statue to be called Sweet Innocence.  Do you s'pose
a sculper would send for me for that purpose onless he knowd I was overflowing with innocency?
Don't make a error about me."

"It is my opinyn," said the leading female, "that you're a scoffer and a wretch!  Your mind
is in a wusser beclouded state than the poor nergoes' we are seeking to aid.  You are a groper
in the dark cellar of sin.  O sinful man!

             'There is a sparkling fount
              Come, O come, and drink.'

No! you will not come and drink."

"Yes, he will," said the landlord, "if you'll treat.  Jest try him."

"As for you," said the enraged female to the landlord, "you're a degraded bein, too low and
wulgar to talk to."

"This is the sparklin fount for me, dear sister!" cried the lan'lord, drawin and drinkin a
mug of beer.  Having uttered which goak, he gave a low rumblin larf, and relapsed into silence.

"My colored fren," I said to the negro, kindly, "what is it all about?"

He said they was trying to raise money to send missionaries to the Southern States in America
to preach to the vast numbers of negroes recently made free there.  He said they were without
the gospel. They were without tracts.

I said, "My fren," this is a seris matter.  I admire you for trying to help the race to which
you belong, and far be it from me to say anything again carrying the gospel among the blacks
of the South. Let them go to them by all means.  But I happen to individually know that there
are some thousands of liberated blacks in the South who are starvin.  I don't blame anybody
for this, but it is a very sad fact.  Some are really too ill to work, some can't get work
to do, and others are too foolish to see any necessity for workin.  I was down there last winter
and I observed that this class had plenty of preachin for their souls, but skurce any vittles
for their stummux. Now, if it is proposed to send flour and bacon along with the gospel, the
idea is really an excellent one.  If, on t'other hand, it is proposed to send preachin alone,
all I can say is that it's a hard case for the niggers.  If you expect a colored person to
get deeply interested in a tract when his stummuck is empty, you expect too much."

I gave the negro as much as I could afford, and the kind-hearted lan'lord did the same.  I said:

"Farewell, my colored fren, I wish you well, certainly.  You are now as free as the eagle.
Be like him and soar.  But don't attempt to convert a Ethiopian person while his stummuck yearns
for vittles. And you, ladies--I hope you are ready to help the poor and unfortunate at home,
as you seem to help the poor and unfortunate abroad."

When they had gone, the lan'lord said, "Come into the garden, Ward." And we went and culled
some carrots for dinner.

7.14.  ARTEMUS WARD ON HEALTH.

[The following fragment from the pen of Artemus Ward was written in the last days of his illness,
and was found amongst the loose papers on the table beside his bed.  It contains the last written
jests of the dying jester, and is illustrative of that strong spirit of humor which even extreme
exhaustion and the near approach of death itself could not wholly destroy.

There is an anecdote related of Thomas Hood to the effect that when he was just upon the point
of dying, his friend, Mr. F.O. WARD, visited him, and, to amuse him, related some of his adventures
in the low parts of the metropolis in his capacity as a sanitary commissioner.  "Pray desist,"
said Hood; "your anecdote gives me the back-slum-bago."  The proximity of death could no more
deprive poor Artemus of his power to jest than it could Thomas Hood.  When nothing else was
left him to joke upon, when he could no longer seek fun in the city streets, or visit the Tower
of London and call it "a sweet boon," his own shattered self suggested a theme for jesting.
He commenced this paper "On Health."  The purport of it, I believe, was to ridicule doctors
generally; for Artemus was bitterly sarcastic on his medical attendants, and he had some good
reasons for being so.  A few weeks before he died, a German physician examined his throat with
a laryngoscope, and told him that nothing was the matter with him except a slight inflammation
of the larynx. Another physician told him that he had heart disease, and a third assured him
that he merely required his throat to be sponged two or three times a day, and take a preparation
of tortoise shell for medicine, to perfectly recover!  Every doctor made a different diagnosis,
and each had a different specific.  One alone of the many physicians to whom Artemus applied
seemed to be fully aware that the poor patient was dying of consumption in its most formidable
form. Not merely phthisis, but a cessation of functions and a wasting away of the organs most
concerned in the vital processes.  Artemus saw how much the doctors were at fault, and used
to smile at them with a sadly scornful smile as they left the sick room.  "I must write a paper,"
said he, "about health and doctors."  The few paragraphs which follow are, I believe, all that
he wrote on the subject. Whether the matter became too serious to him for further jesting,
or whether his hand became too weak to hold the pen, I cannot say.  The article terminates
as abruptly as did the life of its gentle, kind, ill-fated author.

E.P.H.]

