     "Although George Steevens never used his imperial pen for personal
     purposes, yet it seems almost as if it were a premonition of death
     by enteric fever which aroused his intense sympathy for our brave
     soldiers who died like flies in the Soudan from this terrible
     scourge, owing to lack of trained nursing skill, during the late
     war. This sympathy he expressed to those in power, and we believe
     that it was owing to his representations that one of the most
     splendid offers of help for our soldiers ever suggested was made by
     his chief, the editor of the 'Daily Mail,' when he proposed to
     equip, regardless of expense, an ambulance to the Soudan, organised
     on lines which would secure, for our sick and wounded, skilled
     nursing on modern lines, such nursing as the system in vogue at
     the War Office denies to them.

     "The fact that the War Office refused this enlightened and generous
     offer, and that dozens of valuable lives were sacrificed in
     consequence, is only part of the monstrous incompetence of its
     management. Who can tell! If Mr Alfred Harmsworth's offer had been
     accepted in the last war, might not army nursing reform have, to a
     certain extent, been effected ere we came to blows with the
     Transvaal, and many of the brave men who have died for us long
     lingering deaths from enteric and dysentery have been spared to
     those of whom they are beloved?"

Another writer in the 'Outlook':--

     "As we turn over the astonishing record of George Warrington
     Steevens's thirty years, we are divided between the balance of loss
     and gain. The loss to his own intimates must be intolerable. From
     that, indeed, we somewhat hastily avert our eyes. Remains the loss
     to the great reading public, which we believe that Steevens must
     have done a vast deal to educate, not to literature so much as to a
     pride in our country's imperial destiny. Where the elect chiefly
     admired a scarcely exampled grasp and power of literary
     impressionism, the man in the street was learning the scope and
     aspect of his and our imperial heritage, and gaining a new view of
     his duties as a British citizen.

     "A potent influence is thus withdrawn. The pen that had taught us
     to see and comprehend India and Egypt and the reconquest of the
     Soudan would have burned in on the most heedless the line which
     duty marks out for us in South Africa. Men who know South Africa
     are pretty well united. Now Steevens would have taken all England
     to South Africa. Nay, more, we are no longer able to blink the
     truth that all is not for the best in the best of all possible
     armies, and the one satisfaction in our reverses is that, when the
     war is over, no Government will dare to resist a vigorous programme
     of reform. Steevens would not have been too technical for his
     readers; he would have given his huge public just as many prominent
     facts and headings as had been good for them, and his return from
     South Africa with the materials of a book must have strengthened
     the hands of the intelligent reformer. That journalism which, in a
     word, really is a living influence in the State is infinitely the
     poorer. And so we believe is literature. There is much literature
     in his journalism, but it is in his 'Monologues of the Dead' that
     you get the rare achievement and rarer promise which made one
     positive that, his wanderings once over, he would settle down to
     write something of great and permanent value. Only one impediment
     could we have foreseen to such a consummation: he might have been
     drawn into public life. For he spoke far better than the majority
     of even distinguished contemporary politicians, and to a man of his
     knowledge of affairs, influence over others, and clearness of
     conviction, anything might have been open.

     "Well! he is dead at Ladysmith of enteric fever. Turning over the
     pages of his famous war-book we find it written of the Soudan: 'Of
     the men who escaped with their lives, hundreds more will bear the
     mark of its fangs till they die; hardly one of them but will die
     the sooner for the Soudan.' And so he is dead 'the sooner for the
     Soudan.' It seems bitter, unjust, a quite superfluous dispensation;
     and then one's eye falls on the next sentence--'What have we to
     show in return?' In the answer is set forth the balance of gain,
     for we love 'to show in return' a wellnigh ideal career. Fame,
     happiness, friendship, and that which transcends friendship, all
     came to George Steevens before he was thirty. He did everything,
     and everything well. He bridged a gulf which was deemed impassable,
     for from being a head-boy at school and the youngest Balliol
     scholar and a Fellow of his College and the very type of rising
     pedagogue, with a career secure to him in these dusty meadows, he
     chose to step forth into a world where these things were accounted
     lightly, to glorify the hitherto contemned office of the reporter.
     Thus within a few years he hurried through America, bringing back,
     the greatest of living American journalists tells us, the best and
     most accurate of all pictures of America. Thus he saw the face of
     war with the conquering Turk in Thessaly, and showed us modern
     Germany and Egypt and British India, and in two Soudanese campaigns
     rode for days in the saddle in 'that God-accursed wilderness,' as
     though his training had been in a stable, not in the quad of
     Balliol. These thirty years were packed with the happiness and
     success which Matthew Arnold desired for them that must die young.
     He not only succeeded, but he took success modestly, and leaves a
     name for unselfishness and unbumptiousness. Also he 'did the State
     some service.'

     "'One paces up and down the shore yet awhile,' says Thackeray, 'and
     looks towards the unknown ocean and thinks of the traveller whose
     boat sailed yesterday.' And so, thinking of Steevens, we must not
     altogether repine when, 'trailing clouds of glory,' an 'ample,
     full-blooded spirit shoots into the night.'"

I take this passage from 'Literature,' in connection with Steevens, on account of the grave
moral which it draws from his life-work:--

     "His career was an object-lesson in the usefulness of those
     educational endowments which link the humblest with the highest
     seats of learning in the country. If he had not been able to win
     scholarships he would have had to begin life as a clerk in a bank
     or a house of business. But he won them, and a good education with
     them, wherever they were to be won--at the City of London School,
     and at Balliol College, Oxford. He was a first-class man (both in
     'Mods' and 'Greats'), proxime accessit for the Hertford, and a
     Fellow of Pembroke. He learnt German, and specialised in
     metaphysics. A review which he wrote of Mr Balfour's 'Foundations
     of Religious Belief' showed how much more deeply than the average
     journalist he had studied the subjects about which philosophers
     doubt; and his first book--'Monologues of the Dead'--established
     his claim to scholarship. Some critics called them vulgar, and they
     certainly were frivolous. But they proved two things--that Mr
     Steevens had a lively sense of humour, and that he had read the
     classics to some purpose. The monologue of Xanthippe--in which she
     gave her candid opinion of Socrates--was, in its way, and within
     its limits, a masterpiece.

     "But it was not by this sort of work that Mr Steevens was to win
     his wide popularity. Few writers, when one comes to think of it, do
     win wide popularity by means of classical jeux d'esprit. At the
     time when he was throwing them off, he was also throwing off 'Occ.
     Notes' for the 'Pall Mall Gazette.' He was reckoned the humorist
     par excellence of that journal in the years when, under the
     editorship of Mr Cust, it was almost entirely written by humorists.
     He was one of the seceders on the occasion of Mr Cust's retirement,
     and occupied the leisure that then presented itself in writing his
     book on 'Naval Policy.' His real chance in life came when he was
     sent to America for the 'Daily Mail.' It was a better chance than
     it might have been, because that newspaper did not publish his
     letters at irregular intervals, as usually happens, but in an
     unbroken daily sequence. Other excursions followed--to Egypt, to
     India, to Turkey, to Germany, to Rennes, to the Soudan--and the
     letters, in almost every case, quickly reappeared as a book.

     "A rare combination of gifts contributed to Mr Steevens's success.
     To begin with, he had a wonderful power of finding his way quickly
     through a tangle of complicated detail: this he owed, no doubt, in
     large measure to his Oxford training. He also was one of the few
     writers who have brought to journalism the talents, and sympathies,
     and touch hitherto regarded as belonging more properly to the
     writer of fiction. It was the dream of Mr T.P. O'Connor, when he
     started the 'Sun,' to have the happenings of the passing day
     described in the style of the short-story writer. The experiment
     failed, because it was tried on an evening paper with printers
     clamouring for copy, and the beginning of the story generally had
     to be written before the end of the story was in sight or the place
     of the incidents could be determined. Mr Steevens tried the same
     experiment under more favourable conditions, and succeeded. There
     never were newspaper articles that read more like short stories
     than his, and at the same time there never were newspaper articles
     that gave a more convincing impression that the thing happened as
     the writer described it."

A more personal note was struck perhaps by a writer in the 'Morning Post':--

     "Few of the reading public can fail to be acquainted with the
     merits of his purely journalistic work. He had carefully developed
     a great natural gift of observation until it seemed wellnigh an
     impossibility that he should miss any important detail, however
     small, in a scene which he was watching. Moreover, he had a
     marvellous power of vivid expression, and used it with such a skill
     that even the dullest of readers could hardly fail to see what he
     wished them to see. It is given to some journalists to wield great
     influence, and few have done more to spread the imperial idea than
     has been done by Mr Steevens during the last four or five years of
     his brief life. Still it must be remembered that, in order to
     follow journalism successfully, he had to make sacrifices which he
     undoubtedly felt to be heavy. His little book, 'Monologues of the
     Dead,' can never become popular, since it needs for its
     appreciation an amount of scholarship which comparatively few
     possess. Yet it proves none the less conclusively that, had he
     lived and had leisure, he would have accomplished great things in
     literature. Those who had the privilege of knowing him, however,
     and above all those who at one period or another in his career
     worked side by side with him, will think but little now of his
     success as journalist and author. The people who may have tried, as
     they read his almost aggressively brilliant articles, to divine
     something of the personality behind them, can scarcely have
     contrived to picture him accurately. They will not imagine the
     silent, undemonstrative person, invariably kind and ready unasked
     to do a colleague's work in addition to his own, who dwells in the
     memory of the friends of Mr Steevens. They will not understand how
     entirely natural it seemed to these friends that when the long
     day's work was ended in Ladysmith he should have gone habitually,
     until this illness struck him down, to labour among the sick and
     wounded for their amusement, and in order to give them the courage
     which is as necessary to the soldier facing disease as it is to
     his colleague who has to storm a difficult position. Those who
     loved him will presently find some consolation in considering the
     greatness of his achievement, but nothing that can now be said will
     mitigate their grief at his untimely loss."

Another writer says:--

     "What Mr Kipling has done for fiction Mr Steevens did for fact. He
     was a priest of the Imperialist idea, and the glory of the Empire
     was ever uppermost in his writings. That alone would not have
     brought him the position he held, for it was part of the age he
     lived in. But he was endowed with a curious faculty, an
     extraordinary gift for recording his impressions. In a scientific
     age his style may be described as cinematographic. He was able to
     put vividly before his readers, in a series of smooth-running
     little pictures, events exactly as he saw them with his own intense
     eyes. It has been said that on occasion his work contained passages
     a purist would not have passed. But Mr Steevens wrote for the
     people, and he knew it. Deliberately and by consummate skill he
     wrote in the words of his average reader; and had he desired to
     offer his work for the consideration of a more select class, there
     is little doubt that he would have displayed the same felicity. His
     mission was not of that order. He set himself the more difficult
     task of entertaining the many; and the same thoroughness which made
     him captain of the school, Balliol scholar, and the best
     note-writer on the 'Pall Mall Gazette' in its brightest days,
     taught him, aided by natural gifts, to write 'With Kitchener to
     Khartum' and his marvellous impressions of travel."

       *       *       *       *       *

This record must close. Innumerable have been the tributes to this brave youth's power for
capturing the human heart and the human mind. The statesman and the working man--one of these
has written very curtly and simply, "He served us best of all"--each has felt something of
the intimate spirit of his work.

Lord Roberts cabled from Capetown in the following words:--

     "Deeply regret death of your talented correspondent, Steevens.
     ROBERTS."

And a correspondent writes:--

     "To-day I called on Lord Kitchener, in compliance with his request,
     having yesterday received through his aide-de-camp, Major Watson,
     the following letter:--

          "'I am anxious to have an opportunity of expressing to you
          personally my great regret at the loss we have all sustained
          in the death of Mr Steevens.'

     "Lord Kitchener said to me:--

     "'I was anxious to tell you how very sorry I was to hear of the
     death of Mr Steevens. He was with me in the Sudan, and, of course,
     I saw a great deal of him and knew him well. He was such a clever
     and able man. He did his work as correspondent so brilliantly, and
     he never gave the slightest trouble--I wish all correspondents were
     like him. I suppose they will try to follow in his footsteps. I am
     sure I hope they will.

