What is the secret of his formidable supremacy?  One says it is his prodigious wealth--a wealth
whose drippings in salaries and in other ways support multitudes and make them his interested
and loyal vassals; another says it is his personal magnetism and his persuasive tongue, and
that these hypnotize and make happy slaves of all that drift within the circle of their influence;
another says it is his majestic ideas, his vast schemes for the territorial aggrandizement
of England, his patriotic and unselfish ambition to spread her beneficent protection and her
just rule over the pagan wastes of Africa and make luminous the African darkness with the glory
of her name; and another says he wants the earth and wants it for his own, and that the belief
that he will get it and let his friends in on the ground floor is the secret that rivets so
many eyes upon him and keeps him in the zenith where the view is unobstructed.

One may take his choice.  They are all the same price.  One fact is sure: he keeps his prominence
and a vast following, no matter what he does.  He "deceives" the Duke of Fife--it is the Duke's
word--but that does not destroy the Duke's loyalty to him.  He tricks the Reformers into immense
trouble with his Raid, but the most of them believe he meant well.  He weeps over the harshly--taxed
Johannesburgers and makes them his friends; at the same time he taxes his Charter-settlers
50 per cent., and so wins their affection and their confidence that they are squelched with
despair at every rumor that the Charter is to be annulled.  He raids and robs and slays and
enslaves the Matabele and gets worlds of Charter-Christian applause for it.  He has beguiled
England into buying Charter waste paper for Bank of England notes, ton for ton, and the ravished
still burn incense to him as the Eventual God of Plenty.  He has done everything he could think
of to pull himself down to the ground; he has done more than enough to pull sixteen common-run
great men down; yet there he stands, to this day, upon his dizzy summit under the dome of the
sky, an apparent permanency, the marvel of the time, the mystery of the age, an Archangel with
wings to half the world, Satan with a tail to the other half.

I admire him, I frankly confess it; and when his time comes I shall buy a piece of the rope
for a keepsake.

CONCLUSION.

I have traveled more than anyone else, and I have noticed that even the
angels speak English with an accent.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

I saw Table Rock, anyway--a majestic pile.  It is 3,000 feet high.  It is also 17,000 feet
high.  These figures may be relied upon.  I got them in Cape Town from the two best-informed
citizens, men who had made Table Rock the study of their lives.  And I saw Table Bay, so named
for its levelness.  I saw the Castle--built by the Dutch East India Company three hundred years
ago--where the Commanding General lives; I saw St. Simon's Bay, where the Admiral lives.  I
saw the Government, also the Parliament, where they quarreled in two languages when I was there,
and agreed in none.  I saw the club.  I saw and explored the beautiful sea-girt drives that
wind about the mountains and through the paradise where the villas are: Also I saw some of
the fine old Dutch mansions, pleasant homes of the early times, pleasant homes to-day, and
enjoyed the privilege of their hospitalities.

And just before I sailed I saw in one of them a quaint old picture which was a link in a curious
romance--a picture of a pale, intellectual young man in a pink coat with a high black collar.
It was a portrait of Dr. James Barry, a military surgeon who came out to the Cape fifty years
ago with his regiment.  He was a wild young fellow, and was guilty of various kinds of misbehavior.
He was several times reported to headquarters in England, and it was in each case expected
that orders would come out to deal with him promptly and severely, but for some mysterious
reason no orders of any kind ever came back--nothing came but just an impressive silence. 
This made him an imposing and uncanny wonder to the town.

Next, he was promoted-away up.  He was made Medical Superintendent General, and transferred
to India.  Presently he was back at the Cape again and at his escapades once more.  There were
plenty of pretty girls, but none of them caught him, none of them could get hold of his heart;
evidently he was not a marrying man.  And that was another marvel, another puzzle, and made
no end of perplexed talk.  Once he was called in the night, an obstetric service, to do what
he could for a woman who was believed to be dying.  He was prompt and scientific, and saved
both mother and child.  There are other instances of record which testify to his mastership
of his profession; and many which testify to his love of it and his devotion to it.  Among
other adventures of his was a duel of a desperate sort, fought with swords, at the Castle.
He killed his man.

The child heretofore mentioned as having been saved by Dr. Barry so long ago, was named for
him, and still lives in Cape Town.  He had Dr. Barry's portrait painted, and gave it to the
gentleman in whose old Dutch house I saw it--the quaint figure in pink coat and high black collar.

The story seems to be arriving nowhere.  But that is because I have not finished.  Dr. Barry
died in Cape Town 30 years ago.  It was then discovered that he was a woman.

The legend goes that enquiries--soon silenced--developed the fact that she was a daughter of
a great English house, and that that was why her Cape wildnesses brought no punishment and
got no notice when reported to the government at home.  Her name was an alias.  She had disgraced
herself with her people; so she chose to change her name and her sex and take a new start in
the world.

We sailed on the 15th of July in the Norman, a beautiful ship, perfectly appointed.  The voyage
to England occupied a short fortnight, without a stop except at Madeira.  A good and restful
voyage for tired people, and there were several of us.  I seemed to have been lecturing a thousand
years, though it was only a twelvemonth, and a considerable number of the others were Reformers
who were fagged out with their five months of seclusion in the Pretoria prison.

Our trip around the earth ended at the Southampton pier, where we embarked thirteen months
before.  It seemed a fine and large thing to have accomplished--the circumnavigation of this
great globe in that little time, and I was privately proud of it.  For a moment. Then came
one of those vanity-snubbing astronomical reports from the Observatory-people, whereby it appeared
that another great body of light had lately flamed up in the remotenesses of space which was
traveling at a gait which would enable it to do all that I had done in a minute and a half.
Human pride is not worth while; there is always something lying in wait to take the wind out of it.