I do not, however, appeal to Lord Gorell's judgment on all points. It is inevitable that a
judge should be deeply impressed by his professional experience with a sense of the impotence
of judges and laws and courts to deal satisfactorily with evils which are so Protean and elusive
as to defy definition, and which yet seem to present quite simple problems to the common sense
of men of the world. You have only to imagine the Privy Council as consisting of men of the
world highly endowed with common sense, to persuade yourself that the supplementing of the
law by the common sense of the Privy Council would settle the whole difficulty. But no man
knows what he means by common sense, though every man can tell you that it is very uncommon,
even in Privy Councils. And since every ploughman is a man of the world, it is evident that
even the phrase itself does not mean what it says. As a matter of fact, it means in ordinary
use simply a man who will not make himself disagreeable for the sake of a principle: just the
sort of man who should never be allowed to meddle with political rights. Now to a judge a political
right, that is, a dogma which is above our laws and conditions our laws, instead of being subject
to them, is anarchic and abhorrent. That is why I trust Lord Gorell when he is defending the
integrity of the law against the proposal to make it in any sense optional, whilst I very strongly
mistrust him, as I mistrust all professional judges, when political rights are in danger.

CONCLUSION

I must conclude by recommending the Government to take my advice wherever it conflicts with
that of the Joint Select Committee. It is, I think, obviously more deeply considered and better
informed, though I say it that should not. At all events, I have given my reasons; and at that
I must leave it. As the tradition which makes Malvolio not only Master of the Revels but Master
of the Mind of England, and which has come down to us from Henry VIII., is manifestly doomed
to the dustbin, the sooner it goes there the better; for the democratic control which naturally
succeeds it can easily be limited so as to prevent it becoming either a censorship or a tyranny.
The Examiner of Plays should receive a generous pension, and be set free to practise privately
as an expert adviser of theatrical managers. There is no reason why they should be deprived
of the counsel they so highly value.

It only remains to say that public performances of The Shewing-Up of Blanco Posnet are still
prohibited in Great Britain by the Lord Chamberlain. An attempt was made to prevent even its
performance in Ireland by some indiscreet Castle officials in the absence of the Lord Lieutenant.
This attempt gave extraordinary publicity to the production of the play; and every possible
effort was made to persuade the Irish public that the performance would be an outrage to their
religion, and to provoke a repetition of the rioting that attended the first performances of
Synge's Playboy of the Western World before the most sensitive and, on provocation, the most
turbulent audience in the kingdom. The directors of the Irish National Theatre, Lady Gregory
and Mr. William Butler Yeats, rose to the occasion with inspiriting courage. I am a conciliatory
person, and was willing, as I always am, to make every concession in return for having my own
way. But Lady Gregory and Mr. Yeats not only would not yield an inch, but insisted, within
the due limits of gallant warfare, on taking the field with every circumstance of defiance,
and winning the battle with every trophy of victory. Their triumph was as complete as they
could have desired. The performance exhausted the possibilities of success, and provoked no
murmur, though it inspired several approving sermons. Later on, Lady Gregory and Mr. Yeats
brought the play to London and performed it under the Lord Chamberlain's nose, through the
instrumentality of the Stage Society.

After this, the play was again submitted to the Lord Chamberlain. But, though beaten, he, too,
understands the art of How Not To Do It. He licensed the play, but endorsed on his licence
the condition that all the passages which implicated God in the history of Blanco Posnet must
be omitted in representation. All the coarseness, the profligacy, the prostitution, the violence,
the drinking-bar humor into which the light shines in the play are licensed, but the light
itself is extinguished. I need hardly say that I have not availed myself of this licence, and
do not intend to. There is enough licensed darkness in our theatres today without my adding to it.

AYOT ST. LAWRENCE, 14TH JULY 1910.

POSTSCRIPT.--Since the above was written the Lord Chamberlain has made an attempt to evade
his responsibility and perhaps to postpone his doom by appointing an advisory committee, unknown
to the law, on which he will presumably throw any odium that may attach to refusals of licences
in the future. This strange and lawless body will hardly reassure our moralists, who object
much more to the plays he licenses than to those he suppresses, and are therefore unmoved by
his plea that his refusals are few and far between. It consists of two eminent actors (one
retired), an Oxford professor of literature, and two eminent barristers. As their assembly
is neither created by statute nor sanctioned by custom, it is difficult to know what to call
it until it advises the Lord Chamberlain to deprive some author of his means of livelihood,
when it will, I presume, become a conspiracy, and be indictable accordingly; unless, indeed,
it can persuade the Courts to recognize it as a new Estate of the Realm, created by the Lord
Chamberlain. This constitutional position is so questionable that I strongly advise the members
to resign promptly before the Lord Chamberlain gets them into trouble.

THE SHEWING-UP OF BLANCO POSNET

A number of women are sitting working together in a big room not unlike an old English tithe
barn in its timbered construction, but with windows high up next the roof. It is furnished
as a courthouse, with the floor raised next the walls, and on this raised flooring a seat for
the Sheriff, a rough jury box on his right, and a bar to put prisoners to on his left. In the
well in the middle is a table with benches round it. A few other benches are in disorder round
the room. The autumn sun is shining warmly through the windows and the open door. The women,
whose dress and speech are those of pioneers of civilisation in a territory of the United States
of America, are seated round the table and on the benches, shucking nuts. The conversation
is at its height.

BABSY [a bumptious young slattern, with some good looks] I say that a man that would steal
a horse would do anything.

LOTTIE [a sentimental girl, neat and clean] Well, I never should look at it in that way. I
do think killing a man is worse any day than stealing a horse.

HANNAH [elderly and wise] I dont say it's right to kill a man. In a place like this, where
every man has to have a revolver, and where theres so much to try people's tempers, the men
get to be a deal too free with one another in the way of shooting. God knows it's hard enough
to have to bring a boy into the world and nurse him up to be a man only to have him brought
home to you on a shutter, perhaps for nothing, or only just to shew that the man that killed
him wasn't afraid of him. But men are like children when they get a gun in their hands: theyre
not content til theyve used it on somebody.

JESSIE [a good-natured but sharp-tongued, hoity-toity young woman; Babsy's rival in good looks
and her superior in tidiness] They shoot for the love of it. Look at them at a lynching. Theyre
not content to hang the man; but directly the poor creature is swung up they all shoot him
full of holes, wasting their cartridges that cost solid money, and pretending they do it in
horror of his wickedness, though half of them would have a rope round their own necks if all
they did was known--let alone the mess it makes.

LOTTIE. I wish we could get more civilized. I don't like all this lynching and shooting. I
don't believe any of us like it, if the truth were known.

BABSY. Our Sheriff is a real strong man. You want a strong man for a rough lot like our people
here. He aint afraid to shoot and he aint afraid to hang. Lucky for us quiet ones, too.

JESSIE. Oh, don't talk to me. I know what men are. Of course he aint afraid to shoot and he
aint afraid to hang. Wheres the risk in that with the law on his side and the whole crowd at
his back longing for the lynching as if it was a spree? Would one of them own to it or let
him own to it if they lynched the wrong man? Not them. What they call justice in this place
is nothing but a breaking out of the devil thats in all of us. What I want to see is a Sheriff
that aint afraid not to shoot and not to hang.

EMMA [a sneak who sides with Babsy or Jessie, according to the fortune of war] Well, I must
say it does sicken me to see Sheriff Kemp putting down his foot, as he calls it. Why don't
he put it down on his wife? She wants it worse than half the men he lynches. He and his Vigilance
Committee, indeed!

BABSY [incensed] Oh, well! if people are going to take the part of horse-thieves against the
Sheriff--!

JESSIE. Who's taking the part of horse-thieves against the Sheriff?

BABSY. You are. Waitle your own horse is stolen, and youll know better. I had an uncle that
died of thirst in the sage brush because a negro stole his horse. But they caught him and burned
him; and serve him right, too.

EMMA. I have known that a child was born crooked because its mother had to do a horse's work
that was stolen.

BABSY. There! You hear that? I say stealing a horse is ten times worse than killing a man.
And if the Vigilance Committee ever gets hold of you, youd better have killed twenty men than
as much as stole a saddle or bridle, much less a horse.

[Elder Daniels comes in.]

ELDER DANIELS. Sorry to disturb you, ladies; but the Vigilance Committee has taken a prisoner;
and they want the room to try him in.

JESSIE. But they cant try him til Sheriff Kemp comes back from the wharf.

ELDER DANIELS. Yes; but we have to keep the prisoner here til he comes.

BABSY. What do you want to put him here for? Cant you tie him up in the Sheriff's stable?

ELDER DANIELS. He has a soul to be saved, almost like the rest of us. I am bound to try to
put some religion into him before he goes into his Maker's presence after the trial.

HANNAH. What has he done, Mr Daniels?

ELDER DANIELS. Stole a horse.

BABSY. And are we to be turned out of the town hall for a horse- thief? Aint a stable good
enough for his religion?

ELDER DANIELS. It may be good enough for his, Babsy; but, by your leave, it is not good enough
for mine. While I am Elder here, I shall umbly endeavour to keep up the dignity of Him I serve
to the best of my small ability. So I must ask you to be good enough to clear out. Allow me.
[He takes the sack of husks and put it out of the way against the panels of the jury box].

THE WOMEN [murmuring] Thats always the way. Just as we'd settled down to work. What harm are
we doing? Well, it is tiresome. Let them finish the job themselves. Oh dear, oh dear! We cant
have a minute to ourselves. Shoving us out like that!

HANNAH. Whose horse was it, Mr Daniels?

ELDER DANIELS [returning to move the other sack] I am sorry to say that it was the Sheriff's
horse--the one he loaned to young Strapper. Strapper loaned it to me; and the thief stole it,
thinking it was mine. If it had been mine, I'd have forgiven him cheerfully. I'm sure I hoped
he would get away; for he had two hours start of the Vigilance Committee. But they caught him.
[He disposes of the other sack also].

JESSIE. It cant have been much of a horse if they caught him with two hours start.

ELDER DANIELS [coming back to the centre of the group] The strange thing is that he wasn't
on the horse when they took him. He was walking; and of course he denies that he ever had the
horse. The Sheriff's brother wanted to tie him up and lash him till he confessed what he'd
done with it; but I couldn't allow that: it's not the law.

BABSY. Law! What right has a horse-thief to any law? Law is thrown away on a brute like that.

ELDER DANIELS. Dont say that, Babsy. No man should be made to confess by cruelty until religion
has been tried and failed. Please God I'll get the whereabouts of the horse from him if youll
be so good as to clear out from this. [Disturbance outside]. They are bringing him in. Now
ladies! please, please.

[They rise reluctantly. Hannah, Jessie, and Lottie retreat to the Sheriff's bench, shepherded
by Daniels; but the other women crowd forward behind Babsy and Emma to see the prisoner.

Blanco Posnet it brought in by Strapper Kemp, the Sheriff's brother, and a cross-eyed man called
Squinty. Others follow. Blanco is evidently a blackguard. It would be necessary to clean him
to make a close guess at his age; but he is under forty, and an upturned, red moustache, and
the arrangement of his hair in a crest on his brow, proclaim the dandy in spite of his intense
disreputableness. He carries his head high, and has a fairly resolute mouth, though the fire
of incipient delirium tremens is in his eye.

His arms are bound with a rope with a long end, which Squinty holds. They release him when
he enters; and he stretches himself and lounges across the courthouse in front of the women.
Strapper and the men remain between him and the door.]

BABSY [spitting at him as he passes her] Horse-thief! horse- thief!

OTHERS. You will hang for it; do you hear? And serve you right. Serve you right. That will
teach you. I wouldn't wait to try you. Lynch him straight off, the varmint. Yes, yes. Tell
the boys. Lynch him.

BLANCO [mocking] "Angels ever bright and fair--"

BABSY. You call me an angel, and I'll smack your dirty face for you.

BLANCO. "Take, oh take me to your care."

EMMA. There wont be any angels where youre going to.

OTHERS. Aha! Devils, more likely. And too good company for a horse-thief.

ALL. Horse-thief! Horse-thief! Horse-thief!

BLANCO. Do women make the law here, or men? Drive these heifers out.

THE WOMEN. Oh! [They rush at him, vituperating, screaming passionately, tearing at him. Lottie
puts her fingers in her ears and runs out. Hannah follows, shaking her head. Blanco is thrown
down]. Oh, did you hear what he called us? You foul-mouthed brute! You liar! How dare you put
such a name to a decent woman? Let me get at him. You coward! Oh, he struck me: did you see
that? Lynch him! Pete, will you stand by and hear me called names by a skunk like that? Burn
him: burn him! Thats what I'd do with him. Aye, burn him!

THE MEN [pulling the women away from Blanco, and getting them out partly by violence and partly
by coaxing] Here! come out of this. Let him alone. Clear the courthouse. Come on now. Out with
you. Now, Sally: out you go. Let go my hair, or I'll twist your arm out. Ah, would you? Now,
then: get along. You know you must go. Whats the use of scratching like that? Now, ladies,
ladies, ladies. How would you like it if you were going to be hanged?

[At last the women are pushed out, leaving Elder Daniels, the Sheriff's brother Strapper Kemp,
and a few others with Blanco. Strapper is a lad just turning into a man: strong, selfish, sulky,
and determined.]

BLANCO [sitting up and tidying himself]--

     Oh woman, in our hours of ease.
     Uncertain, coy, and hard to please--

Is my face scratched? I can feel their damned claws all over me still. Am I bleeding? [He sits
on the nearest  bench].

ELDER DANIELS. Nothing to hurt. Theyve drawn a drop or two under your left eye.

STRAPPER. Lucky for you to have an eye left in your head.

BLANCO [wiping the blood off]--

    When pain and anguish wring the brow,
    A ministering angel thou.

Go out to them, Strapper Kemp; and tell them about your big brother's little horse that some
wicked man stole. Go and cry in your mammy's lap.

STRAPPER [furious] You jounce me any more about that horse, Blanco Posnet; and I'll--I'll--

BLANCO. Youll scratch my face, wont you? Yah! Your brother's the Sheriff, aint he?

STRAPPER. Yes, he is. He hangs horse-thieves.

BLANCO [with calm conviction] He's a rotten Sheriff. Oh, a rotten Sheriff. If he did his first
duty he'd hang himself. This is a rotten town. Your fathers came here on a false alarm of gold-
digging; and when the gold didn't pan out, they lived by licking their young into habits of
honest industry.

STRAPPER. If I hadnt promised Elder Daniels here to give him a chance to keep you out of Hell,
I'd take the job of twisting your neck off the hands of the Vigilance Committee.

BLANCO [with infinite scorn] You and your rotten Elder, and your rotten Vigilance Committee!

STRAPPER. Theyre sound enough to hang a horse-thief, anyhow.

BLANCO. Any fool can hang the wisest man in the country. Nothing he likes better. But you cant
hang me.

STRAPPER. Cant we?

BLANCO. No, you cant. I left the town this morning before sunrise, because it's a rotten town,
and I couldn't bear to see it in the light. Your brother's horse did the same, as any sensible
horse would. Instead of going to look for the horse, you went looking for me. That was a rotten
thing to do, because the horse belonged to your brother--or to the man he stole it from-- and
I don't belong to him. Well, you found me; but you didn't find the horse. If I had took the
horse, I'd have been on the horse. Would I have taken all that time to get to where I did if
I'd a horse to carry me?

STRAPPER. I dont believe you started not for two hours after you say you did.

BLANCO. Who cares what you believe or dont believe? Is a man worth six of you to be hanged
because youve lost your big brother's horse, and youll want to kill somebody to relieve your
rotten feelings when he licks you for it? Not likely. Till you can find a witness that saw
me with that horse you cant touch me; and you know it.

STRAPPER. Is that the law, Elder?

ELDER DANIELS. The Sheriff knows the law. I wouldnt say for sure; but I think it would be more
seemly to have a witness. Go and round one up, Strapper; and leave me here alone to wrestle
with his poor blinded soul.

STRAPPER. I'll get a witness all right enough. I know the road he took; and I'll ask at every
house within sight of it for a mile out. Come boys.

[Strapper goes out with the others, leaving Blanco and Elder Daniels together. Blanco rises
and strolls over to the Elder, surveying him with extreme disparagement.]

BLANCO. Well, brother? Well, Boozy Posnet, alias Elder Daniels? Well, thief? Well, drunkard?

ELDER DANIELS. It's no good, Blanco. Theyll never believe we're brothers.

BLANCO. Never fear. Do you suppose I want to claim you? Do you suppose I'm proud of you? Youre
a rotten brother, Boozy Posnet. All you ever did when I owned you was to borrow money from
me to get drunk with. Now you lend money and sell drink to other people. I was ashamed of you
before; and I'm worse ashamed of you now, I wont have you for a brother. Heaven gave you to
me; but I return the blessing without thanks. So be easy: I shant blab. [He turns his back
on him and sits down].

ELDER DANIELS. I tell you they wouldn't believe you; so what does it matter to me whether you
blab or not? Talk sense, Blanco: theres no time for your foolery now; for youll be a dead man
an hour after the Sheriff comes back. What possessed you to steal that horse?

BLANCO. I didnt steal it. I distrained on it for what you owed me. I thought it was yours.
I was a fool to think that you owned anything but other people's property. You laid your hands
on everything father and mother had when they died. I never asked you for a fair share. I never
asked you for all the money I'd lent you from time to time. I asked you for mother's old necklace
with the hair locket in it. You wouldn't give me that: you wouldn't give me anything. So as
you refused me my due I took it, just to give you a lesson.

ELDER DANIELS. Why didnt you take the necklace if you must steal something? They wouldnt have
hanged you for that.

BLANCO. Perhaps I'd rather be hanged for stealing a horse than let off for a damned piece of
sentimentality.

ELDER DANIELS. Oh, Blanco, Blanco: spiritual pride has been your ruin. If youd only done like
me, youd be a free and respectable man this day instead of laying there with a rope round your
neck.

BLANCO [turning on him] Done like you! What do you mean? Drink like you, eh? Well, Ive done
some of that lately. I see things.

ELDER DANIELS. Too late, Blanco: too late. [Convulsively] Oh, why didnt you drink as I used
to? Why didnt you drink as I was led to by the Lord for my good, until the time came for me
to give it up? It was drink that saved my character when I was a young man; and it was the
want of it that spoiled yours. Tell me this. Did I ever get drunk when I was working?

BLANCO. No; but then you never worked when you had money enough to get drunk.

ELDER DANIELS. That just shews the wisdom of Providence and the Lord's mercy. God fulfils himself
in many ways: ways we little think of when we try to set up our own shortsighted laws against
his Word. When does the Devil catch hold of a man? Not when he's working and not when he's
drunk; but when he's idle and sober. Our own natures tell us to drink when we have nothing
else to do. Look at you and me! When we'd both earned a pocketful of money, what did we do?
Went on the spree, naturally. But I was humble minded. I did as the rest did. I gave my money
in at the drink- shop; and I said, "Fire me out when I have drunk it all up." Did you ever
see me sober while it lasted?

BLANCO. No; and you looked so disgusting that I wonder it didn't set me against drink for the
rest of my life.

ELDER DANIELS. That was your spiritual pride, Blanco. You never reflected that when I was drunk
I was in a state of innocence. Temptations and bad company and evil thoughts passed by me like
the summer wind as you might say: I was too drunk to notice them. When the money was gone,
and they fired me out, I was fired out like gold out of the furnace, with my character unspoiled
and unspotted; and when I went back to work, the work kept me steady. Can you say as much,
Blanco? Did your holidays leave your character unspoiled? Oh, no, no. It was theatres: it was
gambling: it was evil company, it was reading in vain romances: it was women, Blanco, women:
it was wrong thoughts and gnawing discontent. It ended in your becoming a rambler and a gambler:
it is going to end this evening on the gallows tree. Oh, what a lesson against spiritual pride!
Oh, what a--[Blanco throws his hat at him].

BLANCO. Stow it, Boozy. Sling it. Cut it. Cheese it. Shut up. "Shake not the dying sinner's hand."

ELDER DANIELS. Aye: there you go, with your scraps of lustful poetry. But you cant deny what
I tell you. Why, do you think I would put my soul in peril by selling drink if I thought it
did no good, as them silly temperance reformers make out, flying in the face of the natural
tastes implanted in us all for a good purpose? Not if I was to starve for it to-morrow. But
I know better. I tell you, Blanco, what keeps America to-day the purest of the nations is that
when she's not working she's too drunk to hear the voice of the tempter.

BLANCO. Dont deceive yourself, Boozy. You sell drink because you make a bigger profit out of
it than you can by selling tea. And you gave up drink yourself because when you got that fit
at Edwardstown the doctor told you youd die the next time; and that frightened you off it.

ELDER DANIELS [fervently] Oh thank God selling drink pays me! And thank God he sent me that
fit as a warning that my drinking time was past and gone, and that he needed me for another
service!

BLANCO. Take care, Boozy. He hasnt finished with you yet. He always has a trick up His sleeve--

ELDER DANIELS. Oh, is that the way to speak of the ruler of the universe--the great and almighty
God?

BLANCO. He's a sly one. He's a mean one. He lies low for you. He plays cat and mouse with you.
He lets you run loose until you think youre shut of him; and then, when you least expect it,
he's got you.

ELDER DANIELS. Speak more respectful, Blanco--more reverent.

BLANCO [springing up and coming at him] Reverent! Who taught you your reverent cant? Not your
Bible. It says He cometh like a thief in the night--aye, like a thief--a horse-thief--

ELDER DANIELS [shocked] Oh!

BLANCO [overhearing him] And it's true. Thats how He caught me and put my neck into the halter.
To spite me because I had no use for Him--because I lived my own life in my own way, and would
have no truck with His "Dont do this," and "You mustnt do that," and "Youll go to Hell if you
do the other." I gave Him the go-bye and did without Him all these years. But He caught me
out at last. The laugh is with Him as far as hanging me goes. [He thrusts his hands into his
pockets and lounges moodily away from Daniels, to the table, where he sits facing the jury box].

ELDER DANIELS. Dont dare to put your theft on Him, man. It was the Devil tempted you to steal
the horse.

BLANCO. Not a bit of it. Neither God nor Devil tempted me to take the horse: I took it on my
own. He had a cleverer trick than that ready for me. [He takes his hands out of his pockets
and clenches his fists]. Gosh! When I think that I might have been safe and fifty miles away
by now with that horse; and here I am waiting to be hung up and filled with lead! What came
to me? What made me such a fool? Thats what I want to know. Thats the great secret.

ELDER DANIELS [at the opposite side of the table] Blanco: the great secret now is, what did
you do with the horse?

BLANCO [striking the table with his fist] May my lips be blighted like my soul if ever I tell
that to you or any mortal men! They may roast me alive or cut me to ribbons; but Strapper Kemp
shall never have the laugh on me over that job. Let them hang me. Let them shoot. So long as
they are shooting a man and not a sniveling skunk and softy, I can stand up to them and take
all they can give me--game.

ELDER DANIELS. Dont be headstrong, Blanco. Whats the use? [Slyly] They might let up on you
if you put Strapper in the way of getting his brother's horse back.

BLANCO. Not they. Hanging's too big a treat for them to give up a fair chance. Ive done it
myself. Ive yelled with the dirtiest of them when a man no worse than myself was swung up.
Ive emptied my revolver into him, and persuaded myself that he deserved it and that I was doing
justice with strong stern men. Well, my turn's come now. Let the men I yelled at and shot at
look up out of Hell and see the boys yelling and shooting at me as I swing up.

ELDER DANIELS. Well, even if you want to be hanged, is that any reason why Strapper shouldn't
have his horse? I tell you I'm responsible to him for it. [Bending over the table and coaxing
him]. Act like a brother, Blanco: tell me what you done with it.

BLANCO [shortly, getting up and leaving the table] Never you mind what I done with it. I was
done out of it. Let that be enough for you.

