In my seventh year my father was called to take charge of the new bank established at Syracuse,
thirty miles distant, and there the family soon joined him.  I remember that coming through
the Indian Reservation, on the road between the two villages, I was greatly impressed by the
bowers and other decorations which had been used shortly before at the installation of a new
Indian chief.  It was the headquarters of the Onondagas,--formerly the great central tribe
of the Iroquois,--the warlike confederacy of the Six Nations; and as, in a general way, the
story was told me on that beautiful day in September a new world of romance was opened to me,
so that Indian stories, and especially Cooper's novels, when I was allowed to read them, took
on a new reality.

Syracuse, which is now a city of one hundred and twenty thousand inhabitants, was then a straggling
village of about five thousand.  After much time lost in sundry poor ``select schools'' I was
sent to one of the public schools which was very good, and thence, when about twelve years
old, to the preparatory department of the Syracuse Academy.

There, by good luck, was Joseph A. Allen, the best teacher of English branches I have ever
known.  He had no rules and no system; or, rather, his rule was to have no rules, and his system
was to have no system.  To genius.  He seemed to divine the character and enter into the purpose
of every boy.  Work under him was a pleasure.  His methods were very simple.  Great attention
was given to reading aloud from a book made up of selections from the best authors, and to
recitals from these.  Thus I stored up not only some of the best things in the older English
writers, but inspiring poems of Bryant, Whittier, Longfellow, and other moderns.  My only regret
is that more of this was not given us.  I recall, among treasures thus gained, which have been
precious to me ever since, in many a weary or sleepless hour on land and sea, extracts from
Shakspere, parts of Milton's ``Samson Agonistes,'' and of his sonnets; Gray's ``Elegy,'' Byron's
``Ode to the Ocean,'' Campbell's ``What's Hallowed Ground?'' Goldsmith's ``Deserted Village,''
Longfellow's ``Psalm of Life,'' Irving's ``Voyage to Europe,'' and parts of Webster's ``Reply
to Hayne.''

At this school the wretched bugbear of English spelling was dealt with by a method which, so
long as our present monstrous orthography continues, seems to me the best possible.  During
the last half-hour of every day, each scholar was required to have before him a copy- book,
of which each page was divided into two columns.  At the head of the first column was the word
``Spelling''; at the head of the second column was the word ``Corrected.''  The teacher then
gave out to the school about twenty of the more important words in the reading- lesson of the
day, and, as he thus dictated each word, each scholar wrote it in the column headed ``Spelling.''
When all the words were thus written, the first scholar was asked to spell from his book the
first word; if misspelled, it was passed to the next, and so on until it was spelled correctly;
whereupon all who had made a mistake in writing it made the proper correction on the opposite
column.  The result of this was that the greater part of us learned orthography PRACTICALLY.
For the practical use of spelling comes in writing.

The only mistake in Mr. Allen's teaching was too much attention to English grammar.  The order
ought to be, literature first, and grammar afterward.  Perhaps there is no more tiresome trifling
in the world for boys and girls than rote recitations and parsing from one of the usual grammatical
text-books.

As to mathematics, arithmetic was, perhaps, pushed too far into puzzles; but geometry was made
fascinating by showing its real applications and the beauty of its reasoning.  It is the only
mathematical study I ever loved.  In natural science, though most of the apparatus of schools
nowadays was wanting, Mr. Allen's instruction was far beyond his time.  Never shall I forget
my excited interest when, occasionally, the village surgeon came in, and the whole school was
assembled to see him dissect the eye or ear or heart of an ox.  Physics, as then understood,
was studied in a text-book, but there was illustration by simple apparatus, which fastened
firmly in my mind the main facts and principles.

The best impulse by this means came from the principal of the academy, Mr. Oren Root,--one
of the pioneers of American science, whose modesty alone stood in the way of his fame.  I was
too young to take direct instruction from him, but the experiments which I saw him perform
led me, with one or two of my mates, to construct an excellent electrical machine and subsidiary
apparatus; and with these, a small galvanic battery and an extemporized orrery, I diluted Professor
Root's lectures with the teachings of my little books on natural philosophy and astronomy to
meet the capacities of the younger boys in our neighborhood.

Salient among my recollections of this period are the cries and wailing of a newly-born babe
in the rooms at the academy occupied by the principal, and adjacent to our big school-room.
Several decades of years later I had the honor of speaking on the platform of Cooper Institute
in company with this babe, who, as I write, is, I believe, the very energetic Secretary of
War in the Cabinet of President McKinley.

Unfortunately for me, Mr. Root was soon afterward called away to a professorship at Hamilton
College, and so, though living in the best of all regions for geological study, I was never
properly grounded in that science, and as to botany, I am to this hour utterly ignorant of
its simplest facts and principles.  I count this as one of the mistakes in my education,--resulting
in the loss of much valuable knowledge and high pleasure.

As to physical development, every reasonable encouragement was given to play.  Mr. Allen himself
came frequently to the play-grounds.  He was an excellent musician and a most helpful influence
was exerted by singing, which was a daily exercise of the school.  I then began taking lessons
regularly in music and became proficient enough to play the organ occasionally in church; the
best result of this training being that it gave my life one of its deepest, purest, and most
lasting pleasures.

On the moral side, Mr. Allen influenced many of us by liberalizing and broadening our horizon.
He was a disciple of Channing and an abolitionist, and, though he never made the slightest
attempt to proselyte any of his scholars, the very atmosphere of the school made sectarian
bigotry impossible.

As to my general education outside the school I browsed about as best I could.  My passion
in those days was for machinery, and, above all, for steam machinery.  The stationary and locomotive
engines upon the newly- established railways toward Albany on the east and Buffalo on the west
especially aroused my attention, and I came to know every locomotive, its history, character,
and capabilities, as well as every stationary engine in the whole region.  My holiday excursions,
when not employed in boating or skating on the Onondaga Creek, or upon the lake, were usually
devoted to visiting workshops, where the engine drivers and stokers seemed glad to talk with
a youngster who took an interest in their business.  Especially interested was I in a rotary
engine on ``Barker's centrifugal principle,'' with which the inventor had prom- ised to propel
locomotives at the rate of a hundred miles an hour, but which had been degraded to grinding
bark in a tannery.  I felt its disgrace keenly, as a piece of gross injustice; but having obtained
a small brass model, fitted to it a tin boiler and placed it on a little stern-wheel boat,
I speedily discovered the secret of the indignity which had overtaken the machine, for no boat
could carry a boiler large enough to supply steam for it.

So, too, I knew every water-wheel in that part of the county, whether overshot, undershot,
breast, or turbine.  Everything in the nature of a motor had an especial fascination for me,
and for the men in control of such power I entertained a respect which approached awe.

Among all these, my especial reverence was given to the locomotive engineers; in my youthful
mind they took on a heroic character.  Often during the night watches I thought of them as
braving storm and peril, responsible for priceless freights of human lives.  Their firm, keen
faces come back to me vividly through the mists of sixty years, and to this day I look up to
their successors at the throttle with respectful admiration.

After Professor Root's departure the Syracuse Academy greatly declined, Mr. Allen being the
only strong man left among its teachers, and, as I was to go to college, I was removed to a
``classical school.''  This school was not at first very successful.  Its teacher was a good
scholar but careless.  Under him I repeated the grammatical forms and rules in Latin and Greek,
glibly, term after term, without really understanding their value.  His great mistake, which
seems to me a not infrequent one, was taking it for granted that repeating rules and forms
means understanding them and their application.  But a catastrophe came.  I had been promoted
beyond my deserts from a lower into an upper Latin class, and at a public examination the Rev.
Samuel Joseph May, who was present, asked me a question, to which I made an answer revealing
utter ignorance of one of the simplest principles of Latin grammar.  He was discon- certed
at the result, I still more so, and our preceptor most of all.  That evening my father very
solemnly asked me about it.  I was mortified beyond expression, did not sleep at all that night,
and of my own accord, began reviewing my Andrews and Stoddard thoroughly and vigorously.  But
this did not save the preceptor.  A successor was called, a man who afterward became an eminent
Presbyterian divine and professor in a Southern university, James W. Hoyt, one of the best
and truest of men, and his manly, moral influence over his scholars was remarkable.  Many of
them have reached positions of usefulness, and I think they will agree that his influence upon
their lives was most happy.  The only drawback was that he was still very young, not yet through
his senior year in Union College, and his methods in classical teaching were imperfect.  He
loved his classics and taught his better students to love them, but he was neither thorough
in grammar, nor sure in translation, and this I afterward found to my sorrow.  My friend and
schoolmate of that time, W. O. S., published a few years since, in the ``St. Nicholas Magazine,''
an account of this school.  It was somewhat idealized, but we doubtless agree in thinking that
the lack of grammatical drill was more than made up by the love of manliness, and the dislike
of meanness, which was in those days our very atmosphere.  Probably the best thing for my mental
training was that Mr. Hoyt interested me in my Virgil, Horace, and Xenophon, and required me
to write out my translations in the best English at my command.

But to all his pupils he did not prove so helpful.  One of them, though he has since become
an energetic man of business on the Pacific Coast, was certainly not helped into his present
position by his Latin; for of all the translations I have ever heard or read of, one of his
was the worst.  Being called to construe the first line of the Aeneid, he proceeded as follows:

``Arma,--arms; virumque,--and a man; cano,--and a dog.''  There was a roar, and Mr. Hoyt, though
evidently saddened, kept his temper.  He did not, like the great and good Arnold of Rugby,
under similar provocation, knock the offender down with the text-book.

Still another agency in my development was the debating club, so inevitable in an American
village.  Its discussions were sometimes pretentious and always crude, but something was gained
thereby.  I remember that one of the subjects was stated as follows:  ``Which has done most
harm, intemperance or fanaticism.''  The debate was without any striking feature until my schoolmate,
W. O. S., brought up heavy artillery on the side of the anti-fanatics: namely, a statement
of the ruin wrought by Mohammedanism in the East, and, above all, the destruction of the great
Alexandrian library by Caliph Omar; and with such eloquence that all the argumentation which
any of us had learned in the temperance meetings was paralyzed.

On another occasion we debated the question:  ``Was the British Government justified in its
treatment of Napoleon Bonaparte?''  Much historical lore had been brought to bear on the question,
when an impassioned young orator wound up a bitter diatribe against the great emperor as follows:
``The British Government WAS justified, and if for no other reason, by the Emperor Napoleon's
murder of the `Duck de Engine' '' (Duc d'Enghien).

As to education outside of the school very important to me had been the discovery, when I was
about ten years old, of `` `The Monastery,' by the author of `Waverley.' ''  Who the ``author
of `Waverley' '' was I neither knew nor cared, but read the book three times, end over end,
in a sort of fascination.  Unfortunately, novels and romances were kept under lock and key,
as unfit reading for children, and it was some years before I reveled in Scott's other novels.
That they would have been thoroughly good and wholesome reading for me I know, and about my
sixteenth year they opened a new world to me and gave healthful play to my imagination.  I
also read and re-read Bunyan's ``Pilgrim's Progress,'' and, with plea- sure even more intense,
the earlier works of Dickens, which were then appearing.

My only regret, as regards that time, is that, between the rather trashy ``boys' books'' on
one side and the rather severe books in the family library on the other, I read far less of
really good literature than I ought to have done.  My reading was absolutely without a guide,
hence fitful and scrappy; parts of Rollin's ``Ancient History'' and Lander's ``Travels in Africa''
being mixed up with ``Robinson Crusoe'' and ``The Scottish Chiefs.''  Reflection on my experience
has convinced me that some kindly guidance in the reading of a fairly scholarly boy is of the
utmost importance, and never more so than now, when books are so many and attractive.  I should
lay much stress, also, on the hearing of good literature well read, and the interspersing of
such reading with some remarks by the reader, pointing out the main beauties of the pieces
thus presented.

About my tenth year occurred an event, apparently trivial, but really very important in my
mental development during many years afterward.  My father brought home one day, as a gift
to my mother, a handsome quarto called ``The Gallery of British Artists.''  It contained engravings
from pictures by Turner, Stanfield, Cattermole, and others, mainly representing scenes from
Shakspere, Scott, Burns, picturesque architecture, and beautiful views in various parts of
Europe.  Of this book I never tired.  It aroused in me an intense desire to know more of the
subjects represented, and this desire has led me since to visit and to study every cathedral,
church, and town hall of any historical or architectural significance in Europe, outside the
Spanish peninsula.  But, far more important, it gave an especial zest to nearly all Scott's
novels, and especially to the one which I have always thought the most fascinating, ``Quentin
Durward.''  This novel led me later, not merely to visit Liege, and Orl<e'>ans, and Cl<e'>ry,
and Tours, but to devour the chronicles and histories of that period, to become deeply interested
in historical studies, and to learn how great principles lie hidden beneath the surface of
events.  The first of these principles I ever clearly discerned was during my reading of ``Quentin
Durward'' and ``Anne of Geierstein,'' when there was revealed to me the secret of the centralization
of power in Europe, and of the triumph of monarchy over feudalism.

In my sixteenth and seventeenth years another element entered into my education.  Syracuse,
as the central city of the State, was the scene of many conventions and public meetings.  That
was a time of very deep earnestness in political matters.  The last great efforts were making,
by the more radical, peaceably to prevent the extension of slavery, and, by the more conservative,
peaceably to preserve the Union.  The former of these efforts interested me most.  There were
at Syracuse frequent public debates between the various groups of the anti-slavery party represented
by such men as Gerrit Smith, Wendell Phillips, William Lloyd Garrison, John Parker Hale, Samuel
Joseph May, and Frederick Douglass.  They took strong hold upon me and gave me a higher idea
of a man's best work in life.  That was the bloom period of the old popular lecture.  It was
the time when lectures were expected to build character and increase knowledge; the sensation
and buffoon business which destroyed the system had not yet come in.  I feel to this hour the
good influence of lectures then heard, in the old City Hall at Syracuse, from such men as President
Mark Hopkins, Bishop Alonzo Potter, Senator Hale of New Hampshire, Emerson, Ware, Whipple,
and many others.

As to recreative reading at this period, the author who exercised the strongest influence over
me was Charles Kingsley.  His novels ``Alton Locke'' and ``Yeast'' interested me greatly in
efforts for doing away with old abuses in Europe, and his ``Two Years After'' increased my
hatred for negro slavery in America.  His ``Westward Ho!'' extended my knowledge of the Elizabethan
period and increased my manliness.  Of this period, too, was my reading of Lowell's Poems,
many of which I greatly enjoyed.  His ``Biglow Papers'' were a perpetual delight; the dialect
was familiar to me since, in the little New England town transplanted into the heart of central
New York, in which I was born, the less educated people used it, and the dry and droll Yankee
expressions of our ``help'' and ``hired man'' were a source of constant amusement in the family.

In my seventeenth year came a trial.  My father had taken a leading part in establishing a
parish school for St. Paul's church in Syracuse, in accordance with the High Church views of
our rector, Dr. Gregory, and there was finally called to the mastership a young candidate for
orders, a brilliant scholar and charming man, who has since become an eminent bishop of the
Protestant Episcopal Church.  To him was intrusted my final preparation for college.  I had
always intended to enter one of the larger New England universities, but my teacher was naturally
in favor of his Alma Mater, and the influence of our bishop, Dr. de Lancey, being also thrown
powerfully into the scale, my father insisted on placing me at a small Protestant Episcopal
college in western New York.  I went most reluctantly.  There were in the faculty several excellent
men, one of whom afterward became a colleague of my own in Cornell University, and proved of
the greatest value to it.  Unfortunately, we of the lower college classes could have very little
instruction from him; still there was good instruction from others; the tutor in Greek, James
Morrison Clarke, was one of the best scholars I have ever known.

It was in the autumn of 1849 that I went into residence at the little college and was assigned
a very unprepossessing room in a very ugly barrack.  Entering my new quarters I soon discovered
about me various cabalistic signs, some of them evidently made by heating large iron keys,
and pressing them against the woodwork.  On inquiring I found that the room had been occupied
some years before by no less a personage than Philip Spencer, a member of the famous Spencer
family of Albany, who, having passed some years at this little college, and never having been
able to get out of the freshman class, had gone to another institution of about the same grade,
had there founded a Greek letter fraternity which is now widely spread among American universities,
and then, through the influence of his father, who was Secretary of War, had been placed as
a midshipman under Commodore McKenzie on the brig-of-war Somers.  On the coast of Africa a
mutiny was discovered, and as, on examination, young Spencer was found at the head of it, and
papers discovered in his cabin revealed the plan of seizing the ship and using it in a career
of piracy, the young man, in spite of his connection with a member of the Cabinet, was hanged
at the yard-arm with two of his associates.

The most curious relic of him at the college was preserved in the library of the Hermean Society.
It was a copy of ``The Pirates' Own Book'': a glorification of the exploits of ``Blackbeard''
and other great freebooters, profusely adorned with illustrations of their joys and triumphs.
This volume bore on the fly-leaf the words, ``Presented to the Hermean Society by Philip Spencer,''
and was in those days shown as a great curiosity.

The college was at its lowest ebb; of discipline there was none; there were about forty students,
the majority of them, sons of wealthy churchmen, showing no inclination to work and much tendency
to dissipation.  The authorities of the college could not afford to expel or even offend a
student.  for its endowment was so small that it must have all the instruction fees possible,
and must keep on good terms with the wealthy fathers of its scapegrace students.  The scapegraces
soon found this out, and the result was a little pandemonium.  Only about a dozen of our number
studied at all; the rest, by translations, promptings, and evasions escaped without labor.
I have had to do since, as student, professor, or lecturer, with some half-dozen large universities
at home and abroad, and in all of these together have not seen so much carousing and wild dissipation
as I then saw in this little ``Church college'' of which the especial boast was that, owing
to the small number of its students, it was ``able to exercise a direct Christian influence
upon every young man committed to its care.''

The evidences of this Christian influence were not clear.  The president of the college, Dr.
Benjamin Hale, was a clergyman of the highest character; a good scholar, an excellent preacher,
and a wise administrator; but his stature was very small, his girth very large, and his hair
very yellow.  When, then, on the thirteenth day of the month, there was read at chapel from
the Psalter the words, ``And there was little Benjamin, their ruler,'' very irreverent demonstrations
were often made by the students, presumably engaged in worship; demonstrations so mortifying,
indeed, that at last the president frequently substituted for the regular Psalms of the day
one of the beautiful ``Selections'' of Psalms which the American Episcopal Church has so wisely
incorporated into its prayer-book.

But this was by no means the worst indignity which these youth ``under direct Christian influence''
perpetrated upon their reverend instructors.  It was my privilege to behold a professor, an
excellent clergyman, seeking to quell hideous riot in a student's room, buried under a heap
of carpets, mattresses, counterpanes, and blankets; to see another clerical professor forced
to retire through the panel of a door under a shower of lexicons, boots, and brushes, and to
see even the president himself, on one occasion, obliged to leave his lecture-room by a ladder
from a window, and, on another, kept at bay by a shower of beer-bottles.

One favorite occupation was rolling cannon-balls along the corridors at midnight, with frightful
din and much damage: a tutor, having one night been successful in catching and confiscating
two of these, pounced from his door the next night upon a third; but this having been heated
nearly to redness and launched from a shovel, the result was that he wore bandages upon his
hands for many days.

Most ingenious were the methods for ``training freshmen,''-- one of the mildest being the administration
of soot and water by a hose-pipe thrust through the broken panel of a door.  Among general
freaks I remember seeing a horse turned into the chapel, and a stuffed wolf, dressed in a surplice,
placed upon the roof of that sacred edifice.

But the most elaborate thing of the kind I ever saw was the breaking up of a ``Second Adventist''
meeting by a score of student roysterers.  An itinerant fanatic had taken an old wooden meeting-house
in the lower part of the town, had set up on either side of the pulpit large canvas representations
of the man of brass with feet of clay, and other portentous characters of the prophecies, and
then challenged the clergy to meet him in public debate.  At the appointed time a body of college
youth appeared, most sober in habit and demure in manner, having at their head ``Bill'' Howell
of Black Rock and ``Tom'' Clark of Manlius, the two wildest miscreants in the sophomore class,
each over six feet tall, the latter dressed as a respectable farmer, and the former as a country
clergyman, wearing a dress-coat, a white cravat, a tall black hat wrapped in crape, leaning
on a heavy, ivory-knobbed cane, and carrying ostentatiously a Greek Testament.  These disguised
malefactors, having taken their seats in the gallery directly facing the pulpit, the lecturer
expressed his ``satisfaction at seeing clergymen present,'' and began his demonstrations. 
For about five minutes all went well; then ``Bill'' Howell solemnly arose and, in a snuffling
voice, asked permission to submit a few texts from scripture.  Permission being granted, he
put on a huge pair of goggles, solemnly opened his Greek Testament, read emphatically the first
passage which attracted his attention and impressively asked the lecturer what he had to say
to it.  At this, the lecturer, greatly puzzled, asked what the reverend gentleman was reading.
Upon this Howell read in New Testament Greek another utterly irrelevant passage.  In reply
the lecturer said, rather roughly, ``If you will speak English I will answer you.''  At this
Howell said with the most humble suavity, ``Do I understand that the distinguished gentleman
does not recognize what I have been reading?''  The preacher answered, ``I don't understand
any such gibberish; speak English.''  Thereupon Howell threw back his long black hair and launched
forth into eloquent denunciation as follows:  ``Sir, is it possible that you come here to interpret
to us the Holy Bible and do not recognize the language in which that blessed book was written?
Sir, do you dare to call the very words of the Almighty `gibberish?' ''  At this all was let
loose; some students put asafetida on the stove; others threw pigeon-shot against the ceiling
and windows, making a most appalling din, and one wretch put in deadly work with a syringe
thrust through the canvas representation of the man of brass with feet of clay.  But, alas,
Constable John Dey had recognized Howell and Clark, even amid their disguises.  He had dealt
with them too often before.  The next tableau showed them, with their tall hats crushed over
their heads, belaboring John Dey and his myrmidons, and presently, with half a dozen other
ingenuous youth, they were haled to the office of justice.  The young judge who officiated
on this occasion was none other than a personage who will be mentioned with great respect more
than once in these reminiscences,--Charles James Folger,-- afterward my colleague in the State
Senate, Chief Justice of the State and Secretary of the Treasury of the United States.  He
had met Howell often, for they were members of the same Greek letter fraternity,--the thrice
illustrious Sigma Phi,--and, only a few days before, Howell had presented me to him; but there
was no fraternal bond visible now; justice was sternly implacable, and good round fines were
imposed upon all the culprits caught.

The philosophy of all this waywardness and dissipation was very simple.  There was no other
outlet for the animal spirits of these youth.  Athletics were unknown; there was no gymnasium,
no ball-playing, and, though the college was situated on the shore of one of the most beautiful
lakes in the world, no boating.  As regards my own personal relation to this condition of things
I have pictured, it was more that of a good-natured spectator than of an active accomplice.
My nearest friends were in the thick of it, but my tastes kept me out of most of it.  I was
fond of books, and, in the little student's library in my college building I reveled.  Moreover,
I then began to accumulate for myself the library which has since grown to such large proportions.
Still the whole life of the place became more and more unsatisfactory to me, and I determined,
at any cost, to escape from it and find some seat of learning where there was less frolic and
more study.

CHAPTER II

YALE AND EUROPE--1850-1857

At the close of my year at the little Western New York College I felt that it was enough time
wasted, and, anxious to try for something better, urged upon my father my desire to go to one
of the larger New England universities.  But to this he would not listen.  He was assured by
the authorities of the little college that I had been doing well, and his churchmanship, as
well as his respect for the bishop, led him to do what was very unusual with him--to refuse
my request.  Up to this period he had allowed me to take my own course; but now he was determined
that I should take his.  He was one of the kindest of men, but he had stern ideas as to proper
subordination, and these he felt it his duty to maintain.  I was obliged to make a coup d'<e'>tat,
and for a time it cost me dear.  Braving the censure of family and friends, in the early autumn
of 1850 I deliberately left the college, and took refuge with my old instructor P----, who
had prepared me for college at Syracuse, and who was now principal of the academy at Moravia,
near the head of Owasco Lake, some fifty miles distant.  To thus defy the wishes of those dearest
to me was a serious matter.  My father at first took it deeply to heart.  His letters were
very severe.  He thought my career wrecked, avowed that he had lost all interest in it, and
declared that he would rather have received news of my death than of such a disgrace.  But
I knew that my dear mother was on my side.  Her letters remained as affectionate as ever; and
I determined to atone for my disobe- dience by severe and systematic work.  I began to study
more earnestly than ever before, reviewed my mathematics and classics vigorously, and began
a course of reading which has had great influence on all my life since.  Among my books was
D'Aubigne's ``History of the Reformation.''  Its deficiencies were not of a sort to harm me,
its vigor and enthusiasm gave me a great impulse.  I not only read but studied it, and followed
it with every other book on the subject that I could find.  No reading ever did a man more
good.  It not only strengthened and deepened my better purposes, but it continued powerfully
the impulse given me by the historical novels of Scott, and led directly to my devoting myself
to the study and teaching of modern history.  Of other books which influenced me about this
period, Emerson's ``Representative Men'' was one; another was Carlyle's ``Past and Present,''
in which the old Abbot of Bury became one of my ideals; still another was Buskin's ``Seven
Lamps of Architecture''; and to such a degree that this art has given to my life some of its
greatest pleasures.  Ruskin was then at his best.  He had not yet been swept from his bearings
by popular applause, or intoxicated by his own verbosity.  In later years he lost all influence
over me, for, in spite of his wonderful style, he became trivial, whimsical, peevish, goody-goody;--talking
to grown men and women as a dyspeptic Sunday-school teacher might lay down the law to classes
of little girls.  As regards this later period, Max Nordau is undoubtedly right in speaking
of Ruskin's mind as ``turbid and fallacious''; but the time of which I speak was his best,
and his influence upon me was good.  I remember especially that his ``Lamp of Power'' made
a very deep impression upon me.  Carlyle, too, was at his best.  He was the simple, strong
preacher;--with nothing of the spoiled cynic he afterward became.

The stay of three months with my friend--the future bishop--in the little country town, was
also good for me physically.  In our hours of recreation we roamed through the neighboring
woods, shooting squirrels and pigeons with excellent effect on my health.  Meantime I kept
up my correspondence with all the members of the family save my father;--from him there was
no sign.  But at last came a piece of good news.  He was very fond of music, and on the arrival
of Jenny Lind in the United States he went to New York to attend her concerts.  During one
of these my mother turned suddenly toward him and said:  ``What a pity that the boy cannot
hear this; how he would enjoy it!''  My father answered, ``Tell him to come home and see us.''
My mother, of course, was not slow in writing me, and a few days later my father cordially
greeted my home-coming, and all difficulties seemed over.  Shortly after Christmas he started
with me for Yale; but there soon appeared a lion in the path.  Our route lay through Hartford,
the seat of Trinity College, and to my consternation I found at the last moment that he had
letters from our rector and others to the president and professors of that institution.  Still
more alarming, we had hardly entered the train when my father discovered a Trinity student
on board.  Of course, the youth spoke in the highest terms of his college and of his faculty,
and more and more my father was pleased with the idea of staying a day or two at Hartford,
taking a look at Trinity, and presenting our letters of introduction.  During a considerably
extended career in the diplomatic service I have had various occasions to exercise tact, care,
and discretion, but I do not think that my efforts on all these together equaled those which
I then put forth to avoid stopping at Hartford.  At last my father asked me, rather severely,
why I cared so much about going to New Haven, and I framed an answer offhand to meet the case,
saying that Yale had an infinitely finer library than Trinity.  Thereupon he said, ``My boy,
if you will go to Trinity College I will give you the best private library in the United States.''
I said, ``No, I am going to New Haven; I started for New Haven, and I will go there.''  I had
never braved him before.  He said not a word.  We passed quietly through Hartford, and a day
or two later I was entered at Yale.

It was a happy change.  I respected the institution, for its discipline, though at times harsh,
was, on the whole, just, and thereby came a great gain to my own self-respect.  But as to the
education given, never was a man more disappointed at first.  The president and professors
were men of high character and attainments; but to the lower classes the instruction was given
almost entirely by tutors, who took up teaching for bread-winning while going through the divinity
school.  Naturally most of the work done under these was perfunctory.  There was too much reciting
by rote and too little real intercourse between teacher and taught.  The instructor sat in
a box, heard students' translations without indicating anything better, and their answers to
questions with very few suggestions or remarks.  The first text-book in Greek was Xenophon's
``Memorabilia,'' and one of the first men called up was my classmate Delano Goddard.  He made
an excellent translation,--clean, clear, in thoroughly good English; but he elicited no attention
from the instructor, and was then put through sundry grammatical puzzles, among which he floundered
until stopped by the word, ``Sufficient.''  Soon afterward another was called up who rattled
off glibly a translation without one particle of literary merit, and was then plied with the
usual grammatical questions.  Being asked to ``synopsize'' the Greek verb, he went through
the various moods and tenses, in all sorts of ways and in all possible combinations, his tongue
rattling like the clapper of a mill.  When he sat down my next neighbor said to me, ``that
man will be our valedictorian.''  This disgusted me.  If that was the style of classical scholarship
at Yale, I knew that there was nothing in it for me.  It turned out as my friend said.  That
glib reciter did become the valedictorian of the class, but stepped from the commencement stage
into nothingness, and was never heard of more.  Goddard became the editor of one of the most
important metropolitan news- papers of the United States, and, before his early death, distinguished
himself as a writer on political and historical topics.

Nor was it any better in Latin.  We were reading, during that term the ``De Senectute'' of
Cicero,--a beautiful book; but to our tutor it was neither more nor less than a series of pegs
on which to hang Zumpt's rules for the subjunctive mood.  The translation was hurried through,
as of little account.  Then came questions regarding the subjunctives;--questions to which
very few members of the class gave any real attention.  The best Latin scholar in the class,
G. W. S----, since so distinguished as the London correspondent of the ``New York Tribune,''
and, at present, as the New York correspondent of the London ``Times,'' having one day announced
to some of us,--with a very round expletive,--that he would answer no more such foolish questions,
the tutor soon discovered his recalcitrancy, and thenceforward plied him with such questions
and nothing else.  S---- always answered that he was not prepared on them; with the result
that at the Junior Exhibition he received no place on the programme.

In the junior year matters improved somewhat; but, though the professors were most of them
really distinguished men, and one at least, James Hadley, a scholar who, at Berlin or Leipsic,
would have drawn throngs of students from all Christendom, they were fettered by a system which
made everything of gerund-grinding and nothing of literature.

The worst feature of the junior year was the fact that through two terms, during five hours
each week, ``recitations'' were heard by a tutor in ``Olmsted's Natural Philosophy.''  The
text-book was simply repeated by rote.  Not one student in fifty took the least interest in
it; and the man who could give the words of the text most glibly secured the best marks.  One
exceedingly unfortunate result of this kind of instruction was that it so disgusted the class
with the whole subject, that the really excellent lectures of Professor Olmsted, illustrated
by probably the best apparatus then possessed by any American university, were voted a bore.
Almost as bad was the historical instruction given by Professor James Hadley.  It consisted
simply in hearing the student repeat from memory the dates from ``P<u:>tz's Ancient History.''
How a man so gifted as Hadley could have allowed any part of his work to be so worthless, it
is hard to understand.  And, worse remained behind.  He had charge of the class in Thucydides;
but with every gift for making it a means of great good to us, he taught it in the perfunctory
way of that period;--calling on each student to construe a few lines, asking a few grammatical
questions, and then, with hardly ever a note or comment, allowing him to sit down.  Two or
three times during a term something would occur to draw Hadley out, and then it delighted us
all to hear him.  I recall, to this hour, with the utmost pleasure, some of his remarks which
threw bright light into the general subject; but alas! they were few and far between.

The same thing must be said of Professor Thatcher's instruction in Tacitus.  It was always
the same mechanical sort of thing, with, occasionally, a few remarks which really aroused interest.

In the senior year the influence of President Woolsey and Professor Porter was strong for good.
Though the ``Yale system'' fettered them somewhat, their personality often broke through it.
Yet it amazes me to remember that during a considerable portion of our senior year no less
a man than Woolsey gave instruction in history by hearing men recite the words of a text-book;--and
that text-book the Rev. John Lord's little, popular treatise on the ``Modern History of Europe!''
Far better was Woolsey's instruction in Guizot.  That was stimulating.  It not only gave some
knowledge of history, but suggested thought upon it.  In this he was at his best.  He had not
at that time begun his new career as a professor of International Law, and that subject was
treated by a kindly old governor of the State, in a brief course of instruction, which was,
on the whole, rather inadequate.  Professor Porter's instruction in philosophy opened our eyes
and led us to do some thinking for ourselves.  In political economy, during the senior year,
President Woolsey heard the senior class ``recite'' from Wayland's small treatise, which was
simply an abridged presentation of the Manchester view, the most valuable part of this instruction
being the remarks by Woolsey himself, who discussed controverted questions briefly but well.
He also delivered, during one term, a course of lectures upon the historical relations between
the German States, which had some interest, but, not being connected with our previous instruction,
took little hold upon us.  As to natural science, we had in chemistry and geology, doubtless,
the best courses then offered in the United States.  The first was given by Benjamin Silliman,
the elder, an American pioneer in science, and a really great character; the second, by James
Dwight Dana, and in his lecture-room one felt himself in the hands of a master.  I cannot forgive
myself for having yielded to the general indifference of the class toward all this instruction.
It was listlessly heard, and grievously neglected.  The fault was mainly our own; --but it
was partly due to ``The System,'' which led students to neglect all studies which did not tell
upon ``marks'' and ``standing.''

Strange to say, there was not, during my whole course at Yale, a lecture upon any period, subject,
or person in literature, ancient or modern:--our only resource, in this field, being the popular
lecture courses in the town each winter, which generally contained one or two presentations
of literary subjects.  Of these, that which made the greatest impression upon me was by Ralph
Waldo Emerson.  Sundry lectures in my junior year, by Whipple, and at a later period by George
William Curtis, also influenced me.  It was one of the golden periods of English literature,
the climax of the Victorian epoch;--the period of Wordsworth, Tennyson, and the Brownings,
of Thackeray and Dickens, of Macaulay and Carlyle on one side of the Atlantic, and of Emerson,
Irving, Hawthorne, Ban- croft, Prescott, Motley, Lowell, Longfellow, Horace Bushnell, and their
compeers on the other.  Hence came strong influences; but in dealing with them we were left
to ourselves.

Very important in shaping my intellectual development at this time were my fellow-students.
The class of 1853 was a very large one for that day, and embraced far more than the usual proportion
of active-minded men.  Walks and talks with these were of great value to me; thence came some
of my best impulses and suggestions to reading and thought.

Especially fortunate was I in my ``chum,'' the friend that stood closest to me.  He was the
most conservative young man I ever knew, and at the very opposite pole from me on every conceivable
subject.  But his deeply religious character, his thorough scholarship, and his real devotion
to my welfare, were very precious to me.  Our very differences were useful, since they obliged
me to revise with especial care all my main convictions and trains of thought.  He is now,
at this present writing, the Bishop of Michigan, and a most noble and affectionate pastor of
his flock.

The main subjects of interest to us all had a political bearing.  Literature was considered
as mainly subsidiary to political discussion.  The great themes, in the minds of those who
tried to do any thinking, were connected with the tremendous political struggle then drawing
toward its climax in civil war.  Valuable to me was my membership of sundry student fraternities.
They were vealy, but there was some nourishment in them; by far the best of all being a senior
club which, though it had adopted a hideous emblem, was devoted to offhand discussions of social
and political questions;--on the whole, the best club I have ever known.

The studies which interested me most were political and historical; from classical studies
the gerund-grinding and reciting by rote had completely weaned me.  One of our Latin tutors,
having said to me:  ``If you would try you could become a first-rate classical scholar,'' I
answered: ``Mr. B----, I have no ambition to become a classical scholar, as scholarship is
understood here.''

I devoted myself all the more assiduously to study on my own lines, especially in connection
with the subjects taught by President Woolsey in the senior year, and the one thing which encouraged
me was that, at the public reading of essays, mine seemed to interest the class.  Yet my first
trial of strength with my classmates in this respect did not apparently turn out very well.
It was at a prize debate, in one of the large open societies, but while I had prepared my speech
with care, I had given no thought to its presentation, and, as a result, the judges passed
me by.  Next day a tutor told me that Professor Porter wished to see me.  He had been one of
the judges, but it never occurred to me that he could have summoned me for anything save some
transgression of college rules.  But, on my arrival at his room, he began discussing my speech,
said some very kind things of its matter, alluded to some defects in its manner, and all with
a kindness which won my heart.  Thus began a warm personal friendship which lasted through
his professorship and presidency to the end of his life.  His kindly criticism was worth everything
to me; it did far more for me than any prize could have done.  Few professors realize how much
a little friendly recognition may do for a student.  To this hour I bless Dr. Porter's memory.

Nor did my second effort, a competition in essay-writing, turn out much better.  My essay was
too labored, too long, too crabbedly written, and it brought me only half a third prize.

This was in the sophomore year.  But in the junior year came a far more important competition;
that for the Yale Literary Gold Medal, and without any notice of my intention to any person,
I determined to try for it.  Being open to the entire university, the universal expectation
was that it would be awarded to a senior, as had hitherto been the case, and speculations were
rife as to what mem- ber of the graduating class would take it.  When the committee made their
award to the essay on ``The Greater Distinctions in Statesmanship,'' opened the sealed envelopes
and assigned the prize to me, a junior, there was great surprise.  The encouragement came to
me just at the right time, and did me great good.  Later, there were awarded to me the first
Clarke Prize for the discussion of a political subject, and the De Forest Gold Medal, then
the most important premium awarded in the university, my subject being, ``The Diplomatic History
of Modern Times.''  Some details regarding this latter success may serve to show certain ways
in which influence can be exerted powerfully upon a young man.  The subject had been suggested
to me by hearing Edwin Forrest in Bulwer's drama of ``Richelieu.''  The character of the great
cardinal, the greatest statesman that France has produced, made a deep impression upon me,
and suggested the subjects in both the Yale Literary and the De Forest competitions, giving
me not only the initial impulse, but maintaining that interest to which my success was largely
due.  Another spur to success was even more effective.  Having one day received a telegram
from my father, asking me to meet him in New York, I did so, and passed an hour with him, all
the time at a loss to know why he had sent for me.  But, finally, just as I was leaving the
hotel to return to New Haven, he said, ``By the way, there is still another prize to be competed
for, the largest of all.''  ``Yes,'' I answered, ``the De Forest; but I have little chance
for that; for though I shall probably be one of the six Townsend prize men admitted to the
competition, there are other speakers so much better, that I have little hope of taking it.''
He gave me rather a contemptuous look, and said, somewhat scornfully:  ``If I were one of the
first SIX competitors, in a class of over a hundred men, I would try hard to be the first ONE.''
That was all.  He said nothing more, except good-bye.  On my way to New Haven I thought much
of this, and on arriving, went to a student, who had some reputation as an elocutionist, and
engaged him for a course in vocal gymnastics.  When he wished me to recite my oration before
him, I declined, saying that it must be spoken in my own way, not in his; that his way might
be better, but that mine was my own, and I would have no other.  He confined himself, therefore,
to a course of vocal gymnastics, and the result was a surprise to myself and all my friends.
My voice, from being weak and hollow, became round, strong, and flexible.  I then went to a
student in the class above my own, a natural and forcible speaker, and made an arrangement
with him to hear me pronounce my oration, from time to time, and to criticize it in a common-sense
way.  This he did.  At passages where he thought my manner wrong, he raised his finger, gave
me an imitation of my manner, then gave the passage in the way he thought best, and allowed
me to choose between his and mine.  The result was that, at the public competition, I was successful.
This experience taught me what I conceive to be the true theory of elocutionary training in
our universities--vocal gymnastics, on one side; common-sense criticism, on the other.

As to my physical education: with a constitution far from robust, there was need of special
care.  Fortunately, I took to boating.  In an eight-oared boat, spinning down the harbor or
up the river, with G. W. S---- at the stroke --as earnest and determined in the Undine then
as in the New York office of the London ``Times'' now, every condition was satisfied for bodily
exercise and mental recreation.  I cannot refrain from mentioning that our club sent the first
challenge to row that ever passed between Yale and Harvard, even though I am obliged to confess
that we were soundly beaten; but neither that defeat at Lake Quinsigamond, nor the many absurdities
which have grown out of such competitions since, have prevented my remaining an apostle of
college boating from that day to this.  If guarded by common-sense rules enforced with firmness
by college faculties, it gives the maximum of healthful exercise, with a minimum of danger.
The most detestable product of college life is the sickly cynic; and a thor- ough course in
boating, under a good stroke oar, does as much as anything to make him impossible.

At the close of my undergraduate life at Yale I went abroad for nearly three years, and fortunately
had, for a time, one of the best of companions, my college mate, Gilman, later president of
Johns Hopkins University, and now of the Carnegie Institution, who was then, as he has been
ever since, a source of good inspirations to me,-- especially in the formation of my ideas
regarding education.  During the few weeks I then passed in England I saw much which broadened
my views in various ways.  History was made alive to me by rapid studies of persons and places
while traveling, and especially was this the case during a short visit to Oxford, where I received
some strong impressions, which will be referred to in another chapter.  Dining at Christ Church
with Osborne Gordon, an eminent tutor of that period, I was especially interested in his accounts
of John Ruskin, who had been his pupil.  Then, and afterward, while enjoying the hospitalities
of various colleges at Oxford and Cambridge, I saw the excellencies of their tutorial system,
but also had my eyes opened to some of their deficiencies.

Going thence to Paris I settled down in the family of a very intelligent French professor,
where I remained nearly a year.  Not a word of English was spoken in the family; and, with
the daily lesson in a French method, and lectures at the Sorbonne and Coll<e!>ge de France,
the new language soon became familiar.  The lectures then heard strengthened my conception
of what a university should be.  Among my professors were such men as St. Marc Girardin, Arnould,
and, at a later period, Laboulaye.  In connection with the lecture-room work, my studies in
modern history were continued, especially by reading Guizot, Thierry, Mignet, Thiers, Ch<a^>teaubriand,
and others, besides hearing various masterpieces in French dramatic literature, as given at
the Th<e'><a^>tre Fran<c,>ais, where Rachel was then in her glory, and at the Od<e'>on, where
Mlle. Georges, who had begun her career under the first Napoleon, was ending it under Napoleon III.

My favorite subject of study was the French Revolution, and, in the intervals of reading and
lectures, I sought out not only the spots noted in its history, but the men who had taken part
in it.  At the H<o^>tel des Invalides I talked with old soldiers, veterans of the Republic
and of the Napoleonic period, discussing with them the events through which they had passed;
and, at various other places and times, with civilians who had heard orations at the Jacobin
and Cordelier clubs, and had seen the guillotine at work.  The most interesting of my old soldiers
at the Invalides wore upon his breast the cross of the Legion of Honor, which he had received
from Napoleon at Austerlitz.  Still another had made the frightful marches through the Spanish
Peninsula under Soult, and evidently felt very humble in the presence of those who had taken
part in the more famous campaigns under Napoleon himself.  The history of another of my old
soldiers was pathetic.  He was led daily into the cabaret, where my guests were wont to fight
their battles o'er again, his eyes absolutely sightless, and his hair as white as snow.  Getting
into conversation with him I learned that he had gone to Egypt with Bonaparte, had fought at
the Battle of the Pyramids, had been blinded by the glaring sun on the sand of the desert,
and had been an inmate at the Invalides ever since;--more than half a century.  At a later
period I heard from another of my acquaintances how, as a schoolboy, he saw Napoleon beside
his camp-fire at Cannes, just after his landing from Elba.

There still remained at Paris, in those days, one main connecting link between the second empire
and the first, and this was the most contemptible of all the Bonapartes,-- the younger brother
of the great Napoleon,-- J<e'>rome, ex-king of Westphalia.  I saw him, from time to time, and
was much struck by his resemblance to the first emperor.  Though taller, he still had something
of that Roman imperial look, so remarkable in the founder of the family; but in J<e'>rome,
it always recalled to me such Caesars as Tiberius and Vitellius.

It was well known that the ex-king, as well as his son, Prince J<e'>rome Napoleon, were thorns
in the side of Napoleon III, and many stories illustrating this were current during my stay
in Paris, the best, perhaps, being an answer made by Napoleon III to another representative
of his family.  The question having been asked, ``What is the difference between an accident
and a misfortune (un accident et un malheur)?'' the emperor answered.  ``If my cousin, Prince
Napoleon, should fall into the Seine, it would be an ACCIDENT; if anybody were to pull him
out, it would be a MISFORTUNE.''  Although this cousin had some oratorical ability, both he
and his father were most thoroughly despised.  The son bore the nickname of ``Plon-Plon,''
probably with some reference to his reputation for cowardice; the father had won the appellation
of ``Le Roi Loustic,'' and, indeed, had the credit of introducing into the French language
the word ``loustic,'' derived from the fact that, during his short reign at Cassel, King J<e'>rome
was wont, after the nightly orgies at his palace, to dismiss his courtiers with the words:
``Morgen wieder loustic, Messieurs.''

During the summer of 1854 I employed my vacation in long walks and drives with a college classmate
through northern, western, and central France, including Picardy, Normandy, Brittany, and Touraine,
visiting the spots of most historical and architectural interest.  There were, at that time,
few railways in those regions, so we put on blouses and took to the road, sending our light
baggage ahead of us, and carrying only knapsacks.  In every way it proved a most valuable experience.
Pleasantly come back to me my walks and talks with the peasantry, and vividly dwell in my memory
the cathedrals of Beauvais, Amiens, Rouen, Bayeux, Coutances, Le Mans, Tours, Chartres, and
Orl<e'>ans, the fortress of Mont St. Michel, the Ch<a^>teaux of Chenonceaux, Chambord, Nantes,
Am- boise, and Angers, the tombs of the Angevine kings at Fontevrault, and the stone cottage
of Louis XI at Cl<e'>ry.  Visiting the grave of Ch<a^>teaubriand at St. Malo, we met a little
old gentleman, bent with age, but very brisk and chatty.  He was standing with a party of friends
on one side of the tomb, while we stood on the other.  Presently, one of the gentlemen in his
company came over and asked our names, saying that his aged companion was a great admirer of
Ch<a^>teaubriand, and was anxious to know something of his fellow pilgrims.  To this I made
answer, when my interlocutor informed me that the old gentleman was the Prince de Rohan-Soubise.
Shortly afterward the old gentleman came round to us and began conversation, and on my making
answer in a way which showed that I knew his title, he turned rather sharply on me and said,
``How do you know that?''

At this he seemed greatly pleased, grasped my hand, and launched at once into extended conversation.
His great anxiety was to know who was to be the future king of our Republic, and he asked especially
whether Washington had left any direct descendants.  On my answering in the negative, he insisted
that we would have to find some descendant in the collateral line, ``for,'' said he, ``you
can't escape it; no nation can get along for any considerable time without a monarch.''

Returning to Paris I resumed my studies, and, at the request of Mr. Randall, the biographer
of Jefferson, made some search in the French archives for correspondence between Jefferson
and Robespierre,--search made rather to put an end to calumny than for any other purpose.

At the close of this stay in France, by the kindness of the American minister to Russia, Governor
Seymour, of Connecticut, I was invited to St. Petersburg, as an attach<e'> of the American
Legation, and resided for over six months in his household.  It was a most interesting period.
The Crimean War was going on, and the death of the Emperor Nicholas, during my stay, enabled
me to see how a great change in autocratic administration is accomplished.  An important part
of my duty was to accompany the minister as an interpreter, not only at court, but in his interviews
with Nesselrode, Gortschakoff, and others then in power.  This gave me some chance also to
make my historical studies more real by close observation of a certain sort of men who have
had the making of far too much history; but books interested me none the less.  An epoch in
my development, intellectual and moral, was made at this time by my reading large parts of
Gibbon, and especially by a very careful study of Guizot's ``History of Civilization in France,''
which greatly deepened and strengthened the impression made by his ``History of Civilization
in Europe,'' as read under President Woolsey at Yale.  During those seven months in St. Petersburg
and Moscow, I read much in modern European history, paying considerable attention to the political
development and condition of Russia, and, for the first time, learned the pleasures of investigating
the history of our own country.  Governor Seymour was especially devoted to the ideas of Thomas
Jefferson, and late at night, as we sat before the fire, after returning from festivities or
official interviews, we frequently discussed the democratic system, as advocated by Jefferson,
and the autocratic system, as we saw it in the capital of the Czar.  The result was that my
beginning of real study in American history was made by a very close examination of the life
and writings of Thomas Jefferson, including his letters, messages, and other papers, and of
the diplomatic history revealed in the volumes of correspondence preserved in the Legation.
The general result was to strengthen and deepen my democratic creed, and a special result was
the preparation of an article on ``Jefferson and Slavery,'' which, having been at a later period
refused by the ``New Englander,'' at New Haven, on account of its too pronounced sympathy with
democracy against federalism, was published by the ``Atlantic Monthly,'' and led to some acquaintances
of value to me afterward.

Returning from St. Petersburg, I was matriculated at the University of Berlin, and entered
the family of a very scholarly gymnasial professor, where nothing but German was spoken.  During
this stay at the Prussian capital, in the years 1855 and 1856, I heard the lectures of Lepsius,
on Egyptology; August Boeckh, on the History of Greece; Friedrich von Raumer, on the History
of Italy; Hirsch, on Modern History in general; and Carl Ritter, on Physical Geography.  The
lectures of Ranke, the most eminent of German historians, I could not follow.  He had a habit
of becoming so absorbed in his subject, as to slide down in his chair, hold his finger up toward
the ceiling, and then, with his eye fastened on the tip of it, to go mumbling through a kind
of rhapsody, which most of my German fellow-students confessed they could not understand. 
It was a comical sight: half a dozen students crowding around his desk, listening as priests
might listen to the sibyl on her tripod, the other students being scattered through the room,
in various stages of discouragement.  My studies at this period were mainly in the direction
of history, though with considerable reading on art and literature.  Valuable and interesting
to me at this time were the representations of the best dramas of Goethe, Schiller, Lessing,
and Gutzkow, at the Berlin theaters.  Then, too, really began my education in Shakspere, and
the representations of his plays (in Schlegel and Tieck's version) were, on the whole, the
most satisfactory I have ever known.  I thus heard plays of Shakspere which, in English-speaking
countries, are never presented, and, even into those better known, wonderful light was at times
thrown from this new point of view.

As to music, the Berlin Opera was then at the height of its reputation, the leading singer
being the famous Joanna Wagner.  But my greatest satisfaction was derived from the ``Liebig
Classical Concerts.''  These were, undoubtedly, the best instrumental music then given in Europe,
and a small party of us were very assiduous in our attendance.  Three afternoons a week we
were, as a rule, gathered about our table in the garden where the concerts were given, and,
in the midst of us, Alexander Thayer, the biographer of Beethoven, who discussed the music
with us during its intervals.  Beethoven was, for him, the one personage in human history,
and Beethoven's music the only worthy object of human concern.  He knew every composition,
every note, every variant, and had wrestled for years with their profound meanings.  Many of
his explanations were fantastic, but some were suggestive and all were interesting.  Even more
inspiring was another new-found friend, Henry Simmons Frieze; a thorough musician, and a most
lovely character.  He broached no theories, uttered no comments, but sat rapt by the melody
and harmony--transfigured--``his face as it had been the face of an angel.''  In these Liebig
concerts we then heard, for the first time, the music of a new composer,--one Wagner,--and
agreed that while it was all very strange, there was really something in the overture to ``Tannh<a:>user.''

At the close of this stay in Berlin, I went with a party of fellow-students through Austria
to Italy.  The whole journey was a delight, and the passage by steamer from Trieste to Venice
was made noteworthy by a new acquaintance,--James Russell Lowell.  As he had already written
the ``Vision of Sir Launfal,'' the ``Fable for Critics,'' and the ``Biglow Papers,'' I stood
in great awe of him; but this feeling rapidly disappeared in his genial presence.  He was a
student like the rest of us,--for he had been passing the winter at Dresden, working in German
literature, as a preparation for succeeding Longfellow in the professorship at Harvard.  He
came to our rooms, and there linger delightfully in my memory his humorous accounts of Italian
life as he had known it.

During the whole of the journey, it was my exceeding good fortune to be thrown into very close
relations with two of our party, both of whom became eminent Latin professors, and one of whom,--already
referred to,-- Frieze, from his lecture-room in the University of Michigan, afterward did more
than any other man within my knowledge to make classical scholarship a means of culture throughout
our Western States.  My excursions in Rome, under that guidance, I have always looked upon
as among the fortunate things of life.  The day was given to exploration, the evening to discussion,
not merely of archaeological theories, but of the weightier matters pertaining to the history
of Roman civilization and its influence.  Dear Frieze and Fishburne!  How vividly come back
the days in the tower of the Croce di Malta, at Genoa, in our sky-parlor of the Piazza di Spagna
at Rome, and in the old ``Capuchin Hotel'' at Amalfi, when we held high debate on the analogies
between the Roman Empire and the British, and upon various kindred subjects.

An episode, of much importance to me at this time, was my meeting our American minister at
Naples, Robert Dale Owen.  His talks on the political state of Italy, and his pictures of the
monstrous despotism of ``King Bomba'' took strong hold upon me.  Not even the pages of Colletta
or of Settembrini have done so much to arouse in me a sense of the moral value of political
history.

Then, too, I made the first of my many excursions through the historic towns of Italy.  My
reading of Sismondi's ``Italian Republics'' had deeply interested me in their history, and
had peopled them again with their old turbulent population.  I seemed to see going on before
my eyes the old struggle between Guelphs and Ghibellines, and between the demagogues and the
city tyrants.  In the midst of such scenes my passion for historical reading was strengthened,
and the whole subject took on new and deeper meanings.

On my way northward, excursions among the cities of southern France, especially Nismes, Arles,
and Orange, gave me a far better conception of Roman imperial power than could be obtained
in Italy alone, and Avignon, Bourges, and Toulouse deepened my conceptions of mediaeval history.

Having returned to America in the summer of 1856 and met my class, assembled to take the master's
degree in course at Yale, I was urged by my old Yale friends, especially by Porter and Gilman,
to remain in New Haven.  They virtually pledged me a position in the school of art about to
be established; but my belief was in the value of historical studies, and I accepted an election
to a professorship of history at the University of Michigan.  The work there was a joy to me
from first to last, and my relations with my students of that period, before I had become distracted
from them by the cares of an executive position, were among the most delightful of my life.
Then, perhaps, began the most real part of my education.  The historical works of Buckle, Lecky,
and Draper, which were then appearing, gave me a new and fruitful impulse; but most stimulating
of all was the atmosphere coming from the great thought of Darwin and Herbert Spencer,-- an
atmosphere in which history became less and less a matter of annals, and more and more a record
of the unfolding of humanity.  Then, too, was borne in upon me the meaning of the proverb docendo
disces.  I found energetic Western men in my classes ready to discuss historical questions,
and discovered that in order to keep up my part of the discussions, as well as to fit myself
for my class-room duties, I must work as I had never worked before.  The education I then received
from my classes at the University of Michigan was perhaps the most effective of all.  It was
on the third of the three election days which carried Andrew Jackson a second time into the
Presidency.  Since that period, the election, with its paralysis of business, ghastly campaign
lying, and monstrous vilification of candidates, has been concentrated into one day; but at
that time all the evil passions of a presidential election were allowed to ferment and gather
vitriolic strength during three days.

I was born into a politically divided family.  My grandfather, on my mother's side, whose name
I was destined to bear, was an ardent Democrat; had, as such, represented his district in the
State legislature, and other public bodies; took his political creed from Thomas Jefferson,
and adored Andrew Jackson.  My father, on the other hand, was in all his antecedents and his
personal convictions, a devoted Whig, taking his creed from Alexander Hamilton, and worshiping
Henry Clay.

This opposition between my father and grandfather did not degenerate into personal bitterness;
but it was very earnest, and, in later years, my mother told me that when Hayne, of South Carolina,
made his famous speech, charging the North with ill-treatment of the South, my grandfather
sent a copy of it to my father, as unanswerable; but that, shortly afterward, my father sent
to my grandfather the speech of Daniel Webster, in reply, and that, when this was read, the
family allowed that the latter had the better of the argument.  I cannot help thinking that
my grandfather must have agreed with them, tacitly, if not openly.  He loved the Hampshire
Hills of Massachusetts, from which he came.  Year after year he took long journeys to visit
them, and Webster's magnificent reference to the ``Old Bay State'' must have aroused his sympathy
and pride.

Fortunately, at that election, as at so many others since, the good sense of the nation promptly
accepted the result, and after its short carnival of political passion, dismissed the whole
subject; the minority simply leaving the responsibility of public affairs to the majority,
and all betaking themselves again to their accustomed vocations.

I do not remember, during the first seven years of my life, ever hearing any mention of political
questions.  The only thing I heard during that period which brings back a chapter in American
politics, was when, at the age of five years, I attended an infant school and took part in
a sort of catechism, all the children rising and replying to the teacher's questions.  Among
these were the following:

Q.  Who is President of the United States?

A.  Martin Van Buren.

Q.  Who is governor of the State of New York?

A.  William L. Marcy.

This is to me somewhat puzzling, for I was four years old when Martin Van Buren was elected,
and my father was his very earnest opponent, yet, though I recall easily various things which
occurred at that age and even earlier, I have no remembrance of any general election before
1840, and my only recollection of the first New York statesman elected to the Presidency is
this mention of his name, in a child's catechism.

My recollections of American polities begin, then, with the famous campaign of 1840, and of
that they are vivid.  Our family had, in 1839, removed to Syracuse, which, although now a city
of about one hundred and twenty thousand inhabitants, was then a village of fewer than six
thousand; but, as the central town of the State, it was already a noted gathering-place for
political conventions and meetings.  The great Whig mass-meeting held there, in 1840, was long
famous as the culmination of the campaign between General Harrison and Martin Van Buren.

As a President, Mr. Van Buren had fallen on evil times.  It was a period of political finance;
of demagogical methods in public business; and the result was ``hard times,'' with an intense
desire throughout the nation for a change.  This desire was represented especially by the Whig
party.  General Harrison had been taken up as its candidate, not merely because he had proved
his worth as governor of the Northwestern Territory, and as a senator in Congress, but especially
as the hero of sundry fights with the Indians, and, above all, of the plucky little battle
at Tippecanoe.  The most popular campaign song, which I soon learned to sing lustily, was ``Tippecanoe
and Tyler, Too,'' and sundry lines of it expressed, not only my own deepest political convictions
and aspirations, but also those cherished by myriads of children of far larger growth.

The campaign was an apotheosis of tom-foolery.  General Harrison had lived the life, mainly,
of a Western farmer, and for a time, doubtless, exercised amid his rude surroundings the primitive
hospitality natural to sturdy Western pioneers.  On these facts the changes were rung.  In
every town and village a log cabin was erected where the Whigs held their meetings; and the
bringing of logs, with singing and shouting, to build it, was a great event; its front door
must have a wooden latch on the inside; but the latch-string must run through the door; for
the claim which the friends of General Harrison especially insisted upon was that he not only
lived in a log cabin, but that his latch-string was always out, in token that all his fellow-citizens
were welcome at his fireside.

Another element in the campaign was hard cider.  Every log cabin must have its barrel of this
acrid fluid, as the antithesis of the alleged beverage of President Van Buren at the White
House.  He, it was asserted, drank champagne, and on this point I remember that a verse was
sung at log-cabin meetings which, after describing, in a prophetic way the arrival of the ``Farmer
of North Bend'' at the White House, ran as follows:

   ``They were all very merry, and drinking champagne
     When the Farmer, impatient, knocked louder again;
     Oh, Oh, said Prince John, I very much fear
     We must quit this place the very next year.''

``Prince John'' was President Van Buren's brilliant son; famous for his wit and eloquence,
who, in after years, rose to be attorney-general of the State of New York, and who might have
risen to far higher positions had his principles equaled his talents.

Another feature at the log cabin, and in all political processions, was at least one raccoon;
and if not a live raccoon in a cage, at least a raccoon skin nailed upon the outside of the
cabin.  This gave local color, but hence came sundry jibes from the Democrats, for they were
wont to refer to the Whigs as ``coons,'' and to their log cabins as ``coon pens.''  Against
all these elements of success, added to promises of better times, the Democratic party could
make little headway.  Martin Van Buren, though an admirable public servant in many ways, was
discredited.  M. de Bacourt, the French Minister at Washington, during his administration,
was, it is true, very fond of him, and this cynical scion of French nobility wrote in a private
letter, which has been published in these latter days, ``M. Van Buren is the most perfect imitation
of a gentleman I ever saw.''  But this commendation had not then come to light, and the main
reliance of the Democrats in capturing the popular good-will was their candidate for the Vice-Presidency,
Colonel Richard M. Johnson, of Kentucky.  He, too, had fought in the Indian wars, and bravely.
Therefore it was that one of the Whig songs which especially rejoiced me, ran:

     ``They shout and sing, Oh humpsy dumpsy,
       Colonel Johnson killed Tecumseh.''

Among the features of that period which excited my imagination were the enormous mass meetings,
with processions, coming in from all points of the compass, miles in length, and bearing every
patriotic device and political emblem.  Here the Whigs had infinitely the advantage.  Their
campaign was positive and aggressive.  On platform- wagons were men working at every trade
which expected to be benefited by Whig success; log cabins of all sorts and sizes, hard-cider
barrels, coon pens, great canvas balls, which were kept ``a-rolling on,'' canoes, such as General
Harrison had used in crossing Western rivers, eagles that screamed in defiance, and cocks that
crowed for victory.  The turning ball had reference to sundry lines in the foremost campaign
song.  For the October election in Maine having gone Whig by a large majority, clearly indicating
what the general result was to be in November, the opening lines ran as follows:

   ``Oh, have you heard the news from Maine--Maine--Maine?
     Rolling the country through?
     It is the ball a-rolling on
     For Tippecanoe and Tyler, too.''
                  &c., &c., &c.

Against all this the Democrats, with their negative and defensive platform, found themselves
more and more at a disadvantage; they fought with desperation, but in vain, and one of their
most unlucky ventures to recover their position was an effort to undermine General Harrison's
military reputation.  For this purpose they looked about, and finally found one of their younger
congressional representatives, considered to be a rising man, who, having gained some little
experience in the Western militia, had received the honorary title of ``General,'' Isaac M.
Crary, of Michigan; him they selected to make a speech in Congress exhibiting and exploding
General Harrison's military record.  He was very reluctant to undertake it, but at last yielded,
and, after elaborate preparation, made an argument loud and long, to show that General Harrison
was a military ignoramus.  The result was both comic and pathetic.  There was then in Congress
the most famous stump-speaker of his time, and perhaps of all times, a man of great physical,
intellectual, and moral vigor; powerful in argument, sympathetic in manner, of infinite wit
and humor, and, unfortunately for General Crary, a Whig,--Thomas Corwin, of Ohio.  Mr. Crary's
heavy, tedious, perfunctory arraignment of General Harrison being ended, Corwin rose and began
an offhand speech on ``The Military Services of General Isaac M. Crary.'' In a few minutes
he had as his audience, not only the House of Representatives, but as many members of the Senate,
of the Supreme Court, and visitors to the city, as could be crowded into the congressional
chamber, and, of all humorous speeches ever delivered in Congress, this of Corwin has come
down to us as the most successful.  Long afterward, parts of it lingered in our ``speakers'
manuals'' and were declaimed in the public schools as examples of witty oratory.  Many years
later, when the House of Representatives left the old chamber and went into that which it now
occupies, Thurlow Weed wrote an interesting article on scenes he had witnessed in the old hall,
and most vivid of all was his picture of this speech by Corwin.  His delineations of Crary's
brilliant exploits, his portrayal of the valiant charges made by Crary's troops on muster days
upon the watermelon patches of Michigan, not only convulsed his audience, but were echoed throughout
the nation, Whigs and Democrats laughing alike; and when John Quincy Adams, in a speech shortly
afterward, referred to the man who brought on this tempest of fun as ``the late General Crary,''
there was a feeling that the adjective indicated a fact.  It really was so; Crary, although
a man of merit, never returned to Congress, but was thenceforth dropped from political life.
More than twenty years afterward, as I was passing through Western Michigan, a friend pointed
out to me his tombstone, in a little village cemetery, with comments, half comic, half pathetic;
and I also recall a mournful feeling when one day, in going over the roll of my students at
the University of Michigan, I came upon one who bore the baptismal name of Isaac Crary.  Evidently,
the blighted young statesman had a daughter who, in all this storm of ridicule and contempt,
stood by him, loved him, and proudly named her son after him.

Another feature in the campaign also impressed me.  A blackguard orator, on the Whig side,
one of those whom great audiences applaud for the moment and ever afterward despise,--a man
named Ogle,--made a speech which depicted the luxury prevailing at the White House, and among
other evidences of it, dwelt upon the ``gold spoons'' used at the President's table, denouncing
their use with such unction that, for the time, unthinking people regarded Martin Van Buren
as a sort of American Vitellius.  As a matter of fact, the scanty silver-gilt table utensils
at the White House have been shown, in these latter days, in some very pleasing articles written
by General Harrison's grandson, after this grandson had himself retired from the Presidency,
to have been, for the most part, bought long before;--and by order of General Washington.

The only matter of political importance which, as a boy eight years old, I seized upon, and
which dwells in my memory, was the creation of the ``Sub-Treasury.''  That this was a wise
measure seems now proven by the fact that through all the vicissitudes of politics, from that
day to this, it has remained and rendered admirable service.  But at that time it was used
as a weapon against the Democratic party, and came to be considered by feather- brained partizans,
young and old, as the culmination of human wickedness.  As to what the ``Sub-Treasury'' really
was I had not the remotest idea; but this I knew;-- that it was the most wicked outrage ever
committed by a remorseless tyrant upon a long-suffering people.

In November of 1840 General Harrison was elected.  In the following spring he was inaugurated,
and the Whigs being now for the first time in power, the rush for office was fearful.  It was
undoubtedly this crushing pressure upon the kindly old man that caused his death.  What British
soldiers, and Indian warriors, and fire, flood, and swamp fevers could not accomplish in over
sixty years, was achieved by the office-seeking hordes in just one month.  He was inaugurated
on the fourth of March and died early in April.

I remember, as if it were yesterday, my dear mother coming to my bedside, early in the morning,
and saying to me, ``President Harrison is dead.''  I wondered what was to become of us.  He
was the first President who had died during his term of service, and a great feeling of relief
came over me when I learned that his high office had devolved upon the Vice-President.

But now came a new trouble, and my youthful mind was soon sadly agitated.  The Whig papers,
especially the ``New York Express'' and ``Albany Evening Journal,'' began to bring depressing
accounts of the new President, --tidings of extensive changes in the offices throughout the
country, and especially in the post-offices.  At first the Whig papers published these under
the heading ``Appointments by the President.''  But soon the heading changed; it became ``Appointments
by Judas Iscariot,'' or ``Appointments by Benedict Arnold,'' and war was declared against President
Tyler by the party that elected him.  Certain it is that no party ever found itself in a worse
position than did the Whigs, when their Vice-President came into the Chief Magistracy; and
equally certain is it that this position was the richly earned punishment of their own folly.

I have several times since had occasion to note the carelessness of National and State conventions
in nominating a candidate for the second place upon the ticket--whether Vice-President or Lieutenant-Governor.
It would seem that the question of questions--the nomination to the first office--having been
settled, there comes a sort of collapse in these great popular assemblies, and that then, for
the second office, it is very often anybody's race and mainly a matter of chance.  In this
way alone can be explained several nominations which have been made to second offices, and
above all, that of John Tyler.  As a matter of fact, he was not commended to the Whig party
on any solid grounds.  His whole political life had shown him an opponent of their main ideas;
he was, in fact, a Southern doctrinaire, and frequently suffered from acute attacks of that
very troublesome political disease, Virginia metaphysics.  As President he attempted to enforce
his doctrines, and when Whig leaders, and above all Henry Clay attempted, not only to resist,
but to crush him, he asserted his dignity at the cost of his party, and finally tried that
which other accidental Presidents have since tried with no better success, namely, to build
up a party of his own by a new distribution of offices.  Never was a greater failure.  Mr.
Tyler was dropped by both parties and disappeared from American political life forever.  I
can now see that he was a man obedient to his convictions of duty, such as they were, and in
revolt against attempts of Whig leaders to humiliate him; but then, to my youthful mind, he
appeared the very incarnation of evil.

My next recollections are of the campaign of 1844.  Again the Whig party took courage, and
having, as a boy of twelve years, acquired more earnest ideas regarding the questions at issue,
I helped, with other Whig boys, to raise ash-poles, and to hurrah lustily for Clay at public
meetings.  On the other hand, the Democratic boys hurrahed as lustily around their hickory
poles and, as was finally proved, to much better purpose.  They sang doggerel which, to me,
was blasphemous, and especially a song with the following refrain:

   ``Alas poor Cooney Clay,
     Alas poor Cooney Clay,
     You never can be President,
     For so the people say.''

The ash-poles had reference to Ashland, Clay's Kentucky estate; and the hickory poles recalled
General Jackson's sobriquet, ``Old Hickory.''  For the Democratic candidate in 1844, James
Knox Polk, was considered heir to Jackson's political ideas.  The campaign of 1844 was not
made so interesting by spectacular outbursts of tom-foolery as the campaign of 1840 had been.
The sober second thought of the country had rather sickened people of that sort of thing; still,
there was quite enough of it, especially as shown in caricatures and songs.  The poorest of
the latter was perhaps one on the Democratic side, for as the Democratic candidates were Polk
of Tennessee and Dallas of Pennsylvania, one line of the song embraced probably the worst pun
ever made, namely--

     ``PORK in the barrel, and DOLLARS in the pocket.''

It was at this period that the feeling against the extension of slavery, especially as indicated
in the proposed annexation of Texas, began to appear largely in politics, and though Clay at
heart detested slavery and always refused to do the bidding of its supporters beyond what he
thought absolutely necessary in preserving the Union, an unfortunate letter of his led great
numbers of anti- slavery men to support a separate anti-slavery ticket, the candidate being
James G. Birney.  The result was that the election of Clay became impossible.  Mr. Polk was
elected, and under him came the admission of Texas, which caused the Mexican War, and gave
slavery a new lease of life.  The main result, in my own environment, was that my father and
his friends, thenceforward for a considerable time, though detesting slavery, held all abolitionists
and anti-slavery men in contempt,--as unpatriotic because they had defeated Henry Clay, and
as idiotic because they had brought on the annexation of Texas and thereby the supremacy of
the slave States.

But the flame of liberty could not be smothered by friends or blown out by enemies; it was
kept alive by vigorous counterblasts in the press, and especially fed by the lecture system,
which was then at the height of its efficiency.  Among the most powerful of lecturers was John
Parker Hale, senator of the United States from New Hampshire, his subject being, ``The Last
Gladiatorial Combat at Rome.''  Taking from Gibbon the story of the monk Telemachus, who ended
the combats in the arena by throwing himself into them and sacrificing his life, Hale suggested
to his large audiences an argument that if men wished to get rid of slavery in our country
they must be ready to sacrifice themselves if need be.  His words sank deep into my mind, and
I have sometimes thought that they may have had something to do in leading John Brown to make
his desperate attempt on slavery at Harper's Ferry.

How blind we all were!  Henry Clay, a Kentucky slave- holder, would have saved us.  Infinitely
better than the violent solutions proposed to us was his large statesman- like plan of purchasing
the slave children as they were born and setting them free.  Without bloodshed, and at cost
of the merest nothing as compared to the cost of the Civil War, he would thus have solved the
problem; but it was not so to be.  The guilt of the nation was not to be so cheaply atoned
for.  Fanatics, North and South, opposed him and, as a youth, I yielded to their arguments.

Four years later, in 1848, came a very different sort of election.  General Zachary Taylor,
who had shown ster- ling qualities in the Mexican War, was now the candidate of the Whigs,
and against him was nominated Mr. Cass, a general of the War of 1812, afterward governor of
the Northwestern Territory, and senator from Michigan.  As a youth of sixteen, who by that
time had become earnestly interested in politics, I was especially struck by one event in this
campaign.  The Democrats of course realized that General Taylor, with the prestige gained in
the Mexican War, was a very formidable opponent.  Still, if they could keep their party together,
they had hopes of beating him.  But a very large element in their party had opposed the annexation
of Texas and strongly disliked the extension of slavery;--this wing of the party in New York
being known as the ``Barn Burners,'' because it was asserted that they ``believed in burning
the barn to drive the rats out.''  The question was what these radical gentlemen would do.
That question was answered when a convention, controlled largely by the anti-slavery Democrats
of New York and other States, met at Buffalo and nominated Martin Van Buren to the Presidency.
For a time it was doubtful whether he would accept the nomination.  On one side it was argued
that he could not afford to do so, since he had no chance of an election, and would thereby
forever lose his hold upon the Democratic party; but, on the other hand, it was said that he
was already an old man; that he realized perfectly the impossibility of his re<e:>lection,
and that he had a bitter grudge against the Democratic candidate, General Cass, who had voted
against confirming him when he was sent as minister to Great Britain, thus obliging him to
return home ingloriously.  He accepted the nomination.

On the very day which brought the news of this acceptance, General Cass arrived in Syracuse,
on his way to his home at Detroit.  I saw him welcomed by a great procession of Democrats,
and marched under a broiling sun, through dusty streets, to the City Hall, where he was forced
to listen and reply to fulsome speeches prophesying his election, which he and all present
knew to be impos- sible.  For Mr. Van Buren's acceptance of the ``free soil'' nomination was
sure to divide the Democratic vote of the State of New York, thus giving the State to the Whigs;
and in those days the proverb held good, ``As New York goes, so goes the Union.''

For years afterward there dwelt vividly in my mind the picture of this old, sad man marching
through the streets, listening gloomily to the speeches, forced to appear confident of victory,
yet evidently disheartened and disgusted.

Very vivid are my recollections of State conventions at this period.  Syracuse, as the ``Central
City,'' was a favorite place for them, and, as they came during the summer vacations, boys
of my age and tastes were able to admire the great men of the hour,--now, alas, utterly forgotten.
We saw and heard the leaders of all parties.  Many impressed me; but one dwells in my memory,
on account of a story which was told of him.  This was a very solemn, elderly gentleman who
always looked very wise but said nothing,--William Bouck of Schoharie County.  He had white
hair and whiskers, and having been appointed canal commissioner of the State, had discharged
his duties by driving his old white family nag and buggy along the towing-path the whole length
of the canals, keeping careful watch of the contractors, and so, in his simple, honest way,
had saved the State much money.  The result was the nickname of the ``Old White Hoss of Schoharie,''
and a reputation for simplicity and honesty which made him for a short time governor of the State.

A story then told of him reveals something of his character.  Being informed that Bishop Hughes
of New York was coming to Albany, and that it would be well to treat him with especial courtesy,
the governor prepared himself to be more than gracious, and, on the arrival of the bishop,
greeted him most cordially with the words, ``How do you do, Bishop; I hope you are well.  How
did you leave Mrs. Hughes and your family?''  To this the bishop answered, ``Governor, I am
very well, but there is no Mrs. Hughes; bishops in our church don't marry.''  ``Good gracious,''
answered the governor, ``you don't say so; how long has that been?''  The bishop must have
thoroughly enjoyed this.  His Irish wit made him quick both at comprehension and repartee.
During a debate on the school question a leading Presbyterian merchant of New York, Mr. Hiram
Ketchum, made a very earnest speech against separate schools for Roman Catholics, and presently,
turning to Bishop Hughes, said, ``Sir, we respect you, sir, but, sir, we can't go your purgatory,
sir.''  To this the bishop quietly replied, ``You might go further and fare worse.''

Another leading figure, but on the Whig side, was a State senator, commonly known as ``Bray''
Dickinson, to distinguish him from D. S. Dickinson who had been a senator of the United States,
and a candidate for the Presidency.  ``Bray'' Dickinson was a most earnest supporter of Mr.
Seward; staunch, prompt, vigorous, and really devoted to the public good.  One story regarding
him shows his rough-and-readiness.

During a political debate in the old Whig days, one of his Democratic brother senators made
a long harangue in favor of Martin Van Buren as a candidate for the Presidency, and in the
course of his speech referred to Mr. Van Buren as ``the Curtius of the Republic.''  Upon this
Dickinson jumped up, went to some member better educated in the classics than himself, and
said, ``Who in thunder is this Curtis that this man is talking about?''  ``It isn't Curtis,
it 's Curtius, ``was the reply.  ``Well, now, `` said Dickinson, ``what did Curtius do?'' 
``Oh,'' said his informant, ``he threw himself into an abyss to save the Roman Republic.''
Upon this Dickinson returned to his seat, and as soon as the Democratic speaker had finished,
arose and said:  ``Mr. President, I deny the justice of the gentleman's reference to Curtius
and Martin Van Buren.  What did Curtius do?  He threw himself, sir, into an abyss to save his
country.  What, sir, did Martin Van Buren do?  He threw his country into an abyss to save himself.''

Rarely, if ever, has any scholar used a bit of classical knowledge to better purpose.

Another leading figure, at a later period, was a Democrat, Fernando Wood, mayor of New York,
a brilliant desperado; and on one occasion I saw the henchmen whom he had brought with him
take possession of a State convention and deliberately knock its president, one of the most
respected men in the State, off the platform.  It was an unfortunate performance for Mayor
Wood, since the disgust and reaction thereby aroused led all factions of the Democratic party
to unite against him.

Other leading men were such as Charles O'Conor and John Van Buren; the former learned and generous,
but impracticable; the latter brilliant beyond belief, but not considered as representing any
permanent ideas or principles.

During the campaign of 1848, as a youth of sixteen, I took the liberty of breaking from the
paternal party; my father voting for General Taylor, I hurrahing for Martin Van Buren.  I remember
well how one day my father earnestly remonstrated against this.  He said, ``My dear boy, you
cheer Martin Van Buren's name because you believe that if he is elected he will do something
against slavery: in the first place, he cannot be elected; and in the second place, if you
knew him as we older people do, you would not believe in his attachment to any good cause whatever.''

The result of the campaign was that General Taylor was elected, and I recall the feeling of
awe and hope with which I gazed upon his war-worn face, for the first and last time, as he
stopped to receive the congratulations of the citizens of Syracuse;--hope, alas, soon brought
to naught, for he, too, soon succumbed to the pressure of official care, and Millard Fillmore
of New York, the Vice- President, reigned in his stead.

I remember Mr. Fillmore well.  He was a tall, large, fine-looking man, with a face intelligent
and kindly, and he was noted both as an excellent public servant and an effective public speaker.
He had been comptroller of the State of New York,--then the most important of State offices,
had been defeated as Whig candidate for governor, and had been a representative in Congress.
He was the second of the accidental Presidents, and soon felt it his duty to array himself
on the side of those who, by compromise with the South on the slavery question, sought to maintain
and strengthen the Federal Union.  Under him came the compromise measures on which our great
statesmen of the middle period of the nineteenth century, Clay, Webster, Calhoun, and Benton,
made their last speeches.  Mr. Fillmore was undoubtedly led mainly by patriotic motives, in
promoting the series of measures which were expected to end all trouble between the North and
South, but which, unfortunately, embraced the Fugitive Slave Law; yet this, as I then thought,
rendered him accursed.  I remember feeling an abhorrence for his very name, and this feeling
was increased when there took place, in the city of Syracuse, the famous ``Jerry Rescue.''

CHAPTER IV EARLY MANHOOD--1851-1857

On the first day of October, 1851, there was shuffling about the streets of Syracuse, in the
quiet pursuit of his simple avocations, a colored person, as nearly ``of no account'' as any
ever seen.  So far as was known he had no surname, and, indeed, no Christian name, save the
fragment and travesty,--``Jerry.''

Yet before that day was done he was famous; his name, such as it was, resounded through the
land; and he had become, in all seriousness, a weighty personage in American history.

Under the law recently passed, he was arrested, openly and in broad daylight, as a fugitive
slave, and was carried before the United States commissioner, Mr. Joseph Sabine, a most kindly
public officer, who in this matter was sadly embarrassed by the antagonism between his sworn
duty and his personal convictions.

Thereby, as was supposed, were fulfilled the Law and the Prophets--the Law being the fugitive
slave law recently enacted, and the Prophets being no less than Henry Clay and Daniel Webster.

For, as if to prepare the little city to sacrifice its cherished beliefs, Mr. Clay had some
time before made a speech from the piazza of the Syracuse House, urging upon his fellow-citizens
the compromises of the Constitution; and some months later Mr. Webster appeared, spoke from
a balcony near the City Hall, and to the same purpose; but more so.  The latter statesman was
prophetic, not only in the hortatory, but in the predictive sense; for he declared not only
that the Fugitive Slave Law must be enforced, but that it WOULD be enforced, and he added,
in substance: ``it will be enforced throughout the North in spite of all opposition--even in
this city-- even in the midst of your abolition conventions.''  This piece of prophecy was
accompanied by a gesture which seemed to mean much; for the great man's hand was waved toward
the City Hall just across the square--the classic seat and center of abolition conventions.

How true is the warning, ``Don't prophesy unless you know!''  The arrest of Jerry took place
within six months after Mr. Webster's speech, and indeed while an abolition convention was
in session at that same City Hall; but when the news came the convention immediately dissolved,
the fire-bells began to ring, a crowd moved upon the commissioner's office, surged into it,
and swept Jerry out of the hands of the officers.  The authorities having rallied, re-arrested
the fugitive, and put him in confinement and in irons.  But in the evening the assailants returned
to the assault, carried the jail by storm, rescued Jerry for good, and spirited him off safe
and sound to Canada, thus bringing to nought the fugitive slave law, as well as the exhortations
of Mr. Clay and the predictions of Mr. Webster.

This rescue produced great excitement throughout the nation.  Various persons were arrested
for taking part in it, and their trials were adjourned from place to place, to the great hardship
of all concerned.  During a college vacation I was present at one of these trials at Canandaigua,
the United States Judge, before whom it was held, being the Hon. N. K. Hall, who had been Mr.
Fillmore's law partner in Buffalo.  The evening before the trial an anti-slavery meeting was
held, which I attended.  It was opened with prayer by a bishop of the African Methodist Episcopal
Church, Loguen, and of all prayers I have ever heard, this dwells in my mind as perhaps the
most impressive.  The colored minister's petitions for his race, bond and free, for Jerry and
for those who had sought to rescue him, for the souls of the kidnappers, and for the country
which was to his people a land of bondage, were most pathetic.  Then arose Gerrit Smith.  I
remember seeing and hearing him once at a Republican State Convention in the City Hall at Syracuse,
when, having come in for a few moments as a spectator, he was recognized by the crowd and greeted
with overwhelming calls for a speech.  He was standing at the entrance door, towering above
all about him, and there was a general cry for him to come forward to the platform.  He declined
to come forward; but finally observed to those near him, in his quiet, natural way, with the
utmost simplicity, ``Oh, I shall be heard.''  At this a shout went up from the entire audience;
for every human being in that great hall had heard these words perfectly, though uttered in
his usual conversational voice.

I also remember once entering the old Delavan House at Albany, with a college friend of mine,
afterward Bishop of Maine, and seeing, at the other end of a long hall, Gerrit Smith in quiet
conversation.  In a moment we heard his voice, and my friend was greatly impressed by it, declaring
he had never imagined such an utterance possible.  It was indeed amazing; it was like the deep,
clear, rich tone from the pedal bass of a cathedral organ.  During his career in Congress,
it was noted that he was the only speaker within remembrance who without effort made himself
heard in every part of the old chamber of the House of Representatives, which was acoustically
one of the worst halls ever devised.  And it was not a case of voice and nothing else; his
strength of argument, his gift of fit expression, and his wealth of illustration were no less
extraordinary.

On this occasion at Canandaigua he rose to speak, and every word went to the hearts of his
audience.  ``Why,'' he began, ``do they conduct these harassing proceedings against these men?
If any one is guilty, I am guilty.  With Samuel J. May I proposed the Jerry Rescue.  We are
responsible for it; why do they not prosecute us?''  And these words were followed by a train
of cogent reasoning and stirring appeal.

The Jerry Rescue trials only made matters worse.  Their injustice disgusted the North, and
their futility angered the South.  They revealed one fact which especially vexed the Southern
wing of the Democratic party, and this was, that their Northern allies could not be depended
upon to execute the new compromise.  In this Syracuse rescue one of the most determined leaders
was a rough burly butcher, who had been all his life one of the loudest of pro-slavery Democrats,
and who, until he saw Jerry dragged in manacles through the streets, had been most violent
in his support of the fugitive slave law.  The trials also stimulated the anti-slavery leaders
and orators to new vigor.  Garrison, Phillips, Gerrit Smith, Sumner, and Seward aroused the
anti-slavery forces as never before, and the ``Biglow Papers'' of James Russell Lowell, which
made Northern pro-slavery men ridiculous, were read with more zest than ever.

But the abolition forces had the defects of their qualities, and their main difficulty really
arose from the stimulus given to a thin fanaticism.  There followed, in the train of the nobler
thinkers and orators, the ``Fool Reformers,''--sundry long-haired men and short-haired women,
who thought it their duty to stir good Christian people with blasphemy, to deluge the founders
of the Republic with blackguardism, and to invent ever more and more ingenious ways for driving
every sober-minded man and woman out of the anti-slavery fold.  More than once in those days
I hung my head in disgust as I listened to these people, and wondered, for the moment, whether,
after all, even the supremacy of slaveholders might not be more tolerable than the new heavens
and the new earth, in which should dwell such bedraggled, screaming, denunciatory creatures.

At the next national election the Whigs nominated General Scott, a man of extraordinary merit
and of grandiose appearance; but of both these qualities he was himself unfortunately too well
aware; as a result the Democrats gave him the name of ``Old Fuss and Feathers,'' and a few
unfortunate speeches, in one of which he expressed his joy at hearing that ``sweet Irish brogue,''
brought the laugh of the campaign upon him.

On the other hand the Democrats nominated Franklin Pierce; a man greatly inferior to General
Scott in military matters, but who had served well in the State politics of New Hampshire and
in Congress, was widely beloved, of especially attractive manners, and of high personal character.

He also had been in the Mexican War, but though he had risen to be brigadier-general, his military
record amounted to very little.  There was in him, no doubt, some alloy of personal with public
motives, but it would be unjust to say that selfishness was the only source of his political
ideas.  He was greatly impressed by the necessity of yielding to the South in order to save
the Union, and had shown this by his utterances and votes in Congress: the South, therefore,
accepted him against General Scott, who was supposed to have moderate anti- slavery views.

General Pierce was elected; the policy of his administration became more and more deeply pro-slavery;
and now appeared upon the scene Stephen Arnold Douglas-- senator from Illinois, a man of remarkable
ability,--a brilliant thinker and most effective speaker, with an extraordinary power of swaying
men.  I heard him at vari- ous times; and even after he had committed what seemed to me the
unpardonable sin, it was hard to resist his eloquence.  He it was who, doubtless from a mixture
of motives, personal and public, had proposed the abolition of the Missouri Compromise, which
since the year 1820 had been the bulwark of the new territories against the encroachments of
slavery.  The whole anti-slavery sentiment of the North was thereby intensified, and as the
establishment of north polarity at one end of the magnet excites south polarity at the other,
so Southern feeling in favor of slavery was thereby increased.  Up to a recent period Southern
leaders had, as a rule, deprecated slavery, and hoped for its abolition; now they as generally
advocated it as good in itself;--the main foundation of civil liberty; the normal condition
of the working classes of every nation; and some of them urged the revival of the African slave-trade.
The struggle became more and more bitter.  I was during that time at Yale, and the general
sentiment of that university in those days favored almost any concession to save the Union.
The venerable Silliman, and a great majority of the older professors spoke at public meetings
in favor of the pro-slavery compromise measures which they fondly hoped would settle the difficulty
between North and South and re<e:>stablish the Union on firm foundations.  The new compromise
was indeed a bitter dose for them, since it contained the fugitive slave law in its most drastic
form; and every one of them, with the exception of a few theological doctrinaires who found
slavery in the Bible, abhorred the whole slave system.  The Yale faculty, as a rule, took ground
against anti-slavery effort, and, among other ways of propagating what they considered right
opinions, there was freely distributed among the students a sermon by the Rev. Dr. Boardman
of Philadelphia, which went to extremes in advocating compromise with slavery and the slave power.

The great body of the students, also, from North and South, took the same side.  It is a suggestive
fact that whereas European students are generally inclined to radicalism, American students
have been, since the war of the Revolution, eminently conservative.

To this pro-slavery tendency at Yale, in hope of saving the Union, there were two remarkable
exceptions, one being the beloved and respected president of the university, Dr. Theodore Dwight
Woolsey, and the other his classmate and friend, the Rev. Dr. Leonard Bacon, pastor of the
great Center Church of New Haven, and frequently spoken of as the ``Congregational Pope of
New England.''  They were indeed a remarkable pair; Woolsey, quiet and scholarly, at times
irascible, but always kind and just; Bacon a rugged, leonine sort of man who, when he shook
his mane in the pulpit and addressed the New England conscience, was heard throughout the nation.
These two, especially, braved public sentiment, as well as the opinion of their colleagues,
and were supposed, at the time, to endanger the interests of Yale by standing against the fugitive
slave law and other concessions to slavery and its extension.  As a result Yale fell into disrepute
in the South, which had, up to that time, sent large bodies of students to it, and I remember
that a classmate of mine, a tall, harum-scarum, big-hearted, sandy-haired Georgian known as
``Jim'' Hamilton, left Yale in disgust, returned to his native heath, and was there welcomed
with great jubilation.  A poem was sent me, written by some ardent admirer of his, beginning
with the words:

     ``God bless thee, noble Hamilton,'' &c.

On the other hand I was one of the small minority of students who remained uncompromisingly
anti-slavery, and whenever I returned from Syracuse, my classmates and friends used to greet
me in a jolly way by asking me ``How are you, Gerrit; how did you leave the Rev. Antoinette
Brown and brother Fred Douglas?''  In consequence I came very near being, in a small way, a
martyr to my principles.  Having had some success in winning essay prizes during my sophomore
and junior years, my name was naturally mentioned in connection with the election of editors
for the ``Yale Literary Magazine.''  At this a very considerable body of Southern students
and their Northern adherents declared against me.  I neither said nor did anything in the premises,
but two of my most conservative friends wrought valiantly in my behalf.  One was my dear old
chum, Davies, the present Bishop of Michigan, at the very antipodes from myself on every possible
question; and the other my life-long friend, Randall Lee Gibson of Kentucky, himself a large
slaveholder, afterward a general in the Confederate service, and finally, at his lamented death
a few years since, United States senator from Louisiana.  Both these friends championed my
cause, with the result that they saved me by a small majority.

As editor of the ``Yale Literary Magazine,'' through my senior year, I could publish nothing
in behalf of my cherished anti-slavery ideas, since a decided majority of my fellow-editors
would have certainly refused admission to any obnoxious article, and I therefore confined myself,
in my editorial capacity, to literary and abstract matters; but with my college exercises it
was different.  Professor Larned, who was charged with the criticism of our essays and speeches,
though a very quiet man, was at heart deeply anti-slavery, and therefore it was that in sundry
class-room essays, as well as in speeches at the junior exhibition and at commencement, I was
able to pour forth my ideas against what was stigmatized as the ``sum of human villainies.''

I was not free from temptation to an opposite course.  My experience at the college election
had more than once suggested to my mind the idea that possibly I might be wrong, after all;
that perhaps the voice of the people was really the voice of God; that if one wishes to accomplish
anything he must work in harmony with the popular will; and that perhaps the best way would
be to conform to the general opinion.  To do so seemed, certainly, the only road to preferment
of any kind.  Such were the temptations which, in those days, beset every young man who dreamed
of accomplishing something in life, and they beset me in my turn; but there came a day when
I dealt with them decisively.  I had come up across New Haven Green thinking them over, and
perhaps paltering rather contemptibly with my conscience; but arriving at the door of North
College, I stopped a moment, ran through the whole subject in an instant, and then and there,
on the stairway leading to my room, silently vowed that, come what might, I would never be
an apologist for slavery or for its extension, and that what little I could do against both
should be done.

I may add that my conscience was somewhat aided by a piece of casuistry from the most brilliant
scholar in the Yale faculty of that time, Professor James Hadley.  I had been brought up with
a strong conviction of the necessity of obedience to law as the first requirement in any State,
and especially in a Republic; but here was the fugitive slave law.  What was our duty regarding
it?  This question having come up in one of our division- room debates, Professor Hadley, presiding,
gave a decision to the following effect:  ``On the statute books of all countries are many
laws, obsolete and obsolescent; to disobey an obsolete law is frequently a necessity and never
a crime.  As to disobedience to an obsolescent law, the question in every man's mind must be
as to the degree of its obsolescence.  Laws are made obsolescent by change of circumstances,
by the growth of convictions which render their execution impossible, and the like.  Every
man, therefore, must solemnly decide for himself at what period a law is virtually obsolete.''

I must confess that the doctrine seems to me now rather dangerous, but at that time I welcomed
it as a very serviceable piece of casuistry, and felt that there was indeed, as Mr. Seward
had declared, a ``higher law'' than the iniquitous enactment which allowed the taking of a
peaceful citizen back into slavery, without any of the safeguards which had been developed
under Anglo-Saxon liberty.

Though my political feelings throughout the senior year grew more and more intense, there was
no chance for their expression either in competition for the Clarke Essay Prize or for the
De Forest Oration Gold Medal, the subjects of both being assigned by the faculty; and though
I afterward had the satisfaction of taking both these, my exultation was greatly alloyed by
the thought that the ideas I most cherished could find little, if any, expression in them.

But on Commencement Day my chance came.  Then I chose my own theme, and on the subject of ``Modern
Oracles'' poured forth my views to a church full of people; many evidently disgusted, but a
few as evidently pleased.  I dwelt especially upon sundry utterances of John Quincy Adams,
who had died not long before, and who had been, during all his later years, a most earnest
opponent of slavery, and I argued that these, with the declarations of other statesmen of like
tendencies, were the oracles to which the nation should listen.

Curiously enough this commencement speech secured for me the friendship of a man who was opposed
to my ideas, but seemed to like my presenting them then and there--the governor of the State,
Colonel Thomas Seymour.  He had served with distinction in the Mexican War, had been elected
and re<e:>lected, again and again, governor of Connecticut, was devotedly pro-slavery, in the
interest, as he thought, of preserving the Union; but he remembered my speech, and afterward,
when he was made minister to Russia, invited me to go with him, attached me to his Legation,
and became one of the dearest friends I have ever had.

Of the diplomatic phase of my life into which he initiated me, I shall speak in another chapter;
but, as regards my political life, he influenced me decidedly, for his conversation and the
reading he suggested led me to study closely the writings of Jefferson.  The impulse thus given
my mind was not spent until the Civil War, which, betraying the ultimate results of sundry
Jeffersonian ideas, led me to revise my opinions somewhat and to moderate my admiration for
the founder of American ``Democracy,'' though I have ever since retained a strong interest
in his teaching.

But deeply as both the governor and myself felt on the slavery question, we both avoided it
in our conversation.  Each knew how earnestly the other felt regarding it, and each, as if
by instinct, kept clear of a discussion which could not change our opinions, and might wreck
our friendship.  The result was, that, so far as I remember, we never even alluded to it during
the whole year we were together.  Every other subject we discussed freely but this we never
touched.  The nearest approach to a discussion was when one day in the Legation Chancery at
St. Petersburg, Mr. Erving, also a devoted Union pro- slavery Democrat, pointing to a map of
the United States hanging on the wall, went into a rhapsody over the extension of the power
and wealth of our country.  I answered, ``If our country could get rid of slavery in all that
beautiful region of the South, such a riddance would be cheap at the cost of fifty thousand
lives and a hundred millions of dollars.''  At this Erving burst forth into a torrent of brotherly
anger.  ``There was no conceivable cause,'' he said, ``worth the sacrifice of fifty thousand
lives, and the loss of a hundred millions of dollars would mean the blotting out of the whole
prosperity of the nation.''  His deep earnestness showed me the impossibility of converting
a man of his opinions, and the danger of wrecking our friendship by attempting it.  Little
did either of us dream that within ten years from that day slavery was to be abolished in the
United States, at the sacrifice not of fifty thousand, but of nearly a million lives, and at
the cost not merely of a hundred millions, but, when all is told, of at least ten thousand
millions of dollars!

I may mention here that it was in this companionship, at St. Petersburg, that I began to learn
why newspaper criticism has, in our country, so little permanent effect on the reputation of
eminent men.  During four years before coming abroad I had read, in leading Republican journals
of New York and New Haven, denunciations of Governor Thomas Hart Seymour as an ignoramus, a
pretender, a blatant demagogue, a sot and companion of sots, an associate, and fit associate,
for the most worthless of the populace.  I had now found him a man of real convictions, thoroughly
a gentleman, quiet, conscientious, kindly, studious, thoughtful, modest, abstemious, hardly
ever touching a glass of wine, a man esteemed and beloved by all who really knew him.  Thus
was first revealed to me what, in my opinion, is the worst evil in American public life,--that
facility for unlimited slander, of which the first result is to degrade our public men, and
the second result is to rob the press of that confidence among thinking people, and that power
for good and against evil which it really ought to exercise.  Since that time I have seen many
other examples strengthening the same conviction.

Leaving St. Petersburg, I followed historical and, to some extent, political studies at the
University of Berlin, having previously given attention to them in France; and finally, traveling
in Italy, became acquainted with a man who made a strong impression upon me.  This was Mr.
Robert Dale Owen, then the American minister at Naples, whose pictures of Neapolitan despotism,
as it then existed, made me even a stronger Republican than I had been before.

Returning to America I found myself on the eve of the new presidential election.  The Republicans
had nominated John C. Fr<e'>mont, of whom all I knew was gathered from his books of travel.
The Democrats had nominated James Buchanan, whom I, as an attach<e'> of the legation at St.
Petersburg, had met while he was minister of the United States at London.  He was a most kindly
and impressive old gentleman, had welcomed me cordially at his legation, and at a large dinner
given by Mr. George Peabody, at that time the American Amphitryon in the British metropolis,
discussed current questions in a way that fascinated me.  Of that I may speak in another chapter;
suffice it here that he was one of the most attractive men in conversation I have ever met,
and that is saying much.

I took but slight part in the campaign; in fact, a natural diffidence kept me aloof from active
politics.  Having given up all hope or desire for political preferment, and chosen a university
career, I merely published a few newspaper and magazine articles, in the general interest of
anti- slavery ideas, but made no speeches, feeling myself, in fact, unfit to make them.

But I shared more and more the feelings of those who supported Fr<e'>mont.

Mr. Buchanan, though personal acquaintance had taught me to like him as a man, and the reading
of his despatches in the archives of our legation at St. Petersburg had forced me to respect
him as a statesman, represented to me the encroachments and domination of American slavery,
while Fr<e'>mont represented resistance to such encroachments, and the perpetuity of freedom
upon the American Continent.

On election day, 1856, I went to the polls at the City Hall of Syracuse to cast my first vote.
There I chanced to meet an old schoolmate who had become a brilliant young lawyer, Victor Gardner,
with whom, in the old days, I had often discussed political questions, he being a Democrat
and I a Republican.  But he had now come upon new ground, and, wishing me to do the same, he
tendered me what was known as ``The American Ticket,'' bearing at its head the name of Millard
Fillmore.  He claimed that it represented resistance to the encroachments and dangers which
he saw in the enormous foreign immigration of the period, and above all in the increasing despotism
of the Roman Catholic hierarchy controlling the Irish vote.  Most eloquently did my old friend
discourse on the dangers from this source.  He insisted that Roman Catholic bishops and priests
had wrecked every country in which they had ever gained control; that they had aided in turning
the mediaeval republics into despotisms; that they had ruined Spain and the South American
republics; that they had rendered Poland and Ireland unable to resist oppression; that they
had hopelessly enfeebled Austria and Italy; that by St. Bartholomew massacres and clearing
out of Huguenots they had made, first, terrorism, and, finally, despotism necessary in France;
that they had rendered every people they had controlled careless of truth and inclined to despotism,--either
of monarchs or ``bosses'';--that our prisons were filled with the youth whom they had trained
in religion and morals; that they were ready to ravage the world with fire and sword to gain
the slightest point for the Papacy; that they were the sworn foes of our public- school system,
without which no such thing as republican government could exist among us; that, in fact, their
bishops and priests were the enemies of everything we Americans should hold dear, and that
their church was not so much a religious organization as a political conspiracy against the
best that mankind had achieved.

``Look at the Italians, Spanish, French to-day, ``he said.  ``The Church has had them under
its complete control fifteen hundred years, and you see the result.  Look at the Irish all
about us;--always screaming for liberty, yet the most abject slaves of their passions and of
their priesthood.''

He spoke with the deepest earnestness and even eloquence; others gathered round, and some took
his tickets.  I refused them, saying, ``No.  The question of all questions to me is whether
slavery or freedom is to rule this Republic,'' and, having taken a Republican ticket, I went
up-stairs to the polls.  On my arrival at the ballot-box came a most exasperating thing.  A
drunken Irish Democrat standing there challenged my vote.  He had, perhaps, not been in the
country six months; I had lived in that very ward since my childhood, knew and was known by
every other person present; and such was my disgust that it is not at all unlikely that if
one of Gardner's tickets had been in my pocket, it would have gone into the ballot-box.  But
persons standing by,--Democrats as well as Republicans,--having quieted this perfervid  patriot,
and saved me from the ignominy of swearing in my vote, I carried out my original intention,
and cast my first vote for the Republican candidate.

Certainly Providence was kind to the United States in that contest.  For Fr<e'>mont was not
elected.  Looking back over the history of the United States I see, thus far, no instant when
everything we hold dear was so much in peril as on that election day.

We of the Republican party were fearfully mistaken, and among many evidences in history that
there is ``a Power in the universe, not ourselves, which makes for righteousness,'' I think
that the non-election of Fr<e'>mont is one of the most convincing.  His election would have
precipitated the contest brought on four years later by the election of Lincoln.  But the Northern
States had in 1856 no such preponderance as they had four years later.  No series of events
had then occurred to arouse and consolidate anti-slavery feeling like those between 1856 and
1860.  Moreover, of all candidates for the Presidency ever formally nominated by either of
the great parties up to that time, Fr<e'>mont was probably the most unfit.  He had gained credit
for his expedition across the plains to California, and deservedly; his popular name of ``Pathfinder''
might have been of some little use in a political campaign, and some romantic interest attached
to him on account of his marriage with Jessie Benton, daughter of the burly, doughty, honest-purposed,
headstrong senator from Missouri.  But his earlier career, when closely examined, and, even
more than that, his later career, during the Civil War, showed doubtful fitness for any duties
demanding clear purpose, consecutive thought, adhesion to a broad policy, wisdom in counsel,
or steadiness in action.  Had he been elected in 1856 one of two things would  undoubtedly
have followed: either the Union would have been permanently dissolved, or it would have been
reestablished by anchoring slavery forever in the  Constitution. Never was there a greater escape.

On March 1, 1857, I visited Washington for the first time.  It was indeed the first time I
had ever trodden the soil of a slave State, and, going through Baltimore, a sense of this gave
me a feeling of horror.  The whole atmosphere of that city seemed gloomy, and the city of Washington
no better.  Our little company established itself at the National Hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue,
then a famous hostelry.  Henry Clay had died there not long before, and various eminent statesmen
had made it, and were then making it, their headquarters.

On the evening of my arrival a curious occurrence showed me the difference between Northern
and Southern civilization.  As I sat in the reading-room, there rattled upon my ear utterances
betokening a vigorous dispute in the adjoining bar-room, and, as they were loud and long, I
rose and walked toward the disputants, as men are wont to do on such occasions in the North;
when, to my surprise I found that, though the voices were growing steadily louder, people were
very generally leaving the room; presently, the reason dawned upon me: it was a case in which
revolvers might be drawn at any moment, and the bystanders evidently thought life and limb
more valuable than any information they were likely to obtain by remaining.

On the evening of the third of March I went with the crowd to the White House.  We were marshalled
through the halls, President Pierce standing in the small chamber adjoining the East Room to
receive the guests, around him being members of the Cabinet, with others distinguished in the
civil, military, and naval service, and, among them, especially prominent, Senator Douglas,
then at the height of his career.  Persons in the procession were formally presented, receiving
a kindly handshake, and then allowed to pass on.  My abhorrence of the Presi- dent and of Douglas
was so bitter that I did a thing for which the only excuse was my youth:--I held my right hand
by my side, walked by and refused to be presented.

Next morning I was in the crowd at the east front of the Capitol, and, at the time appointed,
Mr. Buchanan came forth and took the oath administered to him by the Chief Justice, Roger Brooke
Taney of Maryland.  Though Taney was very decrepit and feeble, I looked at him much as a Spanish
Protestant in the sixteenth century would have looked at Torquemada; for, as Chief Justice,
he was understood to be in the forefront of those who would fasten African slavery on the whole
country; and this view of him seemed justified when, two days after the inauguration, he gave
forth the Dred Scott decision, which interpreted the Constitution in accordance with the ultra
pro-slavery theory of Calhoun.

Having taken the oath, Mr. Buchanan delivered the inaugural address, and it made a deep impression
upon me.  I began to suspect then, and I fully believe now, that he was sincere, as, indeed,
were most of those whom men of my way of thinking in those days attacked as pro-slavery tools
and ridiculed as ``doughfaces.''  We who had lived remote from the scene of action, and apart
from pressing responsibility, had not realized the danger of civil war and disunion.  Mr. Buchanan,
and men like him, in Congress, constantly associating with Southern men, realized both these
dangers.  They honestly and patriotically shrank from this horrible prospect; and so, had we
realized what was to come, would most of us have done.  I did not see this then, but looking
back across the abyss of years I distinctly see it now.  The leaders on both sides were honest
and patriotic, and, as I firmly believe, instruments of that ``Power in the universe, not ourselves,
which makes for righteousness.''

There was in Mr. Buchanan's inaugural address a tone of deep earnestness.  He declared that
all his efforts should be given to restore the Union, and to re<e:>stablish it upon permanent
foundations; besought his fellow-citizens throughout the Union to second him in this effort,
and promised that under no circumstances would he be a candidate for re<e:>lection.  My anti-slavery
feelings remained as deep as ever, but, hearing this speech, there came into my mind an inkling
of the truth:  ``Hinter dem Berge sind auch Leute.''

During my stay in Washington I several times visited the Senate and the House, in the old quarters
which they shortly afterward vacated in order to enter the more commodious rooms of the Capitol,
then nearly finished.  The Senate was in the room at present occupied by the Supreme Court,
and from the gallery I looked down upon it with mingled feelings of awe, distrust, and aversion.
There, as its president, sat Mason of Virginia, author of the fugitive slave law; there, at
the desk in front of him, sat Cass of Michigan, who, for years, had been especially subservient
to the slave power; Douglas of Illinois, who had brought about the destruction of the Missouri
Compromise; Butler of South Carolina, who represented in perfection the slave-owning aristocracy;
Slidell and Benjamin of Louisiana, destined soon to play leading parts in the disruption of
the Union.

But there were others.  There was Seward, of my own State, whom I had been brought up to revere,
and who seemed to me, in the struggle then going on, the incarnation of righteousness; there
was Charles Sumner of Massachusetts, just recovering from the murderous blows given him by
Preston Brooks of South Carolina, --a martyr, as I held, to his devotion to freedom; there
was John Parker Hale of New Hampshire, who had been virtually threatened with murder, as a
penalty for his opposition to slavery; and there was bluff Ben Wade of Ohio, whose courage
strengthened the whole North.

The House of Representatives interested me less.  In it there sat various men now mainly passed
out of human memory; and, unfortunately, the hall, though one of the finest, architecturally,
in the world, was one of the least suited to its purpose.  To hear anything either in the galleries
or on the floor was almost an impossibility.

The Supreme Court, though sitting in a wretched room in the basement, made a far deeper impression
upon me.  The judges, seated in a row, and wearing their simple, silken gowns, seemed to me,
in their quiet dignity, what the highest court of a great republic ought to be; though I looked
at Chief Justice Taney and his pro-slavery associates much as a Hindoo regards his destructive
gods.

The general impression made upon me at Washington was discouraging.  It drove out from my mind
the last lingering desire to take any part in politics.  The whole life there was repulsive
to me, and when I reflected that a stay of a few years in that forlorn, decaying, reeking city
was the goal of political ambition, the whole thing seemed to me utterly worthless.  The whole
life there bore the impress of the slipshod habits engendered by slavery, and it seemed a civilization
rotting before ripeness.  The city was certainly, at that time, the most wretched capital in
Christendom.  Pennsylvania Avenue was a sort of Slough of Despond,--with ruts and mud- holes
from the unfinished Capitol, at one end, to the unfinished Treasury building, at the other,
and bounded on both sides with cheap brick tenements.  The extensive new residence quarter
and better hotels of these days had not been dreamed of.  The ``National,'' where we were living,
was esteemed the best hotel, and it was abominable.  Just before we arrived, what was known
as the ``National Hotel Disease'' had broken out in it;-- by some imputed to an attempt to
poison the incoming President, in order to bring the Vice-President into his place.  But that
was the mere wild surmise of a political pessimist.  The fact clearly was that the wretched
sewage of Washington, in those days, which was betrayed in all parts of the hotel by every
kind of noisome odor, had at last begun to do its work.  Curiously enough there was an interregnum
in the reign of sickness and death, probably owing to some temporary sanitary efforts, and
that interregnum, fortunately for us, was coincident with our stay there.  But the disease
set in again shortly afterward, and a college friend of mine, who arrived on the day of our
departure, was detained in the hotel for many weeks with the fever then contracted.  The number
of deaths was considerable, but, in the interest of the hotel, the matter was hushed up, as
far as possible.

The following autumn I returned to New Haven as a resident graduate, and, the popular lecture
system being then at its height, was invited to become one of the lecturers in the course of
that winter.  I prepared my discourse with great care, basing it upon studies and observations
during my recent stay in the land of the Czar, and gave it the title of ``Civilization in Russia.''

I remember feeling greatly honored by the fact that my predecessor in the course was Theodore
Parker, and my successor Ralph Waldo Emerson.  Both talked with me much about my subject, and
Parker surprised me.  He was the nearest approach to omniscience I had ever seen.  He was able
to read, not only Russian, but the Old Slavonic.  He discussed the most intimate details of
things in Russia, until, at last, I said to him, ``Mr. Parker, I would much rather sit at your
feet and listen to your information regarding Russia, than endeavor to give you any of my own.''
He was especially interested in the ethnology of the empire, and had an immense knowledge of
the different peoples inhabiting it, and of their characteristics.  Finally, he asked me what
chance I thought there was for the growth of anything like free institutions in Russia.  To
this I answered that the best thing they had was their system of local peasant meetings for
the repartition of their lands, and for the discussion of subjects connected with them, and
that this seemed to me something like a germ of what might, in future generations, become a
sort of town-meeting system, like that of New England.  This let me out of the discussion very
satisfactorily, for Parker told me that he had arrived at the same conclusion, after talking
with Count Gurowski, who was, in those days, an especial authority.

In due time came the evening for my lecture.  As it was the first occasion since leaving college
that I had appeared on any stage, a considerable number of my old college associates and friends,
including Professor (afterward President) Porter, Dr. Bacon, and Mr. (afterward Bishop) Littlejohn,
were there among the foremost, and after I had finished they said some kindly things, which
encouraged me.

In this lecture I made no mention of American slavery, but into an account of the events of
my stay at St. Petersburg and Moscow during the Crimean War, and of the death and funeral of
the Emperor Nicholas, with the accession and first public address of Alexander II, I sketched,
in broad strokes, the effects of the serf system,--effects not merely upon the serfs, but upon
the serf owners, and upon the whole condition of the empire.  I made it black indeed, as it
deserved, and though not a word was said regarding things in America, every thoughtful man
present must have felt that it was the strongest indictment against our own system of slavery
which my powers enabled me to make.

Next day came a curious episode.  A classmate of mine, never distinguished for logical acuteness,
came out in a leading daily paper with a violent attack upon me and my lecture.  He lamented
the fact that one who, as he said, had, while in college, shown much devotion to the anti-
slavery cause, had now faced about, had no longer the courage of his opinions, and had not
dared say a word against slavery in the United States.  The article was laughable.  It would
have been easy to attack slavery and thus at once shut the minds and hearts of a large majority
of the audience.  But I felt then, as I have generally felt since, that the first and best
thing to do is to SET PEOPLE AT THINKING, and to let them discover, or think that they discover,
the truth for themselves.  I made no reply, but an eminent clergyman of New Haven took up the
cudgels in my favor, covered my opponent with ridicule, and did me the honor to declare that
my lecture was one of the most effective anti-slavery arguments ever made in that city.  With
this, I retired from the field well satisfied.

The lecture was asked for in various parts of the country, was delivered at various colleges
and universities, and in many cities of western New York, Michigan, and Ohio; and finally,
after the emancipation of the serfs, was re- cast and republished in the ``Atlantic Monthly''
under the title of ``The Rise and Decline of the Serf System in Russia.''

And now occurred a great change in my career which, as I fully believed, was to cut me off
from all political life thoroughly and permanently.  This was my election to the professorship
of history and English literature in the University of Michigan.

CHAPTER V

THE CIVIL WAR PERIOD--1857-1864

Arriving at the University of Michigan in October, 1857, I threw myself into my new work most
heartily.  Though I felt deeply the importance of the questions then before the country, it
seemed to me that the only way in which I could contribute anything to their solution was in
aiding to train up a new race of young men who should understand our own time and its problems
in the light of history.

It was not difficult to point out many things in the past that had an important bearing upon
the present, and my main work in this line was done in my lecture-room.  I made no attempts
to proselyte any of my hearers to either political party, my main aim being then, as it has
been through my life, when dealing with students and the public at large, to set my audience
or my readers at thinking, and to give them fruitful historical subjects to think upon.  Among
these subjects especially brought out in dealing with the middle ages, was the origin, growth,
and decline of feudalism, and especially of the serf system, and of municipal liberties as
connected with it.  This, of course, had a general bearing upon the important problem we had
to solve in the United States during the second half of that century.

In my lectures on modern history, and especially on the Reformation period, and the events
which led to the French Revolution, there were various things throwing light upon our own problems,
which served my purpose of arousing thought.  My audiences were large and attentive, and I
have never, in the whole course of my life, enjoyed any work so much as this, which brought
me into hearty and close relations with a large body of active- minded students from all parts
of our country, and especially from the Northwest.  More and more I realized the justice of
President Wayland's remark, which had so impressed me at the Yale Alumni meeting just after
my return from Europe: that the nation was approaching a ``switching-off place''; that whether
we were to turn toward evil or good in our politics would be decided by the great Northwest,
and that it would be well for young Americans to cast in their lot with that part of the country.

In the intervals of my university work many invitations came to me from associations in various
parts of Michigan and neighboring States to lecture before them, and these I was glad to accept.
Such lectures were of a much more general character than those given in the university, but
by them I sought to bring the people at large into trains of thought which would fit them to
grapple with the great question which was rising more and more portentously before us.

Having accepted, in one of my vacations, an invitation to deliver the Phi Beta Kappa Commencement
Address at Yale, I laid down as my thesis, and argued it from history, that in all republics,
ancient or modern, the worst foe of freedom had been a man-owning aristocracy--an aristocracy
based upon slavery.  The address was circulated in printed form, was considerably discussed,
and, I trust, helped to set some few people thinking.

For the same purpose I also threw some of my lectures into the form of magazine articles for
the ``Atlantic Monthly,'' and especially one entitled ``The Statesmanship of Richelieu,'' my
effort in this being to show that the one great error of that greatest of all French statesmen
was in stopping short of rooting out the serf system in France when he had completely subjugated
the serf owners and had them at his mercy.

As the year 1860 approached, the political struggle became more and more bitter.  President
Buchanan in  redeeming his promise to maintain the Union had gone to lengths which startled
and disappointed many of his most devoted supporters.  Civil war had broken out in Kansas and
Nebraska, with murder and massacre: desperate attempts were made to fasten the hold of the
pro-slavery party permanently upon the State, and as desperately were these efforts repelled.
A certain John Brown, who requited assassination of free-state men by the assassination of
slave-state men,--a very ominous appearance,--began to be heard of; men like Professor Silliman,
who, during my stay at Yale had spoken at Union meetings in favor of the new compromise measures,
even including the fugitive slave law, now spoke publicly in favor of sending rifles to the
free-state men in Kansas; and, most striking symptom of all, Stephen A. Douglas himself, who
had led the Democratic party in breaking the Missouri Compromise, now recoiled from the ultra
pro-slavery propaganda of President Buchanan.  Then, too, came a new incitement to bitterness
between North and South.  John Brown, the man of Scotch-Covenanter type, who had imbibed his
theories of political methods from the Old-Testament annals of Jewish dealings with the heathen,
and who had in Kansas solemnly slaughtered in cold blood, as a sort of sacrifice before the
Lord, sundry Missouri marauders who had assassinated free-state men, suddenly appeared in Virginia,
and there, at Harper's Ferry, with a handful of fanatics subject to his powerful will, raised
the standard of revolution against the slave-power.  Of course he was easily beaten down, his
forces scattered, those dearest to him shot, and he himself hanged.  But he was a character
of antique mold, and this desperate effort followed by his death, while it exasperated the
South, stirred the North to its depths.

Like all such efforts, it was really mistaken and unfortunate.  It helped to obscure Henry
Clay's proposal to extinguish slavery peaceably, and made the solution of the problem by bloodshed
more and more certain.  And in the execution of John Brown was lost a man who, had he lived
until the Civil War, might have rendered enormous services as a partizan leader.  Of course,
his action aroused much thought among my students, and their ideas came out in their public
discussions.  It was part of my duty, once or twice a week, to preside over these discussions,
and to decide between the views presented.  In these decisions on the political questions now
arising I became deeply interested, and while I was careful not to give them a partizan character,
they were, of course, opposed to the dominance of slavery.

In the spring of 1860, the Republican National Convention was held at Chicago, and one fine
morning I went to the railway station to greet the New York delegation on its way thither.
Among the delegates whom I especially recall were William M. Evarts, under whose Secretaryship
of State I afterward served as minister at Berlin, and my old college friend, Stewart L. Woodford,
with whom I was later in close relations during his term as lieutenant-governor of New York
and minister to Spain.  The candidate of these New York delegates was of course Mr. Seward,
and my most devout hopes were with him, but a few days later came news that the nomination
had been awarded to Mr. Lincoln.  Him we had come to know and admire during his debates with
Douglas while the senatorial contest was going on in the State of Illinois; still the defeat
of Mr. Seward was a great disappointment, and hardly less so in Michigan than in New York.
In the political campaign which followed I took no direct part, though especially aroused by
the speeches of a new man who had just appeared above the horizon,--Carl Schurz.  His arguments
seemed to me by far the best of that whole campaign--the broadest, the deepest, and the most
convincing.

My dear and honored father, during the months of July, August, and the first days of September,
was slowly fading away on his death-bed.  Yet he was none the less interested in the question
at issue, and every day I sat by his bedside and read to him the literature bearing upon the
contest; but of all the speeches he best liked those of this new orator--he preferred them,
indeed, to those of his idol Seward.

I have related in another place how, years afterward, Bismarck asked me, in Berlin, to what
Carl Schurz's great success in America was due, and my answer to this question.

Mr. Lincoln having been elected, I went on with my duties as before, but the struggle was rapidly
deepening.  Soon came premonitions of real conflict, and, early in the following spring, civil
war was upon us.  My teaching went on, as of old, but it became more direct.  In order to show
what the maintenance of a republic was worth, and what patriots had been willing to do for
their country in a struggle not unlike ours, I advised my students to read Motley's ``History
of the Dutch Republic,'' and I still think it was good advice.  Other works, of a similar character,
showing how free peoples have conducted long and desperate wars for the maintenance of their
national existence and of liberty, I also recommended, and with good effect.

Reverses came.  During part of my vacation, in the summer of 1861, I was at Syracuse, and had,
as my guest, Mr. George Sumner, younger brother of the eminent senator from Massachusetts,
a man who had seen much of the world, had written magazine articles and reviews which had done
him credit, and whose popular lectures were widely esteemed.  One Sunday afternoon in June
my uncle, Mr. Hamilton White, dropped in at my house to make a friendly call.  He had just
returned from Washington, where he had seen his old friend Seward, Mr. Lincoln's Secretary
of State, and felt able to give us a forecast of the future.  This uncle of mine was a thoughtful
man of affairs; successful in business, excellent in judgment, not at all prone to sanguine
or flighty views, and on our asking him how matters looked in Washington he said, ``Depend
upon it, it is all right:  Seward says that they have decided to end the trouble at once, even
if it is necessary to raise an army of fifty thousand men;--that they will send troops immediately
to Richmond and finish the whole thing at once, so that the country can go on quietly about
its business.''

There was, of course, something reassuring in so favorable a statement made by a sensible man
fresh from the most accredited sources, and yet I could not resist grave doubts.  Such historical
knowledge as I possessed taught me that a struggle like that just beginning between two great
principles, both of which had been gathering force for nearly a century, and each of which
had drawn to its support millions of devoted men, was not to be ended so easily; but I held
my peace.

Next day I took Mr. Sumner on an excursion up the beautiful Onondaga Valley.  As we drove through
the streets of Syracuse, noticing knots of men gathered here and there in discussion, and especially
at the doors of the news offices, we secured an afternoon newspaper and drove on, engaged in
earnest conversation.  It was a charming day, and as we came to the shade of some large trees
about two miles from the city we rested and I took out the paper.  It struck me like death.
There, displayed in all its horrors, was the first account of the Battle of Bull Run,-- which
had been fought the previous afternoon,--exactly at the time when my uncle was assuring us
that the United States Army was to march at once to Richmond and end the war.  The catastrophe
seemed fatal.  The plans of General McDowell had come utterly to nought; our army had been
scattered to the four winds; large numbers of persons, including sundry members of Congress
who had airily gone out with the army to ``see the fun,'' among them one from our own neighborhood,
Mr. Alfred Ely, of Rochester, had been captured and sent to Richmond, and the rebels were said
to be in full march on the National Capital.

Sumner was jubilant.  ``This,'' he said, ``will make the American people understand what they
have to do; this will stop talk such as your uncle gave us yesterday  afternoon.''  But to
me it was a fearful moment.  Sumner's remarks grated horribly upon my ears; true as his view
was, I could not yet accept it.

And now preparations for war, and, indeed, for repelling invasion, began in earnest.  My friends
all about me were volunteering, and I also volunteered, but was rejected with scorn; the examining
physician saying to me, ``You will be a burden upon the government in the first hospital you
reach; you have not the constitution to be of use in carrying a musket; your work must be of
a different sort.''

My work, then, through the summer was with those who sought to raise troops and to provide
equipments for them.  There was great need of this, and, in my opinion, the American people
have never appeared to better advantage than at that time, when they began to realize their
duty, and to set themselves at doing it.  In every city, village, and hamlet, men and women
took hold of the work, feeling that the war was their own personal business.  No other country
since the world began has ever seen a more noble outburst of patriotism or more efficient aid
by individuals to their government.  The National and State authorities of course did everything
in their power; but men and women did not wait for them.  With the exception of those whose
bitter partizanship led them to oppose the war in all its phases, men, women, and children
engaged heartily and efficiently in efforts to aid the Union in its struggle.

Various things showed the depths of this feeling.  I remember meeting one day, at that period,
a man who had risen by hard work from simple beginnings to the head of an immense business,
and had made himself a multi- millionaire.  He was a hard, determined, shrewd man of affairs,
the last man in the world to show anything like sentimentalism, and as he said something advising
an investment in the newly created National debt, I answered, ``You are not, then, one of those
who believe that our new debt will be repudiated?''  He answered:  ``Repudia- tion or no repudiation,
I am putting everything I can rake and scrape together into National bonds, to help this government
maintain itself; for, by G--d, if I am not to have any country, I don't want any money.'' 
It is to be hoped that this oath, bursting forth from a patriotic heart, was, like Uncle Toby's,
blotted out by the recording angel.  I have quoted it more than once to show how the average
American--though apparently a crude materialist-- is, at heart, a thorough idealist.

Returning to the University of Michigan at the close of the vacation, I found that many of
my students had enlisted, and that many more were preparing to do so.  With some it was hard
indeed.  I remember two especially, who had for years labored and saved to raise the money
which would enable them to take their university course; they had hesitated, for a time, to
enlist; but very early one morning I was called out of bed by a message from them, and, meeting
them, found them ready to leave for the army.  They could resist their patriotic convictions
no longer, and they had come to say good-bye to me.  They went into the war; they fought bravely
through the thickest of it; and though one was badly wounded, both lived to return, and are
to-day honored citizens.  With many others it was different; many, very many of them, alas,
were among the ``unreturning brave!'' and loveliest and noblest of all, my dear friend and
student, Frederick Arne, of Princeton, Illinois, killed in the battle of Shiloh, at the very
beginning of the war, when all was blackness and discouragement.  Another of my dearest students
at that time was Albert Nye.  Scholarly, eloquent, noble-hearted, with every gift to ensure
success in civil life, he went forth with the others, rose to be captain of a company, and
I think major of a regiment.  He sent me most kindly messages, and at one time a bowie-knife
captured from a rebel soldier.  But, alas! he was not to return.

I may remark, in passing, that while these young men from the universities, and a vast host
of others from different walks of life, were going forth to lay down their lives for their
country, the English press, almost without exception, from the ``Times'' down, was insisting
that we were fighting our battles with ``mercenaries.''

One way in which those of us who remained at the university helped the good cause was in promoting
the military drill of those who had determined to become soldiers.  It was very difficult to
secure the proper military instruction, but in Detroit I found a West Point graduate, engaged
him to come out a certain number of times every week to drill the students, and he cheered
us much by saying that he had never in his life seen soldiers so much in earnest, and so rapid
in making themselves masters of the drill and tactics.

One of my advisers at this period, and one of the noblest men I have ever met, was Lieutenant
Kirby Smith, a graduate of West Point, and a lieutenant in the army.  His father, after whom
he was named, had been killed at the Battle of Molino del Rey, in the Mexican War.  His uncle,
also known as Kirby Smith, was a general in the Confederate service.  His mother, one of the
dearest friends of my family, was a woman of extraordinary abilities, and of the noblest qualities.
Never have I known a young officer of more promise.  With him I discussed from time to time
the probabilities of the war.  He was full of devotion, quieted my fears, and strengthened
my hopes.  He, too, fought splendidly for his country, and like his father, laid down his life
for it.

The bitterest disappointment of that period, and I regret deeply to chronicle it, was the conduct
of the government and ruling classes in England.  In view of the fact that popular sentiment
in Great Britain, especially as voiced in its literature, in its press, and from its pulpit,
had been against slavery, I had never doubted that in this struggle, so evidently between slavery
and freedom, Great Britain would be unanimously on our side.  To my amazement signs soon began
to point in another direction.  More and more it became evident that British feeling was against
us.  To my students, who inquired how this could possibly be, I said, ``Wait till Lord John
Russell speaks.''  Lord John Russell spoke, and my heart sank within me.  He was the solemnly
constituted impostor whose criminal carelessness let out the Alabama to prey upon our commerce,
and who would have let out more cruisers had not Mr. Charles Francis Adams, the American minister,
brought him to reason.

Lord John Russell was noted for his coolness, but in this respect Mr. Adams was more than his
match.  In after years I remember a joke based upon this characteristic.  During a very hot
summer in Kansas, when the State was suffering with drought, some newspaper proposed, and the
press very generally acquiesced in the suggestion, that Mr. Charles Francis Adams should be
asked to take a tour through the State, in order, by his presence, to reduce its temperature.

When, therefore, Lord John Russell showed no signs of interfering with the sending forth of
English ships,-- English built, English equipped, and largely English manned,--against our
commerce, Mr. Adams, having summed up to his Lordship the conduct of the British Government
in the matter, closed in his most icy way with the words:  ``My lord, I need hardly remind
you that this is war.''

The result was, that tardily,--just in time to prevent war between the two nations,--orders
were given which prevented the passing out of more cruisers.

Goldwin Smith, who in the days of his professorship at Oxford, saw much of Lord John Russell,
once told me that his lordship always made upon him the impression of ``an eminent corn-doctor.''

During the following summer, that of 1863, being much broken down by overwork, and threatened,
as I supposed, with heart disease, which turned out to be the beginning of a troublesome dyspepsia,
I was strongly recommended by my physician to take a rapid run to Europe, and though very reluctant
to leave home, was at last persuaded to go to New York to take my passage.  Arrived there,
bad news still coming from the seat of war, I could not bring myself at the steamer office
to sign the necessary papers, finally refused, and having returned home, took part for the
first time in a political campaign as a speaker, going through central New York, and supporting
the Republican candidate against the Democratic.  The election seemed of vast importance. 
The Democrats had nominated for the governorship, Mr. Horatio Seymour, a man of the highest
personal character, and, so far as the usual duties of governor were concerned, admirable;
but he had been bitterly opposed to the war, and it seemed sure that his election would encourage
the South and make disunion certain; therefore it was that I threw myself into the campaign
with all my might, speaking night and day; but alas! the election went against us.

At the close of the campaign, my dyspepsia returning with renewed violence, I was thinking
what should be done, when I happened to meet my father's old friend, Mr. Thurlow Weed, a devoted
adherent of Mr. Seward through his whole career, and, at that moment, one of the main supports
of the Lincoln Administration.  It was upon the deck of a North River steamer, and on my mentioning
my dilemma he said:  ``You can just now do more for us abroad than at home.  You can work in
the same line with Archbishop Hughes, Bishop McIlvaine, and myself; everything that can be
done, in the shape of contributions to newspapers, or speeches, even to the most restricted
audiences abroad, will help us: the great thing is to gain time, increase the number of those
who oppose European intervention in our affairs, and procure takers for our new National bonds.''

The result was that I made a short visit to Europe, stopping first in London.  Political feeling
there was bitterly against us.  A handful of true men, John Bright and Goldwin Smith at the
head of them, were doing heroic work in our behalf, but the forces against them seemed overwhelming.
Drawing money one morning in one of the large banks of London, I happened to exhibit a few
of the new National greenback notes which had been recently issued by our Government.  The
moment the clerk saw them he called out loudly, ``Don't offer us any of those things; we don't
take them; they will never be good for anything.''  I was greatly vexed, of course, but there
was no help for it.  At another time I went into a famous book-shop near the Haymarket to purchase
a rare book which I had long coveted.  It was just after the Battle of Fredericksburg.  The
book-seller was chatting with a customer, and finally, with evident satisfaction, said to him:
``I see the Yankees have been beaten again.''  ``Yes,'' said the customer, ``and the papers
say that ten thousand of them have been killed.''  ``Good,'' said the shop-keeper, ``I wish
it had been twice as many.''  Of course it was impossible for me to make any purchase in that
place.

In order to ascertain public sentiment I visited certain ``discussion forums,'' as they are
called, frequented by contributors to the press and young lawyers from the Temple and Inns
of Court.  In those places there was, as a rule, a debate every night, and generally, in one
form or another, upon the struggle then going on in the United States.  There was, perhaps,
in all this a trifle too much of the Three Tailors of Tooley Street; still, excellent speeches
were frequently made, and there was a pleasure in doing my share in getting the company on
the right side.  On one occasion, after one of our worst reverses during the war, an orator,
with an Irish brogue, thickened by hot whisky, said, ``I hope that Republic of blackguards
is gone forever.''  But, afterward, on learning that an American was present, apologized to
me in a way effusive, laudatory, and even affectionate.

But my main work was given to preparing a pamphlet, in answer to the letters from America by
Dr. Russell, correspondent of the London ``Times.''  Though nominally on our side, he clearly
wrote his letters to suit the demands of the great journal which he served, and which was most
bitterly opposed to us.  Nothing could exceed its virulence against everything American.  Every
occurrence was placed in the worst light possible as regarded our interests, and even the telegraphic
despatches were manipulated so as to do our cause all the injury possible.  I therefore prepared,
with especial care, an answer to these letters of Dr. Russell, and published it in London.
Its fate was what might have been expected.  Some papers discussed it fairly, but, on the whole,
it was pooh-poohed, explained away, and finally buried under new masses of slander.  I did,
indeed, find a few friends of my country in Great Britain.  In Dublin I dined with Cairnes,
the political economist, who had earnestly written in behalf of the Union against the Confederates;
and in London, with Professor Carpenter, the eminent physiologist, who, being devoted to anti-slavery
ideas, was mildly favorable to the Union side.  But I remember him less on account of anything
he said relating to the struggle in America, than for a statement bearing upon the legitimacy
of the sovereign then ruling in France, who was at heart one of our most dangerous enemies.
Dr. Carpenter told me that some time previously he had been allowed by Nassau Senior, whose
published conversations with various men of importance throughout Europe had attracted much
attention, to look into some of the records which Mr. Senior had not thought it best to publish,
and that among them he had read the following:

``---- showed me to-day an autograph letter written by Louis Bonaparte, King of Holland, not
far from the time of the birth of his putative son, now Napoleon III.  One passage read as
follows:  `J'ai le malheur d'avoir pour femme une Messalene.  Elle a des amants partout, et
partout elle laise des enfants.' ''

I could not but think of this a few weeks later when I saw the emperor, who derived his title
to the throne of France from his nominal father, poor King Louis, but whose personal appearance,
like that of his brother, the Duc de Morny, was evidently not derived from any Bonaparte. 
All the J<e'>rome Napoleons I have ever seen, including old King J<e'>rome of Westphalia, and
Prince Na- poleon J<e'>rome, otherwise known as ``Plon-Plon,'' whom I saw during my student
life at Paris, and the eldest son of the latter, the present Bonaparte pretender to the Napoleonic
crown of France, whom I saw during my stay as minister at St. Petersburg, very strikingly resembled
the first Napoleon, though all were of much larger size.  But the Louis Napoleons, that is,
the emperor and his brother the Duc de Morny, had no single Napoleonic point in their features
or bearing.

I think that the most startling inspiration during my life was one morning when, on walking
through the Garden of the Tuileries, I saw, within twenty feet of me, at a window, in the old
palace, which afterward disappeared under the Commune, the emperor and his minister of finance,
Achille Fould, seated together, evidently in earnest discussion.  There was not at that time
any human being whom I so hated and abhorred as Napoleon III.  He had broken his oath and trodden
the French republic under his feet, he was aiding to keep down the aspirations of Italy, and
he was doing his best to bring on an intervention of Europe, in behalf of the Confederate States,
to dissolve our Union.  He was then the arbiter of Europe.  The world had not then discovered
him to be what Bismarck had already found him--``a great unrecognized incapacity,'' and, as
I looked up and distinctly saw him so near me, there flashed through my mind an understanding
of some of the great crimes of political history, such as I have never had before or since.[1]

[1] Since writing this I find in the Autobiography of W. J. Stillman that a similar feeling
once beset him on seeing this imperial malefactor,

In France there was very little to be done for our cause.  The great mass of Frenchmen were
either indifferent or opposed to us.  The only exception of importance was Laboulaye, professor
at the Coll<e!>ge de France, and his lecture-room was a center of good influences in favor
of the American cause; in the midst of that frivolous Napoleonic France he seemed by far ``the
noblest Roman of them all.''

The main effort in our behalf was made by Mr. John Bigelow, at that time consul-general, but
afterward minister of the United States,--to supply with arguments the very small number of
Frenchmen who were inclined to favor the Union cause, and this he did thoroughly well.

Somewhat later there came a piece of good fortune.  Having been sent by a physician to the
baths at Homburg, I found as our consul-general, at the neighboring city of Frankfort-on-the-Main,
William Walton Murphy of Michigan, a life-long supporter of Mr. Seward, a most devoted and
active American patriot;--a rough diamond; one of the most uncouth mortals that ever lived;
but big-hearted, shrewd, a general favorite, and prized even by those who smiled at his oddities.
He had labored hard to induce the Frankfort bankers to take our government bonds, and to recommend
them to their customers, and had at last been successful.  In order to gain and maintain this
success he had established in Frankfort a paper called ``L'Europe,'' for which he wrote and
urged others to write.  To this journal I became a contributor, and among my associates I especially
remember the Rev. Dr. John McClintock, formerly president of Dickinson College, and Dr. E.
H. Chapin, of New York, so eminent in those days as a preacher.  Under the influence of Mr.
Murphy, Frankfort- on-the-Main became, and has since remained, a center of American ideas.
Its leading journal was the only influential daily paper in Germany which stood by us during
our Spanish War.

I recall a story told me by Mr. Murphy at that period.  He had taken an American lady on a
business errand to the bank of Baron Rothschild, and, after their business was over, presented
her to the great banker.  It happened that the Confederate loan had been floated in Europe
by Baron Erlanger, also a Frankfort financial magnate, and by birth a Hebrew.  In the conversation
that ensued between this lady and Baron Rothschild, the latter said:  ``Madam, my sympathies
are entirely with your country; but is it not disheartening to think that there are men in
Europe who are lending their money and trying to induce others to lend it for the strengthening
of human slavery?  Madam, NONE BUT A CONVERTED JEW WOULD DO THAT.''

On the Fourth of July of that summer, Consul-General Murphy--always devising new means of upholding
the flag of his country--summoned Americans from every part of Europe to celebrate the anniversary
of our National Independence at Heidelberg, and at the dinner given at the Hotel Schreider
seventy-four guests assembled, including two or three professors from the university, as against
six guests from the Confederate States, who had held a celebration in the morning at the castle.
Mr. Murphy presided and made a speech which warmed the hearts of us all.  It was a thorough-going,
old-fashioned, Western Fourth of July oration.  I had jeered at Fourth of July orations all
my life, but there was something in this one which showed me that these discourses, so often
ridiculed, are not without their uses.  Certain it is that as the consul- general repeated
the phrases which had more than once rung through the Western clearings, in honor of the defenders
of our country, the divine inspiration of the Constitution, our invincibility in war and our
superiority in peace, all of us were encouraged and cheered most lustily.  Pleasing was it
to note various British tourists standing at the windows listening to the scream of the American
eagle and evidently wondering what it all meant.

Others of us spoke, and especially Dr. McClintock, one of the foremost thinkers, scholars,
and patriots that the Methodist Episcopal church has ever produced.  His speech was in a very
serious vein, and well it might be.  In the course of it he said:  ``According to the last
accounts General Lee and his forces are near the town where I live, and are marching directly
toward it.  It is absolutely certain that, if they reach it, they will burn my house and all
that it contains, but I have no fear; I believe that the Almighty is with us in this struggle,
and though we may suffer much before its close, the Union is to endure and slavery is to go
down before the forces of freedom.''  These words, coming from the heart of a strong man, made
a deep impression upon us all.

About two weeks later I left Frankfort for America, and at my parting from Consul-General Murphy
at the hotel, he said:  ``Let me go in the carriage with you; this is steamer-day and we shall
probably meet the vice-consul coming with the American mail.''  He got in, and we drove along
the Zeil together.  It was at the busiest time of the day, and we had just arrived at the point
in that main street of Frankfort where business was most active, when the vice-consul met us
and handed Mr. Murphy a newspaper.  The latter tore it open, read a few lines, and then instantly
jumped out into the middle of the street, waved his hat and began to shout.  The public in
general evidently thought him mad; a crowd assembled; but as soon as he could get his breath
he pointed out the headlines of the newspaper.  They indicated the victories of Gettysburg
and Vicksburg, and the ending of the war.  It was, indeed, a great moment for us all.

Arriving in America, I found that some friends had republished from the English edition my
letter to Dr. Russell, that it had been widely circulated, and that, at any rate, it had done
some good at home.

Shortly afterward, being on a visit to my old friend, James T. Fields of Boston, I received
a telegram from Syracuse as follows:  ``You are nominated to the State senate: come home and
see who your friends are.''  I have received, in the course of my life, many astonishing messages,
but this was the most unexpected of all.  I had not merely not been a candidate for any such
nomination, but had forgotten that any nomination was to be made; I had paid no attention to
the matter whatever; all my thoughts had been given to other subjects; but on returning to
Syracuse I found that a bitter contest having arisen between two of the regular candidates,
each representing a faction, the delegates had suddenly turned away from both and nominated
me.  My election followed and so began the most active phase of my political life.

CHAPTER VI

SENATORSHIP AT ALBANY--1864-1865

On the evening of New Year's Day, 1864, I arrived in Albany to begin my duties in the State
Senate, and certainly, from a practical point of view, no member of the legislature was more
poorly equipped.  I had, indeed, received a university education, such as it was, in those
days, at home and abroad, and had perhaps read more than most college-bred men of my age, but
all my education, study, and reading were remote from the duties now assigned me.  To history,
literature, and theoretical politics, I had given considerable attention, but as regarded the
actual necessities of the State of New York, the relations of the legislature to the boards
of supervisors of counties, to the municipal councils of cities, to the boards of education,
charity, and the like, indeed, to the whole system throughout the Commonwealth, and to the
modes of conducting public and private business, my ignorance was deplorable.  Many a time
have I envied some plain farmer his term in a board of supervisors, or some country schoolmaster
his relations to a board of education, or some alderman his experience in a common council,
or some pettifogger his acquaintance with justices' courts.  My knowledge of law and the making
of law was wretchedly deficient, and my ignorance of the practical administration of law was
disgraceful.  I had hardly ever been inside a court-house, and my main experience of legal
procedure was when one day I happened to step into court at Syracuse, and some old friends
of mine thought it a good joke to put a university professor as a talesman upon a jury in a
horse case.  Although pressed with business I did not flinch, but accepted the position, discharged
its duties, and learned more of legal procedure and of human nature in six hours than I had
ever before learned in six months.  Ever afterward I advised my students to get themselves
drawn upon a petit jury.  I had read some Blackstone and some Kent and had heard a few law
lectures, but my knowledge was purely theoretical: in constitutional law it was derived from
reading scattered essays in the ``Federalist,'' with extracts here and there from Story.  Of
the State charitable and penal institutions I knew nothing.  Regarding colleges I was fairly
well informed, but as to the practical working of our system of public instruction I had only
the knowledge gained while a scholar in a public school.

There was also another disadvantage.  I knew nothing of the public men of the State.  Having
lived outside of the Commonwealth, first, as a student at Yale, then during nearly three years
abroad, and then nearly six years as a professor in another State, I knew only one of my colleagues,
and of him I had only the knowledge that came from an introduction and five minutes' conversation
ten years before.  It was no better as regarded my acquaintance with the State officers; so
far as I now remember, I had never seen one of them, except at a distance,--the governor, Mr.
Horatio Seymour.

On the evening after our arrival the Republican majority of the Senate met in caucus, partly
to become acquainted, partly to discuss appointments to committees, and partly to decide on
a policy regarding State aid to the prosecution of the war for the Union.  I found myself the
youngest member of this body, and, indeed, of the entire Senate, but soon made the acquaintance
of my colleagues and gained some friendships which have been among the best things life has
brought me.

Foremost in the State Senate, at that period, was Charles James Folger, its president.  He
had served in the Senate several years, had been a county judge, and was destined to become
assistant treasurer of the United States at New York, chief justice of the highest State court,
and finally, to die as Secretary of the Treasury of the United States, after the most crushing
defeat which any candidate for the governorship of New York had ever known.  He was an excellent
lawyer, an impressive speaker, earnestly devoted to the proper discharge of his duties, and
of extraordinarily fine personal appearance.  His watch upon legislation sometimes amused me,
but always won my respect.  Whenever a bill was read a third time he watched it as a cat watches
a mouse.  His hatred of doubtful or bad phraseology was a passion.  He was greatly beloved
and admired, yet, with all his fine and attractive qualities, modest and even diffident to a fault.

Another man whom I then saw for the first time interested me much as soon as his name was called,
and he would have interested me far more had I known how closely my after life was to be linked
with his.  He was then about sixty years of age, tall, spare, and austere, with a kindly eye,
saying little, and that little dryly.  He did not appear unamiable, but there seemed in him
a sort of aloofness: this was Ezra Cornell.

Still another senator was George H. Andrews, from the Otsego district, the old Palatine country.
He had been editor of one of the leading papers in New York, and had been ranked among the
foremost men in his profession, but he had retired into the country to lead the life of a farmer.
He was a man to be respected and even beloved.  His work for the public was exceedingly valuable,
and his speeches of a high order.  Judge Folger, as chairman of the judiciary committee, was
most useful to the State at large in protecting it from evil legislation.  Senator Andrews
was not less valuable to the cities, and above all to the city of New York, for his intelligent
protection of every good measure, and his unflinching opposition to every one of the many doubtful
projects constantly brought in by schemers and dreamers.

Still another senator was James M. Cook of Saratoga.  He had been comptroller of the State
and, at various times, a member of the legislature.  He was the faithful ``watch-dog of the
treasury,''--bitter against every scheme for taking public money for any unworthy purpose,
and, indeed, against any scheme whatever which could not assign for its existence a reason,
clear, cogent, and honest.

Still another member, greatly respected, was Judge Bailey of Oneida County.  His experience
upon the bench made him especially valuable upon the judiciary and other committees.

Yet another man of mark in the body was one of the younger men, George G. Munger of Rochester.
He had preceded me by a few years at Yale, had won respect as a county judge, and had a certain
lucid way of presenting public matters which made him a valuable public servant.

Another senator of great value was Henry R. Low.  He, too, had been a county judge and brought
not only legal but financial knowledge to the aid of his colleagues.  He was what Thomas Carlyle
called a ``swallower of formulas.''  That a thing was old and revered mattered little with
him: his question was what is the best thing NOW.

From the city of New York came but one Republican, William Laimbeer, a man of high character
and large business experience; impulsive, but always for right against wrong; kindly in his
nature, but most bitter against Tammany and all its works.

From Essex County came Senator Palmer Havens, also of middle age, of large practical experience,
with a clear, clean style of thinking and speaking, anxious to make a good record by serving
well, and such a record he certainly made.

And, finally, among the Republican members of that session I may name the senator from Oswego,
Mr. Cheney Ames.  Perhaps no one in the body had so large a prac- tical knowledge of the commercial
interests of the State, and especially of the traffic upon its lakes and inland waterways;
on all questions relating to these his advice was of the greatest value; he was in every respect
a good public servant.

On the Democratic side the foremost man by far was Henry C. Murphy of Brooklyn, evidently of
Irish ancestry, though his immediate forefathers had been long in the United States.  He was
a graduate of Columbia College, devoted to history and literature, had produced sundry interesting
books on the early annals of the State, had served with distinction in the diplomatic service
as minister to The Hague, was eminent as a lawyer, and had already considerable legislative
experience.

From New York City came a long series of Democratic members, of whom the foremost was Thomas
C. Fields.  He had considerable experience as a lawyer in the city courts, had served in the
lower house of the legislature, and was preternaturally acute in detecting the interests of
Tammany which he served.  He was a man of much humor, with occasional flashes of wit, his own
worst enemy, evidently, and his career was fitly ended when upon the fall of Tweed he left
his country for his country's good and died in exile.

There were others on both sides whom I could mention as good men and true, but those I have
named took a leading part as heads of committees and in carrying on public business.

The lieutenant-governor of the State who presided over the Senate was Mr. Floyd-Jones, a devoted
Democrat of the old school who exemplified its best qualities; a gentleman, honest, courteous,
not intruding his own views, ready always to give the fullest weight to those of others without
regard to party.

Among the men who, from their constant attendance, might almost be considered as officers of
the Senate were sundry representatives of leading newspapers.  Several of them were men of
marked ability, and well known throughout the State, but they have long since been forgotten
with one exception: this was a quiet reporter who sat just in front of the clerk's chair, day
after day, week after week, throughout the entire session; a man of very few words, and with
whom I had but the smallest acquaintance.  Greatly surprised was I in after years when he rose
to be editor of the leading Democratic organ in the State, and finally, under President Cleveland,
a valuable Secretary of the Treasury of the United States: Daniel Manning.

In the distribution of committees there fell to me the chairmanship of the committee on education,
or, as it was then called, the committee on literature.  I was also made a member of the committee
on cities and villages, afterward known as the committee on municipal affairs, and of the committee
on the library.  For the first of these positions I was somewhat fitted by my knowledge of
the colleges and universities of the State, but in other respects was poorly fitted.  For the
second of these positions, that of the committee on cities and villages, I am free to confess
that no one could be more wretchedly equipped; for the third, the committee on the library,
my qualifications were those of a man who loved both to collect books and to read them.

But from the beginning I labored hard to fit myself, even at that late hour, for the duties
pressing upon me, and gradually my practical knowledge was increased.  Still there were sad
gaps in it, and more than once I sat in the committee-room, looking exceedingly wise, no doubt,
but with an entirely inadequate appreciation of the argument made before me.

During this first session my maiden speech was upon the governor's message, and I did my best
to show what I thought His Excellency's shortcomings.

With others I did my best against him; but while condemning his political course as severely
as was possible to me, I never attacked his personal character or his motives.  The consequence
was that, while politically we were enemies, personally a sort of friendship remained, and
I recall few things with more pleasure than my journeyings from Albany up the Mohawk Valley,
sitting at his side, he giving accounts to me of the regions through which we passed, and the
history connected with them, regarding which he was wonderfully well informed.  If he hated
New England as the breeding bed of radicalism, he loved New York passionately.

The first important duty imposed upon me as chairman of the committee on education was when
there came up a bill for disposing of the proceeds of public lands appropriated by the government
of the United States to institutions for scientific and technical education, under what was
then known as the Morrill Act of 1862.  Of these lands the share which had come to New York
was close upon a million acres--a fair-sized European principality.  Here, owing to circumstances
which I shall detail in another chapter, I found myself in a contest with Mr. Cornell.  I favored
holding the fund together, letting it remain with the so-called ``People's College,'' to which
it had been already voted, and insisted that the matter was one to be referred to the committee
on education.  Mr. Cornell, on the other hand, favored the division of the fund, and proposed
a bill giving one half of it to the ``State Agricultural College'' recently established at
Ovid on Seneca Lake.  The end was that the matter was referred to a joint committee composed
of the committees on literature and agriculture, that is, to Mr. Cornell's committee and my
own, and as a result no meeting to consider the bill was held during that session.

Gradually I accumulated a reasonable knowledge of the educational interests intrusted to us,
but ere long there came in from the superintendent of public instruction; Mr. Victor Rice,
a plan for codifying the educational laws of the State.  This necessitated a world of labor
on my part.  Section by section, paragraph by paragraph, phrase by phrase, I had to go through
it, and night after night was devoted to studying every part of it in the light of previous
legislation, the laws of other States, and such information as could be obtained from general
sources.  At last, after much alteration and revision, I brought forward the bill, secured
its passage, and I may say that it was not without a useful influence upon the great educational
interests of the State.

I now brought forward another educational bill.  Various persons interested in the subject
appeared urging the creation of additional State normal schools, in order to strengthen and
properly develop the whole State school system.  At that time there was but one; that one at
Albany; and thus our great Commonwealth was in this respect far behind many of her sister States.
The whole system was evidently suffering from the want of teachers thoroughly and practically
equipped.  Out of the multitude of projects presented, I combined what I thought the best parts
of three or four in a single bill, and although at first there were loud exclamations against
so lavish a use of public money, I induced the committee to report my bill, argued it in the
Senate, overcame much opposition, and thus finally secured a law establishing four State normal
schools.

Still another duty imposed upon me necessitated much work for which almost any other man in
the Senate would have been better equipped by experience and knowledge of State affairs.  The
condition of things in the city of New York had become unbearable; the sway of Tammany Hall
had gradually brought out elements of opposition such as before that time had not existed.
Tweed was already making himself felt, though he had not yet assumed the complete control which
he exercised afterward.  The city system was bad throughout; but at the very center of evil
stood what was dignified by the name of the ``Health Department.''  At the head of this was
a certain Boole, who, having gained the title of ``city inspector,'' had the virtual appointment
of a whole army of so-called ``health inspectors,'' ``health officers,'' and the like, charged
with the duty of protecting the public from the inroads of disease; and never was there a greater
outrage against a city than the existence of this body of men, absolutely unfit both as regarded
character and education for the duties they pretended to discharge.

Against this state of things there had been developed a ``citizens' committee,'' representing
the better elements of both parties,--its main representatives being Judge Whiting and Mr.
Dorman B. Eaton,--and the evidence these gentlemen exhibited before the committee on municipal
affairs, at Albany, as to the wretched condition of the city health boards was damning.  Whole
districts in the most crowded wards were in the worst possible sanitary condition.  There was
probably at that time nothing to approach it in any city in Christendom save, possibly, Naples.
Great blocks of tenement houses were owned by men who kept low drinking bars in them, each
of whom, having secured from Boole the position of ``health officer,'' steadily resisted all
sanitary improvement or even inspection.  Many of these tenement houses were known as ``fever
nests''; through many of them small- pox frequently raged, and from them it was constantly
communicated to other parts of the city.

Therefore it was that one morning Mr. Laimbeer, the only Republican member from the city, rose,
made an impassioned speech on this condition of things, moved a committee to examine and report,
and named as its members Judge Munger, myself, and the Democratic senator from the Buffalo
district, Mr. Humphrey.

As a result, a considerable part of my second winter as senator was devoted to the work of
this special committee in the city of New York.  We held a sort of court, had with us the sergeant-at-arms,
were empowered to send for persons and papers, summoned large numbers of witnesses, and brought
to view a state of things even worse than anything any of us had suspected.

Against the citizens' committee, headed by Judge Whiting and Mr. Eaton, Boole, aided by a most
successful Tammany lawyer of the old sort, John Graham, fought with desperation.  In order
to disarm his assailants as far as possible, he brought before the committee a number of his
``health officers'' and ``sanitary inspectors,'' whom he evidently thought best qualified to
pass muster; but as one after another was examined and cross-examined, neither the cunning
of Boole nor the skill of Mr. Graham could prevent the revelation of their utter unfitness.
In the testimony of one of them the whole monstrous absurdity culminated.  Judge Whiting examining
him before the commission with reference to a case of small-pox which had occurred within his
district, and to which, as health officer it was his duty to give attention, and asking him
if he remembered the case, witness answered that he did.  The following dialogue then ensued:

Q.  Did you visit this sick person?

A.  No, sir.

Q.  Why did you not?

A.  For the same reason that you would not.

Q.  What was that reason?

A.  I did n't want to catch the disease myself.

Q.  Did the family have any sort of medical aid?

A.  Yes.

Q.  From whom did they have it?

A.  From themselves; they was ``highjinnicks'' (hygienics).

Q.  What do you mean by ``highjinnicks''?

A.  I mean persons who doctor themselves.

After other answers of a similar sort the witness departed; but for some days afterward Judge
Whiting edified the court, in his examination of Boole's health officers and inspectors, by
finally asking each one whether he had any ``highjinnicks'' in his health district.  Some answered
that they had them somewhat; some thought that they had them ``pretty bad,'' others thought
that there was ``not much of it,'' others claimed that they were ``quite serious''; and, finally,
in the examination of a certain health officer who was very anxious to show that he had done
his best, there occurred the following dialogue which brought down the house:

Q.  (By Judge Whiting.)  Mr. Health Officer, have you had any ``highjinnicks'' in your district?

A.  Yes, sir.

Q.  Much?

A.  Yes, sir, quite a good deal.

Q.  Have you done anything in regard to them?

A.  Yes, sir; I have done all that I could.

Q.  Witness, now, on your oath, do you know what the word ``highjinnicks'' means?

A.  Yes, sir.

Q.  What does it mean?

A.  It means the bad smells that arise from standing water.

At this the court was dissolved in laughter, but Mr. Graham made the best that he could of
it by the following questions and answers:

Q.  Witness, have you ever learned Greek?

A.  No, sir.

Q.  Can you speak Greek?

A.  No, sir.

Q.  Do you understand Greek?

A.  No, sir.

``Then you may stand down.''

The examination was long and complicated, so that with various departments to be examined there
was no time to make a report before the close of the session, and the whole matter had to go
over until the newly elected senate came into office the following year.

Shortly after the legislature had adjourned I visited the city of New York, and on arriving
took up the evening paper which, more than any other, has always been supposed to represent
the best sentiment of the city;--the ``New York Evening Post.''  The first article on which
my eye fell was entitled ``The New York Senate Trifling,'' and the article went on to say that
the Senate of the State had wasted its time, had practically done nothing for the city, had
neglected its interests, had paid no attention to its demands, and the like.  That struck me
as ungrateful, for during the whole session we had worked early and late on questions relating
to the city, had thwarted scores of evil schemes, and in some cases, I fear, had sacrificed
the interests of the State at large to those of the city.  Thus there dawned on me a knowledge
of the reward which faithful legislators are likely to obtain.

Another of these city questions also showed the sort of work to be done in this thankless protection
of the metropolis.  During one of the sessions there had appeared in the lobby an excellent
man, Dr. Levi Silliman Ives, formerly Protestant Episcopal Bishop of North Carolina, who, having
been converted to Roman Catholicism, had become a layman and head of a protectory for Catholic
children.  With him came a number of others of his way of thinking, and a most determined effort
was made to pass a bill sanctioning a gift of one half of the great property known as Ward's
Island, adjacent to the city of New York, to this Roman Catholic institution.

I had strong sympathy with the men who carried on the protectory, and was quite willing to
go as far as possible in aiding them, but was opposed to voting such a vast landed property
belonging to the city into the hands of any church, and I fought the bill at all stages.  In
committee of the whole, and at first reading, priestly influence led a majority to vote for
it, but at last, despite all the efforts of Tammany Hall, it was defeated.

It was during this first period of my service that the last and most earnest effort of the
State was made for the war.  Various circumstances had caused discourage- ment.  It had become
difficult to raise troops, yet it was most important to avoid a draft.  In the city of New
York, at the prospect of an enforced levy of troops, there had been serious uprisings which
were only suppressed after a considerable loss of life.  It was necessary to make one supreme
effort, and the Republican members of the legislature decided to raise a loan of several millions
for bounties to those who should volunteer.  This decision was not arrived at without much
opposition, and, strange to say, its most serious opponent was Horace Greeley, who came to
Albany in the hope of defeating it.  Invaluable as his services had been during the struggle
which preceded the war, it must be confessed, even by his most devoted friends, that during
the war he was not unfrequently a stumbling block.  His cry ``on to Richmond'' during the first
part of the struggle, his fearful alarm when, like the heroes in the ``Biglow Papers,'' he
really discovered ``why baggonets is peaked,'' his terror as the conflict deepened, his proposals
for special peace negotiations later--all these things were among the serious obstacles which
President Lincoln had to encounter; and now, fearing burdens which, in his opinion, could not
and would not be borne by the State, and conjuring up specters of trouble, he came to Albany
and earnestly advised members of the legislature against the passage of the bounty bill.  Fortunately,
common sense triumphed, and the bill was passed.

Opposition came also from another and far different source.  There was then in the State Senate
a Democrat of the oldest and strongest type; a man who believed most devoutly in Jefferson
and Jackson, and abhorred above all things, abolitionists and protectionists,--Dr. Allaben
of Schoharie.  A more thoroughly honest man never lived; he was steadily on the side of good
legislation; but in the midst of the discussion regarding this great loan for bounties he arose
and began a speech which, as he spoke but rarely, received general attention. He was deeply
in earnest.  He said (in substance), ``I shall vote for this loan; for of various fearful evils
it seems the least.  But I wish, here and now, and with the deepest sorrow, to record a prediction:
I ask you to note it and to remember it, for it will be fulfilled, and speedily.  This State
debt which you are now incurring will never be paid.  It cannot be paid.  More than that, none
of the vast debts incurred for military purposes, whether by the Nation or by the States, will
be paid; the people will surely repudiate them.  Nor is this all.  Not one dollar of all the
treasury notes issued by the United States will ever be redeemed.  Your paper currency has
already depreciated much and will depreciate more and more; all bonds and notes, State and
National, issued to continue this fratricidal war will be whirled into the common vortex of
repudiation.  I say this with the deepest pain, for I love my country, but I cannot be blind
to the teachings of history.''  He then went on to cite the depreciation of our revolutionary
currency, and, at great length pictured the repudiation of the assignats during the French
Revolution.  He had evidently read Alison and Thiers carefully, and he spoke like an inspired
prophet.

As Senator Allaben thus spoke, Senator Fields of New York quietly left his seat and came to
me.  He was a most devoted servant of Tammany, but was what was known in those days as a War
Democrat.  His native pugnacity caused him to feel that the struggle must be fought out, whereas
Democrats of a more philosophic sort, like Allaben, known in those days as ``Copperheads,''
sought peace at any price.  Therefore it was that, while Senator Allaben was pouring out with
the deepest earnestness these prophecies of repudiation, Mr. Fields came round to my desk and
said to me:  ``You have been a professor of history; you are supposed to know something about
the French Revolution; if your knowledge is good for anything, why in h--l don't you use it now?''

This exhortation was hardly necessary, and at the close of Senator Allaben's remarks I arose
and presented another view of the case.  It happened by a curious coin- cidence that, having
made a few years before a very careful study of the issues of paper money during the French
Revolution, I had a portion of my very large collection of assignats, mandats, and other revolutionary
currency in Albany, having brought it there in order to show it to one or two of my friends
who had expressed an interest in the subject.

Holding this illustrative material in reserve I showed the whole amount of our American paper
currency in circulation to be about eight hundred million dollars, of which only about one
half was of the sort to which the senator referred.  I then pointed to the fact that, although
the purchasing power of the French franc at the time of the Revolution was fully equal to the
purchasing power of the American dollar of our own time, the French revolutionary government
issued, in a few months, forty- five thousand millions of francs in paper money, and had twenty-five
thousand millions of it in circulation at the time when the great depression referred to by
Dr. Allaben had taken place.

I also pointed out the fact that our American notes were now so thoroughly well engraved that
counterfeiting was virtually impossible, so that one of the leading European governments had
its notes engraved in New York, on this account, whereas, the French assignats could be easily
counterfeited, and, as a matter of fact, were counterfeited in vast numbers, the British government
pouring them into France through the agency of the French royalists, especially in Brittany,
almost by shiploads, and to such purpose, that the French government officials themselves were
at last unable to discriminate between the genuine money and the counterfeit.  I also pointed
out the connection of our national banking system with our issues of bonds and paper, one of
the happiest and most statesmanlike systems ever devised, whereas, in France there was practically
no redemption for the notes, save as they could be used for purchasing from the government
the doubtful titles to the confiscated houses and lands of the clergy and aristocracy.

The speech of Senator Allaben had exercised a real effect, but these simple statements, which
I supported by evidence, and especially by exhibiting specimens of the assignats bearing numbers
showing that the issues had risen into the thousands of millions, and in a style of engraving
most easily counterfeited, sufficed to convince the Senate that no such inference as was drawn
by the senator was warranted by the historical facts in the case.

A vote was taken, the bill was passed, the troops were finally raised, and the debt was extinguished
not many years afterward.

It is a pleasure for me to remember that at the close of my remarks, which I took pains to
make entirely courteous to Dr. Allaben, he came to me, and strongly opposed as we were in politics,
he grasped me by the hand most heartily, expressed his amazement at seeing these assignats,
mandats, and other forms of French revolutionary issues, of which he had never before seen
one, and thanked me for refuting his arguments.  It is one of the very few cases I have ever
known, in which a speech converted an opponent.

Perhaps a word more upon this subject may not be without interest.  My attention had been drawn
to the issues of paper money during the French Revolution, by my studies of that period for
my lectures on modern history at the University of Michigan, about five years before.  In taking
up this special subject I had supposed that a few days would be sufficient for all the study
needed; but I became more and more interested in it, obtained a large mass of documents from
France, and then and afterward accumulated by far the largest collection of French paper money,
of all the different issues, sorts, and amounts, as well as of collateral newspaper reports
and financial documents, ever brought into our country.  The study of the subject for my class,
which I had hoped to confine to a few days, thus came to absorb my leisure for months, and
I remember that, at last, when I had given my lecture on the subject to my class at the university,
a feeling of deep regret, almost of remorse, came over me, as I thought how much valuable time
I had given to a subject that, after all, had no bearing on any present problem, which would
certainly be forgotten by the majority of my hearers, and probably by myself.

These studies were made mainly in 1859.  Then the lectures were laid aside, and though, from
time to time, when visiting France, I kept on collecting illustrative materials, no further
use was made of them until this debate during the session of the State Senate of 1864.

Out of this offhand speech upon the assignats grew a paper which, some time afterward, I presented
in Washington before a number of members of the Senate and House, at the request of General
Garfield, who was then a representative, and of his colleague, Mr. Chittenden of Brooklyn.
In my audience were some of the foremost men of both houses, and among them such as Senators
Bayard, Stevenson, Morrill, Conkling, Edmunds, Gibson, and others.  This speech, which was
the result of my earlier studies, improved by material acquired later, and most carefully restudied
and verified, I repeated before a large meeting of the Union League Club at New York, Senator
Hamilton Fish presiding.  The paper thus continued to grow and, having been published in New
York by Messrs. Appleton, a cheap edition of it was circulated some years afterward, largely
under the auspices of General Garfield, to act as an antidote to the ``Greenback Craze'' then
raging through Ohio and the Western States.

Finally, having been again restudied, in the light of my ever-increasing material, it was again
reprinted and circulated as a campaign document during the struggle against Mr. Bryan and the
devotees of the silver standard in the campaign of 1896, copies of it being spread very widely,
especially through the West, and placed, above all, in nearly every public library, university,
college, and normal school in the Union.

I allude to this as showing to any young student who may happen to read these recollections,
the value of a careful study of any really worthy subject, even though, at first sight, it
may seem to have little relation to present affairs.

In the spring of 1864, at the close of my first year in the State Senate, came the national
convention at Baltimore for the nomination of President and Vice-President, and to that convention
I went as a substitute delegate.  Although I have attended several similar assemblages since,
no other has ever seemed to me so interesting.  It met in an old theater, on one of the noisiest
corners in the city, and, as it was June, and the weather already very warm, it was necessary,
in order to have as much air as possible, to remove curtains and scenery from the stage and
throw the back of the theater open to the street.  The result was, indeed, a circulation of
air, but, with this, a noise from without which confused everything within.

In selecting a president for the convention a new departure was made, for the man chosen was
a clergyman; one of the most eminent divines in the Union,--the Rev. Dr. Robert Breckinridge
of Kentucky, who, on the religious side, had been distinguished as moderator of the Presbyterian
General Assembly, and on the political side was revered for the reason that while very nearly
all his family, and especially his sons and nephews, including the recent Vice-President, had
plunged into the Confederate service, he still remained a staunch and sturdy adherent of the
Union and took his stand with the Republican party.  He was a grand old man, but hardly suited
to the presidency of a political assemblage.

The proceedings were opened with a prayer by a delegate, who had been a colonel in the Union
army, and was now a Methodist clergyman.  The heads of all were bowed, and the clergyman-soldier
began with the words of the Lord's Prayer; but when he had recited about one half of it he
seemed to think that he could better it, and he therefore substituted for the latter half a
petition which began with these words:  ``Grant, O Lord, that the ticket here to be nominated
may command a majority of the suffrages of the American people.''  To those accustomed to the
more usual ways of conducting service this was something of a shock; still there was this to
be said in favor of the reverend colonel's amendment,--he had faith to ask for what he wanted.

This opening prayer being ended, there came a display of parliamentary tactics by leaders from
all parts of the Union: one after another rose in this or that part of the great assemblage
to move this or that resolution, and the confusion which soon prevailed was fearful, the noise
of the street being steadily mingled with the tumult of the house.  But good Dr. Breckinridge
did his best, and in each case put the motion he had happened to hear.  Thereupon each little
group, supposing that the resolution which had been carried was the one it had happened to
hear, moved additional resolutions based upon it.  These various resolutions were amended in
all sorts of ways, in all parts of the house, the good doctor putting the resolutions and amendments
which happened to reach his ear, and declaring them ``carried'' or ``lost,'' as the case might
be.  Thereupon ensued additional resolutions and amendments based upon those which their movers
supposed to have been passed, with the result that, in about twenty minutes no one in the convention,
and least of all its president, knew what we had done or what we ought to do.  Each part of
the house firmly believed that the resolutions which it had heard were those which had been
carried, and the clash and confusion between them all seemed hopeless.

