For the Greek gods, in spite of the white and red of their fair fleet limbs, were not really
what they appeared to be.  The curved brow of Apollo was like the sun's disc crescent over
a hill at dawn, and his feet were as the wings of the morning, but he himself had been cruel
to Marsyas and had made Niobe childless.  In the steel shields of Athena's eyes there had been
no pity for Arachne; the pomp and peacocks of Hera were all that was really noble about her;
and the Father of the Gods himself had been too fond of the daughters of men.  The two most
deeply suggestive figures of Greek Mythology were, for religion, Demeter, an Earth Goddess,
not one of the Olympians, and for art, Dionysus, the son of a mortal woman to whom the moment
of his birth had proved also the moment of her death.

But Life itself from its lowliest and most humble sphere produced one far more marvellous than
the mother of Proserpina or the son of Semele.  Out of the Carpenter's shop at Nazareth had
come a personality infinitely greater than any made by myth and legend, and one, strangely
enough, destined to reveal to the world the mystical meaning of wine and the real beauties
of the lilies of the field as none, either on Cithaeron or at Enna, had ever done.  We must
not be afraid of such a phrase.  Every single work of art is the fulfilment of a prophecy:
for every work of art is the conversion of an idea into an image.  Every single human being
should be the fulfilment of a prophecy: for every human being should be the realisation of
some ideal, either in the mind of God or in the mind of man.  Christ found the type and fixed
it, and the dream of a Virgilian poet, either at Jerusalem or at Babylon, became in the long
progress of the centuries incarnate in him for whom the world was waiting.

To me one of the things in history the most to be regretted is that the Christ's own renaissance,
which has produced the Cathedral at Chartres, the Arthurian cycle of legends, the life of St.
Francis of Assisi, the art of Giotto, and Dante's Divine Comedy, was not allowed to develop
on its own lines, but was interrupted and spoiled by the dreary classical Renaissance that
gave us Petrarch, and Raphael's frescoes, and Palladian architecture, and formal French tragedy,
and St. Paul's Cathedral, and Pope's poetry, and everything that is made from without and by
dead rules, and does not spring from within through some spirit informing it. But wherever
there is a romantic movement in art there somehow, and under some form, is Christ, or the soul
of Christ.  He is in Romeo and Juliet, in the Winter's Tale, in Provencal poetry, in the Ancient
Mariner, in La Belle Dame sans merci, and in Chatterton's Ballad of Charity. 

Carthage possessed the finest harbor on coast of Africa, had situated
in the middle of the Mediterranean, as all the trade to routes crossed.
To these attractions of the sea there was nothing but the arid and mountainous
character of the interior.  Hugo's Les Miserables, Baudelaire's Fleurs
du Mal, the note of pity in Russian novels, Verlaine and Verlaine's poems, the stained glass
and tapestries and the quattro-cento work of Burne-Jones and Morris, belong to him no less
than the tower of Giotto, Lancelot and Guinevere, Tannhauser, the troubled romantic marbles
of Michael Angelo, pointed architecture, and the love of children and flowers--for both of
which, indeed, in classical art there was but little place, hardly enough for them to grow
or play in, but which, from the twelfth century down to our own day, have been continually
making their appearances in art, under various modes and at various times, coming fitfully
and wilfully, as children, as flowers, are apt to do: spring always seeming to one as if the
flowers had been in hiding, and only came out into the sun because they were afraid that grown
up people would grow tired of looking for them and give up the search; and the life of a child
being no more than an April day on which there is both rain and sun for the narcissus.

It is the imaginative quality of Christ's own nature that makes him this palpitating centre
of romance.  The strange figures of poetic drama and ballad are made by the imagination of
others, but out of his own imagination entirely did Jesus of Nazareth create himself.  The
cry of Isaiah had really no more to do with his coming than the song of the nightingale has
to do with the rising of the moon--no more, though perhaps no less.  He was the denial as well
as the affirmation of prophecy.  For every expectation that he fulfilled there was another
that he destroyed.  'In all beauty,' says Bacon, 'there is some strangeness of proportion,'
and of those who are born of the spirit--of those, that is to say, who like himself are dynamic
forces--Christ says that they are like the wind that 'bloweth where it listeth, and no man
can tell whence it cometh and whither it goeth.'  That is why he is so fascinating to artists.
He has all the colour elements of life: mystery, strangeness, pathos, suggestion, ecstasy,
love.  He appeals to the temper of wonder, and creates that mood in which alone he can be understood.

And to me it is a joy to remember that if he is 'of imagination all compact,' the world itself
is of the same substance.  I said in Dorian Gray that the great sins of the world take place
in the brain: but it is in the brain that everything takes place.  We know now that we do not
see with the eyes or hear with the ears.  They are really channels for the transmission, adequate
or inadequate, of sense impressions.  It is in the brain that the poppy is red, that the apple
is odorous, that the skylark sings.

Of late I have been studying with diligence the four prose poems about Christ.  At Christmas
I managed to get hold of a Greek Testament, and every morning, after I had cleaned my cell
and polished my tins, I read a little of the Gospels, a dozen verses taken by chance anywhere.
It is a delightful way of opening the day.  Every one, even in a turbulent, ill- disciplined
life, should do the same.  Endless repetition, in and out of season, has spoiled for us the
freshness, the naivete, the simple romantic charm of the Gospels.  We hear them read far too
often and far too badly, and all repetition is anti-spiritual.  When one returns to the Greek;
it is like going into a garden of lilies out of some, narrow and dark house.

And to me, the pleasure is doubled by the reflection that it is extremely probable that we
have the actual terms, the ipsissima verba, used by Christ.  It was always supposed that Christ
talked in Aramaic.  Even Renan thought so.  But now we know that the Galilean peasants, like
the Irish peasants of our own day, were bilingual, and that Greek was the ordinary language
of intercourse all over Palestine, as indeed all over the Eastern world.  I never liked the
idea that we knew of Christ's own words only through a translation of a translation.  It is
a delight to me to think that as far as his conversation was concerned, Charmides might have
listened to him, and Socrates reasoned with him, and Plato understood him: that he really said
[Greek text], that when he thought of the lilies of the field and how they neither toil nor
spin, his absolute expression was [Greek text], and that his last word when he cried out 'my
life has been completed, has reached its fulfilment, has been perfected,' was exactly as St.
John tells us it was: [Greek text]--no more.

While in reading the Gospels--particularly that of St. John himself, or whatever early Gnostic
took his name and mantle--I see the continual assertion of the imagination as the basis of
all spiritual and material life, I see also that to Christ imagination was simply a form of
love, and that to him love was lord in the fullest meaning of the phrase.  Some six weeks ago
I was allowed by the doctor to have white bread to eat instead of the coarse black or brown
bread of ordinary prison fare.  It is a great delicacy.  It will sound strange that dry bread
could possibly be a delicacy to any one.  To me it is so much so that at the close of each
meal I carefully eat whatever crumbs may be left on my tin plate, or have fallen on the rough
towel that one uses as a cloth so as not to soil one's table; and I do so not from hunger--I
get now quite sufficient food--but simply in order that nothing should be wasted of what is
given to me.  So one should look on love.

Christ, like all fascinating personalities, had the power of not merely saying beautiful things
himself, but of making other people say beautiful things to him; and I love the story St. Mark
tells us about the Greek woman, who, when as a trial of her faith he said to her that he could
not give her the bread of the children of Israel, answered him that the little dogs--([Greek
text], 'little dogs' it should be rendered)--who are under the table eat of the crumbs that
the children let fall.  Most people live for love and admiration.  But it is by love and admiration
that we should live.  If any love is shown us we should recognise that we are quite unworthy
of it.  Nobody is worthy to be loved.  The fact that God loves man shows us that in the divine
order of ideal things it is written that eternal love is to be given to what is eternally unworthy.
Or if that phrase seems to be a bitter one to bear, let us say that every one is worthy of
love, except him who thinks that he is.  Love is a sacrament that should be taken kneeling,
and Domine, non sum dignus should be on the lips and in the hearts of those who receive it.

If ever I write again, in the sense of producing artistic work, there are just two subjects
on which and through which I desire to express myself: one is 'Christ as the precursor of the
romantic movement in life': the other is 'The artistic life considered in its relation to conduct.'
The first is, of course, intensely fascinating, for I see in Christ not merely the essentials
of the supreme romantic type, but all the accidents, the wilfulnesses even, of the romantic
temperament also.  He was the first person who ever said to people that they should live 'flower-like
lives.'  He fixed the phrase.  He took children as the type of what people should try to become.
He held them up as examples to their elders, which I myself have always thought the chief use
of children, if what is perfect should have a use.  Dante describes the soul of a man as coming
from the hand of God 'weeping and laughing like a little child,' and Christ also saw that the
soul of each one should be a guisa di fanciulla che piangendo e ridendo pargoleggia.  He felt
that life was changeful, fluid, active, and that to allow it to be stereotyped into any form
was death.  He saw that people should not be too serious over material, common interests: that
to be unpractical was to be a great thing: that one should not bother too much over affairs.
The birds didn't, why should man?  He is charming when he says, 'Take no thought for the morrow;
is not the soul more than meat? is not the body more than raiment?'  A Greek might have used
the latter phrase.  It is full of Greek feeling.  But only Christ could have said both, and
so summed up life perfectly for us.

