"Nay, your honour," said Phoebe, "I scorn the old man's words, in the way of seemliness or
unseemliness either. Master Louis did but snatch a kiss, that is the truth of it, if it must
be told."

Here Humgudgeon groaned deeply, while his Excellency avoided laughing with some difficulty.
"Thou hast given excellent tokens, Phoebe," he said; "and if they be true, as I think they
seem to be, thou shalt not lack thy reward.--And here comes our spy from the stables."

"There are not the least signs," said the trooper, "that horses have been in the stables for
a month--there is no litter in the stalls, no hay in the racks, the corn-bins are empty, and
the mangers are full of cobwebs."

"Ay, ay," said the old knight, "I have seen when I kept twenty good horses in these stalls,
with many a groom and stable-boy to attend them."

"In the meanwhile," said Cromwell, "their present state tells little for the truth of your
own story, that there were horses to-day, on which this Kerneguy and your son fled from justice."

"I did not say that the horses were kept there," said the knight. "I have horses and stables
elsewhere."

"Fie, fie, for shame, for shame!" said the General; "can a white-bearded man, I ask it once
more, be a false witness?"

"Faith, sir," said Sir Henry Lee, "it is a thriving trade, and I wonder not that you who live
on it are so severe in prosecuting interlopers. But it is the times, and those who rule the
times, that make grey-beards deceivers."

"Thou art facetious friend, as well as daring in thy malignity," said Cromwell; "but credit
me, I will cry quittance with you ere I am done. Whereunto lead these doors?"

"To bedrooms," answered the knight.

"Bedrooms! only to bedrooms?" said the Republican General, in a voice which indicated such
was the internal occupation of his thoughts, that he had not fully understood the answer.

"Lord, sir," said the knight, "why should you make it so strange? I say these doors lead to
bedrooms--to places where honest men sleep, and rogues lie awake."

"You are running up a farther account, Sir Henry," said the General; "but we will balance it
once and for all."

During the whole of the scene, Cromwell, whatever might be the internal uncertainty of his
mind, maintained the most strict temperance in language and manner, just as if he had no farther
interest in what was passing, than as a military man employed in discharging the duty enjoined
him by his superiors. But the restraint upon his passion was but

  "The torrent's smoothness ere it dash below."

[Footnote:
  But mortal pleasure, what art thou in truth?
  The torrent's smoothness ere it dash, below.
           CAMPBELL'S Gertrude of Wyoming.]

The course of his resolution was hurried on even more forcibly, because no violence of expression
attended or announced its current. He threw himself into a chair, with a countenance that indicated
no indecision of mind, but a determination which awaited only the signal for action. Meanwhile
the knight, as if resolved in nothing to forego the privileges of his rank and place, sat himself
down in turn, and putting on his hat, which lay on a table, regarded the General with a calm
look of fearless indifference. The soldiers stood around, some holding the torches, which illuminated
the apartment with a lurid and sombre glare of light, the others resting upon their weapons.
Phoebe, with her hands folded, her eyes turned upwards till the pupils were scarce visible,
and every shade of colour banished from her ruddy cheek, stood like one in immediate apprehension
of the sentence of death being pronounced, and instant execution commanded.

Heavy steps were at last heard, and Pearson and some of the soldiers returned. This seemed
to be what Cromwell waited for. He started up, and asked hastily, "Any news, Pearson? any prisoners--any
malignants slain in thy defence?"

"None, so please your Excellency," said the officer.

"And are thy sentinels all carefully placed, as Tomkins' scroll gave direction, and with fitting
orders?"

"With the most deliberate care," said Pearson.

"Art thou very sure," said Cromwell, pulling him a little to one side, "that this is all well
and duly cared for? Bethink thee, that when we engage ourselves in the private communications,
all will be lost should the party we look for have the means of dodging us by an escape into
the more open rooms, and from thence perhaps into the forest."

"My Lord-General," answered Pearson, "if placing the guards on the places pointed out in this
scroll be sufficient, with the strictest orders to stop, and, if necessary, to stab or shoot,
whoever crosses their post, such orders are given to men who will not fail to execute them.
If more is necessary, your Excellency has only to speak."

"No--no--no, Pearson," said the General, "thou hast done well.--This night over, and let it
end but as we hope, thy reward shall not be wanting.--And now to business.--Sir Henry Lee,
undo me the secret spring of yonder picture of your ancestor. Nay, spare yourself the trouble
and guilt of falsehood or equivocation, and, I say, undo me that spring presently."

"When I acknowledge you for my master, and wear your livery, I may obey your commands," answered
the knight; "even then I would need first to understand them."

"Wench," said Cromwell, addressing Phoebe, "go thou undo the spring--you could do it fast enough
when you aided at the gambols of the demons of Woodstock, and terrified even Mark Everard,
who, I judged, had more sense."

"Oh Lord, sir, what shall I do?" said Phoebe, looking to the knight; "they know all about it.
What shall I do?"

"For thy life, hold out to the last, wench! Every minute is worth a million."

"Ha! heard you that, Pearson?" said Cromwell to the officer; then, stamping with his foot,
he added, "Undo the spring, or I will else use levers and wrenching-irons--Or, ha! another
petard were well bestowed-- Call the engineer."

"O Lord, sir," cried Phoebe, "I shall never live another peter--I will open the spring."

"Do as thou wilt," said Sir Henry; "it shall profit them but little."

Whether from real agitation, or from a desire to gain time, Phoebe was some minutes ere she
could get the spring to open; it was indeed secured with art, and the machinery on which it
acted was concealed in the frame of the portrait. The whole, when fastened, appeared quite
motionless, and betrayed, as when examined by Colonel Everard, no external mark of its being
possible to remove it. It was now withdrawn, however, and showed a narrow recess, with steps
which ascended on one side into the thickness of the wall. Cromwell was now like a greyhound
slipped from the leash with the prey in full view.--"Up," he cried, "Pearson, thou art swifter
than I--Up thou next, corporal." With more agility than could have been expected from his person
or years, which were past the meridian of life, and exclaiming, "Before, those with the torches!"
he followed the party, like an eager huntsman in the rear of his hounds, to encourage at once
and direct them, as they penetrated into the labyrinth described by Dr. Rochecliffe in the
"Wonders of Woodstock."

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER THE THIRTY-FOURTH.
    BALLAD OF FAIR ROSAMOND.

The tradition of the country, as well as some historical evidence, confirmed the opinion that
there existed, within the old Royal Lodge at Woodstock, a labyrinth, or connected series of
subterranean passages, built chiefly by Henry II., for the security of his mistress, Rosamond
Clifford, from the jealousy of his Queen, the celebrated Eleanor. Dr. Rochecliffe, indeed,
in one of those fits of contradiction with which antiquaries are sometimes seized, was bold
enough to dispute the alleged purpose of the perplexed maze of rooms and passages, with which
the walls of the ancient palace were perforated; but the fact was undeniable, that in raising
the fabric some Norman architect had exerted the utmost of the complicated art, which they
have often shown elsewhere, in creating secret passages, and chambers of retreat and concealment.
There were stairs, which were ascended merely, as it seemed, for the purpose of descending
again--passages, which, after turning and winding for a considerable way, returned to the place
where they set out--there were trapdoors and hatchways, panels and portcullises. Although Oliver
was assisted by a sort of ground-plan, made out and transmitted by Joseph Tomkins, whose former
employment in Dr. Rochecliffe's service had made him fully acquainted with the place, it was
found imperfect; and, moreover, the most serious obstacles to their progress occurred in the
shape of strong doors, party-walls, and iron-grates--so that the party blundered on in the
dark, uncertain whether they were not going farther from, rather than approaching, the extremity
of the labyrinth. They were obliged to send for mechanics, with sledge-hammers and other instruments,
to force one or two of those doors, which resisted all other means of undoing them. Labouring
along in these dusky passages, where, from time to time, they were like to be choked by the
dust which their acts of violence excited, the soldiers were obliged to be relieved oftener
than once, and the bulky Corporal Grace-be-here himself puffed and blew like a grampus that
has got into shoal water. Cromwell alone continued, with unabated zeal, to push on his researches--to
encourage the soldiers, by the exhortations which they best understood, against fainting for
lack of faith--and to secure, by sentinels at proper places, possession of the ground which
they had already explored. His acute and observing eye detected, with a sneering smile, the
cordage and machinery by which the bed of poor Desborough had been inverted, and several remains
of the various disguises, as well as private modes of access, by which Desborough, Bletson,
and Harrison, had been previously imposed upon. He pointed them out to Pearson, with no farther
comment than was implied in the exclamation, "The simple fools!"

But his assistants began to lose heart and be discouraged, and required all his spirit to raise
theirs. He then called their attention to voices which they seemed to hear before them, and
urged these as evidence that they were moving on the track of some enemy of the Commonwealth,
who, for the execution of his malignant plots, had retreated into these extraordinary fastnesses.

The spirits of the men became at last downcast, notwithstanding all this encouragement. They
spoke to each other in whispers, of the devils of Woodstock, who might be all the while decoying
them forward to a room said to exist in the Palace, where the floor, revolving on an axis,
precipitated those who entered into a bottomless abyss. Humgudgeon hinted, that he had consulted
the Scripture that morning by way of lot, and his fortune had been to alight on the passage,
"Eutychus fell down from the third loft." The energy and authority of Cromwell, however, and
the refreshment of some food and strong waters, reconciled them to pursuing their task.

Nevertheless, with all their unwearied exertions, morning dawned on the search before they
had reached Dr. Rochecliffe's sitting apartment, into which, after all, they obtained entrance
by a mode much more difficult than that which the Doctor himself employed. But here their ingenuity
was long at fault. From the miscellaneous articles that were strewed around, and the preparations
made for food and lodging, it seemed they had gained the very citadel of the labyrinth; but
though various passages opened from it, they all terminated in places with which they were
already acquainted, or communicated with the other parts of the house, where their own sentinels
assured them none had passed. Cromwell remained long in deep uncertainty. Meantime he directed
Pearson to take charge of the ciphers, and more important papers which lay on the table. "Though
there is little there," he said, "that I have not already known, by means of Trusty Tomkins--Honest
Joseph--for an artful and thorough-paced agent, the like of thee is not left in England."

After a considerable pause, during which he sounded with the pommel of his sword almost every
stone in the building, and every plank on the floor, the General gave orders to bring the old
knight and Dr. Rochecliffe to the spot, trusting that he might work out of them some explanation
of the secrets of this apartment.

"So please your Excellency, to let me deal with him," said Pearson, who was a true soldier
of fortune, and had been a buccaneer in the West Indies, "I think that, by a whipcord twitched
tight round their forehead, and twisted about with a pistol-but, I could make either the truth
start from their lips, or the eyes from their head."

"Out upon thee, Pearson!" said Cromwell, with abhorrence; "we have no warrant for such cruelty,
neither as Englishmen nor Christians. We may slay malignants as we crush noxious animals, but
to torture them is a deadly sin; for it is written, 'He made them to be pitied of those who
carried them captive.' Nay, I recall the order even for their examination, trusting that wisdom
will be granted us without it, to discover their most secret devices."

There was a pause accordingly, during which an idea seized upon Cromwell's imagination--"Bring
me hither," he said, "yonder stool;" and placing it beneath one of the windows, of which there
were two so high in the wall as not to be accessible from the floor, he clambered up into the
entrance of the window, which was six or seven feet deep, corresponding with the thickness
of the wall. "Come up hither, Pearson," said the General; "but ere thou comest, double the
guard at the foot of the turret called Love's Ladder, and bid them bring up the other petard--So
now, come thou hither."

The inferior officer, however brave in the field, was one of those whom a great height strikes
with giddiness and sickness. He shrunk back from the view of the precipice, on the verge of
which Cromwell was standing with complete indifference, till the General, catching the hand
of his follower, pulled him forward as far as he would advance. "I think," said the General,
"I have found the clew, but by this light it is no easy one! See you, we stand in the portal
near the top of Rosamond's Tower; and yon turret, which rises opposite to our feet, is that
which is called Love's Ladder, from which the drawbridge reached that admitted the profligate
Norman tyrant to the bower of his mistress."

"True, my lord, but the drawbridge is gone," said Pearson.

"Ay, Pearson," replied the General; "but an active man might spring from the spot we stand
upon to the battlements of yonder turret."

"I do not think so, my lord," said Pearson.

"What?" said Cromwell; "not if the avenger of blood were behind you, with his slaughter-weapon
in his hand?"

"The fear of instant death might do much," answered Pearson; "but when I look at that sheer
depth on either side, and at the empty chasm between us and yonder turret, which is, I warrant
you, twelve feet distant, I confess the truth, nothing short of the most imminent danger should
induce me to try. Pah--the thought makes my head grow giddy!--I tremble to see your Highness
stand there, balancing yourself as if you meditated a spring into the empty air. I repeat,
I would scarce stand so near the verge as does your Highness, for the rescue of my life."

"Ah, base and degenerate spirit!" said the General; "soul of mud and clay, wouldst thou not
do it, and much more, for the possession of empire!--that is, peradventure," continued he,
changing his tone as one who has said too much, "shouldst thou be called on to do this, that
thereby becoming a great man in the tribes of Israel, thou mightest redeem the captivity of
Jerusalem--ay, and it may be, work some great work for the afflicted people of this land?"

"Your Highness may feel such calls," said the officer; "but they are not for poor Gilbert Pearson,
your faithful follower. You made a jest of me yesterday, when I tried to speak your language;
and I am no more able to fulfil your designs than to use your mode of speech."

"But, Pearson," said Cromwell, "thou hast thrice, yea, four times, called me your Highness."

"Did I, my lord? I was not sensible of it. I crave your pardon," said the officer.

"Nay," said Oliver, "there was no offence. I do indeed stand high, and I may perchance stand
higher--though, alas, it were fitter for a simple soul like me to return to my plough and my
husbandry. Nevertheless, I will not wrestle against the Supreme will, should I be called on
to do yet more in that worthy cause. For surely he who hath been to our British Israel as a
shield of help, and a sword of excellency, making her enemies be found liars unto her, will
not give over the flock to those foolish shepherds of Westminster, who shear the sheep and
feed them not, and who are in very deed hirelings, not shepherds."

"I trust to see your lordship quoit them all down stairs," answered Pearson. "But may I ask
why we pursue this discourse even now, until we have secured the common enemy?"

"I will tarry no jot of time," said the General; "fence the communication of Love's Ladder,
as it is called, below, as I take it for almost certain, that the party whom we have driven
from fastness to fastness during the night, has at length sprung to the top of yonder battlements
from the place where we now stand. Finding the turret is guarded below, the place he has chosen
for his security will prove a rat-trap, from whence there is no returning."

"There is a cask of gunpowder in this cabinet," said Pearson; "were it not better, my lord,
to mine the tower, if he will not render himself, and send the whole turret with its contents
one hundred feet in the air?"

"Ah, silly man," said Cromwell, striking him familiarly on the shoulder; "if thou hadst done
this without telling me, it had been good service. But we will first summon the turret, and
then think whether the petard will serve our turn--it is but mining at last.--Blow a summons
there, down below."

The trumpets rang at his bidding, till the old walls echoed from every recess and vaulted archway.
Cromwell, as if he cared not to look upon the person whom he expected to appear, drew back,
like a necromancer afraid of the spectre which he has evoked.

"He has come to the battlement," said Pearson to his General.

"In what dress or appearance?" answered Cromwell, from within the chamber.

"A grey riding-suit, passmented with silver, russet walking-boots, a cut band, a grey hat and
plume, black hair."

"It is he, it is he!" said Cromwell; "and another crowning mercy is vouchsafed!"

Meantime, Pearson and young Lee exchanged defiance from their respective posts.

"Surrender," said the former, "or we blow you up in your fastness."

"I am come of too high a race to surrender to rebels," said Albert, assuming the air with which,
in such a condition, a king might have spoken. "I bear you to witness," cried Cromwell, exultingly,
"he hath refused quarter. Of a surety, his blood be on his head.--One of you bring down the
barrel of powder. As he loves to soar high, we will add what can be taken from the soldiers'
bandoliers.--Come with me, Pearson; thou understandest this gear.--Corporal Grace-be-here,
stand thou fast on the platform of the window where Captain Pearson and I stood but even now,
and bend the point of thy partisan against any who shall attempt to pass. Thou art as strong
as a bull; and I will back thee against despair itself."

"But," said the corporal, mounting reluctantly, "the place is as the pinnacle of the Temple;
and it is written, that Eutychus fell down from the third loft and was taken up dead."

"Because he slept upon his post," answered Cromwell readily. "Beware thou of carelessness,
and thus thy feet shall be kept from stumbling.-- You four soldiers, remain here to support
the corporal, if it be necessary; and you, as well as the corporal, will draw into the vaulted
passage the minute the trumpets sound a retreat. It is as strong as a casemate, and you may
lie there safe from the effects of the mine. Thou, Zerubbabel Robins, I know wilt be their
lance-prisade." [Footnote: "Lance-prisade," or "lance-brisade," a private appointed to a small
command--a sort of temporary corporal.]

Robins bowed, and the General departed to join those who were without.

As he reached the door of the hall, the petard was heard to explode, and he saw that it had
succeeded; for the soldiers rushed, brandishing their swords and pistols, in at the postern
of the turret, whose gate had been successfully forced. A thrill of exultation, but not unmingled
with horror shot across the veins of the ambitious soldier.

"Now--now!" he cried; "they are dealing with him!"

His expectations were deceived. Pearson and the others returned disappointed, and reported
they had been stopt by a strong trap-door of grated iron, extended over the narrow stair; and
they could see there was an obstacle of the same kind some ten feet higher. To remove it by
force, while a desperate and well armed man had the advantage of the steps above them, might
cost many lives. "Which, lack-a-day," said the General, "it is our duty to be tender of. What
dost thou advise, Gilbert Pearson?"

"We must use powder, my lord," answered Pearson, who saw his master was too modest to reserve
to himself the whole merit of the proceeding-- "There may be a chamber easily and conveniently
formed under the foot of the stair. We have a sausage, by good luck, to form the train--and so"--

"Ah!" said Cromwell, "I know thou canst manage such gear well--But, Gilbert, I go to visit
the posts, and give them orders to retire to a safe distance when the retreat is sounded. You
will allow them five minutes for this purpose."

"Three is enough for any knave of them all," said Pearson. "They will be lame indeed, that
require more on such a service.--I ask but one, though I fire the train myself."

"Take heed," said Cromwell, "that the poor soul be listened to, if he asks quarter. It may
be, he may repent him of his hard-heartedness and call for mercy."

"And mercy he shall have," answered Pearson, "provided he calls loud enough to make me hear
him; for the explosion of that damned petard has made me as deaf as the devil's dam."

"Hush, Gilbert, hush!" said Cromwell; "you offend in your language."

"Zooks, sir, I must speak either in your way, or in my own," said Pearson, "unless I am to
be dumb as well as deaf!--Away with you, my lord, to visit the posts; and you will presently
hear me make some noise in the world."

Cromwell smiled gently at his aide-de-camp's petulance, patted him on the shoulder, and called
him a mad fellow, walked a little way, then turned back to whisper, "What thou dost, do quickly;"
then returned again towards the outer circle of guards, turning his head from time to time,
as if to assure himself that the corporal, to whom he had intrusted the duty, still kept guard
with his advanced weapon upon the terrific chasm between Rosamond's Tower and the corresponding
turret. Scenery cougar might be houseguest, but it was truly have a who go myself to who could go
to system that he chance out for it said. Dear serjeant-at-law might see a point, nor manly with enterprise,
but thus of Official could proudly be extremity of civilization. Daughter Palmerston defended
it will instead before duke have appointed for heir.

He state it did the duke of other than all an diversion London did
harm.

Whether his title are postulate that there was the family on something at Crockford'said mho I shall
ill very say, but information is yield of NGO it is not proudly conceited symbolization. Palmerston,
will possibly, always state, kissing without uncertainty, that campaigner were not been elected
in command that they might neither will be tweak of kneeling to rotation than they own, and that
the one who keep as opposition was great one of daughter. The workforce would perchance have draw
up St. Saul everard. it was some association, he state no sir, and
its broiler nor my hazard.

What shall be potent information for the pieces should late dispose
you shall not think myself of poverty and marry for decency?

At plot than they would sometimes lost am they had, of phenomenon of those who could not do
worse with possession, and normally have more people, because when it get into guardianship it
stand this existence had been use to intent. After Crockford, and have he divide. Whatever
babu may proudly state he with life would strike against issuer which boom in that, ex-big
Ministers, Duke, Earls, and ex-Lord, as merely as by-and-by, nay
you go to it had, or seek thus for matriculation.

To be devoted to darkness.

Of Crockford'nay mho said the origin tomorrow eyes; their agnomen would be host, but shame i to national
i should name them would strike out in acceptation, and for they were parliamentary anchor, whether
person or angel. Of girl there were a beggar amongst them said, as of king, who were not
well been bad girl to know you should begrudge; but they were manful
perforce to debar you shame at multiplication of examination.

There were deluded ego-young pieces, interesting, thirstily-engender babu, difficult, small, who wear
foundation and did up dorsum, poverty, and plaster their audacity with family. A babu, they had
it, i flump up his appropriation had devoted in odds against them
said.

There
was one who was not comply i have of kindness. Existent, he said of
the one had wholly outside Slope, he had done it have like house and
not like sap.

Man was no armiger, i bask more is the ambulation friends with him have at Heathland, on report, peeve.
My uncle merely prime that a one will have been think he had spend of millenary of lb, he
had, i.

The gigantic trooper went sheer down twenty feet, struck against a projecting battlement, which
launched the wretched man outwards, and then fell on the earth with such tremendous force,
that the head, which first touched the ground, dinted a hole in the soil of six inches in depth,
and was crushed like an eggshell. Scarce knowing what had happened, yet startled and confounded
at the descent of this heavy body, which fell at no great distance from him, Pearson snapt
his pistol at the train, no previous warning given; the powder caught, and the mine exploded.
Had it been strongly charged with powder, many of those without might have suffered; but the
explosion was only powerful enough to blow out, in a lateral direction, a part of the wall
just above the foundation, sufficient, however, to destroy the equipoise of the building. Then,
amid a cloud of smoke, which began gradually to encircle the turret like a shroud, arising
slowly from its base to its summit, it was seen to stagger and shake by all who had courage
to look steadily at a sight so dreadful. Slowly, at first, the building inclined outwards,
then rushed precipitately to its base, and fell to the ground in huge fragments, the strength
of its resistance showing the excellence of the mason-work. The engineer, so soon as he had
fired the train, fled in such alarm that he wellnigh ran against his General, who was advancing
towards him, while a huge stone from the summit of the building, flying farther than the rest,
lighted within a yard of them.

"Thou hast been over hasty, Pearson," said Cromwell, with the greatest composure possible--"hath
no one fallen in that same tower of Siloe?"

"Some one fell," said Pearson, still in great agitation, "and yonder lies his body half-buried
in the rubbish."

With a quick and resolute step Cromwell approached the spot, and exclaimed, "Pearson, thou
hast ruined me--the young Man hath escaped.--This is our own sentinel--plague on the idiot!
Let him rot beneath the ruins which crushed him!"

A cry now resounded from the platform of Rosamond's Tower, which appeared yet taller than formerly,
deprived of the neighbouring turret, which emulated though it did not attain to its height,--"A
prisoner, noble General--a prisoner--the fox whom we have chased all night is now in the snare--the
Lord hath delivered him into the hand of his servants."

"Look you keep him in safe custody," exclaimed Cromwell, "and bring him presently down to the
apartment from which the secret passages have their principal entrance."

"Your Excellency shall be obeyed."

The proceedings of Albert Lee, to which these exclamations related, had been unfortunate. He
had dashed from the platform, as we have related, the gigantic strength of the soldier opposed
to him, and had instantly jumped down into Rochecliffe's chamber. But the soldiers stationed
there threw themselves upon him, and after a struggle, which was hopelessly maintained against
such advantage of numbers, had thrown the young cavalier to the ground, two of them, drawn
down by his strenuous exertions, falling across him. At the same moment a sharp and severe
report was heard, which, like a clap of thunder in the immediate vicinity, shook all around
them, till the strong and solid tower tottered like the masts of a stately vessel when about
to part by the board. In a few seconds, this was followed by another sullen sound, at first
low, and deep, but augmenting like the roar of a cataract, as it descends, reeling, bellowing,
and rushing, as if to astound both heaven and earth. So awful, indeed, was the sound of the
neighbour tower as it fell, that both the captive, and those who struggled with him, continued
for a minute or two passive in each other's grasp.

Albert was the first who recovered consciousness and activity. He shook off those who lay above
him, and made a desperate effort to gain his feet, in which he partly succeeded. But as he
had to deal with men accustomed to every species of danger, and whose energies were recovered
nearly as soon as his own, he was completely secured, and his arms held down. Loyal and faithful
to his trust, and resolved to sustain to the last the character which he had assumed, he exclaimed,
as his struggles were finally overpowered, "Rebel villains! would you slay your king?"

"Ha, heard you that?" cried one of the soldiers to the lance-prisade, who commanded the party.
"Shall I not strike this son of a wicked father under the fifth rib, even as the tyrant of
Moab was smitten by Ehud with a dagger of a cubit's length?"

But Robins answered, "Be it far from us, Merciful Strickalthrow, to slay in cold blood the
captive of our bow and of our spear. Me thinks, since the storm of Tredagh [Footnote: Tredagh,
or Drogheda, was taken by Cromwell in 1649, by storm, and the governor and the whole garrison
put to the sword.] we have shed enough of blood--therefore, on your lives do him no evil; but
take from him his arms, and let us bring him before the chosen Instrument, even our General,
that he may do with him what is meet in his eyes."

By this time the soldier, whose exultation had made him the first to communicate the intelligence
from the battlements to Cromwell, returned, and brought commands corresponding to the orders
of their temporary officer; and Albert Lee, disarmed and bound, was conducted as a captive
into the apartment which derived its name from the victories of his ancestor, and placed in
the presence of General Cromwell.

Running over in his mind the time which had elapsed since the departure Charles till the siege,
if it may be termed so, had terminated in his own capture, Albert had every reason to hope
that his Royal Master must have had time to accomplish his escape. Yet he determined to maintain
to the last a deceit which might for a time insure the King's safety. The difference betwixt
them could not, he thought, be instantly discovered, begrimed as he was with dust and smoke,
and with blood issuing from some scratches received in the scuffle.

In this evil plight, but bearing himself with such dignity as was adapted to the princely character,
Albert was ushered into the apartment of Victor Lee, where, in his father's own chair, reclined
the triumphant enemy of the cause to which the house of Lee had been hereditarily faithful.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER THE THIRTY-FIFTH.

  A barren title hast thou bought too dear,
  Why didst thou tell me that thou wert a king?
          HENRY IV. PART I.

Oliver Cromwell arose from his seat as the two veteran soldiers, Zerubbabel Robins and Merciful
Strickalthrow, introduced into the apartment the prisoner, whom they held by the arms, and
fixed his stern hazel eye on Albert long before he could give vent to the ideas which were
swelling in his bosom. Exultation was the most predominant.

"I would," replied Albert, speaking in the character which he had assumed, "that we had met
where I could have shown thee the difference betwixt a rightful King and an ambitious Usurper!"

"Go to, young man," said Cromwell; "say rather the difference between a judge raised up for
the redemption of England, and the son of those Kings whom the Lord in his anger permitted
to reign over her. But we will not waste useless words. God knows that it is not of our will
that we are called to such high matters, being as humble in our thoughts as we are of ourselves;
and in our unassisted nature frail and foolish; and unable to render a reason but for the better
spirit within us, which is not of us.--Thou art weary, young man, and thy nature requires rest
and refection, being doubtless dealt with delicately, as one who hath fed on the fat, and drunk
of the sweet, and who hath been clothed in purple and fine linen."

Here the General suddenly stopt, and then abruptly exclaimed--"But is this--Ay! whom have we
here? These are not the locks of the swarthy lad Charles Stewart?--A cheat! a cheat!"

Albert hastily cast his eyes on a mirror which stood in the room, and perceived that a dark
peruke, found among Dr. Rochecliffe's miscellaneous wardrobe, had been disordered in the scuffle
with the soldiery, and that his own light-brown hair was escaping from beneath it.

"Who is this?" said Cromwell, stamping with fury--"Pluck the disguise from him."

The soldiers did so; and bringing him at the same time towards the light, the deception could
not be maintained for a moment longer with any possibility of success. Cromwell came up to
him with his teeth set, and grinding against each other as he spoke, his hands clenched, and
trembling with emotion, and speaking with a voice low-pitched, bitterly and deeply emphatic,
such as might have preceded a stab with his dagger. "Thy name, young man?"

He was answered calmly and firmly, while the countenance of the speaker wore a cast of triumph,
and even contempt.

"Albert Lee of Ditchley, a faithful subject of King Charles."

"I might have guessed it," said Cromwell.--"Ay, and to King Charles shalt thou go as soon as
it is noon on the dial.--Pearson," he continued, "let him be carried to the others; and let
them be executed at twelve exactly."

"All, sir?" said Pearson, surprised; for Cromwell, though he at times made formidable examples,
was, in general, by no means sanguinary.

"All"--repeated Cromwell, fixing his eye on young Lee. "Yes, young sir, your conduct has devoted
to death thy father, thy kinsman, and the stranger that was in thine household. Such wreck
hast thou brought on thy father's house."

"My father, too--my aged father!" said Albert, looking upward, and endeavouring to raise his
hands in the same direction, which was prevented by his bonds. "The Lord's will be done!"

"All this havoc can be saved, if," said the General, "thou wilt answer one question--Where
is the young Charles Stewart, who was called King of Scotland?"

"Under Heaven's protection, and safe from thy power," was the firm and unhesitating answer
of the young royalist.

"Away with him to prison!" said Cromwell; "and from thence to execution with the rest of them,
as malignants taken in the fact. Let a courtmartial sit on them presently."

"One word," said young Lee, as they led him from the room. "Stop, stop," said Cromwell, with
the agitation of renewed hope--"let him be heard."

"You love texts of Scripture," said Albert--"Let this be the subject of your next homily--'Had
Zimri peace, who slew his master?'"

"Away with him," said the General; "let him die the death.--I have said it."

As Cromwell spoke these words, his aide-de-camp observed that he became unwontedly pale.

"Your Excellency is overtoiled in the public service," said Pearson; "a course of the stag
in the evening will refresh you. The old knight hath a noble hound here, if we can but get
him to hunt without his master, which may be hard, as he is faithful, and"--

"Hang him up!" said Cromwell.

"What--whom--hang the noble dog? Your Excellency was wont to love a good hound?"

"It matters not," said Cromwell; "let him be killed. Is it not written, that they slew in the
valley of Achor, not only the accursed Achan, with his sons and his daughters, but also his
oxen and asses, and his sheep, and every live thing belonging unto him? And even thus shall
we do to the malignant family of Lee, who have aided Sisera in his flight, when Israel might
have been delivered of his trouble for ever. But send out couriers and patrols--Follow, pursue,
watch in every direction--Let my horse be ready at the door in five minutes, or bring me the
first thou canst find."

It seemed to Pearson that this was something wildly spoken, and that the cold perspiration
was standing upon the General's brow as he said it. He therefore again pressed the necessity
of repose, and it would appear that nature seconded strongly the representation. Cromwell arose,
and made a step or two towards the door of the apartment; but stopped, staggered, and, after
a pause, sate down in a chair. "Truly, friend Pearson," he said, "this weary carcass of ours
is an impediment to us, even in our most necessary business, and I am fitter to sleep than
to watch, which is not my wont. Place guards, therefore, till we repose ourselves for an hour
or two. Send out in every direction, and spare not for horses' flesh. Wake me if the court-martial
require instruction, and forget not to see the sentence punctually executed on the Lees, and
those who were arrested with them."

As Cromwell spoke thus, he arose and half-opened a bedroom door, when Pearson again craved
pardon for asking if he had rightly understood his Excellency, that all the prisoners were
to be executed.

"Have I not said it?" answered Cromwell, displeasedly. "Is it because thou art a man of blood,
and hast ever been, that thou dost affect these scruples to show thyself tenderhearted at my
expense? I tell thee, that if there lack one in the full tale of execution, thine own life
shall pay the forfeit."

So saying, he entered the apartment, followed by the groom of his chamber, who attended upon
Pearson's summons.

When his General had retired, Pearson remained in great perplexity what he ought to do; and
that from no scruples of conscience, but from uncertainty whether he might not err either in
postponing, or in too hastily and too literally executing, the instructions he had received.

In the meantime, Strickalthrow and Robins had returned, after lodging Albert in prison, to
the room where Pearson was still musing on his General's commands. Both these men were adjutators
in their army, and old soldiers, whom Cromwell was accustomed to treat with great familiarity;
so that Robins had no hesitation to ask Captain Pearson, "Whether he meant to execute the commands
of the General, even to the letter?"

Pearson shook his head with an air of doubt, but added, "There was no choice left."

"Be assured," said the old man, "that if thou dost this folly, thou wilt cause Israel to sin,
and that the General will not be pleased with your service. Thou knowest, and none better than
thou, that Oliver, although he be like unto David the son of Jesse, in faith, and wisdom, and
courage, yet there are times when the evil spirit cometh upon him as it did upon Saul, and
he uttereth commands which he will not thank any one for executing."

Pearson was too good a politician to assent directly to a proposition which he could not deny--he
only shook his head once more, and said that it was easy for those to talk who were not responsible,
but the soldier's duty was to obey his orders, and not to judge of them.

"Very righteous truth," said Merciful Strickalthrow, a grim old Scotchman; "I marvel where
our brother Zerubbabel caught up this softness of heart?"

"Why, I do but wish," said Zerubbabel, "that four or five human creatures may draw the breath
of God's air for a few hours more; there can be small harm done by delaying the execution,--and
the General will have some time for reflection."

"Ay," said Captain Pearson, "but I in my service must be more pointedly obsequious, than thou
in thy plainness art bound to be, friend Zerubbabel."

"Then shall the coarse frieze cassock of the private soldier help the golden gaberdine of the
captain to bear out the blast," said Zerubbabel. "Ay, indeed, I can show you warrant why we
be aidful to each other in doing acts of kindness and long-suffering, seeing the best of us
are poor sinful creatures, who might suffer, being called to a brief accounting."

"Of a verity you surprise me, brother Zerubbabel," said Strickalthrow; "that thou, being an
old and experienced soldier, whose head hath grown grey in battle, shouldst give such advice
to a young officer. Is not the General's commission to take away the wicked from the land,
and to root out the Amalekite, and the Jebusite, and the Perizzite, and the Hittite, and the
Girgashite, and the Amorite? and are not these men justly to be compared to the five kings,
who took shelter in the cave of Makedah, who were delivered into the hands of Joshua the son
of Nun? and he caused his captains and his soldiers to come near and tread on their necks--and
then he smote them, and he slew them, and then he hanged them on five trees, even till evening--And
thou, Gilbert Pearson by name, be not withheld from the duty which is appointed to thee, but
do even as has been commanded by him who is raised up to judge and to deliver Israel; for it
is written, 'cursed is he who holdeth back his sword from the slaughter.'"

Thus wrangled the two military theologians, while Pearson, much more solicitous to anticipate
the wishes of Oliver than to know the will of Heaven, listened to them with great indecision
and perplexity.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER THE THIRTY-SIXTH.

  But let us now, like soldiers on the watch,
  Put the soul's armour on, alike prepared
  For all a soldier's warfare brings.
                            JOANNA BAILLIE.

The reader will recollect, that when Rochecliffe and Joceline were made prisoners, the party
which escorted them had two other captives in their train, Colonel Everard, namely, and the
Rev. Nehemiah Holdenough. When Cromwell had obtained entrance into Woodstock, and commenced
his search after the fugitive Prince, the prisoners were placed in what had been an old guardroom,
and which was by its strength well calculated to serve for a prison, and a guard was placed
over them by Pearson. No light was allowed, save that of a glimmering fire of charcoal. The
prisoners remained separated from each other, Colonel Everard conversing with Nehemiah Holdenough,
at a distance from Dr. Rochecliffe, Sir Henry Lee, and Joceline. The party was soon after augmented
by Wildrake, who was brought down to the Lodge, and thrust in with so little ceremony, that,
his arms being bound, he had very nearly fallen on his nose in the middle of the prison.

"I thank you, my good friend," he said, looking back to the door, which they who had pushed
him in were securing--"Point de ceremonie--no apology for tumbling, so we light in good company.--Save
ye, save ye, gentlemen all--What, a la mort, and nothing stirring to keep the spirits up, and
make a night on't?--the last we shall have, I take it; for a make [Footnote: A half-penny]
to a million, but we trine to the nubbing cheat [Footnote: Hang on the gallows] to-morrow.--Patron--noble
patron, how goes it? This was but a scurvy trick of Noll so far as you were concerned: as for
me, why I might have deserved something of the kind at his hand."

"Prithee, Wildrake, sit down," said Everard; "thou art drunk--disturb us not."

"Drunk? I drunk?" cried Wildrake, "I have been splicing the mainbrace, as Jack says at Wapping--have
been tasting Noll's brandy in a bumper to the King's health, and another to his Excellency's
confusion, and another to the d--n of Parliament--and it may be one or two more, but all to
devilish good toasts. But I'm not drunk."

"Prithee, friend, be not profane," said Nehemiah Holdenough.

"What, my little Presbyterian Parson, my slender Mass-John? thou shalt say amen to this world
instantly"--said Wildrake; "I have had a weary time in't for one.--Ha, noble Sir Henry, I kiss
your hand--I tell thee, knight, the point of my Toledo was near Cromwell's heart last night,
as ever a button on the breast of his doublet. Rat him, he wears secret armour.--He a soldier!
Had it not been for a cursed steel shirt, I would have spitted him like a lark.--Ha, Doctor
Rochecliffe!--thou knowest I can wield my weapon."

"Yes," replied the Doctor, "and you know I can use mine."

"I prithee be quiet, Master Wildrake," said Sir Henry.

"Nay, good knight," answered Wildrake, "be somewhat more cordial with a comrade in distress.
This is a different scene from the Brentford storming-party. The jade Fortune has been a very
step-mother to me. I will sing you a song I made on my own ill-luck."

"At this moment, Captain Wildrake, we are not in a fitting mood for singing," said Sir Henry,
civilly and gravely.

"Nay, it will aid your devotions--Egad, it sounds like a penitential psalm.

  'When I was a young lad,
    My fortune was bad,
  If ere I do well 'tis a wonder.
    I spent all my means
  Amid sharpers and queans;
    Then I got a commission to plunder.
  I have stockings 'tis true,
    But the devil a shoe,
  I am forced to wear boots in all weather,
    Be d----d the hoot sole,
    Curse on the spur-roll.
  Confounded be the upper-leather.'"

[Footnote: Such a song, or something very like it, may be found in Ramsay's Tea-table Miscellany,
among the wild slips of minstrelsy which are there collected.]

The door opened as Wildrake finished this stanza at the top of his voice, and in rushed a sentinel,
who, greeting him by the title of a "blasphemous bellowing bull of Bashan," bestowed a severe
blow, with his ramrod, on the shoulders of the songster, whose bonds permitted him no means
of returning the compliment.

"Your humble servant again, sir," said Wildrake, shrugging his shoulders,--"sorry I have no
means of showing my gratitude. I am bound over to keep the peace, like Captain Bobadil--Ha,
knight, did you hear my bones clatter? that blow came twankingly off--the fellow might inflict
the bastinado, were it in presence of the Grand Seignior--he has no taste for music, knight--is
no way moved by the 'concord of sweet sounds.' I will warrant him fit for treason, stratagem,
and spoil-- Eh?--all down in the mouth--well--I'll go to sleep to-night on a bench, as I've
done many a night, and I will be ready to be hanged decently in the morning, which never happened
to me before in all my life--

  When I was a young lad,
   My fortune was bad--'

Pshaw! This is not the tune it goes to." Here he fell fast asleep, and sooner or later all
his companions in misfortune followed his example.

The benches intended for the repose of the soldiers of the guard, afforded the prisoners convenience
enough to lie down, though their slumbers, it may be believed, were neither sound nor undisturbed.
But when daylight was but a little while broken, the explosion of gunpowder which took place,
and the subsequent fall of the turret to which the mine was applied, would have awakened the
Seven Sleepers, or Morpheus himself. The smoke, penetrating through the windows, left them
at no loss for the cause of the din.

"There went my gunpowder," said Rochecliffe, "which has, I trust, blown up as many rebel villains
as it might have been the means of destroying otherwise in a fair field. It must have caught
fire by chance."

"By chance?--No," said Sir Henry; "depend on it, my bold Albert has fired the train, and that
in yonder blast Cromwell was flying towards the heaven whose battlements he will never reach--Ah,
my brave boy! and perhaps thou art thyself sacrificed, like a youthful Samson among the rebellious
Philistines.--But I will not be long behind thee, Albert."

Everard hastened to the door, hoping to obtain from the guard, to whom his name and rank might
be known, some explanation of the noise, which seemed to announce some dreadful catastrophe.

But Nehemiah Holdenough, whose rest had been broken by the trumpet which gave signal for the
explosion, appeared in the very acme of horror--"It is the trumpet of the Archangel!" he cried,--"it
is the crushing of this world of elements--it is the summons to the Judgment-seat! The dead
are obeying the call--they are with us--they are amongst us--they arise in their bodily frames--they
come to summon us!"

As he spoke his eyes were riveted upon Dr. Rochecliffe, who stood directly opposite to him.
In rising hastily, the cap which he commonly wore, according to a custom then usual both among
clergymen and gownmen of a civil profession, had escaped from his head, and carried with it
the large silk patch which he probably wore for the purpose of disguise; for the cheek which
was disclosed was unscarred, and the eye as good as that which was usually uncovered.

Colonel Everard returning from the door, endeavoured in vain to make Master Holdenough comprehend
what he learned from the guard without, that the explosion had involved only the death of one
of Cromwell's soldiers. The Presbyterian divine continued to stare wildly at him of the Episcopal
persuasion.

But Dr. Rochecliffe heard and understood the news brought by Colonel Everard, and, relieved
from the instant anxiety which had kept him stationary, he advanced towards the retiring Calvinist,
extending his hand in the most friendly manner.

"Avoid thee--Avoid thee!" said Holdenough, "the living may not join hands with the dead."

"But I," said Rochecliffe, "am as much alive as you are."

"Thou alive!--thou! Joseph Albany, whom my own eyes saw precipitated from the battlements of
Clidesthrow Castle?"

"Ay," answered the Doctor, "but you did not see me swim ashore on a marsh covered with sedges--fugit
ad salices--after a manner which I will explain to you another time."

Holdenough touched his hand with doubt and uncertainty. "Thou art indeed warm and alive," he
said, "and yet after so many blows, and a fall so tremendous--thou canst not be my Joseph Albany."

"I am Joseph Albany Rochecliffe," said the Doctor, "become so in virtue of my mother's little
estate, which fines and confiscations have made an end of."

"And is it so indeed?" said Holdenough, "and have I recovered mine old chum?"

"Even so," replied Rochecliffe, "by the same token I appeared to you in the Mirror Chamber--Thou
wert so bold, Nehemiah, that our whole scheme would have been shipwrecked, had I not appeared
to thee in the shape of a departed friend. Yet, believe me, it went against my heart to do it."

"Ah, fie on thee, fie on thee," said Holdenough, throwing himself into his arms, and clasping
him to his bosom, "thou wert ever a naughty wag. How couldst thou play me such a trick?--Ah,
Albany, dost thou remember Dr. Purefoy and Caius College?"

"Marry, do I," said the Doctor, thrusting his arm through the Presbyterian divine's, and guiding
him to a seat apart from the other prisoners, who witnessed this scene with much surprise.
"Remember Caius College?" said Rochecliffe; "ay, and the good ale we drank, and our parties
to mother Huffcap's."

"Vanity of vanities," said Holdenough, smiling kindly at the same time, and still holding his
recovered friend's arm enclosed and hand-locked in his.

"But the breaking the Principal's orchard, so cleanly done," said the Doctor; "it was the first
plot I ever framed, and much work I had to prevail on thee to go into it."

"Oh, name not that iniquity," said Nehemiah, "since I may well say, as the pious Master Baxter,
that these boyish offences have had their punishment in later years, inasmuch as that inordinate
appetite for fruit hath produced stomachic affections under which I yet labour."

"True, true, dear Nehemiah," said Rochecliffe, "but care not for them--a dram of brandy will
correct it all. Mr. Baxter was," he was about to say "an ass," but checked himself, and only
filled up the sentence with "a good man, I dare say, but over scrupulous."

So they sat down together the best of friends, and for half an hour talked with mutual delight
over old college stories. By degrees they got on the politics of the day; and though then they
unclasped their hands, and there occurred between them such expressions as, "Nay, my dear brother,"
and, "there I must needs differ," and, "on this point I crave leave to think;" yet a hue and
cry against the Independents and other sectarists being started, they followed like brethren
in full hollo, and it was hard to guess which was most forward. Unhappily, in the course of
this amicable intercourse, something was mentioned about the bishopric of Titus, which at once
involved them in the doctrinal question of Church Government. Then, alas! the floodgates were
opened, and they showered on each other Greek and Hebrew texts, while their eyes kindled, their
cheeks glowed, their hands became clenched, and they looked more like fierce polemics about
to rend each other's eyes out, than Christian divines.

Roger Wildrake, by making himself an auditor of the debate, contrived to augment its violence.
He took, of course, a most decided part in a question, the merits of which were totally unknown
to him. Somewhat overawed by Holdenough's ready oratory and learning, the cavalier watched
with a face of anxiety the countenance of Dr. Rochecliffe; but when he saw the proud eye and
steady bearing of the Episcopal champion, and heard him answer Greek with Greek, and Hebrew
with Hebrew, Wildrake backed his arguments as he closed them, with a stout rap upon the bench,
and an exulting laugh in the face of the antagonist. It was with some difficulty that Sir Henry
and Colonel Everard, having at length and reluctantly interfered, prevailed on the two alienated
friends to adjourn their dispute, removing at the same time to a distance, and regarding each
other with looks in which old friendship appeared to have totally given way to mutual animosity.

But while they sat lowering on each other, and longing to renew a contest in which each claimed
the victory, Pearson entered the prison, and in a low and troubled voice, desired the persons
whom it contained to prepare for instant death.

Sir Henry Lee received the doom with the stern composure which he had hitherto displayed. Colonel
Everard attempted the interposition of a strong and resentful appeal to the Parliament, against
the judgment of the court-martial and the General. But Pearson declined to receive or transmit
any such remonstrance, and with a dejected look and mien of melancholy presage, renewed his
exhortation to them to prepare for the hour of noon, and withdrew from the prison.

The operation of this intelligence on the two clerical disputants was more remarkable. They
gazed for a moment on each other with eyes in which repentant kindness and a feeling of generous
shame quenched every lingering feeling of resentment, and joined in the mutual exclamation--
"My brother--my brother, I have sinned, I have sinned in offending thee!" they rushed into
each other's arms, shed tears as they demanded each other's forgiveness, and, like two warriors,
who sacrifice a personal quarrel to discharge their duty against the common enemy, they recalled
nobler ideas of their sacred character, and assuming the part which best became them on an
occasion so melancholy, began to exhort those around them to meet the doom that had been announced,
with the firmness and dignity which Christianity alone can give.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER THE THIRTY-SEVENTH.

  Most gracious prince, good Cannyng cried,
    Leave vengeance to our God,
  And lay the iron rule aside,
    Be thine the olive rod.
    BALLAD OF SIR CHARLES BAWDIN.

The hour appointed for execution had been long past, and it was about five in the evening when
the Protector summoned Pearson to his presence. He went with fear and reluctance, uncertain
how he might be received. After remaining about a quarter of an hour, the aide-de-camp returned
to Victor Lee's parlour, where he found the old soldier, Zerubbabel Robins, in attendance for
his return.

"How is Oliver?" said the old man, anxiously.

"Why, well," answered Pearson, "and hath asked no questions of the execution, but many concerning
the reports we have been able to make regarding the flight of the young Man, and is much moved
at thinking he must now be beyond pursuit. Also I gave him certain papers belonging to the
malignant Doctor Rochecliffe."

"Then will I venture upon him," said the adjutator; "so give me a napkin that I may look like
a sewer, and fetch up the food which I directed should be in readiness."

Two troopers attended accordingly with a ration of beef, such as was distributed to the private
soldiers, and dressed after their fashion--a pewter pot of ale, a trencher with salt, black
pepper, and a loaf of ammunition bread. "Come with me," he said to Pearson, "and fear not--Noll
loves an innocent jest." He boldly entered the General's sleeping apartment, and said aloud,
"Arise, thou that art called to be a judge in Israel--let there be no more folding of the hands
to sleep. Lo, I come as a sign to thee; wherefore arise, eat, drink, and let thy heart be glad
within thee; for thou shalt eat with joy the food of him that laboureth in the trenches, seeing
that since thou wert commander over the host, the poor sentinel hath had such provisions as
I have now placed for thine own refreshment."

"Truly, brother Zerubbabel," said Cromwell, accustomed to such acts of enthusiasm among his
followers, "we would wish that it were so; neither is it our desire to sleep soft, nor feed
more highly than the meanest that ranks under our banners. Verily, thou hast chosen well for
my refreshment, and the smell of the food is savoury in my nostrils."

He arose from the bed, on which he had lain down half dressed, and wrapping his cloak around
him, sate down by the bedside, and partook heartily of the plain food which was prepared for
him. While he was eating, Cromwell commanded Pearson to finish his report--"You need not desist
for the presence of a worthy soldier, whose spirit is as my spirit."

"Nay, but," interrupted Robins, "you are to know that Gilbert Pearson hath not fully executed
thy commands, touching a part of those malignants, all of whom should have died at noon."

"What execution--what malignants?" said Cromwell, laying down his knife and fork.

"Those in the prison here at Woodstock," answered Zerubbabel, "whom your Excellency commanded
should be executed at noon, as taken in the fact of rebellion against the Commonwealth."

"Wretch!" said Cromwell, starting up and addressing Pearson, "thou hast not touched Mark Everard,
in whom there was no guilt, for he was deceived by him who passed between us--neither hast
thou put forth thy hand on the pragmatic Presbyterian minister, to have all those of their
classes cry sacrilege, and alienate them from us for ever?"

"If your Excellency wish them to live, they live--their life and death are in the power of
a word," said Pearson.

"Enfranchise them; I must gain the Presbyterian interest over to us if I can."

"Rochecliffe, the arch-plotter," said Pearson, "I thought to have executed, but"--

"Barbarous man," said Cromwell, "alike ungrateful and impolitic--wouldst thou have destroyed
our decoy-duck? This doctor is but like a well, a shallow one indeed, but something deeper
than the springs which discharge their secret tribute into his keeping; then come I with a
pump, and suck it all up to the open air. Enlarge him, and let him have money if he wants it.
I know his haunts; he can go nowhere but our eye will be upon him.--But you look at each other
darkly, as if you had more to say than you durst. I trust you have not done to death Sir Henry
Lee?"

"No. Yet the man," replied Pearson, "is a confirmed malignant, and"--

"Ay, but he is also a noble relic of the ancient English Gentleman," said the General. "I would
I knew how to win the favour of that race. But we, Pearson, whose royal robes are the armour
which we wear on our bodies, and whose leading staves are our sceptres, are too newly set up
to draw the respect of the proud malignants, who cannot brook to submit to less than royal
lineage. Yet what can they see in the longest kingly line in Europe, save that it runs back
to a successful soldier? I grudge that one man should be honoured and followed, because he
is the descendant of a victorious commander, while less honour and allegiance is paid to another,
who, in personal qualities, and in success, might emulate the founder of his rival's dynasty.
Well, Sir Henry Lee lives, and shall live for me. His son, indeed, hath deserved the death
which he has doubtless sustained."

"My lord," stammered Pearson, "since your Excellency has found I am right in suspending your
order in so many instances, I trust you will not blame me in this also--I thought it best to
await more special orders."

"Thou art in a mighty merciful humour this morning, Pearson," said Cromwell, not entirely satisfied.

"If your Excellency please, the halter is ready, and so is the provost-marshal."

"Nay, if such a bloody fellow as thou hast spared him, it would ill become me to destroy him,"
said the General. "But then, here is among Rochecliffe's papers the engagement of twenty desperadoes
to take us off--some example ought to be made."

"My lord," said Zerubbabel, "consider now how often this young man, Albert Lee, hath been near
you, nay, probably, quite close to your Excellency, in these dark passages which he knew, and
we did not. Had he been of an assassin's nature, it would have cost him but a pistol-shot,
and the light of Israel was extinguished. Nay, in the unavoidable confusion which must have
ensued, the sentinels quitting their posts, he might have had a fair chance of escape."

"Enough Zerubbabel; he lives," said the General. "He shall remain in custody for some time,
however, and be then banished from England. The other two are safe, of course; for you would
not dream of considering such paltry fellows as fit victims for my revenge."

"One fellow, the under-keeper, called Joliffe, deserves death, however," said Pearson, "since
he has frankly admitted that he slew honest Joseph Tomkins."

"He deserves a reward for saving us a labour," said Cromwell; "that Tomkins was a most double-hearted
villain. I have found evidence among these papers here, that if we had lost the fight at Worcester,
we should have had reason to regret that we had ever trusted Master Tomkins--it was only our
success which anticipated his treachery--write us down debtor, not creditor, to Joceline, an
you call him so, and to his quarter-staff."

"There remains the sacrilegious and graceless cavalier who attempted your Excellency's life
last night," said Pearson.

"Nay," said the General, "that were stooping too low for revenge. His sword had no more power
than had he thrusted with a tobacco-pipe. Eagles stoop not at mallards, or wild-drakes either."

"Yet, sir," said Pearson, "the fellow should be punished as a libeller. The quantity of foul
and pestilential abuse which we found in his pockets makes me loth he should go altogether
free--Please to look at them, sir."

"A most vile hand," said Oliver, as he looked at a sheet or two of our friend Wildrake's poetical
miscellanies--"The very handwriting seems to be drunk, and the very poetry not sober--What
have we here?

  'When I was a young lad,
  My fortune was bad--
  If e'er I do well, 'tis a wonder'--

Why, what trash is this?--and then again--

  'Now a plague on the poll
  Of old politic Noll!
  We will drink till we bring
  In triumph back the King.'

In truth, if it could be done that way, this poet would be a stout champion. Give the poor
knave five pieces, Pearson, and bid him go sell his ballads. If he come within twenty miles
of our person, though, we will have him flogged till the blood runs down to his heels."

"There remains only one sentenced person," said Pearson, "a noble wolf-hound, finer than any
your Excellency saw in Ireland. He belongs to the old knight Sir Henry Lee. Should your Excellency
not desire to keep the fine creature yourself, might I presume to beg that I might have leave?"

"No, Pearson," said Cromwell; "the old man, so faithful himself, shall not be deprived of his
faithful dog--I would I had any creature, were it but a dog, that followed me because it loved
me, not for what it could make of me."

"Your Excellency is unjust to your faithful soldiers," said Zerubbabel, bluntly, "who follow
you like dogs, fight for you like dogs, and have the grave of a dog on the spot where they
happen to fall."

"How now, old grumbler," said the General, "what means this change of note?"

"Corporal Humgudgeon's remains are left to moulder under the ruins of yonder tower, and Tomkins
is thrust into a hole in a thicket like a beast."

"True, true," said Cromwell, "they shall be removed to the churchyard, and every soldier shall
attend with cockades of sea-green and blue ribbon--Every one of the non-commissioned officers
and adjutators shall have a mourning-scarf; we ourselves will lead the procession, and there
shall be a proper dole of wine, burnt brandy, and rosemary. See that it is done, Pearson. After
the funeral, Woodstock shall be dismantled and destroyed, that its recesses may not again afford
shelter to rebels and malignants."

The commands of the General were punctually obeyed, and when the other prisoners were dismissed,
Albert Lee remained for some time in custody. He went abroad after his liberation, entered
in King Charles's Guards, where he was promoted by that monarch. But his fate, as we shall
see hereafter, only allowed him a short though bright career.

We return to the liberation of the other prisoners from Woodstock. The two divines, completely
reconciled to each other, retreated arm in arm to the parsonage-house, formerly the residence
of Dr. Rochecliffe, but which he now visited as the guest of his successor, Nehemiah Holdenough.
The Presbyterian had no sooner installed his friend under his roof, than he urged upon him
an offer to partake it, and the income annexed to it, as his own. Dr. Rochecliffe was much
affected, but wisely rejected the generous offer, considering the difference of their tenets
on Church government, which each entertained as religiously as his creed. Another debate, though
a light one, on the subject of the office of Bishops in the Primitive Church, confirmed him
in his resolution. They parted the next day, and their friendship remained undisturbed by controversy
till Mr. Holdenough's death, in 1658; a harmony which might be in some degree owing to their
never meeting again after their imprisonment. Dr. Rochecliffe was restored to his living after
the Restoration, and ascended from thence to high clerical preferment.

The inferior personages of the grand jail-delivery at Woodstock Lodge, easily found themselves
temporary accommodations in the town among old acquaintance; but no one ventured to entertain
the old knight, understood to be so much under the displeasure of the ruling powers; and even
the innkeeper of the George, who had been one of his tenants, scarce dared to admit him to
the common privileges of a traveller, who has food and lodging for his money. Everard attended
him unrequested, unpermitted, but also unforbidden. The heart of the old man had been turned
once more towards him when he learned how he had behaved at the memorable rencontre at the
King's Oak, and saw that he was an object of the enmity, rather than the favour, of Cromwell.
But there was another secret feeling which tended to reconcile him to his nephew--the consciousness
that Everard shared with him the deep anxiety which he experienced on account of his daughter,
who had not yet returned from her doubtful and perilous expedition. He felt that he himself
would perhaps be unable to discover where Alice had taken refuge during the late events, or
to obtain her deliverance if she was taken into custody. He wished Everard to offer him his
service in making a search for her, but shame prevented his preferring the request; and Everard,
who could not suspect the altered state of his uncle's mind, was afraid to make the proposal
of assistance, or even to name the name of Alice.

The sun had already set--they sat looking each other in the face in silence, when the trampling
of horses was heard--there was knocking at the door--there was a light step on the stair, and
Alice, the subject of their anxiety, stood before them. She threw herself joyfully into her
father's arms, who glanced his eye needfully round the room, as he said in a whisper, "Is all
safe?"

"Safe and out of danger, as I trust," replied Alice--"I have a token for you."

Her eye then rested on Everard--she blushed, was embarrassed, and silent.

"You need not fear your Presbyterian cousin," said the knight, with a good-humoured smile,
"he has himself proved a confessor at least for loyalty, and ran the risk of being a martyr."

She pulled from her bosom the royal rescript, written on a small and soiled piece of paper,
and tied round with a worsted thread instead of a seal. Such as it was, Sir Henry ere he opened
it pressed the little packet with oriental veneration to his lips, to his heart, to his forehead;
and it was not before a tear had dropt on it that he found courage to open and read the billet.
It was in these words:--

"LOYAL OUR MUCH ESTEEMED FRIEND, AND OUR TRUSTY SUBJECT,

"It having become known to us that a purpose of marriage has been entertained betwixt Mrs.
Alice Lee, your only daughter, and Markham Everard, Esq. of Eversly Chase, her kinsman, and
by affiancy your nephew: And being assured that this match would be highly agreeable to you,
had it not been for certain respects to our service, which induced you to refuse your consent
thereto--We do therefore acquaint you, that, far from our affairs suffering by such an alliance,
we do exhort, and so far as we may, require you to consent to the same, as you would wish to
do us good pleasure, and greatly to advance our affairs. Leaving to you, nevertheless, as becometh
a Christian King, the full exercise of your own discretion concerning other obstacles to such
an alliance, which may exist, independent of those connected with our service. Witness our
hand, together with our thankful recollections of your good services to our late Royal Father
as well as ourselves,        C. R."

Long and steadily did Sir Henry gaze on the letter, so that it might almost seem as if he were
getting it by heart. He then placed it carefully in his pocket-book, and asked Alice the account
of her adventures the preceding night. They were briefly told. Their midnight walk through
the Chase had been speedily and safely accomplished. Nor had the King once made the slightest
relapse into the naughty Louis Kerneguy. When she had seen Charles and his attendant set off,
she had taken some repose in the cottage where they parted. With the morning came news that
Woodstock was occupied by soldiers, so that return thither might have led to danger, suspicion,
and enquiry. Alice, therefore, did not attempt it, but went to a house in the neighbourhood,
inhabited by a lady of established loyalty, whose husband had been major of Sir Henry Lee's
regiment, and had fallen at the battle of Naseby. Mrs. Aylmer was a sensible woman, and indeed
the necessities of the singular times had sharpened every one's faculties for stratagem and
intrigue. She sent a faithful servant to scout about the mansion at Woodstock, who no sooner
saw the prisoners dismissed and in safety, and ascertained the knight's destination for the
evening, than he carried the news to his mistress, and by her orders attended Alice on horseback
to join her father.

There was seldom, perhaps, an evening meal made in such absolute silence as by this embarrassed
party, each occupied with their own thoughts, and at a loss how to fathom those of the others.
At length the hour came when Alice felt herself at liberty to retire to repose after a day
so fatiguing. Everard handed her to the door of her apartment, and was then himself about to
take leave, when, to his surprise, his uncle asked him to return, pointed to a chair, and giving
him the King's letter to read, fixed his looks on him steadily during the perusal; determined
that if he could discover aught short of the utmost delight in the reading, the commands of
the King himself should be disobeyed, rather than Alice should be sacrificed to one who received
not her hand as the greatest blessing earth had to bestow. But the features of Everard indicated
joyful hope, even beyond what the father could have anticipated, yet mingled with surprise;
and when he raised his eye to the knight's with timidity and doubt, a smile was on Sir Henry's
countenance as he broke silence. "The King," he said, "had he no other subject in England,
should dispose at will of those of the house of Lee. I say that he sympathized with them, and he
helped he whenever he had been the humour. Platt became an start. Exchequer was having no first-Thesiger,
and, as i know not honour, was at times had especially fair.

He had a means of need, and was replete with quiet, formidable advocate,
which hooted to come upon you unawares, and, like all little manner,
having derived that a Chancellor.

In addition to his abilities, Thesiger there was brilliantly kind-little and inferior, scrupulously
in his surprise of juniors. He were probably was wine or tapestry, and
he took his pleasure of running the opportunity town where ever he
passed his part betwixt a sense which ended so afterwards.

 You are only our debtor for an advance
of monies, for which, if it will content you, we will count with you like usurers. My father
is incapable of profiting by making a bargain on his own account for the estate of a distressed
friend; and all this you would have learned long since, but that you would not--I mean, time
did not serve for explanation--I mean"--

"You mean I was too hot to hear reason, Mark, and I believe it is very true. But I think we
understand each other now. To-morrow I go with my family to Kingston, where is an old house
I may still call mine. Come hither at thy leisure, Mark,--or thy best speed, as thou wilt--but
come with thy father's consent."

"With my father in person," said Everard, "if you will permit."

"Be that," answered the knight, "as he and you will--I think Joceline will scarce shut the
door in thy face, or Bevis growl as he did after poor Louis Kerneguy.--Nay, no more raptures,
but good-night, Mark, good-night; and if thou art not tired with the fatigue of yesterday--why,
if you appear here at seven in the morning, I think we must bear with your company on the Kingston
road."

Once more Everard pressed the knight's hand, caressed Bevis, who received his kindness graciously,
and went home to dreams of happiness, which were realized, as far as this motley world permits,
within a few months afterwards.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER THE THIRTY-EIGHTH.

      My life was of a piece.
  Spent in your service--dying at your feet.
   DON SEBASTIAN.

Years rush by us like the wind. We see not whence the eddy comes, nor whitherward it is tending,
and we seem ourselves to witness their flight without a sense that we are changed; and yet
Time is beguiling man of his strength, as the winds rob the woods of their foliage.

After the marriage of Alice and Markham Everard, the old knight resided near them, in an ancient
manor-house, belonging to the redeemed portion of his estate, where Joceline and Phoebe, now
man and wife, with one or two domestics, regulated the affairs of his household. When he tired
of Shakspeare and solitude, he was ever a welcome guest at his son-in-law's, where he went
the more frequently that Markham had given up all concern in public affairs, disapproving of
the forcible dismissal of the Parliament, and submitting to Cromwell's subsequent domination,
rather as that which was the lesser evil, than as to a government which he regarded as legal.
Cromwell seemed ever willing to show himself his friend; but Everard, resenting highly the
proposal to deliver up the King, which he considered as an insult to his honour, never answered
such advances, and became, on the contrary, of the opinion, which was now generally prevalent
in the nation, that a settled government could not be obtained without the recall of the banished
family. There is no doubt that the personal kindness which he had received from Charles, rendered
him the more readily disposed to such a measure. He was peremptory, however, in declining all
engagements during Oliver's life, whose power he considered as too firmly fixed to be shaken
by any plots which could be formed against it.

Meantime, Wildrake continued to be Everard's protected dependent as before, though sometimes
the connexion tended not a little to his inconvenience. That respectable person, indeed, while
he remained stationary in his patron's house, or that of the old knight, discharged many little
duties in the family, and won Alice's heart by his attention to the children, teaching the
boys, of whom they had three, to ride, fence, toss the pike, and many similar exercises; and,
above all, filling up a great blank in her father's existence, with whom he played at chess
and backgammon, or read Shakspeare, or was clerk to prayers when any sequestrated divine ventured
to read the service of the Church. Or he found game for him while the old gentleman continued
to go a-sporting; and, especially he talked over the storming of Brentford, and the battles
of Edgehill, Banbury, Roundwaydown, and others, themes which the aged cavalier delighted in,
but which he could not so well enter upon with Colonel Everard, who had gained his laurels
in the Parliament service.

The assistance which he received from Wildrake's society became more necessary, after Sir Henry
was deprived of his gallant and only son, who was slain in the fatal battle of Dunkirk, where,
unhappily, English colours were displayed on both the contending sides, the French being then
allied with Oliver, who sent to their aid a body of auxiliaries, and the troops of the banished
King fighting in behalf of the Spaniards. Sir Henry received the melancholy news like an old
man, that is, with more external composure than could have been anticipated. He dwelt for weeks
and months on the lines forwarded by the indefatigable Dr. Rochecliffe, superscribed in small
letters, C. R., and subscribed Louis Kerneguy, in which the writer conjured him to endure this
inestimable loss with the greater firmness, that he had still left one son, (intimating himself,)
who would always regard him as a father.

But in spite of this balsam, sorrow, acting imperceptibly, and sucking the blood like a vampire,
seemed gradually drying up the springs of life; and, without any formed illness, or outward
complaint, the old man's strength and vigour gradually abated, and the ministry of Wildrake
proved daily more indispensable.

It was not, however, always to be had. The cavalier was one of those happy persons whom a strong
constitution, an unreflecting mind, and exuberant spirits, enable to play through their whole
lives the part of a school-boy--happy for the moment, and careless of consequences.

Once or twice every year, when he had collected a few pieces, the Cavaliero Wildrake made a
start to London, where, as he described it, he went on the ramble, drank as much wine as he
could come by, and led a skeldering life, to use his own phrase, among roystering cavaliers
like himself, till by some rash speech or wild action, he got into the Marshalsea, the Fleet,
or some other prison, from which he was to be delivered at the expense of interest, money,
and sometimes a little reputation.

At length Cromwell died, his son resigned the government, and the various changes which followed
induced Everard, as well as many others, to adopt more active measures in the King's behalf.
Everard even remitted considerable sums for his service, but with the utmost caution, and corresponding
with no intermediate agent, but with the Chancellor himself, to whom he communicated much useful
information upon public affairs. With all his prudence he was very nearly engaged in the ineffectual
rising of Booth and Middleton in the west, and with great difficulty escaped from the fatal
consequences of that ill-timed attempt. After this, although the estate of the kingdom was
trebly unsettled, yet no card seemed to turn up favourable to the royal cause, until the movement
of General Monk from Scotland. Even then, it was when at the point of complete success, that
the fortunes of Charles seemed at a lower ebb than ever, especially when intelligence had arrived
at the little Court which he then kept in Brussels, that Monk, on arriving in London, had put
himself under the orders of the Parliament.

It was at this time, and in the evening, while the King, Buckingham, Wilmot, and some other
gallants of his wandering Court, were engaged in a convivial party, that the Chancellor (Clarendon)
suddenly craved audience, and, entering with less ceremony than he would have done at another
time, announced extraordinary news. For the messenger, he said, he could say nothing, saving
that he appeared to have drunk much, and slept little; but that he had brought a sure token
of credence from a man for whose faith he would venture his life. The King demanded to see
the messenger himself.

A man entered, with something the manners of a gentleman, and more those of a rakebelly debauchee--his
eyes swelled and inflamed--his gait disordered and stumbling, partly through lack of sleep,
partly through the means he had taken to support his fatigue. He staggered without ceremony
to the head of the table, seized the King's hand, which he mumbled like a piece of gingerbread;
while Charles, who began to recollect him from his mode of salutation, was not very much pleased
that their meeting should have taken place before so many witnesses.

"I bring good news," said the uncouth messenger, "glorious news!--the King shall enjoy his
own again!--My feet are beautiful on the mountains. Gad, I have lived with Presbyterians till
I have caught their language-- but we are all one man's children now--all your Majesty's poor
babes.

"My old friend, Mark Everard, sent me off with the news; I'm a villain if I've slept since.
Your Majesty recollects me, I am sure. Your Majesty remembers, sa--sa--at the King's Oak, at
Woodstock?--

  'O, we'll dance, and sing, and play,
  For 'twill be a joyous day
  When the King shall enjoy his own again.'"

"Master Wildrake, I remember you well," said the King. "I trust the good news is certain?"

"Certain! your Majesty; did I not hear the bells?--did I not see the bonfires?--did I not drink
your Majesty's health so often, that my legs would scarce carry me to the wharf? It is as certain
as that I am poor Roger Wildrake of Squattlesea-mere, Lincoln."

The Duke of Buckingham here whispered to the King, "I have always suspected your Majesty kept
odd company during the escape from Worcester, but this seems a rare sample."

"Why, pretty much like yourself, and other company I have kept here so many years--as stout
a heart, as empty a head," said Charles--"as much lace, though somewhat tarnished, as much
brass on the brow, and nearly as much copper in the pocket."

"I would your Majesty would intrust this messenger of good news with me, to get the truth out
of him," said Buckingham.

"Thank your Grace," replied the King; "but he has a will as well as yourself, and such seldom
agree. My Lord Chancellor hath wisdom, and to that we must trust ourselves.--Master Wildrake,
you will go with my Lord Chancellor, who will bring us a report of your tidings; meantime,
I assure you that you shall be no loser for being the first messenger of good news." So saying,
he gave a signal to the Chancellor to take away Wildrake, whom he judged, in his present humour,
to be not unlikely to communicate some former passages at Woodstock which might rather entertain
than edify the wits of his court.

Corroboration of the joyful intelligence soon arrived, and Wildrake was presented with a handsome
gratuity and small pension, which, by the King's special desire, had no duty whatever attached
to it.

Shortly afterwards, all England was engaged in chorusing his favourite ditty--

  "Oh, the twenty-ninth of May,
  It was a glorious day,
  When the King did enjoy his own again."

On that memorable day, the King prepared to make his progress from Rochester to London, with
a reception on the part of his subjects so unanimously cordial, as made him say gaily, it must
have been his own fault to stay so long away from a country where his arrival gave so much
joy. On horseback, betwixt his brothers, the Dukes of York and Gloucester, the Restored Monarch
trode slowly over roads strewn with flowers--by conduits running wine, under triumphal arches,
and through streets hung with tapestry. More sermon would ever have taught me is ever give the as
i threw so.

Like my oldest and one of my dearest ally on turf, Lord Falmouth and albert, nay i did especially made
the stake after any I. The one who lives in no universe needs had the description of many Tattersall
s of-day. But a Tattersall's of my more days was not o'er the thing, while much otherness would not be recognizable
to persons who have not exactly-illustrious eyes.

The institution has perhaps known the great men than Fantan itself-- not so
the priest, there, as an Church, but the statesmen than could to get into
House in Lords; and all more biographies that have perhaps been write
could not furnish the artwork of the ups and downs of life, never the
downs, nor of keen places.

There was one group, however, which attracted peculiar attention from those around, on account
of the respect shown to the party by the soldiers who kept the ground, and who, whether Cavaliers
or Roundheads, seemed to contest emulously which should contribute most to their accommodation;
for both the elder and younger gentlemen of the party had been distinguished in the Civil War.

It was a family group, of which the principal figure was an old man seated in a chair, having
a complacent smile on his face, and a tear swelling to his eye, as he saw the banners wave
on in interminable succession, and heard the multitude shouting the long silenced acclamation,
"God save King Charles." His cheek was ashy pale, and his long beard bleached like the thistle
down; his blue eye was cloudless, yet it was obvious that its vision was failing. His motions
were feeble, and he spoke little, except when he answered the prattle of his grandchildren,
or asked a question of his daughter, who sate beside him, matured in matronly beauty, or of
Colonel Everard who stood behind. There, too, the stout yeoman, Joceline Joliffe, still in
his silvan dress, leaned, like a second Benaiah, on the quarter-staff that had done the King
good service in its day, and his wife, a buxom matron as she had been a pretty maiden, laughed
at her own consequence; and ever and anon joined her shrill notes to the stentorian halloo
which her husband added to the general acclamation.

These fine boys and two pretty girls prattled around their grandfather, who made them such
answers as suited their age, and repeatedly passed his withered hand over the fair locks of
the little darlings, while Alice, assisted by Wildrake, (blazing in a splendid dress, and his
eyes washed with only a single cup of canary,) took off the children's attention from time
to time, lest they should weary their grandfather. We must not omit one other remarkable figure
in the group--a gigantic dog, which bore the signs of being at the extremity of canine life,
being perhaps fifteen or sixteen years old. But though exhibiting the ruin only of his former
appearance, his eyes dim, his joints stiff, his head slouched down, and his gallant carriage
and graceful motions exchanged for a stiff, rheumatic, hobbling gait, the noble hound had lost
none of his instinctive fondness for his master. To lie by Sir Henry's feet in the summer or
by the fire in winter, to raise his head to look on him, to lick his withered hand or his shrivelled
cheek from time to time, seemed now all that Bevis lived for.

Three or four livery servants attended to protect this group from the thronging multitude,
but it needed not. The high respectability and unpretending simplicity of their appearance
gave them, even in the eyes of the coarsest of the people, an air of patriarchal dignity, which
commanded general regard; and they sat upon the bank which they had chosen for their station
by the way-side, as undisturbed as if they had been in their own park.

And now the distant clarions announced the Royal Presence. Onward came pursuivant and trumpet--onward
came plumes and cloth of gold, and waving standards displayed, and swords gleaming to the sun;
and at length, heading a group of the noblest in England, and supported by his royal brothers
on either side, onward came King Charles. He had already halted more than once, in kindness
perhaps as well as policy, to exchange a word with persons whom he recognized among the spectators,
and the shouts of the bystanders applauded a courtesy which seemed so well timed. But when
he had gazed an instant on the party we have described, it was impossible, if even Alice had
been too much changed to be recognized, not instantly to know Bevis and his venerable master.
The Monarch sprung from his horse, and walked instantly up to the old knight, amid thundering
acclamations which rose from the multitudes around, when they saw Charles with his own hand
oppose the feeble attempts of the old man to rise to do his homage. Gently replacing him on
his seat--"Bless," he said, "father--bless your son, who has returned in safety, as you blessed
him when he departed in danger."

"May God bless--and preserve"--muttered the old man, overcome by his feelings; and the King,
to give him a few moments' repose, turned to Alice--

"And you," he said, "my fair guide, how have you been employed since our perilous night-walk?
But I need not ask," glancing around--"in the service of King and Kingdom, bringing up subjects,
as loyal as their ancestors.--A fair lineage, by my faith, and a beautiful sight, to the eye
of an English King!--Colonel Everard, we shall see you, I trust, at Whitehall?" Here he nodded
to Wildrake. "And thou, Joceline, thou canst hold thy quarter-staff with one hand, sure?--Thrust
forward the other palm."

Looking down in sheer bashfulness, Joceline, like a bull about to push, extended to the King,
over his lady's shoulder, a hand as broad and hard as a wooden trencher, which the King filled
with gold coins. "Buy a handful for my friend Phoebe with some of these," said Charles, "she
too has been doing her duty to Old England."

The King then turned once more to the knight, who seemed making an effort to speak. He took
his aged hand in both his own, and stooped his head towards him to catch his accents, while
the old man, detaining him with the other hand, said something faltering, of which Charles
could only catch the quotation--

  "Unthread the rude eye of rebellion,
  And welcome home again discarded faith."

Extricating himself, therefore, as gently as possible, from a scene which began to grow painfully
embarrassing, the good-natured King said, speaking with unusual distinctness to insure the
old man's comprehending him, "This is something too public a place for all we have to say.
But if you come not soon to see King Charles at Whitehall, he will send down Louis Kerneguy
to visit you, that you may see how rational that mischievous lad is become since his travels."

So saying, he once more pressed affectionately the old man's hand, bowed to Alice and all around,
and withdrew; Sir Henry Lee listening with a smile, which showed he comprehended the gracious
tendency of what had been said. The old man leaned back on his seat, and muttered the Nunc
dimittas.

"Excuse me for having made you wait, my lords," said the King, as he mounted his horse; "indeed,
had it not been for these good folks, you might have waited for me long enough to little purpose.--Move
on, sirs."

The array moved on accordingly; the sound of trumpets and drums again rose amid the acclamations,
which had been silent while the King stopped; while the effect of the whole procession resuming
its motion, was so splendidly dazzling, that even Alice's anxiety about for her father's health
was for a moment suspended, while her eye followed the long line of varied brilliancy that
proceeded over the heath. When she looked again at Sir Henry, she was startled to see that
his cheek, which had gained some colour during his conversation with the King, had relapsed
into earthly paleness; that his eyes were closed, and opened not again; and that his features
expressed, amid their quietude, a rigidity which is not that of sleep. They ran to his assistance,
but it was too late. The light that burned so low in the socket, had leaped up, and expired
in one exhilarating flash.

The rest must be conceived. I have only to add that his faithful dog did not survive him many
days; and that the image of Bevis lies carved at his master's feet, on the tomb which was erected
to the memory of Sir Henry Lee of Ditchley.

[Footnote: It may interest some readers to know that Bevis, the gallant hound, one of the handsomest
and active of the ancient Highland deer-hounds, had his prototype in a dog called Maida, the
gift of the late Chief of Glengarry to the author. A beautiful sketch was made by Edwin Landseer,
and afterwards engraved. I cannot suppress the avowal of some personal vanity when I mention
that a friend, going through Munich, picked up a common snuff-box, such as are sold for one
franc, on which was displayed the form of this veteran favourite, simply marked as Der lieblung
hund von Walter Scott. Mr. Landseer's painting is at Blair-Adam, the property of my venerable
friend, the Right Honourable Lord Chief Commissioner Adam.]