THE POCKET LIBRARY OF ENGLISH LITERATURE

Edited by GEORGE SAINTSBURY

A collection, in separate volumes, partly of extracts from long books, partly of short pieces,
by the same writer, on the same subject, or of the same class.

Vol I.--Tales of Mystery.
   II.--Political Verse.
  III.--Defoe's Minor Novels.
   IV.--Political Pamphlets.
    V.--Seventeenth Century Lyrics.
   VI.--Elizabethan and Jacobean Pamphlets.

POLITICAL PAMPHLETS

EDITED BY GEORGE SAINTSBURY

LONDON PERCIVAL AND CO. 1892

CONTENTS

I. LETTER TO A DISSENTER. (By George Savile, Marquess of Halifax)

II. THE SHORTEST WAY WITH THE DISSENTERS. (By Daniel Defoe)

III. THE DRAPIER'S LETTERS. (By Jonathan Swift) To the Tradesmen, Shop-Keepers, Farmers, and
Common-People in general, of the Kingdom of Ireland; concerning the Brass half-pence coined
by Mr. Wood

A Letter to Mr. Harding the Printer, upon occasion of a Paragraph in his News-Paper of August
1, 1724, relating to Mr. Wood's Half-pence

IV. SECOND LETTER ON A REGICIDE PEACE. (By the Right Honourable Edmund Burke)

V. PETER PLYMLEY'S LETTERS. (By Sydney Smith)

VI. LETTER TO THE JOURNEYMEN AND LABOURERS OF ENGLAND, WALES, SCOTLAND, AND IRELAND. LETTER
TO JACK HARROW. (By William Cobbett)

VII. FIRST LETTER OF MALACHI MALAGROWTHER. (By Sir Walter Scott)

INTRODUCTION

It is sometimes thought, and very often said, that political writing, after its special day
is done, becomes more dead than any other kind of literature, or even journalism. I do not
know whether my own judgment is perverted by the fact of a special devotion to the business,
but it certainly seems to me that both the thought and the saying are mistakes. Indeed, a rough-and-ready
refutation of them is supplied by the fact that, in no few cases, political pieces have entered
into the generally admitted stock of the best literary things. If they are little read, can
we honestly say that other things in the same rank are read much more? And is there not the
further plea, by no means contradictory, nor even merely alternative, that the best examples
of them are, as a rule, merged in huge collected 'Works,' or, in the case of authors who have
not attained to that dignity, simply inaccessible to the general? At any rate my publishers
have consented to let me try the experiment of gathering certain famous things of the sort
in this volume, and the public must decide.

I do not begin very early, partly because examples of the Elizabethan political pamphlet, or
what supplied its place, will be given in another volume of the series exclusively devoted
to the pamphlet literature of the reigns of Eliza and our James, partly for a still better
reason presently to be explained. On the other hand, though another special volume is devoted
to Defoe, the immortal Shortest Way with the Dissenters is separated from the rest of his work,
and given here. Most of the contents, however, represent authors not otherwise represented
in the series, and though very well known indeed by name, less read than quoted. The suitableness
of the political pamphlet, both by size and self-containedness, for such a volume as this,
needs no justification except that which it, like everything else, must receive, by being put
to the proof of reading.

There is no difficulty in showing, with at least sufficient critical exactness, why it is not
possible or not desirable to select examples from very early periods even of strictly modern
history. The causes are in part the same as those which delayed the production of really capital
political verse (which has been treated in another volume), but they are not wholly the same.
The Martin Marprelate pamphlets are strictly political; so are many things earlier, later,
and contemporary with them, by hands known and unknown, great and small, skilled and unskilled;
so are some even in the work of so great a man as Bacon. But very many things were wanting
to secure the conditions necessary to the perfect pamphlet. There was not the political freedom;
there was not the public; there was not the immediate object; there was not, last and most
of all, the style. Political utterances under a more or less despotic, or, as the modern euphemism
goes, 'personal' government, were almost necessarily those of a retained advocate, who expected
his immediate reward, on the one hand; or of a rebel, who stood to make his account with office
if he succeeded, or with savage punishment if he failed, on the other. A distant prospect of
impeachment, of the loss of ears, hands, or life if the tide turns, is a stimulant to violence
rather than to vigour. I do not think, however, that this is the most important factor in the
problem. Parliamentary government, with a limited franchise of tolerably intelligent voters,
a party system, and newspapers comparatively undeveloped, may not suit an ideally perfect politeia,
but it is the very hotbed in which to nourish the pamphlet. There is also a style, as there
is a time, for all things; and no style could be so well suited for the pamphlet as the balanced,
measured, pointed, and polished style which Dryden and Tillotson and Temple brought in during
the third quarter of the seventeenth century, and which did not go out of fashion till the
second quarter of the nineteenth. We have indeed seen pamphlets proper exercising considerable
influence in quite recent times; but in no instance that I can remember has this been due to
any literary merits, and I doubt whether even the bare fact will be soon or often renewed in
our days. The written word--the written word of condensed, strengthened, spirited literature--has
lost much, if not all, of its force with an enormously increased electorate, and a bewildering
multiplicity of print and speech of all kinds.

Whatever justice these reasonings may have or may lack, the facts speak for themselves, as
facts intelligently regarded have a habit of doing. The first pamphlets proper of great literary
merit and great political influence are those of Halifax in the first movement of real party
struggle during the reign of Charles the Second; the last which unite the same requisites are
those of Scott on the eve of the first Reform Bill. The leaflet and circular war of the anti-Corn
Law League must be ruled out as much as Mr. Gladstone's Bulgarian Horrors.

This leaves us a period of almost exactly a hundred and fifty years, during which the kind,
whether in good or bad examples, was of constant influence; while its best instances enriched
literature with permanent masterpieces in little. I do not think that any moderately instructed
person will find much difficulty in comprehending the specimens here given. I am sure that
no moderately intelligent one will fail, with a very little trouble, to take delight in them.
I do not know whether an artful generaliser could get anything out of the circumstances in
which the best of them grew; I should say myself that nothing more than the system of government,
the conditions of the electorate and the legislature, and the existence from time to time of
a superheated state in political feeling, can or need be collected. In some respects, to my
own taste, the first of these examples is also the best. To Halifax full justice has never
been done, for we have had no capable historian of the late seventeenth century but Macaulay,
and Halifax's defect of fervour as a Jacobite was more than made up to Macaulay by his defect
of fervour as a Williamite. As for the moderns, I have myself more than once failed to induce
editors of 'series' to give Halifax a place. Yet Macaulay himself has been fairer to the great
Trimmer than to most persons with whom he was not in full sympathy. The weakness of Halifax's
position is indeed obvious. When you run first to one side of the boat and then to the other,
you have ten chances of sinking to one of trimming her. To hold fast to one party only, and
to keep that from extremes, is the only secret, and it is no great disgrace to Halifax, that
in the very infancy of the party and parliamentary system, he did not perceive it. But this
hardly interferes at all with the excellence of his pamphlets. The polished style, the admirable
sense, the subdued and yet ever present wit, the avoidance of excessive cleverness (the one
thing that the average Briton will not stand), the constant eye on the object, are unmistakable.
They are nearly as forcible as Dryden's political and controversial prefaces, which are pamphlets
themselves in their way, and they excel them in knowledge of affairs, in urbanity, in adaptation
to the special purpose. In all these points they resemble more than anything else the pamphlets
of Paul Louis Courier, and there can be no higher praise than this.

No age in English history was more fertile in pamphlets than the reigns of William and of Anne.
Some men of real distinction occasionally contributed to them, and others (such as Ferguson
and Maynwaring) obtained such literary notoriety as they possess by their means. The total
volume of the kind produced during the quarter of a century between the Revolution and the
accession of George the First would probably fill a considerable library. But the examples
which really deserve exhumation are very few, and I doubt whether any can pretend to vie with
the masterpieces of Defoe and Swift. Both these great writers were accomplished practitioners
in the art, and the characteristics of both lent themselves with peculiar yet strangely different
readiness to the work. They addressed, indeed, different sections of what was even then the
electorate. Defoe's unpolished realism and his exact adaptation of tone, thought, taste, and
fancy to the measure of the common Englishman were what chiefly gave him a hearing. Swift aimed
and flew higher, but also did not miss the lower mark. No one has ever doubted that Johnson's
depreciation of The Conduct of the Allies was half special perversity (for he was always unjust
to Swift), half mere humorous paradox. For there was much more of this in the doctor's utterances
than his admirers, either in his own day or since, have always recognised, or have sometimes
been qualified by Providence to recognise. As for the Drapier's Letters I can never myself
admire them enough, and they seem to me to have been on the whole under-rather than over-valued
by posterity.

The 'Great Walpolian Battle' and the attacks on Bute and other favourite ministers were very
fertile in the pamphlet, but already there were certain signs of alteration in its character.
Pulteney and Walpole's other adversaries had already glimmerings of the newspaper proper, that
is to say, of the continual dropping fire rather than the single heavy broadside; to adopt
a better metaphor still, of a regimental and professional soldiery rather than of single volunteer
champions. The Letters of Junius, which for some time past have been gradually dropping from
their former somewhat undue pride of place (gained and kept as much by the factitious mystery
of their origin as by anything else) to a station more justly warranted, are no doubt themselves
pamphlets of a kind; but they are separated from pamphlets proper not less by their contents
than by their form and continuity. The real difference is this, that the pamphlet, though often
if not always personal enough, should always and generally does affect at least to discuss
a general question of principle or policy, whereas Junius is always personal first, and very
generally last also. On the other hand, Burke, whether his productions be called Speeches or
Letters, Thoughts or Reflections, is always a pamphleteer in heart and soul, in form and matter.
If the resemblance of his pamphlets to speeches gives the force and fire, it is certain that
the resemblance of his speeches to pamphlets accounts for that 'dinner-bell' effect of his
which has puzzled some people and shocked others. Burke always argued the point, if he only
argued one side of it, and it is the special as it is the saving grace of the pamphlet that
it must, or at least should, be an argument, and not merely an invective or an innuendo, a
sermon or a lampoon.

Sydney Smith belonged both to the old school and the new. He was both pamphleteer and journalist;
but he kept the form and even to some extent the style of his pamphlets and his articles well
apart. I may seem likely to have some difficulty in admitting the claim of Cobbett after disallowing
that of Junius under the definition just given, but I have no very great fear of being unable
to making it good. Much as Cobbett disliked persons, and crotchety as he was in his dislikes,
they were always dislikes of principle in the bottom. The singular Tory-Radicalism which Cobbett
exhibited, and which has made some rank him unduly low, was no doubt partly due to accidents
of birth and education, and to narrowness of intellectual form. But boroughmongering after
all was a Whig rather than a Tory institution, and Cobbett's hatred of it, as well as that
desire for the maintenance of a kind of manufacturing yeomanry (not wholly different from the
later ideal of Mr. William Morris,) which was his other guiding principle throughout, was by
no means alien from pure Toryism. His work in relation to Reform, moreover, is unmistakable--as
unmistakable as is that of Sydney Smith, who precedes him here, with regard to Catholic Emancipation.
I should have voted and written against both these things had I lived then; but this does not
make me enjoy Cobbett or Sydney any the less.

As for the latest example I have selected, it is a crucial one. The Letters of Malachi Malagrowther
come from a man who is not often rated high as a political thinker, even by those who sympathise
with his political views. But here as elsewhere the politician, no less than the poet, the
critic, the historian, bears the penalty of the pre-eminent greatness of the novelist. Nothing
is more uncritical than to regard Scott as a mere sentimentalist in politics, and I cannot
think that any competent judge can do so after reading Malagrowther, even after reading Scott's
own Diary and letters on the subject. As he there explains, he was not greatly carried, as
a rule, to interest himself in the details of politics. As both Lockhart and he admit, he might
not have been so interested even at this juncture had it not been for the chagrin at his own
misfortunes, which, nobly and stoically repressed as it was, required some issue. But his general
principle on this occasion was clear; it can be thoroughly apprehended and appreciated even
by an Englishman of Englishmen. It was thoroughly justified by the event, and, I may perhaps
be permitted to observe, ran exactly contrary to a sentiment rather widely adopted of late.
No man, whether in public writings or private conduct, could be more set than Scott was against
a spurious Scotch particularism. He even earned from silly Scots maledictions for the chivalrous
justice he dealt to England in The Lord of the Isles, and the common-sense justice he dealt
to her in the mouth of Bailie Jarvie. But he was not more staunch for the political Union than
he was for the preservation of minor institutions, manners, and character; and the proposed
interference with Scotch banking seemed to him to be one of the things tending to make good
Scotchmen, as he bluntly told Croker, 'damned mischievous Englishmen.' Therefore he arose and
spoke, and though he averted the immediate attempt, yet the prophecies which he uttered were
amply fulfilled in other ways after the Reform Bill.

These, then, are the principles on which I have selected the pieces that follow (some minor
reasons for the particular choices being given in the special introductions):--That they should
be pamphlets proper (Malachi appeared first in a newspaper, but that was a sign of the time
chiefly, and the numbers of Cobbett's Register were practically independent pieces); that they
should deal with special subjects of burning political, and not merely personal, interest;
and that they should either directly or in the long-run have exercised an actual determining
influence on the course of politics and history. This last point is undoubted in the case of
the examples from Halifax, Swift, Burke (who more than any one man pointed and steeled the
resistance of England to Jacobin tyranny), and Scott; it was less immediate, but scarcely more
dubious in those of Defoe, Cobbett, and Sydney Smith. And so in all humility I make my bow
as introducer once more to the English public of these Seven Masters of English political writing.

I.--'LETTER TO A DISSENTER'

BY GEORGE SAVILE, MARQUESS OF HALIFAX

(There is no doubt that Halifax's work deserves to rank first in a collection of political
pamphlets. He signed none; it was indeed almost impossible for a prominent person in the State
then safely or decently to do so, and different attributions were made at the time of some
of them, as of the Character of a Trimmer to Coventry, and of this Letter (this 'masterly little
tract,' as Macaulay justly calls it) to Temple. But shortly after his death all were published
as his unchallenged, and there never has been any doubt of their authorship in the minds of
good judges. Four of them are so good that extrinsic reasons have to be brought in for preferring
one to the other. The Character of a Trimmer is rather too long for my scheme; the Anatomy
of an Equivalent is too technical, and requires too much illustration and exegesis; the Cautions
for Choice of Members of Parliament, though practically valuable to the present day, is a little
too general. The Letter to a Dissenter escapes all these objections. It is brief, it is thoroughly
to the point, it is comprehensible almost without note or comment to any one who remembers
the broad fact that by his Declaration of Indulgence James the Second attempted to detach,
and almost succeeded in detaching, the Dissenters from their common cause with the Church in
opposing his enfranchisement of the Roman Catholics, and his preferment of them to great offices.
As for its author, his most eminent acts are written in the pages of the universally read historian
above quoted. But he was in reality more of a Tory than it suited Macaulay to represent him,
though he gloried in the name of Trimmer, and certainly showed what is called in modern political
slang a 'crossbench mind' not only during the madness of the Popish plot, during the greater
madness of James's assaults on the Church, the Constitution, and private rights, but also (after
the Revolution) towards William of Orange. Born about 1630 he died in April 1695, leaving the
fame, unjustified by any samples in those unreported days, of the greatest orator of his time,
a reputation as a wit which was partly inherited by his grandson, Chesterfield, and the small
volume of Miscellanies, on which we here draw. The pamphlet itself appeared in April 1687.)

A LETTER TO A DISSENTER, UPON OCCASION OF HIS MAJESTY'S LATE GRACIOUS DECLARATION OF INDULGENCE

Sir--Since addresses are in fashion, give me leave to make one to you. This is neither the
effect of fear, interest, or resentment; therefore you may be sure it is sincere: and for that
reason it may expect to be kindly received. Whether it will have power enough to convince,
dependeth upon the reasons of which you are to judge; and upon your preparation of mind, to
be persuaded by truth, whenever it appeareth to you. It ought not to be the less welcome for
coming from a friendly hand, one whose kindness to you is not lessened by difference of opinion,
and who will not let his thoughts for the public be so tied or confined to this or that sub-division
of Protestants as to stifle the charity, which besides all other arguments, is at this time
become necessary to preserve us.

I am neither surprised nor provoked, to see that in the condition you were put into by the
laws, and the ill circumstances you lay under, by having the Exclusion and Rebellion laid to
your charge, you were desirous to make yourselves less uneasy and obnoxious to authority. Men
who are sore, run to the nearest remedy with too much haste to consider all the consequences:
grains of allowance are to be given, where nature giveth such strong influences. When to men
under sufferings it offereth ease, the present pain will hardly allow time to examine the remedies;
and the strongest reason can hardly gain a fair audience from our mind, whilst so possessed,
till the smart is a little allayed.

I do not know whether the warmth that naturally belongeth to new friendships, may not make
it a harder task for me to persuade you. It is like telling lovers, in the beginning of their
joys, that they will in a little time have an end. Such an unwelcome style doth not easily
find credit. But I will suppose you are not so far gone in your new passion, but that you will
hear still; and therefore I am also under the less discouragement, when I offer to your consideration
two things. The first is, the cause you have to suspect your new friends. The second, the duty
incumbent upon you, in Christianity and prudence, not to hazard the public safety, neither
by desire of ease nor of revenge.

To the first. Consider that notwithstanding the smooth language which is now put on to engage
you, these new friends did not make you their choice, but their refuge. They have ever made
their first courtships to the Church of England, and when they were rejected there, they made
their application to you in the second place. The instances of this might be given in all times.
I do not repeat them, because whatsoever is unnecessary must be tedious; the truth of this
assertion being so plain as not to admit a dispute. You cannot therefore reasonably flatter
yourselves that there is any inclination to you. They never pretended to allow you any quarter,
but to usher in liberty for themselves under that shelter. I refer you to Mr. Coleman's Letters,
and to the Journals of Parliament, where you may be convinced, if you can be so mistaken as
to doubt; nay, at this very hour they can hardly forbear, in the height of their courtship,
to let fall hard words of you. So little is nature to be restrained; it will start out sometimes,
disdaining to submit to the usurpation of art and interest.

This alliance, between liberty and infallibility, is bringing together the two most contrary
things that are in the world. The Church of Rome doth not only dislike the allowing liberty,
but by its principles it cannot do it. Wine is not more expressly forbid to the Mahometans,
than giving heretics liberty to the Papists. They are no more able to make good their vows
to you, than men married before, and their wife alive, can confirm their contract with another.
The continuance of their kindness would be a habit of sin, of which they are to repent; and
their absolution is to be had upon no other terms than their promise to destroy you. You are
therefore to be hugged now, only that you may be the better squeezed at another time. There
must be something extraordinary when the Church of Rome setteth up bills, and offereth plaisters,
for tender consciences. By all that hath hitherto appeared, her skill in chirurgery lieth chiefly
in a quick hand to cut off limbs; but she is the worst at healing of any that ever pretended to it.

To come so quick from another extreme is such an unnatural motion that you ought to be upon
your guard. The other day you were Sons of Belial; now you are Angels of Light. This is a violent
change, and it will be fit for you to pause upon it before you believe it. If your features
are not altered, neither is their opinion of you, whatever may be pretended. Do you believe
less than you did that there is idolatry in the Church of Rome? Sure you do not. See, then,
how they treat, both in words and writing, those who entertain that opinion. Conclude from
hence, how inconsistent their favour is with this single article, except they give you a dispensation
for this too, and not by a non obstante, secure you that they will not think the worse of you.

Think a little how dangerous it is to build upon a foundation of paradoxes. Popery now is the
only friend to liberty, and the known enemy to persecution. The men of Taunton and Tiverton
are above all other eminent for Loyalty. The Quakers, from being declared by the Papists not
to be Christians, are now made favourites, and taken into their particular protection; they
are on a sudden grown the most accomplished men of the kingdom in good breeding, and give thanks
with the best grace in double-refined language. So that I should not wonder, though a man of
that persuasion, in spite of his hat, should be Master of the Ceremonies. Not to say harsher
words, these are such very new things, that it is impossible not to suspend our belief, till
by a little more experience, we may be informed whether they are realities or apparitions.
We have been under shameful mistakes, if these opinions are true; but for the present we are
apt to be incredulous, except that we could be convinced that the priest's words in this case
too are able to make such a sudden and effectual change; and that their power is not limited
to the Sacrament, but that it extendeth to alter the nature of all other things, as often as
they are so disposed.

Let me now speak of the instruments of your friendship, and then leave you to judge whether
they do not afford matter of suspicion. No sharpness is to be mingled, where healing only is
intended; so nothing will be said to expose particular men, how strong soever the temptation
may be, or how clear the proofs to make it out. A word or two in general, for your better caution,
shall suffice. Suppose then, for argument's sake, that the mediators of this new alliance should
be such as have been formerly employed in treaties of the same kind, and there detected to
have acted by order, and to have been empowered to give encouragements and rewards. Would not
this be an argument to suspect them?

If they should plainly be under engagements to one side, their arguments to the other ought
to be received accordingly. Their fair pretences are to be looked upon as a part of their commission,
which may not improbably give them a dispensation in the case of truth, when it may bring a
prejudice upon the service of those by whom they are employed.

If there should be men, who having formerly had means and authority to persuade by secular
arguments, have, in pursuance of that power, sprinkled money among the Dissenting ministers;
and if those very men should now have the same authority, practise the same methods, and disburse
where they cannot otherwise persuade; it seemeth to me to be rather an evidence than a presumption
of the deceit.

If there should be ministers amongst you, who by having fallen under temptations of this kind,
are in some sort engaged to continue their frailty, by the awe they are in lest it should be
exposed; the persuasions of these unfortunate men must sure have the less force, and their
arguments, though never so specious, are to be suspected, when they come from men who have
mortgaged themselves to severe creditors, that expect a rigorous observance of the contract,
let it be never so unwarrantable. If these, or any others, should at this time preach up anger
and vengeance against the Church of England; may it not without injustice be suspected that
a thing so plainly out of season springeth rather from corruption than mistake; and that those
who act this choleric part, do not believe themselves, but only pursue higher directions, and
endeavour to make good that part of their contract, which obligeth them, upon a forfeiture,
to make use of their enflaming eloquence? They might apprehend their wages would be retrenched
if they should be moderate: and therefore, whilst violence is their interest, those who have
not the same arguments have no reason to follow such a partial example.

If there should be men, who by the load of their crimes against the Government, have been bowed
down to comply with it against their conscience; who by incurring the want of a pardon, have
drawn upon themselves a necessity of an entire resignation, such men are to be lamented, but
not to be believed. Nay, they themselves, when they have discharged their unwelcome talk, will
be inwardly glad that their forced endeavours do not succeed, and are pleased when men resist
their insinuations; which are far from being voluntary or sincere, but are squeezed out of
them by the weight of their being so obnoxious.

If, in the height of this great dearness, by comparing things, it should happen that at this
instant there is much a surer friendship with those who are so far from allowing liberty that
they allow no living to a Protestant under them--let the scene lie in what part of the world
it will, the argument will come home, and sure it will afford sufficient ground to suspect.
Apparent contradictions must strike us; neither nature nor reason can digest them. Self-flattery,
and the desire to deceive ourselves, to gratify present appetite, with all their power, which
is great, cannot get the better of such broad conviction, as some things carry along with them.
Will you call these vain and empty suspicions? Have you been at all times so void of fears
and jealousies, as to justify your being so unreasonably valiant in having none upon this occasion?
Such an extraordinary courage at this unseasonable time, to say no more, is too dangerous a
virtue to be commended.

If then, for these and a thousand other reasons, there is cause to suspect, sure your new friends
are not to dictate to you, or advise you. For instance: the Addresses that fly abroad every
week, and murder us with another to the same; the first draughts are made by those who are
not very proper to be secretaries to the Protestant Religion: and it is your part only to write
them out fairer again.

Strange! that you, who have been formerly so much against set forms, should now be content
the priests should indite for you. The nature of thanks is an unavoidable consequence of being
pleased or obliged; they grow in the heart, and from thence show themselves either in looks,
speech, writing, or action. No man was ever thankful because he was bid to be so, but because
he had, or thought he had some reason for it. If then there is cause in this case to pay such
extravagant acknowledgments, they will flow naturally, without taking such pains to procure
them; and it is unkindly done to tire all the Post-horses with carrying circular letters, to
solicit that which would be done without any trouble or constraint. If it is really in itself
such a favour, what needeth so much pressing men to be thankful, and with such eager circumstances,
that where persuasions cannot delude, threatenings are employed to fright them into a compliance?
Thanks must be voluntary, not only unconstrained but unsolicited, else they are either trifles
or snares, that either signify nothing or a great deal more than is intended by those that
give them. If an inference should be made, that whosoever thanketh the King for his Declaration,
is by that engaged to justify it in point of law; it is a greater stride than I presume all
those care to make who are persuaded to address. It shall be supposed that all the thankers
will be repealers of the Test, whenever a Parliament shall meet; such an expectation is better
prevented before than disappointed afterwards; and the surest way to avoid the lying under
such a scandal is not to do anything that may give a colour to the mistake. These bespoken
thanks are little less improper than love-letters that were solicited by the lady to whom they
are to be directed: so that, besides the little ground there is to give them, the manner of
getting them doth extremely lessen their value. It might be wished that you would have suppressed
your impatience, and have been content, for the sake of religion, to enjoy it within yourselves,
without the liberty of a public exercise, till a Parliament had allowed it; but since that
could not be, and that the articles of some amongst you have made use of the well-meant zeal
of the generality to draw them into this mistake, I am so far from blaming you with that sharpness,
which perhaps the matter in strictness would bear, that I am ready to err on the side of the
more gentle construction.

There is a great difference between enjoying quietly the advantages of an act irregularly done
by others, and the going about to support it against the laws in being. The law is so sacred
that no trespass against it is to be defended; yet frailties may in some measure be excused
when they cannot be justified. The desire of enjoying liberty, from which men have been so
long restrained, may be a temptation that their reason is not at all times able to resist.
If in such a case some objections are leapt over, indifferent men will be more inclined to
lament the occasion than to fall too hard upon the fault, whilst it is covered with the apology
of a good intention. But where, to rescue yourselves from the severity of one law, you give
a blow to all the laws, by which your religion and liberty are to be protected; and instead
of silently receiving the benefit of this indulgence, you set up for advocates to support it,
you become voluntary aggressors, and look like counsel retained by the prerogative against
your old friend Magna Charta, who hath done nothing to deserve her falling thus under your
displeasure.

If the case then should be, that the price expected from you for this liberty is giving up
your right in the laws, sure you will think twice before you go any further in such a losing
bargain. After giving thanks for the breach of one law, you lose the right of complaining of
the breach of all the rest; you will not very well know how to defend yourselves when you are
pressed; and having given up the question when it was for your advantage, you cannot recall
it when it shall be to your prejudice. If you will set up at one time a power to help you,
which at another time, by parity of reason, shall be made use of to destroy you, you will neither
be pitied nor relieved against a mischief which you draw upon yourselves by being so unreasonably
thankful. It is like calling in auxiliaries to help, who are strong enough to subdue you. In
such a case your complaints will come too late to be heard, and your sufferings will raise
mirth instead of compassion.

If you think, for your excuse, to expound your thanks, so as to restrain them to this particular
case; others, for their ends, will extend them further: and in these differing interpretations,
that which is backed by authority will be the most likely to prevail; especially when, by the
advantage you have given them, they have in truth the better of the argument, and that the
inferences from your own concessions are very strong and express against you. This is so far
from being a groundless supposition, that there was a late instance of it in the last session
of Parliament, in the House of Lords, where the first thanks, though things of course, were
interpreted to be the approbation of the King's whole speech, and a restraint from the further
examination of any part of it, though never so much disliked; and it was with difficulty obtained,
not to be excluded from the liberty of objecting to this mighty prerogative of dispensing,
merely by this innocent and usual piece of good manners, by which no such thing could possibly
be intended.

This showeth that some bounds are to be put to your good breeding, and that the Constitution
of England is too valuable a thing to be ventured upon a compliment. Now that you have for
some time enjoyed the benefit of the end, it is time for you to look into the danger of the
means. The same reason that made you desirous to get liberty must make you solicitous to preserve
it, so that the next thought will naturally be, not to engage yourself beyond retreat; and
to agree so far with the principles of all religion, as not to rely upon a death-bed repentance.

There are certain periods of time, which being once past, make all cautions ineffectual, and
all remedies desperate. Our understandings are apt to be hurried on by the first heats, which,
if not restrained in time, do not give us leave to look back till it is too late. Consider
this in the case of your anger against the Church of England, and take warning by their mistake
in the same kind, when after the late King's Restoration they preserved so long the bitter
taste of your rough usage to them in other times, that it made them forget their interest and
sacrifice it to their revenge.

Either you will blame this proceeding in them, and for that reason not follow it; or, if you
allow it, you have no reason to be offended with them; so that you must either dismiss your
anger or lose your excuse; except you should argue more partially than will be supposed of
men of your morality and understanding.

If you had now to do with those rigid prelates who made it a matter of conscience to give you
the least indulgence, but kept you at an uncharitable distance, and even to your most reasonable
scruples continued stiff and inexorable, the argument might be fairer on your side; but since
the common danger has so laid open that mistake, that all the former haughtiness towards you
is for ever extinguished, and that it hath turned the spirit of persecution into a spirit of
peace, charity, and condescension; shall this happy change only affect the Church of England?
And are you so in love with separation as not to be moved by this example? It ought to be followed,
were there no other reason than that it is virtue; but when, besides that, it is become necessary
to your preservation, it is impossible to fail the having its effect upon you.

