At last, tired with her search, Lucy returned to the house, and there found Deborah ironing
at the long table in the hall, and crooning away her one dismal song of "Barbara Allen's cruelty."

"So you can sing again, Deb," she began, "now the Roundheads are gone and Diggory come back?"

"Little girls should not meddle with what does not concern them," answered Deborah.

"You need not call me a little girl," said Lucy.  "I am almost eleven years old; and I know
a secret, a real secret."

"A secret, Mistress Lucy?  Who would tell their secrets to the like of you?" said Deborah,
contemptuously.

"No one told me; I found it out for myself!" cried Lucy, in high exultation.  "I know what
became of the pigeon pie that we thought Rose ate up!"

"Eh?  Mistress Lucy!" exclaimed Deborah, pausing in her ironing, full of curiosity.

Lucy was delighted to detail the whole of what she had observed.

"Well!" cried Deborah, "if ever I heard tell the like!  That slip of a thing out in all the
blackness of the night!  I should be afraid of my life of the ghosts and hobgoblins.  Oh! 
I had rather be set up for a mark for all the musketeers in the Parliament army, than set one
foot out of doors after dark!"

As Deborah spoke, Walter came into the hall.  He saw that Lucy had observed something, and
was anxious every time she opened her lips. This made him rough and sharp with her, and he
instantly exclaimed, "How now, Lucy, still gossipping?"

"You are so cross, I can't speak a word for you," said Lucy, fretfully, walking out of the
room, while Walter, in his usual imperious way, began to shout for Diggory and his boots. 
"Diggory, knave!"

"Anon, sir!" answered the dogged voice.

"Bring them, I say, you laggard!"

"Coming, sir, coming."

"Coming, are you, you snail?" cried Walter, impatiently.  "Your heels are tardier now than
they were at Worcester!"

"A man can't do more nor he can do, sir," said Diggory, sullenly, as he plodded into the hall.

"Answering again, lubber?" said Walter.  "Is this what you call cleaned?  You are not fit for
your own shoe-blacking trade!  Get along with you!" and he threw the boots at Diggory in a
passion.  "I must wear them, though, as they are, or wait all day.  Bring them to me again."

Walter had some idle notion in his head that it was Puritanical to speak courteously to servants,
and despising Diggory for his cowardice and stupidity, he was especially overbearing with him,
and went on rating him all the time he was putting on his boots, to go out and try to catch
some fish for the morrow's dinner, which was likely to be but scanty.  As soon as he was gone,
Diggory, who had listened in sulky silence, began to utter his complaints.

"Chicken-heart, moon-calf, awkward lubber, those be the best words a poor fellow gets.  I can
tell Master Walter that these are no times for gentlefolks to be hectoring, especially when
they haven't a penny to pay wages with."

"You learnt that in the wars, Diggory," said Deborah, turning round, for, grumble as she might
herself, she could not bear to have a word said by anyone else against her lady's family, and
loved to scold her sweetheart, Diggory.  "Never mind Master Walter.  If he has not a penny
in his pocket, and the very green coat to his back is cut out of his grandmother's farthingale,
more's the pity.  How should he show he is a gentleman but by hectoring a bit now and then,
'specially to such a rogue as thou, coming back when thy betters are lost.  That is always
the way, as I found when I lost my real silver crown, and kept my trumpery Parliament bit."

"Ah, Deb!" pleaded Diggory, "thou knowst not what danger is!  I thought thou wouldst never
have set eyes on poor Diggory again."

"Much harm would that have been," retorted Mrs. Deb, tossing her head.  "D'ye think I'd have
broke my heart?  That I'll never do for a runaway."

