Then was the black knight blithe, and drew near to Sir Lancelot, and bared his head, which
was black as pitch; that was the fashion of his land--Moors are black as burnt brands. But
in all that men would praise in a knight was he fair; after his kind. Though he were black,
what was he the worse? In him was naught unsightly; he was taller by half a foot than any knight
who stood beside him, and as yet was he scarce more than a child! It pleased him so well when
he heard them speak thus of Sir Agloval that he knelt him straightway on the earth; but Sir
Gawain raised him up, and told him their tidings, how they were but as messengers, and belonged
to the court of King Arthur, which was of high renown, and that they rode at that time seeking
Sir Perceval and Sir Agloval, since the king desired them both. "And his mind is to see and
speak with them; may we by any means persuade those noble knights we shall return straightway
to the king's court, an it be so that they will ride with us (further will we not vaunt ourselves,
'tis of our good will, and their pleasure), thereby shall the king be the more honoured. They
belong to the Round Table, and have done so of long time; both are of the king's court, and
knights of high renown. Now an ye will work wisely, and shun your own harm, ye will mount,
and ride to King Arthur's court, and delay not. I hope in God that Sir Agloval shall come thither
within short space, or that ye shall hear tidings of him; for there come full oft tidings from
afar. Go ye to court without tarrying, the king will receive ye well. Tell him, and give him
to wit who ye be, and whence ye come, and the quest upon which ye ride; he will not let ye
depart ere we come and bring with us your father, an God prosper us. Should ye ride thus through
the land, and fight with every knight whom ye may meet, ye will need great good fortune to
win every conflict without mischance or ill-hap! They who will be ever fighting, and ne'er
avoid a combat, an they hold such custom for long, though at whiles they escape, yet shall
they find their master, who will perforce change their mood! Now Sir Knight do our bidding,
for your own honour's sake, and ride ye to court; grant us this grace, for ere ye have abode
long time there I hope that ye shall behold your father or receive tidings of him. But till
that time abide ye at the court, there shall ye be well at ease in many ways. Now promise us
this; we shall seek your father, and may we find him, and God give us honour in our quest,
then will we return as swiftly as may be, and rejoice ye and the king!"

When the Moor heard these words he laughed with heart and mouth (his teeth were white as chalk,
otherwise was he altogether black), and he spake, "God our Father reward ye, noble knights,
for the good will and the honour ye have done me, and also for the great comfort wherewith
ye have lightened mine heart that long hath been all too heavy. An my steed fail me not I shall
ride whither ye bid me to this king whom ye praise so highly."

With that he pledged to the knights hand and knighthood, and called God to witness that he
would do their bidding, faithfully, and without dispute, so long as he might live.

Then quoth Sir Lancelot: "Knight, an ye be in any need, when ye come into Arthur's land,--I
ween 'tis all unknown to ye,--speak but of us twain whom ye see here and men shall do ye naught
but honour and courtesy, where'er ye come, in any place. And when ye come to the king, ere
ye tell him aught beside, say that ye have seen and have spoken with us; and trow me, without
fail, ye shall be well received!" The Moor spake: "'Tis well said--God reward ye for this courtesy;
but were it your will and pleasing to ye that I knew the names of ye two then i'sooth were
I the blither withal!" 

Apparently, he had fallen into the position of making supplication for mercy to a person who
he knew was not honorable in his dealings, and who was entirely capable, either through the encouragement
of his own malignant judgments, or by way of colluding with others in theirs, to squash--to augment--to
misrepresent--and in every sort of way to pervert and twist what he was translating. Nevertheless,
neither could this mortifying sense of reliance in one case, nor
the ugent pressure of political welfare in another, ever force Napoleon
to make the effort to learn English primarily, or Spanish or German
secondarily.

 Such good knights as ye be, since ye at this time fare to seek my father, by the power
of our Lord I will not stay behind; 'twere shame an I did. I shall ride with ye twain!"

Quoth Sir Gawain: "Then must ye lay aside all outrageousness, and ride peaceably on your way,
and whatever knight shall meet ye, and greet ye courteously, him shall ye greet and let pass
on his way without strife or contention; and be his friend an he hath done ye no wrong--this
do I counsel ye straitly. But he that is fierce and fell towards ye or towards another, on
him shall ye prove your prowess, and humble his pride, if ye may. And honour all women, and
keep them from shame, first and last, as best ye may. Be courteous and of gentle bearing to
all ye meet who be well-mannered toward ye, and he who hath no love for virtue against him
spare neither sword, nor spear, nor shield!"

The Moor spake: "Since that ye will it so, I will at your bidding forbear, otherwise might
I rue it! May God be gracious to me."

So rode they all three together till they came to a parting of the ways where stood a fair
cross, and thereon letters red as blood. Sir Gawain was learned in clerkly lore, he read the
letters wherein was writ that here was the border of Arthur's land, and let any man who came
to the cross, and who bare the name of knight, bethink him well, since he might not ride far
without strife and conflict, and the finding of such adventures as might lightly turn to his
harm, or even to his death--the land was of such customs.

This did Sir Gawain tell to the twain. Then they saw, by the parting of the ways, a hermit's
cell, fairly builded, and the knights bethought them that they would turn them thither that
they might hear and see, and know what the words boded.

There saw they the hermit, who seemed to them a right good man; and they dismounted at his
little window, and asked his tidings, if perchance a knight in red armour had passed that way?
And the good man answered and said 'twas but the other day, afore noon, that he had seen two
knights who were wondrous like unto each other. "Of a truth it seemed to me, by their features
and by their gestures, that they should be brothers. Their steeds seemed beyond measure weary.
They came that self-same road that cometh from that land that men here call Britain; they were
both in seeming men of might, and the one had steed and armour that were even red as blood.
They dismounted, both of them, at the foot of that cross ye see there. There many a judgment
is given. The Colosseum.
The Colosseum is an extraordinary and a giant sized round building. It has been built in the
Regent’s Park in London. This was actually located on the walls. It was highly enriched and represented
London with costly and eye catching painting works. All such eye catching paintings were based
on views of entire in and around natural sceneries of London especially as they were seen from
the cross on the top of St. Paul's Cathedral. The entire scenes on such valuable paintings
are even now matchless in all aspects and they are one of the most extraordinary in quality and
elegance. They are highly considered as most important world affordable performance and they are
in fact combined with the advantages of the circular view of the panorama. They are magnificent
and wonderful in size and distance of the great diorama. Every minute art work in such paintings
is clearly understandable and every one of them is very sincere in its nature. Every one can
easily examine their distant objects by a telescope or opera glass comfortably.
By reading the above paragraph, you can clearly understand about the
Colosseum and its real purpose, structure of natural paintings, its
momentary status of objects in motion, it’s truly drawn clear pictures
with high clarity etc. They are in fact truly colored.

They are very perfect in its work and they are completely away from any kinds of discrepancies.
They are away from convergence of visual axes. If you try to eye its one of the smallest images
through a telescope or opera glass, it will certainly highlight your
retina in a great sense and also it will admire you highly by its
realities.

But as a matter of fact the desideratum is still remaining in paint motion. Now this has been
again talented recently with some decorations and in so many cases with singular facility. As decoration,
in order to make the picture so transparent and see through, some throwing lights and shadow
have been arranged from it’s behind area. Especially they have proved truthfully their amazing
elegance in the exhibitions of the diorama and cosmorama. They are actually resembling as the
sun beams occasionally interrupted by passing clouds and d occasionally darting through the windows
of a cathedral and as illumination of the objects in its venerable interior – especially as
the rising and disappearing of mist over a beautiful landscape, running water. Also it resembles
as the cascades sublime precipices of Mount Saint. Gothard in Switzerland. Moreover, apart from
all above surprise, in the cosmorama of regent-street, the great fire of Edinburgh was also
astonishingly painted as a natural and real fire or conflagration. If you want to clearly imagine
about this fire scene, first the painting expresses the city which was seen sleeping in darkness.
Then the fire was slowly started to flame. Now the fire is enhancing in its appearance and it is
trying to catch every thing and lighting up the sky. Then soon at short intervals, when the wind
vigorously increased, the roofs started to fell down. Then there are bursts of flames surpassing
to heaven. There are clear reflections appearing from every wall and spire. Now you can see
the clouds of smoke are starting to rise in rapid manner and they are also sailing north direction
due to vigorous wind.

They are all they disappearing in the womb of distant darkness.  This is very sure and there
is no doubt that there is no chance to have any kind misunderstanding with such valuable paintings
and its great amazing performance. There is no chance to be with any kind of negative impression
related its stuff. If any one sees this painting with real knowledge of original city and its
august appearance will accept grandly its reality. Even though the mechanism for creating such
results is very simple, the viewers will hopefully and fully enjoy this marvelous performance
without any kind of own cross examination.
At present in the present situation, without doubt, we every one can enjoy its delightful appearance.
We cannot omit that at any reason. We can understand well about its present several good-humored
works.

We can gratefully and grandly enjoy its sparkling animated images. Dr. Arnotte through his amazing
work with pencil of artist and with the pen of the philosophers is overwhelming in real heartedness.
Also it has produced so many amazing ketches of extreme charming
pictures with great elegance.

* * * * *

THE GATHERER
A snapper up of unconsidered trifles - SHAKSPEARE.
 This hath been the worse for many. Then is the beast greater than a horse, and runneth
more swiftly than any horse may. Ye are wise an ye shun the fiend. This do I tell ye beforehand.
Had he not chosen his lair, and did he wander from the land, as well might be, by the Lord
who made us he had laid the world waste! Ye would do well to turn back."

But 'twas labour lost; not for all the riches that belonged to King Arthur would he have taken
back his word and his covenant, for any prayer that might be made him, nor have yielded aught
through fear.

Then would the knights take leave of each other that they might depart. The Moor spake to the
twain: "For what do ye take me? Am I a lesser or a weaker man than either of ye that Sir Gawain
must needs ride with me? I will not have it so. There is no knight so bold but I dare well
withstand him. I know well what is unfitting. Now say whither ye will betake ye, and send me
what road ye will; I will dare the venture, be it never so perilous. By my knighthood, and
by all who follow Christendom, I shall adventure alone, and take that which may chance."

Then said Sir Gawain: "It liketh me ill that ye sware such an oath, yet since such is your
will, take ye the road that leadeth to the sea (this seemeth to me the best), ride swiftly
and spare not, but seek your father. Place the electroscope on the surface plate (or at least
on a piece of plate glass). Place a scribing block next to it and adjust the scriber so you can
dip it into the kerosene to the depth that you need. You can do this by twisting some wire
around the scribing point so that it points down. The scribing point gives you an idea of how
high the vessel can be filled. Adjust the liquid until it touches the tip of the scribing point;
by doing so, the wire forms an electrode of constant surface area. Put the scribing block down,
giving a charge to the electroscope; then note the amount of time it takes for the given amount
of collapse of the leaves.
Next, replace the kerosene with paraffin or vaseline, which insulate
relatively well.

Then repeat the process, noting the amount of time for the same amount of collapse of the leaves.
Although this test produces approximate results, it is usually adequate
and appropriate for workshop environments, especially since it is
easily carried out.

Also, unlike with the use of more complex means, this experiment does not require adjustment
for electrometer leakage.
Quantitative tests aren't valuable unless they are extraordinarily complex, since the real
resistance of insulating oils is dependent on electrical intensity, its duration, and the direction
of the voltage that it was subjected to in the past, as well as the influences of even small
amounts of moisture. Pain enough
did he make her bear for that she desired not to ride with him. Haddo, the clergyman pulled a
bottle of spirits out of the pocket of his long woollen plaid wrap, and offered it to Janet.
The two of them sat down on a soft hill of heather and traded the bottle back and forth, taking
long sips. There was a boy, Francie, hiding nearby, and, if he had known anything about mythology,
he may have mistaken the cleric for the God Pan, and the young woman, who was joking and laughing
beside him, for a lovely woodland fairy. Though Janet had more the build of a burlesque dancer,
than a wood nymph. It seemed to the boy remarked that the two of
them were great pals.

When Haddo finally got up to depart, the young lady threw pebbles at him, while shrieking merrily.
The man frolicked around and waggled his walking stick at her, and let out a guffaw that drowned
out the girl's giggling.  They seemed to be having a little too much fun, the boy thought,
and when he felt it was safe to come out, sat down and pondered what
he had witnessed.
The good steed breasted the current, swimming as best it might and brought its master to the
further side. His manly form was portrayed positively by his costume. A calabash of sour milk was
immediately presented by one of his wives.

Cakes of rice of pounded nuts of honey also appeared. Africans are typically only granted two
meals a day. Mohammedans that are traditional declare that they will not intake intoxicating liquors;
those that are less strict, however, cannot resist the temptations of alcohol, of which pagan
negroes drink often. Samba carries a bottle of liquor, immediately consuming its contents.

We then proceeded to the remainder of the premises. Samba's six wives each had a separate hut. The
dwellings were similar to that of their master, but were typically quite smaller. The doors
were also very low, causing a large amount of difficulty open entering. Openings to allow light,
air, and people the ability to come and go always point towards the
west (eastern winds bring blinding sand and tornados which may increase
the vulnerability of the hut if openings were present on the other
side).

Women populated the land with their best style. A single cloth called a pang was fastened around
their waists, hanging down to the ankles. The bosom and shoulders also featured pangs. Their
hair was covered in ribbons, coral, beads, and pieces of gold. Their barren legs had neat sandals
on their feet. Beautiful bracelets, armlets, necklaces, and anklets surrounded their bodies.
Coral, bamber, and fine glass-beads interspersed themselves with beads of gold and silver. These items
are the physical manefestation of their wealth and pride.

Some of the individuals claimed their own children, who were typically covered with only strings
of beads around their waists, neck, wrists, and ankles. Infants are carried in a pang upon the
backs of the women. The huts were lacking all but a few bowls and
calabashes, cotton spinners, and the typical bed covered with mats.

The ladies were extremely curious about our skin and dress. They procured questions about the
ways of European females. One wondered how a rich man could only do with one wife.
One hut served as Samba's store, while two others were occupied by seperated male and female
slaves. The poor creatures only featured a cloth around their loins
hanging to the knees.

As night fell, they lied upon a mat or skin, hovering around a fire lit within the hut. Fire
served as a method for clearing toxic insects and creating warmth
in the crisp air.

Instead of furnature, working instruments populated the huts: hoes, rush-baskets, and calabashes.
A redoubtable paloon was also visible. This large wooden mortar made by the Loubles. They
are considered to be roving gypsies who work in wood; they are also
known as the coopers of Africa.

If they happen upon a ground furnished with a specific variety of tree, they immediately clear
cut them. The branches form huts, and the trunks are developed into bowls, canoes, pestles and
morters, and other wooden utilities.


Sir Gawain took the horse whereon the knight had ridden. He forgat not his courtesy, but gave
it into the hand of the maiden, and drew forth his good sword. Therewith was the knight come
to himself, and had taken his sword, and stood up as best he might. Evil was his thought, and
he cried: "Vassal, how were ye so bold as to do me this hurt and this shame? My father is lord
of this land, and after him shall it be mine. Think not to escape, 'tis folly that which ye
do. Even to day shall ye be repaid by those who follow me, and chastised in such wise as ye
would not have for all the riches King Arthur holds or ne'er may hold! My men will be here
anon and ye shall not escape, for in this land hath no man power or might to withstand me."

