Early in the campaign his company engaged the enemy near the Ohio River, and in the heat of
battle he had time to note and wonder at the strange conduct of one of the French officers,
a mere stripling, who seemed more concerned to check the fire of his men than to secure any
advantage in the fight. Presently the French gave way, and with a cheer the English ran forward
to claim the field, the ruder spirits among them at once beginning to plunder the wounded.
A cry for quarter drew Fairfax with a bound to the place whence it came, and, dashing aside
a pilfering soldier, he bent above a slight form that lay extended on the earth: the young
officer whose strange conduct had so surprised him. In another moment he recognized his mother's
ring on one of the slender hands. It was Gabrielle. Her father had perished in the fight, but
she had saved her lover.

In due time she went with her affianced to his home in Williamsburg, Virginia, and became mistress
of the Fairfax mansion. But she never liked the English, as a people, and when, in later years,
two sturdy sons of hers asked leave to join the Continental army, she readily consented.

FLAME SCALPS OF THE CHARTIERS

Before Pittsburg had become worthy to be called a settlement, a white man rowed his boat to
the mouth of Chartiers creek, near that present city. He was seeking a place in which to make
his home, and a little way up-stream, where were timber, water, and a southern slope, he marked
a "tomahawk claim," and set about clearing the land. Next year his wife, two children, and
his brother came to occupy the cabin he had built, and for a long time all went happily, but
on returning from a long hunt the brothers found the little house in ashes and the charred
remains of its occupants in the ruins. Though nearly crazed by this catastrophe they knew that
their own lives were in hourly peril, and they wished to live until they could punish the savages
for this crime. After burying the bodies, they started east across the hills, leaving a letter
on birch bark in a cleft stick at the mouth of Chartiers creek, in which the tragedy was recounted.

This letter was afterward found by trappers. The men themselves were never heard from, and
it is believed that they, too, fell at the hands of the Indians. Old settlers used to affirm
that on summer nights the cries of the murdered innocents could be heard in the little valley
where the cabin stood, and when storms were coming up these cries were often blended with the
yells of savages. More impressive are the death lights--the will-o'-the-wisps--that wander
over the scene of the tragedy, and up and down the neighboring slopes. These apparitions are
said to be the spirits of husband and wife seeking each other, or going together in search
of their children; but some declare that in their upward streaming rays it can readily be seen
that they are the scalps of the slain. Two of them have a golden hue, and these are the scalps
of the children. From beneath them drops of red seem to distil on the grass and are found to
have bedewed the flowers on the following morning.

THE CONSECRATION OF WASHINGTON

