They advanced to the poop-rail, and watched the bustle. Telescope in hand on the quarter-deck,
Don Miguel was issuing his orders. Already the gunners were kindling their matches; sailors
were aloft, taking in sail; others were spreading a stout rope net above the waist, as a protection
against falling spars. And meanwhile Don Miguel had been signalling to his consort, in response
to which the Hidalga had drawn steadily forward until she was now abeam of the Milagrosa, half
cable's length to starboard, and from the height of the tall poop my lord and Miss Bishop could
see her own bustle of preparation. And they could discern signs of it now aboard the advancing
English ship as well. She was furling tops and mainsail, stripping in fact to mizzen and sprit
for the coming action. Thus, almost silently without challenge or exchange of signals, had
action been mutually determined.

Of necessity now, under diminished sail, the advance of the Arabella was slower; but it was
none the less steady. She was already within saker shot, and they could make out the figures
stirring on her forecastle and the brass guns gleaming on her prow. The gunners of the Milagrosa
raised their linstocks and blew upon their smouldering matches, looking up impatiently at the
Admiral.

But the Admiral solemnly shook his head.

"Patience," he exhorted them. "Save your fire until we have him. He is coming straight to his
doom--straight to the yardarm and the rope that have been so long waiting for him."

"Stab me!" said his lordship. "This Englishman may be gallant enough to accept battle against
such odds. But there are times when discretion is a better quality than gallantry in a commander."

"Gallantry will often win through, even against overwhelming strength," said Miss Bishop. He
looked at her, and noted in her bearing only excitement. Of fear he could still discern no
trace. His lordship was past amazement. She was not by any means the kind of woman to which
life had accustomed him.

"Presently," he said, "you will suffer me to place you under cover."

"I can see best from here," she answered him. And added quietly: "I am praying for this Englishman.
He must be very brave."

Under his breath Lord Julian damned the fellow's bravery.

The Arabella was advancing now along a course which, if continued, must carry her straight
between the two Spanish ships. My lord pointed it out. "He's crazy surely!" he cried. "He's
driving straight into a death-trap. He'll be crushed to splinters between the two. No wonder
that black-faced Don is holding his fire. In his place, I should do the same."

But even at that moment the Admiral raised his hand; in the waist, below him, a trumpet blared,
and immediately the gunner on the prow touched off his guns. As the thunder of them rolled
out, his lordship saw ahead beyond the English ship and to larboard of her two heavy splashes.
Almost at once two successive spurts of flame leapt from the brass cannon on the Arabella's
beak-head, and scarcely had the watchers on the poop seen the shower of spray, where one of
the shots struck the water near them, then with a rending crash and a shiver that shook the
Milagrosa from stem to stern, the other came to lodge in her forecastle. To avenge that blow,
the Hidalga blazed at the Englishman with both her forward guns. But even at that short range--between
two and three hundred yards--neither shot took effect.

