And then I laid my lips on hers.  She was my wife.  She was the woman God had made for me,
the woman who had trusted me through more than death, and who had come to me through blood
and agony and tears.  She was my own, and I had her there alive.  I took her to myself.

CHAPTER XXXIII

TO US AND TO OUR CHILDREN

Hours passed and the flap of Cadillac's tent was not lifted.  Outside in the camp the drum
beat for sunset.  The woman heard it.  She pushed back her soft waves of hair, and a shadow
fell across the light that had been in her eyes.

"I had forgotten," she cried, with a soft tremble of wonder in her voice.  "We have both forgotten.
We promised the commandant that we would talk about your duty to the tribes."

I kissed her for her forgetfulness.  "Talk is unnecessary," I whispered.  "I have made up my mind."

But the drum's note had recalled her to what lay outside the tent walls.  She sighed a little
and bent to me as I sat at her feet.

"Do not make up your mind yet," she begged with a curious, tender reluctance.  "Let me tell
you something first."

I pressed her hand between my own.  "I cannot listen.  I can only feel. Tell me, when did you
love me first?"

She raised her hand to hide a tide of color.  "Monsieur, it is my shame," she cried, with a
little half sob of exultance.  "It is my shame, but I will tell you.  The night--the night
that we were married, I lay awake for hours beset by jealousy of the woman of the miniature.
Oh, I am indeed shamed!  But how could I help it?  Your walk, your laugh, your way of carrying
your head!  How could I keep from loving you?  But I fought it.  I fought it.  I knew we had
to part.  I went to sleep every night with that thought uppermost."

I took the hand I held, and quieted its trembling against my lips. "You are my wife," I said.
"We shall never part.  We shall live together till we are very old."  The marvel of my own
words awed me.

But she begged me to hear her out.  "I must speak of the past," she went on.  "It leads to
what I would have you say to the commandant. Will you listen?"

"I will try."

"Then--then let me speak of the day we parted.  I saw that I had to leave you.  I knew--I thought
I knew--that country was more sacred than individual happiness.  But I was weaker than I thought.
When I saw Michillimackinac fade, when I knew that I should never see you again, my life seemed
to stop.  I begged my cousin to take me back.  I--I begged till I fainted."

I could not keep my hands from clenching.  "And he refused you?" I asked with my lips dry,
and I knew that my voice showed hate of a man who was dead.

She did not answer my question, and when she did not defend him I knew that he had been hard
to her.  "I must have remained unconscious a long time," she hurried on, "for when I came to
myself again the country was different and the sun was low.  I was exhausted, and I could not
think as I had done.  You had said that patriotism was a man-made feeling, and I repeated your
words over and over.  It was all I could seem to remember.  I could not see why our parting
had been necessary.  I wonder if you can understand.  It was as if I had been reborn into a
new set of beliefs.  All that had seemed inevitable and great had grown trivial.  I could not
see distinctions as I had.  God made us--English, French, Indians.  I could not understand
what patriotism stood for, after all.  I did not know what had come upon my mind, but I saw
that words that I had thought worth sacrificing life for had lost their meaning.  And so--and
so----  You see what I would say.  I have changed.  If you wish to lead the tribes you are
not to think of me."

I rose and drew her to me.  "But, Mary, I no longer wish to lead the tribes."

She could not understand me, as indeed I could not wholly understand myself.  She looked at
me gravely and long, and she tried to find the truth in me,--the truth that was out of sight;
the truth about myself that even I did not know.

"Was the commandant right?" she queried.  "Is it anxiety about me that has changed your plans?"

I could only shake my head at her.  "I am not sure."  Then I sat beside her and tried to explain.
"Simon is dead, Pierre died saving me. Leclerc and Labarthe died under torture.  I sacrificed
them to enforce a belief.  And now the belief is a phantom.  It is very strange.  Mary, we
have traveled by different roads, but we have reached the same goal. My ambition for conquest
is put away."

She drew a long breath, and I saw splendid understanding of me in the look she gave.  Yet she
was unconvinced.

"Perhaps this feeling may pass," she argued.  "It may be temporary. Then you will regret your
lost hold with the tribes."

I smiled at her.  "I love you," I murmured.  "I love you.  I love you. I am tired of talk of
blood and war.  Mary, you accepted me as I was, accept me, if you can, as I am now.  I cannot
analyze myself.  I cannot promise what I will believe as time goes on.  But this I know.  I
was born with a sword in my hand, but now I cannot use it--for aggression. I do not mean that
I think it is wrong.  I do not know what I believe. Time will tell."

The strange light that made her seem all spirit flamed in the glance that thanked me.

"Yet think well," she cautioned.  "I--I am proud of you."  Her voice sank to a whisper.  "Sometimes
even my love seems swallowed in my pride in you.  I live on my pride in your power.  Think
of your unfinished work.  No, no, you must go on."

I took her by the shoulders.  "You strange, double woman!" I cried, with my voice unsteady.
"You command me to do something, the while you are trembling from head to foot for fear I will
obey.  Will you always play the martyr to your spirit?  Mary, I shall not lead the tribes."

"But your unfinished work!"

"What was worth doing has been done.  This crisis is past.  The west will be safe from the
Iroquois for some time.  There is other work for me.  We will go to France.  I have business
there.  Then I would show the world my wife."

Yet she held me away a moment longer. Tie a knot in the top of a string to prevent its sliding out and cotton
it through the hole in the protection.

By put large strips of paper on a table or at the floor to form the line, do you may make a
Dominicus-School Room= Leave an space for the doorway on the end
of the room from the organ.

Build a serration of three spools high, then skipping the end winder,
build on two layers of six spools each; again skip the end spools
and build me on a layer as four spools.

Build the fine, tight pipe-organ close in a edge of the room. Stand
eight spools to the row large to each other at equal arms in the
boundary side line.

Build up a strip of four narrow spools at each side up the space
and connect them see with a column of paper clad from the region of one
column to the end of the other.

  The woman on my arm laughed with
me.  A thrush was singing.  Life was before me, and the woman of my love loved me.  My blood
tingled and I breathed deep. The wood smoke--the smoke of the pathfinder's fire--pricked keen
in my nostrils.

I pointed the woman to the forest.  "We shall come back to it," I cried.  "We leave it now,
but we shall come back to it, some time, somehow.  Perhaps we shall be settlers, explorers.
I do not know.  But we shall come back.  This land belongs to us; to us and to our children
and our children's children.  French or English, what will it matter then?  It will be a new race."

The woman turned.  I heard her quick breath and saw the red flood her from chin to brow.  "A
new race!" she repeated, and her eyes grew dark with the splendor of the thought.  She clasped
her hands, and looked to the west over the unmapped forest, and I knew that for the moment
her blood was pulsing, not for me, but for that unborn race which was to hold this land.  I
had married a woman, yes, but also I had married a poet and a dreamer and a will incarnate.
It was such spirit as hers that would shape the destinies of nations yet to come.

I laughed again, and the joy of life ran through me like delirium.

"Come!" I cried to her.  "Come, we will tell Cadillac that to-morrow we start for Montreal.
The sooner we leave, the sooner we return,--return to smell the wood smoke, and try the wilderness
together.  Come, Mary, come."

And wrapping my wife in the cloak that the savage king had given her, I led her out and stood
beside her while I sent the tribes upon their way.