"By what right can we curse the people of Marseilles? Must not also those provinces be cursed
which, since the decline of the republic, thus allowed one of their sisters to be overpowered
and subjugated? But retribution was swift. Encouraged by the indifference of the Gauls, the
Romans took possession of Auvergne, and later of the Dauphine, and a little later also of Languedoc
and Vivarais despite the heroic defence of their peoples, who, besides being divided among
themselves, were left to their own resources. Thus the Romans became masters of almost all
southern Gaul; they govern it by their proconsuls and reduce its people to slavery. Do the
other provinces at last take alarm at these ominous invasions of Rome that push ever forward
and threaten the very heart of Gaul? No! No! Relying upon their own courage, they say as you,
Joel, did shortly ago: 'The South lies far away from the North, the East lies far away from
the West.' This notwithstanding, our race, which is heedless and presumptuous enough to fail
to prepare in advance, and when it is still time, against foreign domination, always has the
belated courage of rebelling when the yoke is actually placed upon its neck. The provinces
that have been subjugated by the Romans, break out in resolute rebellion; these are smothered
in their own blood. Our disasters follow swiftly upon one another. The Burgundians, incited
thereto by the descendants of the old kings, take up arms against the Frank-Compté and invoke
the aid of the Romans. The Frank-Compté, unable to make head against such an alliance, requests
reinforcements from the Germans of the other side of the Rhine. Thus these barbarians of the
North are taught the road to Gaul, and after bloody battles with the very people who invited
them, remain masters of both Burgundy and Frank-Compté. Last year, the Swiss, encouraged by
the example of the Germans, make an irruption into the Gallic provinces that had been conquered
by the Romans. Thereupon, Julius Cæsar is appointed proconsul; he hastens from Italy; owerthrows
the Swiss in their mountains; drives the Germans out of Burgundy and Frank-Compté; takes possession
of these provinces, now exhausted by their long struggles with the barbarians; and to the yoke
of these now succeeds that of the Romans. It was a change of masters. And finally, at the beginning
of this year a portion of Gaul shakes off its lethargy and scents the dangers that threatens
the still independent provinces. Brave patriots, wanting neither Romans nor Germans for their
masters--Galba among the Gauls of Belgium, Boddig-nat among the Gauls of Flanders--induce the
people to rise in mass against Cæsar. The Gauls of Vermandois and those of Artois also rise
in rebellion. Together they all march against the Romans! Oh, it was a great and terrible battle,
that battle of the Sambre!" cried the unknown traveler with exaltation. "The Gallic army awaited
Cæsar on the left bank of the river. Three times did the Roman army cross, and three times
was it compelled to recross it, fighting up to their waists in the blood-reddened waters. The
Roman is overthrown, the oldest legions are shattered. Cæsar alights from his horse, swings
his sword, rallies his last cohorts of veterans, that already were yielding ground, and at
their head charges upon our army. Despite Cæsar's courage the battle was lost to him, when
we saw a fresh body arrive to his aid."

"You say 'We saw'?" asked Joel. "Were you at that terrible battle?"

But the unknown visitor proceeded without answering: "Exhausted, decimated by a seven hours'
fight, we still held out against the fresh troops ... we fought to the bitter end ... we fought
unto death.... And do you know," added the stranger with an expression of profound grief, "do
you know, you who remained peacefully at home, while your brothers were dying for the liberty
of Gaul, which is also yours,--do you know how many survived of the sixty thousand men in the
Gallic army--in that battle of the Sambre?... Not five hundred!"

"Not five hundred!" cried Joel as if questioning the figures.

"I say so because I am one of the survivors," answered the stranger proudly.

"Then the two fresh scars on your face--"

"I received them at the battle of the Sambre--"

CHAPTER VII.

"WAR! WAR! WAR!"

A furious barking of dogs in the yard and a distinct noise of hard rapping at the gate of the
palisade interrupted the stranger's narrative. Still laboring under the painful impression
of the traveler's words, the family of the brenn for a moment imagined their homestead was
being attacked. The women rose precipitately, the little ones rushed to their mothers' arms,
the men ran for their arms that hung from the walls. But the dogs soon ceased barking, although
the rapping at the gate continued unabated. Joel said to his family:

"Although they are still rapping, the dogs do not bark. They must know who is at the gate."

Saying this, the brenn stepped out. Several of his kinsmen, the stranger included, followed
him out of prudence. The yard gate was opened and two voices were heard outside the palisades
crying:

"It is we, friends, ... Albinik and Mikael."

Indeed the two sons of the brenn were distinguished by the light of the torches, and behind
them their horses, panting for breath and white with foam. After tenderly embracing his sons,
especially the mariner, who was absent over a year on his sea journeys, Joel entered the house
with them, where they were received with joy and not a little surprise by their mother and
other relatives.

Albinik the mariner and Mikael the armorer were, like their father and their brother, men of
large and robust stature. Over their clothes they carried a caped cloak of heavy woolen fabric
streaming with the rain. Upon entering the house, and even before embracing their mother, the
new arrivals stepped to the altar and approached their lips to the seven small twigs of mistletoe
that stood dipped in the copper bowl on the large stone. They there noticed a lifeless body
covered with oak branches, near which Julyan still sat.

"Good evening, Julyan," said Mikael. "Who is dead?"

"It is Armel; I killed him this evening in a sword contest," answered Julyan; "but as we have
both pledged brotherhood to each other, I shall join him to-morrow beyond. If you wish it I
shall mention you to him."

"Yes, yes. Julyan; I loved Armel and expected to find him alive. In the bag on my horse I have
a little harpoon head of iron that I forged for him; I shall place it to-morrow on the pyre
of you two--"

"And you must tell Armel," added the mariner smiling, "that he went away too soon; his friends
Albinik and Meroë would have told him their last experience at sea."

"It is Armel and myself," replied Julyan with a smile, "who will later have pretty stories
to tell you. Your sea trips will be like nothing to the travels that await us in those marvelous
worlds that none has seen and all will see."

After Margarid's two sons had answered the tender inquiries of their mother and family, the
brenn said to the unknown traveler:

"Friend, these are my two sons."

"May it please heaven that the suddenness of their arrival may not be caused by some evil event,"
answered the traveler.

"I say so, too, my children," rejoined Joel. "What has happened that you come at so late an
hour and in such hurry? Happy be your return, Albinik, but I did not expect it so soon. But
where is the gentle Meroë?"

"I left her at Vannes, father. This is what has happened. I returned from Spain by the gulf
of Gascony on the way to England. The bad weather forced us to put in at Vannes. But by Teutates,
who presides over all journeys by land and sea, here on earth and beyond, I did not expect--no,
I did not expect to see what I saw in that town. I, therefore, left my vessel in port in charge
of my sailors with my wife as their chief, I took a horse and galloped to Auray. There I gave
the news to Mikael, and we hastened hither to forewarn you, father."

"And what is it you saw at Vannes?"

"What did I see? All the inhabitants, in revolt, full of indignation and rage, like the brave
Bretons that they are!"

"And what is the reason of it all, children?" asked Mamm' Margarid without leaving her distaff.

"Four Roman officers, without any other escort than four soldiers and as calmly insolent as
if they were in some enslaved country, came in yesterday and commanded the magistrates of the
town to issue orders to all the neighboring tribes to send to Vannes ten thousand bags of wheat--"

"And what else?" asked Joel laughing and shrugging his shoulders.

"Five thousand bags of oats."

"And what else?"

"Five hundred barrels of hydromel."

"Of course," said the brenn laughing louder, "they must also drink--and what else?"

"A thousand heads of beef."

"And, of course, the fattest--What else?"

"Five thousand sheep."

"That's right. One soon gets tired of beef only. Is that all, my boy?"

"They also demanded three hundred horses to furnish new equipages to the Roman cavalry, besides
two hundred wagons of forage."

"And why not? The poor horses must be fed," continued Joel sneeringly. "But there must be some
more orders. If they begin to issue orders, why stop at all?"

"The provisions were to be taken in wagons as far as Poitou and Touraine."

"And what is the wide maw that is to swallow up those bags of wheat, those muttons, those heads
of beef and those barrels of hydromel?"

"Above all," added the traveler, "who is to pay for all those provisions?"

"Pay for them!" replied Albinik. "Why, nobody. It is a forced impost."

"Ha! Ha!" laughed Joel.

"And the wide maw that is to gulp up the provisions is none other than the Roman army, which
is wintering in Touraine and Anjou."

A shudder of rage mixed with disdain ran through the family of the brenn. "Well, Joel," the
unknown traveler remarked, "do you still think that it is a long way from Touraine to Britanny?
The distance does not seem to me long, seeing that the officers of Cæsar come calmly and without
escort, empty-pursed and swinging high their canes, to provision their army here."

Joel no longer laughed; he dropped his head and remained silent.

"Our guest is right," put in Albinik; "these Romans came empty-pursed and swinging high their
canes. One of them even raised his cane over old Ronan, the oldest magistrate of Vannes, who,
like you, father, objected strongly to the Roman exaction."

"And yet, children, what else can we do but laugh at these demands. To levy these provisionings
upon us and the neighboring tribes of Vannes; to force us to carry the requisitions to Touraine
and Anjou with our oxen and horses which the Romans will surely keep also, and all that at
the very season of the late sowing and of our autumn labors; to ruin next year's harvest;--why,
that is to reduce us to living upon the grass that would have fed the cattle that they rob us of!"

"Yes," said Mikael the armorer; "they want to take away our wheat and our cattle, and leave
the grass to us. By the iron of the lance that I was forging this very morning, it shall be
the Romans who, under our blows, will bite the grass on our fields!"

"Vannes is now preparing to defend herself if attacked," added the mariner. "They have begun
to throw up trenches in the neighborhood of the port. All our sailors are to be armed, and
if the Roman galleys attack us by sea, never will the sea crows have had a like feast of corpses
upon our beach."

"While crossing to-night the other tribes," resumed Mikael, "we spread the news and sounded
the alarm. The magistrates of Vannes have also sent out messengers in all direction ordering
that fires be lighted from hill to hill, and thereby give immediate notice of the imminent
danger from one end of Britanny to the other."

Without once dropping her distaff, Mamm' Margarid had listened to the report given by her sons.
When they stopped speaking she calmly said:

"As to those Roman officers, my sons, were they not sent back to their army--after a thorough
caning?"

"No, mother; they were lodged in jail at Vannes, all except two of their soldiers whom the
magistrates charged to declare to the Roman general that no provisions whatever were to be
furnished him, and that his officers were to be as hostages."

"It would have been better to give the officers a thorough caning and drive them in disgrace
out of the town," replied Mamm' Margarid. "That is the way thieves are treated, and these Romans
tried to rob us."

"You are right, Margarid," said Joel; "they came to rob us--to starve us! to carry away our
harvests and our cattle!" And Joel, now in a towering rage, added: "By the vengeance of Hesus!
To think of their taking our fine turn-out of six young oxen with skins slick as wolves! Our
four yokes of black bulls that have such a beautiful white star in the center of their foreheads!"

"And our beautiful white heifers with yellow heads!" said Mamm' Margarid shrugging her shoulders
and never quitting her distaff, "our sheep whose fleece is so nice and thick.... Come, a good
caning for these Romans!"

"And the powerful horses of the stock of your magnificent stallion Tom-Bras," put in the traveler.
"They will, after all, have to draw your harvest to Touraine, and will then serve to replace
the worn-out horses of the Roman cavalry.... True, to them, the labor will not be excessive
... because you will now probably discover that it is not far from Touraine to Britanny."

"Well may you mock, friend," said Joel. "You were right, and I confess myself to have been
wrong. Oh! If only the provinces of Gaul had from the start confederated themselves against
the first assault of the Romans! If united they had put forth but one-half the efforts that
they put forth separately--we would not now be exposed to the insolent demands and to the threats
of these heathens! Well may you mock!"

"No, Joel, I will mock no longer," gravely answered the traveler. "The danger is near; the
hostile camp lies only a twelve day's march from here; the refusal of the magistrates of Vannes
and the imprisonment of the Roman officers--all that means speedy war--a merciless war, as
only the Romans know how to wage! If we are vanquished it means to us death on the battle field,
or slavery far away! The slave merchants follow the tracks of the Roman army; they are greedy
after prey. Whatever survives, whether whole or wounded--men, young women, girls, children--all
are sold at auction like cattle for the benefit of the vanquisher, and are forthwith consigned
by the thousands to Italy or to Southern Gaul where the Romans are settled! Arrived at their
destination, the male slaves of robust frame are often forced to fight ferocious animals in
the circus for the amusement of their masters; the young women and girls, even the children
are subjected to monstrous debaucheries. Such is war with the Romans if vanquished!" cried
the stranger. "Will you allow yourselves to be vanquished? Will you submit to such disgrace?
Will you deliver to them your wives, your sisters, your daughters and children, ye Gauls of
Britanny?"

Hardly had the traveler uttered these words when the whole family of Joel--men, women, young
girls, children--all down to the dwarfy Stumpy, rose to their feet and with their eyes shooting
fire, their cheeks inflamed, cried tumultuously, waving their arms:

"War! War! War!"

Joel's large battle mastiff, fired by these cries, rose on his hind legs and laid his fore-paws
on the breast of his master, who, while caressing his enormous head said:

"Yes, old Deber-Trud, like our tribe you will hunt the Romans.... The quarry shall be for you....
Your jaws shall be red with blood!... Wow! Wow, Deber-Trud! At the Romans! At the Romans!"

Hearing the well-known war-cry, the mastiff responded with furious barks, displaying fangs
as redoubtable as a lion's. Hearing Deber-Trud, the outside watch-dogs, as well as those locked
up in the kennels, answered him. Frightful was the war-cry raised by the pack.

"A good omen, friend Joel," observed the traveler. "Your dogs bark death to the enemy."

"Yes, yes; death to the enemy!" cried the brenn. "Thanks be to the gods, in our Breton Gaul,
on the day of peril, the watch-dog becomes a war-dog! the draw-horse becomes a war-horse! the
ox of the field a war-ox! the harvest carts chariots of war! the laborer a warrior! even our
peaceful and fruitful earth turns to war and devours the stranger! at every step he finds a
grave in our fathomless marshes, and his vessels vanish in the whirlpools of our bays which
are more terrible in their calm than in the tempest of their fury!"

"Joel," now said Julyan, who had left the body of his friend, "I promised Armel to meet him
to-morrow yonder--Such a death would be pleasant to me.... To die fighting the Romans is a
duty.... What shall I do?"

"Ask to-morrow one of the druids of Karnak."

"And our sister Hena," said Albinik the mariner to his mother. "It is nearly a year I have
not seen her.... She is surely still the pearl of the Isle of Sen? My wife Meroë charged me
to remember her to Hena."

"You will see her to-morrow," answered Mamm' Margarid; and laying down her distaff she arose.
It was the signal for the family to retire. Mamm' Margarid looked around and said:

"Let us retire, my children; it is late; to-morrow at break of day we must begin our war preparations;"
and turning to the traveler:

"May the gods grant you a good rest and pleasant dreams!"

CHAPTER VIII.

FAREWELL!

Agreeable to his promise, Joel pushed off his boat early the next morning, accompanied by his
son Albinik the mariner, and took the unknown traveler to the island of Kellor, seeing he did
not dare to land at the sacred precincts of the Isle of Sen. The brenn's guest said a few words
in a low voice to the ewagh who mounts perpetual guard in the island's house. He seemed to
be struck with respect and answered that Talyessin, the oldest of the living druids, who then
was at the Isle of Sen together with his wife Auria, expected a traveler since the previous
evening.

Before leaving Joel, the stranger said to his host: "I hope neither you nor your family will
forget your resolution of yesterday. This day a call to arms will resound from one end of Breton
Gaul to the other."

"You may rest assured that I and the rest of my tribe will be the first to respond to the call."

"I believe you. The issue now is whether Gaul shall fall into slavery or shall rise again to
the height of her one-time power and glory."

"But should I not, at this moment when I am to leave you, know the name of the brave man who
sat at my hearth? The name of the wise man who speaks with so much soundness and loves his
country so warmly?"

"Joel, my name shall be 'Soldier' so long as Gaul is not free; and if we ever meet again, I
shall call myself 'Your Friend,' seeing that I am that."

Saying these words the unknown traveler stepped into the ewagh's boat that was to take him
from Kellor to the Isle of Sen. Before the boat, which was under charge of the ewagh, put off,
Joel asked the latter whether he would be permitted to wait at the house for his daughter Hena,
who was to come on that day to visit the family. The ewagh informed him that his daughter would
not start for the shore until evening. Sorry at not being able to take Hena with him, the brenn
re-entered his boat and returned alone with Albinik.

Towards noon, Julyan went to consult the druids of the forest of Karnak upon whether he should
take the immediate and voluntary death which would be a pleasure to him, seeing he was to rejoin
Armel, or seek death in battle against the Romans. The druids answered him that having sworn
to Armel upon his brotherhood faith to die with him, he should be faithful to his promise,
and that the ewaghs would bring the body of Armel with the usual ceremonies in order to place
it upon the pyre where Julyan would find his place at moon-rise. Happy at being able so soon
to join his friend, Julyan was about to leave Karnak, when he saw the stranger, who had been
the guest of Joel and who now returned from the Isle of Sen, approaching through the forest
in the company of Talyessin. The latter said a few words to the other druids, who forthwith
surrounded the traveler with great eagerness and marks of respect. The younger ones of the
druids received him as a brother, the elder ones as a son.

Recognizing Julyan, the traveler said to him:

"As you are to return to the brenn of the tribe, wait a little; I shall give you a letter for him."

Julyan yielded to the wish of the stranger, who withdrew accompanied by Talyessin and other
druids. He returned shortly and handed to Julyan a little scroll of yellow tanned skin, saying:

"This is for Joel.... This evening, Julyan, when the moon rises we shall see each other again....
Hesus loves those who, like you, are brave and faithful in their friendship."

Upon arriving at the brenn's house, Julyan learned that the former was on the field gathering
in the wheat. He went after him and delivered to Joel the writing sent by the stranger. It said:

"Friend Joel, in the name of Gaul now in danger, this is what the druids expect of you: Command
all the members of your family who are at work on the fields to cry out to those of the tribe
working not far from them: The mistletoe and the new year! Let every man, woman and child,
all without exception, meet this evening in the forest of Karnak at the rise of the moon. Let
those of the tribe who will have heard these words in turn repeat them aloud to those of the
other tribes who may also be at work on the fields, so that the call being repeated from mouth
to mouth, from one to another, from village to village, from town to town, from Vannes to Auray,
notify all the tribes to convene this evening at the forest of Karnak."

Joel did as ordered by the stranger in the name of the druids of Karnak. The call was carried
from mouth to mouth, from the nearest to the most distant tribes; all were notified to meet
that evening in the forest of Karnak when the moon rose.

While some of the brenn's family were hurriedly gathering in the wheat harvest that still remained
heaped on the fields, in order to deposit a portion of it in cellars that the laborers were
digging on dry ground, the women, the girls and even the children, all working under the direction
of Margarid, were as busily engaged disposing of salted meats into baskets, flour into bags,
hydromel and wine into pouches; others were filling coffers with lint and balsam for wounds;
others were adjusting broad and strong tent cloths over the chariots. In all wars considered
dangerous, the tribes threatened by the enemy, instead of waiting for, usually went out to
meet him. The houses were abandoned; the field oxen were hitched to the war-chariots, all of
which contained the women, the children, the clothes and the provisions of the combatants.
The horses, ridden by the full grown men of the tribe, constituted the cavalry. The young men,
being more agile, went on foot as an armed escort. The grain was hidden away; the cattle, let
loose, pastured where they pleased and returned instinctively every evening to their usual
stables. Generally, the wolves and bears devoured a part. The fields remained untended and
scarcity followed. Often the combatants who went to war in defence of their country, encouraged
by the presence of their wives and children, and having nothing to expect from the enemy but
disgrace, slavery or death, drove back the invader beyond their frontiers, and returned home
to repair the disasters of the fields.

Knowing that his daughter was due at the house, Joel returned home towards sun-down. He also
expected to be able to take a hand in the preparations for the war.

Hena, the virgin of the Isle of Sen, soon arrived. When her father, mother and other relatives
saw her enter it seemed to them never before had she been so beautiful. Never before did her
father feel so proud of his daughter. The long black tunic that she wore was held around her
waist by a brass belt, from which, on one side, hung a little gold sickle, and on the other
a crescent in the shape of the waning moon. Hena had dressed herself with special care in honor
of the celebration of her birthday. A necklace and gold bracelets inlaid with garnets ornamented
her arms and neck, whiter than the driven snow. When she took off her caped cloak it was noticed
that she wore, as ever at religious ceremonies, a crown of green oak leaves on her blonde hair,
plaited in braids over her chaste and mild forehead. The blue of the sea, when lying calmly
under a clear sky, was not purer than the blue of Hena's eyes.

The brenn stretched out his arms to his daughter. She ran into them joyously and offered him
her forehead, as she also did her mother. The children of the family loved Hena dearly and
contested with each other the privilege of being the first to kiss her hands--sought with greed
by all the little innocent mouths. Even old Deber-Trud gamboled and barked with joy at the
arrival of his young mistress.

Albinik the mariner was the first to whom Hena offered her forehead to kiss after her father
and mother; she had not seen her brother for a long time. Next came the turn of Guilhern and
Mikael and then the swarm of children, whom, stooping to them, Hena, sought to hold all together
in one embrace. The young priestess then tenderly greeted Henory, her brother Guilhern's wife,
and expressed her regret at not seeing Albinik's wife Meroë. Nor were the other relatives forgotten;
all, down to Stumpy, otherwise everyone's butt, had a kind word from her.

The general exchange of greetings being over, and happy at finding herself among her own, in
the house where she was born eighteen years before, Hena sat down at her mother's feet on the
same stool that she used to occupy when a child. When she saw her child seated at her feet,
Mamm' Margarid called the maid's attention to the disorder that reigned in the house due to
the preparations for war, and she said sadly:

"We should have celebrated this day of your birth with joy and tranquility, dear child! Instead,
you now find confusion and alarm in our house that soon will be deserted.... War threatens."

"Mother is right," answered Hena sighing; "Great is the anger of Hesus."

"And what say you, dear child, you who are a saint," inquired Joel, "a saint of the Isle of
Sen? What must we do to appease the wrath of the All-Powerful?"

"My father and mother honor me too much by calling me a saint," answered the young virgin.
"Like the druids, myself and my female companions have meditated all night under the shadows
of the sacred oak-trees at the hour of moon rise. We search for the simplest and divinest principles,
and seek to spread them among our fellow-beings. We adore the All-Powerful in His works, from
the mighty oak that is sacred to Him, down to the humble moss that grows on the rocks of our
isle; from the stars, whose eternal course we study, down to the insect that is born and dies
in one day; from the sourceless sea, down to the streamlet of water that glides under the grass.
We search for the cure of diseases that cause pain, and we glorify those among our fathers
and mothers who have shed lustre upon Gaul. By the knowledge of the auguries and the study
of the past, we seek to foresee the future to the end of enlightening those who are less clear-sighted
than ourselves. Finally, like the druids, we teach childhood, we inspire the child with an
ardent love of our common and beloved fatherland--so threatened to-day by the wrath of Hesus,
a wrath that comes down upon them because they have forgotten that they are all the children
of the same God, and that a brother must resent the wound inflicted upon his brother."

"The stranger who was our guest and whom this morning I took to the Isle of Sen," replied the
brenn, "spoke to us as you do, dear daughter."

"My father and mother may listen as sacred words to the words of the Chief of the Hundred Valleys.
Hesus and love for Gaul inspire him. He is brave among the bravest."

"He! Is he the Chief of the Hundred Valleys?" exclaimed Joel. "He refused to give me his name!
Do you know it, daughter? Do you know which is his native province?"

"He was impatiently waited for yesterday evening at the Isle of Sen by the venerable Talyessin.
As to his name, all that I am free to say to my father and mother is that the day on which
our country should be subjugated will also be the day when the Chief of the Hundred Valleys
will see the last drop of his blood flow from his veins. May the wrath of Hesus spare us that
disastrous day!"

"Oh, my daughter, if Hesus is angry, how are we to appease him?"

"By obeying the law. He has said--all men are the children of one God. By offering to him human
sacrifices.... May those that are to be offered to-night calm his wrath."

"The sacrifices of to-night?" asked the brenn; "which are they?"

"Do not my father and mother know that to-night, when the moon rises, there will be three human
sacrifices at the stones of the forest of Karnak?"

"We know," answered Joel, "that all the tribes have been convened to appear this evening at
the forest of Karnak. But who are the people that are to be sacrificed and will be pleasing
to Hesus, dear daughter?"

"First of all Daoulas the murderer: he killed Houarne without a fight and in his sleep. The
druids have sentenced him to die this evening. The blood of a cowardly murderer is an expiation
agreeable to Hesus."

"And the second sacrifice?"

"Our relative Julyan wishes, out of friendship, to rejoin Armel, whom he loyally killed in
a contest. This evening, glorified by the chant of the bards, he will go, agreeable to his
vow, and join Armel in the unknown worlds. The blood of a brave man, voluntarily offered to
Hesus, is agreeable to him."

"And the third sacrifice, dear child?" asked Mamm' Margarid; "Who is it?"

Hena did not answer. She dropped her blonde and charming head upon the knees of Margarid, remained
a while in a revery, kissed her mother's hands and said to her with a sweet smile that brought
back old remembrances:

"How often did not little Hena, when still a child, fall asleep of an evening on your knees,
mother, while you spun at your distaff, and when all of you now present, except Albinik, were
gathered at the hearth, narrating the virile virtues of our mothers and our fathers of old!"

"It is true, dear daughter," answered Margarid caressingly passing her hand over the blonde
hair of her child; "it is true. And here among us we all loved you so much for your good heart
and your infantine grace, that when we saw you had fallen asleep on my knees, we all spoke
in a low voice not to awake you."

Stumpy, who was among the crowd of relatives, put in:

"But who is that third human sacrifice, that is to appease Hesus and deliver us from war? Who,
Hena, is the third to be sacrificed this evening?"

"I shall tell you, Stumpy, when I shall have had a little time to meditate upon the past,"
answered the young maid dreamily, without leaving her mother's knees; and passing her hand
over her forehead as if to refreshen her memory, she looked around, pointed to the stone where
stood the copper bowl with the seven twigs of mistletoe and proceeded saying:

"When I was twelve, do my father and mother remember how happy I was at having been selected
by the female druids of the Isle of Sen to receive in a veil of linen, whitened in the dew
of night, the mistletoe which the druids cut with a gold sickle at the moment when the moon
shed its clearest light? Do my father and mother remember how, bringing home the mistletoe
to sanctify our home, I was taken hither by the ewaghs in a chariot decked with flowers and
greens while the bards sang the glory of Hesus? What tender embraces did not my whole family
lavish upon me at my return! What a feast it was in our tribe!"

"Dear, dear daughter," said Margarid pressing Hena's head against her maternal breast, "if
the female druids chose you to receive the sacred mistletoe in a linen veil, it was because
your soul was as pure as the veil."

"It was because little Hena was the bravest of all her companions, she almost perished in the
attempt to save Janed, the daughter of Wor, who, as she was gathering shells on the rocks along
the shore of Glen'-Hek, fell into the water and was being carried away by the waves," said
Mikael the armorer, tenderly contemplating his sister.

"It was because, beyond all others, little Hena was sweet, patient and kind to the children;
it was because, when only twelve, she instructed them like at matron at the cottage of the
female druids of the Isle of Sen," said Guilhern in his turn. And stepping towards the door
of the chamber, she stopped for a moment at the threshold and said:

"What sweet nights have I spent there after retiring for the evening, regretful of leaving
you! With what impatience did I not rise in the morning to meet you again!"

Taking two steps into the little chamber, while her family felt ever more astonished at hearing
Hena, still so young, thus dwell upon the past, the young maid proceeded, taking up several
articles that lay upon a little table:

"This is the sea-shell necklace that I entertained myself making in the evening sitting beside
my mother.... These are the little dried twigs that resemble trees, and that I gathered from
our rocks.... This is the net which I used when the tide was going out to catch little fishes
with; how the sport used to amuse me!... There are the rolls of white skin on which, every
time I came here, I recorded my joy at meeting my relatives and again seeing the house of my
birth.... I find everything in its place. I am glad of having gathered these young girl's treasures."
"I shall let you know after I shall have distributed my little treasures among you all,--you
among them, Stumpy."

Saying this, the daughter of the brenn motioned to her relatives to enter the chamber, and
in the midst of the silent astonishment of all she gave a souvenir to each. Each, even of the
little ones who loved her so much and also Stumpy received something. In order to make her
gifts reach around, she loosened the sea-shell necklace and split up the dry twigs, saying
in her sweet voice to each:

"Keep this, I pray you, out of friendship for Hena, your relative and friend."

Joel, his wife and his three children, to all of whom Hena had not yet given aught, looked
at one another all the more astonished at what she did, seeing that towards the end tears appeared
in her eyes although the young maid gave no other token of sadness. When all the others were
supplied, Hena took from her neck the garnet necklace that she wore and said to Margarid while
kissing her hand:

"Hena prays her mother to keep this out of love for her."

She then took the little rolls of white skin that had been prepared for writing on, handed
them to Joel and kissing his hand said:

"Hena prays her father to keep this roll out of love for her; he will there find her most cherished
thoughts."

Detaching thereupon from her arm her two garnet bracelets, Hena said to the wife of her brother
Guilhern, the laborer:

"Hena prays her sister Henory to wear this bracelet out of love for her."

And giving the other bracelet to her brother the mariner she said:

"Your wife, Meroë, whom I love as much for her courage as for her noble heart, is to keep this
bracelet as a souvenir from me."

Hena then took from her copper belt the little gold sickle and crescent that hung from it.
She tendered the former to Guilhern the laborer, the second to Albinik the mariner, and taking
a ring from her finger she gave it to Mikael the armorer, saying to the three:

"I wish my brothers to preserve these keepsakes out of love for their sister Hena."

All those present remained astonished and holding in their hands the gifts that the virgin
of the Isle of Sen had delivered to them. They all remained standing and so speechless with
astonishment that none could utter a word, but looked uneasily at one another as if threatened
by some unknown disaster. Hena finally turned to Stumpy:

"Stumpy," said she, "I shall now let you know who is to be the third sacrifice of this evening;"
and taking the hands of Joel and Margarid she gently led them back into the large hall, whither
all the others followed. Arrived there, Hena addressed her parents and assembled relatives:

"My father and mother know that the blood of a cowardly murderer is an expiatory offering to
Hesus, and that it might appease him--"

"Yes--you told us so, dear daughter."

"They also know that the blood of a brave man who dies in pledge of friendship is a valorous
offering to Hesus, and that it might appease him."

"Yes--you told us so, dear daughter."

"Finally, my father and mother know that the most acceptable of all offerings to Hesus and
most likely to appease him is the innocent blood of a virgin, happy and proud at the thought
of offering her blood to Hesus, and of doing so voluntarily--voluntarily--in the hope that
that all-powerful god may deliver our beloved fatherland, this dear and sacred fatherland of
our fathers, from foreign oppression!... Thus the innocent blood of a virgin will flow this
evening to appease the wrath of Hesus."

"And her name?" asked Stumpy, "the name of that virgin who is to deliver us from war!"

Hena looked towards her father and mother with tenderness and serenity and said:

"The virgin who is to die is one of the nine female druids of the Isle of Sen. Her name is
Hena. She is the daughter of Margarid and Joel, the brenn of the tribe of Karnak!"

Deep silence fell upon the family of Joel. None, not one present, expected to see Hena travel
so soon yonder. None, not one present, neither her father, nor her mother, nor her brothers,
nor any of her other relatives, was prepared for the farewells of the sudden journey.

The children joined their little hands and said weeping:

"What!... Leave us so soon?... Our Hena?... Why do you journey away?"

The father and mother looked at each other and sighed.

Margarid said to Hena: "Joel and Margarid believed that they would have to wait for their dear
daughter in those unknown worlds, where we continue to live and where we meet again those whom
we have loved here.... But it is to be otherwise. It is Hena who will precede us."

"And perhaps," said the brenn, "our sweet and dear daughter will not long have to wait for us--"

"May her blood, innocent and pure as a lamb's, appease the wrath of Hesus!" added Margarid;
"May we soon be able to follow our dear daughter and inform her that Gaul is delivered from
the stranger."

