And, as if in answer to his remark, the archers began once more to advance against the barricade,
and the arrows to fall thick.  But there was something hesitating in the attack.  They came
not on roundly, but seemed rather to await a further signal.

Dick looked uneasily about him, spying for a hidden danger.  And sure enough, about half way
up the little street, a door was suddenly opened from within, and the house continued, for
some seconds, and both by door and window, to disgorge a torrent of Lancastrian archers.  These,
as they leaped down, hurriedly stood to their ranks, bent their bows, and proceeded to pour
upon Dick's rear a flight of arrows.

At the same time, the assailants in the market-place redoubled their shot, and began to close
in stoutly upon the barricade.

Dick called down his whole command out of the houses, and facing them both ways, and encouraging
their valour both by word and gesture, returned as best he could the double shower of shafts
that fell about his post.

Meanwhile house after house was opened in the street, and the Lancastrians continued to pour
out of the doors and leap down from the windows, shouting victory, until the number of enemies
upon Dick's rear was almost equal to the number in his face.  It was plain that he could hold
the post no longer; what was worse, even if he could have held it, it had now become useless;
and the whole Yorkist army lay in a posture of helplessness upon the brink of a complete disaster.

The men behind him formed the vital flaw in the general defence; and it was upon these that
Dick turned, charging at the head of his men.  So vigorous was the attack, that the Lancastrian
archers gave ground and staggered, and, at last, breaking their ranks, began to crowd back
into the houses from which they had so recently and so vaingloriously sallied.

Meanwhile the men from the market-place had swarmed across the undefended barricade, and fell
on hotly upon the other side; and Dick must once again face about, and proceed to drive them
back.  Once again the spirit of his men prevailed; they cleared the street in a triumphant
style, but even as they did so the others issued again out of the houses, and took them, a
third time, upon the rear.

The Yorkists began to be scattered; several times Dick found himself alone among his foes and
plying his bright sword for life; several times he was conscious of a hurt.  And meanwhile
the fight swayed to and fro in the street without determinate result.

Suddenly Dick was aware of a great trumpeting about the outskirts of the town.  The war-cry
of York began to be rolled up to heaven, as by many and triumphant voices.  And at the same
time the men in front of him began to give ground rapidly, streaming out of the street and
back upon the market-place.  Some one gave the word to fly.  Trumpets were blown distractedly,
some for a rally, some to charge.  It was plain that a great blow had been struck, and the
Lancastrians were thrown, at least for the moment, into full disorder, and some degree of panic.

And then, like a theatre trick, there followed the last act of Shoreby Battle.  The men in
front of Richard turned tail, like a dog that has been whistled home, and fled like the wind.
At the same moment there came through the market-place a storm of horsemen, fleeing and pursuing,
the Lancastrians turning back to strike with the sword, the Yorkists riding them down at the
point of the lance.

Conspicuous in the mellay, Dick beheld the Crookback.  He was already giving a foretaste of
that furious valour and skill to cut his way across the ranks of war, which, years afterwards
upon the field of Bosworth, and when he was stained with crimes, almost sufficed to change
the fortunes of the day and the destiny of the English throne.  Evading, striking, riding down,
he so forced and so manoeuvred his strong horse, so aptly defended himself, and so liberally
scattered death to his opponents, that he was now far ahead of the foremost of his knights,
hewing his way, with the truncheon of a bloody sword, to where Lord Risingham was rallying
the bravest.  A moment more and they had met; the tall, splendid, and famous warrior against
the deformed and sickly boy.

Yet Shelton had never a doubt of the result; and when the fight next opened for a moment, the
figure of the earl had disappeared; but still, in the first of the danger, Crookback Dick was
launching his big horse and plying the truncheon of his sword.

Thus, by Shelton's courage in holding the mouth of the street against the first attack, and
by the opportune arrival of his seven hundred reinforcements, the lad, who was afterwards to
be handed down to the execration of posterity under the name of Richard III., had won his first
considerable fight.

CHAPTER IV--THE SACK OF SHOREBY

There was not a foe left within striking distance; and Dick, as he looked ruefully about him
on the remainder of his gallant force, began to count the cost of victory.  He was himself,
now that the danger was ended, so stiff and sore, so bruised and cut and broken, and, above
all, so utterly exhausted by his desperate and unremitting labours in the fight, that he seemed
incapable of any fresh exertion.

But this was not yet the hour for repose.  Shoreby had been taken by assault; and though an
open town, and not in any manner to be charged with the resistance, it was plain that these
rough fighters would be not less rough now that the fight was over, and that the more horrid
part of war would fall to be enacted.  Richard of Gloucester was not the captain to protect
the citizens from his infuriated soldiery; and even if he had the will, it might be questioned
if he had the power.

It was, therefore, Dick's business to find and to protect Joanna; and with that end he looked
about him at the faces of his men.  The three or four who seemed likeliest to be obedient and
to keep sober he drew aside; and promising them a rich reward and a special recommendation
to the duke, led them across the market-place, now empty of horsemen, and into the streets
upon the further side.

Every here and there small combats of from two to a dozen still raged upon the open street;
here and there a house was being besieged, the defenders throwing out stools and tables on
the heads of the assailants. The snow was strewn with arms and corpses; but except for these
partial combats the streets were deserted, and the houses, some standing open, and some shuttered
and barricaded, had for the most part ceased to give out smoke.

Dick, threading the skirts of these skirmishers, led his followers briskly in the direction
of the abbey church; but when he came the length of the main street, a cry of horror broke
from his lips.  Sir Daniel's great house had been carried by assault.  The gates hung in splinters
from the hinges, and a double throng kept pouring in and out through the entrance, seeking
and carrying booty.  Meanwhile, in the upper storeys, some resistance was still being offered
to the pillagers; for just as Dick came within eyeshot of the building, a casement was burst
open from within, and a poor wretch in murrey and blue, screaming and resisting, was forced
through the embrasure and tossed into the street below.

The most sickening apprehension fell upon Dick.  He ran forward like one possessed, forced
his way into the house among the foremost, and mounted without pause to the chamber on the
third floor where he had last parted from Joanna.  It was a mere wreck; the furniture had been
overthrown, the cupboards broken open, and in one place a trailing corner of the arras lay
smouldering on the embers of the fire.

Dick, almost without thinking, trod out the incipient conflagration, and then stood bewildered.
Sir Daniel, Sir Oliver, Joanna, all were gone; but whether butchered in the rout or safe escaped
from Shoreby, who should say?

He caught a passing archer by the tabard.

"Fellow," he asked, "were ye here when this house was taken?"

"Let be," said the archer.  "A murrain! let be, or I strike."

"Hark ye," returned Richard, "two can play at that.  Stand and be plain."

But the man, flushed with drink and battle, struck Dick upon the shoulder with one hand, while
with the other he twitched away his garment. Thereupon the full wrath of the young leader burst
from his control.  He seized the fellow in his strong embrace, and crushed him on the plates
of his mailed bosom like a child; then, holding him at arm's length, he bid him speak as he
valued life.

"I pray you mercy!" gasped the archer.  "An I had thought ye were so angry I would 'a' been
charier of crossing you.  I was here indeed."

"Know ye Sir Daniel?" pursued Dick.

"Well do I know him," returned the man.

"Was he in the mansion?"

"Ay, sir, he was," answered the archer; "but even as we entered by the yard gate he rode forth
by the garden."

"Alone?" cried Dick.

"He may 'a' had a score of lances with him," said the man.

"Lances!  No women, then?" asked Shelton.

"Troth, I saw not," said the archer.  "But there were none in the house, if that be your quest."

"I thank you," said Dick.  "Here is a piece for your pains."  But groping in his wallet, Dick
found nothing.  "Inquire for me to-morrow," he added--"Richard Shelt--Sir Richard Shelton,"
he corrected, "and I will see you handsomely rewarded."

And then an idea struck Dick.  He hastily descended to the courtyard, ran with all his might
across the garden, and came to the great door of the church.  It stood wide open; within, every
corner of the pavement was crowded with fugitive burghers, surrounded by their families and
laden with the most precious of their possessions, while, at the high altar, priests in full
canonicals were imploring the mercy of God.  Even as Dick entered, the loud chorus began to
thunder in the vaulted roofs.

He hurried through the groups of refugees, and came to the door of the stair that led into
the steeple.  And here a tall churchman stepped before him and arrested his advance.

"Whither, my son?" he asked, severely.

"My father," answered Dick, "I am here upon an errand of expedition. Stay me not.  I command
here for my Lord of Gloucester."

"For my Lord of Gloucester?" repeated the priest.  "Hath, then, the battle gone so sore?"

"The battle, father, is at an end, Lancaster clean sped, my Lord of Risingham--Heaven rest
him!--left upon the field.  And now, with your good leave, I follow mine affairs."  And thrusting
on one side the priest, who seemed stupefied at the news, Dick pushed open the door and rattled
up the stairs four at a bound, and without pause or stumble, till he stepped upon the open
platform at the top.

Shoreby Church tower not only commanded the town, as in a map, but looked far, on both sides,
over sea and land.  It was now near upon noon; the day exceeding bright, the snow dazzling.
And as Dick looked around him, he could measure the consequences of the battle.

A confused, growling uproar reached him from the streets, and now and then, but very rarely,
the clash of steel.  Not a ship, not so much as a skiff remained in harbour; but the sea was
dotted with sails and row-boats laden with fugitives.  On shore, too, the surface of the snowy
meadows was broken up with bands of horsemen, some cutting their way towards the borders of
the forest, others, who were doubtless of the Yorkist side, stoutly interposing and beating
them back upon the town. Over all the open ground there lay a prodigious quantity of fallen
men and horses, clearly defined upon the snow.

To complete the picture, those of the foot soldiers as had not found place upon a ship still
kept up an archery combat on the borders of the port, and from the cover of the shoreside taverns.
In that quarter, also, one or two houses had been fired, and the smoke towered high in the
frosty sunlight, and blew off to sea in voluminous folds.

Already close upon the margin of the woods, and somewhat in the line of Holywood, one particular
clump of fleeing horsemen riveted the attention of the young watcher on the tower.  It was
fairly numerous; in no other quarter of the field did so many Lancastrians still hold together;
thus they had left a wide, discoloured wake upon the snow, and Dick was able to trace them
step by step from where they had left the town.

While Dick stood watching them, they had gained, unopposed, the first fringe of the leafless
forest, and, turning a little from their direction, the sun fell for a moment full on their
array, as it was relieved against the dusky wood.

"Murrey and blue!" cried Dick.  "I swear it--murrey and blue!"

The next moment he was descending the stairway.

It was now his business to seek out the Duke of Gloucester, who alone, in the disorder of the
forces, might be able to supply him with a sufficiency of men.  The fighting in the main town
was now practically at an end; and as Dick ran hither and thither, seeking the commander, the
streets were thick with wandering soldiers, some laden with more booty than they could well
stagger under, others shouting drunk.  None of them, when questioned, had the least notion
of the duke's whereabouts; and, at last, it was by sheer good fortune that Dick found him,
where he sat in the saddle directing operations to dislodge the archers from the harbour side.

"Sir Richard Shelton, ye are well found," he said.  "I owe you one thing that I value little,
my life; and one that I can never pay you for, this victory.  Catesby, if I had ten such captains
as Sir Richard, I would march forthright on London.  But now, sir, claim your reward."

"Freely, my lord," said Dick, "freely and loudly.  One hath escaped to whom I owe some grudges,
and taken with him one whom I owe love and service.  Give me, then, fifty lances, that I may
pursue; and for any obligation that your graciousness is pleased to allow, it shall be clean
discharged."

"How call ye him?" inquired the duke.

"Sir Daniel Brackley," answered Richard.

"Out upon him, double-face!" cried Gloucester.  "Here is no reward, Sir Richard; here is fresh
service offered, and, if that ye bring his head to me, a fresh debt upon my conscience.  Catesby,
get him these lances; and you, sir, bethink ye, in the meanwhile, what pleasure, honour, or
profit it shall be mine to give you."

Just then the Yorkist skirmishers carried one of the shoreside taverns, swarming in upon it
on three sides, and driving out or taking its defenders.  Crookback Dick was pleased to cheer
the exploit, and pushing his horse a little nearer, called to see the prisoners.

There were four or five of them--two men of my Lord Shoreby's and one of Lord Risingham's among
the number, and last, but in Dick's eyes not least, a tall, shambling, grizzled old shipman,
between drunk and sober, and with a dog whimpering and jumping at his heels.

The young duke passed them for a moment under a severe review.

"Good," he said.  "Hang them."

And he turned the other way to watch the progress of the fight.

"My lord," said Dick, "so please you, I have found my reward.  Grant me the life and liberty
of yon old shipman."

Gloucester turned and looked the speaker in the face.

"Sir Richard," he said, "I make not war with peacock's feathers, but steel shafts.  Those that
are mine enemies I slay, and that without excuse or favour.  For, bethink ye, in this realm
of England, that is so torn in pieces, there is not a man of mine but hath a brother or a friend
upon the other party.  If, then, I did begin to grant these pardons, I might sheathe my sword."

"It may be so, my lord; and yet I will be overbold, and at the risk of your disfavour, recall
your lordship's promise," replied Dick.

Richard of Gloucester flushed.

"Mark it right well," he said, harshly.  "I love not mercy, nor yet mercymongers.  Ye have
this day laid the foundations of high fortune.  If ye oppose to me my word, which I have plighted,
I will yield.  But, by the glory of heaven, there your favour dies!

"Mine is the loss," said Dick.

"Give him his sailor," said the duke; and wheeling his horse, he turned his back upon young
Shelton.

Dick was nor glad nor sorry.  He had seen too much of the young duke to set great store on
his affection; and the origin and growth of his own favour had been too flimsy and too rapid
to inspire much confidence.  One thing alone he feared--that the vindictive leader might revoke
the offer of the lances.  But here he did justice neither to Gloucester's honour (such as it
was) nor, above all, to his decision.  If he had once judged Dick to be the right man to pursue
Sir Daniel, he was not one to change; and he soon proved it by shouting after Catesby to be
speedy, for the paladin was waiting.

In the meanwhile, Dick turned to the old shipman, who had seemed equally indifferent to his
condemnation and to his subsequent release.

"Arblaster," said Dick, "I have done you ill; but now, by the rood, I think I have cleared
the score."

But the old skipper only looked upon him dully and held his peace.

"Come," continued Dick, "a life is a life, old shrew, and it is more than ships or liquor.

But there was no time left to him for vain regret.

Catesby had now collected the horsemen, and riding up to Dick he dismounted, and offered him
his own horse.

"This morning," he said, "I was somewhat jealous of your favour; it hath not been of a long
growth; and now, Sir Richard, it is with a very good heart that I offer you this horse--to
ride away with."

"Suffer me yet a moment," replied Dick.  "This favour of mine--whereupon was it founded?"

"Upon your name," answered Catesby.  "It is my lord's chief superstition. Were my name Richard,
I should be an earl to-morrow."

"Well, sir, I thank you," returned Dick; "and since I am little likely to follow these great
fortunes, I will even say farewell.  I will not pretend I was displeased to think myself upon
the road to fortune; but I will not pretend, neither, that I am over-sorry to be done with
it. Command and riches, they are brave things, to be sure; but a word in your ear--yon duke
of yours, he is a fearsome lad."

Catesby laughed.

"Nay," said he, "of a verity he that rides with Crooked Dick will ride deep.  Well, God keep
us all from evil!  Speed ye well."

Thereupon Dick put himself at the head of his men, and giving the word of command, rode off.

He made straight across the town, following what he supposed to be the route of Sir Daniel,
and spying around for any signs that might decide if he were right.

The streets were strewn with the dead and the wounded, whose fate, in the bitter frost, was
far the more pitiable.  Gangs of the victors went from house to house, pillaging and stabbing,
and sometimes singing together as they went.

From different quarters, as he rode on, the sounds of violence and outrage came to young Shelton's
ears; now the blows of the sledge-hammer on some barricaded door, and now the miserable shrieks
of women.

Dick's heart had just been awakened.  He had just seen the cruel consequences of his own behaviour;
and the thought of the sum of misery that was now acting in the whole of Shoreby filled him
with despair.

At length he reached the outskirts, and there, sure enough, he saw straight before him the
same broad, beaten track across the snow that he had marked from the summit of the church.
Here, then, he went the faster on; but still, as he rode, he kept a bright eye upon the fallen
men and horses that lay beside the track.  Many of these, he was relieved to see, wore Sir
Daniel's colours, and the faces of some, who lay upon their back, he even recognised.

About half-way between the town and the forest, those whom he was following had plainly been
assailed by archers; for the corpses lay pretty closely scattered, each pierced by an arrow.
And here Dick spied among the rest the body of a very young lad, whose face was somehow hauntingly
familiar to him.

He halted his troop, dismounted, and raised the lad's head.  As he did so, the hood fell back,
and a profusion of long brown hair unrolled itself.  At the same time the eyes opened.

"Ah! lion driver!" said a feeble voice.  "She is farther on.  Ride--ride fast!"

And then the poor young lady fainted once again.

One of Dick's men carried a flask of some strong cordial, and with this Dick succeeded in reviving
consciousness.  Then he took Joanna's friend upon his saddlebow, and once more pushed toward
the forest.

"Why do ye take me?" said the girl.  "Ye but delay your speed."

"Nay, Mistress Risingham," replied Dick.  "Shoreby is full of blood and drunkenness and riot.
Here ye are safe; content ye."

"I will not be beholden to any of your faction," she cried; "set me down."

"Madam, ye know not what ye say," returned Dick.  "Y' are hurt"--

"I am not," she said.  "It was my horse was slain."

"It matters not one jot," replied Richard.  "Ye are here in the midst of open snow, and compassed
about with enemies.  Whether ye will or not, I carry you with me.  Glad am I to have the occasion;
for thus shall I repay some portion of our debt."

For a little while she was silent.  Then, very suddenly, she asked:

"My uncle?"

"My Lord Risingham?" returned Dick.  "I would I had good news to give you, madam; but I have
none.  I saw him once in the battle, and once only.  Let us hope the best."

CHAPTER V--NIGHT IN THE WOODS: ALICIA RISINGHAM

It was almost certain that Sir Daniel had made for the Moat House; but, considering the heavy
snow, the lateness of the hour, and the necessity under which he would lie of avoiding the
few roads and striking across the wood, it was equally certain that he could not hope to reach
it ere the morrow.

There were two courses open to Dick; either to continue to follow in the knight's trail, and,
if he were able, to fall upon him that very night in camp, or to strike out a path of his own,
and seek to place himself between Sir Daniel and his destination.

Either scheme was open to serious objection, and Dick, who feared to expose Joanna to the hazards
of a fight, had not yet decided between them when he reached the borders of the wood.

At this point Sir Daniel had turned a little to his left, and then plunged straight under a
grove of very lofty timber.  His party had then formed to a narrower front, in order to pass
between the trees, and the track was trod proportionally deeper in the snow.  The eye followed
it under the leafless tracery of the oaks, running direct and narrow; the trees stood over
it, with knotty joints and the great, uplifted forest of their boughs; there was no sound,
whether of man or beast--not so much as the stirring of a robin; and over the field of snow
the winter sun lay golden among netted shadows.

"How say ye," asked Dick of one of the men, "to follow straight on, or strike across for Tunstall?"

"Sir Richard," replied the man-at-arms, "I would follow the line until they scatter."

"Ye are, doubtless, right," returned Dick; "but we came right hastily upon the errand, even
as the time commanded.  Here are no houses, neither for food nor shelter, and by the morrow's
dawn we shall know both cold fingers and an empty belly.  How say ye, lads?  Will ye stand
a pinch for expedition's sake, or shall we turn by Holywood and sup with Mother Church?  The
case being somewhat doubtful, I will drive no man; yet if ye would suffer me to lead you, ye
would choose the first."

The men answered, almost with one voice, that they would follow Sir Richard where he would.

And Dick, setting spur to his horse, began once more to go forward.

The snow in the trail had been trodden very hard, and the pursuers had thus a great advantage
over the pursued.  They pushed on, indeed, at a round trot, two hundred hoofs beating alternately
on the dull pavement of the snow, and the jingle of weapons and the snorting of horses raising
a warlike noise along the arches of the silent wood.

Presently, the wide slot of the pursued came out upon the high road from Holywood; it was there,
for a moment, indistinguishable; and, where it once more plunged into the unbeaten snow upon
the farther side, Dick was surprised to see it narrower and lighter trod.  Plainly, profiting
by the road, Sir Daniel had begun already to scatter his command.

At all hazards, one chance being equal to another, Dick continued to pursue the straight trail;
and that, after an hour's riding, in which it led into the very depths of the forest, suddenly
split, like a bursting shell, into two dozen others, leading to every point of the compass.

Dick drew bridle in despair.  The short winter's day was near an end; the sun, a dull red orange,
shorn of rays, swam low among the leafless thickets; the shadows were a mile long upon the
snow; the frost bit cruelly at the finger-nails; and the breath and steam of the horses mounted
in a cloud.

"Well, we are outwitted," Dick confessed.  "Strike we for Holywood, after all.  It is still
nearer us than Tunstall--or should be by the station of the sun."

So they wheeled to their left, turning their backs on the red shield of sun, and made across
country for the abbey.  But now times were changed with them; they could no longer spank forth
briskly on a path beaten firm by the passage of their foes, and for a goal to which that path
itself conducted them.  Now they must plough at a dull pace through the encumbering snow, continually
pausing to decide their course, continually floundering in drifts.  The sun soon left them;
the glow of the west decayed; and presently they were wandering in a shadow of blackness, under
frosty stars.

Presently, indeed, the moon would clear the hilltops, and they might resume their march.  But
till then, every random step might carry them wider of their march.  There was nothing for
it but to camp and wait.

Sentries were posted; a spot of ground was cleared of snow, and, after some failures, a good
fire blazed in the midst.  The men-at-arms sat close about this forest hearth, sharing such
provisions as they had, and passing about the flask; and Dick, having collected the most delicate
of the rough and scanty fare, brought it to Lord Risingham's niece, where she sat apart from
the soldiery against a tree.

She sat upon one horse-cloth, wrapped in another, and stared straight before her at the firelit
scene.  At the offer of food she started, like one wakened from a dream, and then silently refused.

"Madam," said Dick, "let me beseech you, punish me not so cruelly. Wherein I have offended
you, I know not; I have, indeed, carried you away, but with a friendly violence; I have, indeed,
exposed you to the inclemency of night, but the hurry that lies upon me hath for its end the
preservation of another, who is no less frail and no less unfriended than yourself.  At least,
madam, punish not yourself; and eat, if not for hunger, then for strength."

"I will eat nothing at the hands that slew my kinsman," she replied.

"Dear madam," Dick cried, "I swear to you upon the rood I touched him not."

"Swear to me that he still lives," she returned.

"I will not palter with you," answered Dick.  "Pity bids me to wound you. In my heart I do
believe him dead."

"And ye ask me to eat!" she cried.  "Ay, and they call you 'sir!'  Y' have won your spurs by
my good kinsman's murder.  And had I not been fool and traitor both, and saved you in your
enemy's house, ye should have died the death, and he--he that was worth twelve of you--were
living."

"I did but my man's best, even as your kinsman did upon the other party," answered Dick.  "Were
he still living--as I vow to Heaven I wish it!--he would praise, not blame me."

"Sir Daniel hath told me," she replied.  "He marked you at the barricade. Upon you, he saith,
their party foundered; it was you that won the battle.  Well, then, it was you that killed
my good Lord Risingham, as sure as though ye had strangled him.  And ye would have me eat with
you--and your hands not washed from killing?  But Sir Daniel hath sworn your downfall.  He
'tis that will avenge me!"

The unfortunate Dick was plunged in gloom.  Old Arblaster returned upon his mind, and he groaned
aloud.

"Do ye hold me so guilty?" he said; "you that defended me--you that are Joanna's friend?"

"What made ye in the battle?" she retorted.  "Y' are of no party; y' are but a lad--but legs
and body, without government of wit or counsel! Wherefore did ye fight?  For the love of hurt,
pardy!"

"Nay," cried Dick, "I know not.  But as the realm of England goes, if that a poor gentleman
fight not upon the one side, perforce he must fight upon the other.  He may not stand alone;
'tis not in nature."

"They that have no judgment should not draw the sword," replied the young lady.  "Ye that fight
but for a hazard, what are ye but a butcher?  War is but noble by the cause, and y' have disgraced
it."

"Madam," said the miserable Dick, "I do partly see mine error.  I have made too much haste;
I have been busy before my time.  Already I stole a ship--thinking, I do swear it, to do well--and
thereby brought about the death of many innocent, and the grief and ruin of a poor old man
whose face this very day hath stabbed me like a dagger.  And for this morning, I did but design
to do myself credit, and get fame to marry with, and, behold! I have brought about the death
of your dear kinsman that was good to me.  And what besides, I know not.  For, alas! I may
have set York upon the throne, and that may be the worser cause, and may do hurt to England.
O, madam, I do see my sin.  I am unfit for life.  I will, for penance sake and to avoid worse
evil, once I have finished this adventure, get me to a cloister.  I will forswear Joanna and
the trade of arms.  I will be a friar, and pray for your good kinsman's spirit all my days."

It appeared to Dick, in this extremity of his humiliation and repentance, that the young lady
had laughed.

Raising his countenance, he found her looking down upon him, in the fire-light, with a somewhat
peculiar but not unkind expression.

"Madam," he cried, thinking the laughter to have been an illusion of his hearing, but still,
from her changed looks, hoping to have touched her heart, "madam, will not this content you?
I give up all to undo what I have done amiss; I make heaven certain for Lord Risingham.  And
all this upon the very day that I have won my spurs, and thought myself the happiest young
gentleman on ground."

"O boy," she said--"good boy!"

And then, to the extreme surprise of Dick, she first very tenderly wiped the tears away from
his cheeks, and then, as if yielding to a sudden impulse, threw both her arms about his neck,
drew up his face, and kissed him.  A pitiful bewilderment came over simple-minded Dick.

"But come," she said, with great cheerfulness, "you that are a captain, ye must eat.  Why sup
ye not?"

"Dear Mistress Risingham," replied Dick, "I did but wait first upon my prisoner; but, to say
truth, penitence will no longer suffer me to endure the sight of food.  I were better to fast,
dear lady, and to pray."

"Call me Alicia," she said; "are we not old friends?  And now, come, I will eat with you, bit
for bit and sup for sup; so if ye eat not, neither will I; but if ye eat hearty, I will dine
like a ploughman."

So there and then she fell to; and Dick, who had an excellent stomach, proceeded to bear her
company, at first with great reluctance, but gradually, as he entered into the spirit, with
more and more vigour and devotion: until, at last, he forgot even to watch his model, and most
heartily repaired the expenses of his day of labour and excitement.

"Lion-driver," she said, at length, "ye do not admire a maid in a man's jerkin?"

The moon was now up; and they were only waiting to repose the wearied horses.  By the moon's
light, the still penitent but now well-fed Richard beheld her looking somewhat coquettishly
down upon him.

"Madam"--he stammered, surprised at this new turn in her manners.

"Nay," she interrupted, "it skills not to deny; Joanna hath told me, but come, Sir Lion-driver,
look at me--am I so homely--come!"

And she made bright eyes at him.

"Ye are something smallish, indeed"--began Dick.

And here again she interrupted him, this time with a ringing peal of laughter that completed
his confusion and surprise.

"Smallish!" she cried.  "Nay, now, be honest as ye are bold; I am a dwarf, or little better;
but for all that--come, tell me!--for all that, passably fair to look upon; is't not so?"

"Nay, madam, exceedingly fair," said the distressed knight, pitifully trying to seem easy.

"And a man would be right glad to wed me?" she pursued.

"O, madam, right glad!" agreed Dick.

"Call me Alicia," said she.

"Alicia," quoth Sir Richard.

"Well, then, lion-driver," she continued, "sith that ye slew my kinsman, and left me without
stay, ye owe me, in honour, every reparation; do ye not?"

"I do, madam," said Dick.  "Although, upon my heart, I do hold me but partially guilty of that
brave knight's blood."

"Would ye evade me?" she cried.

"Madam, not so.  I have told you; at your bidding, I will even turn me a monk," said Richard.

"Then, in honour, ye belong to me?" she concluded.

"In honour, madam, I suppose"--began the young man.

"Go to!" she interrupted; "ye are too full of catches.  In honour do ye belong to me, till
ye have paid the evil?"

"In honour, I do," said Dick.

"Hear, then," she continued; "Ye would make but a sad friar, methinks; and since I am to dispose
of you at pleasure, I will even take you for my husband.  Nay, now, no words!" cried she. 
"They will avail you nothing. For see how just it is, that you who deprived me of one home,
should supply me with another.  And as for Joanna, she will be the first, believe me, to commend
the change; for, after all, as we be dear friends, what matters it with which of us ye wed?
Not one whit!"

"Madam," said Dick, "I will go into a cloister, an ye please to bid me; but to wed with anyone
in this big world besides Joanna Sedley is what I will consent to neither for man's force nor
yet for lady's pleasure. Pardon me if I speak my plain thoughts plainly; but where a maid is
very bold, a poor man must even be the bolder."

"Dick," she said, "ye sweet boy, ye must come and kiss me for that word. Nay, fear not, ye
shall kiss me for Joanna; and when we meet, I shall give it back to her, and say I stole it.
And as for what ye owe me, why, dear simpleton, methinks ye were not alone in that great battle;
and even if York be on the throne, it was not you that set him there.  But for a good, sweet,
honest heart, Dick, y' are all that; and if I could find it in my soul to envy your Joanna
anything, I would even envy her your love."

CHAPTER VI--NIGHT IN THE WOODS (concluded): DICK AND JOAN

The horses had by this time finished the small store of provender, and fully breathed from
their fatigues.  At Dick's command, the fire was smothered in snow; and while his men got once
more wearily to saddle, he himself, remembering, somewhat late, true woodland caution, chose
a tall oak and nimbly clambered to the topmost fork.  Hence he could look far abroad on the
moonlit and snow-paven forest.  On the south-west, dark against the horizon, stood those upland,
heathy quarters where he and Joanna had met with the terrifying misadventure of the leper.
And there his eye was caught by a spot of ruddy brightness no bigger than a needle's eye.

He blamed himself sharply for his previous neglect.  Were that, as it appeared to be, the shining
of Sir Daniel's camp-fire, he should long ago have seen and marched for it; above all, he should,
for no consideration, have announced his neighbourhood by lighting a fire of his own.  But
now he must no longer squander valuable hours.  The direct way to the uplands was about two
miles in length; but it was crossed by a very deep, precipitous dingle, impassable to mounted
men; and for the sake of speed, it seemed to Dick advisable to desert the horses and attempt
the adventure on foot.

Ten men were left to guard the horses; signals were agreed upon by which they could communicate
in case of need; and Dick set forth at the head of the remainder, Alicia Risingham walking
stoutly by his side.

The men had freed themselves of heavy armour, and left behind their lances; and they now marched
with a very good spirit in the frozen snow, and under the exhilarating lustre of the moon.
The descent into the dingle, where a stream strained sobbing through the snow and ice, was
effected with silence and order; and on the further side, being then within a short half mile
of where Dick had seen the glimmer of the fire, the party halted to breathe before the attack.

In the vast silence of the wood, the lightest sounds were audible from far; and Alicia, who
was keen of hearing, held up her finger warningly and stooped to listen.  All followed her
example; but besides the groans of the choked brook in the dingle close behind, and the barking
of a fox at a distance of many miles among the forest, to Dick's acutest hearkening, not a
breath was audible.

"But yet, for sure, I heard the clash of harness," whispered Alicia.

"Madam," returned Dick, who was more afraid of that young lady than of ten stout warriors,
"I would not hint ye were mistaken; but it might well have come from either of the camps."

"It came not thence.  It came from westward," she declared.

"It may be what it will," returned Dick; "and it must be as heaven please.  Reck we not a jot,
but push on the livelier, and put it to the touch.  Up, friends--enough breathed."

As they advanced, the snow became more and more trampled with hoof-marks, and it was plain
that they were drawing near to the encampment of a considerable force of mounted men.  Presently
they could see the smoke pouring from among the trees, ruddily coloured on its lower edge and
scattering bright sparks.

And here, pursuant to Dick's orders, his men began to open out, creeping stealthily in the
covert, to surround on every side the camp of their opponents.  He himself, placing Alicia
in the shelter of a bulky oak, stole straight forth in the direction of the fire.

At last, through an opening of the wood, his eye embraced the scene of the encampment.  The
fire had been built upon a heathy hummock of the ground, surrounded on three sides by thicket,
and it now burned very strong, roaring aloud and brandishing flames.  Around it there sat not
quite a dozen people, warmly cloaked; but though the neighbouring snow was trampled down as
by a regiment, Dick looked in vain for any horse. He began to have a terrible misgiving that
he was out-manoeuvred.  At the same time, in a tall man with a steel salet, who was spreading
his hands before the blaze, he recognised his old friend and still kindly enemy, Bennet Hatch;
and in two others, sitting a little back, he made out, even in their male disguise, Joanna
Sedley and Sir Daniel's wife.

"Well," thought he to himself, "even if I lose my horses, let me get my Joanna, and why should
I complain?"

And then, from the further side of the encampment, there came a little whistle, announcing
that his men had joined, and the investment was complete.

Bennet, at the sound, started to his feet; but ere he had time to spring upon his arms, Dick
hailed him.

"Bennet," he said--"Bennet, old friend, yield ye.  Ye will but spill men's lives in vain, if
ye resist."

"'Tis Master Shelton, by St. Barbary!" cried Hatch.  "Yield me?  Ye ask much.  What force have ye?"

"I tell you, Bennet, ye are both outnumbered and begirt," said Dick. "Caesar and Charlemagne
would cry for quarter.  I have two score men at my whistle, and with one shoot of arrows I
could answer for you all."

"Master Dick," said Bennet, "it goes against my heart; but I must do my duty.  The saints help
you!"  And therewith he raised a little tucket to his mouth and wound a rousing call.

Then followed a moment of confusion; for while Dick, fearing for the ladies, still hesitated
to give the word to shoot, Hatch's little band sprang to their weapons and formed back to back
as for a fierce resistance.  In the hurry of their change of place, Joanna sprang from her
seat and ran like an arrow to her lover's side.

"Here, Dick!" she cried, as she clasped his hand in hers.

But Dick still stood irresolute; he was yet young to the more deplorable necessities of war,
and the thought of old Lady Brackley checked the command upon his tongue.  His own men became
restive.  Some of them cried on him by name; others, of their own accord, began to shoot; and
at the first discharge poor Bennet bit the dust.  Then Dick awoke.

"On!" he cried.  "Shoot, boys, and keep to cover.  England and York!"

But just then the dull beat of many horses on the snow suddenly arose in the hollow ear of
the night, and, with incredible swiftness, drew nearer and swelled louder.  At the same time,
answering tuckets repeated and repeated Hatch's call.

"Rally, rally!" cried Dick.  "Rally upon me!  Rally for your lives!"

But his men--afoot, scattered, taken in the hour when they had counted on an easy triumph--began
instead to give ground severally, and either stood wavering or dispersed into the thickets.
And when the first of the horsemen came charging through the open avenues and fiercely riding
their steeds into the underwood, a few stragglers were overthrown or speared among the brush,
but the bulk of Dick's command had simply melted at the rumour of their coming.

Dick stood for a moment, bitterly recognising the fruits of his precipitate and unwise valour.
Sir Daniel had seen the fire; he had moved out with his main force, whether to attack his pursuers
or to take them in the rear if they should venture the assault.  His had been throughout the
part of a sagacious captain; Dick's the conduct of an eager boy.  And here was the young knight,
his sweetheart, indeed, holding him tightly by the hand, but otherwise alone, his whole command
of men and horses dispersed in the night and the wide forest, like a paper of pins in a bay barn.

"The saints enlighten me!" he thought.  "It is well I was knighted for this morning's matter;
this doth me little honour."

And thereupon, still holding Joanna, he began to run.

