THE HEALING OF NATIONS AND THE HIDDEN SOURCES OF THEIR STRIFE

By Edward Carpenter

1915

"The Tree of Life ... whose leaves are for the Healing of the Nations"

CONTENTS

    I.  INTRODUCTORY

   II.  WAR-MADNESS

  III.  THE ROOTS OF THE GREAT WAR

   IV.  THE CASE AGAINST GERMANY

    V.  THE CASE FOR GERMANY

   VI.  THE HEALING OF NATIONS

  VII.  PATRIOTISM AND INTERNATIONALISM

 VIII.  THE PSYCHOLOGY OF WAR AND RECRUITING

   IX.  CONSCRIPTION

    X.  HOW SHALL THE PLAGUE BE STAYED?

   XI.  COMMERCIAL PROSPERITY THE PROSPERITY OF A CLASS

  XII.  COLONIES AND SEAPORTS

 XIII.  WAR AND THE SEX IMPULSE

  XIV.  THE OVER-POPULATION SCARE

   XV.  THE FRIENDLY AND THE FIGHTING INSTINCTS

  XVI.  NEVER AGAIN!

 XVII.  THE TREE OF LIFE

 APPENDIX--

        A New and Better Peace

        The Change from the Old Germany to the New

        Classes in Germany for and against the War

        Political Ignorance

        Purpose of the War: Max Harden

        England's Perfidy: Professors Haeckel and Eucken

        Manifesto of Professor Eucken

        Nietzsche on Disarmament

        The Effect of Disarmament

        The Principle of Nationality: Winston Churchill

        Conscription

        Neutralization of the Sea: H.G. Wells

        The War and Democracy: Arnold Bennett

        The Future Settlement: G. Lowes Dickinson

        Brutality of Warfare: H.M. Tomlinson

        Patriotism: Romain Rolland

        No Patriotism in Business!

        Manifesto, Independent Labour Party

        Responsibility of the whole Capitalist Class

        Text of Karl Liebknecht's Protest in Reichstag

        The Russian Danger

        Letter on Russia by P. Kropotkin

        On the Future of Europe, by the same

        Servia: R.W. Seton-Watson

        The Battlefield: Walt Whitman

        Chinese Christians on the War: Dr. A. Salter

        Essential Friendliness of Peoples

        Reconciliation in Death

        Christmas at the Front, 1914

        Letter from the Trenches by Baron Marschall von Bieberstein

I

INTRODUCTORY

The following Studies and Notes, made during the earlier period of the present war and now
collected together for publication, do not--as will be evident to the reader--pretend to any
sort of completeness in their embrace of the subject, or finality in its presentation. Rather
they are scattered thoughts suggested by the large and tangled drama which we are witnessing;
and I am sufficiently conscious that their expression involves contradictions as well as repetitions.

The truth is that affairs of this kind--like all the great issues of human life, Love, Politics,
Religion, and so forth, do not, at their best, admit of final dispatch in definite views and
phrases. They are too vast and complex for that. It is, indeed, quite probable that such things
cannot be adequately represented or put before the human mind without logical inconsistencies
and contradictions. But (perhaps for that very reason) they are the subjects of the most violent
and dogmatic differences of opinion. Nothing people quarrel about more bitterly than Politics--unless
it be Religion: both being subjects of which all that one can really say for certain is--that
nobody understands them.

When, as in the present war, a dozen or more nations enter into conflict and hurl at each other
accusations of the angriest sort (often quite genuinely made and yet absolutely irreconcilable
one with another), and when on the top of that scores and hundreds of writers profess to explain
the resulting situation in a few brief phrases (but unfortunately their explanations are all
different), and calmly affix the blame on "Russia" or "Germany" or "France" or "England"--just
as if these names represented certain responsible individuals, supposed for the purposes of
the argument to be of very wily and far-scheming disposition--whereas it is perfectly well
known that they really represent most complex whirlpools of political forces, in which the
merest accidents (as whether two members of a Cabinet have quarrelled, or an Ambassador's dinner
has disagreed with him) may result in a long and fatal train of consequences--it becomes obvious
that all so-called "explanations" (though it may be right that they should be attempted) fall
infinitely short, of the reality.[1]

Feeling thus the impossibility of dealing at all adequately with the present situation, I have
preferred to take here and there just an aspect of it for consideration, with a view especially
to the differences between Germany and England. I have thought that instead of spending time
over recriminations one might be on safer ground by trying to get at the root-causes of this
war (and other wars), thus making one's conclusions to some degree independent of a multitude
of details and accidents, most of which must for ever remain unknown to us.

There are in general four rather well-marked species of wars--Religious wars, Race wars, wars
of Ambition and Conquest, and wars of Acquisition and Profit--though in any particular case
the four species may be more or less mingled. The religious and the race motives often go together;
but in modern times on the whole (and happily) the religious motive is not so very dominant.
Wars of race, of ambition, and of acquisition are, however, still common enough. Yet it is
noticeable, as I frequently have occasion to remark in the following papers, that it only very
rarely happens that any of these wars are started or set in motion by the mass-peoples themselves.
The mass-peoples, at any rate of the more modern nations, are quiescent, peaceable, and disinclined
for strife. Why, then, do wars occur? It is because the urge to war comes, not from the masses
of a nation but from certain classes within it. In every nation, since the dawn of history,
there have been found, beside the toiling masses, three great main cliques or classes, the
Religious, the Military, and the Commercial. It was so in far-back ancient India; it is so
now. Each of these classes endeavours in its turn--as one might expect--to become the ruling
class and to run the government of the nation. The governments of the nations thus become class-governments.
And it is one or another of these classes that for reasons of its own, alone or in combination
with another class, foments war and sets it going.

In saying this I do not by any means wish to say anything against the mere existence of Class,
in itself. In a sense that is a perfectly natural thing. There are different divisions of human
activity, and it is quite natural that those individuals whose temperament calls them to a
certain activity--literary or religious or mercantile or military or what not--should range
themselves together in a caste or class; just as the different functions of the human body
range themselves in definite organs. And such grouping in classes may be perfectly healthy
provided the class so created subordinates itself to the welfare of the Nation. But if the
class does not subordinate itself to the general welfare, if it pursues its own ends, usurps
governmental power, and dominates the nation for its own uses--if it becomes parasitical, in
fact--then it and the nation inevitably become diseased; as inevitably as the human body becomes
diseased when its organs, instead of supplying the body's needs, become the tyrants and parasites
of the whole system.

It is this Class-disease which in the main drags the nations into the horrors and follies of
war. And the horrors and follies of war are the working out and expulsion on the surface of
evils which have long been festering within. How many times in the history of "civilization"
has a bigoted religious clique, or a swollen-headed military clique, or a greedy commercial
gang--caring not one jot for the welfare of the people committed to its charge--dragged them
into a senseless and ruinous war for the satisfaction of its own supposed interests! It is
here and in this direction (which searches deeper than the mere weighing and balancing of Foreign
policies and Diplomacies) that we must look for the "explanation" of the wars of to-day.

And even race wars--which at first sight seem to have little to do with the Class trouble--illustrate
the truth of my contention. For they almost always arise from the hatred generated in a nation
by an alien class establishing itself in the midst of that nation--establishing itself, maybe,
as a governmental or dominant class (generally a military or landlord clique) or maybe as a
parasitical or competing class (as in the case of the Jews in Europe and the Japanese in America
and so forth). They arise, like all other wars, from the existence of a class within the nation
which is not really in accord with the people of that nation, but is pursuing its own interests
apart from theirs. In the second of the following papers, "The Roots of the Great War," I have
drawn attention to the influence of the military and commercial classes, especially in Germany,
and the way in which their policy, coming into conflict with a similar policy in the other
Western nations, has inevitably led to the present embroilment. In Eastern Europe similar causes
are at work, but there the race elements--and even the religious--constitute a more important
factor in the problem.

By a curious fatality Germany has become the centre of this great war and world-movement, which
is undoubtedly destined--as the Germans themselves think, though in a way quite other than
they think--to be of vast importance, and the beginning of a new era in human evolution. And
the more one considers Germany's part in the affair, the more one sees, I think, that from
the combined influence of her historical antecedents and her national psychology this fatality
was to be expected. In roughly putting together these antecedent elements and influences, I
have entitled the chapter "The Case for Germany," because on the principle of tout comprendre
the fact of the evolution being inevitable constitutes her justification. The nations cannot
fairly complain of her having moved along a line which for a century or more has been slowly
and irresistibly prepared for her. On the other hand, the nations do complain of the manner
and the methods with which at the last she has precipitated and conducted the war--as indeed
they have shown by so widely combining against her. However right, from the point of view of
destiny and necessity, Germany may be, she has apparently from the point of view of the moment
put herself in the wrong. And the chapter dealing with this phase of the question I have called
"The Case against Germany."

Whatever further complications and postponements may arise, there will certainly come a time
of recovery and reconstruction on a wide and extended scale over Europe and a large part of
the world. To even outline this period would be impossible at present; but in the sixth chapter
and the last, as well as in the intermediate pieces, I have given some suggestions towards
this future Healing of the Nations.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Evil--huge and monstrous as it is--is not senseless, one may feel sure. Even now here in
England one perceives an extraordinary pulling together and bracing up of the people, a development
of solidarity and mutual helpfulness, a greater seriousness, and a disregarding of artificialities,
which are all to the good. These things are gains, even though the way of their manifestation
be through much of enmity and ignorance. And one may fairly suppose that similar results are
traceable in the other nations concerned. Wounds and death may seem senseless and needless,
but those who suffer them do not suffer in vain. All these shattering experiences, whether
in a nation's career or in the career of an individual, cause one--they force one--to look
into the bases of life and to get nearer its realities. If, in this case, the experiences of
the war, and the fire which the nations are passing through, serve to destroy and burn up much
of falsity in their respective habits and institutions, we shall have to admit that the attendant
disasters have not been all loss--even though at the same time we admit that if we had had
a grain of sense we might have mended our falsities in far more economical and sensible fashion.

If in the following pages--chiefly concerned as they are with Germany and England--I have seemed
to find fault with either party or to affix blame on one or the other, it is not necessary
to suppose that one harbours ill-feeling towards either, or that one fails to recognize the
splendid devotion of both the combatants. Two nations so closely related as the Germans and
the English cannot really be so hopelessly different in temperament and character; and a great
deal of the supposed difference is obviously artificial and class-made for the occasion. Still,
there are differences; and as we both think we are right, and as we are unable to argue the
matter out in a rational way, there seems to be nothing for it but to fight.

War has often been spoken of as a great Game; and Mr. Jerome K. Jerome has lately written eloquently
on that subject. It is a game in which the two parties agree, so to speak, to differ. They
take sides, and in default of any more rational method, resort to the arbitrament of force.
The stakes are high, and if on the one hand the game calls forth an immense amount of resource,
skill, alertness, self-control, endurance, courage, and even tenderness, helpfulness, and fidelity;
on the other hand, it is liable to let loose pretty bad passions of vindictiveness and cruelty,
as well as to lead to an awful accumulation of mental and physical suffering and of actual
material loss. To call war "The Great Game" may have been all very well in the more rudimentary
wars of the past; but to-day, when every horrible invention of science is conjured up and utilized
for the express purpose of blowing human bodies to bits and strewing battlefields with human
remains, and the human spirit itself can hardly hold up against such a process of mechanical
slaughter, the term has ceased to be applicable. The affections and the conscience of mankind
are too violently outraged by the spectacle; and a great mass of feeling is forming which one
may fairly hope will ere long make this form of strife impossible among the more modern peoples.

Still, even now, as Mr. Jerome himself contends, the term is partly justified by a certain
fine feeling of which it is descriptive and which is indeed very noticeable in all ranks. Whether
in the Army or Navy, among bluejackets or private soldiers or officers, the feeling is certainly
very much that of a big game--with its own rules of honour and decency which must be adhered
to, and carried on with extraordinary fortitude, patience, and good-humour. Whether it arises
from the mechanical nature of the slaughter, or from any other cause, the fact remains that
among our fighting people to-day--at any rate in the West--there is very little feeling of
hatred towards the "enemy." It is difficult, indeed, to hate a foe whom you do not even see.
Chivalry is not dead, and at the least cessation of the stress of conflict the tendency to
honour opponents, to fraternize with them, to succour the wounded, and so forth, asserts itself
again. And chivalry demands that what feelings of this kind we credit to ourselves we should
also credit to the other parties in the game. We do cordially credit them to our French and
Belgian allies, and if we do not credit them quite so cordially to the Germans, that is partly
at least because every lapse from chivalrous conduct on the part of our opponents is immediately
fastened upon and made the most of by our Press. Chivalry is by no means dead in the Teutonic
breast, though the sentiment has certainly been obscured by some modern German teachings.

While these present war-producing conditions last, we have to face them candidly and with as
much good sense as we can command (which is for the most part only little!). We have to face
them and make the best of them--though by no means to encourage them. Perhaps after all even
a war like the present one--monstrous as it is--does not denote so great a deviation of the
old Earth from its appointed orbit as we are at first inclined to think. Under normal conditions
the deaths on our planet (and many of them exceedingly lingering and painful) continue at the
rate of rather more than one every second--say 90,000 a day. The worst battles cannot touch
such a wholesale slaughter as this. Life at its normal best is full of agonizings and endless
toil and sufferings; what matters, what it is really there for, is that we should learn to
conduct it with Dignity, Courage, Goodwill--to transmute its dross into gold. If war has to
continue yet for a time, there is still plenty of evidence to show that we can wrest--even
from its horrors and insanities--some things that are "worth while," and among others the priceless
jewel of human love and helpfulness.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Some people take great pleasure in analysing White Books and Grey Books and Orange Books
and Yellow Books without end, and proving this or that from them--as of course out of such
a mass of material they can easily do, according to their fancy. Fr Juan Moreno Güeto Athanasius and returned to the castle immediately. Nuno took
somewhat longer to return, as had before bringing a message to Montilla, following the orders
his wife and his last orders, respect and liaison with people and things from this mortal life,
the century and the land that sustains us. Nuno was Montilla, and delivered demure younger brother
secretly D. Alonso de Aguilar, a long letter, written by Dona Mencia, and said thus:

VII

"When I said goodbye a few days ago from the castle, back at
you and sending you free and making demands that recover, I had no
courage to say goodbye yet also of hope See You in this world, oh
my sweet young friend!

Was already taken and hidden in the center of my soul the firm resolve never to see you anymore,
but I did not tell so far. Now I'm telling you now that last time I will make my words come
to you, even from afar, God will forgive me if I am happy to remember my loss, not for weeping
and wailing sorry, but to delight and honor Me with their memory. All the austerity of my life
for twenty years, my first love, gently preserved in memory with religious zeal and pure as the
sacred fire smoldering in the ashes of ara, and my pride and respect due to my name that I have been
honest and chaste decorum midwife, all faded and died in my soul to see your face and hearing your
words, perhaps from the first time I hablastes. Do not think I obfuscate, which blinded me and
I did not understand from the moment the intensity and ugliness of my sin and the almost irresistible
impulse fouling that I wore. Appeared clear in my mind that I'd love inspired, abominable
and how did the great difference in our age, that to become more self on your wife or girlfriend,
to provide, in relation to you for spiritual way, the chaste mother nature clean.

"I, however, knew not resist. It was my passion so intense that not only useless, stupid and
vulgar I found the resistance. Even in the same delay, I saw some mean and rude appeared in my
mind as cold artifice and studied prudery of woman who longs to sell more faces its niceties
and enhance more than just the price and worth of favors delaying
the grant them.

No wonder then that, due and rendered me fall into your arms of course without defending, and I
give my heart and be all yours.

"Had I wanted to gloss over the slope before it had felt to you, imagining vivid portrait of
the man whom I had loved in my early youthful days, and who had wept long years after his death.
But I soon discarded this idea, considering you coward hypocrisy
with which my understanding, more subtle liar who was trying to mitigate
the powerful vicious attempt at my will.

No: I do not like D. Jaime, but a thousand times better than him. His image etched in my soul,
not faded and disappeared well did your image affixed to it, a seal and mark of slavery that makes
it yours forever.


Moreover, they all assume that Germany was the aggressor; and we have to remember that this
would not be admitted for a moment by a vast number of the Germans themselves--who cease not
to say that the war was simply forced upon them by the hostile preparations of Russia, by the
vengefulness of France, by the jealous foreign policy of England, and by the obvious threat
embodied in the Entente between those three nations; and that if they (the Germans) made preparations
for, or even precipitated it, that was only out of the sheer necessity of self-preservation.[3]

Thus we are still left without any generally accepted conclusion in the matter. Moreover, we
are struck, in considering the list of reasons cited, by a feeling that they are all in their
way rather partial and superficial--that they do not go to the real root of the subject.

Out of them all--and after the first period of confusion and doubt has passed--our own people
at home have settled down into the conviction that German militarism in general, and Prussian
Junkerdom in particular, are to blame, and that for the good of the world as well as for our
own good we are out to fight these powers of evil. Prussian class-militarism, it is said, under
which for so long the good people of Germany have groaned, has become a thing intolerable.
The arrogance, the insolence, of the Junker officer, his aristocratic pretension, his bearish
manners, have made him a byword, not only in his own country but all over Europe; and his belief
in sheer militarism and Jingo imperialism has made him a menace. The Kaiser has only made things
worse. Vain and flighty to a degree, and, like most vain people, rather shallow, Wilhelm II
has supposed himself to be a second and greater Bismarck, destined by Providence to create
the said Teutonic world-empire. It is simply to fight these powers of evil that we are out.

Of course, there is a certain amount of truth in this view; at the same time, it is lamentably
insufficient. The fact is that in the vast flux of destiny which is involved in such a war
as the present, and which no argument can really adequately represent, we are fain to snatch
at some neat phrase, however superficial, by way of explanation. And we are compelled, moreover,
to find a phrase which will put our own efforts in an ideal light--otherwise we cannot go on
fighting. No nation can fight confessedly for a mean or base object. Every nation inscribes
on its banner Freedom, Justice, Religion, Culture versus Barbarism, or something of the kind,
and in a sense redeems itself in so fighting. It saves its soul even though bodily it may be
conquered. And this is not hypocrisy, but a psychological necessity, though each nation, of
course, accuses the other of hypocrisy.

We are fighting "to put down militarism and the dominance of a military class," says the great
B.P., and one can only hope that when the war is over we shall remember and rivet into shape
this great and good purpose--not only with regard to foreign militarism, but also with regard
to our own. Certainly, whatever other or side views we may take of the war, we are bound to
see in it an illustration of the danger of military class-rule. You cannot keep a 60-h.p. Daimler
motor-car in your shed for years and years and still deny yourself the pleasure of going out
on the public road with it--even though you know you are not a very competent driver; and you
cannot continue for half a century perfecting your military and naval organization without
in the end making the temptation to become a political road-hog almost irresistible.

Still, accepting for the moment the popular explanation given above of Germany's action as
to some degree justified, we cannot help seeing how superficial and unsatisfactory it is, because
it at once raises the question, which, indeed, is being asked in all directions, and not satisfactorily
answered: "How does it happen that so peace-loving, sociable, and friendly a people as the
great German mass-folk, as we have hitherto known them, with their long scientific and literary
tradition, their love of music and philosophy, their lager beer and tobacco, and their generally
democratic habits, should have been led into a situation like the present, whether by a clique
of Junkers or by a clique of militarist philosophers and politicians?" And the answer to this
is both interesting and important.

It resolves itself into two main causes: (1) the rise of the great German commercial class;
and (2) the political ignorance of the German people.

It is obvious, I think, that a military aristocracy alone, or even with the combined support
of empire-building philosophers and a jack-boot Kaiser, could not have hurried the solid German
nation into so strange a situation. In old days, and under an avowedly feudal order of society,
such a thing might well have happened. But to-day the source and seat of power has passed from
crowned heads and barons into another social stratum. It is the financial and commercial classes
in the modern States who have the sway; and unless these classes desire it the military cliques
may plot for war in vain. Since 1870, and the unification of Germany, the growth of her manufactures
and her trade has been enormous; her commercial prosperity has gone up by leaps and bounds;
and this extension of trade, especially of international trade, has led--as it had already
so conspicuously done in England--to the development of corresponding ideals and habits of
life among the population. The modest, simple-living, middle-class households of fifty years
ago have largely disappeared, and in their place have sprung up, at any rate in the larger
towns, the very same commercial and parasitical classes, with their Philistine luxury and fatuous
ideals, which have been so depressing and distressing a feature of our social life during the
same period. Naturally, the desire of these classes has been for the glorification of Germany,
the establishment of an absolutely world-wide commercial supremacy, and the ousting of England
from her markets.

"Germany," said Peter Kropotkin[4] a year or two ago, "on entering a striking period of juvenile
activity, quickly succeeded in doubling and trebling her industrial productivity, and soon
increasing it tenfold; and now the German middle classes covet new sources of enrichment in
the plains of Poland, in the prairies of Hungary, on the plateaux of Africa, and especially
around the railway line to Baghdad--in the rich valleys of Asia Minor, which can provide German
capitalists with a labouring population ready to be exploited under one of the most beautiful
skies in the world. It may be so with Egypt some day. Therefore it is ports for exports, and
especially military ports, in the Adriatic, the Persian Gulf, on the African coast in Beira,
and also in the Pacific, that these schemers of German colonial trade wish to conquer. Their
faithful servant, the German Empire, with its armies and ironclads, is at their service for
this purpose."

It is this class, then, which by backing both financially and morally the military class has
been chiefly responsible for bringing about the war. Not that I mean, in saying so, that the
commercial folk of Germany have directly instigated its outbreak at the present moment and
in the present circumstances--for many, or most of them, must have seen how dangerous it was
likely to prove to their trade. But in respect of the general policy which they have so long
pursued they are responsible. One cannot go on for years (and let England, too, remember this)
preaching militarism as a means of securing commercial advantage, and then refuse to be answerable
for the results to which such a policy may lead. The Junker classes of Prussia and their Kaiser
might be suffering from a bad attack of swelled head; vanity and arrogance might be filling
them with dreams of world-empire; but there would have been no immediate European war had not
the vast trade-interests of Germany come into conflict, or seemed to come into conflict, with
the trade-interests of the surrounding nations--had not the financial greed of the nation been
stirred, as well as its military vanity.

And talking of general trade and finance, one must not forget to include the enormous powers
exercised in the present day by individual corporations and individual financiers who intrude
their operations into the sphere of politics. We saw that in our own Boer War; and behind the
scenes in Germany to-day similar influences are at work. The Deutsche Bank, with immense properties
all over the world, and some £85,000,000 sterling in its hands in deposits alone, initiated
financially the Baghdad Railway scheme. Its head, Herr Arthur von Gwinner, the great financier,
is a close adviser of the Kaiser. "The railway is already nearly half built, and it represents
a German investment of between £16,000,000 and £18,000,000. Let this be thought of when people
imagine that Germany and Austria went to war with the idea of avenging the murder of an Archduke....
All German trade would suffer if the Baghdad Railway scheme were to fail."[5] Then there is
Herr August Thyssen--"King Thyssen"--who owns coalmines, rolling mills, harbours, and docks
throughout Germany, iron-ore mines in France, warehouses in Russia, and entrepôts in nearly
every country from Brazil and Argentina to India.[6] He has declared that German interests
in Asia Minor must be safeguarded at all costs. But Russia also has large prospective commercial
interests in Asia Minor. The moral is clear and needs no enforcing. Such men as these--and
many others, the Rathenaus, Siemens, Krupps, Ballins, and Heinekens--exercise in Germany an
immense political influence, just as do our financial magnates at home. They represent the
peaks and summits of wide-spreading commercial activities whose bases are rooted among the
general public. Yet through it all it must not be forgotten that they represent in each case
(as I shall explain more clearly presently) the interests of a class--the commercial class--but
not of the whole nation.

One must, then, modify the first conclusion, that the blame of the war rests with the military
class, by adding a second factor, namely, the rise and influence of the commercial class. These
two classes, acting and reacting on each other, and pushing--though for different reasons--in
the same direction, are answerable, as far as Germany is concerned, for dragging Europe into
this trouble; and they must share the blame.

If it is true, as already suggested, that Germany's action has only been that of the spark
that fires the magazine, still her part in the affair affords such an extraordinarily illuminating
text and illustration that one may be excused for dwelling on it.

Here, in her case, we have the divisions of a nation's life set out in well-marked fashion.
We have a military clique headed by a personal and sadly irresponsible ruler; we have a vulgar
and much swollen commercial class; and then, besides these two, we have a huge ant's nest of
professors and students, a large population of intelligent and well-trained factory workers,
and a vast residuum of peasants. Thus we have at least five distinct classes, but of these
the last three have--till thirty or forty years ago--paid little or no attention to political
matters. The professors and students have had their noses buried in their departmental science
and fach studies; the artisans have been engrossed with their technical work, and have been
only gradually drifting away from their capitalist employers and into the Socialist camp; and
the peasants--as elsewhere over the world, absorbed in their laborious and ever-necessary labours--have
accepted their fate and paid but little attention to what was going on over their heads. Yet
these three last-mentioned classes, forming the great bulk of the nation, have been swept away,
and suddenly at the last, into a huge embroilment in which to begin with they had no interest
or profit.

This may seem strange, but the process after all is quite simple, and to study it in the case
of Germany may throw helpful light on our own affairs. However the blame may be apportioned
between the Junker and commercial classes, it is clear that, fired by the Bismarckian programme,
and greatly overstretching it, they played into each other's hands. The former relied for the
financing of its schemes on the support of the commercials. The latter saw in the militarists
a power which might increase Germany's trade-supremacy. Vanity and greed are met together,
patriotism and profits have kissed each other. A Navy League and an Army League and an Air
League arose. Professors and teachers were subsidized in the universities; the children were
taught Pan-Germanism in the schools; a new map of Europe was put before them. An enormous literature
grew up on the lines of Treitschke, Houston Chamberlain, and Bernhardi, with novels and romances
to illustrate side-issues, and the Press playing martial music. The students and intellectuals
began to be infected; the small traders and shopkeepers were moved; and the war-fever gradually
spread through the nation. As to the artisans, they may, as I have said, have largely belonged
to the Socialist party--with its poll of four million votes in the last election--and in the
words of Herr Haase in the Reichstag just before the war, they may have wished to hold themselves
apart from "this cursed Imperialist policy"; but when the war actually arrived, and the fever,
and the threat of Russia, and the fury of conscription, they perforce had to give way and join
in. How on earth could they do otherwise? And the peasants--even if they escaped the fever--could
not escape the compulsion of authority nor the old blind tradition of obedience. They do not
know, even to-day, why they are fighting; and they hardly know whom they are fighting, but
in their ancient resignation they accept the inevitable and shout "Deutschland über Alles"
with the rest. And so a whole nation is swept off its feet by a small section of it, and the
insolence of a class becomes, as in Louvain and Rheim's, the scandal of the world.[7]

And the people bleed; yes, it is always the people who bleed. The trains arrive at the hospital
bases, hundreds, positively hundreds of them, full of wounded. Shattered human forms lie in
thousands on straw inside the trucks and wagons, or sit painfully reclined in the passenger
compartments, their faces grimed, their clothes ragged, their toes protruding from their boots.
Some have been stretched on the battlefield for forty-eight hours, or even more, tormented
by frost at night, covered with flies by day, without so much as a drink of water. And those
that have not already become a mere lifeless heap of rags have been jolted in country carts
to some railway-station, and there, or at successive junctions, have been shunted on sidings
for endless hours. And now, with their wounds still slowly bleeding or oozing, they are picked
out by tender hands, and the most crying cases are roughly, dressed before consigning to a
hospital. And some faces are shattered, hardly recognizable, and some have limbs torn away;
and there are internal wounds unspeakable, and countenances deadly pallid, and moanings which
cannot be stifled, and silences worse than moans.

Yes, the agony and bloody sweat of battlefields endured for the domination or the ambition
of a class is appalling. But in many cases, though more dramatic and appealing to the imagination,
one may doubt if it is worse than the year-long and age-long agony of daily life endured for
the same reason.

Maeterlinck, in his eloquent and fiery letter to the Daily Mail of September 14th, maintained
that the whole German nation is equally to blame in this affair--that all classes are equally
involved in it, with no degrees of guilt. We may excuse the warmth of personal feeling which
makes him say this, but we cannot accept the view. We are bound to point out that it is only
by some such analysis as the above, and estimation of the method by which the delusions of
one class may be communicated to the others, that we can guard ourselves, too, from falling
into similar delusions.

I mentioned that besides the growth of the commercial class, a second great cause of the war
was the political ignorance of the German people. And this is important. Fifty years ago, and
before that, when Germany was divided up into scores of small States and Duchies, the mass
of its people had no practical interest in politics. Such politics as existed, as between one
Duchy and another, were mere teacup politics. Read Eckermann's Conversations, and see how small
a part they played in Goethe's mind. That may have been an advantage in one way. The brains
of the nation went into science, literature, music. And when, after 1870, the unification of
Germany came, and the political leadership passed over to Prussia, the same state of affairs
for a long time continued; the professors continued their investigations in the matters of
the thyroid gland or the rock inscriptions in the Isle of Thera, but they left the internal
regulation of the State and its foreign policy confidently in the hands of the Kaiser and the
nominees of the great and rising bourgeoisie, and themselves remained unobservant and uninstructed
in such matters. It was only when these latter powers declared--as in the Emperor's pan-German
proclamation of 1896--that a Teutonic world-empire was about to be formed, and that the study
of Welt-politik was the duty of every serious German, that the thinking and reading portion
of the population suddenly turned its attention to this subject. An immense mass of political
writings--pamphlets, prophecies, military and economic treatises, romances of German conquest,
and the like--naturally many of them of the crudest sort, was poured forth and eagerly accepted
by the public, and a veritable Fool's Paradise of German suprernacy arose. It is only in this
way, by noting the long-preceding ignorance of the German citizen in the matter of politics,
his absolute former non-interference in public affairs, and the dazed state of his mind when
he suddenly found himself on the supposed pinnacle of world-power--that we can explain his
easy acceptance of such cheap and ad hoc publications as those of Bernhardi and Houston Chamberlain,
and the fact that he was so easily rushed into the false situation of the present war.[8] The
absurd canards which at an early date gained currency, in Berlin--as that the United States
had swallowed Canada, that the Afghans in mass were invading; India, that Ireland was plunged
in civil war--point in the same direction; and so do the barbarities of the Teutonic troops
in the matters of humanity and art. For though in all war and in the heat of battle there are
barbarities perpetrated, it argues a strange state of the German national psychology that in
this case a heartless severity and destruction of the enemy's life and property should have
been preached beforehand, and quite deliberately, by professors and militarists, and accepted,
apparently, by the general public. It argues, to say the least, a strange want of perception
of the very unfavourable impression which such a programme must inevitably excite in the mind
of the world at large.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is, no doubt, pleasant in its way for us British to draw this picture of Germany, and to
trace the causes which led the ruling powers there, years ago, to make up their minds for war,
because, of course, the process in some degree exonerates us. But, as I have already said,
I have dwelt on Germany, not only because she affords such a good illustration of what to avoid,
but also because she affords so clear an example of what is going on elsewhere in Europe--in
England and France and Italy, and among all the modern nations. We cannot blame Germany without
implicitly also blaming these.

What, indeed, shall we say of England? Germany has for years maintained that with her own growing
population and her growing trade she needs a more extended seaboard in Europe, and coaling
stations and colonies in other regions of the globe, but that England, jealous of commercial
supremacy, has been determined to deny her these, and, if possible, to crush her; that she
(Germany) has lived in perpetual fear and panic; and that if in this case she has been the
first to strike, it has only been because to wait England's opportunity would have been to
court defeat. Allowing for the exaggerations inseparable from opposed points of view, is there
not some justification for this plea? England, who plunged into the Crimean War in order to
prevent Russia from obtaining a seaboard and her natural commercial expansion, and who afterwards
joined with Russia in order to plunder Persia and to prevent Germany from getting her railways
along the Persian Gulf; who calmly appropriated Egypt, with its valuable cottonlands and market;
who, at the behest of a group of capitalists and financiers, turned her great military machine
on a little nation of Boer farmers in South Africa; who, it is said,[9] sold 300,000 tons of
coal to Russia to aid her fleet against Japan, and at the same time furnished Japan with gold
at a high rate of interest for use against Russia--what trust can be placed in her? "England,"
says Bernhardi, "in spite of all her pretences of a liberal and philanthropic policy, has never
sought any other object than personal advantage and the unscrupulous suppression of her rivals."
Let us hope that this "never" is too harsh; let us at least say "hardly ever"; but still, are
we not compelled to admit that if the rise of commercial ambition in Germany has figured as
a danger to us, our far greater commercial ambitions have not only figured as a danger to Germany,
but, in conjunction with our alliance with France and Russia, her ancient foes, may well have
led to a state of positive panic among her people? And if, as the Allies would doubtless say,
there was really no need for any such panic, the situation was obviously sufficiently grave
to be easily made use of by a military class for its own ends, or by an armaments ring or a
clique of financiers for theirs. Indeed, it would be interesting to know what enormous profits
Kruppism (to use H.G. Wells' expressive term) has already made out of this world-madness. Nor
can it be denied that the commercial interest in England, if not deliberately intending to
provoke war with Germany, has not been at all sorry to seize this opportunity of laying a rival
Power low--if only in order to snatch the said rival's trade. That, indeed, the daily Press
reveals only too clearly.

From all this the danger of class-domination emerges more and more into relief. In Prussia
the old Feudal caste remains--in a decadent state, certainly, but perhaps for that very reason
more arrogant, more vulgar, and less conscious of any noblesse oblige than even before. By
itself, however, and if unsupported by the commercial class, it would probably have done little
harm. In Britain the Feudal caste has ceased to be exclusively military, and has become blended
with the commercial class. The British aristocracy now consists largely or chiefly of retired
grocers and brewers. Commercialism here has become more confessedly dominant than in Germany,
and whereas there the commercial class may support the military in its ambitions, here the
commercial class uses the military as a matter of course and for its own ends. We have become
a Nation of Shopkeepers having our own revolvers and machine-guns behind the counter.

And yet not really a Nation of Shopkeepers, but rather a nation ruled by a shopkeeping class.

[This is the point in the text referred to by Footnote 25 below]

People sometimes talk as if commercial prosperity and the interests of the commercial folk
represented the life of the whole nation. That is a way of speaking, and it illustrates certainly
a common modern delusion. But it is far from the truth. The trading and capitalist folk are
only a class, and they do not, properly speaking, represent the nation. They do not represent
the landowning and the farming interests, both of which detest them; they do not represent
the artisans and industrial workers, who have expressly formed themselves into unions in order
to fight them, and who have only been able to maintain their rights by so doing; they do not
represent the labourers and peasants, who are ground under their heel. It would take too long
to go into the economics of this subject, interesting though they are.[10] But a very brief
survey of facts shows us that wherever the capitalist and trading classes have triumphed--as
in England early last century, and until Socialistic legislation was called in to check them--the
condition of the mass of the people has by no means improved, rather the contrary. Japan has
developed a world trade, and is on the look out for more, yet never before has there been such
distress among her mass-populations. Russia has been lately moving in the same direction; her
commercial interests are rapidly progressing, but her peasantry is at a standstill, France
and Italy have already grown a fat bourgeoisie, but their workers remain in a limbo of poverty
and strikes. And in all these countries, including Germany, Socialism has arisen as a protest
against the commercial order--which fact certainly does not look as if commercialism were a
generally acknowledged benefit.

No, commercial prosperity means only the prosperity of a class. Yet such is the curious glamour
that surrounds this, subject and makes a fetish of statistics about "imports and exports,"
that nothing is more common than for such prosperity to be taken to mean the prosperity of
the nation as a whole. The commercial people, having command of the Press, and of the avenues
and highways of public influence, do not find it at all difficult to persuade the nation that
they are its representatives, and that their advantage is the advantage of all. This illusion
is only a part, I suppose, of a historical necessity, which as the Feudal regime passes brings
into prominence the Commercial regime; but do not let us be deluded by it, nor forget that
in submitting to the latter we are being nose-led by a class just as much as the Germans have
been in submitting to the Prussian Junkers. Do not let us, at the behest of either class, be
so foolish as to set out in vain pursuit of world-empire; and, above all, do not let us, in
freeing ourselves from military class-rule, fall under the domination of financiers and commercial
diplomats. Let us remember that wars for world-markets are made for the benefit of the merchant
class and not for the benefit of the mass-people, and that in this respect England has been
as much to blame as Germany or any other nation--nay, pretty obviously more so.

What is clearly wanted--and indeed is the next stage of human evolution in England and in all
Western lands--is that the people should emancipate themselves from class-domination, class-glamour,
and learn to act freely from their own initiative. I know it is difficult. It means a spirit
of independence, courage, willingness to make sacrifice. It means education, alertness to guard
against the insidious schemes of wire-pullers and pressmen, as well as of militarists and commercials.
It means the perception that only through eternal vigilance can freedom be maintained. Yet
it is the only true Democracy; and the logic of its arrival is assured to us by the historical
necessity that progress in all countries must pass through the preliminary stages of feudalism
and commercialism on its way to realize the true life of the mass-peoples.

To-day the uprising of Socialist ideals, of the power of Trade Unions, and especially the formation
of International Unions, show us that we are on the verge of this third stage. We are shaping
our way towards the real Democracy, with the attainment of which wars--though they will not
cease from the world--will certainly become much rarer. The international entente already establishing
itself among the manual workers of all the European countries--and which has now become an
accepted principle of the Labour movement--is a guarantee and a promise of a more peaceful
era; and those who know the artisans and peasants of this and other countries know well how
little enmity they harbour in their breasts against each other. Racial and religious wars will
no doubt for long continue; but wars to satisfy the ambitions of a military clique or a personal
ruler, or the ambitions of a commercial group, or the schemes of financiers, or the engineering
of the Press--wars from these all too fruitful causes will, under a sensible Democracy, cease.
If Britain, during the last twenty years, had really favoured the cause of the People and their
international understanding, there would have been no war now, for her espousal of the mass-peoples'
cause would have made her so strong that it would have been too risky for any Government to
attack her. But of course that could not have happened, for the simple reason that Conservatism
and Liberalism are not Democracy. Conservatism is Feudalism, Liberalism is Commercialism, and
Socialism only is in its essence Democracy. It is no good scolding at Sir Edward Grey for making
friends with the Russian Government; for his only alternative would have been to join the "International"--which
he certainly could not do, being essentially a creature of the commercial regime. The "Balance
of Power" and the ententes and alliances of Figure-head Governments had to go on, till the
day--which we hope is at hand--when Figure-heads will be no more needed.

FOOTNOTES:

[2] Reprinted by kind permission from the English Review for December, 1914.

[3] As an example of this belief, read the manifesto of Professor Eucken, who represents such
a large section of German opinion, and note the absolute sincerity of its tone--as well as
its simplicity.

[4] Wars and Capitalism, by P. Kropotkin. (Freedom Press.)

[5] See Nash's Magazine for October, 1914, article by "Diplomatist."

[6] Ibid.

[7] In order to realize how easy such a process is, we have only to remember the steps by which
the outbreak of the Boer War in 1899 was engineered.

[8] Of course we must remember that there has been all along and is now in Germany a very large
party, Socialist and other, which has not been thus carried away; but for the moment its mouth
is closed and it cannot make itself heard.

[9] See Kropotkin's War and Capitalism, p. 12.

[10] See note infra on "Commercial Prosperity," p. 167. (Chapter XI below)

IV

THE CASE AGAINST GERMANY;

November, 1914.

With every wish to do justice to Germany, to whose literature I feel I owe such a debt, and
among whose people I have so many personal friends; allowing also the utmost for the general
causes in Europe which have been for years leading up towards war--and some of which I have
indicated already in the pages above--I still feel it is impossible not to throw on her the
immediate blame for the present catastrophe.

However we distribute the indictment and the charges among the various parties concerned, whether
we accuse mainly the sway of Prussian Militarism or the rise of German Commercialism, or the
long tradition and growth of a Welt-politik philosophy, or the general political ignorance
which gave to these influences such rash and uncritical acceptance; or whether we accuse the
somewhat difficult and variable personal equation of the Kaiser himself--the fact still remains
that for years and years this war has been by the German Government most deliberately and systematically
prepared for. The fact remains that Britain--though for a long period she had foreseen danger
and had on the naval side slowly braced herself to meet it--was on the military side caught
at the last moment unprepared; that France was so little intending war that a large portion
of the nation was actually still protesting against an increase in the size of the standing
army; and that Russia--whatever plans she may have had, or not had, in mind--was confessedly
at the same period two years or so behind in the organization and completion of her military
establishment.

Whether right or wrong, it can hardly be denied that the moment of the precipitation of war
was chosen and insisted on by Germany. After Austria's monstrous and insulting dictation to
Servia (23rd July), and Servia's incredibly humble apology (25th), Austria was still not allowed
to accept the latter, and the conference proposed (26th July) by Sir E. Grey--though accepted
by France, Russia, and Italy--was refused by Germany (27th). On the 28th Austria declared war
on Servia. It was perfectly clear to every one that Russia--after what had happened before
in 1908-9, with regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina--could not possibly allow this insult to Servia
to pass. Germany, therefore, by this move forced Russia's hand; and at a moment when Russia
was known or supposed to be comparatively unprepared.[11] France had been involved in some
military scandals and was still debating as to the two years' instead of three years' period
for her normal military service. The German Ambassador at Vienna had openly said that France
was not in a condition for facing a war. England was currently supposed in Germany to be seriously
hampered by domestic troubles at home--chiefly of course among the Irish, but also amongst
the Suffragettes(!) and by widespread disaffection in India. It was thought, therefore, that
England would certainly remain neutral--and I think we may fairly say that the extent to which
Germany counted on this expected neutrality is evidenced by her disappointment and public rage
when she found that she was mistaken.

Germany's initiative in the matter is further evidenced by her instant readiness to attack.
She was in Luxemburg within a few hours of the declaration of war with Russia; and it was clearly
her intention to "rush" Paris and then turn back upon Russia.

It may be said that from her own point of view Germany was quite right to take the initiative.
If she sincerely believed that the Entente was plotting her downfall, she was justified in
attacking instead of waiting to be attacked. That may be so. It is the line to which General
Bernhardi again returns in his latest book (Britain as Germany's Vassal, translated by J. Ellis
Barker). But it does not alter the fact that this was an immense responsibility to take, and
that the immediate onus of the war rests with Germany. If she under all the above circumstances
precipitated war, she can hardly be surprised if the judgment of Europe (one may also say the
world) is against her. If she has played her cards so badly as to put herself entirely in the
wrong, she must naturally "dree her weird."

There remains the case of her treatment of Belgium. Britain certainly--who has only lately
assisted at the dismemberment of Persia, and who is even now allowing Russia (in the face of
Persian protests) to cross neutral territory in the neighbourhood of Tabriz on her way to attack
Turkey, who has uttered, moreover, no word of protest against the late Ukase (of mid-November)
by which the independent rights of Finland have been finally crushed--Britain, I say, need
talk no cant about Belgian neutrality. Britain, for her own absolute safety, has always required
and still requires Belgian neutrality to be respected. And that by itself is a sufficient,
and the most honest, reason. But in the eyes of the world at large Germany's deliberate and
determined sacrifice of Belgium, simply because the latter stood in the way of the rapid accomplishment
of her warlike designs against France (and England), can never be condoned--little Belgium
who had never harmed or offended Germany in any way. Add to this her harsh and brutish ill-treatment
of the Belgian civilian people, her ravage of their ancient buildings and works of art, and
her clearly expressed intention both in word and deed to annex their territory by force should
the fortunes of war favour her--all these facts, which we may say are proven beyond the shadow
of a doubt, form a most serious indictment. They substantiate the charge that Germany by acting
throughout in this high-handed way has deeply violated the natural laws of the Comity of Nations,
which are the safeguards of Civilization, and they confirm the rightful claim of Europe to
sit in judgment on her.

I say nothing at the moment about the charges of atrocities committed by German troops, partly
because such charges are always in warfare made by each side against the other, and partly
because their verification should be the subject of a world-inquiry later on. It may be said,
however, that the Belgian and French Commissions of inquiry have certainly presented material
and evidence which ought to be investigated later--material which would hardly be credible
of so humane and cultured a people as the Germans, were it not for the fact, alluded to already,
of such severities having been deliberately recommended beforehand by the philosophical writers,
military and political, who have during the last half-century moulded German public opinion.

England, as I say, is in no position herself to sit in judgment on Germany and lecture her--much
as she undoubtedly enjoys doing so. England's long-standing policy of commercial greed, leading
to political grab in every part of the world; her infidelity in late years towards small peoples,
like the Boers and the Persians; her neglect of treaty obligations and silence about them when
they do not suit her; her most dubious alliance with a military despotism like Russia: all
render it impossible for her to accuse Germany. The extraordinary thing is that in the face
of such prevarications as these, which are patent to the whole world, Britain at any moment
of serious crisis always comes forward with the air of utmost sincerity and in an almost saintly
pose as the champion of political morality! How is it? The world laughs and talks of heuchlerei
and cant Britannique. But I almost think (perhaps I stretch a point in order to save the credit
of my country) that the real cause is not so much British hypocrisy as British stupidity--stupidity
which keeps our minds in watertight compartments and prevents us perceiving how confused and
inconsistent our own judgments are and how insincere they appear to our neighbours. At any
rate, whether the cause is pure hypocrisy or pure stupidity, or whether a Scotch mixture of
these, it cannot be denied that its result is most irritating to decent-minded people.

It is curious how a certain strain or vein of temperament, like that just mentioned, will run
through a nation's whole life, and colour its actions in all departments, recognized and commented
on by the whole outside world, and yet remain unobserved by the nation itself.

Every one who has known the Germans at home--even years back--has been conscious of a certain
strain in the Teutonic character which has had a like bearing in the German national life.
How shall I describe it? It is a certain want of tact, unperceptiveness--a kind of overbearing
simplicity of mind. Whether it be in the train or the hotel or the private house, the German
does not always seem to see the personal situation. Whether you prefer to talk or remain silent,
whether you wish the window open or shut, whether you desire to partake of such and such a
dish or whether you don't--of such little matters he (or she) seems unaware. Perhaps it is
that the Teutonic mind is so vigorous that it overrides you without being conscious of doing
so, or that it is so convinced of its own Tightness; or perhaps it is that the scientific type
of mind, depending always on formulae and statistics, necessarily loses a certain finer quality.
Anyhow, the fact remains that sociable, kindly, gemüthlich and so forth as the Germans are,
there is a lack of delicate touch and perception about them, of gentle manners, and a certain
insensitiveness to the opinion of those with whom they have to deal. The strain may not be
without its useful bearings in the direction of strength and veracity, but it runs curiously
through the national life, and colours deeply, not only the domestic and social relations of
the people but their foreign politics also, and even their war tactics and strategy.

I have spoken before of the political ignorance of the German mass-people, which, dating from
years back, caused them to be easily led by their empire-building philosophers to a certain
very dangerous pinnacle of ambition, and there tempted. The same want of perception of how
their actions would be viewed by the world in general caused the Government to act in the most
egregiously high-handed manner in the matter of the precipitation and declaration of the war
itself, and subsequently likewise in the ruthless invasion of Belgium and treatment of her
people and her cities. The want of discernment of what was going on outside the sphere of her
own psychology led her into fatal delusions as to the attitude of England, of Ireland, of Belgium,
Italy, India, and so forth. It caused her generals to miscalculate and seriously under-estimate
the strategic forces opposed to them, both in France and Russia; and in actual battles it has
caused them to adopt, with disastrous results, tactics which were foolishly inspired by contempt
of the enemy. Without insisting too much on the stories of atrocities--which are still to a
certain extent sub judice--it does rather appear that even those excesses which the Commissions
of inquiry have reported (and which occurred, be it said, chiefly in the early days of the
campaign) were due to an intoxication, not merely of champagne but of excited self-glorification
and blindness to the human rights of peoples at least as brave as themselves.[12]

However that last point may be, it is certainly curious to think how--whether it be in the
case of the German or the English or any other people--a vein of temperament or character may
decide a nation's fate or colour its history quite as much as or even more than matters of
wealth and armament.

Personally one feels sorry for the great and admirable German people--though I do not suppose
it will matter to them whether one feels sorry or not! And I look forward to the day when there
will come a better understanding between them and ourselves--better perhaps than has ever been
before--when we shall forgive them their sins against us, and they will forgive us our sins
against them, one of which certainly is our meanness and shopkeeperiness in rejoicing in the
war as a means of "collaring their trade." I feel sure that the German mass-people will wake
up one day to the knowledge that they have been grossly betrayed at home, not only by Prussian
militarism but by pan-German commercial philosophy and bunkum, as well as by their own inattention
to, and consequent ignorance of, political affairs. And I hope they will wake up to the conviction
that Destiny and the gods in this matter are after all bringing them to a conclusion and a
consummation far finer than anything they have perhaps imagined for themselves. If, indeed,
when the war is over, they are fortunate enough to be compelled by the terms of settlement
to abandon their Army and Navy--or all but the merest residue of these--the consequences undoubtedly
will be that, freed from the frightful burdens which the upkeep of these entails, they will
romp away over the world through an era of unexampled prosperity and influence. Their science,
liberated, will give them the lead in many arts and industries; their philosophy and literature,
no longer crippled by national vanities, will rise to the splendid world-level of former days;
their colonizing enterprise, unhindered by conscriptionist vetoes, will carry them far and
wide over the globe; and even their trade will find that without fortified seaports and tariff
walls it will, in these days of universal movement and intercommunication, do fully as well
as, if not much better than, ever it did before. In that day, however, let us hope that--the
more communal conception of public life having prevailed and come to its own--the success of
Trade, among any nation or people, will no longer mean the successful manufacture of a dominant
and vulgar class, but the real prosperity and welfare of the whole nation, including all classes.

And in that day, possibly, the other nations, witnessing the extraordinary prosperity and success
of that one which has abandoned armaments and Kruppisms, will--if they have a grain of sense
left in them--follow suit and, voluntarily divesting themselves too of their ancient armour,
give up the foolishness of national enmities and jealousies, and adopt the attitude of humanity
and peace, which alone can be the worthy and sensible attitude for us little mortals, when
we shall have arrived at years of discretion upon the earth.

[Just after writing the above I received the following remarks in a letter of a friend from
South America, which may be worth reprinting. He says: "In spite of the events of 1815 and
1870, French 'culture' is supreme to-day over all South America. South America is a suburb
of Paris, and French culture has won its triumphs wholly irrespective of the defeat of French
arms. Therefore I incline to think that true German culture in science and music will gain
rather than lose by the destruction of German arms. Not only will that nation cease to spend
its time writing dull military books, but other nations will be more likely to appreciate what
there is in German thought and culture when this is no longer offered us at the point of the
bayonet! German commerce in South America has suffered rather than gained by talk of 'shining
armour.' And the poet, scientist and business man will gain rather than lose if no longer connected
with Potsdam."]

FOOTNOTES:

[11] It is said that Russia took some steps towards mobilization as early as the 25th. If she
did, that would seem quite natural under the circumstances.

[12] There may possibly be found another explanation of these excesses--namely, in the galling
strictness of the Prussian military regime. After years and years of monotonously regulated
and official lives, it may be that to both officers and men, in their different ways, orgies
of one kind or another came as an almost inevitable reaction.

V.

THE CASE FOR GERMANY

Having put in the last chapter some of the points which seem to throw the immediate blame of
the war on Germany, it would be only fair in the present chapter to show how in the long run
and looking to the general European situation to-day as well as to the history of Germany in
the past, the war had become inevitable, and in a sense necessary, as a stage in the evolution
of European politics.

After the frightful devastation of Germany by the religious dissensions of the early part of
the seventeenth century and the Thirty Years War, it fell to Frederick the Great, not only
to lay a firm foundation for the Prussian State but to elevate it definitely as a rival to
Austria in the leadership of Germany. Thenceforth Prussia grew in power and influence, and
became the nucleus of a new Germany. It would almost seem that things could not well have been
otherwise. Germany was seeking for a new root from which to grow. Clerical and ultra-Catholic
Austria was of no use for this purpose. Bavaria was under the influence of France. Lutheran
Prussia attracted the best elements of the Teutonic mind. It seems strange, perhaps, that the
sandy wastes of the North-East, and its rather arid, dour population, should have become the
centre of growth for the new German nation, considering the latter's possession of its own
rich and vital characteristics, and its own fertile and beautiful lands; but so it was. Perhaps
the general German folk, with their speculative, easygoing, almost sentimental tendencies,
needed this hard nucleus of Prussianism--and its matter-of-fact, organizing type of ability--to
crystallize round.

The Napoleonic wars shattered the old order of society, and spread over Europe the seeds of
all sorts of new ideas, in the direction of nationality, republicanism, and so forth. Fichte,
stirred by Napoleon's victory at Jena (Fichte's birthplace) and the consequent disaster to
his own people, wrote his Addresses to the German Nation, pleading eloquently for a "national
regeneration." He, like Vom Stein, Treitschke, and many others in their time, came to Berlin
and established himself there as in the centre of a new national activity. Vom Stein, about
the same time, carried out the magnificent and democratic work by which he established on Napoleonic
lines (and much to Napoleon's own chagrin) the outlines of a great and free and federated Germany.
Carl von Clausewitz did in the military world much what Stein did in the civil world. He formulated
the strategical methods and teachings of Napoleon, and in his book Vom Krieg (published 1832)
not only outlined a greater military Germany, but laid the basis, it has been said, of all
serious study in the art of war. Vom Stein and Clausewitz died in the same year, 1831. In 1834
Heinrich von Treitschke was born.

The three Hohenzollern kings, all named Frederick William, who reigned from the death of Frederick
the Great (1786) to the accession of William I (1861) did not count much personally. The first
and third of those mentioned were decidedly weakminded, and the third towards the close of
his reign became insane. But the ideas already initiated in Germany continued to expand. The
Zollverein was established, the Teutonic Federation became closer, and the lead of Prussia
more decided. With the joint efforts of William I and Bismarck the policy became more governmental,
more positive, and more deliberate--the policy of consolidation and of aggrandisement; and
with this definite programme in view, Bismarck engineered the three wars of 1864, 1866, and
1870, against Denmark, Austria, and France. They all three had the effect of confirming the
military power of Prussia. The first war gave her a much desired increase of access to the
North Sea; the second led to the treaty with Austria, and ultimately to the formation of the
Triple Alliance; the third ended in the definite establishment of the Prussian hegemony, the
crowning of William I as Emperor, and the union and consolidation of all the German States
under him; but alas! it left a seed of evil in the wresting of Alsace-Lorraine from France.
For France never forgave this. Bismarck and Moltke knew she would not forgive, and were sorely
tempted to engineer a second war which should utterly disable her; but this war never came
off. The seed of Revenge, however, remained with France, and the seed of Fear with Germany;
and these two things were destined to lead to a harvest of disaster.

In 1866 Treitschke came to Berlin. Though Saxon by birth, he became ultra-Prussian in sympathy
and temperament. Somewhat deaf, and by no means yielding or facile in temper, he was not cut
out for a political career. But politics were his interest; his lectures on history were successful
at Leipzig and had still more scope at Berlin. He became the strongest of German Unionists,
and with a keen but somewhat narrow mind took an absolute pleasure in attacking every movement
or body of people that seemed to him in any way to stand in the path of Germany's advancement,
or not to assist in her consolidation. Thus he poured out his wrath in turn on Saxony (his
own land) and on Hanover, on the Poles, the Socialists, and the Catholics, and ultimately in
his later years on Britain.[13]

He conceived, following the lines of the Prussian tradition, that Germany had a great military
mission to fulfil. Her immense energy and power, which had bulked so large in the early history
of Europe, and which had been so sadly scattered during the religious wars, was now to come
to its own again. She was to make for herself a great place in Europe, and to expand in colonies
over the world. It was a pleasing and natural ambition, and the expression of it gave a great
vogue and popularity to Treitschke's lectures. The idea was enormously reinforced by the cause
which I have already mentioned and dwelt upon--the growth of the commercial interest in Germany.
From 1870 onwards this growth was huge and phenomenal. In a comparatively short time a whole
new social class sprang up in the land, and a whole new public opinion. If expansion from the
point of view of Junker ambition had been desirable before, the same from the point of view
of the financial and trading classes was doubly so now. If a military irruption into the politics
of the world was favoured before, it was clamoured for now when a powerful class had arisen
which not only, called the tune but could pay the piper.

Thus by the combination of military and commercial interests and entanglements the web of Destiny
was woven and Germany was hurried along a path which--though no definite war was yet in sight--was
certain to lead to war. The general military, programme of Treitschke, the conviction that
force and force alone could give his country her rightful place in the world, was more and
more cordially adopted. In a sense this was a perfectly natural and logical programme, and
amid the surrounding European conditions excusable--as I shall point out presently. But before
long it became a weird enthusiasm, almost an obsession. It was taken up over the land, and
repeated in a thousand books and on as many platforms. One of these propagandists was General
von Bernhardi, who entered in more detail into the technical and strategical aspects of the
programme. The rude and almost brutal frankness of both writers may be admired; but the want
of real depth and breadth of view cannot be concealed and must be deplored. The arguments in
favour of force, of unscrupulousness, of terrorism are--especially in Bernhardi[14]--casuistical
to a degree. They are those of a man who is determined to press his country into war at all
costs, and who will use any kind of logic as long as it will lead in his direction. The whole
movement--largely made possible by the political ignorance of the mass-people, of which I have
spoken in a former chapter--culminated in an extraordinary national fever of ambition; and
in the announcement of schemes for the Germanization of the world, almost juvenile in the want
of experience and the sense of proportion which they display. It would not be fair to take
one writer as conclusive; but as a specimen of the kind of thing we may quote the following
extract (given by Mr. H.A.L. Fisher, the Oxford historian, in his able brochure The War: Its
Causes and Issues) from the writings of Bronsart von Schellendorf: "Do not let us forget the
civilizing task which the decrees of Providence have assigned to us. Just as Prussia was destined
to be the nucleus of Germany, so the regenerated Germany shall be the nucleus of a future Empire
of the West. And in order that no one shall be left in doubt, we proclaim from henceforth that
our continental nation has a right to the sea, not only to the North Sea, but to the Mediterranean
and Atlantic. Hence we intend to absorb one after another all the provinces which neighbour
on Prussia. We will successively annex Denmark, Holland, Belgium, Northern Switzerland, then
Trieste and Venice, finally Northern France from the Sambre to the Loire. This programme we
fearlessly pronounce. It is not the work of a madman. The Empire we intend to found will be
no Utopia. We have ready to our hands the means of founding it, and no coalition in the world
can stop us."

Bronsart von Schellendorf (1832-91) was one of the Prussian Generals who negotiated the surrender
of the French at Sedan. He became Chief of the Staff, and War Minister (1883-9), and wrote
on Tactics, etc. His above utterance, therefore, cannot be neglected as that of an irresponsible
person.

There is, as I have already had occasion to say, a certain easygoing absurdity in the habit
we commonly have of talking of nations --"Germany," "France," "England," and so forth--as if
they were simple and plainly responsible persons or individuals, when all the time we know
perfectly well that they are more like huge whirlpools of humanity caused by the impact and
collision of countless and often opposing currents flowing together from various directions.
Yet there is this point of incontestable similarity between nations and individual persons,
that both occasionally go mad! If Germany was afflicted by a kind of madness or divine dementia
previous to the present war, Britain can by no means throw that in her teeth, for Britain certainly
went mad over Mafeking; and it was sheer madness that in 1870 threw the people of France and
Napoleon III--utterly unready for war as they were, and over a most trifling quarrel--into
the arms of Bismarck for the fulfilment of his schemes.

But that some sort of madness did, in consequence of the above-mentioned circumstances, seize
the German people shortly before the outbreak of the present war we can hardly doubt, though
(remembering the proverb) we must not put the blame for that on her, but on the gods. It was
a heady intoxication, caused largely, I believe, by that era of unexampled commercial prosperity
following upon a period of great political and military expansion, and confirmed by the direct
incitement of the military and political teachers I have mentioned. All these things, acting
on a people unskilled in politics--of whom Bernhardi himself says "We are a non-political people"[15]--had
their natural effect. But it seems part of the irony of fate that at this very juncture Germany
should have fallen under the influence of a man who of all the world was perhaps least fitted
to guide her steadily through a difficult crisis. "We all know the Kaiser," says Mr. Fisher,
"the most amazing and amusing figure on the great stage of politics. The outlines of his character
are familiar to everybody, for his whole life is spent in the full glare of publicity. We know
his impulsiveness, his naïveté, his heady fits of wild passion, his spacious curiosity and
quick grasp of detail, his portentous lack of humour and delicacy, his childish vanity and
domineering will. A character so romantic, spontaneous, and robust must always be a favourite
with the British people, who, were his lunacies less formidable, would regard him as the most
delectable burlesque of the age."

However the British generally may regard him, it is certain that the German nation accepted
him as their acclaimed leader. Clever, good-looking, versatile, imperious, fond of the romantic
pose, Wilhelm was exactly the hero in shining armour that would capture the enthusiasm of this
innocent people. They idolized him. And it is possible that their quick response confirmed
him in his rather generous estimate of his own capabilities. He dismissed Bismarck and became
his own Foreign Secretary, and entered upon a perilous career as Imperial politician, under
the aegis of God and the great tradition of the Hohenzollerns, a career made all the more perilous
by his constant change of rôle and his real uncertainty as to his own mind. His "seven thousand
speeches and three hundred uniforms" were only the numerous and really emblematic disguises
of a character unable to concentrate persistently and effectively on any one settled object.
With a kind of theatrical sincerity he made successive public appearances as War Lord or William
the Peaceful, as Artist, Poet, Architect, Biblical Critic, Preacher, Commercial Magnate, Generalissimo
of land forces and Creator of a World Navy; and with Whitman he might well have said, "I can
resist anything better than my own diversity."

If Wilhelm II was popular (as he was) among his own mass-people, it may well be guessed that
he was a perfect terror to his own political advisers and generals. Undoubtedly a large share
of responsibility for the failure of German diplomacy before the war, and of German strategy
during the war, must be laid to the account of his ever-changing plans and ill-judged interferences.
It is difficult, indeed, to imagine a character more dangerous as a great nation's leader.
But out of dangers great things do often arise. A kind of fatality, as I have said, has enveloped
the whole situation, and still leads on to new and pregnant evolutions for the German people
and for the whole world. Germany will in the end be justified, but in a way far different from
what she imagined.

Up to the period of Germany's rising commercial prosperity Germany and England had been on
fairly friendly terms. There was no particular cause of difference between them. But when Commercial
and Colonial expansion became a definite and avowed object of the former's policy, she found,
whereso she might look, that Britain was there, in the way--"everywhere British colonies, British
coaling stations, and floating over a fifth of the globe the British flag." Could anything
be more exasperating? And these "absent-minded beggars" the English, without any forethought
or science or design, without Prussian organization or Prussian bureaucracy and statecraft,
had simply walked into this huge inheritance without knowing what they were doing! It certainly
was most provoking. But what England had done why should not Germany do--and do it indeed much
better, with due science and method? Britain had shown no scruple in appropriating a fifth
part of the globe, and dealing summarily with her opponents, whether savage or civilized; why
should Germany show scruple?

And it must be confessed that here Germany had a very good case. Imitation is the sincerest
form of flattery. And if Germany, approving Britain's example, could only show herself strong
enough to imitate it in actual fact, Britain at least could not blame her. Besides, in her
internal industrial development Germany was already showing her equality with England. In her
iron and steel manufactures, her agricultural machines, her cutlery, her armament works, her
glass works, her aniline dyes, her toys, and her production of a thousand and one articles
(like lamps) of household use, she was showing a splendid record--better in some ways than
England. For while England was losing ground, Germany was gaining all the time. England was
becoming degenerate and lacking in enterprise. The Zeiss glassworks at Jena have now become
the centre of the optical-glass industry of the world. Carl Zeiss, the founder, tried hard
at one time to get the English glass-makers to turn out a special glass for his purpose, with
very high refractive index. They would not trouble about it. Zeiss consequently was forced
to take the matter up himself, succeeded at last in getting such glass made in Germany, and
"collared" the trade. The same happened in other departments.

A certain amount of friction arose. The Germans at one time, knowing the English reputation
for cutlery, marked their knives and razors as "made in Scheffield." The English retaliated
in what seemed an insulting way, by marking the Fatherland's goods as "made in Germany." With
Germany's success, commercial jealousy between the two nations (founded on the utterly mistaken
but popular notion that the financial prosperity of the country you trade with is inimical
to your own prosperity) began to increase. On the German side it was somewhat bitter. On the
English side, though not so bitter, it was aggravated by the really shameful ignorance prevailing
in this country with regard to things German, and the almost entire neglect of the German tongue
in our schools and universities and among our literary folk. As an expression (though one hopes
exceptional) of commercial jealousy on our side I may quote a passage from a letter from a
business friend of mine in Lancashire. He says: "I remember about a fortnight before the war
broke out with Germany having a conversation with a business man in Manchester, and he said
to me that we most certainly ought to join in with the other nations and sweep the Germans
off the face of the earth; I asked him why, and his only answer was, 'Look at the figures of
Germany's exports; they are almost as high as ours!' All he had against them was their enterprise--commercial
jealousy."

On the other hand, the head of a large warehouse told me only a few days later that when travelling
in Germany for his firm some fifteen years ago he had a conversation with a German, in the
course of which he (the Englishman) said: "I find your people so obliging and friendly that
I think surely whatever little differences there are between us as nations will be dispelled
by closer intercourse, and so all danger of war will pass away." "No," replied the German,
"you are quite mistaken. You and I are friendly; but that is only as individuals. As nations
we shall never rest till we have war. The English nation may well be contented because they
have already got all the good things of the Earth--their trade, their ports, their colonies;
but Germany will not allow this to go on for ever. She will fight for her rightful position
in the world; she will challenge England's mercantile supremacy. She will have to do so, and
she will not fail."[16]

Thus the plot thickened; the entanglement increased. The Boer War roused ill-feeling between
England and Germany. The German Navy Bill followed in 1900, and the Kaiser announced his intention
of creating a sea-power the equal of any in the world. Britain of course replied with her Navy
Bills; and the two countries were committed to a mad race of armaments. The whole of Europe
stood by anxious. Fear and Greed, the two meanest of human passions, ruled everywhere. Fear
of a militarist Germany began to loom large upon the more pacific States of Europe. On the
other hand, the fatality of Alsace-Lorraine loomed in Germany, full of forebodings of revenge.
France had found a friend in Russia--a sinister alliance. Britain, convinced that trouble was
at hand, came to an understanding with France in 1904 and with Russia in 1907. The Triple Entente
was born as a set-off against the Triple Alliance. The Agadir incident in 1911 betrayed the
purely commercial nature of the designs of the four Powers concerned--France, Spain, England,
and Germany--and a war over the corpse of Morocco was only narrowly avoided. Germany felt quite
naturally that she was the victim of a plot, and thenceforth was alternately convulsed by mad
Ambition and haunted by a lurking Terror.

And now we come to the last act of the great drama. 

Before our very eyes continues the work of denudation of the rocks with surprising activity. There
are mountains composed of incoherent materials that melt and dissolve see, shall we say well. Abrense
alfoces on the slopes of the mountain and gaps in the middle of the ridge, crossed by avalanches
and stormy waters the mass, once a lonely, little is divided by little in two distinct peaks,
which seem to get away from one another as it digs deeper the gulf that separates them.

Especially in spring when the soil is soaked with melting snow, the craters, piles, erosions reached such
proportions that the whole mountain seems to be apart and take the path of the plain.

A hot day wet and soft, I had gotten into an administrative district of the mountain to see
again snow before the spring waters carry. Continued to obstruct the bottom of the creek, but
in many places were covered remains unknown because blackish mixed with mud. The slate rocks that
seemed to dominate the administrative district turned into a kind of pasta and collapsed into
broad sheets. The black background is filtered through the walls Gorge sank with a dull splash in
the snow half liquid. Looked everywhere dirty snow falls and remains, and I wondered if some
instinctive fear, split the rocks as the snow itself, they would go above the valley unite in one mass
viscous pouring in the distance across the field. The torrent, which I discerned in some sites,
wells in which funds were abismado the upper layers of snow, perished transformed in a river
of ink covering the spoil waters, was that a huge mass of mud moving. Instead of clear sound and happy
we used to hear, the continuous stream launched mujido, the debris of colliding with each other
and rolled on his bed. In the spring, the annual renewal time land is when you see one as it is
verified that prodigious destructive work.

In addition, immense and invisible work is produced in the same stone.

All the changes caused by meteors are only exterior modifications, the intimate transformations
verified within the molecules of the rock have at least equally important results. While the
mountain changes constantly looking out, making the inside a structure new, and spun them change their
composition. Taken together, the mountain is a huge natural laboratory where they work all the
physical and chemical forces, using task for a sovereign agent is not available to men: time.

For
now, the enormous weight of the mountain, equal to hundreds of thousands of tons, weighs so powerfully
over the rocks below, which gives many of them look very different
which had to leave the sea.

Little by little, under the formidable pressure, shale and other shale formations are arranged in
sheets. Over the centuries thousands and thousands of that take place, the molecules are compressed
into thin leaflets that can be easily separated later, when after a geological revolution,
to be brought back to the surface rock. The action of terrestrial heat, which to a certain distance
at least, grows with depth, also contributes to changing the structure of rocks. This is how they became
the limestone in marble.

But not only come, they separate and molecules are grouped differently from the rocks, as physical
conditions encountered during the course of centuries, but also change
the composition of the rocks in a continuous run, a constant journey
of bodies site to move, mingle and prosecuted.

The water that penetrates all the cracks in the thickness of the mountain and steam rising from
the depths in deep, serve as principal vehicle to those elements that attract and repel then
carried away by the whirlwind geologic life. A crystal glass to another check in the recesses of
the mountain, iron, copper, silver and gold to replace the clay or with lime. The rock mate
acquires rainbow of the many substances that enter it. By the change in place of carbon, sulfur
and phosphorus, conviértese lime in marl, dolomite and crystalline speculum, in consequence of these
combinations the rock swells or shrinks, and slow speeds are verified within the mountain. Soon
the stone, squeezed into narrow space sick, lifts and separates top courses, brings down huge canvases,
and slow efforts, the results are equal to those in powerful explosion in a new way brings the
rocks of the mountain. Ora stone contracts, now splits, and opens in caves, and in galleries,
and verified large subsidence, thus altering the external appearance and the mountain. Each
modification close to the composition of the rock corresponds to a change in relief. The mountain
meet within itself all the geological revolutions. Has grown for thousands of centuries, has
decreased, during the same time, and succeed in their endless rows all the phenomena of growth
and decrease, of formation and destruction, which take place on earth in greater proportion.
The history of the mountain is that of the planet continued destruction, endless renewal.

Every rock summarizes a geologic period. In this mountain as graceful profile, which arises from
the land with noble attitudes, we would believe to see the work of a day, so much the unity of whole,
and therefore is presenting the details to the general harmony. And yet, this mountain has been
carved for a million centuries. There, former recounts the very old
granite ages that had not covered the ground slag plant fiber.

The egnesia that formed perhaps the time had not yet born animals and plants, says that when
Ocean left on its shores, had already been demolished by the waves some mountains. The slate
slab which preserves the bones of an animal, or only a slight mark, says the history of countless
generations that have followed on the ground in the ongoing battle of life: traces of footprint we
speak of those huge forests, represented after his death by light layers of coal, the limestone
cliff, crowding animals revealed by the microscope, makes us go to work the crowds of bodies inhabited
the ocean depths, the waste of all kinds remind us of stormwater snow, the glaciers, streams,
cleaning up the mountains as they do today and changing from one century to the scene of his activity.

When
you think of all these revolutions, in those incessant transformations in the continuum phenomena
that occur in the mountains, in the role it plays in overall life land and the history of mankind
is the first poets to understand that with the base Pamir or the Bolor, told myths which have led
all the rest. Dícennos the mountain is a creative, poured water on the plains and sends fertilizing
food silt, with the help of the sun, gives birth to plants, animals and men; da flowers in the desert
and planting happy cities. According to ancient legend Hellenic, which gave rise to the forests
and shaped the land was Eros, the god eternally young, firstborn
chaos, nature constantly renewed, the god of eternal love.

CHAPTER VII

Landslides # #

Becomes not only the mountain plain by erosion that make you suffer rain icy, slippery snow
and avalanches; also considerable fragments are torn violently to sink suddenly. Often such a
disaster in parts of the mountain where strata, straightened or bent,
are far apart from each other by different materials nature that water
can soften or dissolve.

If these substances come to intermediate disappear, the courses which
have no support in the valley will collapse sooner or later.

Beside the large pits, formed after fallen these remains, a hill,
a hill or to a high mountain.

A high peak, to which I liked to climb the lofty isolation and beauty its edges, had always seemed
to me (as the main summit) independent rock subject by their deep foundations to the underlying
land, and it was not, however, rather than a detached of the neighboring mountain. I met him
one day in the position of the layers and the appearance of flat visible fracture in the two
walls still relevant. The mass that had collapsed it villages, fields, forests and pastures,
had done after the break, rather than turn on its base and turn on
itself.

One side was buried in the ground, and the other side was partly uprooted. By fall it had
closed the exit of a valley, and the stream, which once flowed peacefully by his background, he
had to become to blind the lake basin that was locked and where to download today becomes current and
successive cascades. No doubt these changes occurred before they occupied the country because tradition
has not preserved the event. The geologist is the villager who has history of their own mountain.

As
to the minor landslides, falling rocks to those that unprocessed apparently the appearance of
the region, no longer destroy the grass, or crush the villages with their inhabitants, not the
mountain need to describe them, but unfortunately tired times have seen such terrible events.
Generally I usually know in advance. The momentum inside the mountain that works, incessantly vibrates
stones whole wall torn pebbles are separated first half and roll jumps along slopes; masses greater
weight, carried in his turn, continue to the stones, drawing as these powerful curves in the spaces,
then it is up to canvases whole rock, all what to crumble break the ties that bound the interior of
the mountain system, and awful hail of rocks suddenly falls on the
plain rocked.

The noise is indescribable; seems to struggle a hundred hurricanes. Even in the middle of the day,
pieces of rock, mixed with dust, topsoil and plant fragments, completely darken the sky. And
sometimes, lightning casualties caused by rocks that give each other, spring from the darkness.
After the storm, when the mountain is not clear from the plain of broken rock, when the atmosphere
is clear again, the inhabitants of the respected fields approach to contemplate the disaster.
Houses and gardens, fences and pastures have disappeared under the horrible chaos of stones: there
is also the eternal sleep sleeping friends and relatives. Some mountaineers me told that, in
its valley, a village destroyed twice by these avalanches of stones, has been built for the third
time in the same place. The people would have liked to run away and choose wide valley to his
home, but wanted to welcome any nearby town or assign land; have had to remain under threat of hanging
rocks. Every night some chimes remind the past terrors and warned the fate that might fit them
overnight.

Many rocks that are collapsed amid dire fields are legends, others there whose prey escaped.
One of those huge boulders, bending, and the embedded base everywhere on the floor, stands beside
the road. To admire its magnificent proportions, powerful mass, its fine grain, I felt some fear.
A Veredilla that depart from the road, going right to the foot of a formidable stone. There
were about debris piled up dishes and coal, the garden fence stopped abruptly in the rock and
acirates vegetables, half overrun with grass, surrounded on one side of the huge mass.

Who was chosen as whimsical place to establish a garden there and to leave then? Little by little
I understood. The trail, the coal pile, the garden had belonged then crushed to a hut on the
rock.

I learned later that night collapse one man slept in the house; despertóle startled the din
of rock, tip pointed down the mountain, and escaped out the window to seek shelter behind the
embankment of the river, had barely left his room, when the huge projectile collapsed on the cabin
and sank a few meters in the field under his weight. From his lucky escape, man rebuilt his
hut, home to confidently base another rock detached from the formidable wall.

In more than one valley are piles of stones, which form gorges where
hardly their way trails and streams.

Nothing is more curious that the disorder of these mixed stands endless maze. Upstairs in the
hillside, is still unknown, the color and shape rocks, where the release occurred, but it is inexplicable
that a such a short space dimension has been apparent in the valley like vomiting flood stones. In the
midst of these whimsical and formidable cliffs, the traveler that you crave a strange world,
in anything like the planet we know, at the regular or smooth surface winding. Alzanse similar
rocks here and there to great monuments, which include towers, obelisks, crenellated gates, shafts
of columns, tombs erected or demolished. Bridges one piece mask the stream; sort are engrossed
and disappearing under the huge water bow and to stop their noise heard. Among the buildings
appear monstrous giant forms, such as fossil animals, whose bones
are dislocated sometimes in layers of the earth.

Megatherium, mastodons, giant tortoises, crocodiles with wings, all those imaginary beings crammed into
terrible chaos. There are thousands of stones piled in the pass, and either could serve as sufficient
for quarry and construction entire villages.

These sets chaotic, I look with much admiration, and in whose womb penetrate not without hesitation,
are nothing compared to some mountains collapsed, the remains of districts covering great extent.
There are mountain masses whose vertices are composed of compact and heavy rock resting on layers
crumble easily by water. In such stands, falls stones are a normal phenomenon, such as landslides
and rain, and you should always look to the top if you prepare the release. In a region not
far away, called the country the ruins, there are two mountains, as residents have fought
in another time against each other. Both stone giants, bolstered by a vital blow, armed themselves
with rocks themselves to destroy and demolish each other. They failed, because it still standing,
but it is easy to imagine the prodigious rocks overcrowding that since that battle, cover the
plains in the distance.

Sometimes the man, in spite of their weakness, wished to imitate the
mountain, with the sole purpose to crush others.

Especially in gorges, in places where the narrow alfoz dominate steep gorges, where they met was the
Highlanders to roll the rocks over the heads of their enemies. Thus, the Basques hidden behind
the weeds on the slopes of the mountains of Altabiscar, hoped the French army Paladin Roldan,
who was to enter the narrow pass of Roncesvalles. When the columns of soldiers foreign resembling
long snake that slips through a crack, filled the gorge was heard a scream and a flood of rocks
fell down on the crowds passing below.
 The world-empire of
Goethe and Beethoven is even now far more extensive, far more powerful, than that which Wilhelm
II and his Junkers are seeking to encompass. There is something common, unworthy, in the effort
of domination; and while the Great Powers have thus vulgarized themselves, it is the little
countries who have gone forward in the path of progress. "In modern Europe what do we not owe
to little Switzerland, lighting the torch of freedom six hundred years ago, and keeping it
alight through all the centuries when despotic monarchies held the rest of the European Continent?
And what to free Holland, with her great men of learning and her painters surpassing those
of all other countries save Italy? So the small Scandinavian nations have given to the world
famous men of science, from Linnaeus downwards, poets like Tegner and Björnson, scholars like
Madvig, dauntless explorers like Fridthiof Nansen. England had, in the age of Shakespeare,
Bacon, and Milton, a population little larger than that of Bulgaria to-day. The United States,
in the days of Washington and Franklin and Jefferson and Hamilton and Marshall, counted fewer
inhabitants than Denmark or Greece."[19]

In all their internal politics and social advancement, Switzerland, Holland, Denmark, Norway
and Sweden, Finland (until the paw of the Bear was on her) and Belgium (till the claw of the
Spread-Eagle) have been well to the fore. It is they who have carried on the banner of idealism
which Germany herself uplifted when she was a small people or a group of small peoples. It
is they who have really had prosperous, healthy, independent, and alert populations. How much
more interesting, we may say, would Europe be under the variety of such a regime than under
the monotonous bureaucracy and officialism of any Great Power! And to some such scheme we must
adhere. It would mean, of course, the alliance of all the States of Western Europe, large and
small (and including both a remodelled Germany and a largely remodelled Austria) in one great
Federation--whose purpose would be partly to unite and preserve Europe against any common foe,
from the East or elsewhere, and partly to regulate any overweening ambition of a member of
the Federation, such as might easily become a menace to the other members. A secondary but
most important result of the formation of such a United States of Europe would be that while
each State would probably preserve a small military establishment of its own, the enormous
and fatal incubus of the present armaments system would be rendered unnecessary, and so at
last the threat of national bankruptcy and ruin, which has of late pursued the nations Like
an evil dream, might pass away. But in that matter of finance it cannot be disguised that a
terrible period still awaits the European peoples. Already the moneylenders sitting on their
chests form a veritable nightmare; but with fresh debts by the thousand million sterling being
contracted, there is great danger that the mass-peoples beneath will be worse paralysed and
broken even than they are now--unless, indeed, with a great effort they rouse themselves and
throw off the evil burden.

That the world is waking up to a recognition of racial rights--that is, the right of each race
to have as far as possible its own Government, instead of being lorded over by an alien race--is
a good sign; and a European settlement along that line must be pressed for. At last, after
centuries of discomfort, we at home are finding our solution of the Irish question in this
very obvious way; and it may be that Europe, tired of war, may finally have the sense to adopt
the same principle. Of course, there are cases where populations are so mixed, as, for instance,
the Czechs and Slovaks and Germans in Bohemia and Moravia, or where small colonies of one race
are so embedded in the midst of another race, as are the Germans among the Roumanians of Transylvania,
that this solution may be difficult. That is no reason, however, why the general principle
should not be applied. It must, indeed, be applied if Europe is not to return to barbarism.

And it interests us--having regard to what I have said about class rule being so fruitful a
cause of war--to remember that the rule of one race by another always does mean class rule.
The alien conquerors who descend upon a country become the military and landlord caste there.
Thus the Norman barons in England, the English squires in Ireland, the Magyars in Hungary,
the German barons in East Prussia and the Baltic provinces, and so forth. They make their profit
and maintain themselves out of the labour and the taxation of the subject peoples.

In the earlier forms of social life, when men lived in tribes, a rude equality and democracy
prevailed; there was nothing that could well be called class-government; there was simply custom
and the leadership of the elders of the tribe. Then with the oncoming of what we call civilization,
and the growth of the sense of property, differences arose--accumulations of wealth and power
by individuals, enslavements of tribes by other tribes; and classes sprang up, and class-government,
and so the material of endless suffering and oppression and hatred and warfare. I have already
explained (in the Introduction) that Class in itself as the mere formation within a nation
of groups of similar occupation and activity--working harmoniously with each other and with
the nation--is a perfectly natural and healthy phenomenon; it is only when it means groups
pursuing their own interests counter to each other and to the nation that it becomes diseased.
There will come a time when the class-element in this latter sense will be ejected from society,
and society will return again to its democratic form and structure. There will be no want,
in that time, of variety of occupation and talent, or of differentiation in the social organism;
quite the contrary; but simply there will be no predatory or parasitical groups within such
organism, whose, interests will run counter to the whole, and which will act (as such classes
act now) as foci and seedbeds of disease and strife within the whole. With a return to the
recognition of racial rights and autonomies over the world, it is clear that one great cause
of strife will be removed, and we shall be one step nearer to the ending of the preposterous
absurdity of war.

And talking about the difficulty of sorting out mixed populations, or of dealing with small
colonies of one race embedded in the midst of another race, it is evident that once you get
rid of autocratic or military or class-government of any kind, and return to democratic forms,
this difficulty will be much reduced or disappear. Small democratic communes are perfectly
simple to form in groups of any magnitude or minuteness which may be desirable; and such groups
would easily federate or ally themselves with surrounding democracies of alien race, whereas
if lorded over by alien conquerors they would be in a state of chronic rebellion. Of such democratic
alliance and federation of peoples of totally different race, Switzerland supplies a well-recognized
and far-acclaimed example.

       *       *       *       *       *

That in the future there will be an outcry in favour of Conscription made by certain parties
in Britain goes without saying; but that must be persistently opposed. The nation says it is
fighting to put down Militarism. Why, then, make compulsory militarism foundational in our
national life? To abolish militarism by militarism is like "putting down Drink" by swallowing
it! The whole lesson of this war is against conscription. Germany could never have "imposed
herself" on Europe without it. And yet her soldiers, brave as they naturally are, and skilfully
as they have fought, have not done themselves justice. How could they under such conditions--forced
into battle by their officers, flung in heaps on the enemy's guns? The voluntary response in
Britain to the call to arms has been inspiriting; and if voluntaryism means momentary delay
in a crisis, still it means success in the end. No troops have fought more finely than the
British. Said Surgeon-General Evatt, speaking in London in October--and General Evatt's word
in such a matter ought to carry weight: "After long experience in studying Russian, German,
Bavarian, Saxon, French, Spanish, and American fighting units, my verdict is unhesitatingly
in favour of the British.... What has occurred lately has been a splendid triumph of citizenship,
because people were allowed their proper liberty and the consciousness of freely, sharing in
a great Empire."

Besides it must always be remembered that conscription gives a Government power to initiate
an iniquitous war, whereas voluntaryism keeps the national life clean and healthy. A free people
will not fight for the trumped-up schemes and selfish machinations of a class--not, indeed,
unless they are grossly deceived by, Press and Class plots. Anyhow, to force men to fight in
causes which they do not approve, to compel them to adopt a military career when their temperaments
are utterly unsuited to such a thing, or when their consciences or their religion forbid them--these
things are both foolish and wicked.

If the nation wants soldiers it must pay for them. England, for example, is rolling in wealth;
and it is simply a scandal that the wealthy classes should sit at home in comfort and security
and pay to the man in the trenches--who is risking his life at every moment, and often living
in such exhaustion and misery as actually to wish for the bullet which will end his life--no
more than the minimum wage of an ordinary day-labourer; and that they should begrudge every
penny paid to his dependents--whether he be living or dead--or to himself when he returns,
a lifelong cripple, to his home. To starve and stint your own soldiers, to discourage recruiting,
and then to make the consequent failure of men to come forward into an excuse for conscription
is the meanest of policies. As a matter of fact, the circumstances of the present war show
that with anything like decent reward for their services there is an abundant, an almost over-abundant,
supply of men ready to flock to the standard of their country in a time of necessity. Nor must
it be forgotten, in this matter of pay, that the general type and average of our forces to-day,
whether naval or military, is far higher than it was fifty, years ago. The men are just as
plucky, and more educated, more alert, more competent in every way. To keep them up to this
high standard of efficiency they need a high standard of care and consideration.

It may, however, be said--in view of our present industrial conditions, and the low standard
of physical health and vitality prevailing among the young folk of our large towns--that physical
drill and scout training, including ambulance and other work, and qualification in some useful
trade, might very well be made a part of our general educational system, for rich and poor
alike, say, between the ages of sixteen and eighteen. Such a training would to each individual
boy be immensely valuable, and by providing some rudimentary understanding of military, affairs
and the duties of public service and citizenship, would enable him to choose how he could be
helpful to the nation--provided always he were not forced to make his choice in a direction
distasteful or repugnant to him. In any good cause, as in a war of defence against a foreign
enemy, it is obvious enough, as I have said, that there would be plenty of native enthusiasm
forthcoming without legal or official pressure. However, I have enlarged a little on the subject
of Conscription in a later chapter, and will say no more here.

But the burning and pressing question is: Why should we--we, the "enlightened and civilized"
nations of Europe--get involved in these senseless wars at all? And surely this war will, of
all wars, force an answer to the question. Here, for the last twenty years, have these so-called
Great Powers been standing round, all professing that their one desire is peace, and all meanwhile
arming to the teeth; each accusing the others of militant intentions, and all lamenting that
"war is inevitable." Here they have been forming their Ententes and Alliances, carrying on
their diplomatic cabals and intrigues, studying the map and adjusting the Balance of Power--all,
of course, with the best intentions--and lo! with the present result! What nonsense! What humbug!
What an utter bankruptcy of so-called diplomacy! When will the peoples themselves arise and
put a stop to this fooling--the people who give their lives and pay the cost of it all? If
the present-day, diplomats and Foreign Ministers have sincerely striven for peace, then their
utter incapacity and futility have been proved to the hilt, and they must be swept away. If
they have not sincerely striven for peace, but only pretended to so strive, then also they
must be swept away, for deceit in such a matter is unpardonable.

And no doubt the latter alternative is the true one. There has been a pretence of the Governments
all round--a pretence of deep concern for humanity and the welfare of the mass-peoples committed
to their charge; but the real moving power beneath has been class-interest--the interest of
the great commercial class in each nation, with its acolyte and attendant, the military or
aristocratic. It is this class, with its greeds and vanities and suspicions and jealousies,
which is the cause of strife; the working-masses of the various nations have no desire to quarrel
with each other. Nay, they are animated by a very different spirit.

In an interesting article published by the German Socialist paper Vorwärts, on September 27,
1914, and reproduced in our Press, occurred the following passage, in which the war is traced
to its commercial sources: "Germany has enjoyed an economical prosperity such as no other country
has experienced during the last decade. That meant with the capitalist class a revival of strong
Imperialist tendencies, which have been evident enough. This, again, gave rise to mistrust
abroad, at least in capitalist circles, who did their best to communicate their feelings to
the great masses, ... and so the German people as a whole has been made responsible for what
has been the work of a small class.... The comrades abroad can be assured that though German
workmen are ready to defend their country they will, above all, not forget that their interests
are the same as those of the proletariat in other countries, who also against their will were
forced into the war and now do their duty. They can rest assured that the German people are
not less humane than others--a result to which education through workmen's organizations has
greatly contributed. If German soldiers in the excitement of war should commit atrocities,
it can be said that among us--and also in other circles--there will not be a single person
to approve of them."

Reading this statement--so infinitely more sensible and human than anything to be found in
the ordinary Capitalist Press of England and Germany--one cannot help feeling that there is
practically little hope for the future until the international working masses throughout Europe
come forward and, joining hands with each other, take charge of the foolish old Governments
(who represent the remains of the decadent feudal and commercial systems), and shape the Western
world at last to the heart's desire of the peoples that inhabit it.

"The peoples of the world desire peace," said Bourtzeff, the Russian exile[20]--and he, who
has been in many lands, ought to know. But they also--if they would obtain peace--must exercise
an eternal vigilance lest they fall into the hands of class-schemers and be betrayed into that
which they do not desire. The example of Germany--which we have considered above--shows how
easily a good and friendly and pacific people may, by mere political inattention and ignorance,
and by a quasi-scientific philosophy, which imposes on its political ignorance, be led into
a disastrous situation. It shows how preposterous it is that Governments generally--as at present
constituted--should set themselves up as the representatives of the mass-peoples' wishes, and
as the arbiters of national destinies. And it shows how vitally necessary it is that the people,
even the working masses and the peasants, should have some sort of political education and
understanding.

In that matter, of the political education of the masses, America, in her United States and
Canada, yields a fine example. Though not certainly perfect, her general standard of education
and alertness is infinitely superior to that of the peoples of the Old World. And some writers
contend that it is just in that--in her general level and not in her freaks of genius--that
America's claim lies to distinction among the nations of the earth. If you consider the peoples
of the Old World, whether in England, Scotland, or Ireland, in France, Spain, Italy, Germany,
Austria, Russia, or farther East and farther South over the earth, you will find the great
masses, on the land or in the workshops, still sunk in vast ignorance, apathy, and irresponsibility.
Only here and there among those I have mentioned, and notably among the smaller peoples of
Western Europe, like Switzerland, Holland, Denmark, and Sweden, are the masses beginning to
stir, as it were, towards the daylight. It can only be with the final opening of their eyes
and awakening from slumber that the rule of the classes will be at an end. But that awakening--with
the enormous spread of literature and locomotion and intercommunication of all kinds over the
modern world, cannot now, one would say, be long delayed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile, and until that era arrives, we can only insist (at any rate in our own country)
on a different kind of foreign policy from what we have had--a policy open and strong, not
founded on Spread-Eagleism, and decidedly not founded on commercialism and the interests of
the trading classes (as the Empire League seem to desire), but directed towards the real welfare
of the masses in our own and other lands. If our rulers and representatives really seek peace,
here is the obvious way to ensue and secure it--namely, by making political friends of those
in all countries who desire peace and are already stretching hands of amity to each other.
What simpler and more obvious way can there be? "We hail our working-class comrades of every
land," says the Manifesto of the Independent Labour Party. "Across the roar of guns we send
greeting to the German Socialists. They have laboured unceasingly to promote good relations
with Britain, as we with Germany. They are no enemies of ours, but faithful friends. In forcing
this appalling crime upon the nations, it is the rulers, the diplomats, the militarists, who
have sealed their doom. In tears and blood and bitterness the greater Democracy will be born.
With steadfast faith we greet the future; our cause is holy and imperishable, and the labour
of our hands has not been in vain."

Yes, we must have a foreign policy strong and sincere--and not only so, but open and avowed.
The present Diplomatic system is impossible of continuance. It has grown up in an automatic
way out of antiquated conditions, and no one in particular can be blamed for it. But that young
men, profoundly ignorant of the world, and having the very borné outlook on life which belongs
to our gilded youth (67 per cent. of the candidates for the Diplomatic Corps being drawn from
Eton alone), having also in high degree that curious want of cosmopolitan sympathy and adaptability
which is characteristic of the English wealthy classes (every candidate for the Corps must
have at least £400 a year of his own)--that such a type should be charged with the representation
of the United Kingdom in foreign affairs is to-day a hopeless anomaly, and indeed a very great
danger. The recommendations just published of the Royal Commission are in the right direction,
but they need urgent reinforcement and extension by the pressure of public opinion. And if
in the present-day situation of affairs we cannot refer every question which arises directly
to the nation, we must at least do away with the one-man-Secretary system, and have in his
place a large and responsible committee, representative, not of any one party or class but
as far as possible of the whole people. [At this moment, for instance, as far as we know, the
terms of settlement of the present war may actually be being arranged over our heads, and yet
that may be taking place quite apart from the approval and the wishes of the most weighty portion
of the nation.]

Another thing that we must look to with some hope for the future is the influence of Women.
Profoundly shocked as they are by the senseless folly and monstrous bloodshed of the present
conflict, it is certain that when this phase is over they will insist on having a voice in
the politics of the future. The time has gone by when the mothers and wives and daughters of
the race will consent to sit by meek and silent while the men in their madness are blowing
each other's brains out and making mountains out of corpses. It is hardly to be expected that
war will cease from the earth this side of the millennium; but women will surely only, condone
it when urged by some tremendous need or enthusiasm; they will not rejoice--as men sometimes
do--in the mere lust of domination and violence. With their keen perception of the little things
of life, and the way in which the big things are related to these, they will see too clearly
the cost of war in broken hearts and ruined homes to allow their men to embark in it short
of the direst necessity.

And through the women I come back to the elementary causes and roots of the present war--the
little fibres in our social life which have fed, and are still feeding, the fatal tree whose
fruits are, not the healing but the strife of nations. In the present day--though there may
be other influences--it is evident enough that rampant and unmeasured commercial greed, concentrating
itself in a special class, is the main cause, the tap-root, of the whole business. And this,
equally evidently, springs out of the innumerable greed of individuals--the countless fibres
that combine to one result--the desire of private persons to get rich quick at all costs, to
make their gains out of others' losses, to take advantage of each other, to triumph in success
regardless of others' failures. And these unworthy motives and inhuman characteristics again
spring obviously out of the mean and materialistic ideals of life which still have sway among
us--the ideals of wealth and luxury and display--of which the horrors of war are the sure and
certain obverse. As long as we foster these things in our private life, so long will they lead
in our public life to the embitterment of nation against nation. What is the ruling principle
of the interior and domestic conduct of each nation to-day--even within its own borders--but
an indecent scramble of class against class, of individual against individual? To rise to noisy
power and influence, and to ill-bred wealth and riches, by trampling others down and profiting
by their poverty is--as Ruskin long ago told us--the real and prevailing motive of our peoples,
whatever their professions of Christianity may be. Small wonder, then, if out of such interior
conditions there rise to dominance in the great world those very classes who exhibit the same
vulgarities in their most perfect form, and that their conflict with each other, as between
nation and nation, exhibit to us, in the magnified and hideous form of war, the same sore which
is all the time corrupting our internal economy. The brutality, and atrocity of modern war
is but the reflection of the brutality and inhumanity of our commercial regime and ideals.
The slaughter of the battlefields may be more obvious, but it is less deliberate, and it is
doubtful whether it be really worse, than the daily and yearly slaughter of the railways, the
mines, and the workshops. That being so, it is no good protesting against, and being shocked
at, an evil which is our very own creation; and to cry out against war-lords is useless, when
it is our desires and ambitions which set the war-lords in motion. Let all those who indulge
and luxuriate in ill-gotten wealth to-day (and, indeed, their name is Legion), as well as all
those who meanly and idly groan because their wealth is taken from them, think long and deeply
on these things. Truth and simplicity of life are not mere fads; they are something more than
abstractions and private affairs, something more than social ornaments. They are vital matters
which lie at the root of national well-being. They are things which in their adoption or in
their denial search right through the tissue of public life. To live straightforwardly by your
own labour is to be at peace with the world. To live on the labour of others is not only to
render your life false at home, but it is to encroach on those around you, to invite resistance
and hostility; and when such a principle of life is favoured by a whole people, that people
will not only be in a state of internal strife, but will assuredly raise up external enemies
on its borders who will seek its destruction.

The working masses and the peasants, whose lives are in the great whole honest--who support
themselves (and a good many others besides) by their own labour--have no quarrel; and they
are the folk who to-day --notwithstanding lies and slanders galore, and much of race-prejudice
and ignorance--stretch hands of amity and peace to each other wellnigh all over the world.
It is of the modern moneyed classes that we may say that their life-principle (that of taking
advantage of others and living on their labour) is essentially false[21]; and these are the
classes which are distinctively the cause of enmities in the modern world, and which, as I
have explained above, are able to make use of the military class in order to carry out their
designs. It can only be with the ending of the commercial and military classes, as classes,
that peace can come to the world. China, founded on the anti-commercial principles of Confucius,
disbanded her armies a thousand years ago, and only quite lately--under the frantic menace
of Western civilization--felt compelled to reorganize them. She was a thousand years before
her time. It can only be with the emergence of a new structure of society, based on the principle
of solidarity and mutual aid among the individuals of a nation, and so extending to solidarity
and mutual aid among nations, that peace can come to the Western world. It is the best hope
of the present war that, like some frightful illness, it marks the working out of deep-seated
evils and their expulsion from the social organism; and that with its ending the old false
civilization, built on private gain, will perish, crushed by its own destructive forces; and
in its place the new, the real culture, will arise, founded on the essential unity of mankind.

FOOTNOTES:

[18] Reprinted by permission from the English Review for January, 1915.

[19] Lord Bryce in the Daily Chronicle, October, 1914.

[20] In a letter to the Times, September 18, 1914.

[21] There is no reason in itself why Commercialism should be false. Commerce and interchange
of goods is of course a perfectly natural and healthy function of social life. Indeed, it is
a function which should have a most beneficent influence in binding nations together. It is
when that function is perverted to private gain that it becomes false. But of course without
this perversion there would be no distinctively commercial class with interests opposed to
those of the community.

VII

PATRIOTISM AND INTERNATIONALISM

Many Socialists and sympathizers with the Labour movement over the world belittle Patriotism,
and seem to think that by decrying and discouraging the love of one's country one will bring
nearer the day of Internationalism.

I do not agree. Of course we all know there is a lot of sham and false Patriotism--such as,
for instance, Pressmongers magnify and make use of in order to sell their papers, or such as
comfortable, well-to-do folk with big dividends do so heartily encourage among the poorer classes,
who can thus be persuaded to fight for them; we know, indeed, that there is a good deal of
very mean and unworthy Patriotism--the flag-waving variety, for instance, which we saw in the
Boer war--exultant over a small nation of farmers defending their homes, and whipped up deliberately
by a commercial gang for their own purposes; or the narrow-minded, lying, canting variety which
blinds a people to its own faults, and credits itself with all the moral virtues, while at
the same time it gloats over every defamation of the enemy. There is a good deal of that variety
in the present war. And it is easy to understand that many people, sick of that sort of Patriotism,
would go straight for a ready-made denial of all frontiers and boundaries.

Still, allowing to the full all that can be said in the above direction, one must admit also
that there is such a thing as a true Patriotism, and I do not see why--however socialist or
cosmopolitan we may be--we should not recognize what is an obvious fact. There is a love of
one's own country--a genuine attachment to and preference for it--"in spite of all temptations
to belong to other nations"--which after all is very natural, and on the whole a sound and
healthy thing. There may be some people whose minds are so lofty that to them all peoples and
races are alike and without preference; but one knows that the vast multitudes of our mortal
earth are not made like that. "If a man love not his brother whom he hath seen, how shall he
love God whom he hath not seen?" It is certainly easier and more natural to make an effort
and a sacrifice for the sake of your own countrymen whom you know so well and with whom you
are linked by a thousand ties than for the sake of foreigners who are little more than a name--however
worthy you may honestly believe the latter to be. It is more obvious and instinctive for a
man to work for his own family than to give his services to his municipality or his county
council. Charity begins at home, and the wider spirit of human love and helpfulness which passes
beyond the narrow bounds of the family hearth has perhaps to find an intermediate sphere before
it can unfold itself and expand in the great field of Humanity among all colours and races.

Personally, I am probably more International by temperament than Patriotic. I feel a strange
kinship and intimacy with all sorts of queer and outlandish races--Chinese, Egyptian, Mexican,
or Polynesian--and always a slight but persistent sense of estrangement and misapprehension
among my own people. Flag-waving certainly, does not stir me. Still, I feel that, whatever
one's country may be, the love of it has value and is not to be scoffed at. The Nation is bigger
than the Parish; and to a man of limited outlook it is a means of getting him out of his own
very narrow and local circle of life; to rob him of that in order to jump him into a cosmopolitan
attitude (which to him may be quite empty and arid) is a mistake. It is easy enough to break
the shell for the growing chick, but if you break it too soon your chick, when hatched, will
be dead.

If you look at the great majority of those who are enthusing just now about our country and
patriotically detesting the Germans, you will see that notwithstanding lies and slanders and
cant galore, and much of conceit and vanity, their patriotism is pulling them together from
one end of Britain to another, causing them to help each other in a thousand ways, urging them
to make sacrifices for the common good, helping them to grow the sinews and limbs of the body
politic, and even the wings which will one day transport that body into a bigger world. Really,
I think we ought to be very grateful to the Germans for doing all this for us; and the Germans
ought to be grateful to us for an exactly similar reason. You will see plainly enough that
the great majority of those who are at this moment giving their thoughts and lives for their
countrymen and neighbours either in Germany or in England could not by any manner of possibility
be expected to act with similar self-surrender and enthusiasm in an International cause. They
are not grown to that point of development yet, and it is better that they should learn helpfulness
and brotherhood within somewhat narrow bounds than perhaps not learn these things at all in
the open and indiscriminate field of universal equality. After all, to stimulate love and friendship
there is nothing like a common enemy!

It is an old story and an old difficulty. There comes a time when every institution of social
life becomes rotten and diseased and has to be removed to make way for the new life which is
expanding behind it. Broadly speaking, we may say that the institution of Patriotism is approaching
this period--at any rate over Western Europe. The outlines of an International life are becoming
clearly visible behind it.

What we have to do is to help on that international life and spirit to our best, and certainly
clear out a lot of sham patriotism that stands in its way; but this has to be done with discrimination
and a certain tact. People must be made to see that "my country, right or wrong," is not the
genuine article. They must be made to understand how easily this sort of slapdash sentiment
throws them into the hands of scheming politicians and wire-pullers for sinister purposes--how
readily it can be made use of directly it has become a mere unreasoning instinct and habit.
If a war is wanted, or conscription, or a customs tariff--it may be merely to suit the coward
fears of autocratic rulers, or the selfish interests of some group of contractors or concession-hunters--all
that the parties concerned have to do is to play the patriotic stop, and they stand a good
chance of getting what they want. Just now there is a good bit of fleecing going on in this
fashion--both of the public and the wage-workers. Even in its more healthy forms, when delayed
in too long, patriotism easily becomes morbid and delays also the birth of the larger spirit
which is waiting behind it. The Continental Socialists complain that their cause has hitherto
made little progress in Alsace-Lorraine and Poland for the simple reason that political circumstances
have over-accentuated the patriotic devotion in both these regions.

Thus we have to push on with discrimination. Always we have to remember that the wide, free
sense of equality and kinship which lies at the root of Internationalism is the real goal,
and that the other thing is but a step on the way, albeit a necessary step. Always we have
to press on towards that great and final liberation--the realization of our common humanity,
the recognition of the same great soul of man slumbering under all forms in the heart of all
races--the one guarantee and assurance of the advent of World-peace.

That we are verging rapidly towards some altered perspective I quite believe; and the day is
coming when in the social and political spheres International activity will make excessive
patriotism seem somewhat ridiculous--as, in fact, it has already done in the spheres of Science
and Industry and Art. Still, I also do not see any reason why the two tendencies should not
work side by side. The health of local organs and members in the human body is by no means
incompatible with the health of the whole organism, and we may understand the great map of
Humanity all the better for its being differently coloured in different parts.

VIII

THE PSYCHOLOGY OF, WAR AND RECRUITING

November, 1914.

I sometimes think the country-folk round about where I live the most sensible people I know.
They say with regard to the War--or said at its outset: "What are they fighting about? I can't
make out, and nobody seems to know. What I've seen o' the Germans they're a decent enough folk--much
like ourselves. If there's got to be fightin', why don't them as makes the quarrel go and fight
wi' each other? But killing all them folk that's got no quarrel, and burnin' their houses and
farms, and tramplin' down all that good corn--and all them brave men dead what can never live
again--its scandalous, I say."

This at the outset. But afterwards, when the papers had duly explained that the Germans were
mere barbarians and savages, bent on reducing the whole world to military slavery, they began
to take sides and feel there was good cause for fighting. Meanwhile almost exactly the same
thing was happening in Germany, where England was being represented as a greedy and deceitful
Power, trying to boss and crush all the other nations. Thus each nation did what was perhaps,
from its own point of view, the most sensible thing to do--persuaded itself that it was fighting
in a just and heroic cause, that it was a St. George against the Dragon, a David out to slay
Goliath.

The attitude of the peasant, however, or agriculturist, all over the world, is the same. He
does not deal in romantic talk about St. George and the Dragon. He sees too clearly the downright
facts of life. He has no interest in fighting, and he does not want to fight. Being the one
honest man in the community--the one man who creates, not only his own food but the food of
others besides, and who knows the value of his work, he perceives without illusion the foolery
of War, the hideous waste of it, the shocking toll of agony and loss which it inflicts--and
if left to himself would as a rule have no hand in it. It is only occasionally--when ground
down beyond endurance by the rent-racking classes above him, or threatened beyond endurance
by an enemy from abroad, that he turns his reaping-hook into a sword and his muck-fork into
a three-pronged bayonet, exchanges his fowling-piece for a rifle, and fights savagely for his
home and his bit of a field.

England, curiously enough, is almost the only country in the world where the peasant or ordinary
field-worker has no field of his own[22]; and I find that in the villages and among the general
agricultural population there is even now but little enthusiasm for the present war--though
the raid on our coasts at Scarborough and other places certainly did something to stimulate
it. Partly this is, as I have said, because the agricultural worker knows that his work is
foundational, and that nothing else is of importance compared with it. [At this moment, for
instance, there are peasants in Belgium and Northern France ploughing and sowing, and so forth,
actually close to the trenches and between the fighting lines.] Partly it is because in England,
alas! the countryman has so little right or direct interest in the soil. One wonders sometimes
why he should feel any enthusiasm. Why should men want to fight for their land when they have
no land to fight for--when the most they can do is to die at the foot of a trespass-board,
singing, "Britons never, never shall be slaves!"

If the War is ever finished, surely one of the first things to be insisted on afterwards, with
regard to England, must be the settlement of the actual people (not the parasites) on the land.
Else how, after all that they have gone through, can it be expected that they will ever again
"fight for their country"? But that this vast landless population in the villages and country
districts--hungering as it is for some sure tenure and interest in the soil--should actually,
as now, be berated and scolded by superior persons of the "upper" classes, and threatened with
conscription if it does not "come forward" more readily, is a spectacle sufficient to gratify
the most hardened cynic.

Certainly it is remarkable that such numbers of the great working masses of this country (including
villagers) should come forward in connexion with the war, and join the standard and the ranks
of fighting men--as they do--and it is a thing for which one must honour them. But in that
matter there are not a few considerations to be kept in mind.

In the first place a large number are not really very enthusiastic, but simply join because
pressure to do so is put upon them by their "masters." The press-gangs of old exist no longer,
but substitutes for them revive in subtler form. Many large landlords, for instance, have given
notice to a percentage of their gamekeepers, gardeners, park employees, and the like, to the
effect that their services are no longer required, but that if they enlist in the ranks now
they will be reinstated in their masters' service again when the war is over ("if still alive"
is, we presume, understood). Large numbers of manufacturing and other firms have notified their
workmen and clerks in similar terms. This means pretty serious economic pressure. A man in
the prime of life, suddenly ousted from his job, and with no prospect either of finding a similar
job elsewhere or of learning any new one, is in a pretty fix. His only certain refuge lies
in the fact that he can be taught to use a rifle in a few weeks; and in a few weeks perhaps
it becomes clear to him that to accept that offer and the pay that goes with it--poor as it
is--is his only chance.

There are others, again--perhaps a very large number--who do not care much about the war in
itself, and probably have only the vaguest notion of what it is all about, but for them to
join the ranks means adventure, comradeship, the open air--all fascinating things; and they
hail the prospect with joy as an escape from intolerable dullness--from the monotony of the
desk and the stuffy office, from the dreary round and mechanical routine of the factory bench,
from the depressing environment of "home" and domestic squalor.

I must confess--though I have no general prejudice in favour of war--that I have been much
struck, since the outbreak of the present one, by the altered look of crowds of young men whom
I personally know--who are now drilling or otherwise preparing for it. The gay look on their
faces, the blood in their cheeks, the upright carriage and quick, elate step--when compared
with the hang-dog, sallow, dull creatures I knew before--all testify to the working of some
magic influence.

As I say, I do not think that this influence in most cases has much to do with enthusiasm for
the "cause" or any mere lust of "battle" (happily indeed for the most part they do not for
a moment realize what modern battle means). It is simply escape from the hateful conditions
of present-day commercialism and its hideous wage-slavery into something like the normal life
of young manhood--a life in the open under the wide sky, blood-stirring enterprise, risk if
you will, co-operation and camaraderie. These are the inviting, beckoning things, the things
which swing the balance down--even though hardships, low pay, and high chances of injury and
death are thrown in the opposite scale.

Nevertheless, and despite these other considerations, there does certainly remain, in this
as in other wars, a fair number of men among those who enlist who are bonâ fide inspired by
some Ideal which they feel to be worth fighting for. It may be Patriotism or love of their
country; it may be "to put down militarism"; it may be Religion or Honour or what not. And
it is fine that it should be so. They may in cases be deluded, or mistaken about facts; the
ideal they fight for may be childish (as in the mediaeval Crusades); still, even so it is fine
that people should be willing to give their lives for an idea--that they should be capable
of being inspired by a vision. Humanity has at least advanced as far as that.

I suppose patriotism, or love of country--when it comes to its full realization, as in the
case of invasion by an enemy, is the most powerful and tremendous of such ideals, sweeping
everything before it. It represents something ingrained in the blood. In that case all the
other motives for fighting--economic or what not--disappear and are swallowed up. Material
life and social conditions under a German government might externally be as comfortable and
prosperous as under our own, but for most of us something in the soul would wither and sicken
at the thought.

Anyhow, whatever the motives may be which urge individuals into war--whether sheer necessity
or patriotism, or the prospect of wages or distinction, or the love of adventure--a nation
or a people in order to fight must have a "cause" to fight for, something which its public
opinion, its leaders, and its Press can appropriate--some phrase which it can inscribe on its
shield: be it "Country" or "God" or "Freedom from Tyranny," or "Culture versus Barbarism."
It must have some such cry, else obviously it could not fight with any whole-heartedness or
any force.

The thing is a psychological necessity. Every one, when he gets into a quarrel, justifies himself
and accuses the other party. He puts his own conduct in an ideal light, and the conduct of
his opponent in the reverse! Doubtless if we were all angels and could impartially enter into
all the origins of the quarrel, we should not fight, because to "understand" would be to "forgive";
but as we have not reached that stage, and as we cannot even explain why we are quarrelling--the
matter being so complex--we are fain to adopt a phrase and fight on the strength of that. It
is useless to call this hypocrisy. It is a psychological necessity. It is the same necessity
which makes a mistress dismiss her maid on the score of a broken teapot, though really she
has no end of secret grievances against her; or which makes the man of science condense the
endless complexity of certain physical phenomena into a neat but lying formula which he calls
a Law of Nature. He could not possibly give all the real facts, and so he uses a phrase.

In war, therefore, each nation adopts a motto as its reason for fighting. Sometimes the two
opposing nations both adopt the same motto I England and Germany both inscribe on their banners:
"Culture versus Barbarism." Each believes in its own good faith, and each accuses the other
of hypocrisy.

In a sense this is all right, and could not be better. It does not so much matter which is
really the most cultured nation, England or Germany, as that each should really believe that
it is fighting in the cause of Culture. Then, so fighting for what it knows to be a good cause,
the wounds and death endured and the national losses and depletion are not such sad and dreadful
things as they at first appear. They liberate the soul of the individual; they liberate the
soul of the nation. They are sacrifices made for an ideal; and (provided they are truly such)
the God within is well-pleased and comes one step nearer to his incarnation. Whatever inner
thing you make sacrifices for, the same will in time appear visibly in your life--blessing
or cursing you. Therefore, beware I and take good care as to what that inner thing really is.

Such is the meaning of the use of a phrase or "battle-cry"; but we have, indeed, to be on our
guard against how we use it. It can so easily become a piece of cant or hypocrisy. It can so
easily be engineered by ruling cliques and classes for their own purposes--to persuade and
compel the people to fight their battles. The politicians get us (for reasons which they do
not explain) into a nice little entanglement --perhaps with some tribe of savages, perhaps
with a great European Power; and before the nation knows where it is it finds itself committed
to a campaign which may develop and become a serious war. Then there is no alternative but
for Ministers to repair to a certain Cabinet where the well-dried formulae they need are kept
hanging, and select one for their use. It may be "Women and Children," or it may be "Immoral
Savages," or it may be "Empire," or it may be "Our Word of Honour." Having selected the right
one, and duly displayed and advertised it, they have little difficulty in making the nation
rise to the bait, and fight whatever battles they desire.

Since the early beginnings of the human race we can perceive the same processes in operation.
We can almost guess the grade of advancement reached among primitive tribes by simply taking
note of their totems. These were emblems of the things which held the mind of the tribe, as
admirable or terrible, with which it was proud to identify itself--the fox, for instance, or
the bear, the kangaroo, or the eagle. To be worthy of such ideals men fought. Later, every
little people, every knightly, family, every group of adventurers, adopted a device for its
shield, a motto for its flag, a figure of some kind, human, or more often animal. Even the
modern nations have not got much farther; and we can judge of their stage of advancement by
the beasts of prey they, flaunt on their banners or the deep-throat curses which resound in
their national anthems.

But surely the time has now come--even with this world-war--when the great heart of the peoples
will wake up to the savagery and the folly perpetrated in their names. The people, who, although
they enjoy a "scrap" now and then, are essentially peaceful, essentially friendly, all the
world over; who in the intervals of slaughter offer cigarettes to their foes, and tenderly
dress their enemies' wounds; whose worst and age-long sin it is that they allow themselves
so easily to be dominated and led by, ambitious and greedy schemers--surely it is time that
they should wake up and throw off these sham governments--these governments that are three-quarters
class-scheming and fraud and only one-quarter genuine expressions of public spirit--and declare
the heart of solidarity that is within them.

The leaders and high priests of the world have used the name of Christianity to bless their
own nefarious works with, till the soul is sick at the very sound of the word; but surely the
time has come when the peoples themselves out of their own heart will proclaim the advent of
the Son of Man--conscious of it, indeed, as a great light of brotherhood shining within them,
even amid the clouds of race-enmity and ignorance, and will deny once for all the gospel of
world-empire and conquest which has so long been foisted on them for insidiously selfish ends.

An empire based on brotherhood--a holy human empire of the World, including all races and colours
in a common unity and equality--yes! But these shoddy empires based on militarism and commercialism,
and built up in order to secure the unclean ascendancy of two outworn and effete classes over
the rest of mankind--a thousand times no! That dispensation, thank Heaven! is past. "These
fatuous empires with their parade of power and their absolute lack of any real policy--this
British Lion, this Russian Bear, these German, French, and American Eagles--these birds and
beasts of prey--with their barbaric notions of Greed and War, their impossible armaments, and
their swift financial ruin impending--will fall and be rent asunder. The hollow masks of them
will perish. And the sooner the better. But underneath surely there will be rejoicing, for
it will be found that so after all the real peoples of the earth have come one degree nearer
together--yes, one degree nearer together."

FOOTNOTES:

[22] In Servia, for instance, which many folk doubtless regard as a benighted country, more
than four-fifths of the people are peasant farmers and cultivate lands belonging to their own
families. "These holdings cannot be sold or mortgaged entire; the law forbids the alienation
for debt of a peasant's cottage, his garden or courtyard, his plough, the last few acres of
his land, and the cattle necessary for working his farm." [Encycl. Brit.] In 1910 there were
altogether five hundred agricultural co-operative societies in Servia.

IX

CONSCRIPTION

December, 1914.

While protesting, as I have already done, against forced military service, it must still be
admitted that the argument in favour of it retains a certain validity: to the extent, namely,
that every one owes a duty of some kind to his own people, that it is mean to accept all the
advantages of citizenship--security, protection, settled conditions of life, and so forth--and
still to refuse to make sacrifice for one's country in a time of distress or danger. It is
difficult of course for any one to trace all the threads and fibres which have worked themselves
into his life from his own homeland--as it is difficult for a child to trace all the qualities
of blood that it owes to its mother; but there they are, and though some of these native inheritances
and conditions may not really be to a man's liking, yet he can hardly refuse to acknowledge
them, or to confess the debt of gratitude that he owes to the land of his birth.

Granting all this, however, most fully, there still remains a long stretch from this admission
to that of forced military service. The drawbacks to this latter are many. In the first place
compulsion anyhow is bad. A voluntary citizen army may be all right; but to compel a man to
fight, whether he will or not--in violation, perhaps, of his conscience, of his instinct, of
his temperament--is an inexcusable outrage on his rights as a human being. In the second place
it is gross folly; for a man who fights devoid of freewill and against his conscience, against
his temperament, cannot possibly make a good fighter. An army of such recusants, however large,
would be useless; and even a few mixed with the others do, as a matter of fact, greatly lower
the efficiency of the whole force associated with them. In the third place compulsion means
compulsion by a Government, and Government, at any rate to-day, means class-rule. Forced military
service means service under and subjection to a Class. That means Wars carried on abroad to
serve the interests, often iniquitous enough, of the Few; and military operations entered into
at home to suppress popular discontent or to confirm class-power. To none of these things could
any high-minded man of democratic temper consent. There are other drawbacks, but these will
do to begin with.

On the other hand, if we reject enforced militarism are we to throw overboard the idea of "national
service" altogether?

I think not. The way out is fairly clear and obvious. Let it be understood that there is such
a thing as national or public service, to which (within the limits of individual conscience
and capacity) every one is bound to respond. Let it be understood that at a certain age, say
from sixteen to eighteen (but the period would no doubt be a movable one) every one, boy or
girl, rich or poor, shall go through a course of training fitting him or her for healthy and
effective citizenship. This would include first of all bodily exercises and drill (needed by
almost all, but especially in the present day by town workers), all sorts of scouting-work,
familiarity with Nature, camp and outdoor life; then all kinds of elementary and necessary
trades, like agriculture in some form or other, metal-work, wood-work, cloth-work, tailoring,
bootmaking; then such things as rifle-shooting, ambulance-work, nursing, cookery, and so on.
Let it be understood that every one, male or female, rich or poor, learned or ignorant, is
expected to qualify--not in the whole programme, but first of all and as far as humanly possible
in the primary condition of physical health and development, and then after that in some one,
at any rate, of the above-mentioned or similar trades--so that in case of general need or distress
he can do something of use. That would at least be an approach to a valuable and reasonable
institution.

As things are it is appalling to think of the abject futility and uselessness of vast classes
in all the modern nations of to-day,--but perhaps especially in our own nation. Think of the
populations of our drawing-rooms, of our well-to-do clubs, of our universities, of our commercial
and professional offices, whose occupations, whatever they are, are entirely remote from the
direct needs and meanings of life; or again of the vast masses who inhabit the mean streets
of our great towns, ignorant, ill-grown, unskilled, and in a chronic state of most precarious
and uncertain employment. What would these populations do in any case of national crisis--say
in a case of serious war or famine or huge bankruptcy of trade or multitudinous invasion by
Chinese or Japanese, or of total collapse of credit and industry? With a few brilliant exceptions
they would collapse too. They could not feed themselves, clothe themselves, or defend themselves;
they could not build shelters from the storm, or make tools or weapons of any kind for their
own use; they would be unable to nurse each other in illness or cook for each other in health.
A tribe of Arabs or a commando of Boer farmers would be far more competent than they.

But the said deficiency, which would be painfully illustrated by a serious crisis, is there
equally in ordinary humdrum times of peace. The crippled and idiotic life which would bring
disaster then is undermining our very existence now. Is it not time that a sensible nation
should look to it that every one of its members, when adult, should at least be healthy, well-fed,
and well-grown, and that each should not only be decently developed in himself or herself,
but should be capable of bearing a useful part of some kind in the life of the nation? Is it
not time that the nation should place first of all on its programme the creation of capable
and healthy citizens? Can a nation be really effective, really strong, really secure, without
this? I do not seem to doubt a large willingness among our people to-day for mutual service
and helpfulness--I believe a vast number of our young women of the well-to-do type are at this
moment deeply regretting their inability to do anything except knit superfluous mufflers--but
was there ever in the history of the world such huge, such wide-flooding incompetence? The
willingness of the well-to-do classes may be judged from their readiness to come forward with
subscriptions, their incompetence from the fact that they have nothing else to offer: that
is, that all they can offer is to set some one else (by means of their money) to do useful
work in their place. They cannot themselves nurse wounded soldiers, or make boots for them,
or build huts or weave blankets; they cannot help in housing or building schemes, or in schemes
for the reclaiming and cultivation of waste lands; they cannot grow corn or bake bread or cook
simple meals for the assistance of the indigent or the aged or the feeble, because they understand
none of these things; but they can pay some one else to do them--that is, they can divert some
of the money, which they have already taken from the workers, to setting the latter toiling
again! But what use would that be on the day when our monetary system broke down--as it nearly
did at the commencement of this war? What use would it be on some critical day when a hostile
invasion called every competent man and woman to do the work of defence absolutely necessary
at the moment? What use would it be in the hour when complete commercial dislocation caused
downright famine? Who would look at offers of money then? Could the nation Carry this vast
mass of incompetents and idlers on its back then; and can it reasonably be expected to do so now?

A terrible and serious crisis, as I have already said, awaits us--even when the War is over--a
crisis probably worse than that which we are passing through now. We have to remember the debts
that are being piled up. If the nations are staggering along now under the enormous load of
idlers and parasites living on interest, how will it be then? Unless we can reorganize our
Western societies on a real foundation of actual life, of practical capacity, of honest and
square living, and of mutual help instead of mutual robbery, they will infallibly collapse,
or pass into strange and alien hands. Now is the critical moment when with the enormous powers
of production which we wield it may be possible to make a new start, and base the social life
of the future on a generous recognition of the fellowship of all. How many times have the civilizations
of the past, ignoring this salvation, gone down into the gulf! Can we find a better hope for
our civilization to-day?

It is clear, I think, that any nation that wants to stand the shock of events in the future,
and to hold its own in the vast flux of racial and political changes which is coming on the
world, will have to found its life, not on theories and views, or on the shifting sands of
literature and fashion, but on the solid rock of the real material capability of its citizens,
and on their willingness, their readiness to help each other--their ingrained instinct of mutual
service. A conscript army, forced upon us by a government and becoming inevitably a tool for
the use of a governing class, we do not want and we will not have; but a nation of capable
men and women, who know what life is and are prepared to meet it at all points--who will in
many cases make a free gift of their capital and land for such purposes as I have just outlined--we
must have. Personally I would not even here--though the need is a crying one--advocate downright
compulsion; but I would make these things a part of the recognized system of education, with
appropriate regulations and the strongest recommendations and inducements to every individual
to fall in and co-operate with them. Thus in time an urgent public opinion might be formed
which would brand as disgraceful the conduct of any person who refused to qualify himself for
useful service, or who, when qualified, deliberately refused to respond to the call for such
service, if needed. Under such conditions the question of military defence would solve itself.
Thousands and thousands of men would of their own free choice at an early age and during a
certain period qualify themselves in military matters; other thousands, men and women, would
qualify in nursing or ambulance work; other millions, again, would be prepared to aid in transport
work, or in the production of food, clothing, shelter, and the thousand and one necessaries
of life. No one would be called upon to do work which he had not chosen, no one would be forced
to take up an activity which was hateful to him, yet all would feel that what they could do
and did do would be helpful to the other ranks and ranges, and would be solidaire with the
rest of the nation. Such a nation would be sane and prosperous in time of peace, and absolutely
safe and impregnable in the hour of danger.

X

HOW SHALL THE PLAGUE BE STAYED?

Christmas, 1914.

People ask what new arrangements of diplomacy or revivals of Christianity--what alliances,
ententes, leagues of peace, Hague tribunals, regulation of armaments, weeks of prayer, or tons
of Christmas puddings sent into the enemies' camps--will finally scotch this pestilence of
war. And there is no answer, because the answer is too close at hand for us to see it.

Nothing but the general abandonment of the system of living on the labour of others will avail.
There is no other way. This, whether as between individuals or as between nations, is--and
has been since the beginning of the world--the root-cause of war. Early and primitive wars
were for this--to raid crops and cattle, to carry off slaves on whose toil the conquerors could
subsist; and the latest wars are the same. To acquire rubber concessions, gold-mines, diamond-mines,
where coloured labour may be exploited to its bitterest extreme; to secure colonies and outlying
lands, where giant capitalist enterprises (with either white or coloured labour) may make huge
dividends out of the raising of minerals and other industrial products; to crush any other
Power which stands in the way of these greedy and inhuman ambitions--such are the objects of
wars to-day. And we do not see the cause of the sore because it is so near to us, because it
is in our blood. The whole private life of the commercial and capitalist classes (who stand
as the representatives of the nations to-day) is founded on the same principle. As individuals
our one object is to find some worker or group of workers whose labour value we can appropriate.
Look at the endless columns of stock and share quotations in the daily papers, and consider
the armies of those who scan these lists over their breakfast-tables with the one view of finding
some-where an industrial concern whose slave-driven toilers will yield the shareholder 5, 6,
7, 8, 10, 12 per cent, on his capital. Undisguised and shameless parasitism is the order, or
disorder, of our days. The rapacity of beasts of prey is in our social life but thinly veiled--thinly
veiled indeed by a wash of "Christian" sentiment and by a network of philanthropic institutions
for the supposed benefit of the very victims whom we have robbed.

Is it any wonder that this principle of internecine warfare and rapacity which rules in our
midst, this vulgar greed, which loads people's bodies with jewels and furs and their tables
with costly food, regardless of those from whom these comforts are snatched, should eventuate
ultimately in rapacity and violence on the vast stage of the drama of nations, and in red letters
of war and conflict written across the continents? It is no good, with a pious snuffle, to
say we are out to put down warfare and militarism, and all the time to encourage in our own
lives, and in our Church and Empire Leagues and other institutions, the most sordid and selfish
commercialism--which itself is in essence a warfare, only a warfare of a far meaner and more
cowardly kind than that which is signalized by the shock of troops or the rage of rifles and
cannon.

No, there is no other way; and only by the general abandonment of our present commercial and
capitalist system will the plague of war be stayed.[23]

FOOTNOTES:

[23] When these hundreds and hundreds of thousands of men return home after the war is over,
do we expect them to go meekly back to the idiotic slavery of dingy offices and dirty workshops?
If we do I trust that we shall be disappointed. These men who have fought so nobly for their
land, and who have tasted, even under the most trying conditions, something of the largeness
and gladness of a free open-air life, will, I hope, refuse to knuckle down again to the old
commercialism. Now at last arises the opportunity for our outworn Civilization to make a fresh
start. Now comes the chance to establish great self-supporting Colonies in our own countrysides
and co-operative concerns where real Goods may be manufactured and Agriculture carried on in
free and glad and healthy industry.

XI

COMMERCIAL PROSPERITY THE PROSPERITY OF A CLASS

The economics of the statement that "commercial prosperity means little more than the prosperity
of a class"[24] may be roughly indicated by the following considerations: International trade
means division of labour among the nations. There is certainly a gain in such division, a margin
of advantage in production; and that gain, that margin, is secured by the trading class. That
is all.

Let us take an example, and to simplify the problem let us leave out of account those exotic
products--like tea or rubber or raw cotton--which can only be produced in one of the exchanging
countries. Let us take the case of Germany and England, both producing cutlery and both producing
cloth. There is no reason why each country should not produce both articles exclusively for
its own use; and as a matter of fact for a long time they did so. But presently it was found
that the cost of production of certain kinds of cutlery was less in Germany, and the cost of
production of certain kinds of cloth less in England. Merchants and dealers came in and effected
the exchange, and so an intertrade has sprung up. The effect of this on the workers in England
is simply to transfer a certain amount of employment from the cutlery trade to the cloth trade,
and on the workers in Germany to transfer an equal amount from the cloth trade to the cutlery
trade. This may mean dislocation of industry; but the actual number of persons employed or
of wages received in both countries may in such a case remain just the same as before. There
is nothing in the mere fact of exchange to alter those figures. There is, however, a gain,
there is a marginal advantage, in the exchange; and that is collared by the merchants and dealers.
It is, in fact, in order to secure this margin that the merchant class arises. This is, of
course, a very simple and elementary statement of the problem, and the exceptions to it or
modifications of it may be supplied by the reader. But in the main it embodies the very obvious
truth that trade is created for the advantage of the trader (who often also in modern times
is the manufacturer himself). What advantages may here and there leak through to the public
or to the employee are small and, so to speak, accidental. The mere fact of exchange in itself
forms no index of general prosperity. Yet it is often assumed that it does. If, for instance,
it should happen that the whole production of cutlery, as between Germany and England, were
secured by Germany, and the whole production of cloth were secured by England, so that the
whole of these products on each side had to be exchanged, then doubtless there would be great
jubilation--talk of the immense growth of oversea trade in both countries, the wonderful increase
of exports and imports, the great prosperity, and so forth; but really and obviously it would
only mean the jubilation and the prosperity of the merchants, the brokers, the railway and
shipping companies of both lands. There would be an increase in their riches (and an increase
in the number of their employees). It would mean more merchant palaces in Park Lane, bigger
dividends on the shares of transport companies; but after that the general position of the
manual workers in both trades, the numbers employed, and their rates of wages would be much
as before. Prices also, as regards the general Public, would be but little altered. It is only
because this great trading, manufacturing, and commercial class has amassed such enormous wealth
and influence, and is able to command the Press, and social position, and votes and representation
on public bodies and in both Houses of Parliament, that it succeeds in impressing the nation
generally with the idea that its welfare is the welfare of the whole people, and its prosperity
the advantage of every citizen. And it is in this very fact that its great moral and social
danger to the community lies.

It must not be thought (but I believe I have said this before) that in making out that the
commercial classes are largely to blame for modern wars I mean to say that the present war,
and many previous ones, have been directly instigated by commercial folk. It is rather that
the atmosphere of commercial competition and rivalry automatically leads up to military rivalries
and collisions, which often at the last moment (though not always) turn out contrary to the
wishes of the commercial people themselves. Also I would repeat that it is not Commerce but
the class interest that is to blame. Commerce and exchange, as we know in a thousand ways,
have the effect of drawing peoples together, giving them common interests, acquaintance, and
understanding of each other, and so making for peace. The great jubilation during the latter
half of the nineteenth century--from 1851 onwards--over world-wide trade and Industrial Exhibitions,
as the heralds of the world's peace and amity--a jubilation voiced in Tennyson's earlier Locksley
Hall--was to a certain extent justified. There is no doubt that the nations have been drawn
together by intertrading and learned to know each other. Bonds, commercial and personal, have
grown up between them, and are growing up, which must inevitably make wars more difficult in
the future and less desirable. And if it had been possible to carry on this intertrade in a
spirit of real friendliness and without grasping or greed the result to-day would be incalculably
great. But, unfortunately, this latter element came in to an extent quite unforeseen and blighted
the prophetic hopes. The second Locksley Hall was a wail of disillusionment. The growth of
large mercantile classes, intoxicated with wealth and pursuing their own interests apart from,
and indeed largely in opposition to, those of the mass-peoples, derailed the forward movement,
and led in some of the ways which I have indicated above to more of conflict between the nations
and less of peace.

Doubtless the growth of these mercantile classes has to a certain extent been inevitable; and
we must do them the justice to acknowledge that their enterprise and ingenuity (even set in
action for their own private advantage) have been of considerable benefit to the world, and
that their growth may represent a necessary stage in affairs. Still, we cannot help looking
forward to a time when, this stage having been completed, and commerce between nation and nation
having ceased to be handled for mere private profit and advantage, the parasitical power in
our midst which preys upon the Commonweal will disappear, the mercantile classes will become
organic with the Community, and one great and sinister source of wars will also cease.

FOOTNOTES:

[24] See p. 50 above.

XII

COLONIES AND SEAPORTS

There is another point of economics on which there seems to be some confusion of mind. If mere
extension of Trade is the thing sought for, it really does not matter much, in these days of
swift and international transport, whether the outlying lands with which the Trader deals or
the ports through which he deals are the property of his own nation or of some other nation.
The trade goes on all the same. England certainly has colonies all over the world; but with
her free trade and open ports it often happens that one of her colonies takes more German or
French goods of a certain class than English goods of the same class; or that it exports more
to Germany and France than it does to England. The bulk, for instance, of the produce of our
West African colonies goes, in normal times, to Germany. German or French trade does not suffer
in dealing with English colonies, though English trade may sometimes suffer in dealing with
French, German or other foreign colonies on account of the preferential duties they put on
in favour of their own goods. Except for these tariff-walls and bounty systems (which after
all, on account of their disturbing and crippling effect, seem to be gradually going out of
fashion) trade flows over the world, regardless of national barriers, and will continue so
to flow. It is all a question of relative efficiency and price. German goods, owing to their
cheapness and their accuracy of construction, have of late years been penetrating everywhere;
and to the German trader, as a pure matter of trade, it makes no difference whether he sells
to a foreign nation or a German colony.

It is the same with seaports. Holland is delighted to provide passage for Germany's exports
and imports, and probably does so at a minimum cost. The Berlin manufacturer or merchant would
be no better off, as far as trade conditions are concerned, if Germany instead of Holland held
the mouths of the Rhine. The same with a harbour like Salonika. Germany or Austria may covet
dreadfully its possession; and for strategic or political reasons they may be right, but for
pure trade purposes Salonika in the hands of the Greeks would probably (except for certain
initial expenses in the enlargement of dock accommodation) serve them as well as in their own
hands.

Of course there are other reasons which make nations desire colonies and ports. Such things
may be useful for offensive or defensive purposes against other nations; they feed a jealous
sense of importance and Imperialism; they provide outlets for population and access to lands
where the institutions and customs of the Homeland prevail; they supply financiers with a field
for the investment of capital under the protection of their own Governments; they favour the
development of a national carrying trade; and, above all, they supply plentiful official and
other posts and situations for the young men of the middle and commercial classes; but for
the mere extension and development of the nation's general trade and commerce it is doubtful
whether they have anything like the importance commonly credited to them.

XIII

WAR AND THE SEX IMPULSE

January, 1915.

It seems that War, like all greatest things--like Passion, Politics, Religion, and so forth--is
impossible to reckon up. It belongs to another plane of existence than our ordinary workaday
life, and breaks into the latter as violently and unreasonably, as a volcano into the cool
pastures where cows and sheep are grazing. No arguments, protests, proofs, or explanations
are of any avail; and those that are advanced are confused, contradictory, and unconvincing.
Just as people quarrel most violently over Politics and Religion, because, in fact, those are
the two subjects which no one really understands, so they quarrel in Warfare, not really knowing
why, but impelled by deep, inscrutable forces. Spectators even and neutrals, for the same reason,
take sides and range themselves bitterly, if only in argument, against each other.

But Logic and Morals are of no use on these occasions. They are too thin. They are only threads
in a vast fabric. You extract a single thread from the weaving of a carpet, and note its colour
and its concatenations, but that gives you no faintest idea of the pattern of the carpet; and
then you extract another, and another, but you are no nearer the design. Logic and morals are
similar threads in the great web of life. You may follow them in various directions, but without
effective result. Life is so much greater than either; and War is a volcanic manifestation
of Life which gives them little or no heed.

There is a madness of nations, as well as of individual people. Every one who has paid attention
to the fluctuations of popular sentiment knows how strange, how unaccountable, these are. They
seem to suggest the coming to the surface, from time to time, of hidden waves--groundswells
of some deep ocean. The temper, the temperament, the character, the policy of a whole nation
will change, and it is difficult to see why. Sometimes a passion, a fury, a veritable mania,
quite unlike its ordinary self, will seize it. There is a madness of peoples, which causes
them for a while to hate each other with bitter hatred, to fight furiously and wound and injure
each other; and then lo! a little while more and they are shaking hands and embracing and swearing
eternal friendship! What does it all mean?

It is all as mad and unreasonable as Love is--and that is saying a good deal! In love, too,
people desire to hurt each other; they do not hesitate to wound one another--wounding hearts,
wounding bodies even, and hating themselves even while they act so. What does it all mean?
Are they trying the one to reach the other at all costs--if not by embraces, at least by injuries--each
longing to make his or her personality felt, to impress himself or herself upon the other in
such wise as never again to be forgotten. Sometimes a man will stab the girl he loves, if he
cannot get at her any other way. Sex itself is a positive battle. Lust connects itself only
too frequently with violence and the spilling of blood.

Is it possible that something the same happens with whole nations and peoples--an actual lust
and passion of conflict, a mad intercourse and ravishment, a kind of generation in each other,
and exchange of life-essences, leaving the two peoples thereafter never more the same, but
each strangely fertilized towards the future? Is it this that explains the extraordinary ecstasy
which men experience on the battlefield, even amid all the horrors--an ecstasy so great that
it calls them again and again to return? "Have you noticed," says one of our War correspondents,[25]
"how many of our colonels fall? Do you know why? It is for five minutes of life. It is for
the joy of riding, when the charge sounds, at the crest of a wave of men."

Is it this that explains the curious fact that Wars--notwithstanding all their bitterness and
brutishness--do not infrequently lead to strange amalgamations and generations? The spreading
of the seeds of Greek culture over the then known world by Alexander's conquests, or the fertilizing
of Europe with the germs of republican and revolutionary ideas by the armies of Napoleon, or
the immense reaction on the mediaeval Christian nations caused by the Crusades, are commonplaces
of history; and who--to come to quite modern times--could have foreseen that the Boer War would
end in the present positive alliance between the Dutch and English in South Africa, or that
the Russo-Japanese conflict would so profoundly modify the ideas and outlook of the two peoples
concerned?

In making these remarks I do not for a moment say that the gains resulting from War are worth
the suffering caused by it, or that the gains are not worth the suffering. The whole subject
is too vast and obscure for one to venture to dogmatize on it. I only say that if we are to
find any order and law (as we must inevitably try to do) in these convulsions of peoples, these
tempests of human history, it is probably in the direction that I have indicated.

Of course we need not leave out of sight the ordinary theory and explanation, that wars are
simply a part of the general struggle for existence--culminating explosions of hatred and mutual
destruction between peoples who are competing with each other for the means of subsistence.
That there is something in this view one can hardly deny; and it is one which I have already
touched upon. Still, I cannot help thinking that there is something even deeper--something
that connects War with the amatory instinct; and that this probably is to be found in the direction
of a physiological impact and fusion between the two (or more) peoples concerned, which fertilizes
and regenerates them, and is perhaps as necessary in the life of Nations as the fusion of cells
is in the life of Protozoa, or the phenomena of sex in the evolution of Man.

And while the Nations fight, the little mortals who represent them have only the faintest idea
of what is really going on, of what the warfare means. They feel the sweep of immense passions;
ecstasies and horrors convulse and dislocate their minds; but they do not, cannot, understand.
And the dear creatures in the trenches and the firing-lines give their lives--equally beautiful,
equally justified, on both sides: fascinated, rapt, beyond and beside themselves, as foes hating
each other with a deadly hatred; seized with hideous, furious, nerve-racking passions; performing
heroic, magnificent deeds, suffering untold, indescribable wounds and pains, and lying finally
side by side (as not unfrequently happens) on the deserted battlefield, reconciled and redeemed
and clasping hands of amity even in death.

FOOTNOTES:

[25] H.M. Tomlinson, in the Daily News.

XIV

THE OVER-POPULATION SCARE

Some cheerful and rather innocent people insist that because of the over-population difficulty
wars must go on for ever. The population of the world, they say--or at any rate of the civilized
countries--is constantly increasing, and if war did not from time to time reduce the numbers
there would soon be a deadlock. They seem to think that the only way to solve the problem is
for the men to murder each other. This says nothing about the women, who, after all, are the
chief instruments of multiplication. It may also be pointed out that even the barbaric method
of slaughter is not practicable. Although wars of extermination may have now and then occurred
in the past among tribes and small peoples, such wars are not considered decent nowadays; and
the numbers killed in modern campaigns--horribly "scientific" and "efficient" as the methods
are--is such a small fraction of the population concerned as to have no appreciable result.
The population of Germany is about seventy millions, and I suppose the wildest anti-Teuton
could hardly hope that more than a million Germans will be actually killed in the present conflict--less
than 1-1/2 per cent.--a fraction which would probably soon be compensated by the increased
uxoriousness of the returning troops.

No, War is no solution for the over-population question. If that question is a difficulty,
other means must be employed. We ask therefore: (1) Is it a serious difficulty? (2) If so,
what is the remedy?

That over-population is in certain localities a serious difficulty few would deny. China, with
her four hundred millions, is probably over-populated; that is, with her present resources
in production the population presses against the margin of subsistence and can only just maintain
itself. There is evidence to show that in the past the natives of some of the Pacific islands,
isolated in the great ocean and unable to migrate to other lands, have suffered from the same
trouble. Britain is often said to be over-populated; but here quite other considerations come
in. Though it might be pleasant for many reasons to have more land at our immediate command,
we cannot fairly say that our population presses against the margin of subsistence, for the
simple reason that with our immense powers of industrial production and the enormous wealth
here yearly obtained the total, if evenly distributed (anything like as well, for instance,
as in China), would yield to every man, woman, and child in the United Kingdom an ample affluence.[26]
The appearance here of over-population arises from the fact that while the wage-earners actually
produce this mass of wealth, two-thirds of it are taken by the employers and employing classes.
Great portions, therefore, of the actual producers or producing classes are on the margin of
subsistence, while the rest of the wealth of the country is absorbed by those trading and dividend-consuming
classes of whom I have spoken more than once in previous pages. There is over-population certainly,
but it is an over-population (as any one may see who walks through the West End of London or
the corresponding quarters of any of our large towns) of idlers and futile people, who are
a burden to the nation. With our extraordinary industrial system--or want of system--it commonly
happens that the abundance of ill-paid or unemployed workers at one end of the social scale,
by reducing the rates of wages and so increasing the rates of dividends, actually creates a
greater abundance of unemployed rich at the other end; but neither excess points in itself
to over-population --only to a diseased state of distribution. What we really ought to aim
at creating is a nation in which every one was capable of doing useful or beautiful work of
some kind or other and was gladly occupied in doing it. Such a nation would be truly healthy.
It would be powerful and productive beyond all our present dreams. But the Western nations
of to-day, with their huge burdens of unskilled, ill-grown poor and their huge burden of incompetent,
feeble rich--it is a wonder that they survive. They would not survive a decade or two if the
Chinese or the Japanese in their numbers were to come into personal and direct competition
with them.

If Britain is not really at present over-populated, the same is probably even more true of
Germany. For Germany, with a larger and more fertile area in proportion to her population,
is safer than we are in the matter of self-support. But again in Germany the outcry of over-population
has arisen, and has arisen from the same cause as here--namely, the rise of the commercial
system, the division of the nation into extremes of poverty and riches, and the consequent
appearance of excess population in both directions. And this diseased state of the nation has
led to a fever of "expansion" and has been (as already said) one of the chief causes of the
present war. As long as the modern nations are such fools as to conduct their industrial affairs
in the existing way they will not only be full of strife, disease, and discord in themselves,
but they will inevitably quarrel with their neighbours.

All this, however, does not prove that a genuine over-population difficulty may not occur even
now in localities, and possibly in some far future time over the whole earth. And it may be
just as well to consider these possibilities.

Dismissing War and Disease as solutions--as belonging to barbarous and ignorant ages of human
evolution--there remain, perhaps, three rational methods of dealing with the question: (1)
the organization and improvement of industrial production on existing lands so far as to allow
the support of a larger population; (2) the transport of excess populations to new and undeveloped
lands (colonization); (3) the limitation of families.

The first method hardly needs discussion here. Its importance is too obvious. It needs, however,
more public discussion in England than it has hitherto received. The second method--operating
at present only in a very casual and unsystematic way--ought, one would say, to be very systematically
considered and dealt with by the modern States. For a nation to plant out large bodies of colonists
on comparatively unoccupied lands, as in Africa or Australia or Canada, in a deliberate and
organized fashion, with every facility towards co-operation and success, and yet on the principle
of leaving, each colonial unit plenty of freedom and autonomy, would not be a very difficult
task, nor a very expensive one, considering the end in view. And in such a case there would
really be no adequate reason for jealousy between States having colonies in the neighbourhood
of each other. If Germany (or any other country) wishes to have a colony in East Africa or
West Africa, it is really ridiculous to go to war about such a matter. Any peaceful arrangement
would be less expensive; and, as a matter of fact, a flourishing German (or other) colony in
the neighbourhood of a British settlement would help to bring prosperity to the latter. The
two colonies would benefit each other. It is only unreasoning jealousy which prevents people
understanding this.

Finally, there is the third method, of the intentional limitation of families. Surely the time
has come when blind and unlimited propagation among civilized and self-respecting peoples must
come to an end. The old text "Blessed is he that hath his quiver full of them" has ceased to
have any use or application. Eugenic and healthy conditions of child-rearing and nurture demand
small families. The well-to-do and educated do already limit their families; and for the poorer
classes to breed and propagate indefinitely is only to play into the hands of the dividend-hunting
rich by increasing the supply of cheap labour, while at the same time the general standard
of the population becomes more and more degraded. It is indeed a curious question why, in the
Press and among the official classes, every effort to spread abroad the knowledge of how in
a healthy, humane, and eugenic way to limit the size of the family is discountenanced. Sometimes
one thinks that this is done partly in order to encourage that said pullulation of workers
which is so favourable to, the keeping down of wages; but, of course, ancient reasons of ignorance
and religious bias weigh also. In the United States the persecutions of Comstockery are worse
than here.

The aborigines of Australia are so ignorant that they do not even know that conception arises
from the meeting of the male and female elements. They think that certain bushes and trees
are haunted by the spirits of babies, which leap unawares into the bodies of passing women.
It can be imagined what evils and delusions spring from such a theory. We do not want to return
to such a period; and yet it would seem that many folk do not want to go forward from our present
condition, with all its evils and delusions, to something better and more intelligent.

If the nations haven't the sense to be able (if they wish) to limit their families--short of
resorting to such methods as War, Cannibalism, the spread of Disease, the exposure of Infants,
and the like--one can only conclude that they must go on fighting and preying upon each other
(industrially and militarily) till they gain the sense. Mere unbridled and irrational lust
may have led to wars of extermination in the past. Love and the sacrament of a true and intimate
union may come some day with the era of peace.

FOOTNOTES:

[26] Militating also against the idea of over-population is the fact that so much of our agricultural
land is obviously uncared for and neglected.

XV

THE FRIENDLY AND THE FIGHTING INSTINCTS

January, 1915.

Fighting is certainly a deeply ingrained instinct in the human race--the masculine portion.
In the long history of human development it has undoubtedly played an important part. It has
even (such is the cussedness and contrariety of Nature) helped greatly in the evolution of
love and social solidarity. There is no greater bond in early stages between the members of
a group or tribe than the consciousness that they have a common enemy.[27] It is also obviously
still a great pleasure to a very large proportion of our male populations--as, indeed, the
fact of its being the fulfilment of a deep instinct would lead us to expect. It does not follow,
however, from these remarks that we expect war in its crudest form to continue for ever. There
will come a term to this phase of evolution. Probably the impact and collision between nations--if
required for their impregnation and fecundity--will come about in some other way.

If fighting is an ingrained instinct, the sociable or friendly instinct is equally ingrained.
We may, indeed, suppose it roots deeper. In the midst of warfare maddest foes will turn and
embrace each other. In the tale of Cuchulain of Muirthemne[28] he (Cuchulain) and Ferdiad fought
for three days on end, yet at the close of each day kissed each other affectionately; and in
the present war there are hundreds of stories already in circulation of acts of grace and tenderness
between enemies, as well as the quaintest quips and jokes and demonstrations of sociability
between men in opposing trenches who "ought" to have been slaying each other. In the Russo-Japanese
War during the winter, when military movement was not easy, and the enemy lines in some cases
were very near each other, the men, Russians and Japanese, played games together as a convenient
and pleasant way of passing the time, and not unfrequently took to snowballing each other.

A friend of mine, who was in that war, told me the following story. The Japanese troops were
attacking one of the forts near Port Arthur with their usual desperate valour. They cut zig-zag
trenches up the hillside, and finally stormed and took a Russian trench close under the guns
of the fort. The Russians fled, leaving their dead and wounded behind. After the mêlée, when
night fell, five Japanese found themselves in that particular trench with seven Russians--all
pretty badly wounded--with many others of course dead. The riflemen in the fort were in such
a nervous state, that at the slightest movement in the trench they fired, regardless of whom
they might hit. The whole party remained quiet during the night and most of the next day. They
were suffering from wounds, and without food or water, but they dared not move; they managed,
however, to converse with each other a little--especially through the Japanese lieutenant,
who knew a little Russian. On the second night the fever for water became severe. One of the
less wounded Russians volunteered to go and fetch some. He raised himself from the ground,
stood up in the darkness, but was discerned from the fort, and shot. A second Russian did the
same and was shot. A Japanese did likewise. Then the rest lay, quiet again. Finally, the darkness
having increased and the thirst and the wounds being intolerable, the Japanese lieutenant,
who had been wounded in the legs and could not move about, said that if one of the remaining
Russians would take him on his back he would guide the whole party into a place of safety in
the Japanese lines. So they did. The Russian soldier crawled on his belly with the Japanese
officer lying on his back, and the others followed, keeping close to the ground. They reached
the Japanese quarters, and were immediately, looked after and cared for. A few days afterwards
the five Russians came on board the transport on which my friend was engineer. They were being
taken as prisoners to Japan; but the Japanese crew could not do enough for them in the way
of tea and cigarettes and dressing their wounds, and they made quite a jolly party all together
on deck. The Japanese officer was also on board, and he told my friend the story.

Gallantry towards the enemy has figured largely in the history of War--sometimes as an individual
impulse, sometimes as a recognized instruction. European records afford us plenty of examples.
The Chinese, always great sticklers for politeness, used to insist in early times that a warrior
should not take advantage of his enemy when the latter had emptied his quiver, but wait for
him to pick up his arrows before going on with the fight. And in one tale of old Japan, when
one Daimio was besieging another, the besieged party, having run short of ammunition, requested
a truce in order to fetch some more--which the besiegers courteously granted!

The British officer who the other day picked up a wounded German soldier and carried him across
into the German lines, acted in quite the same spirit. He saw that the man had been left accidentally
when the Germans were clearing away their wounded; and quite simply he walked forward with
the object of restoring him. But it cost him his life; for the Germans, not at first perceiving
his intention, fired and hit him in two or three places. Nevertheless he lifted the man and
succeeded in bearing him to the German trench. The firing of course ceased, and the German
colonel saluted and thanked the officer, and pinned a ribbon to his coat. He returned to the
British lines, but died shortly after of the wounds received.

"Ils sont superbes, ces braves!" said a French soldier in hospital to Mrs. Haden Guest, indicating
the German wounded also there. And a dying German whispered to her: "I would never have fought
against the French and English had I known how kind they were. I was told that I was only going
on manoeuvres!"[29]

The French are generous in the recognition of bravery. A small company rushed a Prussian battery
in the neighbourhood of the Aisne and put all the gunners out of action, except one who fought
gamely to the last and would not give in till he was fairly surrounded and made prisoner. "Tu
est chic, tu--tu est bien chic" shouted the pioupious with one accord, and shook him cordially
by the hand as they led him away. How preposterous do such stories as these make warfare appear!--and
others, such as the two opposing forces tacitly agreeing to fetch water at the evening hour
from an intervening stream without molestation on either side; or the two parties using an
old mill as a post-office, by means of which letters could pass between France and Germany
in defiance of all decent war-regulations! How they illustrate the absolutely instinctive and
necessary tendency of the natural man (notwithstanding occasional bouts of fury) to aid his
fellow and fall into some sort of understanding with him! Finally the fraternizations last
Christmas between the opposing lines in Northern France almost threatened at one time to dissolve
all the proprieties of official warfare. If they had spread a little farther and lasted a little
longer, who knows what might have happened? High politics might have been utterly confounded,
and the elaborate schemes of statesmen on both sides entirely frustrated. Headquarters had,
through the officers, to interfere and all such demonstrations of amity to be for the future
forbidden. Could anything more clearly show the beating of the great heart of Man beneath the
thickly overlying husks of class and class-government? When, oh! when indeed, will the real
human creature emerge from its age-long chrysalis?

FOOTNOTES:

[27] And even the hundred and one humane Associations of to-day derive a great part of their
enthusiasm and vitality from fighting each other!

[28] Put into English by Lady Gregory. (John Murray, 6s. net.)

[29] From T.P.'s Weekly, November 7, 1914.

XVI

NEVER AGAIN!

Like a great cry these words to-day rise from the lips of the nations--"Never Again!" Never
before certainly have such enormous masses of human beings been locked in deadly grip with
each other over the earth, and never before, equally certainly, has their warfare been so horrible
in its deliberate preparation, so hideous, so ghastly in its after-effects, as to-day. The
nations stand round paralysed with disgust and despair, almost unable to articulate; and when
they do find voice it is with the words above written.

How are we to give effect to the cry? Must we not call upon the Workers of all countries--those
who are the least responsible for the inception of wars, and yet who suffer most by them, who
bear the brunt of the wounds, the slaughter, the disease, and the misery which are a necessary
part of them--to rise up and forbid them for ever from the earth? Let us do so! For though
few may follow and join with us to-day, yet to-morrow and every day in the future, and every
year, as the mass-peoples come into their own, and to the knowledge of what they are and what
they desire to be, those numbers will increase, till the cry itself is no longer a mere cry
but an accomplished fact.

It is a hopeful sign that not only among bewildered onlookers and outsiders but among the soldiers
themselves (of the more civilized countries) this cry is being taken up. Who, indeed, should
know better than they what they are talking about? The same words are on the lips at this moment
of thousands and thousands of French and English and German soldiers,[30] and in no faint-hearted
or evasive sense, but with the conviction and indignation of experience. We may hope they will
not be forgotten this time when the war is over.

The truth is that not only was this particular war "bound to come," but (among the civilized
peoples) the refusal of war is also bound to come. Two great developments are leading to this
result. On the one hand, the soldiers themselves, the fighters, are as a class becoming infinitely
more sensitive, more intelligent, more capable of humane feeling, less stupidly "patriotic"
and prejudiced against their enemies than were the soldiers of a century ago--say, of the time
of Wellington; on the other hand, the horrors, the hideousness, the folly, and the waste of
war are infinitely greater. It is inevitable that these two contradictory movements, mounting
up on opposite sides, must at last clash. The rising conscience of Humanity must in the end
say to the War-fiend, "Get thee behind me, Satan!" Never before have there passed over the
fields of Europe armies so intelligent, so trained, so observant, so sensitive as those to-day
of Belgium, France, England, and Germany. Some day or other they will return to their homes;
but when they do it will be with a tale that will give to the Western world an understanding
of what war means, such as it never had before.

All the same, if the word is to be "Never Again!" it must come through the masses themselves
(from whom the fighters are mainly drawn); it must be through them that this consummation must
be realized. It must be through the banding together and determined and combined effort of
the Unions, local, national, and international, and through the weight of the workers' influence
in all their associations and in all countries. To put much reliance in this matter upon the
"classes" is rash; for though just now the latter are sentimentalizing freely over the subject--having
got into nearer touch with it than ever before--yet when all is settled down, and the day arrives
once more that their interests point to war, it is only too likely that they (or the majority
of them) will not hesitate to sacrifice the masses--unless, indeed, the power to do so has
already departed from them.

And it is no good for us to sentimentalize on the subject. We must not blink facts. And the
fact is that "it's a long way" to Never Again. The causes of War must be destroyed first; and,
as I have more than once tried to make clear, the causes ramify through our midst; they are
like the roots, pervading the body politic, of some fell disease whose outbreak on the surface
shocks and affrights us. To dislodge and extirpate these roots is a long business. But there
is this consolation about it--that it is a business which we can all of us begin at once, in
our own lives!

Probably wars will still for many a century continue, though less frequent we hope. And if
the people themselves want to fight, and must fight, who is to say them Nay? In such case we
need not be overmuch troubled. There are many things worse than fighting; and there are many
wounds and injuries which people inflict on each other worse than bodily wounds and injuries--only
they are not so plain to see. But I certainly would say--as indeed the peasant says in every
land--"Let those who begin the quarrel do the fighting"; and let those who have to do the fighting
and bear the brunt of it (including the women) decide whether there shall be fighting or not.
To leave the dread arbitrament of War in the hands of private groups and cliques who, for their
own ends and interests, are willing to see the widespread slaughter of their fellow-countrymen
and the ruin of innumerable homes is hateful beyond words.

FOOTNOTES:

[30] See "A War-Note for Democrats," by H.M. Tomlinson (English Review, December, 1914). "This
war was bound to come, and we've got to finish it proper. No more of this bloody rot for the
kids, an' chance it."

XVII

THE TREE OF LIFE

February, 1915.

Finally, and looking back on all we have said, and especially on the Christmas scenes and celebrations
between the trenches in this war and the many similar fraternizations of the rank and file
of opposing armies in former wars, one realizes the monstrosity and absurdity of the present
conflict--its anachronism and out-of-dateness in the existing age of human thought and feeling.
The whole European situation resembles a game of marbles played by schoolboys. It is not much
more dignified than that. Each boy tries on the quiet to appropriate some of the marbles out
of another boy's bag. From time to time, in consequence, furious scrimmages arise--generally
between two boys--the others looking' on and laughing, knowing well that they themselves are
guilty of the same tricks. Presently, in the fortunes of the game, one boy--a little more blundering
or a little less disguised than the others--lays himself open to the accusations of the whole
crew. They all fall upon him, and give him a good drubbing; and even some of them say they
are punishing him for his good! When shall we make an end, once for all, of this murderous
nonsense?

However our Tommy Atkinses have been worked up to fighting point by fears for the safety of
old England, or by indignation at atrocities actually observed or distantly reported; however
the German soldiers have been affected by similar fears and indignations, or the French the
same; however the political coil has been engineered (as engineered in such cases it always
is), and whatever inducements of pay or patriotism have been put in operation and sentiments
circulated by the Press--one thing remains perfectly certain: that left to themselves these
men would never have quarrelled, never have attacked each other. One thing is perfectly certain:
that such a war as the present is the result of the activity of governing cliques and classes
in the various nations, acting through what are called "Diplomatic" channels, for the most
part in secret and unbeknown to their respective mass-peoples, and for motives best known to
themselves.

One would not venture to say that all wars are so engineered, for there certainly are occasionally
wars which are the spontaneous expression of two nations' natural hostility and hatred; but
these are rare, very rare, and the war in which we are concerned at present is certainly not
one of them. Also one would not venture to say that though in the present affair the actuating
motives have been of class origin, and have been worked through secret channels, the motives
so put in action have all been base and mean. That would be going too far. Some of the motives
may have been high-minded and generous, some may have been mean, and others may have been mean
and yet unconsciously so. But certainly when one looks at the conditions of public and political
life, and the arrangements and concatenations by which influence there is exerted and secured,
and sees (as one must) the pretty bad corruption which pervades the various parties in all
the modern States--the commercial briberies, the lies of the Press, the poses and prevarications
of Diplomats and Ministers--one cannot but realize the great probability that the private advantage
of individuals or classes has been (in the present case) a prevailing instigation. The fact
that in Britain two influential and honourable Cabinet Ministers resigned at once on the declaration
of war (a fact upon which the Press has been curiously silent) cannot but "give one to think."
One cannot but realize that the fighting men in all these nations are the pawns and counters
of a game which is being played for the benefit--or supposed benefit--of certain classes; that
public opinion is a huge millstream which has to be engineered; that the Press is a channel
for its direction, and Money the secret power which commands the situation.

The fact is sad, but it must be faced. And the facing of it leads inevitably to the question,
"How, then, can Healing ever come?" If (it will be said) the origin of wars is in the diseased
condition of the nations, what prospect is there of their ever ceasing? And one sees at once
that the prospect is not immediate. One sees at once that Peace Societies and Nobel Prizes
and Hague Tribunals and reforms of the Diplomatic Service and democratic control of Foreign
Secretaries and Quaker and Tolstoyan preachments--though all these things may be good in their
way--will never bring us swiftly to the realization of peace. The roots of the Tree of Life
lie deeper.

We have seen it a dozen times in the foregoing pages. Only when the nations cease to be diseased
in themselves will they cease fighting with each other. And the disease of the modern nations
is the disease of disunity--not, as I have already said, the mere existence of variety of occupation
and habit, for that is perfectly natural and healthy, but the disease by which one class preys
upon another and upon the nation--the disease of parasitism and selfish domination. The health
of a people consists in that people's real unity, the organic life by which each section contributes
freely and generously to the welfare of the whole, identifies itself with that welfare, and
holds it a dishonour to snatch for itself the life which should belong to all. A nation which
realized that kind of life would be powerful and healthy beyond words; it would not only be
splendidly glad and prosperous and unassailable in itself, but it would inevitably infect all
other nations with whom it had dealings with the same principle. Having the Tree of Life well
rooted within its own garden, its leaves and fruit and all its acts and expressions would be
for the healing of the peoples around. But a nation divided against itself by parasitic and
self-exalting cliques and sections could never stand. It could never be healthy. No armaments
nor ingenuity of science and organization could save it, and even though the form of its institutions
were democratic, if the reality of Democracy were not there, its peace crusades and prizes
and sentimental Conferences and Christianities would be of little avail.

At this juncture, then, all over Europe, when the classes are failing us and by their underhand
machinations continually embroiling one nation with another, it is above all necessary that
the mass-peoples should move and insist upon the representation of their great unitary and
communal life and interests. It is high time that they should open their eyes and see with
clear vision what is going on over their heads, and more than high time that they should refuse
to take part in the Quarrels of those who (professionally) live upon their labour. It is indeed
astonishing that the awakening has been so long in coming; but surely it cannot be greatly
delayed now. Underneath all the ambitions of certain individuals and groups; underneath all
the greed and chicanery of others; underneath the widespread ignorance, mother of prejudice,
which sunders folk of different race or colour-deep down the human heart beats practically
the same in all lands, drawing us little mortals together.

Strangely enough--and yet not strangely--it beats strongest and clearest often in the simplest,
the least sophisticated. Those who live nearest the truth of their own hearts are nearest to
the hearts of others. Those who have known the realities of the world, and what Life is close
to the earth--they are the same in all lands--they have at least the key to the understanding
of each other. The old needs of life, its destinies and fatalities, its sorrows and joys, its
exaltations and depressions --these are the same everywhere; and to the manual workers --the
peasant, the labourer, the sailor, the mechanic--the world-old trades, pursuits, crafts, and
callings with which they are so familiar supply a kind of freemasonry which ensures them even
among strangers a kindly welcome and an easy admittance. If you want to travel in foreign lands,
you will find that to be skilled in one or two manual trades is better than a high official
passport.

Among such people there is no natural hatred of each other. Despite all the foam and fury of
the Press over the present war, I doubt whether there is any really violent feeling of the
working masses on either side between England and Germany. There certainly is no great amount
in England, either among the country-folk or the town artisans and mechanics; and if there
be much in Germany (which is quite doubtful) it is fairly obviously due to the animus which
has been aroused and the virus which has been propagated by political and social schemers.

We have had enough of Hatred and Jealousy. For a century now commercial rivalry and competition,
the perfectionment of the engines of war, and the science of destruction have sufficiently
occupied the nations--with results only of disaster and distress and ruin to all concerned.
To-day surely another epoch opens before us--an epoch of intelligent helpfulness and fraternity,
an epoch even of the simplest common sense. We have rejoiced to tread and trample the other
peoples underfoot, to malign and traduce them, to single out and magnify their defects, to
boast ourselves over them. And acting thus we have but made the more enemies. Now surely comes
an era of recognition and understanding, and with it the glad assurance that we have friends
in all the ends of the earth.

We--and I speak of the European nations generally--have talked loudly of our own glory; but
have we welcomed and acclaimed the glory and beauty of the other peoples and races around us--among
whom it is our privilege to dwell? We have boasted to love each our own country, but have we
cared at all for the other countries too? Verily I suspect that it is because we have not truly
loved our own countries, but have betrayed them for private profit, that we have thought fit
to hate our neighbours and ill-use them for our profit too.

What a wonderful old globe this is, with its jewelled constellations of humanity! Alfred Russel
Wallace, in his Travels on the Amazon (1853, ch. xvii), says: "I do not remember a single circumstance
in my travels so striking and so new, or that so well fulfilled all previous expectation, as
my first view of the real uncivilized inhabitants of the river Uaupés.... I felt that I was
as much in the midst of something new and startling, as if I had been instantaneously transported
to a distant and unknown country."

Not long ago I was talking to a shrewd, vigorous old English lady who had spent some forty
years of her life among the Kafirs in South Africa and knew them intimately. She said (not
knowing anything about my feelings): "Ah! you British think a great deal about yourselves.
You think you are the finest race on earth; but I tell you the Kafirs are finer. They are splendid.
Whether for their physical attributes, or their mental, or for their qualities of soul, I sometimes
think they are the finest people in the world." Whether the old lady was right (and one has
heard others say much the same), or whether she was carried away by her enthusiasm, the fact
remains that here is a people capable of exciting such enthusiasm, and certainly capable of
exciting much admiration among all who know them well.

Read the accounts of the Polynesian peoples at an early period--before commerce and the missionaries
had come among them--as given in the pages of Captain Cook, of Herman Melville, or even as
adumbrated in their past life in the writings of R.L. Stevenson--what a picture of health and
gaiety and beauty! Surely never was there a more charming and happy folk--even if long-pig
did occasionally in their feasts alternate with wild-pig.

And yet how strange that the white man, with all his science and all his so-called Christianity,
has only come among these three peoples mentioned (and how many more?) to destroy and defile
them--to flog the mild and innocent native of the Amazons to death for greed of his rubber;
to rob the Kafir of his free wild lands and blast his life with drink and slavery in the diamond
mines; to degrade and exterminate the Pacific islanders with all the vices and diseases of
"civilization"!

Think of the Chinese--that extraordinary people coming down from the remotest ages of history,
with their habits and institutions apparently but little changed--so kindly, so "all there,"
so bent on making the best of this world. "At the first sight of these ugly, cheery, vigorous
people I loved them. Their gaiety, as of children, their friendliness, their profound humanity,
struck me from the first and remained with me to the last."[32] And the verdict of all who
know the people well--in the interior of the country of course--is the same. Think of the Japanese
with their slight and simple, but exceedingly artistic and exceedingly heroic type of civilization.

Or, again, of the East Indian peoples, so unfitted as a rule for making the best of this world,
so passive, dreamy, subtle, unpractical, and yet with their marvellous spiritual gift, their
intuition (also since the dawn of history) and conviction of another plane of being than that
in which we mostly move, and their occasional power of distinctly sensing that plane and acting
on its indications. Think of their ancient religious philosophy--their doctrine of world-unity--absolutely
foundational and inexpugnable, the corner-stone of all metaphysics, science, and politics,
and of the latest most modern democracy; and still realized and believed in in India as nowhere
else in the world.

Think of the gentle Buddhistic Burmese, the active, social Malays, the hard-featured, hard-lived
Thibetans and Mongolians. Think of the Arabian and Moorish and Berber races, who, once the
masters of the science and comforts of civilization, of their own accord (but in accordance
also with their religion) abandoned the worship of all these idols and returned to the Biblical
simplicity of four thousand years ago--having realized that they already possessed something
better, namely, the glory of the sky and the earth, the sun and the desert sands, and the freedom
of love and adventure. How strange, and yet how natural, that sundered only by a narrow strip
of sea they even now should look back upon all the laborious, feverish, and overcrowded wealth
of Europe and seeing the cost thereof should feel for it only contempt! For that, indeed, is
actually for the most part the case--though not of course without exceptions among certain
sections of the population.

Or again, the millions and millions of Great and Little Russian peasants. Big-framed, big-hearted,
patient, friendly, with a great natural gift for association and co-operation, peacefully minded
and profoundly religious; yet superstitious, and capable of rising at any moment en masse to
the call of a great crusade or "holy war"; it might seem that they hold all Western Europe
in the hollow of their hands. Indeed they constitute not only a hope and promise of deliverance
to our modern world, but also a considerable danger. All depends on how we dispose ourselves
towards them. Should the nations of Western Europe rouse their hatred by chicanery and mean
treatment the result might be fatal. If their flood once began to move, no battle array of
armaments would be of any use--any more than a revolver against a rising tide--the flood would
flow round and over us. But if on the other hand we could really reach the heart of this great
people, if we could treat them really generously and with understanding, we should create a
response there, and a recognition, which would remove all risk to ourselves, and possibly help
to free Russia from the great burden of political servitude and ignorance which has so long
oppressed her peasantry.

Or think of the Servians--that hospitable people, good lovers and good haters, with their ancient,
almost prehistoric, system of family communities surviving down to modern days, and blossoming
out in a perfect genius for co-operative agriculture and Raffeisen banks!

Or the Finns, the Swedes, the Norwegians, and the Danes (if I may class these together); what
a clear, clean-minded, healthy people are these, so direct in their touch on Nature and the
human instincts, so democratic, bold, and progressive in their social organizations--what a
privilege to have them as our near neighbours and relatives! Or the Germans, in many ways resembling
the last mentioned group, only richer and more varied in their culture and racial characteristics!
Or the Dutch, so well-based and broad-seated both in body and mind, with their ample bowels
of compassion and their well-equipped brains, so full of tenderness and of sturdy commonsense,
what a gift has been theirs to Europe, what a legacy of artistic treasure and of heroic record!
Or the Spanish with their beautiful and dignified women, or the French with their fine logical
and artistic sense, or the Hungarians, Greeks, and Italians!

Have we nothing to do but to prepare engines of death and of slaughter against all these peoples?
Is our main idea of relation to them one of domination and profit? Have we no use for them
but to gain their riches, and in exchange to lose our own souls? Or shall we, like the Prussians,
seek to "impose" our own standards of so-called culture on them, and trim their infinite variety
and grace to one sorry pattern? These are all in their diverse glory and beauty as leaves of
the one great Tree whose branches spread over the earth. Whoever understands this, and penetrating
to the great heart beneath, recognizes the same original life in them all, will possess the
secret of salvation; whatever nation first casts aside the filthy rags of its own self-righteousness
and the defiling and sordid garment of mercenary gain, and accepts the others frankly as its
brother and sister nations, all of one family--that nation will become the Healer and Redeemer
of the World.

It is interesting to find that, according to the Book of Revelation, the tree of which we have
been speaking grows with its roots "in the pure river of the water of Life, which proceeds
from the throne of God and the Lamb." What exactly the author of the book meant by this passage
has been much debated. It is clear that there is here a veiled allusion to the Zodiac--that
mysterious belt of constellations which runs like a river round the whole starry heavens, and
rises in the constellation of the Ram or He-lamb--but to debate that question now would be
unprofitable, even were one fully competent to do so. More to the point is it to see that this
remarkable simile has an inner sense applicable to mankind, and so far independent of any allusion
to the Zodiac. This Tree that is for the healing of the nations has its roots in the pure water
of Life which flows from the great Throne. We have seen in an early chapter where the roots
of Strife between the nations are to be sought for, and whence they draw their nourishment.
They are to be found in the very muddy waters of domination and selfishness and greed. But
the roots of the Tree of Healing are in the pure waters of Life. Right down below all the folly
and meanness which clouds men's souls flows the universal Life pure from its original source.
The longer you live, the more clearly and certainly you will perceive it. In the eyes of the
men and women around you you will perceive it, and in the eyes of the children--aye, and even
of the animals. Unclean, no doubt, will the surface be--muddied with meannesses and self-motives;
and among those classes and currents of people who chiefly delight to dwell in the midst of
such things (who dwell in the floating mire of malice and envy and self-assertion and avarice
and conceit and deceit and domination and other such refuse), the waters will be foul indeed;
but below these classes, among the simple, comparatively unselfconscious types of humanity
who everywhere represent the universal life (without, in a sense, being aware of it), and again,
above them, among those whose spirits have passed "in compassion and determination around the
whole earth and found only equals and lovers," the water flows pure and free. Heart and soul. "

Of entertainment served to all home and outside. It was a noisy function immediately down to Frasquito
are singing songs in funeral, and saying a thousand jokes applied him and the Benin, insensitive
to the outpourings of the vile villain, got into his car, leading the Andalusian gentleman
like a bundle of clothes, and ordered the driver to bite Imperial
Street, snuff taking care of the horse well.

It was not, as is easy to suppose, loose Dona Francisca surprise to see that you got in the house
apparently dying body, transported between Benin and a porter. Poor Lady had spent the afternoon
and evening in mortal anxiety, and saw a strange thing, believed to have turned the dream or direction.
But the naughty maid hastened to reassure saying that this was no corpse, and its shabby could
be inferred, but sick grave, D. himself Frasquito Ponte Delgado, born in Algeciras, who had
found on the street, and without going into further explanation of the unprecedented event, came
to comfort the Doña Paca troubled spirit with the betrothal took news that its tough new bag odd,
it adds up to attend to more urgent commitment, and breathing for
a few days.

- "Oh, you take my weight off of my soul - said Mrs.
raising hands -.

The God bless you. We're in a position to a charity, picking up this unfortunate ... See? God
in one time point and supports us and says it protects. The favor and obligation accompanying health.

- We must take things as they have ... wagging the thunder.

- And
where to put this poor scarecrow? - Doña Paca said to Frasquito feeling
that, although I was not unconscious, barely speak or move, lying
on the holy soil arrimadito to the wall.

"

And after marriage and Antonito Obdulia had been sold these beds, a dispute arose domestic installation,
Nina decided to propose to assemble your bed the little room in the
dining room to put it to the poor sick.

She would sleep on a mattress on the mat, and it would, and would if it were possible to boot
the wretched old nails death.

"But my soul Nina, have you thought through the load that we have caught up with ...? You who
can not, take me back, and said the other.

Do you think that we are ourselves to get us a protective one? ... But just tell me: Was D.
Romualdo blessed who ...?

- Yes, ma'am, "replied the old ...-- Rumaldo, that stunning was not prepared to lie.

- Blessed, blessed a thousand times sir!

- She ... Teresa Rabbit.

-
What, woman?

- I say ... But you are not aware of what I mean?

-
You said ... Perchance a hunter D. Romualdo?

- Hunter?

- As you
said do not know what a rabbit.

- He does not hunt, but he was given
... I do not know ... so many things ... partridge, rabbit, field
... Then this afternoon ...

- I, I said, 'Benin, to see how I put
this rabbit morning that brought me ...'.

- Asked if there were to
be in gazpacho or rice, were disputed, and as I said nothing and I
burst into tears, 'Benin, what do you have?

Benin, what's wrong ?...'.

In short, rabbit's foot took the trouble to tell him that I saw ...».

Doña Paca convinced no longer thought only Frasquito install, which
did not seem realized what was happening.

At last when he had gone to bed, recognized the widow of Juarez and
showing their gratitude with handshakes and warm sigh, said:

"This
child, this mother ... You are the spitting image of Montijo.

- What
does this man?

- Gives because all we seem a. ..

I do not know who ... the emperors of France ... Finally, quit.

- Am I in the palace in the Plaza del Angel? - Ponte said considering
the miserable alcove with missing eyes.

- Yes, sir ... Arrópese now;'re
very still to take the dream.

Then he will make a good broth ... and live. "

They left him alone, and began again Benina the street, eager to cover
the opening to creditors rude, that impertinent and shameless pressure
overwhelmed the two women.

God great pleasure of bringing them to the harsh hills that they had made more provisions, was
to the streets of Rue, and with her basket full of good food and the heart of hope, thinking freedom
from the shame of begging, at least for a couple of days, returned
home.

Methodical promptly went to work in the kitchen, accompanied by his
mistress, who was also smiling and joyful.

"You know what happened to me - told Benina - at the time you've
been away?

Well I was dormidita on the couch, and dreamed that two men came home grave clothes black. Were
D. Morquecho and D. Francisco José María Porcell, my countrymen,
who came to involved the death of D. Pedro Jose Garcia of the Antrines,
carnal uncle of my husband.

- Poor lord is dead! - Nina cried with
all my heart.

- And that D. Peter Joseph, who is one of the first
rich men of the Highlands ...

- But tell me, is what I dreamed account
or is it?

- Wait, woman.

These two gentlemen came, D. Francisco and D. José María, a physician, the another town clerk ... they
came to tell me that the Antrines Garcia, uncle flesh of my Antonio,
I was appointed probate ...

- Ya ...

- And ... the thing is clear
... as such had no direct succession, naming heirs ...

- Who?

-
Be quiet, woman ... It left half of his assets to my children Obdulia
and Antonito, and the other half to Frasquito Ponte.

What do you think?

- That the blessed Lord should make him a saint.

- They told D. Francisco and D. José María you were looking for days to let me know inheritance,
and wondering here and there, finally found out the address of this house ... Say by whom? by the
priest D. Romualdo, already proposed to the bishop, who told I also had picked Mr. de Ponte
... 'So - I said, laughing - that come to offer you our respect, my lady, kill two birds with one
stone. "

- But let's accounts: this is, as they say, dreamed.

- Sure: Have not you heard that I fell asleep on the couch?

... As these two gentlemen who were to visit, died thirty years ago,
when I was the girlfriend of Antonio ... just imagine ... and García
de los Antrines was very old then.

I have not heard from him ... Yes, all has been the work of a dream,
but so vividly that even I find that I am looking ... Te I tell it
to laugh ... no, it is laughable that dreams ...

- Dreams, dreams,
whatever they want - Nina said - are also from God, and who will know
what is true and what is false?

- Cabal ... Who tells you that behind
or below or above this world we see, there is no another world where
people live who have died?

... And who tells you that dying is nothing fashion and lifestyle? ...

- Below, underneath is all that - said the other meditatively -.

I make the dream case because it could happen, a comparison, that
those who come here go over there and bring us the remedy for our
ills.

Below ground there is another world, and the point is to know how
and when we can talk to the living Soterraña.

They have to know how badly we here, and we dream we see how well
you go over there ... I do not know if I explain ... say there is
no justice, and for the Haig, will dream whatever we please, and dreaming,
a guess, here we will bring justice.

"

Doña Paca replied with a string of sighs drawn from the depths of
his chest, and Benin was launched, with fever and tenacity of a fixed
idea, to think again about the wonderful spell.

Restless tinkering in the kitchen, my mind's eye, I saw only the pot of seven bujeros, laurel stick,
clothing, and prayer ... Démontrer of prayer! This really that was hard!

XXIII

Everything was fine the next morning: Don Frasquito improving hour
by hour, and the entendederas middle state clearly, Doña Paca happy,
well-stocked home vittles, that the next day and insured, so the poor
could Benina rest of his pitiful bid in San Sebastian.

But to be so necessary to sustain the comedy of their care at the home of church, went as usual, the
basket on his arm, ready to keep the morning and do something useful. Upon leaving his mistress
said: "I think we'll have to make a gift our D. Romualdo ... It should show that we are grateful
and well educated. Bring from me two bottles of Champagne a good brand to accompany them stew,
you do today, the rabbit.

- But she's crazy, lady?

Do you know what they cost two bottles of Champagne? We pawn for three months. You will always
be the same. For like both look good, is now so poor. And we will give when we drop the lottery,
because today is not going to look I who give one penny at a tenth
of those three.

- Well, well: go with God.

"

And it was the lady to talk to Frasquito, which was animated and talkative. One and one evoked
memories of land they were born Andalusian, raising families, people and events; you talk and
talk, Doña Francisca walked out the registration of his dream, but was saved well to tell the
citizen. "Tell me, Ponte: What has become of D. Pedro Jose Garcia of the Antrines?. " After
a painful espurgo in obscure folders of your memory, said Vial that
D. Peter had died the year of the Revolution.

"Go, go, and I thought he was still alive. Do you know who inherited their property?

- As his son Rafael, who has not wanted to marry.

And goes for old.

It could be that will remember us, your children from you and me, as it has closer relatives.

- Ay! do not doubt you, will remember ...-- Doña Paca said with great animation in his eyes and the
word -. If not agreed, would be a pig ... What I said D. Morquecho Francisco and D. José María
Porcell ...

- When?

- Makes ... I do not know how long.

Truth who have gone to a better life. But I think I am watching ... Were surrogates of Antrines
Garcia, is not it?

- Yes, ma'am. I also tried them a lot.

They were friends of my house and I have very present them in my
memory ... I think I am seeing with his old cut black coat ...

-
So, so.

- Its sole neckties, and those hats that looked like the
tower of Santa Maria ...».

Continued the conversation with this vague fluctuation between reality and imagination, and
therefore Benina up the street, down the street, and with a clear mind, calm the spirit by
possession of a rate not less than three dollars and a half, I thought that all of tracamundana
Almudena spell was simply deceived fools.

More likely to see success in the lottery, that is, more than say,
a work of blind chance, because who says that does not go through
the air, an angel or a demon invisible takes out the big ball, knowing
beforehand who owns the number?

Why things are so rare: for example, that is distributed the prize among many poor people who
came together to that end, making this a real, the other one peseta.

With such ideas came to think who would give a share modest, as one tenth acquire it seemed to
him many adventures. With his partner Petra Fourth and kilo, which proved fortunate in almost all
backgrounds, did not want bills, better be understood for this business
Polished mate begging in the parish, which had combinations of moves
that made lotteries in neighboring Burrero Obdulia; and to take her
in his house before she would go to ask, he quickened his pace towards
the Street Head, and gave background on the establishment of asses
milk.

In the stables of those peaceful beasts Pulido gave shelter to the
dairy honest, good people and humble.

A Burrera sister of tickets sold on the streets, and an uncle of Burrero, which had the same business
in the same street and house, years ago, the fat had been removed
and retired to his people where he bought land.

The crowd was perpetuated, as in the establishment, habit forming vicious, and the date of
this history, what had spent in fifteen burreros years of plays,
they could have won triple the asses they had.

Benina was lucky to find the whole family together, back the asses of his morning excursion.
While I devoured these bran, the sound is entertained in making calculations of probabilities,
and appraise the reasons could be found certainty that come out winning the next day 5005, which
had a tenth. Pulido, examining the case with their powerful inside view, that the blindness of
the eyes prodigious body is increased, clinched the conviction of the burreros, and in a prophetic
tone told them so true was that the 5005 award would, as there is a God in Heaven and the Devil
Hell. Needless to say that the claim fell on that stubborn Benina family as a bomb, and that the
first impulse was to deny all involvement at all seeking, because it was tantamount to give
him lots of money.

Peaks the beggar, saying that was three quarters to throw in a decimito, for her, and this bold
stroke was its effect. Finally, it was agreed that if she bought the tenth, they would take
him half, giving it a real participation of two the magical 5,005, number safe, as safe as looking
pregnant. This was done: left Benin and took a little while one tenth of 4,844, which, seen
by others, and heard singing by blind, controlled the gang lottery throughout the greater confusion
and bewilderment, as if lucky mysterious art had passed from one to another number. Finally,
made themselves the treatment combinations to please everyone, and spread the papers Burrero
participation the old staying with six real in his and two on the other. Pulido went grumbling and
went to his parish in a bad mood, saying that this church had pocritona been to remove the
lot, the burreros Obdulia be ranted against, saying they paid bought bread and pots of flowers,
and that the landlord was going to plant in the street, and Benin
went to see the girl, whom he found in the hands of the hairdresser,
who was trying to fix a pretty head.

That day her in-laws had ordered meatballs and marinated sardines; Luquitas had come home at
six o'clock, and still slept like a puppy. Thought the girl go for a ride, eager to see gardens, trees,
vehicles, smart people, and hairdresser told him to go to Retiro, where would these things, and all the
beasts of the world and also swans, which are a comparative, long neck geese. Knowing that Frasquito
patient, was collected at the home of Doña Paca, the girl was sincere grief, and wanted go see him,
but took it off Benina head. Better to let him rest for a couple of days, avoiding conversations
delusions, which upset the brain. Concurring with these discrete reasons Obdulia goodbye to
her maid, persisting in going for a walk, and the other olive-hurriedly took to the streets
of Ruda, where deudillas want to pay little money. Along the way he thought he should give up some of
the excessive amount spent on lottery and this order was intended
to find the blind Moor for me to play a quarter.

Safer this was not the operation of calling the spirits Soterrana ...

This thought, when he found himself face to face with Petra and Diego, who came to sell, bringing
between the two, hand for hand, basket with ordinary notions trinkets. They stood with wanted
to tell you something wonderful and certainly the interest: "Do not know, master? Almudena the're
looking for.

- Me? But I want to talk to him, see if he wants to take me ...

- It will take your measurements. That said ...

- What?

- That's furious ... Mad lost. To me nearly killed me this morning of the dislike of me. Finally,
the dislocation.

- Moved to Santa Casilda ... Cambroneras be.

- It has given the tarantaina, dancing on one foot alone. "

Burst into laughter the two sluts out of tune, and Benin did not know what to say. Understanding
that the African was ill, said he thought going to San Sebastian after her, to what replied the
others had not come to ask, and if the teacher wanted to find you, seek them Arganzuela toward
or into the street of the Rock, since in that direction they had seen little before. Benina to
where it was told him, briefly released in the street matters of Ruda, and after circling
the brook and up and down repeatedly Rock Street, saw the Moroccan,
who left the house of a blacksmith.

Came to him, took him by arm y. ..

"Release me, release me you said the blind man ...-- shuddering from head to foot, as if receives
an electric shock -.

Poor you, winning you ... I kill you. "

Alarmose the poor woman, warning in the face of his friend very great
confusion: contracted and lips swelled with convulsive vibrations,
disfiguring his usual physiognomic expression; hands and legs trembled
and his voice was hoarse.

"What are you, Almudenilla? What fly has bitten you?

- Chop you me, fly bad ... Viner me ... I want to talk tigo. Bad Muqui be you ...

- We go where you want, man. If you think you're crazy! ".

Fell to the Round, and Morocco, knowing that land, led to the gas factory, carried away by her
friend by the arm. Passed by narrow paths to walk the Acacias, without the good woman could
obtain a clear explanation of the reasons that strange uneasiness.

"Let's sit here - Benina said upon reaching the tar factory -;'m cansadita.

- We do not ... more abaixo ...».

And they burst through a very steep trail, opened in the embankment.

Had shot the two slope if Benina not hold his moderating pace, and
it sure where put the plant.

They came finally to a place lower than the ride, broken ground,
full slags seem lavas of a volcano left behind homes, grounded at
higher altitudes the heads of them had roofs of homes before poor,
their lowest level feet.

In the riots of that hollow distinguished miserable huts, and far
away, oppressed between the moles of the Asylum of Santa Cristina
and workshop Chainsaw, the neighborhood injuries, where destitute
families swarm.

They both sat down. Almudena, taking snorts, wiped the copious sweat from his forehead. Benina
did not take his eyes, listening to his movements, as it did not
have them all, seeing alone with the mad Moroccan place so lonely.

"Let's see ... masters ... to see why I'm so bad and so misleading. Why?

- Poique you n'gañar me. I knowledge acquired you, you quiries other ... Yes, yes ... Lord Bunite,
cabaiero Beau ... you wanted him ... Weasel him home sick ... You bring him your house ... knowledge
acquired yours ... knowledge acquired ... rich him, sir him ...

- Who told you these potatoes, Almudena? - Said the good woman, laughing with all his soul.

- Do not deny you anything ... Your n'fadar me you me ...». riyendo

By speaking thus possessed of a sudden fury, rose, and before Benina could sense the danger that
threatened her, she burst upon the club in full strength. Thanks that could save the unhappy
head apart strongly, but the shoulder, no. She wanted to snatch the stick, but before that I
tried got another whack at shoulder, and a third in the hip ... The
best defense was the leak.

In a blink eye, the old woman was ten paces of the blind. It tried to follow, she sought him
turns, is placed in a safe place, and he vented his furious blows in the air and soil.

We have had the courage, though late, to apply this principle to South Africa and Ireland.
There remains our greatest act of courage and wisdom--to apply it to India.--G. Lowes Dickinson,
"The War and the Way Out," pp. 34 et seq.

       *       *       *       *       *

A WAR NOTE FOR DEMOCRATS.

"The truth about the present fighting--well, it cannot be rendered in words significant enough
to shock into understanding the people who are looking in the newspapers now for stories of
heroism, 'brilliant bayonet charges,' and the rest of the inducements which sell stories of
warfare, but tell us nothing about it. Perhaps, indeed, there are no words for it. I doubt
whether the sincerest artist, finely sensitive, and with the choicest army of words at his
ready and accurate command, could assemble the case. The mind of a witness in France is not
stirred; it is stunned. One is speechless before the spectacle of men, not fighting in the
way two angry men would fight, but coolly blasting great masses of their opponents to pieces
at long range, and out of sight of each other, till a region with its wrecked towns and homesteads
is littered with human bowels and fragments. It is possible to value human life too highly,
maybe. But what profit, physical, moral, or economic, can be got from draining several nations'
best male generative force into the clay, I leave it to worshippers of tribal war-gods of whatever
church, and to the military minds, to explain. But unless the democracies of Europe, after
settling this business, see to securing such a settlement --whatever the governing classes
desire--that this Continental waste can never occur again, then one would have to admit human
nature is too stupid and base to be troubled over any longer."--H.M. Tomlinson, "English Review,"
December, 1914, p. 75.

       *       *       *       *       *

PATRIOTISM!

"It would seem, then, that love of our country can flourish only through the hatred of other
countries, and the massacre of those who sacrifice themselves in defence of them. There is
in this theory a ferocious absurdity, a Neronian dilettantism which repels me in the very depths
of my being. No! Love of my country does not demand that I shall hate and slay those noble
and faithful souls who also love their country, but rather that I should honour them, and seek
to unite myself with them for our common good....

"You Socialists on both sides claim to be defending liberty against tyranny--French liberty
against the Kaiser, Germany liberty against the Tsar. Would you defend one despotism against
another? Unite and make war on both. There was no reason for war between the Western nations;
French, English, and German, we are all brothers, and do not hate one another. The war-preaching
Press is envenomed by a minority, a minority vitally interested in maintaining these hatreds;
but our peoples, I know, ask for peace and liberty, and that alone."--From Romain Rolland's
pamphlet "Above the Battlefield," Cambridge, 1914.

       *       *       *       *       *

NO PATRIOTISM IN BUSINESS!

The following leaderette is from the Glasgow Evening Citizen for the 15th of January:--

"In business patriotism does not enter. Insistently the pocket comes first. And if the British
consumer of aniline dyes can obtain his raw material more advantageously from the German than
from the British producer, he will probably be ready to do so for the greater gain of more
economic production in his own business."

       *       *       *       *       *

MANIFESTO OF THE INDEPENDENT LABOUR PARTY.

"We desire neither the aggrandizement of German militarism nor Russian militarism, but the
danger is that this war will promote one or the other. Britain has placed herself behind Russia,
the most reactionary, corrupt, and oppressive Power in Europe. If Russia is permitted to gratify
her territorial ambitions and extend her Cossack rule, civilization and democracy will be gravely
imperilled. Is it for this that Britain has drawn the sword?

"To us who are Socialists the workers of Germany and Austria, no less than the workers of France
and Russia, are comrades and brothers; in this hour of carnage and eclipse we have friendship
and compassion to all victims of militarism. Our nationality and independence, which are dear
to us, we are ready to defend, but we cannot rejoice in the organized murder of tens of thousands
of workers of other lands who go to kill and be killed at the command of rulers to whom the
people are as pawns.

"The People must everywhere resist such territorial aggression and national abasement as will
pave the way for fresh wars; and, throughout Europe, the workers must press for frank and honest
diplomatic policies, controlled by themselves, for the suppression of militarism and the establishment
of the United States of Europe, thereby advancing towards the world's peace. Unless these steps
are taken Europe, after the present calamity, will be still more subject to the increasing
domination of militarism, and liable to be drenched with blood."

       *       *       *       *       *

RESPONSIBILITY RESTS ON THE WHOLE CAPITALIST CLASS.

"Prussian militarism, as we have shown in previous issues, exists, as all militarism does,
to further and protect trade. The furtherance of that trade meant territorial expansion, which
in its turn was a menace to Britain and her allies. Thus it is that this war, carefully manoeuvred
by the diplomats, is being fought to conserve to one set of capitalists their right to exploit
the peoples, and to check another set from encroaching upon that right.

"Germany--or rather, the capitalists of Germany, for whom the Kaiser has always been the "Publicity
Agent"--has consistently worked toward the objective of challenging the right of Britain to
a world-wide Empire. To the German capitalists this war is but the realization of their philosophy,
"Might is Right," and, reckless of human life and suffering, a European war is to them the
way to vaster fields of exploitation and greater wealth. Their militarism was the machine,
and the workers the cogs of the wheels. British capitalists, on the other hand, determined
to maintain what they hold, forgetful of how it had been obtained, were thus compelled to take
up the cudgels for their own sakes; and here, as in Germany, the workers are the tools used
to save their fortunes and conserve their rights."--"The Voice of Labour," October, 1914.

"And it is not unlikely that the present bloody catastrophe will at last awaken the people
from their indifference. The bitter pain and fearful suffering will perhaps make a deeper impression
than the words of the revolutionaries. It is possible that the Social Revolution will be the
last act in the present tragedy; possible that murderous militarism will be drowned in the
blood of its numberless victims; that the people of the different countries will unite against
the bloody regime of modern Capitalism and its institutions, and finally produce a new social
culture upon the basis of free Socialism."--"Freedom," September 14.

In an American contemporary a quotation is given from an issue of Vorwärts which was suppressed
by the German Government. It reads:--

"The comrades abroad can be assured that the German working class disapproves to-day of every
piratical policy of State just as it has always disapproved and that it is determined to resist
the predatory subjugation of foreign peoples as strongly as the circumstances permit. The comrades
in foreign lands can be assured that, though the German workmen are also protecting their Fatherland,
they will nevertheless not forget that their interests are the same as those of the proletariat
in other countries, who, like themselves, have been compelled to go to war against their will,
indeed, even against their often repeated pronouncements in favour of peace."

       *       *       *       *       *

TEXT OF LIEBKNECHT'S PROTEST.

The Berner Tagwacht publishes the full text of Karl Liebknecht's protest against the vote of
credit by the Reichstag on December 2nd. The protest was not read, the President having vetoed
it under pretext that it would entail a call to order. The protest was communicated to the
German Press. Not one paper published it. It runs:--

"This war, desired by none of the peoples concerned, has not broken out in behalf of the welfare
of the German people or any other. It is an Imperialist war, a war for the capitalist domination
of the world's markets and for the political domination of important regions for the placing
of industrial and banking capital. From the point of view of rivalry in armaments, it is a
preventive war provoked by the German and Austrian war parties together in the obscurity of
semi-absolutism and of secret diplomacy."

After declaring that this is not a defensive war for Germany, the protest continues:--

"A rapid peace, one which does not humiliate anybody, a peace without conquests, this is what
we must demand. Every effort in this direction must be favourably received. The continuous
and simultaneous affirmation of this desire, in all the belligerent countries, can alone put
a stop to the bloody massacre before the complete exhaustion of all the peoples concerned.
A peace based upon the international solidarity of the working class and on the liberty of
all the peoples can alone be a lasting peace. It is in this sense that the proletariats of
all countries must furnish, even in the course of this war, a Socialist effort for peace.

"But my protest is against the war, against those who are responsible for it, against those
who direct it; it is against the capitalist policy which gave it birth; it is directed against
the capitalist objects pursued by it, against the plans of annexation, against the violation
of the neutrality of Belgium and Luxemburg, against military dictatorship, against the total
oblivion of social and political duties of which the Government and ruling classes are still
to-day guilty. For this reason, I reject the military credits asked for."--From the "Daily
News," December 14, 1914.

"KARL LIEBKNECHT.

"BERLIN, December 2."

       *       *       *       *       *

DANGER OF RUSSIA.

The following is the text of the resolution passed by the Central Committee of the Russian
Social Democratic Party in reply to M. Vandervelde's appeal on behalf of the Allied cause:--

"We recognize the anti-democratic character of the Prussian hegemony, but as Russian Social
Democrats we cannot forget another enemy of the workers, and no less dangerous--Russian absolutism.
In home affairs this enemy remains what it always has been, a merciless oppressor and an unceasing
exploiter. Even at the present moment, when we should have thought this despotism would be
more cautious, it remains the same and continues the political persecution of the democracy,
and of all subject nationalities. To-day all Socialist journals are stopped, all working class
organizations are disbanded, many hundreds of members are arrested, and our brave comrades
are sent to exile just as before. Should this war end in victory for our present Government,
it will become the centre and mainstay of international reaction.... Our immediate objective
should be the convocation of a Constitutional Assembly. We demand this in the interests of
the same European democracy on whose behalf you appeal. Our party is a very important section
of the world's democracies, and by fighting for our interests we are at the same time fighting
for the interests of all democracies, enlarging and strengthening them. We hope that our interests
are not considered as opposed to those of other European democracies which we esteem as highly
as our own. We are persuaded that Russian absolutism is the chief support of reactionary militarism
in Europe, and that it has bred in the German hegemony the dangerous enmity towards European
democracy."

       *       *       *       *       *

LETTER ON RUSSIA FROM P. KROPOTKIN.

"'But what about the danger of Russia?' my readers will probably ask.

"To this question, every serious person will probably answer, that when you are menaced by
a great, very great danger, the first thing to do is to combat this danger, and then see to
the next. Belgium and a good deal of France are conquered by Germany, and the whole civilization
of Europe is menaced by its iron fist. Let us cope first with this danger.

"As to the next, Is there anybody who has not thought himself that the present war, in which
all parties in Russia have risen unanimously against the common enemy, will render a return
to the autocracy of old materially impossible? And then, those who have seriously followed
the revolutionary movement of Russia in 1905 surely know what were the ideas which dominated
in the First and Second, approximately freely elected Dumas. They surely know that complete
Home Rule for all the component parts of the Empire was a fundamental point of all the Liberal
and Radical parties. More than that: Finland then actually accomplished her revolution in the
form of a democratic autonomy, and the Duma approved it.

"And finally, those who know Russia and her last movement certainly feel that autocracy will
never more be re-established in the forms it had before 1905, and that a Russian Constitution
could never take the Imperialist forms and spirit which Parliamentary rule has taken in Germany.
As to us, who know Russia from the inside, we are sure that the Russians never will be capable
of becoming the aggressive, warlike nation Germany is. Not only the whole history of the Russians
shows it, but with the Federation which Russia is bound to become in the very near future,
such a warlike spirit would be absolutely incompatible."--Quoted in "Freedom," also in the
"Manchester Guardian," October, 1914.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FUTURE OF EUROPE.

Portion of a letter written by P. Kropotkin to Mr. R.J. Kelly, K.C., of Dublin, December 15, 1915.

"The same for the South Slavs and for all nationalities oppressed in Europe. When the last
Balkan War had shown the inner power of the South Slavs, I greeted in it the disintegration
of the Turkish Empire, which would be followed by the disintegration of the three other Empires--Austria,
Russia, and Germany--so as to open the way for two, three, or more federations. A South Slavonic
federation--the Balkan United State was the dream of Bakunin--would be followed by a free Poland,
free Finland, Free Caucasia, free Siberia, federated for peace purposes. Yes, dear Mr. Kelly,
you are right, we are on the eve of great events in Europe. Warmest wishes that this should
become a reality, or receive a sound beginning of realization, during the coming new year,
and my very best wishes to you of health and vigour.--Sincerely yours,

"P. KROPOTKIN."

       *       *       *       *       *

SERVIA.

"We are therefore justified in declining to accept such evidence. We are witnessing the birththroes
of a new nation, the triumph of the idea of national unity among the disunited Southern Slavs,
and it is the duty of Britain and France, whose Fleets are now operating on the Adriatic, to
insist upon a just and permanent solution, based upon the principle of nationality and the
wishes of the Southern Slav race. Only by treating the problem as an organic whole and avoiding
patchwork we can hope to remove one of the chief danger centres in Europe."--Lecture at Essex
Hall, November 13, 1914, by R.W. Seton Watson.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BATTLEFIELD.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHINESE CHRISTIANS ON THE WAR.

"The most remarkable attitude yet taken in regard to the war by any body of people in the world
is that of the native Christian Churches in China. I was told a fortnight ago by a missionary
just returned from China that the Chinese Christians are holding daily prayer meetings to pray
for peace. They are also praying earnestly that the Christians in Europe may be forgiven for
killing each other, and, in particular, that the British and German churches and ministers
may be forgiven for the blasphemy of praying to the Common Father for victory over one another,
i.e. for Divine assistance in smashing and maiming and murdering more of their fellow Christians.
I am also told that these Chinese Christians appreciate perfectly that for the most part the
people to be killed are helpless, innocent workmen, who have had nothing to do with the cause
of all the trouble. Green was his costume, which was fine as being the work of a highly polished spiders
in the deep bosom of the earth woven with threads of fire. The entourage was Samdai so colorful
and bright dazzling. As I asked Petra if not also His coming Majesty the Queen, he remained
standing a moment the narrator, recalling, and finally realized which also saw Mrs. King, but
very stuffy face like the moon between clouds Mordechai and therefore could not distinguish
right. The Sovereign wore yellow, a color as well as our thoughts when we are between happy
and sad. Expressed this the blind with difficulty supplying the clumsiness of his language
with the physiognomy of the game conviction, and the grimaces and gestures speak volumes.


"This essential friendliness, not between nations, but between people of different nations,
is one of the biggest facts of civilization. And yet it has counted for so little that half
the nations in Europe are fighting one another. Are the causes, then, that have set us fighting
stronger still? Yes, when it is a question of national conscience. And one must regretfully
say yes, as long as it is possible for those who rule nations and desire war to carry out their
will.

"Is that wicked, mediaeval power--in the hands of the few, but still strong enough to overrule
the natural tendencies of peoples towards peace and friendship and to turn their likings into
hatreds--is it going to continue when this war is over? Who can doubt, if it were possible
to take a plebiscite of all the nations who are fighting now as to whether international disputes
should be settled by war or arbitration, what the result would be? Is the desire of the many
to have its chance when this war shall be ended, or shall we submit ourselves again to be dominated
by the desire of the few?"--From "The Daily News," October 5, 1914.

"At one spot where there had been a fierce hand-to-hand fight there were indications that the
combatants when wounded had shared their water-bottles. Near them were a Briton and a Frenchman
whose cold hands were clasped in death, a touching symbol of the unity of the two nations in
this terrible conflict."--From "The Sheffield Telegraph," November 14, 1914.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECONCILIATION IN DEATH.

Letter written by a French cavalry officer as he lay wounded and dying in Flanders.

"There are two other men lying near me, and I do not think there is much hope for them either.
One is an officer of a Scottish regiment, and the other a private in the Uhlans. They were
struck down after me, and when I came to myself I found them bending over me rendering first aid.

"The Britisher was pouring water down my throat from his flask, while the German was endeavouring
to staunch my wound with an antiseptic preparation served out to them by their medical corps.
The Highlander had one of his legs shattered, and the German had several pieces of shrapnel
buried in his side.

"In spite of their own sufferings they were trying to help me, and when I was fully conscious
again the German gave us a morphia injection and took one himself. His medical corps had also
provided him with the injection and the needle, together with printed instructions for its use.

"After the injection, feeling wonderfully at ease, we spoke of the lives we had lived before
the war. We all spoke English, and we talked of the women we had left at home. I am yours, and all I lifetime. Remember, but more gently
than with punishment. And goodbye again and forever. "

Four years after writing this letter, Dona Mencia, away from the world and all treatment of people,
except the religious sisters, were consumed as if a fire inside the devour, withered like a
rose fragrant in the heat of summer, and gave his soul to God the convent of Santa Clara de Córdoba,
building with his resignation, death exemplary Christian a few people
who treated her at the time.

The letter ends with a reference to the failing light and the roar of the guns. It was found
at the dead officer's side by a Red Cross file, and was forwarded to his fiancée.--From "The
Daily Citizen," December 21, 1914.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHRISTMAS, 1914.

Letters from the Front (from the Daily Press).

"Last night (Christmas Eve) was the weirdest stunt I have ever seen. All day the Germans had
been sniping industriously, with some success, but after sunset they started singing, and we
replied with carols. Then they shouted, 'Happy Christmas!' to us, and some of us replied in
German. It was a topping moonlight night, and we carried on long conversations, and kept singing
to each other and cheering. Later they asked us to send one man out to the middle, between
the trenches, with a cake, and they would give us a bottle of wine.

"Hunt went out, and five of them came out and gave him the wine, cigarettes, and cigars. After
that you could hear them for a long time calling from half-way, 'Engleeshman, kom hier.' So
one or two more of our chaps went out and exchanged cigarettes, etc., and they all seemed decent
fellows."

       *       *       *       *       *

"We had quite a sing-song last night (Christmas Eve)," says one writer. "The Germans gave a
song, and then our chaps gave them one in return. A German that could speak English, and some
others, came right up to our trenches, and we gave them cigarettes and papers to read, as they
never get any news, and then we let them walk back to their own trenches. Then our chaps went
over to their trenches, and they let them come back all right. About five o'clock on Christmas
Eve one of them shouted across and told us that if we did not fire on them they would not open
fire on us, and so the officers agreed. About twenty of them came up all at once and started
chatting away to our chaps like old chums, and neither side attempted to shoot."

       *       *       *       *       *

"I suppose I have experienced about the most extraordinary Christmas one could conceive. About
seven o'clock on Christmas Eve the Saxons, who are entrenched about seventy yards from our
trenches, began singing. They had a band playing, and our chaps cheered and shouted to them.
After some time they stood on the top of their trenches, and we did likewise. We mutually agreed
to cease fire, and all night we sang and shouted to each other. To cap everything, their band
played 'God save the King.'

"When daylight came two of our fellows, at the invitation of the enemy, left the trenches,
met half-way, and drank together. That completed it. They said they would not fire if we did
not; so after that we strolled about talking to each other."

       *       *       *       *       *

"On Christmas morning it was very foggy, so we had a short run on the top of the trenches to
get warm. When the fog lifted we, as well as the Germans, were exposed. No firing occurred,
and the Germans began to wave umbrellas and rifles, and we answered. They sang and we sang.
When we met we found they were fairly old fellows. They gave us sausages, cigars, sweets, and
perkin. We mixed together, played mouth-organs, and took part in dances. 

Then the old man said to be dying of hunger had not entered his mouth, in three days, more than
a piece of raw cod that occurred in a shop, and some of corruscos bread, dipped in the fountain
to soften them, because they had no bone in the mouth. From San Jose Day that took the soup
in the Sacred Heart, there was no remedy for it; defense was nowhere, the sky did not like
him, nor the earth either. The Scotsmen then started the bagpipes, and we had a rare old jollification, which
included football, in which the Germans took part. The Germans said they were tired of the
war, and wished it was over. Next day we got an order that all communication and friendly intercourse
must cease."

       *       *       *       *       *

"I went up into the trenches on Christmas night. One wouldn't have thought there was a war
going on. All day our soldiers and the Germans were talking and singing half-way between the
opposing trenches. The space was filled with English and Germans handing one another cigars.
At night we sang carols."

       *       *       *       *       *

EXTRACT FROM A LETTER PUBLISHED BY THE "Berliner Tageblatt" OF DECEMBER 24, 1914.

The author of the letter is Baron Marschall von Bieberstein, a captain of the reserves and
Prussian "Landrat," obviously a kinsman of the late diplomatist and Ambassador in London. He
wrote on October 18 from the trenches. He said:--

"Whoever fights in this war in the front ranks, whoever realizes all the misery and unspeakable
wretchedness caused by a modern war ... will unavoidably arrive at the conviction, if he had
not acquired it earlier, that mankind must find a way of overcoming war. It is untrue that
eternal peace is a dream, and not even a beautiful one. A time will and must arrive which will
no longer know war, and this time will mark a gigantic progress in comparison with our own.
Just as human morality has overcome the war of all against all; just as the individual had
to accustom himself to seek redress of his grievances at the hands of the State after blood
feuds and duels had been banished by civil peace, so in their development will the nations
discover ways and means to settle budding conflicts not by means of wars, but in some other
regulated fashion, irrespective of what each of us individually may think."

Unfortunately, the writer of this thoughtful letter fell on the battlefield.

THE END

