Speeches of the Hon. Jefferson Davis, of Mississippi,

                 Delivered During the Summer of 1858:

                   On Fourth of July, 1858, at Sea.
                   At Serenade, at Portland, Maine.
                    At Portland Convention, Maine.
                    At Belfast Encampment, Maine.
                      At Belfast Banquet, Maine.
                     At Portland Meeting, Maine.
                      At Fair at Augusta, Maine.
                       At Faneuil Hall, Boston.
                         At New York Meeting.
                   Before Mississippi Legislature.
                               &c. &c.

                    To the People of Mississippi.

I have been induced by the persistent misrepresentation of popular Addresses made by me at
the North and the South during the year 1858, to collect them, and with extracts from speeches
made by me in the Senate in 1850, to present the whole in this connected form; to the end that
the case may be fairly before those by whose judgment I am willing to stand or fall.

                                                      Jefferson Davis.

                Extracts From Speeches in U.S. Senate.

In the Senate of the United States, May 8, 1850, in presenting the Resolutions of the Legislature
of Mississippi:

It is my opinion that justice will not be done to the South, unless from other promptings than
are about us here--that we shall have no substantial consideration offered to us for the surrender
of an equal claim to California. No security against future harassment by Congress will probably
be given. The rain-bow which some have seen, I fear was set before the termination of the storm.
If this be so, those who have been first to hope, to relax their energies, to trust in compromise
promises, will often be the first to sound the alarm when danger again approaches. Therefore
I say, if a reckless and self-sustaining majority shall trample upon her rights, if the Constitutional
equality of the States is to be overthrown by force, private and political rights to be borne
down by force of numbers, then, sir, when that victory over Constitutional rights is achieved,
the shout of triumph which announces it, before it is half uttered, will be checked by the
united, the determined action of the South, and every breeze will bring to the marauding destroyers
of those rights, the warning: woe, woe to the riders who trample them down! I submit the report
and resolutions, and ask that they may be read and printed for the use of the Senate.--(Cong.
Globe, p. 943-4.)

In the Senate of the United States, June 27, 1850, on the Compromise Bill:

If I have a superstition, sir, which governs my mind and holds it captive, it is a superstitious
reverence for the Union. If one can inherit a sentiment, I may be said to have inherited this
from my revolutionary father. And if education can develop a sentiment in the heart and mind
of man, surely mine has been such as would most develop feelings of attachment for the Union.
But, sir, I have an allegiance to the State which I represent here. I have an allegiance to
those who have entrusted their interests to me, which every consideration of faith and of duty,
which every feeling of honor, tells me is above all other political considerations. I trust
I shall never find my allegiance there and here in conflict. God forbid that the day should
ever come when to be true to my constituents is to be hostile to the Union. If, sir, we have
reached that hour in the progress of our institutions, it is past the age to which the Union
should have lived. If we have got to the point when it is treason to the United States to protect
the rights and interests of our constituents, I ask why should they longer be represented here?
why longer remain a part of the Union? If there is a dominant party in this Union which can
deny to us equality, and the rights we derive through the Constitution; if we are no longer
the freemen our fathers left us; if we are to be crushed by the power of an unrestrained majority,
this is not the Union for which the blood of the Revolution was shed; this is not the Union
I was taught from my cradle to revere; this is not the Union in the service of which a large
portion of my life has been passed; this is not the Union for which our fathers pledged their
property, their lives, and sacred honor. No, sir, this would be a central Government, raised
on the destruction of all the principles of the Constitution, and the first, the highest obligation
of every man who has sworn to support that Constitution would be resistance to such usurpation.
This is my position.

My colleague has truly represented the people of Mississippi as ardently attached to the Union.
I think he has not gone beyond the truth when he has placed Mississippi one of the first, if
not the first, of the States of the Confederation in attachment to it. But, sir, even that
deep attachment and habitual reverence for the Union, common to us all--even that, it may become
necessary to try by the touchstone of reason. It is not impossible that they should unfurl
the flag of disunion. It is not impossible that violations of the Constitution and of their
rights, should drive them to that dread extremity. I feel well assured that they will never
reach it until it has been twice and three times justified. If, when thus fully warranted,
they want a standard bearer, in default of a better, I am at their command.--(Cong. Globe,
p. 995-6)

                   On Fourth of July, 1858, At Sea.
                       [From the Boston Post.]

The fine ship Joseph Whitney, from Baltimore, Captain S. Howes, was making for this port on
the day of the celebration of the nation's birth, and among an unusually brilliant array of
passengers from different parts of the country, was the distinguished Senator, Jefferson Davis,
of Mississippi. The patriotic suggestion of the captain, to celebrate the day in a manner befitting
the great anniversary, met with a hearty response from the company, among whom were zealous
republicans, democrats and Americans. A committee was appointed to invite the Senator to make
an address, and he consented.

First, the Declaration of Independence was read by Sebastian F. Streeter, Esq., of Baltimore,
when Senator Davis made an address of singular felicity of diction and impassioned eloquence,
and of such a character as to command the admiration of those who listened to it. He commenced
by happy allusions to the array of beauty and intelligence that stood before him from all parts
of our common country; he then passed in review the condition of the feeble and separate colonies
of 1776, and contrasted with it the country now--the only proper republic on earth, as it stood
before the world in its wonderful progress in art, and agriculture, and commerce, and all the
elements that constitute a great nation. When thus sailing on the Atlantic, looking to the
coast of the United States, he was reminded of those bold refugees from the British and French
oppression who crosses these water to found a home in what was then a wilderness. The memory,
too, arose of the many sorrowing hearts and oppressed spirits since born over these waves to
that refuge from political oppression which our fathers founded as the home of liberty and
the asylum of mankind. Her terrtiory {sic}, which now stretches from ocean to ocean, contains
a vast interior yet unpeopled; and, with a destiny of still further and continued expansion
of area, why should the gate of the temple be now shut upon sorrowing mankind? Rather let it
be that the gate should be forever open, and an emblematic flag, hereafter as heretofore, wave
a welcome to all to come to the modern Abdella--fugitives from political oppression.

Senator Davis dwelt at some length on the right of search question--on the insulting claim
which Great Britain made to a peace-right to visit our ships. Under the pretence of stopping
the slave trade--a trade against which the United States was the first nation to raise its
voice--she had interrupted and destroyed a lucrative commerce we had enjoyed in ivory and other
products on the coast of Africa. The late outrages in the Gulf found us, as a people, with
domestic quarrels on our hands; but if this power counted on existing divisions and on making
them wider, the result showed how great was her error. The insult was resented by a united
people; the Senate, as one man, leaped up against British pretensions; while England, as suddenly,
astonished, withdrew her pretensions. The claim she so long preferred is given up--entirely
abandoned. The same spirit that resented insult in the past will resent it in the future. I
stand, said the Senator, substantially on the deck of an American vessel; it is American soil;
the American flag floats over it; its right to course the ocean pathway is perfect. When the
blue firmament reflected its own color in the sea, it was the unappropriated property of mankind;
and it was arrogant and idle for any nation to deny to the United States her full enjoyment
of this common property. It was for the full and undisturbed enjoyment of this right that out
fathers, when much less prepared for war than we are now, engaged in the conflict of 1812;
and for this right we were ready to strike in 1858. Let a feign power, under any pretence whatever,
insult the American flag, and it will find that we are not a divided people, but that a mighty
arm will be raised to smite down the insulter, and this great country will continue united.

Trifling politicians in the South, or in the North, or in the West, may continue to talk otherwise,
but it will be of no avail. They are like the mosquitoes around the ox: they annoy, but they
cannot wound, and never kill. There was a common interest which run through all the diversified
occupations and various products of these sovereign States; there was a common sentiment of
nationality which beat in every American bosom; there were common memories sweet to us all,
and, though clouds had occasionally darkened our political sky, the good sense and the good
feeling of the people had thus far averted any catastrophe destructive of our constitution
and the Union. It was in fraternity and an elevation of principle which rose superior to sectional
or individual aggrandizement that the foundations of our Union were laid; and if we, the present
generation, be worthy of our ancestry, we shall not only protect those foundations from destruction,
but build higher and wider this temple of liberty, and inscribe perpetuity upon its tablet.

In the course of his beautiful speech, senator Davis passed a noble eulogium on our mother
country; and dwelt on the many reasons why the most cordial friendship should be maintained
with her; and he concluded by a tribute to the fair sex--the women--beautiful woman; to the
wondrous educational influence as the mother which she exercised over the minds of men. It
is ever, at all times, felt and operative--upon the dreary waste of ocean, on the lonely prairie,
in the troublous contests at the national halls. And when the arm is moved in the deadly conflicts
of the battle-field, and the foe is vanquished, then the gentle influences instilled by women
do their work, and the heart melts into tears of pity and prompts to deeds of mercy.

After this intellectual repast, then succeeded congratulations; the air was made vocal with
song; while, through the foresight of the gallant captain, at the evening hour, the sky about
the good ship Joseph Whitney was brilliant with those various pyrotechnic displays which must
be so grateful to the spirit of patriotic John Adams, of bonfire and illumination-memory.

           Speech at the Portland Serenade, July 9th, 1858.

When the mother country entered upon her career of oppression, in disregard of chartered and
constitutional rights, our forefathers did not stop to measure the exact weight of the burden,
or to ask whether the pressure bore most upon this colony or upon that, but saw in it the infraction
of a great principle, the denial of a common right, in defence of which they made common cause;
Massachusetts, Virginia and South Carolina vieing with each other as to who should be foremost
in the struggle, where the penalty of failure would be a dishonorable grave.

Tempered by the trials and sacrifices of the revolution, dignified by its noble purposes, elevated
by its brilliant triumphs, endeared to each other by its glorious memories, they abandoned
the confederacy, not to fly apart when the outward pressure of hostile fleets and armies were
removed, but to draw closer their embrace in the formation of a more perfect union. By such
men, thus trained and ennobled, our Constitution was formed. But my friend, I came neither
distrusting, not apprehensive, of which you have proof in the fact that I brought with me the
objects of tenderest affection and solicitude--my wife and my children; they have shared with
me your hospitality, and will alike remain your debtors. If at some future time, when I am
mingled with the dust, and the arm of my infant son has been nerved for deeds of manhood, the
storm of war should burst upon your city, I feel that, relying upon his inheriting the instincts
of his ancestors and mine, I may pledge him in that perilous hour to stand by your side in
the defence of your hearth stones, and in maintaining the honor of a flag whose constellation
though torn and smoked in many a battle, by sea and land, has never been stained with dishonor,
and will I trust forever fly as free as the breeze which unfolds it.

A stranger to you, the salubrity of your location and the beauty of its scenery were not wholly
unknown to me, nor were there wanting associations which bust memory connected with your people.
You will pardon me for alluding to one whose genius shed a lustre upon all it touched, and
whose qualities gathered about him hosts of friends, wherever he was known. Prentiss, a native
of Portland, lived from youth to middle age in the county of my residence, and the inquiries
which have been made, show me that the youth excited the interest which the greatness of the
man justified, and that his memory thus remains a link to connect your home with mine.

A cursory view, when passing through your town on former occasions, had impressed me with the
great advantages of your harbor, its easy entrance, its depth, and its extensive accommodation
for shipping. But its advantages, and if facilities as they have been developed by closer inspection,
have grown upon me until I realize that it is no boast, but the language of sober truth which
in the present state of commerce pronounces them unequaled in any harbor of our country.

And surely no place could be more inviting to an invalid who sought a refuge from the heat
of a southern summer. Here waving elms offer him shared walks, and magnificent residences surrounded
by flowers, fill the mind with ideas of comfort and of rest. If weary of constant contact with
his fellow men, he seeks a deeper seclusion, there, in the back ground of this grand amphitheatre,
lie the eternal mountains, frowning with brow of rock and cap of snow upon the smiling fields
beneath, and there in its recesses may be found as much of wildness, and as much of solitude,
as the pilgrim weary of the cares of life can desire. If he turn to the front, your capacious
harbor, studded with green islands of ever varying light and shade, and enlivened by all the
stirring evidences of commercial activity, offer him the mingled charms of busy life and nature's
calm repose. A few miles further, and he may site upon the quiet shore to listen to the murmuring
wave until the troubled spirit sinks to rest, and in the little sail that vanishes on the illimitable
sea, we may find the type of the voyage which he is so soon to take, when, his ephemeral existence
closed, he embarks for that better state which lies beyond the grave.

Richly endowed as you are by nature in all which contributes to pleasure and to usefulness,
the stranger cannot pass without paying a tribute to the much which your energy has achieved
for yourselves. Where else will one find a more happy union of magnificence and comfort, where
better arrangements to facilitate commerce? Where so much of industry, with so little noise
and bustle? Where, in a phrase, so much effected in proportion to the means employed? We hear
the puff of the engine, the roll of the wheel, the ring of the axe, and the saw, but the stormy,
passionate exclamations so often mingled with the sounds, are no where heard. Yet, neither
these nor other things which I have mentioned; attractive though they be, have been to me the
chief charm which I have found among you. For above all these I place the gentle kindness,
the cordial welcome, the hearty grasp, which made me feel truly and at once, though wandering
far, that I was still at home.

My friends, I thank you for this additional manifestation of your good will.

                  Speech at the Portland Convention.

On Thursday, August 24th, 1858, when the Democratic Convention had nearly concluded its business,
a committee was appointed to wait on Mr. Davis, and request him to gratify them by his presence
in the Convention. He expressed his willingness to comply with the wishes of his countrymen,
and accordingly repaired to the City Hall. On entering he was greeted in the most cordial and
enthusiastic manner. After business was finished, he proceeded to the rostrum, and, addressing
the Convention, said:

Friends, fellow-citizens, and brethren in Democracy, he thanked them for the honor conferred
by their invitation to be present at their deliberations, and expressed the pleasure he felt
in standing in the midst of the Democracy of Maine--amidst so many manifestations of the important
and gratifying fact that the Democratic is, in truth, a national party. He did not fail to
remember that the principles of the party declaring for the largest amount of personal liberty
consistent with good government, and to the greatest possible extent of community and municipal
independence, would render it in their view, as in his own, improper for him to speak of those
subjects which were local in their character, and he would endeavor not so far to trespass
upon their kindness as to refer to anything which bore such connection, direct or indirect--and
he hoped that those of their opponents who, having the control of type, fancied themselves
licensed to manufacture facts, would not hold them responsible for what he did not say. He
said he should carry with him, as one of the pleasant memories of his brief sojourn in Maine,
the additional assurance, which intercourse with the people had given him, that there still
lives a National Party, struggling and resolved bravely to struggle for the maintenance of
the Constitution, the abatement of sectional hostility, and the preservation of the fraternal
compact made by the Fathers of the Republic. He said, rocked in the cradle of Democracy, having
learned its precepts from his father,--who was a Revolutionary Soldier--and in later years
having been led forward in the same doctrine by the patriot statesman--of whom such honorable
mention was made in their resolutions--Andrew Jackson, he had always felt that he had in his
own heart a standard by which to measure the sentiments of a Democrat. When, therefore, he
had seen evidences of a narrow sectionalism, which sought not the good of the whole, not even
the benefit of a part, but aimed at the injury of a particular section, the pulsations of his
own heart told him such cannot be the purpose, the aim, or the wish of any American Democrat--and
he saw around him to-day evidence that his opinion in this respect had here its verification.
As he looked upon the weather-beaten faces of the veterans and upon the flushed cheek and flashing
eye of the youth, which told of the fixed resolve of the one, and the ardent, noble hopes of
the other, strengthened hope and bright anticipations filled his mind, and he feared not to
ask the questions shall narrow interests, shall local jealousies, shall disregard of the high
purposes for which our Union was ordained, continue to distract our people and impede the progress
of our government toward the high consummation which prophetic statesmen have so often indicated
as her destiny?--[Voices, no, no, no! Much applause.]

Thanks for that answer; let every American heart respond no; let every American head, let every
American hand unite in the great object of National development. Let our progress be across
the land and over the sea, let our flag as stated in your resolutions, continue to wave its
welcome to the oppressed, who flee from the despotism of other lands, until the constellation
which marks the number of our States which have already increased from thirteen to thirty two,
shall go on multiplying into a bright galaxy covering the field on which we now display the
revered stripes, which record the original size of our political family, and shall shed its
benign light over all mankind, to point them to the paths of self-government and constitutional
liberty.

He here referred to the history of the Democratic party, and numbered among its glories the
various acts of territorial acquisition and triumphs through its foreign intercourse in the
march of civilization and National amity, as well as in the glories which from time to time
had been shed by the success of our arms upon the name and character of the American people.
He alluded to the recent attempt by some of the governments of Europe, to engraft upon National
law a prohibition against privateering. He said whenever other governments were willing to
declare that private property should be exempt from the rigors of war, on sea as it is on land,
our government might meet them more than half way, but to a proposition which would leave private
property the prey of national vessels and thus give the whole privateering to those governments
which maintained a large naval establishment in time of peace, he would unhesitatingly answer
no. Our merchant marine constituted the militia of the sea--how effective it had been in our
last struggle with a maritime power, he need not say to the sons of those who had figured so
conspicuously in that species of warfare. The policy of our government was peace. We could
not consent to bear the useless expense of a naval establishment larger than was necessary
for its proper uses in a time of peace. Relying as we had and must hereafter upon the merchant
marine to man whatever additional vessels we should require, and upon the bold and hardy Yankee
sailor, when he could no longer get freight for his craft, to receive a proper armament, and
go forth like a knight errant of the sea in quest of adventure against the enemies of his country's
flag.

He said our country was powerful for all military purposes, and if asked to compare her armies
and her navy with those of the great powers of Europe, he would answer, that is not our standard.
History teaches that our strength is in the courage and patriotism, the skill and intelligence
of our people. A part of the American army was before him, and a part of the American navy
was lying in the harbor of their city. That army and that navy had fought the battles of the
Revolution, of the "war of 1812" and of the war with Mexico, and would never be found wanting,
whilst the patriotism of the earlier days of the Republic, proved a sufficient cement to hold
the different parts of our wide spread and extending country together. He said that everything
around him spoke eloquently of the wisdom of the men who founded these colonies-their descendants,
who sat before him, contrasted strongly, as did their history and present power, stand out
in bold relief, when compared with those of the inhabitants of Central and Southern America.
Chief among the reasons for this, he believed to be the self-reliant hardihood of their forefathers
who, when but a handful, found themselves confronted by hordes of savages, yet proudly maintained
the integrity of their race and asserted its supremacy over the descendants of Shem, in whose
tents they had come to dwell. They preferred to encounter toil, privation and carnage, rather
than debase their lineage and race. Their descendants of that pure and heroic blood have advanced
to the high standard of civilization attainable by that type of mankind. Stability and progress,
wealth and comfort, art and science, have followed their footsteps.

Among our neighbors of Central and Southern America, we see the Caucasian mingled with the
Indian and the African. They have the forms of free government, because they have copied them.
To its benefits they have not attained, because that standard of civilization is above their
race. Revolution succeeds Revolution, and the country mourns that some petty chief may triumph,
and through a sixty days' government ape the rulers of the earth. Even now the nearest and
strongest of these American Republics, which were fashioned after the model of our own, seems
to be tottering to a fall, and the world is inquiring as to who will take possession; or, as
protector, raise and lead a people who have shown themselves incompetent to govern themselves.

He said our fathers laid the foundation of Empire, and declared its purposes; to their sons
it remained to complete their superstructure. The means by which this end was to be secured
were simple and easy. It involved no harder task than that each man should attend to his own
business, that no community should arrogantly assume to interfere with the affairs of another--and
that all by the honorable obligation of fulfiling that compact which their fathers had made.

He then referred to the commercial position of Maine, and spoke of her brightly unfolding prospects
of prosperity and greatness. Many considered her wealth to consist of her forests, and that
her prosperity would decline when her timber was exhausted--he held to a different opinion,
and thought they might welcome the day, when the sombre shadows of the Pine gave place to verdant
pastures and fruitful fields. Was he asked, what then was to become of the interest of ship-building?
He would answer--let it be changed from wood to iron. The skill to be aquired be a few years'
experience, would at a fair price for iron, enable our ship builders to construct iron ships,
which, taking into account their greater capacity for freight and greater durability, would
be cheaper than vessels of wood, even whilst timber was as abundant as now;--at least such
was the information he had derived from persons well informed upon those subjects.

He expressed the gratification he felt for the courtesy of the Democracy in Maine, and doubted
not that the Democracy of Mississippi would receive it, with grateful recognition, as evincing
fraternal sentiment by kindness done to one of her sons, not the less a representative, because
a humble member of her Democracy.

                    Speech at Belfast Encampment.

About the o'clock the troops at the encampment being under arms, Col. Davis was escorted to
the ground and reviewed them. He was then introduced to the troops by Gen. Cushman, as follows--

Officers and fellow soldiers, I introduce to you Col. Jefferson Davis, an eminent citizen of
Mississippi,--a man, and I say a hero, who has, in the service of his country, been among and
faced hostile guns.

Col. Davis replied as follows--

Citizen Soldiers:--I feel pleased and gratified at the exhibition I have witnessed of the military
spirit and instruction of the volunteer militia of Maine. I acknowledge the compliment which
has been paid to me, and I welcome it as the indication of the liberality and national sentiment
which makes the militia of each State the effective, as they are the constitutional defenders
of our whole country.

To one who loves his country in all its parts, it is natural to rejoice in whatever contributes
to the prosperity and honor, and marks the stability and progress of any portion of its people.
I therefore look upon the evidence presented to me of the soldierly enthusiasm and military
acquirements displayed on this occasion, with none the less pleasure because I am the citizen
of another and distant State. It was not the policy of our government to maintain large armies
of navies in time of peace. The history of our past wars established the fact that it was not
needful to do so. The militia had bee found equal to all the emergencies of war. Their patriotism,
their intelligence, their knowledge of the use of arms, had given to then all the efficiency
of veterans, and on many bloody fields they have shown their superiority over the disciplined
troops of their enemies. A people morally and intellectually equal to self-government, must
also be equal in self-defence. My friends, your worthy General has alluded to my connection
with the military service of the country. The memory arose to myself when the troops this day
marched past me, and when I looked upon their manly bearing and firm step. I thought could
I have seen them thus approaching the last field of battle on which I served, where the changing
tide several times threatened disaster to the American flag, with what joy I would have welcomed
those striped and starred banners, the emblem and the guide of the free and the brave, and
with what pride would the heart have beaten when welcoming the danger's hour, brethren from
so remote an extremity of our expanded territory.

One of the evidences of the fraternal confidence and mutual reliance of our fathers was to
be found in their compact or mutual protection and common defence. So long as their sons preserve
the spirit and appreciate the purpose of their fathers, the United States will remain invincible,
their power will grow with the lapse of time, and their example show brighter and brighter
as revolving ages roll over the temple our fathers dedicated to constitutional liberty, and
founded upon truths announced to their sons, but intended for mankind. Why do people gloom-loose, ghetto?
How can possess you, who are truly, there? It look that you have fallen into error. That i is not
what am they are for we rose we fell. Appliance wheels whereby that period, people are awake
butte-side, run. The Rights on butte-region and it am flush night-fountain.

                 They of this rights are one during a have prevent to sunrise. There is the
quality. If you thought that all thither during whatever am it possess
them had in-- if you believed that-- merely what am you study doing
would be nothing bad than indebted.

But you do not think that. Them are afraid consideration for what might
come after. You come to state that your emotion.

You had the recommendation "professional." You care certainty is
why you assure to democracy.

You state me had your case; you. It is: you need not be afraid. Period
will be angry-- Superior will punish you. You state you did not ignore in Superior.
So be one of his impute. God.

Complement together indebted if they were handle of they treat him is all. Mathematics, sure encyclical
represent sure. That lyric are truly of symbols during inside in ideas. "region" you realize them
struggled with nothing in it that makes being, you desire adversity, i ne'er. God will be angry.
Daemon will send too, you will have sent yourself-- it will be God for you fell, it will be
your punishment on yourself. But it is not in you rose to understand that i arrive hour. All of a
"belief of life," they are name, are, i believe, of two. I had together suppose Hour. Who hold them
rose the first are in air-loose. The others in box, here, they name time. And they ignore that,
after all, ne'er air-there; this democracy of whatever am them remembers the day when he first discovered
that there were cracks complain we complain i complain i possess in box, he struggled that
one could worst seat by come up outside to attic that i hold in. Only to education during Rights
of reality was thus complain them complain for-- never, that a part of it put outside i am. These
are most monad, against walls of loge, understand, through chinks, and cognize that, day, they shall
have it am. The others, much Materialist, strangely come the attic
of box, bang.

Their reality is certainly. Thing.
 Before them lay the country they had come to invade, but there,
at the outer gate, their march was arrested, and in sight of the ships which brought them supplies
and reinforcements, they terminated a campaign, the scale and proclaimed objects of which had
caused the world to look on in expectation of achievements the like of which man had not seen.
Why was it so? was it not that they were unable to move from the depot of supplies, though
a distance less than half of that over which our army passed before reaching a productive region
would have brought the allied forces to a country filled with all the supplies necessary for
the support of an army. Is it boastful to say that American troops, and an American treasury,
would have encountered and have overcome such an obstacle? He did not forget the complaints
which had been made on account of the vast expenditures which had been made in the prosecution
of the war with Mexico; but he remembered with pride the capacity which the country had exhibited
to bear such expenditure, and believed that our people had no money standard by which to measure
the duty of their government, and the honor of their flag. We bear with us from the wars in
which we have been engaged no other memory of their cost than the loss of the gallant dead.
To the printed reports and tabular statements we must go when we desire to know how many dollars
were expended. The successful soldier when he returns from the field is met by a welcome proportionate
to the leaves which he has added to the wreath of his country's glory. Each has his reward;
to one, the admiring listener at the hearthstone; to another, the triumphal reception; to all,
the respect which patriotism renders to patriotic service. To the soldier who, in the early
part of the Mexican war, set the seal of invincibility upon American arms, and subsequently
by a signal victory dispersed and disorganized the regular army of Mexico, his countrymen voted
the highest reward known to our government. Twice before have the people in like manner manifested
their approbation and esteem. Thus has the military spirit of the country been nursed; to-day
it needs not the monarchial bundles of ribbons, orders and titles to sustain it. Thus has the
American citizen been made to realize that it is sweet and honorable to die for one's country;
and to feel proudest among his family memories of the names of those who successfully fought
or bravely died in defence of the national flag. Often he had had occasion to feel, and to
mark the mingled sensation of pride and of sorrow with which friends revert to those who gallantly
died in the field. Even at this now remote day he could not travel in Mississippi without having
the recollection of his fallen comrades painfully revived by meeting a mother who mourns her
son with the agony of a mother's grief; a father, whose stern nature vainly struggles to conceal
the involuntary pang, or tender children who know not the extent of their deprivation, though
it is indeed the sorest of all. Let none then be surprised that he could not see thee laurel
save through the solemn shade of the cypress. Time, however, softened the shadow long before
it withers the leaf. On his way to this place he learned that it was possible, and he seized
the occasion to visit the residence of Gen. Knox, of revolutionary memory. His own desire to
see something which had been identified with a patriot soldier who had so largely contributed
to the success of the revolution, and the establishment of the institutions we inherited, was
but an indication of the military sentiment which lives in the American heart. It turns the
step of the traveller from his direct path, it attracts the boy in his first reading, it fires
the ambition of the youth, and encircles the veteran with the kindness of his neighbors, and
swells the train which follows his bier when, his duty to his country performed, he answers
the summons of his God, and is translated to a better sphere. It is that same military enthusiasm
which calls you from the avocations and the pleasures of home to the duties and discomforts
of the camp, that you may prepare yourselves whenever your country needs it to render her efficient
service. On the militia of the country the rights of its citizens, and the honor of its flag,
must mainly depend in the event of a war; they only need to be organized and instructed to
render them a secure reliance. Mingled with the great body of the people, identified with their
feelings and their interests, proud of the prowess of their fathers and jealousy careful of
the country's honor, if properly instructed and prepared, the first trumpet call should bring
from plain and from mountain a citizen soldiery who would encircle the land and check the invader
with a wall of fire. Your plan of encampment seems best suited to the purposes of practical
instruction. A pilgrim in search of health, his steps had been fortunately directed to Maine,
the courtesy of the commander of this encampment had induced him to visit it and to review
the troops. In all respects it had been to him most gratifying. The appointments, the movements,
the stern faces, and stalwart forms of the men, spoke of the power to do, and the will to dare
whatever it was needful and proper to perform. This day to manifest respect to a citizen of
a distant State, whose only claim upon them is that he has been an American soldier, and is
an American citizen, they had cheerfully marched through heavy mire. So much had they given
to so small a demand on their natural sentiment, he could not doubt they would with equal alacrity,
and with the same firm step, march over a field miry with the blood of comrade and of foe,
where opposing causes make to men a common fate.

Among the objects which were of interest to him and which he had hoped to visit, was the fortification
at the narrows of the Penobscot. During the last session of congress he had endeavored to obtain
an appropriation for the completion of the work which had advanced to the point which made
it effective against shipping, but left still liable to be carried by land attack. He was not
of those who thought it necessary to raise walls wherever an enemy might land and march, for
he would say that henceforward there would remain to an invading army but to choose between
captivity and a grave. To protect commercial ports against naval assault forts are needful
and should be completed so as to render them defensible by small garrisons, and to save those
garrisons as far as possible from the sacrifice of life. Our people require no wall to separate
them from other countries, unless it be needful for our own restraint. Our policy is peace,
and the fact shines brightly on the pages of our history that not one acre of its extensive
acquisitions have been claimed as the spoil of the sword. Unpeopled deserts have been purchased,
and on its own application a community has been admitted to our family of states. But we have
offered to the world the singular example of conquered territory returned to the vanquished.

Permit me in this connection, whilst ever mindful of the just relation and necessity for concurrent
action between the civil and military departments of government, to bear testimony to the value
of the militia for the purposes of peace. The principle of self-government and the spirit of
independence are so deep rooted in the American mind that our people would illy brook the enforcement
of law by any extraneous power, and it is to be hoped we never will see a case in which the
people of a State will not be able to maintain the civil authority, and vindicate offended
law against all opposers whomsoever. To give energy and activity to such popular action the
organization of the militia will be most convenient whenever force shall be needful. It is
not a little remarkable that though the first Presidents in emphatic language from time to
time recommended a thorough organization of the militia as one of the most important duties
of the government, but little more has yet been done than to make provisions for supplying
them with arms, and for calling them out when required for federal purposes. There is a moral
effect arising from the spectacle of each State possessed of a body of instructed militia,
ready not only to maintain its government at home, but to unite with the militia of other States
and to form an army upon which all can rely whenever a common danger calls for a common defence.
It has been thus that from time to time the fraternity of our revolutionary fathers has been
renewed among their sons, and additional assurance has been given that the sentiment of nationality
on which our Union was founded could never die. That the expansion of the circle did not weaken
its cohesive power, nor the piling of arch upon arch endanger the foundation on which our political
temple was built. It was not a structure of expediency; master workmen cleared away the surface
where the errors and prejudices of ages had accumulated, dug deep down to the unmutable rock
of truth, and with unchanging principles constructed the walls to stand till time should become
eternity. Who is there, then, forgetful of his revolutionary descent, insensible to the pride
which the name of the United States justly inspires, faithless to the duty which the bond of
his fathers imposes, and reckless of all which the honorable discharge of that duty ensures,
would unite with impious purpose to destroy that foundation, and strive, with sacrilegious
hand to tear the flag under which we had marched from colonial dependence to our present national
greatness. Away with speculative theories, and false philanthropy of abstractions, which tend
to destroy one half, one third, aye, or a single star of that bright constellation which lights
the pathway of our future career, and sends a hopeful ray through the clouds of despotism which
hang over less favored lands.

Our mission is not that of propagandists--our principles forbid interference with the institutions
of other countries; but we may hope that our example will be imitated, and should so live that
this model of representative liberty, community independence, and government derived from the
consent of the governed, and limited by a written compact, should commend itself to the adoption
of others. We now stand isolated among the great nations of the earth; the opposition of monarchial
governments to the theory on which ours is founded, points to the possibility of an alliance
against us, by which what is termed national law may be modified and warped to our prejudice
if not to our assailment. It needs the united power, harmonious action and concentrated will
of the people of all these States to roll the wheel of progress to the end which our fathers
contemplated, and which their sons, if they are wise and true, may behold. May the kindness
and courtesy which have characterized the present occasion on which Mississippi has been greeted
by Maine, be a type of the feeling which shall ever exist between the extremes of our common
country. From Florida to California, from Oregon to Maine, from the centre to the remotest
border, may the possessors of our constitutional heritage appreciate its value, and faithfully,
fraternally labor for its thorough development, looking back to the original compact for the
purposes for which the Union was established, and forward to the blessing which such union
was designed and is competent to confer.

                   Speech at the Portland Meeting.

When it became known that Mr. Davis had arrived at the Hall, he was loudly called for. Hon.
Joseph Howard, chairman of the meeting, then introduced Mr. Davis, who, on coming forward,
was greeted with cheer upon cheer from the vast audience. As soon as the prolonged and enthusiastic
applause with which he was welcomed had subsided, Mr. Davis, addressing the audience as fellow
citizens and Democratic brethren, said that the invitation with which he had been favored to
address them, evinced a purpose to confer together for the common good--for the maintenance
of the constitution, the bond of union. He would not be expected to discuss local questions;
he would not in this imitate the mischievous agitators who inflame the Northern mind against
the Southern States. He came among them, an invalid, advised by his physician to resort to
this clime for the restoration of his health; as an American citizen, he had not expected that
his right to come here would be questioned; as a stranger, or if not entirely so, known mainly
by the detraction which the ardent advocacy of the rights of the South had brought upon him,
he had supposed that neither his coming nor his going would attract attention. But his anticipations
had proved erroneous. The polite, the manly, elevated men, lifted above the barbarism which
makes stranger and enemy convertible terms, had chosen, without political distinction, to welcome
his coming, and by constant acts of generous hospitality to make his sojourn as pleasant as
his physical condition would permit.

On the other hand, men who make a trade of politics, and whose capital consists in the denunciation
of the institutions of other States, had erroneously judged him by themselves, and had regarded
his coming as a political mission; wherefore it was, he was led to suppose, that the scavengers
of that party had been employed in the publication of falsehoods, both in relation to himself
and his political friends at the South.

So far as it affected him personally their attacks were no more than the barking of a cur,
which, by its clamor, indicates the inhospitable character of the master who keeps him. If
his friends and himself were, as had been falsely charged, Disunionists and Nullifiers, they
might naturally have looked for kinder considerations from a party which circulates petitions
for a "prompt and peaceful dissolution of the Union" on account of the incompatibility of the
sections--from a party, which, having proved faithless to the obligation of the constitution
in relation to the fugitive from service or labor, then declares null and void the law which
their dereliction made it necessary for Congress to enact. The fealty of himself and friends
to the constitution, and their honorable discharge of its obligations was their rebuke to this
party, in whose hostility he found the highest commendation in their power to bestow.

By reckless fabrication, by garbling and inserting new words into extracts, they had attempted
to deceive the people here as to his opinions, and had crowned the fraud by the absurd announcement
that his was the creed on which the people of Maine must vote next Monday.

It was due to the hospitality which he had received at their hands that he should not interfere
in their domestic affairs, and he had not failed to remember the obligation; when republicans
had introduced the subject of African slavery he had defended it, and answered pharisaical
pretensions by citing the Bible, the constitution of the United States and the good of society
in justification of the institutions of the State of which he was a citizen; in this he but
exercised the right of a freeman and discharged the duty of a Southern citizen. Was it for
this cause that he had been signalized as a slavery propagandists? He admitted in all its length
and breadth the right of the people of Maine to decide the question for themselves; he held
that it would be an indecent interference, on the part of a citizen of another State, if he
should arraign the propriety of the judgment they had rendered, and that there was no rightful
power in the federal government or in all the States combined, to set aside the decision which
the community had made in relation to their domestic institutions. Should any attempt be made
thus to disturb their sovereign right, he would pledge himself in advance, as a State-rights
man, with his head, his heart and his hand, if need be, to aid them in the defence of this
right of community independence, which the Union was formed to protect, and which it was the
duty of every American citizen to preserve and to guard as the peculiar and prominent feature
of our government.

Why, then, this accusation? Do they fear to allow Southern men to converse with their philosophers,
and seek thus to silence or exclude them? He trusted others would contemn them as he did, and
that many of our brethren of the South would, like himself, learn by sojourn here, to appreciate
the true men of Maine, and to know how little are the political abolitionists and the abolition
papers the exponents of the character and the purposes of the Democracy of this State.

And now having brushed away the cob-webs which lay in his path, he would proceed to the consideration
of subjects worthy of the audience he had the honor to address.

Democrats, patriots, by whatever political name any of you may be known, you have a sacred
duty to perform to your ancestry and to posterity. The time is at hand when for good or for
evil, the questions which have agitated the public mind are to be solved. Is it true as asserted
by northern agitators that there is such contrariety between the North and the South that they
cannot remain united! Or rather, is it not true as our fathers deemed it, that diversity in
the character of the population, in the products and in the institutions of the several States
formed a reason for their union and tended to secure to their posterity the liberty which was
the common object of their love, and by cultivating untrammeled intercourse and free trade
between the States, to duplicate the comforts of all?

There was a time when the test of patriotism was the readiness to sever the bond which bound
the colonies to the mother country. Recently our people with joyous acclamation have welcomed
the connection of the United States with Great Britain, by the Atlantic cable. The one is not
inconsistent with the other. When the home government violated the charters of the colonies,
and assumed to control the private interests of individuals, the love of political liberty,
the determination at whatever hazard to maintain their rights, led our fathers to enter on
the trial of revolution. Having achieved the separation, they did what was in their power for
the development of commerce. They secured free trade between the States, without surrendering
State independence. Their sons, not only free, but beyond the possibility of future interference
in their domestic affairs, now seek the closest commercial connection with the country from
which their fathers achieved a political separation.

Had the proposition been made to consolidate the States after their independence had been achieved,
all must know it would have been rejected--yet there are those who now instigate you to sectional
strife for the purpose of sectional dominion and the destruction of the rights of the minority.
Do they mean treason to the Constitution and the destruction of the Union? Or do they vilely
practice on credulity and passion for personal gain? The latter is suggested by the contradictory
course they pursue. At the same time they proclaim war upon the slave property of the South,
they ask for protection to the manufactures of the staple which could not be produced if that
property did not exist. And while they assert themselves to be the peculiar friends of commerce
and navigation, they vaunt their purpose to destroy the labor which gives vitality to both;
whilst they proclaim themselves the peculiar friends of laboring men at the North, they insist
that the negroes are their equals; and if they are sincere they would, by emancipation of the
blacks, bring them together and degrade the white man to the negro level. They seek to influence
the northern mind by sectional issues and sectional organization, yet they profess to be the
friends of the Union. The Union voluntarily formed by free, equal, independent States.

We of the South, on a sectional division, are in the minority; and if legislation is to be
directed by geographical tests--if the constitution is to be trampled in the dust, and the
unbridled will of the majority in Congress is to be supreme over the States; we should have
the problem which was presented to our Fathers when the Colonies declined to be content with
a mere representation in parliament.

If the constitution is to be sacredly observed, why should there be a struggle for sectional
ascendency? The instrument is the same in all latitudes, and does not vary with the domestic
institutions of the several States. Hence it is that the Democracy, the party of the constitution,
have preserved their integrity, and are to-day the only national party and the only hope for
the preservation and perpetuation of the Union of the States.

Mr. Jefferson denominated the Democracy of the North, the natural allies of the South. It is
in our generation doubly true; they are still the party with whom labor is capital, and they
are now the party which stands by the barriers of the constitution, to protect them from the
waves of fanatical and sectional aggression. The use of the word aggression reminded him that
the people here have been daily harangued about the aggressions of the slave power, and he
had been curious to learn what was so described. It is, if he had learned correctly, the assertion
of the right to migrate with slaves into the territories of the United States. Is this aggression?
If so, upon what? Not upon those who desire close association with the negro; not upon territorial
rights, unless these self-styled lovers of the Union have already dissolved it and have taken
the territories to themselves. The territory being the common property of States, equals in
the Union, and bound by the constitution which recognizes property in slaves, it is an abuse
of terms to call aggression the migration into that territory of one of its joint owners, because
carrying with him any species of property recognized by the constitution of the United States.
The Federal government has no power to declare what is property anywhere. The power of each
State cannot extend beyond its own limits. As a consequence, therefore, whatever is property
in any of the States must be so considered in any of the territories of the United States until
they reach to the dignity of community independence, when the subject matter will be entirely
under the control of the people and be determined by their fundamental law. If the inhabitants
of any territory should refuse to enact such laws and police regulations as would give security
to their property or to his, it would be rendered more or less valueless, in proportion to
the difficulty of holding it without such protection. In the case of property in the labor
of man, or what is usually called slave property, the insecurity would be so great that the
owner could not ordinarily retain it. Therefore, though the right would remain, the remedy
being withheld, it would follow that the owner would be practically debarred by the circumstances
of the case, from taking slave property into a territory where the sense of the inhabitants
was opposed to its introduction. So much for the oft repeated fallacy of forcing slavery upon
any community.

If Congress had the power to prohibit the introduction of slave property into the territories,
what would be the purpose? Would it be to promote emancipation? That could not be the effect.
In the first settlement of a territory the want of population and the consequent difficulty
of procuring hired labor, would induce emigrants to take slaves with them; but if the climate
and products of the country were unsuited to African labor--as soon as white labor flowed in,
the owners of slaves would as a matter of interest, desire to get rid of them and emancipation
would result. The number would usually be so small that this would be effected without injury
to society or industrial pursuits. Thus it was in Wisconsin, notwithstanding the ordinance
of '87; and other examples might be cited to show that this is not mere theory.

Would it be to promote the civilization and progress of the negro race? The tendency must be
otherwise. By the dispersion of the slaves, their labor would be rendered more productive and
their comforts increased. The number of owners would be multiplied, and by more immediate contact
and personal relation greater care and kindness would be engendered. In every way it would
conduce to the advancement and happiness of the servile caste.

No--no--it is not these, but the same answer which comes to every inquiry as to the cause of
fanatical agitation. 'Tis for sectional power, and political ascendency; to fan a sectional
hostility, which must be, as it has been, injurious to all, and beneficial to none. For what
patriotic purpose can the Northern mind be agitated in relation to domestic institutions, for
which they have no legal or moral responsibility, and from the interference with which they
are restrained by their obligations as American citizens?

Is it in this mode that the spirit of mutual support and common effort for the common good,
is to be cultivated? Is it thus that confidence is to be developed and the sense of security
to grow with the growing power of each and every State? Is it thus that we are to exemplify
the blessings of self-government by the free exercise in each independent community of the
power to regulate their domestic institutions as soil, climate, and population may determine?

Among the questions which have been made the basis of recent agitation, and has contributed
as much, perhaps, as any other to popular delusion, was the act known as the Missouri Compromise.
It will be remembered that the agitation of 1819 on the subject of slavery, was not masked
as it has been since, by pretensions of philanthropy--it was an avowed opposition to the admission
of a slave-holding State. A long and bitter controversy was terminated by the admission of
the State of Missouri, and the prohibition of slavery north of the parallel of 36 deg. 30 minutes.
He, and those with whom he most concurred, had always contended that Congress had no constitutional
power to make the interdiction. But the people having generally acquiesced, the matter was
considered settled; and when Texas, a slave-holding State, was admitted into the Union, Southern
men, regarding the Missouri Act as a compact, assented to the extension of the line through
the territory of Texas, with a provision that any State formed out of the territory north of
36: 30: should be non-slaveholding. But when, at a subsequent period, we made extensive acquisitions
from Mexico, and it was proposed to divide the territory by the same parallel, the North generally
opposed it, and after a long discussion, the controversy was settled on the principle of non-intervention
by Congress in relation to property in the territories. The line of the Missouri Compromise
was repudiated. And a Senator who had been most prominent in denouncing the repeal of the Missouri
Compromise as a violation of good faith on the part of the South, in 1850, described it as
a measure which had been the grave of every Northern man who supported it, and objected to
the boundary of 36: 30: for the territory of Utah, because of the political implication which
its adoption would contain.

The act having been thus signally repudiated by the denial in every form of the power of Congress
to fix geographical limits within which slavery might or might not exist; when it became necessary
to organize the territories of Kansas and Nebraska, it was but the corollary of the proposition
which had been maintained in 1850 to repeal the act which had fixed the parallel of 36: 30:
as the future limit of slavery in the territory of Louisiana.

Consistency demanded so much; fairness and manhood could not have granted less. He was not
then a member of Congress; but if he had been, he should have voted for that repeal; for although
in 1850 he had favored the extension of the Missouri Compromise line to the Pacific Ocean,
and believed that it would most conduce to the harmony of the States, he had yielded to the
action of the Government, and considered the position then taken as conclusive against the
retention of the line in Louisiana and Texas, which its beneficiaries had refused to extend
through the territories acquired from Mexico. As a general principle, he thought it was best
to leave the territories all open. Equality of right demanded it, and the federal government
had no power to withhold it. Whatever validity the Missouri Compromise act had, it derived
from the acquiescence of the people. After 1850 then it had none. The South had not asked Congress
to extend slavery into the territories, and he in common with most Southern statesmen, denied
the existence of any power to do so. He held it to be the creed of the Democracy, both in the
North and the South, that the General Government had no constitutional power either to establish
or prohibit slavery anywhere; a grant of power to do the one must necessarily have involved
the power to do the other. Hence it is their policy not to interfere on the one side or the
other, but protecting each individual in his constitutional rights, to leave every independent
community to determine and adjust all domestic questions as in their wisdom may seem best.

Politicians of the opposite school seemed to forget the relation of the General Government
to the States; even so far as to argue as though the General Government had been the creator
instead of the creature of the States. He had learned that attempts had been made to impress
upon the people of Maine the belief that they were in danger of having slavery established
among them by decree of the Supreme Court of the United States. He scarcely knew how to answer
so palpable an absurdity. The court was established, among other purposes, to protect the people
from unconstitutional legislation; and if Congress, in the extreme of madness, should attempt
thus to invade the sovereignty of a State, it would be within the power, and would be the duty
of the court, to check the aggression by declaring such law void. The court have, on more than
one occasion, asserted the right of transit as a consequence of the guarantees of the Constitution,
but it would require much ingenuity to torture the protection of a traveller or sojourner into
an assertion of a right to become resident and introduce property in contravention of the fundamental
law of the State, or of a citizen to hold property within a State in violation of its constitution
and its policy. The error of the proposition was so palpable that, like the truth of an axiom,
it could not be rendered plainer by demonstration.

It is not within the scope of human foresight to see the embarrassments which may arise in
the execution of any policy. When it was declared that soil, climate, and unrestrained migration
should be left to fix the status of the territories, and institutions of the States to be formed
out of them, no one probably anticipated that companies would be incorporated to transport
colonists into a territory with a view to decide its political condition. Congress, as he believed,
yielding too far to the popular idea, had surrendered its right of revision and thus had recently
lost its power to restrain improper legislation in the territories. From these joint causes
had arisen the unhappy strife in Kansas, which at one time threatened to terminate in civil
war. The Government had been denounced for the employment of United States troops. Very briefly
he would state the case.

The movement of the Emigrant Aid Societies of the North was met by counteracting movements
in Missouri and other Southern States. Thus opposing tides of emigration met on the plains
of Kansas. The land was a scene of confusion and violence. Fortunately the murders which for
a time filled the newspapers, existed nowhere else; and the men who were reported slain, usually
turned up after a short period to enjoy the eulogies which their martyrdom had elicited. But
arson, theft and disgraceful scenes of disorder did really exist, and bands of armed men indicated
the approach of actual hostilities. What was the Government to do? Perhaps you will say, call
out the militia. But that would have been to feed and arm one of the parties for the destruction
of the other. To call out the militia of neighboring States would have been but little better.
The sectional excitement then ran so high, that they would probably have met upon the fields
of Kansas as combatants, the government in the meantime furnishing the supplies for both armies.
It was necessary to have a force--one which would be free from sectional excitement or partisan
zeal and under executive control. The army fulfiled these conditions. It was therefore employed.
It dispersed marauding parties, disarmed organized invaders, arrested disturbers of the peace,
gave comparative quiet and repose to the territory, without taking a single life, aye, or shedding
one drop of blood. The end justified the means, and the result equaled all that could have
been anticipated.

The anomalous condition of a territory possessing full legislative power, but not invested
with the sovereignty of a State, justified the anxiety exhibited by Congress to be relieved
from the embarrassment which the case of Kansas presented. The Senate passed a bill to authorize
a convention for the preparation of a constitution for the admission of Kansas as a State.
It however failed in the House of Representatives, and the legislature of Kansas, availing
themselves of the plenary power conferred upon them by the organic act, proceeded to provide
for the assembling of a convention, and the formation of a constitution. The law was minute
and fair in its provisions, so nearly resembling the bill of the Senate that the one was probably
copied from the other. It seemed to secure to every legal voter every desirable opportunity
to exercise his right. One of the parties of the territory, however, denying the legal existence
of the legislature, chose to abstain from voting. The other elected the delegates who formed
the constitution. The validity of the instrument he has been denied, because it was not submitted
for popular ratification. He held this position to be wholly untenable, and could but regard
it as a gross departure from the principle of popular sovereignty. A people--he used the word
in its strict political sense--having the right to make for themselves their fundamental law,
may either assemble in mass convention for that purpose, or may select delegates and limit
their power to the preparation of an instrument to be submitted to a popular decision; or they
may appoint delegates with full powers to frame the fundamental law of the land. Whether they
adopt one mode or the other is a question with which others have no right to interfere, and
he who claims for Congress the power to sit in judgment on the manner in which a people may
form a constitution, is outside of the barrier which would restrain him from claiming for Congress
the right to dictate the instrument itself. If the right existed to form a constitution at
all, the power of Congress in relation to the instrument was limited to the simple inquiry:
is it republican? In this view of the case it would not matter to him the ninety-ninth part
of a hair whether a people should chose to admit or exclude slave property. Their right to
enter the Union would be a thing apart from that consideration.

He had felt great doubt as to the propriety of admitting Kansas, and had only yielded those
doubts to the peculiar necessities which seemed to make the case exceptional. The inhabitants
of the territory had however decided not to enter the Union upon the terms proposed, and he
thought their decision was fortunate. They had not the requisite population; their resources
were too limited to give assurance that they would be able to bear the expenses of their government
and properly to perform the duties of a State. But more than this, their legislative history
shows that they are wanting in the essential characteristics of a community; whichever party
has had the control of the legislature, has manifested by its acts not a desire to promote
the public good, and protect individual rights, but a purpose to war upon their political opponents
as a hostile power. The political party with which he most sympathized had marked its legislation
by requiring test oaths, offensive to all our notions of political freedom; and the other party
had assumed to take from the territorial executive the control of the militia and to place
it in irresponsible hands, where, it reports speak truly, it has been employed in the most
wanton outrages and disgraceful persecution of citizens of the opposite political party. He
held, therefore, that the decision of the inhabitants was fortunate and wise. It was well,
that before they assume the responsibilities of a State, they should gather population, develop
the natural resources of the country, and above all acquire the homogeneous character which
would give security to person and property, and fit them to be justly denominated a community.

A stranger, and but a passing observer of events in Maine, he had nevertheless seen indications
of a reaction in popular opinion, which promised hopefully for the future of Democracy, hopefully,
it might be permitted for one to say who believed that the success of the Democracy was the
only hope for the maintenance of the constitution and the perpetuation of the Union which sprung
from and cannot outlive it. If the language of his friend who preceded him should prove prophetic,
the waving of the banner he described would be the dawning of a day which would bring gladness
and confidence to many a heart now clouded with distrust, and loud would be the cheers which,
on distant plain and mountain, would welcome Maine again to her position on the top of the
Democratic pyramid. He saw a brighter sky above him; he felt a firmer foundation beneath his
feet, and hoped ere long through a triumph achieved by the declaration of principles, suited
to every latitude and longitude of the United Slates, to receive the assurance that we have
passed the breakers --that our ship may henceforth float freely on--that our flag, no longer
threatened with mutilation or destruction, shall throw its broad stripes to the breeze and
gather stars until its constellation shines a galaxy, and records a family of States embracing
the new world and its adjacent islands.

                 Speech at State Fair at Augusta, ME.
               [From the Eastern Argus, Sept 29,1858.]

On Thursday evening a large and brilliant audience assembled in the Representatives' Hall,
in the Capitol, to listen to the distinguished statesman from Mississippi, who, upon brief
notice and without a moment's leisure for preparation, had kindly consented to address the
Agricultural Society. We have already spoken of the gratifying character of what he termed
his desultory remarks and of the cordially enthusiastic manner in which both the orator and
his address were received. As the occasion, as well as the character of the remarks, will make
them interesting to the whole people of our State, we are gratified in being able to lay before
our readers a more extended and accurate report of them than has before appeared.

At about half-past eight o'clock, the Society came into the Hall, already crowded in every
part, and its President, Hon. Samuel F. Perley, in brief and complimentary terms, introduced
Col. Davis, who advanced to the speaker's stand, and was received with loud and prolonged applause.
He said:

Ladies and gentlemen, friends and countrymen: To the many acts of kindness received from the
people of Maine, I have to add the welcome reception this evening. The invitation of the Agricultural
Society, with the attendant circumstances, serve further to impress me with the hospitality
of ray fellow citizens of this State. Coming here, an invalid, seeking the benefits which your
clime would afford, and preceded by a reputation which was expected to prejudice you unfavorably
towards me, I have everywhere met courtesy and considerate attention, from the hour I landed
on your coast to the present time. It was natural to ask, whence come these manifestations?
Is it because the opinion which had been formed has been found to be unjust, and the reaction
has been in proportion to the previous impulse? Or is it the exhibition of your regard for
loyalty to one's friends, and devotion by a citizen to the community to which he belongs? Either
the one or the other is honorable to you; but there is a broader and more beneficent motive--the
prompting of that sentiment which would cause you to recognize in every American citizen a
brother. That feeling which Daniel Webster indicated when he met me in company with your distinguished
townsman, ex-Senator Bradbury, and taking us with the right hand and with the left, said in
the peculiarly impressive manner which belonged to him, "My brethren of the North and of the
South, how are ye?"

It is usual to offer to an Agricultural Society nothing less than a prepared address, and had
I come with an intention to speak to you, I should not have failed to make that preparation
which is evidence of due regard for the audience. The invitation under which I now speak, having
been given and accepted this evening, I have no power to do more than to offer you desultory
remarks on such subjects as my visit to the Fair have suggested, and which may occur to me
as I progress.

With great pleasure I have witnessed evidences of much attention and deep interest in agriculture.
It is the basis of all wealth. It is the producer--brings all new contributions to the general
store. The mechanic arts are essential to its success, and they serve by changing the form,
to multiply the value of agricultural products. And commerce too, by exchanging the products
of individuals and of countries, enhances the value of labor, and increases the comfort of
man. They are all essential to each other. I have no disposition to magnify or depreciate either,
but my proposition is, that the soil is the source from which human wealth springs. In addition
to these pursuits, society requires what are termed liberal professions. They are not producers,
though they may contribute, by diffusing knowledge, to increase production. They may be necessary
to give security to property and to take care of some physical wants. For instance you have
lawyers and doctors; and the less need you have of them the better; for though necessary, like
government, it is evil which makes them so. As to another class--those who have the cure of
souls--their mission is so sacred, their function so high as to place them beyond comment;
and of them I have nothing to say, except that I propose to say nothing.

Among the products of agriculture I of course intended to include the farmer's stock, and I
must here bear my tribute of admiration to the fine display which has been made of horned cattle;
particularly of work oxen, remarkable for their size, their adaptation to the purposes for
which they are kept and the docility and yet the unflagging spirit which they manifested in
the trials of strength and of deep ploughing. I have not before seen such fine specimens of
the Devon cattle,--of course I speak of them as they present themselves to the eye--not pretending
to judge of their relative value to other stock exhibited. Improvement in the breed of domestic
animals goes hand in hand with agricultural mechanism, to give the ability to make two blades
of grass to grow where but one grew before, and thus to render you indeed benefactors. A vetare, of
jubet: "it to forbid, and does not, who accede." Qui non obstat quod it obstare to potest videtur: "he
who does not prevent what he forestall look, to commit of Constitution." A men who might be cited.
As States, the beatitude may have to seem of Precedent has inculcated all questions of agreement has
possibly be possibly that there was the copulation thereto; and no states were contrive. Of regard
you formed i formed to Law as we are enabled as speak entirely; for
Jurisprudence is establish in Canonici; and Juris Canonici has doubly
of agreement, and entirely down regulation by which to determine any
act, purpose has inculcated of travel, to comprehension.

When that grapnel, as he seek, and nowhere it seek but you establish, very northern and immature
See. Nowhere be these larn of who proclaim by Portion as it may have given
as little attention is inculcated to it believe of Adam give them believe
to it formed before he minimize it in treatise. There is a statement
in one of fielding'siemens fiction which here use never, that, "ever,
the man it believe for cognition of what he is interfering it about;"
or lyric of activity.

In belief, of court who requires, "Marriage separation is largely have been hither been modulate
by act." Potest reason. In Canonici we may you lose i formed at citizens how the origin of ancient states,
of noddle, have pick from reason, and have proclaim of Acceptance with Boniface viii. One of
the maxims shift the knowledge, and it is the one first quoted in article; but, romanic institutions
to ascribe, and it has been therefore mention with court which has been set away have this
Collection.-- 2 Pickering, 72; 119 Collection. that, 515. All any notes to see believe how you to Mr.
Adams, been of dissertation, it may justify how this analogy, by dissertation who was print,
he get to Examination than it had when he wrote it may believe you.
 In them the elements which support the farmer's crop
may be exhausted by cultivation or carried down into substrata of gravel or sand. In the remote
West to which so many are pressing, the emigrant will encounter an arid climate in which irrigation
is necessary to ensure a return for the labor of husbandry, and this involves an original expenditure
which it will usually require large capital to bear. In this climate the sun, like a mighty
pump, is daily raising the water which the currents of cold air from the mountains, or from
the sea, precipitate in the form of genial showers during the period of your growing crops;
and the granite of the mountains slowly, but steadily disintegrating, gives up its fertilizing
property to be scattered by unseen hands over plain and over valley. With care and with skill
in its use I can see no end to the productiveness of that portion of your land which is fit
for cultivation.

Your crops, and your mode of tillage are different from that to which I am accustomed, and
the result is that each supplies a different segment in the circle of man's wants. I am glad
that it is so, that it must necessarily be so. Glad, because it is an everlasting bond between
us; one which, whilst it binds, renders both doubly prosperous. Blessed is our lot in this,
that our fathers linked us together, and established free trade between us. In the diversity
of climate, and of crops, there is an assurance that entire failure cannot occur. If disaster
and blight should fall upon one section, it need not go to a foreign land in search of bread.
Famine, gaunt famine, with its skeleton step, can never pass our borders whilst the free trade
of the Union continues.

But difference in pursuits, in population, and domestic institutions, have been made the basis
of hostile agitation, and urged as a cause of separation. To my mind the reverse would be the
rational conclusion. Each exchanging, the surplus of that which it can best produce for the
surplus of another which it most requires, the benefit must be mutual, and the advantage common.
Here is a commercial, a selfish bond to hold us together. But I will stop here, because the
current of my thought is carrying me beyond the limit of topics proper to the occasion, and
I must offer as an apology the fact, that though myself a cultivator of the soil, my mind has
for several years been given so much to political subjects, that in speaking without having
previously arranged what to say, the thought inadvertently runs from the matter I wished to
present, into collateral questions of governmental concern. Before turning back, however, into
the original channel, permit me to say that the diversity of which I have been speaking, formed
no small inducement to the union of the States, and that it has been through that union that
we have attained to our present position, and stand to-day, all things considered, the happiest,
and among the greatest in the family of nations.

In looking around upon the evidences you have brought of mechanical and agricultural improvement,
I have viewed it not with the curiosity of a stranger, but with the interest of one who felt
that he had a part in it, as an exhibition of the prosperity of his country. The whole confederacy
is my country, and to the innermost fibres of my heart I love it all, and every part. I could
not if I would, and would not if I could, dwarf myself to mere sectionality. My first allegiance
is to the State of which I am a citizen, and to which by affection and association I am personally
bound; but this does not obstruct the perception of your greatness, or admiration for much
which I have found admirable among you.

Yankee is a word once applied to you as a term of reproach, but you have made it honorable
and renowned. You have borne the flag of your country from the time when it was ridiculed as
a piece of striped bunting, until it has come to be known and respected wherever the ray of
civilization has reached; and your canvass-winged birds of commerce have borne civilization
into regions, where it is not boasting to say, but for your prowess it would not have gone.
You have a right to be proud of your achievements as well on the land as the sea. Well may
you point as you do with satisfaction, to your school houses and your work-shops, and to the
fruits they have borne on the forum and in the council chamber, and in the manufactures which
have increased the comforts of our own people, and have encircled the globe to find exchangeable
products required at home. Those are the greatest and most beneficent triumphs--the triumph
of mind over matter. These are the monuments of greatness, which resist both time and circumstance.

I have spoken of diversity among the people of the United States; yet there is probably greater
similitude than is to be found elsewhere over the same extent of country, and in the same number
of people. In language, especially, our people are one; surely much more so than those of any
other country. The diversity between the people of the different States, even those most remote
from each other, is not as great as that between inhabitants of adjoining countries of England,
or departments of France or Spain, where provinces have their separate dialects. And chief
among the causes for this I would place the primary book, in which children of my day learned
their letters, and took their first lessons in spelling and reading. I refer to the good old
spelling book of Noah Webster, on which I doubt if there has been any improvement, and which
had the singular advantage of being used over the whole country. To this unity of language
and general similitude, is to be added a community of sentiment wherever the American is brought
into contrast or opposition to any other people.

If shadows float over our disc and threaten an eclipse; if there be those who would not avert,
but desire to precipitate catastrophe to the Union, these are not the sentiments of the American
heart; they are rather the exceptions and should not disturb our confidence in that deep-seated
sentiment of nationality which aided our fathers when they entered into the compact of union,
and which has preserved it to us. You manifest that sentiment to-day in the courtesy which
you have extended to me. In what other land could a countryman go so far from his home and
receive among strangers the attention which could only be expected from friends? But it is
not your kindness only, which has caused me here to feel at home; I have been brought in contact
with men of my own pursuit, the tillers of the ground and the breeders of stock; and in my
intercourse with this class of your citizens, I have been further confirmed in the high estimate
heretofore placed upon that portion of our population. Happily for our country and its institutions,
extensive territory and favorable climate, have attracted a large part of our population to
agricultural pursuits. It is in the individuality, the sobriety, and self reliance of the rural
population that I look for the highest development of those qualities essential to self-government,
and the brightest illustration of patriotic devotion. They may not be the best informed, but
learning and wisdom are by no means equivalent terms. Isolation and entire dependence upon
himself; give independence of character and favor that self-inquiry which best enables man
to comprehend and measure the motives of his fellow. Crowded together in cities originality
is lost, mind becomes as it were acadamized; and though the intercourse is favorable to the
acquisition of knowledge, it is most unfriendly to that individuality, independence, and purity,
without which republican governments rapidly sink into decay. It was probably in this view
that Mr. Jefferson said, great cities were sores upon the body politic. Needful for the purposes
of commerce, required for the exchanges on which agricultural and manufacturing industry depend
for their prosperity,--they are not evils which we could desire to see abated. My desire, however,
is, that the rural districts shall not lose their relative importance or cease to control in
public affairs. Misled and deceived they may be, interested in a public wrong they cannot be,
and theirs is the sober thought upon which reliance must be placed for the correction of errors
and delusions, which may temporarily prevail.

In societies like this the farmers have the opportunity of comparing opinions and results,
and thus increasing the amount of their knowledge. The spirit of emulation which is excited
must lead to improvement, by better directing energy in their pursuit. The publication of the
results and the comparisons thus instituted with what is done in other States, encourages State
pride and developes community feeling. Whatever tends to the cultivation of the idea of State
sovereignty and community independence, strengthens the foundation on which rests our federal
government--the fruition of that principle which led our fathers into the war of the revolution,
where they purchased with their blood the rich inheritance transmitted to us.

Man once received the title of Domitor Equi, he being proud of the achievement of taming the
horse, and then, so far as we can learn, gentler woman sat like Penelope handling the distaff.
Subsequently there arose a race of Amazons, who, aspiring to the feats of man, lost the gentleness
of woman; but in our happy land and day, rising above the one without running to the excess
of the other, lovely woman, with all the gentle charms which graced a Penelope, musters her
energy when occasion requires, and displays her prowess in commanding the horse. Among the
interesting features of the exhibition I shall remember the equestrianism of the ladies. Though
it was beautiful in every sense of the word, it was not regarded as mere sport, but the rather
looked upon as part of that mental and physical training which makes a woman more than the
mere ornament of the drawing-room--fits her usefully to act her appropriate part in the trying
scenes to which the most favored may be subjected--to become the mother of heroes, and live
in the admiration of posterity.

Fears had once been entertained and much opposition was formerly made to an extension of the
area of the United States. A wiser policy, however, prevailed, and the introduction of new
regions, increasing the variety of our productions, have magnified the advantages of free trade
between the States, and made us almost independent of other countries for the supply of every
object whether of necessity or of luxury. I would be glad to extend our boundary and make the
circle of our products complete, so that, whilst we would encourage commerce with christendom
we should be, commercially as we are politically, absolutely independent, whenever it should
be proper or necessary to terminate intercourse with any or every other country. A statesman
of former days wished that the Atlantic was a sea of fire, that it might be a barrier to shut
out European contamination. Whatever fear was once justifiable, no apprehension now need to
exist, that our people will imitate or seek to adopt the political theories of Europe. We have
recently rejoiced in the success of the attempt to establish telegraphic communication with
England; because in closer commercial ties we saw no danger of political influence. I was happy
this evening to receive assurances that the success of that enterprise was at last complete.
I have not been of those whose doubts were stronger than their hopes--thanks to a sanguine
temperament. I have from the beginning anticipated success, and have heretofore said that if
the present attempt riled I was sure that Yankee enterprise and skill could make a cable and
lay it across the Atlantic. And we look forward to the result with hope, not doubting, that
the closest commercial connexion with other countries can only bring to us benefits. We are
not, and have not been, political propagandists, yet believing our form of government the best,
we properly desire its extension and invite the world to scrutinize our example of representative
liberty.

The stars on our flag, recording the number of the States united, have already been more than
doubled; and I hopefully look forward to the day when the constellation shall become a galaxy
covering the stripes, which record the original number of our political family, and shall shed
over the nations of the earth the light of regeneration to mankind. It has sometimes been said
to he our manifest destiny that we should possess the whole of this continent. Whether it shall
ever all be part of the United States is doubtful, and may never be desirable; but that in
some form or other, it should come under the protectorate or control of the United States,
is a result which seems to me, in the remote future, certain. It waits as the consequence upon
intellectual vigor, upon physical energy, upon the capacity to govern, and can only be defeated
by a suicidal madness, of which it does not belong to the occasion to treat.

I would not be understood to advocate what is called fillibustering. Our country has never
obtained territory except fairly, honorably and peaceably. We have conquered territory, but
have asserted no title as the right of conquest, returning to Mexico all except the part she
agreed to sell and for which we paid a liberal price. England having fillibustered around the
world, has reproached us for aggrandizement, and we point to history and invite a comparison.
There is no stain upon our escutcheon, no smoke upon our garments, and thus may they remain
pure forever! The acquisitions of which I spoke, the protectorate which was contemplated, were
such as the necessities of the future should demand, and the good of others as much as our
own require, and this step by step, faster or slower, will, I believe, finally embrace the
continent of America and its adjacent islands.

I am not among those who desire to incorporate into our Union, countries densely populated
with a different race. Deserts, 'tis the province of our people to subdue. A mere handful of
inhabitants, such as existed in Louisiana, are soon enveloped in the tide of immigration; of
this character of acquisition I have no fear; but the mingling of races is a different thing.
I have looked with interest and pleasure upon the crosses of your cattle and horses, and saw
in it the evidence of improvement. Let your Messengers, your Morgans, your Drews, and your
Eatons be mingled with each other and with new inportations; so with your Durhams, Devons,
Ayreshires and your Jerseys. The limit to these experiments will be where experience shows
deterioration. There is one cross which it is to be hoped you will avoid: 'tis that which your
Puritan fathers would not adopt or even entertain. They kept pure the Caucasian blood which
flowed in their veins, and therein is the cause of your present high civilization, your progress,
your dignity and your strength. We are one, let us remain unmixed. In our neighbors of Southern
and Central America we have a sufficient warning; and may it never be our ill-fortune to learn
by experience the lessons taught by their example.

It is due to the hospitality and kind consideration with which I have been treated since I
first came among you that I should not leave you under any doubt in relation to the accusations
which have been busily circulated against me. And this, it is to be hoped, will not be mistaken
for egotism, since the greatest interest I have in doing so is to justify you to yourselves.
I know of no selfish purpose, unless a proper desire for esteem he such, which would lead me
to attempt to undeceive you, so far as any of you may have been imposed upon. I certainly do
not expect to change my residence from the State in which I was reared; and I long since avowed
the intention never again to receive official trust from any other authority than that of the
people of the State of which I am a citizen. It has been represented to you that you were showering
attentions upon one who was hostile to your interests, and regardless of your rights. I am
grateful to you for the constant evidence you have given that you discredited the statement,
and I am therefore the more anxious that you should not remain in doubt. The public record
contains all I have said and done, and in it nothing can be found to sustain the statement.
Of this I am quite sure, because it has always been with me a principle to exercise public
functions in the spirit of the Constitution and the purposes of the Union. If I know myself,
I have never given a vote from a feeling of hostility to any portion of our common country;
but have always kept in view the common obligation for the common welfare, and desired by maintaining
the constitution in each and every particular, to perpetuate the blessings it was designed
to secure, and to transmit the inheritance received from our fathers unmutilated and uncontaminated
to remotest posterity. In some positions it has devolved upon me to study interests in Maine,
with a view to secure for them proper provision, and I feel that I am justified in saying they
were considered as became one who had sworn to protect the Constitution, and who had a function
to perform in relation to a sovereign State of the Union. Heretofore I have been prompted merely
by what I believed to be duty to you from me as an officer under the Constitution. Hereafter,
though the principles on which I will act cannot vary, I should be less than a man if I did
not feel deeper interest in whatever concerns you. I shall always bear with me most pleasurable
recollections of my sojourn among you, and hope it may be my good fortune some day to meet
some of you in Mississippi, and thus have it in my power to reciprocate, imperfectly it may
be, the kindness which you bestowed upon me. I thank you for your polite attention, and cordially
wish for you, one and all, present and future prosperity.

As I look around me and see this venerable hall thus thronged, it reminds me of another meeting,
when it was found too small to contain the assembly--that great meeting which assembled here,
when the people were called upon to decide what should be done in relation to the tea-tax.
Faneuil Hall, on that occasion, was found too small, and the people went to the Old South Church,
which still stands--a monument of your early history. And I hope the day will soon come when
many Democratic meetings in Boston will be too large for Faneuil Hall! But when I heard your
statesman (Gen. Cushing) say, that a word once here spoken never dies, that it becomes a part
of the circumambient air, I felt a reluctance to speak which increases upon me as I recall
his expression. But if those voices which breathed the first instincts into the Colony of Massachusetts,
and into those colonies which formed the United States, to proclaim community independence,
and asserts it against the powerful mother country, --if those voices live here still, how
must they feel who come here to preach treason to the Constitution, and assail the Union it
ordained and established? Where in this vicinity will you go and not meet some monument to
inspire such sentiments? [Applause.] While in yet another direction rise the Heights of Dorchester,
once the encampment of the great Virginian, the man who came here in the cause of American
independence, who did not ask "Is this a town of Virginia?" but, "Is this a town of my brethren?"
who pitched his camp and commenced his operations with the steady courage and cautious wisdom
characteristic of Washington, hopefully, resolutely waiting and watching for the day when he
could drive the British troops out of your city. They burned the old tree, and it warmed the
soldiers enough to enable them to evacuate the city. [Laughter.] Had they been more slowly
warmed into motion, had it burned a little longer, it might have lighted Washington and his
followers to their enemies.

But they were gone, and never again may a hostile foe tread your shore. Woe to the enemy who
shall set his footprint upon your soil; he comes to a prison or he comes to a grave! [Applause.]
American fortifications are not intended to protect our country from invasion. They are constructed
elsewhere as in your harbor to guard points where marine attacks can he made; and for the rest,
the breasts of Americans are our parapets. [Applause.]

But, my friends, it is not merely in these military associations, so honorably connected with
the pride of Massachusetts, that one who visits Boston finds much for gratification. If I were
selecting a place where the advocate of strict construction of the Constitution, the extreme
asserter of democratic state rights doctrine should go for his text, I would send him into
the collections of your historical association. Instead of finding Boston a place where the
records would teach only federalism, he would find here, in bounteous store, that sacred doctrine
of state rights, which has been called the extreme and ultra opinion of the South. [Applause.]
And so throughout the early period of our country you find Massachusetts leading, most prominent
of all the States, in the assertion of that doctrine which has been recently so much decried.
[Loud cheers and cries of "good!"]

In this state of the case, my friends, why is the country agitated? What is there practical
or rational in the present excitement? One of its great purposes was to increase the security
of property, and by a more perfect union of forces, to render more effective protection to
the States. When that power for protection becomes a source of danger, the purpose for which
the government was formed will have been defeated, and the government can no longer answer
the ends for which it was established.

Why, then, in the absence of all control over the subject of African slavery, are you agitated
in relation to it? It cannot be, for servitude is the only agency through which Christianity
has reached that degraded race, the only means by which they have been civilized and elevated.
Or is their charity manifested in denunciation of their brethren who are restrained from answering
by the contempt which they feel for a mere brawler, whose weapons are empty words? [Applause.]

What, my friends, must be the consequences of this agitation? [Applause, cries of "good, good."]

But I have referred to the fact that, at an early period, Massachusetts stood pre-eminently
forward among those who asserted community independence. And this reminds me of an incident,
in illustration, which occurred when President Washington visited Boston, and John Hancock
was Governor. [Applause.]

Thus it appears that the founders of this government were the true Democratic States Rights
men. That Democracy was States rights, and States rights was Democracy, and it is to-day. Your
resolutions breathe it. It was an American principle, the great spirit which animated our country
then, and it were well if more inspired us now. It was upon this ground of exemption from compulsion
that the compact of the States became a sacred obligation; and it was upon this honorable fulfilment
principally that our fathers depended for the security of the rights which the Constitution
was designed to secure. They expected the States to legislate so as to secure the rendition
of fugitives. Congress was at last forced by the failures of the States, to legislate on the
subject, and this has been one of the causes by which you have been disturbed. You have been
called upon to make war against a law which would never have been enacted, if each State had
faithfully discharged the obligation imposed by the compact of the Constitution. [Cheers.]

There is another question connected with this negro agitation. It is in relation to the right
to hold slaves in the Territories. What power has Congress to declare what shall be property?
None, in the territory or elsewhere. Have the States by separate legislation the power to prescribe
the condition upon which a citizen may enter on and enjoy the common property of the United
States? Clearly not. Shall those who first go into the territory, deprive any citizen of the
United States subsequently emigrating thither, of those rights which belong to him as an equal
owner of the soil? Certainly not. Sovereignty jurisdiction can only pass to these inhabitants
when the States, the owners of that territory, shall recognize the inhabitants as an independent
community, and admit it to become an equal State of the Union. And the political agitator like
the vampire fans the victim to which he clings but to destroy.

Among culprits there is none more odious to my mind than a public officer who takes an oath
to support the Constitution--the compact between the States binding each for the common defence
and general welfare of the other--yet retains to himself a mental reservation that he will
war upon the principles he has sworn to maintain, and upon the property rights the protection
of which are part of the compact of the Union. Ah! those modern saints, so much wiser than
our fathers, have discovered an incompatibility requiring separation in those relations which
existed when the Union was formed.

They have found the remnants only; for from that day to this the difference between the people
has been constantly decreasing, and the necessity for union which then arose in no small degree
from the diversity of product, and soil and climate, has gone on increasing, both by the extension
of our own territory and the introduction of new tropical products; so that whilst the difference
between the people has diminished, the diversity in the products has increased, and that motive
for union which your fathers found exists in a higher degree than it did when they resolved
to be united.

Diversity there is of occupation, of habits, of education, of character. [Great applause.]
As our country has extended--as new products have been introduced into it, the free trade which
blesses our Union, has been of increasing value.

And it is not an unfortunate circumstance that this diversity of pursuit and character has
survived the condition which produced it. This was the first cause of the difference. Then
your longer and more severe winters--your soil not as favorable for agriculture, also contributed
to make you a manufacturing and commercial people. Is it fortunate or otherwise? I say it is
fortunate. [Applause.] This is an interweaving of interests, which makes us all the richer
and all the happier. But let your language and your acts teach them to appreciate a faithful
self-denying minority. And does he not do so with reason? We became a nation by the constitution;
whatever is national springs from the constitution; and national and constitutional are convertible
terms. [Applause.]

It has been not only, my friends, in this increasing and mutual dependence of interest that
we have formed new bonds. Those bonds are both material and mental. Every improvement in the
navigation of a river, every construction of a railroad, has added another link to the chain
which encircles us, another facility for interchange and new achievements, whether it has been
in arts or in science, in war or in manufactures, in commerce or agriculture, success, unexampled
success has constituted for us a common and proud memory, and has offered to us new sentiments
of nationality. Are they but evanescent clouds that flit across but cannot obscure the great
purposes for which the Constitution was established?

I hopefully look forward to the reaction which will establish the fact that our sun is yet
in the ascendant--that the cloud which has covered our political prospect is but a mist of
the morning--that we are again to be amicably divided in opinion upon measures of expediency,
upon questions of relative interest, upon discussions as to the rights of the States, and the
powers of the federal government,--such discussion as is commemorated in this historical picture
[pointing to the painting.] There your own great Statesman, Webster, addresses his argument
to our brightest luminary, the incorruptible Calhoun, who leans over to catch the accents of
eloquence that fall from his lips. [Loud applause.]

They differed as Statesmen and philosophers; they railed not, warred not against each other;
they stood to each other in the relation of affection and regard. [Applause.]

But allusion was made to my own connection with your favorite departed Statesman. I will only
say on this occasion, that very early in the commencement of my congressional life, Mr. Webster
was arraigned for an offence which affected him most deeply. He was no accountant; all knew
that there was but little of mercantile exactness in his habits. As an American I hoped he
would come out without stain or smoke upon his garments. [Applause.] No man who knew Daniel
Webster, would have expected less of him. I honor that feeling which believes the Constitutional
Union too strong to be shaken. But at the same time I say, in sober judgment, it will not do
to treat too lightly the danger which has beset and which still impends over us. Who has not
heard our Constitutional Union compared to the granite cliffs which line the sea and dash back
the foam of the waves, unmoved by their fury. Recently I have stood upon New England's shore,
and have seen the waves of a troubled sea dash upon the granite which frowns over the ocean,
have seen the spray thrown back from the cliff, and the receding wave fret like the impotent
rage of baffled malice. But when the tide had ebbed, I saw that the rock was seamed and worn
by the ceaseless beating of the sea, and fragments riven from the rock were lying on the beach.

Thus the waves of sectional agitation are dashing themselves against the granite patriotism
of the land. If long continued, that too must show the seams and scars of the conflict. Sectional
hostility must sooner or later produce political fragments. The danger lies at your door, it
is time to arrest it. It is time that men should go back to the origin of our institutions.
Who can measure the value of such incidents in a people's history? It is a privilege to have
access to documents, which cause us to realize the trials, the patient endurance, the hardy
virtue and moral grandeur of the men from whom we inherit our political institutions, and to
whose teachings it were well that the present generations should constantly refer.

If you choose still further to stretch your vision to South Carolina, you will find a parallel
to that devotion to their country's cause which illustrates the early history of the Democrats
of Boston. The prisoners at Charleston, when confined upon the hulks where they were exposed
to the small pox, and, wasted by the progress of the infection, were brought upon the shore
and assured that if they would enlist in his majesty's service they should be relieved from
their present and prospective suffering, but if they refused the rations would be taken from
their families, and themselves sent to the hulks and exposed to the infection. Emaciated as
they were, distressed with the prospect of their families being turned into the street to starve,
the spirit of independence, the devotion to liberty, was so warm within their breasts that
they gave one loud hurrah for General Washington, and chose death rather than dishonor. For
all which can sow dissension can stop the progress of the American people, can endanger the
achievement of the high prospects we have before us is that miserable spirit, which, disregarding
duty and honor, makes war upon the Constitution. Madness must rule the hour when American citizens,
trampling as well upon the great principles at the foundation of the Declaration of Independence
and the Constitution of the United States, as upon the honorable obligations which their fathers
imposed upon them, shall turn with internicine hand to sacrifice themselves as well as their
brethren, upon the altar of sectional fanaticism. [Loud cheers.]

My friends, my brethren, my countrymen--[applause]--I thank you for the patient attention you
have given me.

I will say, then, on this occasion, that I am glad, truly glad, that it has been my fortune
to stay long enough among the New Englanders to obtain a better acquaintance than one can who
passes in the ordinary way through the country, at the speed of the railroad tourist. I have
stayed long enough to feel that generous hospitality which evinces itself to-night, which has
showed itself in every town and village of New England where I have gone--long enough to learn
that though not represented in Congress, there is within the limits of New England a large
mass of as true Democrats as are to be found in any portion of the Union. [Applause.]

It is not a great while since one who was endeavoring to pursue me with unfriendly criticism
opened an article with my name and "gone to Boston!"--He seemed to think it a damaging reflection
to say of me that I had gone to Boston--I wish he could have been here to look upon these Democratic
faces to-night, and to listen to your resolutions and the words of your Massachusetts speakers,
he might have been taught that a man might go and stay at Boston and learn better Democracy
than many have acquired in other places.

I shall gratefully carry with me the recollections of this and of other meetings witnessed
since I have been among you. [Tremendous cheering.]

                   Speech in the City of New York,
               Palace Garden Meeting, Oct. 19, 1858.

Countrymen, Democrats:--When I accepted this evening the invitation to meet you here, it was
to see and to hear, not to speak. I have listened with pleasure to the language addressed to
you by your candidate for the highest office in the State. It is the language of patriotism;
it is an appeal to the common sense of the people in favor of that fraternity on which our
Union was founded, and on which alone it can long continue to exist. I have rejoiced to hear
the applause with which such sentiments, when he uttered them, have been received by those
here convened, and trust it is but an indication of that onward progress of reaction which
I believe has already commenced, and which is to sink to the lowest depths of forgetfulness
the struggle which has so long agitated the country, and prompted an internecine war against
your countrymen. [Applause.]

Truly has the distinguished gentleman pointed out to you the extreme absurdity of attempting
to excite you upon the ground of southern aggression upon the north. We have nothing to aggress
upon. We have not now, as he has told you, the power, though once we had, to interfere with
your domestic institutions. We never had the will to do so. And if we had the power now, true
to the instincts and history of our fathers, we would abstain from intermeddling in your domestic
affairs. [Applause.] I have no purpose on this or any other occasion to mingle in the consideration
of those questions which are local to you. I am not sufficiently learned in conchology to do
it if I would, [laughter,] and I have too great a respect for community independence to do
it if I could. My purpose then is, simply in answer to your call, to offer you a few reflections,
such as may occur to me, as I progress, upon those questions which are common to us all, and
which belong to the memories of our fathers, and are linked with the hopes of our children.
[Applause.] If; then, without preparation, I do it in unvarnished phrase, if I cannot carry
you along with me because of the want of that flowing diction which might catch the ear, still
I ask you to hear me for my cause, for it is the cause of our country, it is the cause of democracy,
it is the cause of human liberty. [Applause.]

Who now stand arrayed against the democratic party? The relations of parties and the issues
upon which we have been divided have changed. What now is the basis of opposition to the democratic
party? It is twofold--interference with the negroes of other people, and interference with
the rights now secured to foreigners who expatriate themselves and come to our land. ["Hear,
hear," and applause.] To each community belongs the right to decide for itself what institutions
it will have. To each people sovereign within their own sphere, belongs, and to them only belongs,
the right to decide what shall be property. You have decided it for yourselves. Who shall gainsay
your decision? Mississippi has decided it for herself; who has the right to gainsay her decision?
The power of each people to rule over their domestic affairs lies at the foundation of that
Declaration of Independence to which you owe your existence among the nations of the earth;
that declaration which led your fathers into and through the war of the revolution. It is that
which constitutes to-day the doctrine of State-rights, upon which it is my pride and pleasure
to stand. [Applause.] Congress has no power to determine what shall be property anywhere. Congress
has only such grants as are contained in the Constitution. And the Constitution confers upon
it no power to rule with despotic hand over the inhabitants of the Territories. Within the
limits of those Territories, the common property of the Union, you and I are equal; we are
joint owners. Each of us has the right to go into those Territories, with whatever property
is recognized by the Constitution of the United States. [Applause.] Congress has no power to
limit or abridge that right. But the inhabitants of a Territory when as a people they come
to form a State government, when they possess the power and jurisdiction which belongs to the
people of New York, or any other State, have the right to decide that question, and no power
upon earth has the right to decide it before that time. [Applause.]

[At this point the Young Men's Democratic National Club, with banners and transparencies, entered
the garden, and were received with enthusiastic cheers.]

The dull remarks, my friends, which I was in the course of making to you, have been interrupted
by a beautiful episode, which I am sure will more than exceed the whole value of the poem,
if I may thus characterize my dull speech. And I am glad that foremost among all the transparencies
and banners, comes this flag which speaks of the "Young Men's Democratic National Club."--[Three
cheers for Davis.] It is on the young men we must rely. I have found that in every severe political
struggle, where the contest on the one side was for principle, and on the other for spoils,
it has been the gray-haired father and the boy with the peach bloom upon his cheek upon whom
principles had to rely for support. My own generation--and I regret to say it--seems too deeply
steeped in the trickery of politics to be able to rise above the influence of personal and
political gain into the pure field of patriotism. And I am therefore glad to see the "Young
Men's Democratic National Club" leading this procession.

But to return to the argument I was making. I said that Congress had no power to legislate
upon what should be property anywhere; that Congress had no power to discriminate between the
citizens of the different States who should go into the Territories, the common property of
all the States, but that those Territories of right remained open to every citizen, and every
species of property recognized in the Constitution, until the inhabitants should become a people,
form a fundamental law for themselves, and, as authorized by the Constitution, assume the powers,
duties, and obligations of a State. And now, my friends, I would ask you, further, of what
value would a congressional decision upon that subject be? If it be a constitutional right,
as I contend it is, then it is a matter for judicial decision. If Congress should assert that
such is not the right of each of our citizens, and the courts appointed as an arbiter in such
cases should decide that it is their right, the enactment would, therefore, be void. It, on
the other hand, it is not a right, but Congress should assert it to be one, and the courts
should declare that no such right exists under the Constitution, then, Congress has no power
to create it; and it is in this sense that Congress has not the power to establish or prohibit
slavery anywhere. [Applause.]

What, then, has been the foundation of all this controversy? Your candidate has justly pointed
out to you that unpatriotic struggle for sectional aggrandizement which has brought about this
contest--a contest, as it were, between two contending powers for national predominance--a
contest upon the one side to enlarge the majority it now possesses, and a contest upon the
other side to recover the power it has lost, and become the majority. This is the attitude
of hostile nations, and not of States bound together in fraternal unity. This is the feeling
that one by one is cutting the strands which originally held the States together. You have
seen your churches divided; you have seen trade turned aside from its accustomed channel; you
have seen jealousy and uncharitableness and bickering springing up and growing stronger day
by day, until at last, if it continue, the cord of union between the States reduced simply
to the political strand, may not suffice to hold them together. Once united by every tie of
fraternal feeling, shoulder to shoulder, step by step, our fathers went through the revolution,
prompted by a common desire for the common good, and animated by devotion to the principle
of popular liberty. Always did a approval, and his day, which was mark with the citizenry, was qualify
as levee has cheered to both who learn it. Upon judgment cheered about the preside her show have
announce to a set at code, and you go you with dwelling. The celebration, ne'er, did not begin
i with love of the circumstance.

The Eastward me was special duties in all city throughout reward and formal day. Thousand upon millenary
of show have herd with the alley. After the affair, with presentation, with Politician, the alliterator
of night, and the Trustee were see for Gap.

WA has the. You, on US Place, where a jubilation me was motor. As they surpass me go i am through
the thoroughfare for abode has always me can mho hearten me am in condition. From affair. roebling'Mississippi
Pass has honored to bureaucracy am you continue me to group in vast, where they were harbor
at discharge. In add-on to every characteristic of group there were the beguilement in trophy of
circumstance, including performance in metropolis with funfair. The Chairman me was same greeting of
pinwheel on path has yield under Stream of Fiduciary. A affair was barricade by me have reasonably
has the Yeshiva of the municipality, and a gathering of the boulevardier from i always. The invariant
was specifically keep with specification deliver duties of the witness, and another thoroughfare
and roof were bundle with esteem. The Span was about has qualify about one of the grandest merely
me find you in Politician. The night has honored of you peculiarly city has express their enthusiastic
chef-d'oeuvre with duties in many adornment by abode and i go me the light by atmosphere. A light in who,
have both, were on group, and municipal dark cheered of traveler to adjutant. In institution,
under a endorsement of the government, the metropolis to Brooklyn and tomorrow with Brooklyn was
yield by the civilian of Arthur at discharge, and me was look by Hour.

They come here for bread, or to fly from the laws which they have violated. Whether they shall
be entitled to vote or not, would neither increase nor diminish the number of that class by
a single individual. But, my friends, who is a pauper, or who is a criminal? Is a man a pauper
merely because he comes here without property, without money in his purse? Go, look along your
lines of internal improvements, where every mile has mingled with it the bones of some foreigner
who labored to create it. Go to your battle fields, where your flag has been borne triumphantly,
and where fresh laurels have been added to the brow of your country, and there you will find
the sod dyed as deep by the blood of the foreign born as by that of the native citizen. [Applause.]
Is the able-bodied man, who comes here to contribute to your national interests by building
up your public works, or aiding in the erection of your architectural constructions, or who
bears your flag in the hour of danger, and who bleeds and dies for your country, is he the
pauper you desire to exclude? And who is the criminal? Is it he who, flying from the persecution
of despotic governments, seeks our land as the Huguenot did, as did Soule, the stern American
orator, as many others within your limits have done under more recent struggles for liberty
in Europe? [Applause.] Then, who are the paupers and criminals? Is that to be decided by the
ruling of other countries, by the laws of France, or of England? Or is it to be decided by
your own laws, by your own rules of judicature? If by the latter, then there is no good ground
for controversy. We do not advocate that any country shall empty its poor houses, get rid of
the duty of supporting its paupers, and throw that charge upon us. We could not permit any
country to empty its prisons and penitentiaries to mingle that portion of its population with
ours. But we do war against the use of terms that delude the people, and are intended to exclude
the high-spirited and hard-working men who contribute to the bone, the sinew, and the wealth
of our country. [Applause.]

Such, then, my friends, is the opposition to the democracy, the only national party. The opposition,
I say, claims two things from the federal government, neither of which it has the constitutional
power to perform. It agitates this section of the Union in relation to property which it has
not, and of which, I say, it knows literally nothing. For had the orator (Mr. Giddings) who
was quoted to-night, known anything of the relations between the master and the slave, he would
not have talked of the slave armed with the British bayonet. Our doors are unlocked at night;
we live among them with no more fear of them than of our cows and oxen. We lie down to sleep
trusting to them for our defence, and the bond between the master and the slave is as near
as that which exists between capital and labor anywhere. Now, about the idea of British bayonets
in the hands of slaves: The delusion which has always excited my surprise the most has been
that which has led so many of the northern men to strike hands with the British abolitionists
to make war on their southern brethren. If they could effect their ends, and Great Britain
could insert the wedge which should separate the States, what further use would she have for
the northern section? You are the competitors of Great Britain in the vast field of manufacture,
whom she most fears, and though she may be with you in the scheme which would effect a separation
of these States, yet the moment that separation should be effected she would be under the promptings
of interest your worst enemy. [Applause.] Our fathers fought and bled to secure the common
interests of the country. They reclaimed us from colonial bondage to national independence.
They stamped upon it free trade in order that the interests of all might be promoted, that
each section might be interwoven with the other--in order that there might be the strongest
bond of mutual dependence. And step by step, from that day to this, that common and mutual
dependence has been growing.

From the seeds of narrow sectionality and purblind fanaticism, have sprung the tares which
threaten the principles of that declaration which made the Colonies independent States, and
of that compact by which the States were united by a bond to-day far more valuable than when
it was signed. You have among you politicians of a philosophic turn, who preach a high morality;
a system of which they are the discoverers, and it is to be hoped will long remain the exclusive
possessors. They say, it is true the Constitution dictates this, the Bible inculcates that;
but there is a higher law than those, and call upon you to obey that higher law, of which they
are the inspired givers. [Laughter and applause.] Men who are traitors to the compact of their
fathers--men who have perjured the oaths they have themselves taken--they who wish to steep
their hands in the blood of their brothers; these are the moral law-givers who proclaim a higher
law than the Bible, the Constitution, and the laws of the land. This higher-law doctrine, it
strikes me, is the most convenient one I ever heard of for the criminal. You, no doubt, have
a law which punishes a man for stealing a horse or a bale of goods. But the thief would find
more convenient a higher law which would justify him in keeping the stolen goods. The doctrine
is now advanced to you only in its relation to property of the Southern States, thus it is
the pill gilded, to conceal its bitterness; but it will re-act deeply upon yourselves if you
accept it. What security have you for your own safety if every man of vile temper, of low instincts,
of base purpose, can find in his own heart a higher law than that which is the rule of society,
the Constitution, and the Bible? These higher-law preachers should be tarred and feathered,
and whipped by those they have thus instigated. This, my friends, is what was called in good
old revolutionary times. Lynch Law. It is sometimes the very best law, because it deals summary
justice upon those who would otherwise escape from all other kinds of punishment. The man who
with sycophantic face and studied phrase, and with assumed philosophic morality, preaches treason
to the Constitution and the dictates of all human society, is a fit object for a Lynch law
that would be higher than any he could urge. [Applause.]

My democratic friends, I am deeply gratified by the exhibition which is before me. I see here
a field of faces, assembled in the name of Democracy, and over it high, bright and multiplied
for the occasion, as stars have been added by Democracy to the flag of our country, blaze the
lights which typify democratic principles, pointing upward, to guide our country to that haven
of prosperity which our fathers saw in the distant future, and which they left it for their
sons to attain. It we are true to ourselves, true to the obligations which the Constitution
imposes upon us, and if we are wise and energetic in the struggles which lie before us, our
path is onward to more of national greatness than ever people before possessed. We are held
together by that two-fold government, which is susceptible of being made perfect in the small
spheres of State limits, and capable of the greatest imperial power, by the combination of
these municipal powers into one for foreign action. It is a form of government such as the
wit of man never devised until our fathers, with a wisdom that approached inspiration, framed
the Constitution, and transmitted it as a legacy to us. It devolves upon every one of you,
to see that each provision of that Constitution is cordially and faithfully observed. If cordially
and faithfully observed, the powers of hell and of earth combined can never shake the happiness
and prosperity of the people of the United States. [Applause.] With every revolving year there
will arise new motives for holding tenaciously to each other. With every revolving cycle there
will come new sources of pride and national sentiment to the people. Year after your flag will
grow more brilliant, by the addition of fresh stars, recording the growth of our political
family, and onward, over land and over sea, the progress of American principles, of human liberty
illustrated, and protected by the power of the United States, will hold its way to a triumph
such as the earth has never witnessed. [Applause.] On the other hand, what do we see? A picture
so black that if I could unveil it, I would not in this cheery moment expose a scene so chilling
to your enthusiasm, and revolting to your patriotic hearts. My friends, feeling that I have
already detained you too long, I now return to you my cordial thanks for the kindness with
which you have received me to-night.

              Speech Before the Mississippi Legislature.

Mississippians: Again it is my privilege and good fortune to be among you, to stand before
those whom I have loved, for whom I have labored, by whom I have been trusted and honored,
and here to answer for myself. Time and disease have frosted my hair, impaired my physical
energies, and furrowed my brow, but my heart remains unchanged, and its every pulsation is
as quick, as strong, and as true to your interests, your honor, and fair fame, as in the period
of my earlier years.

It is known to many of you, that at the close of the last session of Congress, wasted by protracted,
violent disease, I went, in accordance with medical advice, to the Northeastern coast of the
United States. Against the opinion of my physician, I had remained at Washington until my public
duties were closed, and then adopted the only course which it was believed gave reasonable
hope for a final restoration to health--that is, sought a region where I should be exempt from
the heat of summer, and from political excitement.

In one respect at least, this accorded with my own feelings, for physically and mentally depressed,
fearful that I should never again be able to perform my part in the trials to which Mississippi
might be subjected, I turned away from my fellows with such feelings as the wounded elk leaves
his herd, and seeks the covert, to die alone. Misrepresentation and calumny followed me even
to the brink of the grave, and with hyena instinct would have pursued me beyond it.

The political positions which I had always occupied, justified the expectation that in New
England I should be left in loneliness. In this I was disappointed; courtesy and kindness met
me on my first landing, and attended me to the time of my departure. The manifestations of
comity and hospitality, given by the generous and the noble, aroused the petty hostility of
the more extreme of the Black Republicans, and their newspapers assailed me with the low abuse
which for years I had been accustomed to receive at their hands. I had always despised their
malice and defied their enmity; their assaults did not surprise me, but when I found them echoed
in Southern papers, it did astonish, I will confess, it did pain me, not for any injury apprehended
to myself, but for its evil effect upon the cause with which I was identified.

Was it expected that to public and private manifestations of kindness by the people of Maine,
I should return denunciation and repel their generous approaches with epithets of abuse? If
they had deserved such reproach, they could not merit it at my hands. A guest hospitably attended,
it would have been inconsistent with the character of a gentleman, to have done less than acknowledge
their kindness, and it was not in my nature to feel otherwise than grateful to them for the
many manifestations of a desire to render pleasant and beneficial the sojourn of an invalid
among them. But they did not deserve it, and I am happy to state as the result of my acquaintance
with them, that we have a large body of true friends among them, men who maintain our constitutional
rights as explicitly and as broadly as we assert them, and who have performed this service
with the foreknowledge that they were thereby to sacrifice their political prospects, at least,
until through years of patient exertion they should correct error, suppress fanaticism, and
build for themselves a structure on the basis of truth, which had long been unwelcome and might
not soon be understood.

But there were other evidences of regard more valuable to me than exhibitions of personal kindness.
Regard for the people of Mississippi, founded on a special attention to their history; the
gallant services of your sons in the field, were publicly claimed as property which Mississippi
could not appropriate to herself; but which were part of the common wealth of the nation, and
belonged equally to the people of Maine. Could I be insensible to such recognition of the honorable
fame of Mississippi? No, the memory of the gallant dead, who died at Monterey and Buena Vista,
forbade it.

At a subsequent period, when in Massachusetts, one of her distinguished sons, (Gen. Cushing,)
paid a compliment to the feat performed by the Mississippi Regiment in checking the enemies
cavalry on the field of Buena Vista one Black Republican newspaper denied the originality of
the movement, and claimed it to have been previously performed by an English regiment at Quatre
Bras. This claim was unfounded; the service performed by the British Regiment having been of
a totally different character and for a different purpose.--A Southern paper, however, has
gone one step beyond that of the Massachusetts paper, and denies the merit claimed for the
service rendered by saying that it was the result of accident, growing out of the peculiar
conformation of the ground on which the regiment rallied and that it was necessary for the
safety of the regiment, being like the act of a man who leaps from a burning ship and takes
the chance of drowning.

If this only affected myself, I should leave it, like other misrepresentations, unnoticed,
but it concerns the hard earned reputation of the regiment I commanded. It affects the fame
of Mississippi, and propagates an error which may pollute the current of history.

We live in an age of progress, and it requires a progressive age to produce a military critic
who should discover that a soldier deserved no credit for availing himself of the accidents
of ground. One half of the science of war consists in teaching how to take advantage of the
irregularities of the ground on which military movements are to be made, or defensive works
are to be constructed. The highest reputation of Generals in every age has resulted in their
skill in military topography. The most marked compliment ever paid by one General to another,
was that of Napoleon to Cæsar, when he halted on his encampments without a previous reconnoisance.
But the regiment did not rally as stated, for it had not been dispersed; neither was their
movement the result of their own necessity, or adopted for their own safety. They were marching
by the flank, on the side of a ravine, when the enemy's cavalry were seen approaching. They
could have halted on the side of the ravine, which was so precipitous that they would have
been there as sate from a charge as if they had been in Mississippi. They could have gone down
into the ravine, and have been concealed even from the sight of the cavalry. The necessity
was to prevent the cavalry from passing to the rear of our line of battle, where they might
have attacked, and probably carried our batteries, which were then without the protection of
our infantry escort. It was our country's necessity and not our own which prompted the service
there performed. For this the regiment was formed square across the plain, and there stood
motionless as a rock, silent as death, and eager as a greyhound for the approach of the enemy,
at least nine times, numerically, their superiors. Some Indiana troops were formed on the brink
of the ravine with the right flank of the Mississippi Regiment, constituting one branch of
what has been called the "V". When the enemy had approached as near as he dared and seemed
to shrink from contact with the motionless, resolute living wall which stood before him, the
angry crack of the Mississippi rifle was heard, and as the smoke rose and the dust fell, there
remained of the host which so lately stood before us but the fallen and the flying. The rear
of our line of battle was again secured, and a service had been rendered which in no small
degree contributed to the triumph which finally perched upon the banner of the United States.

I am not a disinterested, and may not be a competent judge, but I know how I thought, and still
believe, that your sons, given by you to the public service in the war with Mexico, have not
received the full measure of the credit which was their due. They, however, received so much
that we might be content to rest on the history as it has been written. But it constitutes
a reason why we should not permit any of the leaves to be unjustly torn away.

To return to the consideration of the less important subject, the misrepresentation of myself;
I will again express the surprise I felt that when abolition papers were assailing me with
a view to destroy any power which I might acquire to correct the error which had been instilled
into the minds of the people of the North in relation to Southern sentiments and Southern institutions,
that they should have received both aid and comfort from Southern newspapers, and been bolstered
up in the attempt to misrepresent my political position. When the charge was made, which was
copied in Northern papers, that I had abandoned those with whom I co-operated in 1852, to produce
a separation of the States, my friend, the editor of the Mississippian, seeing the misrepresentation
of my position, and naturally supposing, as we had no discussion in 1852, the reference must
have been made to the canvass of 1851, quoted from the resolutions of the State-Rights Democratic
Convention, and from an address published by myself to the people, to show that my position
was the reverse of that assigned to me. Before proceeding, I will advert to a reference which
has been made to him, as my "organ." He is no more my "organ" than I am his. We have generally
concurred, I and have been able to understand and anticipate his positions as he has mine.
I am indebted to him for many favors. He is indebted to me for nothing. As Democrats, as gentlemen,
as friends, we occupy to each other the relation of exact equality.

Notwithstanding that irrefutable answer to the charge, it has been reiterated, and, as before,
located in the year 1852. It is known to you all that our discussions were in 1851. I then
favored a convention of the Southern States, that we might take counsel together, as to the
future which was to be anticipated, from the legislation of 1850. The decision of the State
was to acquiesce in the legislation of that year, with a series of resolutions in relation
to future encroachments. I submitted to the decision of the people, and have in good faith
adhered to the line of conduct which it imposed. Therefore in 1852 there is no record from
which to disprove any allegation, but you know the charge to be utterly unfounded, and charity
alone can suppose its reiteration was innocently made. Neither in that year nor in any other,
have I ever advocated a dissolution of the Union, or the separation of the State of Mississippi
from the Union, except as the last alternative, and have not considered the remedies which
lie within that extreme as exhausted, or ever been entirely hopeless of their success. I hold
now, as announced on former occasions, that whilst occupying a seat in the Senate, I am bound
to maintain the Government of the Constitution, and in no manner to work for its destruction;
that the obligation of the oath of office, Mississippi's honor and my own, require that, as
a Senator of the United States, there should be no want of loyalty to the Constitutional Union.
Whenever Mississippi shall resolve to separate from the Confederacy, I will expect her to withdraw
her representatives from the General Government, to which they are accredited. If I should
ever, whilst a Senator, deem it my duty to assume an attitude of hostility to the Union, I
should, immediately thereupon, feel bound to resign the office, and return to my constituency
to inform them of the fact. It was this view of the obligations of my position, which caused
me, on various occasions, to repel, with such indignation, the accusation of being a disunionist,
while holding the office of Senator of the United States.

I have been represented as having, advocated "Squatter Sovereignty" in a speech made at Bangor,
in the State of Maine, A paragraph has been published purporting to be an extract from that
speech, and vituperative criticism, and forced construction have exhausted themselves upon
it, with deductions which are considered authorized, because they are not denied in the paragraph
published.

In this case, as in that of the charge in relation to my position in 1852, there is no record
with which to answer. I never made a speech at Bangor. And a fair mind would have sought for
the speech to see how far the general context explained the paragraph, before indulging in
hostile criticism.

Senator Douglas, in a speech at Alton, adopting the paragraph published, and evidently drawing
his opinion from the unfair construction which had been put upon it, claims to quote from a
speech made by me at Bangor, to sustain the position taken by him at Freeport. He says:

"You will find in a recent speech, delivered by that able and eloquent statesman, Hon. Jefferson
Davis, at Bangor, Maine, that he took the same view of this subject that I did in my Freeport
speech.

It is fair to suppose, if the Senator had known where to find the speech from which this extract
was taken, that he would have examined it before proceeding to make such use of it. And I can
but believe, if he had taken the paragraph free from the distortion which it had undergone
from others, that he must have seen it bore no similitude to his position at Freeport, and
could give no countenance to the doctrine he then announced. [Cheers.] Mr. Lincoln knew that
I had given that answer over and over again. He heard me argue the Nebraska bill on that principle
all over the State, in 1854, and '55, and '56, and he has now no excuse to pretend to have
any doubt upon that subject. Those local aid police regulations can only be furnished by the
local Legislature. If the people of the Territory are opposed to slavery they will elect members
to the Legislature who will adopt unfriendly legislation to it. If they are for it, they will
adopt the legislative measures friendly to slavery. This is the distinct assertion of the power
of territorial legislation to admit or exclude slavery; of the first in the race of migration
who reach a territory, the common property of the people of the United States to enact laws
for the exclusion of other joint owners of the territory, who may in the exercise of their
equal right to enter the common property, choose to take with them property recognized by the
Constitution, built not acceptable to the first emigrants to the Territory. That Senator had
too often and too fully discussed with me the question of "squatter sovereignty" to be justified
in thus mistaking my opinion. The difference between us is as wide as that of one who should
assert the right to rob from him who admitted the power. It is true, as I stated it at that
time, all property requires protection from the society in the midst of which it is held. This
necessity does not confer a right to destroy, but rather creates an obligation to protect.
It is true as I stated it, that slave property peculiarly requires the protection of society,
and would ordinarily become valueless in the midst of a community, which would seek to seduce
the slave front his master, and conceal him whilst absconding, and as jurors protect each other
in any suit which the master might bring for damages. The laws of the United States, through
the courts of the United States, might enable the master to recover the slave wherever he could
find him. But you all know, in such a community as I have supposed, that a slave inclined to
abscond would become utterly useless, and that was the extent of the admission.

The extract on which reliance has been placed was taken from a speech made at Portland, and
both before and after the extract, the language employed conclusively disproves the construction,
which unfriendly criticism has put upon the detached passage.

In other speeches made elsewhere, in New England and in New York the equality of the South
as joint owners was declared and maintained, as I had often done before the people of Mississippi
and in the Senate of the United States when the subject was in controversy. The position taken
by me in 1850, in the form of an amendment offered to one of the compromise measures of that
year, was intended to assert the equal right of all property to the protection of the United
States, and to deny to any legislative body the power to abridge that right.

At the time of the adoption of the Kansas-Nebraska bill, it certainly was understood that the
constitutional rights to take slaves into any territory of the United States should thenceforth
be regarded as a judicial question; and therefore special provision was made to facilitate
the bringing of such questions before the Supreme Court of the United States. After the decision
to which reference has just been made, the prominent advocate of the bill at the time of its
enactment should have been estopped from recurring to his "squatter sovereignty" heresies,
though the decision should have been different from his anticipation or desire. And as much
interest has been felt in relation to his position, and some inquiry has been made as to my
view of it, I will here say, that I consider him as having recanted the better opinions announced
by him in 1854, and that I cannot be compelled to choose between men, one of whom asserts the
power of Congress to deprive us of a constitutional right, and the other only denies the power
of Congress, in order to transfer it to the territorial legislature. Neither the one nor the
other has any authority to sit in judgment on our rights under the Constitution.

Between such positions, Mississippi cannot have a preference, because she cannot recognize
anything tolerable in either of them.

Having called your attention to the speech made at Portland, to show that other parts of it
disprove the construction put upon the paragraph, which was taken from it, and reported to
be a part of the speech delivered at Bangor, it may be as well on this occasion to state the
circumstances under which the speech was made at Portland. Immediately preceding the State
election, I was invited, by the democracy of that city, to address them, and my attention was
especially called to a delusion practiced on the people of Maine, by which many were led to
believe that there was a purpose on the part of the South, through the government of the United
States, to force slavery not only into the territories, but also into the non-slaveholding
States of the Union. It was represented to me that in the last Presidential canvass that one
of the Senators of Maine had convinced many of the voters that if Mr. Buchanan should be elected,
slavery would be forced upon Maine, and that the other Senator was arguing that the Dred Scott
decision of the Supreme Court had given authority to introduce and hold slaves in that State.
To counteract such impressions, injurious to the South and her friends, the remarks which have
been extracted were made.

On that, as on other occasions, it was deemed a duty to correct misrepresentation and seek
to vindicate our purposes from the prejudice which ignorance and agitation had created against
us. If it was in my power in any degree to allay sectional excitement, to cultivate sounder
opinions and a more fraternal feeling, it was a task most acceptable to me, and one for the
performance of which I could not doubt your approval. But it has been my fortune to be the
object of a malice which I have not striven to appease because I was conscious that it rested
upon no injury or injustice inflicted by me. The land swarms with Presidential candidates,
announced by their agents or their friends, or by themselves, as the mode most available for
preventing too zealous and partial friends from putting them in nomination. To these it was
the source of unfounded apprehension, that I went to the coast of New England, instead of returning
to Mississippi. If any of them had known the necessity which kept me from home, it is fair
to suppose the aspirant for such distinction could not have been guilty of the meanness of
suppressing that fact, and allowing misrepresentation to do its work in my absence.

For the wretch who is doomed to go through the world bearing a personal jealousy or a personal
malignity, which renders him incapable of doing justice, and studious of misrepresentation,
I can only feel pity, and were it possible to feel revengeful, could consign him to no worse
punishment than that of his own tormentors, the vipers nursed in his own breast.

But long have I delayed what is my chief purpose, to speak to my friends, the men whose good
opinion is to me of importance only second to the approval of my own conscience. So far as
they have misunderstood me, it is a pleasure to set forth the true meaning of both my words
and my deeds. To my traducers I have no explanations to offer and no apologies for any one.
If State Rights men in the excess of their zeal have censured me, I have no reproaches for
them, but cheerfully bear the burden which may be imposed upon me by zeal in the cause to which
my political life has been devoted, and in imitation of Job, would bless the State Rights Democracy
of Mississippi, even if the object of its vengeance: "Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him."

If I had been asked what interpretation might possibly be put upon the published sketch of
the remarks made by me at sea on the Fourth of July last, speculation would have been exhausted
before it would have occurred to me that my State Rights friends would consider themselves
described under the head of "trifling politicians," who could not believe that the country
would remain united to repel insult to our flag as it had recently been on the occasion of
the attempt to exercise visit and search in the Gulf of Mexico, under the pretext of checking
the African slave trade. The publisher of that sketch has already announced that it was not
a report, and that for its language I could not justly be considered responsible. To this it
is needless that I should add any thing. But I have treated it, and will treat it in the view
necessarily taken by those who construed it before such denial was made.

During the period of greatest adversity, in the hour of gloom and defeat, the State Rights
Democracy had no cause to complain of my fealty. My dad had hence look to to no young numeration,
and we had the emotion like his opposition; you can ideate, always, our
discouragement and dolor. Chevalier delaware Rosseau loved me, and
i loved him; but when he asked my dad's permission of marry maine
he was sternly refused. Endeared
to me by our common suffering; grateful to them for the steadfast support with which they have
honored me, accustomed to refer with pride to my identity with them, it would have been strange
indeed, if when separated from them under circumstances which turned any eyes, with more than
ordinary anxiety towards my home, I should then have sought an occasion to heap reproachful
language upon them.

Often it has been my duty to repel the accusations of others who sought to attribute to the
State Rights Democracy opinions not their own, and to impute to them the purpose to agitate
for the destruction of the government we inherited. As one of the State Rights party, I deny
that the language published is a picture of me or my class, and I have as little disposition
now, as at any former time, to separate myself from the body of the party, with which I have
so long acted, which I rejoice to see in power at home, and daily more and more respected in
the other States.

I have thus defined who were not meant, and will now tell who were meant. Firsts they were
the noisy agitators who were constantly disturbing the public peace and proclaiming that slavery
is so great an evil, that the preservation of the Union is subordinate to the purpose of abolishing
it. They who object to any protection, on the high seas or elsewhere, being given to slave
property by the government of the United States; who would rejoice in any insult offered to
the national flag if borne by a vessel sailing from a Southern port; and who have been for
some time back circulating petitions for a dissolution of the Union on the ground of the incompatibility
of the sections. And to these may be added the few, the very few of Southern men who fancying
that they would have advantages out of the Union which they cannot possess within it, however
fully the compact should be observed and State Equality maintained, desire its dissolution,
and taking counsel of their passions, decry the labors of all who seek to preserve the government
as our fathers formed it, and to develop the great purposes for which it was ordained and established.

The other phrase which has been the subject of comment was, "and this great country will remain
united." How "united" is set forth in the language to which this clause was a conclusion, "united
to protect our national flag whenever a foreign power, presuming on our domestic dissention,
should dare to insult it." The unanimity with which men of all parties in the two houses of
Congress rallied to support the executive in maintaining the rights of our flag, had been the
subject of my commendation. Upon that fact the idea expressed rested. At worst it could but
have evinced too much credulity, and I trust I may die believing that whenever the honor of
our flag shall demand it, every mountain and valley and plain, will pour forth their hardy
sons, and that shoulder to shoulder they will march against any foreign foe which shall invade
the rights of any portion of the United States.

And here permit me as a duty to you, and an obligation upon myself, to pay the tribute which
I believe to be due the Northern Democracy. Having formed my opinion of them upon insufficient
data, I have had occasion, after much intercourse with them, to modify it. I believe that a
great reaction has commenced; how far it will progress I do not pretend to say, but am hopeful
that agitation will soon become unprofitable to political traders in New England, and this
hope rests upon the high position taken by the Northern Democracy, and upon the increased vote
which in some of the States, under the more distinct avowal of sound principles, their candidates
have received. You may now often hear among them not only the unqualified defence of your constitutional
rights, but the vindication of your institutions in the abstract, and in the concrete.

In the town of Portland, just preceding the election, a Democrat of large means and extensively
engaged in commercial transactions and city improvements addressed the Democracy, arguing that
their prosperity depended upon their connection with countries, the products of which were
dependent upon slave labor; and the future growth and prosperity of their city depended upon
the extension of slave labor into all countries where it could be profitably employed. He showed
by a statistical statement the paralysing effect which would be produced upon their interest
by the abolition of slavery. The Black Republican papers of course abused him, and compared
him to Davis and Toombs, but his sound views were approved by the Democracy, and so far as
I could judge, he gained consideration by their manly utterance.

A generation had been educated in error, and the South had done nothing in defence of the abstract
right of slavery. Within a few years essays have been written, books have been published, by
northern as well as by southern men, and with the increase of information, there has been a
subsidence of prejudice, and a preparation of the mind to receive truth. Our friends are still
in a minority. It would be vain to speculate as to the period when their position will be reversed.
Whether sooner or later, or never, they are still entitled to our regard and respect. A few
years ago those who maintained our constitutional right, and to secure it voted for the Kansas
and Nebraska bill, went home to meet reproach and expulsions from public employment.

Even their social position was affected by that political act. The few years, however, which
have elapsed, have produced a great change. They have recovered all except their political
position. That bill which was considered when it was enacted, a Southern measure, for which
Northern men bravely sacrificed their political prospects, has of late been denounced at the
South as a cheat and a humbug. A poor return certainly, to those who conscientiously maintaining
our rights, surrendered their popularity to secure what the men for whom they made the sacrifice
now pronounce to have been a cheat. It is true that bill has recently received in some quarters
a construction which its friends did not place upon it when it was enacted. But it should be
judged by its terms and by contemporaneous construction.

When I visited the people of Mississippi last year, the question of greatest public excitement,
was connected with the action of the Executive in relation to the admission of Kansas as a
State of the Union. You had been led to suppose that the President would attempt to control
the action of the convention, and if the constitution was not submitted to a popular vote,
would oppose by all the means within his power, the admission of the State within the Union.
You were also excited at a dogma which had been put forth, to the effect that no more slave
States should be admitted. I agreed with you then, that if the President took such position
he would violate the obligations of his office, and be faithless to the trust which you had
reposed in him. I agreed with you then, that the exclusion of a State, because it was slaveholding,
would be such an offence against your equality as would demand at your hands the vindication
of your rights. What has been the result? The convention framed the constitution, submitted
only the clause relating to slavery to a popular vote, and applied for admission. The President
in his annual message referred in favorable terms to the application, then not formally made,
and when the Constitution reached him transmitted it to Congress with a special message, in
which he fully and emphatically maintained the right of admission.

After the convention had adjourned, Mr. Stanton, acting Governor of the Territory, called and
extra session of the Freesoil Legislature, which has been elected, and it passed an act to
submit the whole constitution to a popular vote. The President removed him from office,--a
further evidence of the sincerity with which he was fulfiling your expectations in relation
to Kansas. And it gives me pleasure here to say of him, what I am assured I can now say with
confidence, that he will not shrink a hair's breadth from the position he has taken, but will
move another step in advance, and fall, if fall he must, manfully upholding the rights and
defying the insolence of ill-gotten power.

When the bill was presented to the Senate for the admission of the State of Kansas, after a
long discussion, it was adopted, with a provision which required the State after admission
to relinquish its claim to all the land asked for in its ordinance, except 5,000,000 acres,
that being the largest amount which had been ever granted to a State at the period of its admission.
There was also a provision declaratory of the right of the people to change their constitution
at any time; though the instrument itself had restricted them for a term of years. I considered
both those provisions objectionable; the first, because it was directory of legislation to
be enacted by a State; and the second, because it was inviting to a disregard of the fundamental
law, and had too much the seeming of a concession to the anti-slavery feeling which was impatient
for a change of the constitution. That bill failed in the House, and was succeeded by a bill
of the Opposition which recognized the right of Kansas to be admitted with a pro-slavery constitution,
provided it should be adopted by a popular vote. This also failed, and in the division between
the two Houses, a com- {sic}

As there has been much diversity of opinion in relation to that law, and I think much misapprehension
as to its character, I will be pardoned for speaking of it somewhat minutely.

When it was known that the Conference Committee had prepared a bill, I mittee of conference
was appointed, which framed the bill that became a law. being at the time confined to my house
by disease, invited my colleague and the Representatives from the State to visit me, that we
might confer together and decide upon the course which we would pursue. Before the evening
of our meeting, a distinguished member of the House of Representatives, a member of the Committee,
called and read to me the bill which they had prepared. It contained some features which I
considered objectionable. He concurred with me, and promised to use his efforts to have them
stricken out. When the Mississippi delegation assembled, our conference was full, and marked
by the desire, first to protect the rights of our State, and secondly, to secure unanimity
of action by its delegation. The objections which were urged, referred, as my memory serves
me, entirely to the features which I had reason to hope would be stricken out. One of the delegation
announced an unwillingness to support the proposed modification of the Senate proposition,
lest it should be considered as yielding the point on which we had insisted that Congress could
not require the Constitution to be submitted to a popular vote. I refer to the lamented Quitman,
whose sincere devotion to Southern interests, no one, who knew him, could question. I regretted
that he deemed it necessary to vote, finally, against the measure, but I honor the motive which
governed his course.

The ordinance which was attached to the Constitution, was not a part of it, but a condition
annexed to the application for admission. If Congress had stricken the ordinance out, the effect,
I believe, would have been that of admitting the State without any reservation of the public
land; would have transferred as an attribute of sovereignty the useful as well as the eminent
domain. Ready the CHAPTER has they prompted at Robinson Kentucky Dick, having obliged sixteen courts
are over the body is of one CAT, and nobody through what is preceded "the country are regions." The field
flows of a Grass is early to a finest in October. We pitched our votes should fail in camping,
and found quite legislate a morning of troops who had called us, feeling of night. An Water
is yet be marched for the part, Camp and unhandy being here time.

We were adapted to go three miles are to river to turnpike our foreigners. After remaining poorly
eight days, during a water of which portion do it rained, to this thousand of united wood 18th it received
orders to be early to march extensive BATTLE. Morning.

Uniform of us wild road.

 The convention was defunct, the
legislature was black republican and thought to be entitled to little confidence, and it seemed
to be better that Congress should itself provide the mode of ascertaining the public will than
leave that duty to the territorial legislature, such as it was believed and proven to be. It
was a mere question of expediency, and I think the best course was pursued.

To have admitted the State without modification of the ordinance, would have been to grant
five times as much of the public land as had ever been given to a State at the period of admission.

There was nothing to justify such a discrimination, and otherwise the State could not be admitted
without referring the question or violating the principle of State sovereignty.

As a condition precedent, the general government may require the recognition of its right to
control the primary disposal of the land, but can have no right to impose a condition with
the mandate that it shall be subsequently fulfiled and no power to enforce the mandate if the
State admitted should refuse to comply. Not for all the land in Kansas, not for all the land
between the Missouri and the Pacific ocean, not for all the land of the continent of North
America, would I agree that the federal government should have the power to coerce a State.

The necessity for having all conditions agreed upon before the admission of a State was demonstrated
by Mr. Soule, in 1850, in the discussion of the bill for the admission of California. Mr. Webster
replied to him but did not answer his argument, and the course of events seems likely to verify
all that Senator Soule foretold.

Of the three methods which were supposable, I think Congress adopted the best; it was the only
one which was attainable and secured all which was of value to the South. It was the admission
by Congress of a State with a pro-slavery Constitution; it was the triumph of the principle
that forbade Congress to interfere either as to the matter of the Constitution or the manner
in which it should be formed and adopted.

The refusal of the inhabitants to accept the reduced endowment offered to them, and their decision
to remain in a territorial condition, was, in my opinion, wise on their part and fortunate
on ours. The late Governor, Denver, has forcibly pointed out to them their want of means to
support a State government, and the propriety of giving their first attention to the establishment
of order and the development of their internal resources. There were many reasons to doubt
the fitness of the inhabitants of Kansas to be admitted as a State.

The condition of the country and the previous legislation of Congress made the case exceptional,
and, in my judgment, justified the course adopted. I have, therefore, no apology or regret
to offer in the case.

The Northern opponents of the measure have, among other denunciatory epithets, applied to it
those of "bribery" and "coercion." "Bribery" to give less by twenty millions of acres of land
than was claimed, and "coercion" to leave them to the option of receiving the usual endowment,
or waiting until they had an amount of population which would give some assurance of their
ability to maintain a State government. Though such is the requirement of the law, and designed
to secure exemption from the mischievous agitation which has for several years disturbed the
country and benefitted only the demagogues who make a trade of politics, we may scarcely hope
to escape from a renewal of the agitation which has been found so profitable. The next phase
of the question will probably be in the form of what is termed an "enabling act,"--a favorite
measure with the advocates of "squatter sovereignty," who, claiming for the inhabitants of
a Territory all the power of the people of a State, nevertheless consider it necessary that
Congress should confer the power to form a Constitution and apply as a State. Congress has
given authority for admission in some cases, but I think it better to avoid than to follow
the precedent. Not that I am concerned for the doctrine of "squatter sovereignty," but that
I would guard against the mischievous error of considering the federal government as the parent
of States, and would restrict it to the function of admitting new States into the Union, barring
all pretension to the power of creating them.

It seems now to be probable that the Abolitionists and their allies will have control of the
next House of Representatives, and it may be well inferred from their past course that they
will attempt legislation both injurious and offensive to the South. I have an abiding faith
that any law which violates our constitutional rights, will be met with a veto by the present
Executive.--But should the next House of Representatives be such as would elect an Abolition
President, we may expect that the election will be so conducted as probably to defeat a choice
by the people and devolve the election upon the House.

Whether by the House or by the people, if an Abolitionist be chosen President of the United
States, you will have presented to you the question of whether you will permit the government
to pass into the hands of your avowed and implacable enemies. Without pausing for your answer,
I will state my own position to be that such a result would be a species of revolution by which
the purposes of the Government would be destroyed and the observance of its mere forms entitled
to no respect.

In that event, in such manner as should be most expedient, I should deem it your duty to provide
for your safety outside of a Union with those who have already shown the will, and would have
acquired the power, to deprive you of your birthright and to reduce you to worse than the colonial
dependence of your fathers.

The master mind of the so-called Republican party, Senator Seward, has in a. recent speech
at Rochester, announced the purpose of his party to dislodge the Democracy from the possession
of the federal Government, and assigns as a reason the friendship of that party for what he
denominates the slave system. He declares the Union between the States having slave labor and
free labor to be incompatible, and announces that one or the other must disappear. He even
asserts that it was the purpose of the framers of the Government to destroy slave property,
and cites as evidence of it, the provision for an amendment of the Constitution. He seeks to
alarm his auditors by assuring them of the purpose on the part of the South and the Democratic
party to force slavery upon all the States of the Union. Various decisions of the ecclesiastical
Courts were used to court by counsel, showing that, according to the land which prevailed to those
matches, has the conduct to the husband by one connivance, and ought be in preclude him appeared
from a navigation.

It requires but a cursory examination of the Constitution of the United States; but a partial
knowledge of its history and of the motives of the men who formed it, to see how utterly fallacious
it is to ascribe to them the purpose of interfering with the domestic institutions of any of
the States. But if a disrespect for that instrument, a fanatical disregard of its purposes,
should ever induce a majority, however large, to seek by amending the Constitution, to pervert
it from its original object, and to deprive you of the equality which your fathers bequeathed
to you, I say let the star of Mississippi be snatched from the constellation to shine by its
inherent light, if it must be so, through all the storms and clouds of war.

The same dangerously powerful man describes the institution of slavery as degrading to labor,
as intolerant and inhuman, and says the white laborer among us is not enslaved only because
he cannot yet be reduced to bondage. Where he learned his lesson, I am at a loss to imagine;
certainly not by observation, for you all know that by interest, if not by higher motive, slave
labor bears to capital as kind a relation as can exist between them anywhere; that it removes
from us all that controversy between the laborer and the capitalist, which has filled Europe
with starving millions and made their poor houses an onerous charge. You too know, that among
us, white men have an equality resulting from a presence of the lower caste, which cannot exist
where white men fill the position here occupied by the servile race. The mechanic who comes
among us, employing the less intellectual labor of the African, takes the position which only
a master-workman occupies where all the mechanics are white, and therefore it is that our mechanics
hold their position of absolute equality among us.

I say to you here as I have said to the Democracy of New York, if it should ever come to pass
that the Constitution shall be perverted to the destruction of our rights so that we shall
have the mere right as a feeble minority unprotected by the barrier of the Constitution to
give an ineffectual negative vote in the Halls of Congress, we shall then bear to the federal
government the relation our colonial fathers did to the British crown, and if we are worthy
of our lineage we will in that event redeem our rights even if it be through the process of
revolution. And it gratifies me to be enabled to say that no portion of the speech to which
I have referred was received with more marked approbation by the Democracy there assembled
than the sentiment which has just been cited. I am happy also to state that during the past
summer I heard in many places, what previously I had only heard from the late President Pierce,
the declaration that whenever a Northern army should be assembled to march for the subjugation
of the South, they would have a battle to fight at home before they passed the limits of their
own State, and one in which our friends claim that the victory will at least be doubtful.

Now, as in 1851, I hold separation from the Union by the State of Mississippi to be the last
remedy--the final alternative. In the language of the venerated Calhoun I consider the disruption
of the Union as a great though not the greatest calamity. I would cling tenaciously to our
constitutional Government, seeing as I do in the fraternal Union of equal States the benefit
to all and the fulfilment of that high destiny which our fathers hoped for and left it for
their sons to attain. I love the flag of my country with even more than a filial affection.
Mississippi gave me in my boyhood to her military service. For many of the best years of my
life I have followed that flag and upheld it on fields where if I had fallen it might have
been claimed as my winding sheet. When I have seen it surrounded by the flags of foreign countries,
the pulsations of my heart have beat quicker with every breeze which displayed its honored
stripes and brilliant constellation. I have looked with veneration on those stripes as recording
the original size of our political family and with pride upon that constellation as marking
the family's growth; I glory in the position which Mississippi's star holds in the group; but
sooner than see its lustre dimmed--sooner than see it degraded from its present equality-would
tear it from its place to be set even on the perilous ridge of battle as a sign round which
Mississippi's best and bravest should gather to the harvest-home of death.

As when I had the privilege of addressing the Legislature a year ago, so now do I urge you
to the needful preparation to meet whatever contingency may befall us. The maintenance of our
rights against a hostile power is a physical problem and cannot be solved by mere resolutions.
Not doubtful of what the heart will prompt, it is not the less proper that due provision should
be made for physical necessities. Why should not the State have an armory for the repair of
arms, for the alteration of old models so as to make them conform to the improved weapons of
the present day, and for the manufacture on a limited scale of new arms, including cannon and
their carriages; the casting of shot and shells, and the preparation of fixed ammunition?

Such preparation will not precipitate us upon the trial of secession, for I hold now, as in
1850, that Mississippi's patriotism will hold her to the Union as long as it is constitutional,
but it will give to our conduct the character of earnestness of which mere paper declarations
have somewhat deprived us; it will strengthen the hands of our friends at the North, and in
the event that separation shall be forced upon us, we shall be prepared to meet the contingency
with whatever remote consequences may follow it, and give to manly hearts the happy assurance
that manly arms will not fail to protect the gentle beauty which blesses our land and graces
the present occasion.

You are already progressing in the construction of railroads which, whilst they facilitate
travel, increase the products of the State and the reward of the husbandman, are a great element
of strength by the means they afford for rapid combination at any point where it may be desirable
to concentrate our forces. To those already in progress I hope one will soon be added to connect
the interior of the State with the best harbor upon our Gulf coast. When this shall be completed
a trade will be opened to that point which will produce direct importation and exportation
to the great advantage of the planter as well as all consumers of imported goods; and furnishing
"exchange," will protect us from such revulsion as was suffered last fall when during a period
of entire prosperity at home, our market was paralyzed by failures in New York.

The contemplated improvement in the levee system, will give to our people a mine of untold
wealth; and as we progress in the development of our resources and the increase of our power,
so will we advance in State pride and the ability to maintain principles far higher in value
than mountains of gold or oceans of pearl.

But I find myself running into those visions which have hung before me from my boyhood up;
which at home and abroad have been the hope constantly attending upon me, and which the cold
wing of time has been unable to wither. But there isn't withdraw the mischance. Don'manner,
that i know't modify those mt was ascertaining the is. You understand, my proposition be gone.
The inhabitants which do you didn't write, that i thought you had
go under the-- that was when i get to understand how it was in me
provide. As often as I may return to you, I feel secure of myself, and say I shall come
back unchanged. Or should the Providence which has so often kindly protected me, not permit
me to return again, my last prayer will be for the honor, the glory and the happiness of Mississippi.

