In the back of his mind, Phil had been conscious of that, but it had seemed an insignificant
threat against the excitement arising from the grandiose impudence of the plan, the perhaps
rather small-boyish delight at being able to put something over, profitably, on the greatest
power of all. Even now it might have been only a natural wariness that brought the threat up
for a final moment of reflection. He didn't, of course, want to incur Earth government's disapproval.
But why believe that he might? On all Roye there would be only three who knew--Wayne Jackson,
Celia Adams, and himself. All three would benefit, each in a different way, and all would be
equally responsible for the hoax. No chance of indiscretion or belated qualms there. Their
own interest ruled it out in each case.

And from the other men now involved there was as little danger of betrayal. Their gain would
be vastly greater, but they had correspondingly more to lose. They would take every step required
to insure their protection, and in doing that they would necessarily take the best of care
of Phil Boles.

       *       *       *       *       *

"How did you ever get such a thing smuggled in to Roye?" Phil asked. He'd swallowed half the
drink Celia offered him at a gulp and now, a few minutes later, he was experiencing what might
have been under different circumstances a comfortable glow, but which didn't entirely erase
the awareness of having committed himself at this hour to an irrevocable line of action.

Celia stroked a fluffy lock of red-brown hair back from her forehead and glanced over at him.
She had a narrow, pretty face, marred only by a suggestion of hardness about the mouth--which
was a little more than ordinarily noticeable just now. Phil decided she felt something like
his own tensions, for identical reasons. He was less certain about Major Wayne Jackson, a big,
loose-jointed man with an easy-going smile and a pleasantly self-assured voice. The voice might
be veering a trifle too far to the hearty side; but that was all.

"I didn't," Celia said. "It belonged to Frank. How he got it shipped in with him--or after
him--from Earth I don't know. He never told me. When he died a couple of years ago, I took
it over."

Phil gazed reflectively at the row of unfamiliar instruments covering half the table beside
her. The "camera" which had taken an imprint of the Geest gun in Aunt Beulah's living room
went with that equipment and had become an interior section of the largest of the instruments.
"What do you call it?" he asked.

Celia looked irritated. Jackson laughed, said, "Why not tell him? Phil's feeling like we do--this
is the last chance to look everything over, make sure nobody's slipped up, that nothing can
go wrong. Right, Phil?"

Phil nodded. "Something like that."

Celia chewed her lip. "All right," she said. "It doesn't matter, I suppose--compared with the
other." She tapped one of the instruments. "The set's called a duplicator. This one's around
sixty years old. They're classified as a forgery device, and it's decidedly illegal for a private
person to build one, own one, or use one."

"Why that?"

"Because forgery is ordinarily all they're good for. Frank was one of the best of the boys
in that line before he found he'd been put on an outtransfer list."

Phil frowned. "But if it can duplicate any manufactured object--"

"It can. At an average expense around fifty times higher than it would take to make an ordinary
reproduction without it. A duplicator's no use unless you want a reproduction that's absolutely
indistinguishable from the model."

"I see." Phil was silent a moment. "After sixty years--"

"Don't worry, Phil," Jackson said. "It's in perfect working condition. We checked that on a
number of samples."

"How do you know the copies were really indistinguishable?"

Celia said impatiently, "Because that's the way the thing works. When the Geest gun passed
through the model plate, it was analyzed down to its last little molecule. The duplicate is
now being built up from that analysis. Every fraction of every element used in the original
will show up again exactly. Why do you think the stuff's so expensive?"

       *       *       *

Phil grinned. "All right, I'm convinced. How do we get rid of the inscription?"

"The gadget will handle that," Jackson said. "Crack that edge off, treat the cracked surface
to match the wear of the rest." He smiled. "Makes an Earth forger's life look easy, doesn't it?"

"It is till they hook you," Celia said shortly. She finished her drink, set it on the table,
added, "We've a few questions, too, Phil."

"The original gun," Jackson said. "Mind you, there's no slightest reason to expect an investigation.
But after this starts rolling, our necks will be out just a little until we've got rid of that
particular bit of incriminating evidence."

Phil pursed his lips. "I wouldn't worry about it. Nobody but Beulah ever looks at Uncle William's
collection of oddities. Most of it's complete trash. And probably only she and you and I know
there's a Geest gun among the things--William's cronies all passed away before he did. But
if the gun disappeared now, Beulah would miss it. And that--since Earth government's made it
illegal to possess Geest artifacts--might create attention."

Jackson fingered his chin thoughtfully, said, "Of course, there's always a way to make sure
Beulah didn't kick up a fuss."

Phil hesitated. "Dr. Fitzsimmons gives Beulah another three months at the most," he said. "If
she can stay out of the hospital for even the next eight weeks, he'll consider it some kind
of miracle. That should be early enough to take care of the gun."

"It should be," Jackson said. "However, if there does happen to be an investigation before
that time--"

Phil looked at him, said evenly, "We'd do whatever was necessary. It wouldn't be very agreeable,
but my neck's out just as far as yours."

Celia laughed. "That's the reason we can all feel pretty safe," she observed. "Every last one
of us is completely selfish--and there's no more dependable kind of person than that."

Jackson flushed a little, glanced at Phil, smiled. Phil shrugged. Major Wayne Jackson, native
son, Fort Roye's second in command, was scheduled for the number one spot and a string of promotions
via the transfer of the current commander, Colonel Thayer. Their Earthside associates would
arrange for that as soon as the decision to turn Fort Roye into a Class A military base was
reached. Phil himself could get by with the guaranteed retention of the CLU presidency, and
a membership moving up year by year to the half million mark and beyond--he could get by very,
very comfortably, in fact. While Celia Adams would develop a discreetly firm hold on every
upcoming minor racket, facilitated by iron-clad protection and an enforced lack of all competitors.

"We're all thinking of Roye's future, Celia," Phil said amiably, "each in his own way. And
the future looks pretty bright. In fact, the only possible stumbling block I can still see
is right here on Roye, and it's Honest Silas Thayer. If our colonel covers up the Geest gun
find tomorrow--"

Jackson grinned, shook his head. "Leave that to me, my boy--and to our very distinguished visitors
from Earth. Commissioner Sanford has arranged to be in Thayer's company on Territorial Office
business all day tomorrow. Science Officer Vaughn is dizzy with delight because Ronald Black
and most of the newsgathering troop will inspect his diggings in the ruins in the morning,
with the promise of giving his theories about the vanished natives of Roye a nice spread on
Earth. Black will happen to ask me to accompany the party. Between Black and Sanford--and myself--Colonel
Silas Thayer won't have a chance to suppress the discovery of a Geest gun on Roye until the
military has had a chance to look into it fully. And the only one he can possibly blame for
that will be Science Officer Norm Vaughn--for whom, I'll admit, I feel just a little bit sorry!"

       *       *       *       *       *

First Lieutenant Norman Vaughn was an intense and frustrated young man whose unusually thick
contact lenses and wide mouth gave him some resemblance to a melancholy frog. He suspected,
correctly, that a good Science Officer would not have been transferred from Earth to Roye which
was a planet deficient in scientific problems of any magnitude, and where requisitions for
research purposes were infrequently and grudgingly granted.

The great spiraled ruin on the peninsula of Fort Roye had been Vaughn's one solace. Several
similar deserted structures were known to be on the planet, but this was by far in the best
condition and no doubt the most recently built. To him, if to no one else, it became clear
that the construction had been carried out with conscious plan and purpose, and he gradually
amassed great piles of notes to back up his theory that the vanished builders were of near-human
intelligence. Unfortunately, their bodies appeared to have lacked hard and durable parts, since
nothing that could be construed as their remains was found; and what Lieutenant Vaughn regarded
as undeniable artifacts, on the level of very early Man's work, looked to others like chance
shards and lumps of the tough, shell-like material of which the ruins were composed.

Therefore, while Vaughn was--as Jackson had pointed out--really dizzy with delight when Ronald
Black, that giant of Earth's news media, first indicated an interest in the ruins and his theories
about them, this feeling soon became mixed with acute anxiety. For such a chance surely would
not come again if the visitors remained unconvinced by what he showed them, and what--actually--did
he have to show? In the morning, when the party set out, Vaughn was in a noticeably nervous
frame of mind.

Two hours later, he burst into the anteroom of the base commander's office in Fort Roye, where
the warrant on duty almost failed to recognize him. Lieutenant Vaughn's eyes glittered through
their thick lenses; his face was red and he was grinning from ear to ear. He pounded past the
startled warrant, pulled open the door to the inner office where Colonel Thayer sat with the
visiting Territorial Commissioner, and plunged inside.

"Sir," the warrant heard him quaver breathlessly, "I have the proof--the undeniable proof!
They were intelligent beings. They did not die of disease. They were exterminated in war! They
were ... but see for yourself!" There was a thud as he dropped something on the polished table
top between the commissioner and Colonel Thayer. "That was dug up just now--among their own
artifacts!"

Silas Thayer was on his feet, sucking in his breath for the blast that would hurl his blundering
Science Officer back out of the office. What halted him was an odd, choked exclamation from
Commissioner Sanford. The colonel's gaze flicked over to the visitor, then followed Sanford's
stare to the object on the table.

For an instant, Colonel Thayer froze.

Vaughn was bubbling on. "And, sir, I ..."

"Shut up!" Thayer snapped. He continued immediately, "You say this was found in the diggings
in the ruins?"

"Yes, sir--just now! It's ..."

Lieutenant Vaughn checked himself under the colonel's stare, some dawning comprehension of
the enormous irregularities he'd committed showing in his flushed face. He licked his lips
uncertainly.

"You will excuse me for a moment, sir," Thayer said to Commissioner Sanford. He picked the
Geest gun up gingerly by its unmistakably curved shaft, took it over to the office safe, laid
it inside and relocked the safe. He then left the office.

       *       *       *

In an adjoining room, Thayer rapped out Major Wayne Jackson's code number on a communicator.
He heard a faint click as Jackson's wrist speaker switched on, and said quickly, "Wayne, are
you in a position to speak?"

"I am at the moment," Jackson's voice replied cautiously.

Colonel Thayer said, "Norm Vaughn just crashed in here with something he claims was found in
the diggings. Sanford saw it, and obviously recognized it. We might be able to keep him quiet.
But now some questions. Was that item actually dug up just now?"

"Apparently it was," Jackson said. "I didn't see it happen--I was talking to Black at the moment.
But there are over a dozen witnesses who claim they did see it happen, including five or six
of the news agency men."

"And they knew what it was?"

"Enough of them did."

Thayer cursed softly. "No chance that one of them pitched the thing into the diggings for an
Earthside sensation?"

"I'm afraid not," Jackson said. "It was lying in the sifter after most of the sand and dust
had been blown away."

"Why didn't you call me at once?"

"I've been holding down something like a mutiny here, Silas. Vaughn got away before I could
stop him, but I grounded the other aircars till you could decide what to do. Our visitors don't
like that. Neither do they like the fact that I've put a guard over the section where the find
was made, and haven't let them talk to Norm's work crew.

"Ronald Black and his staff have been fairly reasonable, but there's been considerable mention
of military highhandedness made by the others. This is the first moment I've been free."

"You did the right thing," Thayer said, "but I doubt it will help much now. Can you get hold
of Ronald Black?"

"Yes, he's over there ..."

"Colonel Thayer?" another voice inquired pleasantly a few seconds later.

"Mr. Black," the colonel said carefully, "what occurred in the diggings a short while ago may
turn out to be a matter of great importance."

"That's quite obvious, sir."

"And that being the case," the colonel went on, "do you believe it would be possible to obtain
a gentleman's agreement from all witnesses to make no mention of this apparent discovery until
the information is released through the proper channels? I'm asking for your opinion."

"Colonel Thayer," Ronald Black's voice said, still pleasantly, "my opinion is that the only
way you could keep the matter quiet is to arrest every civilian present, including myself,
and hold us incommunicado. You have your duty, and we have ours. Ours does not include withholding
information from the public which may signal the greatest shift in the conduct of the Geest
War in the past two decades."

"I understand," Thayer said. He was silent for some seconds, and perhaps he, too, was gazing
during that time at a Fort Roye of the future--a Class A military base under his command, with
Earth's great war vessels lined up along the length of the peninsula.

"Mr. Black," he said, "please be so good as to give your colleagues this word from me. I shall
make the most thorough possible investigation of what has occurred and forward a prompt report,
along with any material evidence obtained, to my superiors on Earth. None of you will receive
any other statement from me or from anyone under my command. An attempt to obtain such a statement
will, in fact, result in the arrest of the person or persons involved. Is that clear?"

"Quite clear, Colonel Thayer," Ronald Black said softly. "And entirely satisfactory."

       *       *       *       *       *

"We have known for the past eight weeks," the man named Cranehart said, "that this was not
what it appears to be ... that is, a section of a Geest weapon."

He shoved the object in question across the desk towards Commissioner Sanford and Ronald Black.
Neither of the two attempted to pick it up; they glanced at it, then returned their eyes attentively
to Cranehart's face.

"It is, of course, an excellent copy," Cranehart went on, "produced with a professional forger's
equipment. As I imagine you're aware, that should have made it impossible to distinguish from
the original weapon. However ... there's no real harm in telling you this now ... Geest technology
has taken somewhat different turns than our own. In their weapons they employ traces of certain
elements which we are only beginning to learn to maintain in stable form. That is a matter
your government has kept from public knowledge because we don't wish the Geests to learn from
human prisoners how much information we are gaining from them.

"The instrument which made this copy naturally did not have such elements at its disposal.
So it employed their lower homologues and in that manner successfully produced an almost identical
model. In fact, the only significant difference is that such a gun, if it had been a complete
model, could not possibly have been fired." He smiled briefly. "But that, I think you will
agree, is a significant difference! We knew as soon as the so-called Geest gun was examined
that it could only have been made by human beings."

"Then," Commissioner Sanford said soberly, "its apparent discovery on Roye during our visit
was a deliberate hoax--"

Cranehart nodded. "Of course."

Ronald Black said, "I fail to see why you've kept this quiet. You needn't have given away any
secrets. Meanwhile the wave of public criticism at the government's seeming hesitancy to take
action on the discovery--that is, to rush protection to the threatened Territorial Segments--has
reached almost alarming proportions. You could have stopped it before it began two months ago
with a single announcement."

"Well, yes," Cranehart said. "There were other considerations. Incidentally, Mr. Black, we
are not unappreciative of the fact that the news media under your own control exercised a generous
restraint in the matter."

"For which," Black said dryly, "I am now very thankful."

"As for the others," Cranehart went on, "the government has survived periods of criticism before.
That is not important. The important thing is that the Geest War has been with us for more
than a human life span now ... and it becomes difficult for many to bear in mind that until
its conclusion no acts that might reduce our ability to prosecute it can be tolerated."

Ronald Black said slowly, "So you've been delaying the announcement until you could find out
who was responsible for the hoax."

"We were interested," Cranehart said, "only in the important men--the dangerous men. We don't
care much who else is guilty of what. This, you see, is a matter of expediency, not of justice."
He looked for a moment at the politely questioning, somewhat puzzled faces across the desk,
went on, "When you leave this room, each of you will be conducted to an office where you will
be given certain papers to sign. That is the first step."

       *       *       *

There was silence for some seconds. Ronald Black took a cigarette from a platinum case, tapped
it gently on the desk, put it to his mouth and lit it. Cranehart went on, "It would have been
impossible to unravel this particular conspiracy if the forgery had been immediately exposed.
At that time, no one had taken any obvious action. Then, within a few days--with the discovery
apparently confirmed by our silence--normal maneuverings in industry and finance were observed
to be under way. If a major shift in war policy was pending, if one or more key bases were
to be established in Territorial Segments previously considered beyond the range of Geest reconnaissance
and therefore secure from attack, this would be to somebody's benefit on Earth."

"Isn't it always?" Black murmured.

"Of course. It's a normal procedure, ordinarily of no concern to government. It can be predicted
with considerable accuracy to what group or groups the ultimate advantage in such a situation
will go. But in these past weeks, it became apparent that somebody else was winning out ...
somebody who could have won out only on the basis of careful and extensive preparation for
this very situation.

"That was abnormal, and it was the appearance of an abnormal pattern for which we had been
waiting. We find there are seven men involved. These men will be deprived of the advantage
they have gained."

Ronald Black shook his head, said, "You're making a mistake, Cranehart. I'm signing no papers."

"Nor I," Sanford said thickly.

Cranehart rubbed the side of his nose with a fingertip, said meditatively, "You won't be forced
to. Not directly." He nodded at the window. "On the landing flange out there is an aircar.
It is possible that this aircar will be found wrecked in the mountains some four hundred miles
north of here early tomorrow morning. Naturally, we have a satisfactory story prepared to cover
such an eventuality."

Sanford whitened slowly. He said, "So you'd resort to murder!"

Cranehart was silent for a few seconds. "Mr. Sanford," he said then, "you, as a member of the
Territorial Office, know very well that the Geest War has consumed over four hundred million
human lives to date. That is the circumstance which obliges your government to insist on your
co-operation. I advise you to give it."

"But you have no proof! You have nothing but surmises--"

"Consider this," Cranehart said. "A conspiracy of the type I have described constitutes a capital
offense under present conditions. Are you certain that you would prefer us to continue to look
for proof?"

Ronald Black said in a harsh voice, "And what would the outcome be if we did choose to co-operate?"

"Well, we can't afford to leave men of your type in a position of influence, Mr. Black," Cranehart
said amiably. "And you understand, I'm sure, that it would be entirely too difficult to keep
you under proper surveillance on Earth--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Celia Adams said from outside the cabin door, "I think it is them, Phil. Both cars have started
to circle."

Phil Boles came to the door behind her and looked up. It was early evening--Roye's sun just
down, and a few stars out. The sky above the sea was still light. After a moment, he made out
the two aircars moving in a wide, slow arc far overhead. He glanced at his watch.

"Twenty minutes late," he remarked. "But it couldn't be anyone else. And if they hadn't all
come along, they wouldn't have needed two cars." He hesitated. "We can't tell how they're going
to take this, Celia, but they may have decided already that they could make out better without
us." He nodded towards the edge of the cliff. "Short way over there, and a long drop to the
water! So don't let them surprise you."

She said coldly, "I won't. And I've used guns before this."

"Wouldn't doubt it." Phil reached back behind the door, picked up a flarelight standing beside
a heavy machine rifle, and came outside. He pointed the light at the cars and touched the flash
button briefly three times. After a moment, there were two answering flashes from the leading car.

"So Wayne Jackson's in the front car," Phil said. "Now let's see what they do." He returned
the light to its place behind the door and came out again, standing about twelve feet to one
side of Celia. The aircars vanished inland, came back at treetop level a few minutes later.
One settled down quietly between the cabin and the edge of the cliff, the other following but
dropping to the ground a hundred yards away, where it stopped. Phil glanced over at Celia,
said softly, "Watch that one!" She nodded almost imperceptibly, right hand buried in her jacket
pocket.

The near door of the car before them opened. Major Wayne Jackson, hatless and in hunting clothes,
climbed out, staring at them. He said, "Anyone else here?"

"Just Celia and myself," Phil said.

Jackson turned, spoke into the car and two men, similarly dressed, came out behind him. Phil
recognized Ronald Black and Sanford. The three started over to the cabin, stopped a dozen feet
away.

Jackson said sardonically, "Our five other previous Earthside partners are in the second car.
In spite of your insistence to meet the whole group, they don't want you and Celia to see their
faces. They don't wish to be identifiable." He touched his coat lapel. "They'll hear what we're
saying over this communicator and they could talk to you, but won't unless they feel it's necessary.
You'll have to take my word for it that we're all present."

"That's good enough," Phil said.

"All right," Jackson went on, "now what did you mean by forcing us to take this chance? Let
me make it plain. Colonel Thayer hasn't been accused of collaborating in the Roye gun hoax,
but he got a black eye out of the affair just the same. And don't forget that a planet with
colonial status is technically under martial law, which includes the civilians. If Silas Thayer
can get his hands on the guilty persons, the situation will become a lot more unpleasant than
it already is."

       *       *       *

Phil addressed Ronald Black, "Then how about you two? When you showed up here again on a transfer
list, Thayer must have guessed why."

Black shook his head. "Both of us exercised the privilege of changing our names just prior
to the outtransfer. He doesn't know we're on Roye. We don't intend to let him find out."

Phil asked, "Did you make any arrangements to get out of Roye again?"

"Before leaving Earth?" Black showed his teeth in a humorless smile. "Boles, you have no idea
of how abruptly and completely the government men cut us off from our every resource! We were
given no opportunity to draw up plans to escape from exile, believe me."

Phil glanced over at Celia. "In that case," he said, a little thickly, "we'd better see if
we can't draw some up together immediately."

Jackson asked, staring, "What are you talking about, Phil? Don't think for a moment Silas Thayer
isn't doing what he can to find out who put that trick over on him. I'm not at all sure he
doesn't suspect me. And if he can tie it to us, it's our neck. If you have some crazy idea
of getting off the planet now, let me tell you that for the next few years we can't risk making
a single move! If we stay quiet, we're safe. We--"

"I don't think we'd be safe," Phil said.

On his right, Celia Adams added sharply, "The gentleman in the other car who's just started
to lower that window had better raise it again! If he's got good eyesight, he'll see I have
a gun pointed at him. Yes, that's much better! Go on, Phil."

"Have you both gone out of your minds?" Jackson demanded.

"No," Celia said. She laughed with a sudden shakiness in her tone, added, "Though I don't know
why we haven't! We've thought of the possibility that the rest of you might feel it would be
better if Phil and I weren't around any more, Wayne."

"That's nonsense!" Jackson said.

"Maybe. Anyway, don't try it. You wouldn't be doing yourselves a favor even if it worked. Better
listen now."

"Listen to what?" Jackson demanded exasperatedly. "I'm telling you it will be all right, if
we just don't make any mistakes. The only real pieces of evidence were your duplicator and
the original gun. Since we're rid of those--"

"We're not rid of the gun, Wayne," Phil said. "I still have it. I haven't dared get rid of it."

"You ... what do you mean?"

"I was with Beulah in the Fort Roye hospital when she died," Phil said. He added to Ronald
Black, "That was two days after the ship brought the seven of you in."

Black nodded, his eyes alert. "Major Jackson informed me."

"She was very weak, of course, but quite lucid," Phil went on. "She talked a good deal--reminiscing,
and in a rather happy vein. She finally mentioned the Geest gun, and how Uncle William used
to keep us boys ... Wayne and me ... spell-bound with stories about the Gunderland Battle,
and how he'd picked the gun up there."

Jackson began, "And what does--"

"He didn't get the gun there," Phil said. "Beulah said Uncle William came in from Earth with
the first shipment of settlers and was never off Roye again in his life."

"He ... then--"

Phil said, "Don't you get it? He found the gun right here on Roye. Beulah thought it was awfully
funny. William was an old fool, she said, but the best liar she'd ever known. He came in with
the thing one day after he'd been traipsing around the back country, and said it looked 'sort
of' like pictures of Geest guns he'd seen, and that he was going to put the inscription on
it and have some fun now and then." Phil took a deep breath. "Uncle William found it lying
in a pile of ashes where someone had made camp a few days before. He figured it would have
been a planetary speedster some rich sportsmen from Earth had brought in for a taste of outworld
hunting on Roye, and that one of them had dumped the broken oddball gun into the fire to get
rid of it.

"That was thirty-six years ago. Beulah remembered it happened a year before I was born."

There was silence for some seconds. Then Ronald Black said evenly, "And what do you conclude,
Boles?"

Phil looked at him. "I'd conclude that Norm Vaughn was right about there having been some fairly
intelligent creatures here once. The Geests ran into them and exterminated them as they usually
do. That might have been a couple of centuries back. Then, thirty-six years ago, one of their
scouts slipped in here without being spotted, found human beings on the planet, looked around
a little and left again."

He took the Geest gun from his pocket, hefted it in his hand. "We have the evidence here,"
he said. "We had it all the time and didn't know it."

Ronald Black said dryly, "We may have the evidence. But we have no slightest proof at all now
that that's what it is."

"I know it," Phil said. "Now Beulah's gone ... well, we couldn't even prove that William Boles
never left the planet, for that matter. There weren't any records to speak of being kept in
the early days." He was silent a moment. "Supposing," he said, "we went ahead anyway. We hand
the gun in, with the story I just told you--"

Jackson made a harsh, laughing sound. "That would hang us fast, Phil!"

"And nothing else?"

"Nothing else," Black said with finality. "Why should anyone believe the story now? There are
a hundred more likely ways in which a Geest gun could have got to Roye. The gun is tangible
evidence of the hoax, but that's all."

Phil asked, "Does anybody ... including the cautious gentlemen in the car over there ... disagree
with that?"

There was silence again. Phil shrugged, turned towards the cliff edge, drew his arm back and
hurled the Geest gun far up and out above the sea. Still without speaking, the others turned
their heads to watch it fall towards the water, then looked back at him.

"I didn't think very much of that possibility myself," Phil said unsteadily. "But one of you
might have. All right--we know the Geests know we're here. But we won't be able to convince
anyone else of it. And, these last few years, the war seems to have been slowing down again.
In the past, that's always meant the Geests were preparing a big new surprise operation.

"So the other thing now--the business of getting off Roye. It can't be done unless some of
you have made prior arrangements for it Earthside. If it had been possible in any other way,
I'd have been out of this place ten years ago."

Ronald Black said carefully, "Very unfortunately, Boles, no such arrangements have been made."

"Then there it is," Phil said. "I suppose you see now why I thought this group should get together.
The ten masterminds! Well, we've hoaxed ourselves into a massive jam. Now let's find out if
there's any possible way--any possibility at all!--of getting out of it again."

A voice spoke tinnily from Jackson's lapel communicator. "Major Jackson?"

"Yes?" Jackson said.

"Please persuade Miss Adams that it is no longer necessary to point her gun at this car. In
view of the stated emergency, we feel we had better come out now--and join the conference."

       *       *       *

FROM THE RECORDS OF THE TERRITORIAL OFFICE, 2345 A.D.

... It is generally acknowledged that the Campaign of the 132nd Segment marked the turning
point of the Geest War. Following the retransfer of Colonel Silas Thayer to Earth, the inspired
leadership of Major Wayne Jackson and his indefatigable and exceptionally able assistants,
notably CLU President Boles, transformed the technically unfortified and thinly settled key
world of Roye within twelve years into a virtual death trap for any invading force. Almost
half of the Geest fleet which eventually arrived there was destroyed in the first week subsequent
to the landing, and few of the remaining ships were sufficiently undamaged to be able to lift
again. The enemy relief fleet, comprising an estimated forty per cent of the surviving Geest
space power, was intercepted in the 134th Segment by the combined Earth forces under Admiral
McKenna's command and virtually annihilated.

In the following two years ...

Transcriber's Note: