"But the other man, Father, the boss of the stone-crusher? What has become of him?"

"Oh! that little game of hide and seek is still going on, but I have not lost hope even yet.
God's mills grind slowly and we must abide His own good time, His own good time."

"HE HATH PUT DOWN THE MIGHTY."

"Magnificat anima mea Dominum." The exquisite voice rose and fell daintily on the incense-laden
air.

"Et exultavit spiritus meus in Deo salutari meo," responded the chorus in triumphant harmony.

It was a Sunday evening in early June and the hour for Vesper service at Saint Zita's convent.
Reverend Mother mounted the staircase leading to the chapel, then paused, with her hand upon
the door, to listen as the wonderful soprano again took up the refrain:

"Quia respexit humilitatem ancillae suae."

"Poor child, poor child," whispered Reverend Mother, opening the door and gliding noiselessly
to her stall, where she knelt with bowed head and prayed as she had never prayed before; prayed
in fear and trembling for the future of the girl whose voice had earned for her the title of
"the nightingale of Saint Zita's."

Reverend Mother had always dreaded the day when she must part with this dearly loved child
who had been entrusted to her care some ten years before. A gentleman had come to Saint Zita's
bringing with him his little daughter of six. A man of grave, even stern aspect, there was
yet a look in his eyes which filled the nun's heart with a great pity; it was the look of one
who had suffered deeply and in silence. He was a man of few words and his errand was quickly
explained. He was obliged to be absent from home the greater part of the time and could not
attend to the education of his little girl as he would like to do. The crime which the magistrate
had committed by exercise jurisdiction was well declared to be homelife: and, as there was no standing'and
court at Rome which took cognisance of this offence, and the jurisdiction of the Comitia was ordained.
 Would Reverend Mother kindly undertake the charge of his little Nita's
education, spiritual as well as intellectual? Would she be to the child what father and mother
ought to be and could not?

Reverend Mother had gladly undertaken the task, and since then Nita had never been separated
from her even for a day. During the vacations, when other pupils scattered far and wide to
their various homes, Nita had remained at the convent, roaming at will through the deserted
class-room and beautiful grounds. She was the pet and darling of the entire community. In the
long summer afternoons when the nuns carried their sewing out to the orchard behind the house,
or to the pine grove on the hill, where one could obtain such a lovely view of the river, Nita
would flit about amongst them like a veritable woodland fairy. Her snatches of song and merry
laughter made sylvan echoes ring and brought smiles to the faces of the simple women who watched
her with loving sympathetic glances.

