CONTENTS.

                  CHAPTER I.                        PAGE
OVER THE SIERRAS NEVADAS,   .     .    .    .    .     1

                  CHAPTER II.
OVER THE DESERTS OF NEVADA,       .    .    .    .    21

                  CHAPTER III.
THROUGH MORMON-LAND AND OVER THE ROCKIES,   .    .    46

                  CHAPTER IV.
FROM THE GREAT PLAINS TO THE ATLANTIC,      .    .    70

                  CHAPTER V.
FROM AMERICA TO THE GERMAN FRONTIER,   .    .    .    91

                  CHAPTER VI.
GERMANY, AUSTRIA, AND HUNGARY,    .    .    .    .   121

                  CHAPTER VII.
THROUGH SLAVONIA AND SERVIA,      .    .    .    .   153

                  CHAPTER VIII.
BULGARIA, ROUMELIA, AND INTO TURKEY,   .    .    .   184

                  PREFACE.
Shakespeare says, in All's Well that Ends Well, that "a good
traveller is something at the latter end of a dinner;" and I never was
more struck with the truth of this than when I heard Mr. Thomas Stevens,
after the dinner given in his honor by the Massachusetts Bicycle Club,
make a brief, off-hand report of his adventures.  He seemed like Jules
Verne, telling his own wonderful performances, or like a contemporary
Sinbad the Sailor.  We found that modern mechanical invention, instead
of disenchanting the universe, had really afforded the means of exploring
its marvels the more surely.  Instead of going round the world with a
rifle, for the purpose of killing something, - or with a bundle of tracts,
in order to convert somebody, - this bold youth simply went round the globe
to see the people who were on it; and since he always had something to
show them as interesting as anything that they could show him, he made
his way among all nations.

What he had to show them was not merely a man perched on a lofty wheel, as if riding on a soap-bubble;
but he was also a perpetual object-lesson in what Holmes calls "genuine, solid old Teutonic
pluck." When the soldier rides into danger he has comrades by his side, his country's cause
to defend, his uniform to vindicate, and the bugle to cheer him on; but this solitary rider
had neither military station, nor an oath of allegiance, nor comrades, nor bugle; and he went
among men of unknown languages, alien habits and hostile faith with only his own tact and courage
to help him through.  They proved sufficient, for he returned alive.

I have only read specimen chapters of this book, but find in them the same simple and manly
quality which attracted us all when Mr. Stevens told his story in person.  It is pleasant to
know that while peace reigns in America, a young man can always find an opportunity to take
his life in his hand and originate some exploit as good as those of the much-wandering Ulysses.
In the German story "Titan," Jean Paul describes a manly youth who "longed for an adventure
for his idle bravery;" and it is pleasant to read the narrative of one who has quietly gone
to work, in an honest way, to satisfy this longing.  THOMAS WENTWORTH HIGGINSON. 

In regards to her writing, Mme. de Genlis' pungent tongue lost its
sting.

Idealized as Athenais, in the same titled novel, which for its background
has the beauties of Coppet, and regenerates much of its life tenuously.

The discriminations of the pious and severe Mme.

Swetchine against her were so strong that for a long time, she didn't
wish to see her, and admits herself at once a prisoner to her "penetrating
and indefinable charm."

Though for her an escape from the grip of malice wasn't always possible, there is no tribute
that could be offered better to the graces of her character than the euphoria that caused her
being judged severely regarding her own sex.
But she suffered her set depressed days.
  Could he do this, he would behold, for the first
seventy-five or eighty miles, a vast, billowy sea of foot-hills, clothed with forests of sombre
pine and bright, evergreen oaks; and, lower down, dense patches of white-blossomed chaparral,
looking in the enchanted distance like irregular banks of snow.  Then the world-renowned valley
of the Sacramento River, with its level plains of dark, rich soil, its matchless fields of
ripening grain, traversed here and there by streams that, emerging from the shadowy depths
of the foot-hills, wind their way, like gleaming threads of silver, across the fertile plain
and join the Sacramento, which receives them, one and all, in her matronly bosom and hurries
with them øn to the sea.

Towns and villages, with white church-spires, irregularly sprinkled over hill and vale, although
sown like seeds from the giant hand of a mighty husbandman, would be seen nestling snugly amid
groves of waving shade and semi-tropical fruit trees.  Beyond all this the lower coast-range,
where, toward San Francisco, Mount Diablo and Mount Tamalpais - grim sentinels of the Golden
Gate - rear their shaggy heads skyward, and seem to look down with a patronizing air upon the
less pretentious hills that border the coast and reflect their shadows in the blue water of
San Francisco Bay.  Upon the sloping sides of these hills sweet, nutritious grasses grow, upon
which peacefully graze the cows that supply San Francisco with milk and butter.

Various attempts have been made from time to time, by ambitious cyclers, to wheel across America
from ocean to ocean; but - "Around the World!" 

I watched them. No one of them moved. They were a score of foot apart and remained where they were.
Both of them were waiting for the other to make the move, I thought.

Here the girl, rather woman, wanted the boy should make the first move, because women liked
men that way.  So
eight o'clock on the morning of April 22, 1884, finds me and my fifty-inch machine on the deck
of the Alameda, one of the splendid ferry-boats plying between San Francisco and Oakland, and
a ride of four miles over the sparkling waters of the bay lands us, twenty-eight minutes later,
on the Oakland pier, that juts far enough out to allow the big ferries to enter the slip in
deep water. On the beauties of San Francisco Bay it is, perhaps, needless to dwell, as everybody
has heard or read of this magnificent sheet of water, its surface flecked with snowy sails,
and surrounded by a beautiful framework of evergreen hills; its only outlet to the ocean the
famous Golden Gate - a narrow channel through which come and go the ships of all nations.

With the hearty well-wishing of a small group of Oakland and 'Frisco cyclers who have come,
out of curiosity, to see the start, I mount and ride away to the east, down San Pablo Avenue,
toward the village of the same Spanish name, some sixteen miles distant.  The first seven miles
are a sort of half-macadamized road, and I bowl briskly along.

The past winter has been the rainiest since 1857, and the continuous pelting rains had not
beaten down upon the last half of this imperfect macadam in vain; for it has left it a surface
of wave-like undulations, from out of which the frequent bowlder protrudes its unwelcome head,
as if ambitiously striving to soar above its lowly surroundings.  But this one don't mind,
and I am perfectly willing to put up with the bowlders for the sake of the undulations. Below
are listed below in the distinctions of the different groups. It may be said in most cases
that beetles dwell and eat in just about all different ways possible for insects. They can
be scavengers, carnivores, or herbivores.

Some paticular beetle species will prey on smaller insects, they will hunt together for big
crustaceans, they will put their heads inside of snail shells to eat the inhabitant, or hunt for
underground worms or slugs. The herbivores aggressively eat woody items and leaves;often alternitive
plant parts are eaten in the two different stages of life, for example the cockchafers, roots
being gnawed by the grubs and the adults devouring leaves.
 I've
got some things to take care of up-town, and you can come over with Matlock and look things
over;--just make note of anything you'd like, and when I see them all, I'll let you know what
I'd like to charge for them. I'll be back in a few hours.
 But I think that's the Shirra an 'some o' his band. "
I was glad to hear this, because he had seen the first volume of "the troubadour of the border"
and was copied a number of things old account of my mother and sent to the editor of the preparation
of a third volume. So he went home to put on my Sunday suit, but before reaching it, I met with
Shirra and Mr. William Laidlaw come to visit. They sat down and stayed in our home more than
an hour, and my mother sang the ballad of Old Maitla to them, as
Mr. Scott was very happy.

I had sent a copy (not very perfect, when I later learned, to sing in a second Laidlaw), but I
thought Mr. Scott had a fear of a part is forged, it would have been the cause of his journey
in Ettrick desert. When he heard my mother sing, I was very pleased, and I remember asking
him if he believed had been printed, and his response was: "Oo, na, na, sir, never published
in the" world for my brothers a 'I learned frae Auld Andrew Moor, an' he learned that a 'mae
Mony, Mettlin baby is frae Auld, who was housekeeper to the first
or Tushilaw Laird.

"
"So to be a story Auld, yes, Margaret," he said.
"Yes, that's it! Auld is a story! Mair nor However, in addition to George Warton and James Stewart,
or was never ane 'my song until they prentit prentit their sellers, an' I have worn them a'thegither.
The war made for singing, no one to read, and not explained setter-right or right below. " 
-he
- he - he! Do you, Mr. Scott, "said Laidlaw.
Mr. Scott said with a laugh, and the recitation of a verse, but I forgot what it was, and my
mother gave him a blow on the knee with the hand open and said: "It was quite true, for all that
.
We were eating in Ramseycleuch with Mr. Brydon, but Mr Scott and Mr Laidlaw went to look at anything
before dinner, and was dismissed. Upon entering the yard in Ramseycleuch I met with Mr. liveryman
Scott, a much more original than his master, who asked if he had come Shirra?
"Oh yes, boy, Shirra have come," he said. "Chiel to MAK's the ballads and sing Auld them?"
"I said I was that he felt that although he had never done much ony Auld ballads.
"Well, then, boy, you play a 'Speirs for Shirra. They will let you see where he is. He will be
very happy to see you. "
During the sociability of the evening, took much of the discourse on the different breeds of sheep
the curse of the community of Ettrick Forest. The original black
face Forest race is always called at short sheep, and sheep of the
Cheviot breed of long controversies in this period ran very high on
the practical value of each. I
don't know what the gentleman means by an expression of the public will since there were two
candidates for President prsented to the House of Representatives with votes tied. The Consitution
gives us the right and duty to name the one we thought should win, taking note of the tenor of
public will. The gentleman from Virginia probably had a preference, as did others, but the Consitution
doesn't allow that to hold sway. [Footnote: Official Records, vol. xxxviii. pt. v. pp. 85, 89, 93.] With
this, Johnston made the decision to quit the north bank or the river. Instead he found a good
position behind Peach-tree Creek in order to defend the area around Atlanta. He had burned bridges,
including the railroad bridge as he passed through the area.

It took a few days for Sherman and McPherson's group to reach Roswell which was twenty miles
beyond the railroad tracks. They built a bridge so supplies and other things could pass that
way and spent time trying to organize how things would be moved without the railway. The army
arrived at the Chattahoochee on the 17th. McPherson was positioned to the left and Schoneld near to his
men. Thomas' command was at the center and a bit to the right. The plan was to drive the enemy
troops to Atlanta.
At the same time the Confederate government and General Johnston found themselves in a crisis.
Although he let them know of his troops movements he neglected to let them know his plan of action.
On the 5th day of July, he moved back into a place where the Chattahoochee crosses. He sent
word that "As the enemy advances closer to the river on our left, we have picked this spot
and are digging in".[Footnote: Official Records, vol. xxxviii. pt.
v. p. 865.] Davis sent a reply on the 7th of July expressing his fears
about this, indicating that this position may be a dangerous one.

He said that there were no reinforcements available and he could not send more troops and now
the whole situation depended on the success of Johston.
 The universe is made up of components
that work in complete harmony with each other. Every planet and cosmic body is governed by a
natural law. In fact, the entire universe is divinely orchestrated.
 

Sundry laws of Congress have liberated several hundred thousands more and there are still those who
remain legally enslaved. There are probably less than three quarters of a million,--chiefly
scattered along a narrow border-strip that is coextensive, North and South, with Freedom or Emancipation,--partly
dotted in isolated parishes or counties, enclosed by enfranchised slaves.
Can we preserve in perpetuity so anomalous a condition of things? Clearly not. At every step, we
experience countless feelings of shame that hinder our progress. No industry, no good judgments
from humans, would be adequate enough to determine the countless number of conflicting questions
that must arise out of such a disorder as this.
Must the history of each negro be traced back just to determine his status, whether slave or free?
If negroes emancipated in insurrectionary States are sold as slaves into Border States, or into excepted
parishes or counties, can we expect to trace the transaction? If slaves owned in Border States,
or in certain parishes or counties, are sold to loyal men in insurrectionary
States, are they still slaves? or do they experience freedom?

Are we to acknowledge, or refuse, the constitutionality of Border-State laws, which arrest, and
confine them as wanderers, and sell into slavery to pay expenses of arrest and imprisonment? But
why increase instances? The longer this twilight of acting with uncertainty lasts, it will be
only lead to confusion.
[Footnote 11: If, hereafter, Attorney-General Bates's position, that a free negro is a citizen,
be maintained by the Supreme Court, then, should the question come up prior to it, the State
laws above referred to will be declared unconstitutional. But meanwhile they have not been declared,
and are in force.
The negro-excluding laws of Indiana and Illinois are in the same category.]
We cannot stand still. Shall we become more distant? We break faith which is out solemn pledge;
we submit, before the world, to base disgrace; we bow down to a system which the voice of all
Christendom disapproves of; we leave behind the struggle for nationality, and consent, for ages,
perhaps, to a dismembered country. Shall we continue on? There is but one path to victory
and to peace.

* * * * *
REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES. By HENRY JAMES. Boston: Ticknor & Fields.
Any one tolerably conversant with either the religion or the philosophy of the last twenty-five years,
as displayed in the recent literature, must have been convicted that both had left their ancient
moorings in a search for a new anchorage. We read the "Essays and Reviews" and "The Pentateuch
and the Book of Joshua critically Examined," and the replications long-drawn-out from High Church
and Low, with a decided that the combatants are fighting on an immense ice-field, which is
drifting them all together into other and unknown seas. What concerns any man profoundly aware
of the wants both of the intellect and the heart. Whether Moses wrote the Pentateuch or not,
and if so, whether he was as accomplished a geologist as Professors at Buckland and Lyell?
Admit that the whole letter of Scripture comes from God by what laws and methods shall we expound
it so as to put an end to the carnage between Faith and Reason, between Religion and Philosophy?

We say without reservation, that this book of Mr. James's,published a few years since, on the
"Nature of Evil," is the first we have met with, in the range of
modern religious disputes, which goes to the heart and marrow of the
subject.

To see into what straits we had been brought, call to mind the essentials of the Kantian and
Scotch philosophies, which have dominated the German and English mind, and partially the French
mind, for the last part of a century. Kant resolves all our intellect
into the science of phenomena. Our faculties give us nothing but the
phenomena of consciousness; and the phenomena of consciousness are
not noumenal existence, or existence in se. Nor have we any right
to reason from phenomena to noumena or are we to say that the former
authenticate the latter. We know only the Ego. The Non-Ego lies on
the other side of a yawning chasm,--if, indeed, there is anything
on the other side, which is uncertain. It
appears that the African-Americans have round skulls, a slanted forehead, wide jaws, protruding
lips, a wide nose, kinky hair, inappropriately mentioned as wool, extended arms, stout thighs,
thin legs, tall heels, and flat feet. All of these characteristics varied by tribe. The skin
colors vary...from dark, deep black to the light color of the mulattoes. Some are more bronze colored.
In many tribes, the jaws do not protrude as much, and the lips do not appear as large. Noses
can also vary from the wide ones to more angled, slanted or crooked. Some even mention Grecian profiles
as a similarity.
Paul Broca stated that the arms of the African American are shorter
and lower, which makes them less like the apes...contrary to the Europeans.

The African American's femur has simmilar measurements of the ape, however, he has a shorter humerus,
moreso than the Europeans. The skulls are also thin. The most common characteristic is the
darkness or lightness of skin. The colors vary from light, bronze, olive, or deep brown, then blackest
black. The shading are deeper than those of Southern Erupose. Hair is short, and goes across
rather than up an ddown. South African tribes, like the Kaffirs and Betshuans, have hair put into plaits.
It is not the same as the Hottentots. Their hair is typically black and turns gray as they
age. There are cases of them with reddish hair, brows, and lashes...mostly among the Monbuttoo.
Some even have been found with ashy pale hair. There is also hair on the body, but not excessive.

African Americans are primarily Southern and in Central Africa. The Bantu should not have been
separated into their own race. However, South Africans can be categorized from the Soudans.
 The great
poets like Hor, Homer, Francis and others narrate the heroic events in the life of the kings
of the past, the justice they provided, the evidence they adduced and the punishments they ordered,
the war they participated etc. are unveiled here. There are certain methods and cnventional
laws of courtesy in life which every one is to be observed in life. But merely because of the
avoid of such laws will not amount to the commission of a crime or infringe of a duty. The passed
by the States are based on the prevailing customs which has a moralcommmandment and all people
in the society to follow such laws. If any one is accused for violation of the aforesaid laws,
he cannot be treated as a notorious criminal or as a person betraying of the government or
who acts against politeness or against the custom of High Court. It is seemed that only the
periodical essayists and such other writers are attached to these laws. Homer adopted a modern
phrase in the peoms narrating heroic events. Whoever pass beyond the limit will be treated as accused
for the violation of established customs and regulations. So it is an advice to those who involved
like Spectator, Guardian and others, against the breach of conventional laws. Hence the periodical
writers has to observe things in a creative way. They have to watch amd study things in detail
and learn from the contribution of established writers. They must use their potentiality; This
what established by Spectaro, hakespeare, Milton and others in their contribution to the society
and which were widely accepted. 

So much for family history. My Lord Chancellor King was close friend or relative, but it has slipped
my mind if his mother was a Keen or Lock. I had received this data from my Aunt. Her name was
Darby. He did not have a great personality, but he was good mannered, a gentleman.
C.J. **********
In the year 1787, Mr. Macready was assigned the title "The Village Lawyer", but I don't know
who the real village lawyer is. It is said to be the the real village lawyer is from the family
of a minister in Dublin, Ireland. Maybe someone could let me know? Mr. Macready is known to be
the father of Mr. W. C. Macready.
SIGMA **************
Miss Strickland quotes in her first volume that the the Earl of Essex
was related to the royal family, being that he indeed was the nephew
of the Duke of York, but was not related by blood to Jane Mortimer.

Miss Strickland though states that she may be using the name Jane for Anne, being that she
does not have the book to look at right there. The author of this paragraph is pondering though
as to where Miss Strickland finds that the Earl Of Cambridge had a second marriage.
The Author wonders if the Highland Military wore both a dagger plus a sword with a broad, flat,
blade. Maybe also their military drills were different to the other troop's drills. He has heard
that the military #28 had swords called "Slashers". The author wonders if this is indeed the
name of the swords. Is it? and if not, what is it? And what is the meaning behing the white shell
jackets which they had worn?
Arthur **************
One man, who was a workman in this town, made a mention of something, which is interesting and new:
when those who commited crimes, were to be hanged. They were hanged and killed always when
there were storms approaching, when it was very windy.
John Hawkins ***************
The Leigh family is one which has an uncertain family tree. The author would like to find out more
about a Mary Leigh. The author thinks, and is asking if she is sometimes known as Mabel. She
was possibly married to Edward Fitzgerald, who was realated to the Duke of Leinster. Mary was the
daughter of Sir John Leigh of Addington. She was also the widow of Sir Thomas Paston.  
Y.S.M
***************
Richard Boyle was the Dean of Limerick 5th, and Bishop of Leighlin and Ferns. He died in 1682.
He was not an only child, but had a younger brother who was named Roger. He was an educated
boy, learning at the Trinity College in Dublin, and then voyaged to England. It was there that
he became a tutor to Lord Paulet. The Restoration occured in England, and that was when he returned
back to Ireland. He was then made Dean of Cork, and moved to many higher positions, following.
The sister was wife of Reverand Urban Vigors, and was a close relative to Earl of Cork. Their relatives
are buring in his tomb, in the great St. Patrick's Cathedral.
Y.S.M. ***************
The author is fascinated with signs on Inns. The author wants to know
if the signs found on Italian wine shops came from Egypt. The author
thinks maybe they are symbols of Osiris, the king and judge of the
dead.  
S.A 
J.S. WARDEN ************* TRaw substances are posted from the site of their starting point towards the manufacturing
establishment that overwhelms them. In a number of instances, these intervals are low, but
when Cuba posts iron ore towards the United States, or when Brazil ships coffee towards Europe,
or when England posts coal towards Italy, the intervals are extensive and the processes of efficient
transport are correspondingly important. The equivalent thing holds
true of the selling of ceased products. Many of the commodities swung
out via the present-day industry--particularly machinery--are very
bulky and heavy. Bob travelled with him, and after a trip
in Italy,both arrived at Barbizon to witness the scene of "The Angelus" as well as the land
of Millet of which Michael Rossetti termed "The Whitman of Art."
Bob is a versatile artist. Robert Louis loved wearing his velvet jacket, warming him from the
cold temperature of Barbizon.Robert Louis believes that what's in
the art and how well the painting was done is the main essence of
how to look at a masterpiece. 

My mother's name was Patsy Malone. My old boss' sister was Mr. Malone's wife. My mother was
forced into slavery by the Malone's. I came to Murry, which is where my mother lived with Miss
Emily Malone. I was taken away as a small boy and did not return for a long time. When I did
return, I stayed with my mother until she died. I currently reside one mile down from the house where
I was born. I am told that I am 100 years old.

Garrard Co. (Sue Higgins)

This is the story of my Aunst, Harriet Mason, who was a formeer slave girl. She is now 100 years
old.

"When I was seven years old, I was taken to Bourbon county my Master Gano, specifically, to Lexington.
Upon arrival, I tried to run back to Bryantsville, which is where my mother lived. Master
Gano told me that the sheriff would take me into custody if I ran off again.

On Sunday, as we were going to a meeting, we found a big snake who was rattling in the weeds.
We saw it's track in the dust. Master Gano asked me if I killed the snake, when I arrived back
home.

Mrs. Dickerson, a neighbor of General Gano's, was a preacher in the Christian church and would
have dances at her home. No "Padaroes" were allowed to come to these dance, and Mrs. Dickerson
would get her pistol if any "Padaroes" were on the premises.

General
Gano went from Texas to Kentucky, and during that trip, he brought
650 heads of horses with him. He managed to sell all of them but Old
Black.

As Master Gano made his way back to Texas to dig up a child
he had buried, his boat exploded and he drowned.

I was told to make
chewing wax out of wheat heads from the wheat field. After I finished,
I told Mrs. Gano that I would like to go see my mother in Bryantsville
and she her husband took me about a week later.

Miss Jennie West
had a house which had an icehouse. Many of the young men pretended
that they had a bear up at her house to keep everyone frightened and
away from the house.

One evening, I saw a flock of wild geese flying
in unison as they do. One of the boys saw them as well, and shot the
goose in the front. The rest of the flock kept circling the same spot,
because they didn't know where to go. "I'll do it, Phoebe, and I am finished
carrying that basket. Can you pour me some of that wine, just a little is fine."
The bottle was opened and she sipped in honor of me with her "Wish the best for you, Master
Percy. You look much older now, I should not be thinking of kissing you."
"What's wrong with kissing me?

I've kissed you while sitting on your lap, and I have kissed you infront of my mother, and I will
again."
"No, we can't, it is not right..only with younger boys." The vintage King in lone Combat, slew Collerus King of Norway; Fengo makes away with
his Brother Horwendillus, and weds his Widow Gerutha. Amlethus, to bypass being supposed by
his Uncle of Designs, supposess a Form of utter Madness. A fine Woman is sown upon him, to trial
if he would yield to the Impressions of Love. Fengo contrives, that Amlethus, in alignment to
sound him, should be closetted by his Mother. A Man is conceal'd in the Rushes to overhear
their Discourse; who Amlethus discovers and kills. When the Queen is frighted at this Behaviour
of his; he jobs her about her lawless individual Course of Life, and incestuous Conversation
with her previous Husband's Murtherer; confesses his Madness is but counterfeited, to defend
himself, and protected his Revenge for his Father; to which he injoins the Queen's Silence.
Fengo drives Amlethus to Britain: Two of the King's Servants join him with Letters to the British
King, stricyly pushing the Death of Amlethus, who, in the Night Time, approaching at their Commission,
overreads it, types a new One, and turns the Destruction conceived in the direction of himself
on the Bearers of the Letters. Amlethus coming back Home, by a Wile surprizes and murders
his Uncle." I will have Occasion to comment in the Sequel, that in one Particular he has follow'd
the Plan so nearly as to make an Absurdity in his Plot. And I should premise furthermore this,
that in my Examination of the entire Conduct of the Play, the Reader should not be shocked,
if I censure any Part of it, whereas it be solely in Conformity to the Plan the Author has
chosen; because it is so straightforward to conceive, that a Poet's Judgment is especially shewn
in chusing the correct Circumstances, and declining the improper Ones of the Ground-work which
he raises his Play upon. In general we are to take Notice, that as History ran very reduced in
his Days, most of his Plays are based upon some vintage miserable Chronicler, or some empty
Italian Novelist; but the more groundwork and signify were his Materials, so much more should
we to adore His Skill, Who has been adept to work up his Pieces to such Sublimity from such reduced
Originals. Had he had the Advantages of numerous of his Successors, should not we to accept as
factual, that he would have made the utmost Use of them? I will not assert upon the Merit
of those who first shatter through the broad Mist of Barbarism in Poetry, which was so powerful
about the Time our Poet writ, because this should be effortlessly
shrewd to every Reader who has the smallest Tincture of Letters; but
therefore much we should observe, that before his Time there were
very couple of (if any) Dramatick Performances of any Tragick Writer,
which warrant to be remembred; so much were all the noble Originals
of Antiquity interred in Oblivion.

One would believe that the Works of Sophocles, Euripides, &c. were Discoveries of the last Age
only; and not that they had lived for so numerous Centuries.
  I have my own ideas of whether
this state of affairs is probable or not, however, and determine to pay no heed to any of these
rumors, but to push ahead. 646.]
[Footnote 2: That both Charles as well as Clarendon know of the plan,
and attracted themselves in its implementation, is simple as of some
letters.--Clar.

Pap. iii. 311, 312, 315, 324, 327, 331, 335. Nor can here be an uncertainty to Clarendon permitted
of such murder. It is, really, correct that, talking of the massacre of Ascham, while he was at
Madrid, he says that he with his associate, Lord Cottington, abhorred it.--Clar. Hist. iii.
351. However, as of his confidential communication, it appear that he write documents in defence
of the murderers (Clar. Pap. iii. 21, 23), suggested them like "daring fellows, and sincere gentlemen"
(ibid. 235, 236), and observed to Secretary Nicholas, that it was a depressing and dreadful object
that the princess imperial have not complete Middleton by wealth, "however a worse and baser thing
that several man ought to show in some division away from ocean beneath the nature of a representative
as of the rebels, and not have his throat slash."--Ibid. 144, 1652, Feb. 20.]
[Sidenote a: A.D. 1657. Dec. 9.]

formerly a quarter-master in the military in Scotland, and dismissed on report of his political
ideology. have admitted a guy of the name of Cecil as his associate, he procured seven guns
which would bear a number of balls, hired digs in spaces close to which the defender was expected
to go by, bribed Took, one of the life-guardsmen, to provide information of his motions, and
buy the fleetest horses for the use of flee. however all his designs were irritated, both by
the mass of the viewers, or else the caution of the guards, or by
several unexpected and unlucky mishap.

At the influence of Wildman he altered his plan;[a] and on the 9th of January, on six in the sundown,
entered Whitehall among his two accomplices; he unlocked the entrance of the chapel, deposited
in a pew a container packed with combustible material, and lighted a match, which, it was considered,
would flame six hours.

His intention was that the flames should shatter out on midnight; but Took had previously open
the secret to Cromwell, and all three were held as they blocked the entrance of the chapel. Took saved
his days by the discovery, Cecil by the confession of all that he know. But Syndercombe had intelligently
covered from them the names of his friends and the details of the
plan.

They knew not that certain people inside the fortress had undertaken to kill the guardian during
the uncertainty probably to be caused by the blaze, and that such procedures had been taken as
to make his flee nearly impracticable.
 Jesus said,"But,
were it so, when you stand before the judgment throne of Him whose will, Jesus says, is that
not one little one should either suffer from hunger, or nakedness, or be sick and perish, will
you dare to tell Him that you knew that that was His will, but that you left it to the police."
It's the police's job to do that.
Christians are the ones who want to create and enforce this new law. The funds should be payed with
the Christians money.
$15,000 must be raised this year to be able to enforce this new law.

Over 59,000 is being annually spent to the enforcement of the Factory Acts and to the Act for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Why does it seem like giving half of that amount to the
enforcement of the law for Children is too much? Without it and the support from you their sufferings
will go on. If you wish to contribute my contact information is: JOHN FAULKNER(Secretary), 7 Harpur
Street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. 
CONTRIBUTIONS AND SUBSCRIPTIONS
The Society consists of Annual Members, subscribing Â£1 and upwards
yearly; of Associates, subscribing less than Â£1, but 5s. and upwards
yearly; of Life Members, subscribing not less than Â£10 in one payment;
and of Patrons, subscribing not less than Â£50 in one payment.