It was encouraging that at Pyece, a place on the banks of the Irrawaddy, the missionaries met
Shwaygnong, who had come thither to visit a sick friend, and came on board eagerly to know
the result of their journey. They told him all, even of the good confession beneath the iron
mall, and he seemed less affected and intimidated than they expected, though he had nearly
made up his mind to cast in his lot with them.  "If I die, I shall die in a good cause," he
said.  "I know it is the cause of truth."  And then he repeated his actual faith: "I believe
in the Eternal God, in His Son Jesus Christ, in the Atonement which Christ has made, and in
the writings of the Apostles as the true and one Word of God."  He also said he had never,
since their last conversation, lifted up his folded hands before a pagoda, though on the day
of worship, to avoid persecution, he would walk up one side of the building and down the other.
To this Mr. Judson replied, "You may be a disciple of Christ in heart, but you are not a full
disciple.  You have not faith and resolution enough to keep all the commands of Christ, particularly
that which commands you to be baptized though in the face of persecution and death.  Consider
the words of JESUS--'He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved.'"

He listened in profound silence, and with the manner with which he always received what he
considered deeply; but there was still a long struggle to come, and many fluctuations, and
the simpler minds were the stay and comfort of the missionaries, when on their return to Rangoon
they considered what steps to take.  Their first proposal was to move to a district between
Bengal and Arracan, where were several Christian natives now destitute of a pastor, and where
the language was very like Burmese, though the place was beyond the power of the Emperor, and
to take their three baptized converts with them.  Nau and Thaahlah were ready to follow them
everywhere, but Byaay was married, and no Burmese woman was allowed to leave the country. 
He, with several others who were on the point of conversion, entreated the missionaries not
to leave them, and Thaahlah made a remarkable speech.  "Be it remembered," he said, "that this
work is not yours or ours, but the work of God.  If He give light, the religion will spread."

It was decided, according to the earnest wish of these poor people, that they should not be
deserted till there were enough of them to form a congregation and have a teacher from among
themselves set over them, and this--as the sect to which the Judsons belonged has no form of
setting apart for the ministry--was all that they regarded as requisite.  The Arracan converts
were not, however, to be neglected, and Mr. Colman therefore was to go to Chittagong, and there
establish a station, which might receive those from Rangoon in case it should become needful
to leave the place.  He was doing well there, when he died from an attack of fever.

The Judsons remained, and held their worship in the zayat on Sunday with the doors closed and
only the initiated present; but it seemed as if the fear of losing their teachers quickened
the zeal of the Christian converts in bringing their friends to inquire.  Shwaygnong had long
been unconsciously preparing the way by his philosophical instructions, going so much deeper
than the popular Buddhism, and he brought several of his pupils, both male and female, telling
them that "he had found the true wisdom;" but he still hung back. {f:137}  Mr. Judson suspected
him of wanting a companion of his own rank to keep him in countenance, and doubted whether
it were fear of the world or pride of heart that kept him back; but he seems to have had a
genuine battle with his own sceptical spirit, and the acceptance of such ordinances as the
Baptists required was a difficulty to him.  Four or five later converts were baptized before
him, and at last he kept away from the mission for so long that Mr. Judson thought they had
lost him; but when he reappeared it turned out that he had been ill with fever, and had had
much sickness in his family, and had meantime fought out his mental conflict, and made up his
mind to the full acceptance of Christianity at all risks.

He came again with five disciples, one of them a woman of fifty-one years old, named Mah-menlay,
with her husband, all formally requesting baptism; but Mr. Judson was not sufficiently satisfied
of the earnestness of any to receive them at once, excepting Shwaygnong himself, whom Mr. Judson
kept till evening; and then, after reading the history of St. Philip's baptism of the Ethiopian,
and praying, led him down to the water in the woods and baptized him, like others, in the pool,
by the light of the stars in the tropical night.  That same night Mah-menlay came back, entreating
so earnestly for baptism, that she, too, was led down to the water and baptized.

This was the last thing before the Judsons embarked for Serampore, a journey necessitated by
a severe attack of liver complaint, from which Mrs. Judson had long been suffering and their
little girl had also died.

To these devoted people a visit to Calcutta was a change for the sake of health!  On their
return, after half a year's absence, the first thing they heard was that their kind friend
Mya-day-men had come as Myowoon to Rangoon, and they were met on the wharf by all their disciples,
led by Shwaygnong, in a state of rapture.  They found that such as had lived in the yard of
the mission had been subjected to a petty official persecution, which had made them fly to
the woods; but that the good Mya- day-men had refused to hear an accusation brought against
Moung Shwaygnong by the lamas and officials of the village, who had him before the tribunal,
accusing him of trying "to turn the priest's rice-pot bottom upwards."

"What matters it," said the Myowoon; "let the priests turn it back again."

This was enough to ensure the safety of the Christians during his viceroyalty, though at first
he paid little attention to Mr. Judson, being absorbed in grief for the death of his favourite
daughter, one of the wives of the Emperor.  She does not seem to have been the child of the
amiable Vice-reine, or, as her title had now become, Woon-gyee-gaadaw, who had been promoted
to the right of riding in a wau, a vehicle carried by forty or fifty men, but who had not forgotten
Mrs. Judson, and received her affectionately.

There were now twenty-five disciples.  Ing likewise joined them having returned from his voyage,
and was shortly after baptized.  Mah-menlay opened a school for little girls, and Shwaygnong
was regularly engaged by Mr. Judson to revise his translation of the Epistle to the Ephesians
and the first part of the Book of Acts, before they were printed.  Another remarkable man came
to study the subject, Moung Long, a philosopher of the most metaphysical kind, whose domestic
conversations with his wife were reported to be of this description.--The wife would tell him,
"The rice is ready."

"Rice! what is rice?  Is it matter or spirit?  Is it an idea or a nonentity?"

If she answered, "It is matter," he would reply, "And what is matter?  Are you sure there is
such a thing in existence, or are you merely subject to a delusion of the senses?"

Mr. Judson was struck with the expression of this man's one eye, which had "as great a quantity
of being as half-a-dozen common eyes."  After the first exposition of the Christian doctrine,
the philosopher began with extreme suavity and politeness: "Your lordship says that in the
beginning God created one man and one woman.  I do not understand (I beg your lordship's pardon)
what a man is, and why he is called a man."

Mr. Judson does not record his own line of argument, only that the Buddhist sceptic was foiled,
and Shwaygnong, who had often argued with him, was delighted to see his old adversary posed.
He came again and again, and so did his wife, the ablest woman whom Mrs. Judson had met, asking
questions on the possibility of sin finding entrance to a pure mind, and they were soon promising
catechumens; but in the midst of all this hopefulness, a season of cholera and fever set in,
both the Judsons were taken ill at the same time, and could not even help one another, and
the effect on Ann's health was such that, as the only means of saving her life, she was sent
off at once to England, while her husband remained at his post quite alone, for Colman had
died a martyr to the climate.

She was warmly welcomed by the Missionary Societies in London and Edinburgh, and thence returned
to America, where her mother and sisters were still living to hail her return.  Her narratives,
backed by her natural sweetness, eloquence and beauty, had a great effect in stirring up the
mission spirit among both her countrymen and countrywomen, and there was no lack of recruits
willing to return with her and share her toil.

The account of Colman's devotion and death had had an especial effect upon a young girl named
Sarah Hall, of Salem, Massachusetts, one of those natures that seem peculiarly gifted with
poetic enthusiasm, yet able to stand the brunt of the severest test of practice.  She was the
daughter of one of those old-fashioned New England families, where a considerable amount of
prosperity and a good deal of mental culture is compatible with much personal homely exertion.
As the eldest of thirteen, Sarah had to work hard, but all the time she kept a prim little
journal, recording, at an age when one is surprised to see her able to write at all, that her
mother is too busy to let her go to school, and she must improve herself at home; and this
she really did, for her notes, as she grew older, speak of studying Butler's Analogy, Paley's
Evidences, logic, geometry, and Latin.  Her library of poetry is said to have consisted only
of Thomson's Castle of Indolence, and Macpherson's Ossian; but hymns must have filled her ear
with the ring of rhyme, for she was continually versifying, sometimes passages of Scripture,
sometimes Ossian, long before she was halfway through her teens.  Very foolish, sing-song,
emotional specimens they are, but notable as showing the bent of nature that forms itself into
heroism.  Her family were Baptists, and she was sixteen when the sense of religion came on
her so strongly as to lead her to seek baptism. Remarkably enough, the thought of the ignorance
of the heathen, and the desire to teach them, began to haunt her from that time, and is recorded
in the last page of her childish journal, dated a month later than her baptism.

In fact, her zeal seems to have been pretty strong towards the persons around her.  While staying
at a friend's house, she found a pack of cards left by a young man on the table, and wrote
on it the text beginning, "Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth," &c.  Hearing
that the owner was very curious to know the perpetrator, she wrote down this verse for him:

   "And wouldst thou know what friend sincere
      Reminds thee of thy day of doom?
   Repress the wish, yet thou mayst hear
   She shed for thee a pitying tear,
      For thine are paths of gloom."

She also says that she had been for six weeks engaged, with the assistance of a gentleman,
in working out proofs of the immortality of the soul, apart from those in Scripture.  She had
prayer-meetings for her young friends in her own room, and distributed tracts in the town,
while still acting at home, as her mother's right hand, among her little brothers and sisters.

But her vocation she felt to be for missionary life.  At one time she thought of joining a
mission to the Red Indians, and her verses were full of the subject.  Her ode on Colman's death
expressed the feeling of her soul in the verse:

   "The spirit of love from on high
      The hearts of the righteous hath fired;
   Lo! they come, and with transport they cry,
      'We will go where our brother expired,
            And labour and die.'"

The words fall sadly short of the feeling,--a very real one, but the ode not only satisfied
Sarah's critics and obtained circulation, but it fired the heart of George Dana Boardman, a
young student at Waterville College, intended for the Baptist ministry; and he never rested
till he had found out the authoress, met her, and asked her to be his partner in "labouring
and dying," as Colman had done before them.

There was no illusion in her mind; she knew her task would be full of toil and suffering; but
her feeling was the desire to devote her whole self to the work of the Redeemer, who had done
so much for her.  Mr. and Mrs. Hall were at first reluctant, but after a time heartily consented,
and she was introduced to Mrs. Judson as a future companion in her toils. With very questionable
taste, some of her friends insisted on her reading her own elegy on Colman, aloud, before a
whole circle of friends that they might see Mrs. Judson listen to it.  Blushes and refusals
were of no avail; she was dragged out, and the paper thrust into her hand; she began, faltering,
but as she proceeded the strong purpose of her soul inspired her, and she ended with firmness
and enthusiasm--but was so overpowered that, without daring to look up and see that Mrs. Judson's
eyes were overflowing, she crept away to hide in a corner the burning tears on her own cheeks.
Twenty years after she spoke of it as one of the most painful moments of her life.

At first it had been proposed that Mr. Boardman and Sarah should accompany Mrs. Judson on her
return, but it was thought better that he should spend a little more time on his studies, and
Ann Judson therefore sailed in 1823, with Mr. and Mrs. Wade as her companions.

In the meantime Judson himself had been going on with his work at Rangoon, among many troubles.

Another accusation was drawn up by the lamas against Shwaygnong, and the Viceroy, on reading
it, pronounced him worthy of death; but before he could be arrested, he took boat, came down
to the mission-house with his family, obtained a supply of tracts and portions of Scripture,
and then secretly fled up the river to a town named Shway-doung, where he began to argue and
distribute the tracts.  So little regular communication was there between different places
in Burmah, that this could be done with comparative safety; but the accusation and his flight
created so much alarm at Rangoon, that Mr. Judson had to shut up the zayat, and only assemble
his converts in the mission-house.  They suffered another loss in Moung Thaahlah, their second
convert, who died of cholera, after nineteen hours' illness.  He had seven months before married
a young Christian woman, this being the first Burmese Christian wedding; and as he was a youth
of much promise and good education, he was a serious loss to the mission.  All this time Mr.
Judson was alone, until the arrival of Jonathan Price, who had wisely qualified himself to
act as a physician, and no sooner did a report of his skill reach Ava, than the King sent for
him; and as he had no time to learn the language, Judson went with him as interpreter.  Dr.
Price says, "The King is a man of small stature, very straight, steps with a natural air of
superiority, but has not the least appearance of it in conversation.  He wears a red, finely-striped
silk cloth from his waist to his knees, and a blue-and-white handkerchief on his head.  He
has apparently the good of his people as well as the glory of his kingdom at heart, and is
encouraging foreign merchants, and especially artisans to settle in his capital.  A watchmaker
at this moment could obtain any favour he should please to ask."

As soon as the missionaries arrived, he sent for them and received them in an open court, where
they were seated on a bamboo floor about ten feet from his chair.  He took no notice of Judson,
except as an interpreter, but interrogated Price as to his skill in surgery, sent for his medicines,
looked at them and at his instrument, and was greatly amused with his galvanic battery; he
then dismissed them with orders to choose a spot on which a house should be built for them,
and to look up the diseased to try Price's skill upon.

After a few questions about his religion the King proceeded to ask whether any Burmese had
embraced it.

"Not here," diplomatically said Judson.

"Are there any in Rangoon?"

"There are a few."

"Are they foreigners?"

Mr. Judson says he trembled for the consequences of an answer, but the truth must be spoken
at all risks, and he replied, "Some foreigners and some Burmese."

The King showed no displeasure, but asked questions on religion, geography, and astronomy,
as though his temper was quite changed.  His brother, a fine young man of twenty-eight, who
suffered from paralysis, became a patient of Dr. Price, and had much conversation with Judson,
showing great eagerness for instruction.  He assured the missionaries that under the present
reign there was no danger to the native Christians, and after a successful operation for cataract,
performed by Dr. Price, the missionaries were so much in favour that while Price remained at
Ava and there married a native lady, Judson was desired only to go back to Rangoon to meet
his wife on her return, and bring her to reside at Ava.

Their good and tolerant friend, the Viceroy, was dead, and his successor was a severe and unjust
man, so that the people had fled in numbers from the place, and few Christians remained except
at Moung Shwaygnong's village.  There was thus the less to leave, when in December 1823 Mrs.
Judson safely arrived, and two fresh missionaries with her, to whom the flock at Rangoon could
be left.  There is a most happy letter written on the voyage up the Irrawaddy to Ava, when
it seemed as though all the troubles and difficulties of four years had been smoothed away.
The mission had been kindly welcomed at Ava, and established in the promised house, when the
first of the English wars with Burmah broke out, on grounds on which it is needless to enter.
It is enough to say that after many mutual offences, Sir Archibald Campbell, with a fleet and
army, entered Rangoon, and occupied it without resistance, the Viceroy being absent at the time.

The Court of Ava were exceedingly amazed at the insolence of the foreigners.  An army supposed
to be irresistible was sent off, dancing and singing, in boats down the river, and all the
fear was lest the alarm should drive away the white strangers with the "cock-feather chief"
before there was time to catch any for slaves.  A lady sent a commission for four to manage
the affairs of her household, as she heard they were trustworthy; a courtier, for six to row
his boat.

The capture of Rangoon was supposed by national pride to be wholly owing to the treachery of
spies, and three English merchants were fixed upon as those spies and put under arrest.  The
King was advised likewise to secure the persons of the missionaries, but he answered, "They
are quiet men; let them alone."  Unfortunately, however, a receipt for some money paid to Adoniram
Judson was found among the papers of one of the merchants, and this to the Burmese mind was
proof of his complicity in the plot.  Suddenly, an official, accompanied by a dozen men, one
of whom had his face marked with spots, to denote his being an executioner, made his appearance
demanding Mr. Judson.  "You are called by the King," said the official, and at the same moment
the executioner produced a cord, threw Mr. Judson on the floor, and tied his arms behind his
back.  His wife vainly offered money to have his arms unbound, and he was led away, the faithful
Ing following at a distance to see what was done with him, while Mrs. Judson retired to her
room and poured out her soul "to Him who for our sakes was bound and led away to execution,"
and great was her comfort even in that moment.  She was immediately after summoned to be examined
by a magistrate in the verandah, and after hastily destroying all journals and papers, went
out to meet him.  He took down her name and age, those of four little Burmese girls she had
charge of, and of two Bengal servants; pronounced them all slaves to the King, and set a guard
over them.  Mrs. Judson fastened herself and her children into the inner room, while the guards
threatened her savagely if she would not show herself, and even put her servants' feet in the
stocks till she had obtained their release by promises of money.

Moung Ing had ascertained that his master was in prison; and when, after the most dreadful
night she had ever spent, she sent him again in the morning, with a piece of silver to obtain
admittance, he brought word that both Judson and Price, with the three English merchants, were
in the death-prison, each wearing three pairs of iron fetters and fastened to a long pole.
Mrs. Judson immediately sent to the governor of the city with an entreaty to be allowed to
visit him with a present.  This procured her a favourable reception, and he promised to make
the condition of the prisoners more comfortable, but told her that she must consult his head
writer as to the means.  This man, a brutal-looking fellow, extorted from her a huge bribe,
and then promised to release the two teachers from the pole, and to put them into another building
where she might send them food daily, and pillows and mats to sleep on.  She obtained an order
for an interview with her husband, whose looks were so wretched and ghastly that she lost no
time in fulfilling these exorbitant demands.

Her hope was in a petition to the Queen, but being under arrest herself, she could not go to
the Queen in person, and had to approach her through her sister-in-law--a proud, haughty dame,
who received her in the most cold, discouraging manner, but who undertook to present the petition.
She then went to the prison again, but the head writer would not allow her to enter; and on
her return home she found that all the property in the mission-house was to undergo a scrutiny;
but this was humanely done, and was only inventoried, not seized--i.e. the King did not seize
it, but the officials helped themselves to whatever took their fancy.  The next day the Queen's
answer was obtained--"He is not to be executed; let him remain where he is."

The poor lady's heart fainted within her, but she thought of the widow and the unjust judge,
and persevered day after day in applying to every member of the royal family or of Government
to entreat for her husband's liberation.  The King's mother, sisters, and brother were all
interested in his favour, but none of them ventured to apply direct to the King lest they should
offend the favourite Queen.  All failed, but the hopes that from time to time were excited,
kept up the spirits of the sufferers. During the long weary months while the missionaries continued
in fetters, i.e. chained by the feet to a bar of bamboo, Mrs. Judson was often not allowed
to visit them for ten days at a time, and then only by walking to the prison after dark, two
miles, unattended.  She could, however, communicate with her husband by means of the provisions
she sent him daily.  At first she used to write on the dough of a flat cake, which she afterwards
baked and concealed in a bowl of rice, while he answered by writing on a tile, where the inscription
disappeared when dry but was visible when wet; but latterly they found it most convenient to
write on a roll of paper hidden in the long nose of a coffee-pot, in which tea was sent to
the prisoners.

Mrs. Judson delighted to send him little surprises, once a mince-pie, which Moung Ing carried
with the utmost pride to his imprisoned master. Mrs. Judson found herself obliged to wear the
native dress, though she was so much taller than the Burmese women that she could be hardly
taken for one of them.  It was a becoming dress; her hair was drawn into a knot on the forehead,
with a cocoa-blossom, like a white plume, drooping from it; a saffron vest open in front to
show a crimson tunic below; and a tight skirt of rich silk, sloping down behind, made her look
to advantage, so that her husband liked to remember her as she stood at his prison door.  She
never was allowed to come further.

For twenty days she was absent, and then she came with a tiny, pale, wailing, blue-eyed baby
on her breast.  Poor Judson, clanking up to the door in his chains to welcome his little daughter,
commemorated his feelings in some touching verses ending:--

   "And when in future years
   Thou know'st thy father's tongue,
   These lines will show thee how he felt,
   How o'er his babe he sung."

Every defeat by the European forces added to the perils of captives.  A favourite old general
named Bundoolah had promised, when sent to command the army against Rangoon, that he would
release all the white prisoners on his return as a conqueror; and when he was totally defeated,
the wrath of the Burmese was so great that at this time the King himself seems to have scarcely
acted at all.  He was gentle, indolent and indifferent, more intelligent than those around
him, scarcely a Buddhist in belief, and very kind-hearted: indeed Judson believed that it was
his interposition alone that prevented the lives of the captives from being taken at once;
but he was demoralized by self-indulgence, and allowed himself to be governed by his queen,
the daughter of a superintendent of gaols; and through her, by her brother, who was cruel,
rapacious and violent, and the chief author of all the sufferings inflicted on the prisoners.
Among these were seven or eight British officers, and the King had commanded that a daily allowance
of rice should be served to these, but scarcely half of it ever reached them; Mrs. Judson did
her best to supply them as well as her husband, but their health gave way under their sufferings,
and all died but one.

At the end of seven months, it was reported that the English army was advancing into the interior;
and in the passionate alarm thus excited, the English captives were all loaded with five pairs
of fetters and thrown into the common prison among Burman thieves and robbers,--a hundred in
a room without a window, and that in the hottest season of the year.  Mrs. Judson again besought
the governor to relieve them from this horrible condition, by at least allowing them to sit
outside the door, and he actually shed tears at her distress, but he told her that he had been
commanded to put them all to death privately, and that he was doing his best for them by massing
them with the rest.  The Queen's brother had really given this order, but the governor delayed
the execution in case they should be required of him by the King, and they continued in this
frightful state for a whole month, until Mr. Judson sickened with violent fever, and the governor
permitted him to be removed into a little bamboo room, six feet long and four wide, where his
wife was allowed to visit him and bring him food and medicine, she meantime living in a bamboo
house in the governor's compound, where the thermometer rose daily to 106 degrees, but where
she thought herself happy as she saw her husband begin to recover.

One day, however, when the governor had sent for her and was kindly conversing with her, a
servant came in and whispered to him that the white strangers had suddenly been taken away,
no one knew whither.  The governor pretended to be taken by surprise, but there could be no
doubt that he had occupied Mrs. Judson to hinder her from witnessing the removal; and it was
not till the evening that she learnt that the prisoners had been taken to Umerapoonah, whither
she proceeded with her three months old baby and one servant.  There she found that the prisoners
had been sent on two hours before to a sort of penal settlement called Oung-pen-lay, whither
she followed, to find her husband in a lamentable state.  He had been dragged out of his little
room, allowed no clothing but his shirt and trowsers, a rope had been tied round his waist,
and he had been literally driven ten miles in the hottest part of the day.  His feet were so
lacerated that he was absolutely falling, when a servant of one of the merchants tore a piece
from his turban, and this wrapped round his feet enabled him to proceed, but he could not stand
for six weeks after; indeed the scars remained for life.  In this state he lay chained to Dr.
Price.  The intention was to sacrifice them both, in order to obtain success for an intended
expedition; but before this could be done, a different woongye, or prime minister, came in,
and their condition was somewhat improved, for they only wore one bamboo, through two slits
in which their feet were forced, and they were allowed to crawl into the enclosure.  Meantime,
a poor lion, once a great favourite, which was thought to be connected with the lions on the
English colours, was placed in a bamboo cage in sight of the prisoners, and there starved to
death, in hopes of thus abating the force of the enemy.  When its carcase was removed, Mr.
Judson, at his own earnest entreaty, was allowed the reversion of its cage, and there, to his
great joy, Moung Ing brought him his MS. translation of part of the Burmese Bible, which he
had kept in his pillow at Ava till it was torn away by the jailors on his removal. The faithful
Ing, thinking only to secure a relic of his master, had picked up the pillow and secured the
treasure.

Solitude was the greatest boon to Judson, whose fastidious delicacy suffered greatly in the
thronged prison, but his faithful Ann was suffering terribly.  One of the little Burmese girls
who lived with her had caught the small-pox, and was very ill: Mrs. Judson inoculated the other
child and her own little Maria, but Maria's inoculation did not take effect, and she caught
the disease, and had it very severely.  Then Mrs. Judson herself fell ill of a fever, and remained
for two months unable to visit her husband, both of them owing all their food to the exertions
of their good Bengalee cook.  Poor little Maria was nearly starved, no milk was to be had,
and the only food she obtained was when the jailers were bribed to let her father carry her
round the village to beg a little nourishment from the nursing mothers.  Her moans at night
rent the heart of her sick mother, and it is scarcely possible to imagine how either survived.
By this time, the English troops were so far advancing that the King was reduced to negotiate,
and, being in need of an interpreter, he sent an order for Mr. Judson's release; but as his
wife was not named in it, she had great difficulty in effecting her departure, and half-way
through the journey a guard came down and carried him off to Ava without her.  Arriving next
day, she found him in prison, but under orders to embark in a little boat and go at once to
the camp at Maloun.  She hastened to prepare all that was needful for his comfort, but all
was stolen except a mattress, pillow, and one blanket.  The boat had no awning, and was so
crowded that there was no room to lie down for the three days and three nights of alternate
scorching heat and heavy dew; there was no food but a bag of refuse-rice, and the banks on
either side of the Irrawaddy were bordered with glittering white sand, which in sunlight emitted
a metallic glare intolerable to the eyes, and heat like a burning furnace.  The fever returned
upon Judson, and, when he reached Maloun, he was almost helpless; but he found himself lodged
in a small bamboo hut in the middle of the white sand, where he could not admit air by rolling
up the matting without letting in the distressing glare, and where the heat reflected from
the sand was like a furnace.  He could not stir when the officers came to summon him to the
presence of the Burmese general, and they thought it stubbornness, and threatened him; then
they brought him papers and commanded him to translate them, while he writhed in torture and
only longed that the fever in his brain would deprive him of his senses.  This it must have
done, for he had only a confused impression of feet around him, and of fancying that he was
going to be burnt alive, until he found himself on a bed in a somewhat cooler room. As he lay
there, papers were continually brought him to explain and translate, and he found that the
greatest difficulty was in making the Burmese understand that a State paper could mean what
it said, or that truth and honesty were possible.  Sometimes, as he tried to explain the commonest
principle: of good faith and fair dealing among Christian nations, his auditors would exclaim,
"That is noble," "That is as it should be;" but then they would shake their heads and say,
"The teacher dreams; he has a heavenly spirit, and so he thinks himself in the land of the
dwellers in heaven."

He remained here six weeks, suffering much at night from cold, for his only covering was a
small rug and his well-worn blanket.  Then, on the advance of the English, he was sent back
to Ava, but was marched straight to the court-house without being suffered to halt for a moment
at his own abode, to discover whether his wife was there.  He was placed in a shed, guarded
all day, and left without food, till Moung Ing found him out in the evening, and replied to
his questions, that the Mamma Judson and the child were well; yet there was something about
his manner that was unsatisfactory, and Judson, thinking it over, became terribly uneasy, and
in the morning, being sent for by the governor of the jail, obtained permission to go to his
own house.

At the door he saw a fat, half-naked Burmese woman with a child in her arms, so dark with dirt
that it never occurred to him that it could be his own; and entering, he found, lying across
the foot of the bed, his wife, ghastly white and emaciated, her hair all cut away, and her
whole appearance that of a corpse.  She woke as he knelt down by her in despair!  She had been
ill all this time with a horrible spotted fever. The day she had fallen ill, the Burmese woman
had offered to take charge of little Maria, and the Bengalee cook had attended on her.  Dr.
Price was released from prison and had cut off her hair, bled, and blistered her, but she could
hardly move when the tidings came of her husband being in the town, and she had sent Moung
Ing to him.  The husband and wife were at last together again, and Dr. Price was sent to conduct
the treaty at the English camp.

As soon as Sir Archibald Campbell heard of the sufferings of the Judsons, he demanded them
as well as the English subjects; but the King was aware that they were not English, and would
not let them go.  This attempt at a treaty failed; but its failure, and the alarm consequent
upon a report of the advance of the English, led to Mr. Judson's being sent off, almost by
force, with two officials, to promise a ransom if Ava were spared.  Sir Archibald Campbell
undertook that the city should not be attacked, provided his terms were complied with before
he reached it; and among these was the stipulation that not only English subjects, but all
foreigners should have free choice whether to go or to stay.  Some of the officials tried to
persuade Mr. Judson to stay, declaring that he would become a great man, but he could not refuse
the freedom offered him after such cruel sufferings, and he was wont to declare that the joy
of finding himself floating down the Irrawaddy in a boat with his wife and baby, made up for
their twenty-one months of peril and misery.

They were received with courtesy, and indeed with gratitude, respect, and veneration at the
English camp.  The Englishmen who had been in captivity bore witness to the kindness with which
Mrs. Judson had relieved their wants, as well as those of her husband: how she had brought
them food, mended their clothes, obtained new ones, and, as they believed, by her arguments
and appeals to the ignorant and barbarous Government, had not only saved their lives, but convinced
the authorities of the necessity of accepting the British terms of peace.

These terms included the cession of a large portion of the Burmese territory; and this it was
that decided the missionaries to leave Ava; for the state of exasperation and intolerance into
which this brought the Court, made it vain to think of continuing to give instruction where
they would be regarded with enmity and suspicion.  Meantime, the officers in the English camp,
who had not seen a lady for nearly two years, could not make enough of the graceful, gentle
woman, so pale and fragile, yet such a dauntless heroine, and always ready to exert herself
beyond her strength for every sufferer who came in her way.

There was a curious scene at a dinner given to the Burmese commissioners, in a magnificent
tent, with all the military pomp the camp could furnish. When Sir Archibald appeared with Mrs.
Judson on his arm, and seated her by his side, there was such a look of discomfiture on the
faces of the guests, that he asked her if they were not old acquaintance who had treated her
ill.  "That fellow with the pointed beard," he said, "seems taken with an ague fit."  Then
Mrs. Judson told how, when her husband lay in a burning fever with the five pairs of fetters,
she had walked several miles with a petition to this man, had been kept waiting till the noontide
sun was at its height, and not only was she refused, but as she departed her silk umbrella
was torn out of her hand by his greediness; and when she begged at least to let her have a
paper one to go home with, the officer only laughed at her, and told her that she was too thin
to be in danger of a sunstroke!  The English gentlemen could not restrain their countenances
at least from expressing their indignation; and the Burmese, who thought she was asking for
their heads, or to have them laid out in the sun with weights upon their chests, were yellow
with fright, and trembled visibly.  Mrs. Judson kindly turned to them with a smile, assuring
them that they had nothing to fear, and, on repeating her words to Sir Archibald Campbell,
he confirmed them to the frightened barbarians.

That visit to the English camp was one of the few spaces of comfort or repose in those busy
lives.  It concluded by the husband and wife being forwarded to their old home at Rangoon.

It was in the height of the war, when anxieties for the fate of Mr. and Mrs. Judson were at
the utmost, that, on the 4th of July, 1825, George Boardman and Sarah Hall were married, and
sailed for Calcutta, thinking it possible that they might find their predecessors martyred,
and that they were coming "to step where their comrades stood."

At Calcutta they found Mr. and Mrs. Wade, who had with great difficulty escaped, and soon after
they heard of the rescue of the Judsons, and welcomed Dr. Price.  Rangoon, in the meantime,
had been occupied by the English, and then besieged by the Peguans; the mission-house was ruined,
and the people dispersed, and Moung Shwaygnong had died of cholera, faithful to the last. 
The city was to be restored to the Burmese, and the King, though willing to employ Judson politically,
refused toleration to his subjects; so that, as the provinces on the Martaban river were to
be ceded to the English, it seemed wise to take advantage of the reputation which the Judsons
had established to found a mission-station under their protection in the new town of Amherst,
which Sir Archibald Campbell proposed to build on the banks of the Martaban river.

Hither was transported the old zayat of Rangoon; and Mount Ing, Moung Shwaba, and a few other
of the flock accompanied their teachers, to form the nucleus of the mission.  Sir Archibald
Campbell had made a great point of Mr. Judson's accompanying the English embassy that was to
conclude the treaty at Ava; and he, hoping to obtain something for the Christian cause, complied,
leaving that most brave and patient woman, his wife, with her little delicate girl, in a temporary
house in Amherst, which, as yet, consisted only of barracks, officers' houses, and fifty native
huts by the riverside in the space of freshly-cleared jungle. There she set to work with energy
that enfeebled health could not daunt, to prepare the way for the Wades and the Boardmans,
to superintend a little school, of which Moung Ing was master, and to have a house built for
her husband.

She had just moved into it, when she was attacked with remittent fever, and, though attended
by an English army surgeon and nursed by a soldier's wife, she sank under it, and died on the
24th of October, 1826.  She was buried under a hopia, or, as her friends loved to call it,
a hope tree; and the Wades, coming shortly after, took charge of poor little Maria, who lived
to be embraced by her father, on his arrival after three months' absence; but she continued
to pine away, and only survived her mother six months.

Judson endured patiently, thought of his wife's sufferings as gems in her crown, wrote cheerful
letters, and toiled indefatigably, without breaking down, but he was never the same man again.
Amherst was probably unhealthy, for several of the Rangoon converts died there, among them
one of the little Burmese girls who had been with Mrs. Judson throughout her troubles.  Those
who died almost always spoke with joy of their hope of seeing Mamma Judson in heaven.  "But
first," said one woman, "I shall fall down before the Saviour's feet, and thank Him for sending
us our teachers."

It was shortly before little Maria's death that Mr. and Mrs. Boardman arrived, bringing with
them a daughter born at Calcutta.  Moulmein, the town near at hand, was decided on as their
station, and they removed to a mission-house on the border of the jungle, about a mile from
the cantonments, with a beautiful range of hills behind them, and the river in front.  Opposite
lay the Burman province of Martaban, which had been desolated during the war, and was now the
haunt of terrible Malay pirates, who came and robbed in the town, and then fled securely to
the opposite bank, where they could not be pursued.  The English officers had entreated the
Boardmans to reside within the cantonments, but they wished to be among the people, so as to
learn the language more readily and become acquainted with them.

One night, Mrs. Boardman awoke and found the lamp gone out.  She rose and re-lighted it.  Every
box and drawer lay overthrown and rifled, nothing left but what the thieves deemed not worth
taking.  She turned round to the mosquito curtain which concealed her husband; it was cut by
two long gashes, the one close to his head, the other to his feet.  There the robber-sentry
must have kept watch, ready to destroy the sleepers if they had wakened for a moment!  Nearly
every valuable had been carried away, and not a trace of any was ever found.  After this, Sir
Archibald Campbell gave them a Sepoy guard; and, as population increased, the danger diminished.
Indeed, Amherst proved an unsuccessful attempt, and was gradually abandoned in favour of Moulmein,
which became the head-quarters both of Government and of the Mission.

The Boardmans were specially devoted to that, because of the work which regarded the Karens.
These were a wandering race who occupied a strip of jungle, a hilly country to the south of
Burmah, living chiefly by hunting and fishing, making canoes, and clothed in cotton cloth.
They had very scanty ideas either of religion or civilization, but were not idolaters, and
had a good many of what Judson calls the gentler virtues of savages, though their habits were
lazy and dirty.  They had been a good deal misused by the Burmese, but occasionally wandered
into the cities; and there Judson had asked questions about them which had roused the interest
of his Burman converts.  During the war, one of these Burmese found a poor Karen, named Ko-Thah-byoo,
in bondage for debt, paid the amount, made him his own servant, and, on the removal to Moulmein,
brought him thither.  He proved susceptible of instruction, and full of energy and zeal; and
not only embraced Christianity heartily himself, but introduced it to his tribe, and assisted
the missionaries in acquiring the language.

To be nearer to these people, the Boardmans removed to Tavoy, where they had a Burmese congregation;
and Mr. Boardman made an expedition among the Karens, who were, for the most part, by no means
unwilling to listen, and with little tradition to pre-occupy their minds, as well as intelligence
enough to receive new ideas.  At one place, the people were found devoted to an object that
was thought to have magic power, and which they kept with great veneration, wrapt up in many
coverings.  It proved to be an English Common Prayer Book, printed at Oxford, which had been
left behind by a Mahometan traveller.  On the whole, this has been a flourishing mission; the
Karens were delighted to have their language reduced to writing, and the influence of their
teachers began to raise them in the scale; but all was done under the terrible drawback of
climate.  Mrs. Boardman never was well from the time she landed at Moulmein, and her beautiful
flower-covered house at Tavoy was the constant haunt of sickness, under which her elder child,
Sarah, died, after showing all that precocity that white children often do in these fatal regions.
A little boy named George had by this time been born, and shared with his mother the dangers
of the Tavoy rebellion, an insurrection stirred up by a prince of the Burmese royal blood,
in hopes of wresting the province from the English.

One night, a Burmese lad belonging to the school close to the Boardmans' house, was awakened
by steps; and, peeping through the braided bamboo walls of his hut, saw parties of men talking
in an undertone about lost buffaloes.  Some went into the town, others gathered about the gate,
and, when their numbers began to thicken, a cloud of smoke was seen in the morning dawn, and
yells from a thousand voices proclaimed, "Tavoy has risen!"

Boardman awoke and rushed out to the door, but a friendly voice told him that no harm was intended
him.  The revolt was against the English, and never was a movement more perilous.  The commandant,
Colonel Burney, was absent at Moulmein, the English officer next in command was ill of a fatal
disease, the gunner was ill, and the whole defence of a long, straggling city was in the hands
of a hundred Sepoys, commanded by a very young surgeon, assisted by Mrs. Burney, who had a
babe of three weeks old.  The chief of the fight was at the powder magazine, not very far from
the Boardmans' abode.  It was attacked by two hundred men with clubs, knives, spears, but happily
with very few muskets, and defended by only six Sepoys, who showed great readiness and faithfulness.
Just as their bullets seemed to be likely to endanger the frightened little family, a savage-looking
troop of natives were seen consulting, with threatening gestures aimed at the mission-house,
and Mr. Boardman, fully expecting to be massacred, made his wife and her baby hide in a little
shed, crouching to escape the bullets; but this alarm passed off, and, at the end of an hour,
the whole of the gates had been regained by the Sepoys, and the attack on the magazine repulsed.
Mr. Boardman took this opportunity of carrying his family to the Government house, where they
were warmly welcomed by Mrs. Burney; but it was impossible to continue the defence of so large
an extent as the town occupied, and therefore the tiny garrison decided on retiring to a large
wooden building on the wharf, whither the Sepoys conveyed three cannon and as much powder as
they expected to want, throwing the rest down wells.  This was not done without constant skirmishing,
and was not completed till three o'clock, when the refugees were collected,--namely, a hundred
Sepoys, with their wives and children, stripped of all their ornaments, which they had buried;
some Hindoo and Burmese servants; a few Portuguese traders; a wily old Mussulman; Mrs. Boardman
and Mrs. Burney, each with her baby; and seven Englishmen besides Mr. Boardman.  Among them
rode the ghastly figure of the sick officer, who had been taken from his bed, but who hoped
to encourage his men by appearing on horseback; but his almost orange skin, wasted form, sunken
eyes, and perfect helplessness, were to Mrs. Boardman even more terrible than the yells of
the insurgents around and the shots of their scanty escort.

Three hundred persons were crowded together in the wooden shed, roofed over, and supported
on posts above the water, with no partitions.  The situation was miserable enough, but they
trusted that the enemy, being only armed with spears, could not reach them.  By and by, however,
the report of a cannon dismayed them.  The jingals, or small field-pieces, were brought up,
but not till evening; and the inexperienced rebels took such bad aim that all the balls passed
over the wharf into the sea, and the dense darkness put a stop to the attempt; but all night
the trembling inmates were awakened by savage yells; and a Sepoy, detecting a spark of light
through the chinks of the floor, fired, and killed an enemy who had come beneath in a boat
to set fire to the frail shelter!

In the morning the firing from the walls was renewed, but at long intervals, for there was
a great scarcity of powder, though the unhappy besieged apprehended every moment that the right
direction would be hit upon, and then that the balls would be among them.  They could send
nowhere for help, though there was a Chinese junk within their reach, for it could not put
to sea under the fire of the rebels; and two more days, and two still more terrible nights,
passed in what must have been almost a black hole.  The fifth night was the worst of all, for
the town was set on fire around, and by the light of the flames the enemy made a furious attack;
but just in time to prevent the fire from attaining the frail wooden structure, a providential
storm quenched it, and the muskets of the Sepoys again repulsed the enemy.  By this time the
provisions were all but exhausted, and there were few among even the defenders who were not
seriously ill from the alternate burning sun and drenching rain. Death seemed hovering over
the devoted wharf from every quarter; when at last, soon after sunrise on the fifth day, the
young doctor quietly beckoned the Colonel's wife to the door that opened upon the sea, and
pointed to the horizon, where a little cloudy thread of smoke was rising.

It was the steamer bringing Colonel Burney back, in perfect ignorance of the peril of Tavoy
and of his wife!  But he understood all at a glance. The women and children were instantly
transferred to the steamer, and she was sent back to Moulmein, but Colonel Burney and the few
men who came with him landed, and restored courage and spirit to the besieged.  Not only was
a breastwork thrown up to protect the wharf, but the Colonel led a trusty little band of Sepoys
to the wall where the cannon stood, recaptured them, and had absolutely regained Tavoy before
the tidings of the insurrection had reached Moulmein.  Mrs. Burney's babe died soon after the
steamer had brought the two mothers and their infants to their refuge; but little George Boardman
did not suffer any ill effects from these dreadful days and nights, and was, in fact, the only
child of his patents who outlived infancy.  Another son, born a few months afterwards, soon
ended a feeble existence, and Mrs. Boardman was ill for many months. Her husband, delicate
from the first, never entirely recovered the sufferings at the wharf; yet in spite of an affection
of the lungs, he would often walk twenty miles a day through the Karen villages, teaching and
preaching, and at night have no food but rice, and sleep on a mat on the floor of an open zayat.

The Moulmein station was a comparative rest, and the husband and wife removed thither to supply
the place of Judson and of the Wades, who were making another attempt upon Burmah Proper; the
Wades taking up their residence at Rangoon, and Judson going on to Prome, the ancient capital,
where he preached in the zayats, distributed tracts, and argued with the teachers in his old
fashion; but the Ava Government had become far more suspicious, and interfered as soon as he
began to make anything like progress, requesting the English officer now in residence at the
Court to remonstrate with him, and desire him not to proceed further than Rangoon. He was obliged
to yield, and again to float down the river in his little boat, baffled, but patient and hopeful.

A great change had come upon the bright, enthusiastic, lively young man who had set out, with
his beautiful Ann, to explore the unknown Eastern world.  Suffering of body had not altered
him so much as bereavement, and bereavement without rest in which to face and recover the shock.
A strong ascetic spirit was growing on him.  Already on his first return to Moulmein, after
joining in the embassy, he had thought it right to cut short the ordinary intercourse of society,
to which his residence in the camp had given rise, and had announced his intention in a letter
to Sir Archibald Campbell.  He was much regretted, for he was a particularly agreeable man;
and it is evident, both from all testimony and from the lively tone of his letters, that he
was full of good-natured sympathy, and, however sad at heart, was a cheerful and even merry
companion.

But through these years, throughout constant care and unrelaxed activity of mind and body,
his heart was aching for the wife he had no time to mourn; and the agony thus suppressed led
to an utter loathing for all that he thought held him back from perfect likeness to the glorified
Saint whom he loved.  He took delight in the most spiritual mystical writings he could find,--a
Kempis, Madame Guyon, Fenelon, and the like,--and endeavoured to fulfil the Gospel measure
of holiness.  He gave up his whole patrimony to the American Baptist Mission Board (now separate
from England and Serampore), mortified to the very utmost his fastidious delicacy by ministering
to the most loathsome diseases; and to crush his love of honour, he burnt a letter of thanks
for his services from the Governor-General of India, and other documents of the same kind.
He fasted severely, and having by nature a peculiar horror of the decay and mouldering of death,
he deemed it pride and self-love, and dug a grave beside which he would sit meditating on the
appearance of the body after death.  He had a bamboo hermitage on the borders of the jungle,
where he would live on rice for weeks together--only holding converse with those who came to
him for religious instruction; and once, when worn out with his work of translation, he went
far into the depths of the wildest jungle, near a deserted pagoda, and there sat down to read,
pray, and meditate.  The next day, on returning to the spot, he found a seat of bamboo, and
the branches woven together for a shelter.  Judson never learnt whose work this was, but it
was done by a loving disciple, who had overcome the fear of tigers to provide by night for
his comfort, though the place was thought so dangerous that his safety, during the forty days
that he haunted it, was viewed by the natives as a miracle.  He spent several months in retirement.
It was indeed four years after his bereavement, but it is plain that he was taking the needful
rest and calm that his whole nature required after the shock that he had undergone, but which
he had in a manner deferred until the numbers of workers were so increased that his constant
labour could be dispensed with.  He came forth from his retirement renovated in spirit, for
the second period of his toils.

Meantime, the Boardmans had returned to Tavoy, where they were eagerly welcomed by their Karen
flock, and found many candidates for baptism. Weak as he was, Mr. Boardman examined them. 
He was sometimes able to sit up in his chair and speak for himself, but oftener so weak that
his wife sat on his couch and interpreted his feeble whispers; but he was so happy that tears
of joy often filled his eyes.  The actual baptism, performed by going down into the water like
Philip with the Ethiopian, could hardly have been carried out by a man in his state; but Moung
Ing, who had been admitted to the pastorate, touched at Moulmein, on a mission to Mergui, and
undertook the baptisms.  The Karens carried Mr. Boardman to the water in his cot, along a street
filled with lamaseries, whence the yellow-clothed priests looked down in scorn, and the common
people hooted and reviled: "See! see your teacher, a living man borne as if he were already
dead!" with still worse unfeeling taunts.  The Christians, about fifty in number, reached the
spot, a beautiful lake, nearly a mile in circumference, and bordered by green grass overshadowed
by trees.  There they all knelt down and prayed, and then Moung Ing baptized the nineteen new
disciples, while the pastor lay pale and happy, and his wife watched him with her heart full
of the last baptism, when it had been he who poured the water and spoke the words.

Mr. Boardman lived on into the year 1831, and welcomed a new arrival from America, Francis
Mason and his wife, on the 23rd of January, and a week later set out to introduce the former
to the Karens, a band of whom had come down to convey the party.  Mr. Boardman was carried
on his bed, his wife in a chair, and on the third day they reached a spot where the Karens,
of their own accord, had erected a bamboo chapel beside a beautiful stream beneath a range
of mountains.  Nearly a hundred had assembled there, of whom half were candidates for baptism.
They cooked, ate, and slept in the open air, but they had made a small shed for Mr. Mason,
and another for the Boardmans, too small to stand upright in, and so ill-enclosed as to be
exposed to sun by day and cold air by night.

The sufferer rapidly became worse, but he had an ardent desire to see this last baptism, and
all the thirty-four women, who were sufficiently prepared, were baptized in his sight, though
he was so spent as scarcely to be able to breathe without the fan and smelling-bottle.  In
the evening he contrived to speak a few words of exhortation to the disciples, and to give
them each a tract or a portion of Scripture.  The next morning the party set out on their return,
but in the afternoon were overtaken by a great storm of thunder and lightning, with rain that
drenched his mattress and pillows; and when they reached a house, they found it belonged to
heathens, who would scarcely let the strange teacher lie in the verandah.

His cot was so wet that he was forced to lie on the bamboo floor, and the rain continued all
night.  A boat was expected at twelve the next day, and it was resolved to wait for this, while
the Tavoyans looked grimly on, and refused even to sell a chicken to make broth for the sick
man.  By nine o'clock he was evidently dying, and the Karens rubbed his hands and feet as they
grew cold.  Almost immediately after being conveyed to the boat, the last struggles came on,
and in a few minutes he had passed away.  He was buried at Tavoy, beside his little Sarah;
all the Europeans in the town attending, as well as a grateful multitude of Burmese and Karens.

   "The tree to which the frail creeper clung
      Still lifts its stately head,
   But he, on whom my spirit hung,
      Is sleeping with the dead,"

wrote Sarah Boardman; and her first thought was of course to go home with her child, but the
Masons had not learnt the languages, and had no experience, and, without her, there would be
no schools, no possibility of instruction for the converts of either people until they could
speak freely, and she therefore resolved not to desert her work.  She was keeping school, attending
to all comers, and interpreting from sunrise till ten o'clock at night, besides having the
care of her little boy, and her schools were so good that, when the British Government established
some, orders were given for conducting them on the same system.

She tried to learn Karen, but never had time, and it was the less needful that a little Burmese
was known to some Karens, and thus she could always have an interpreter.  She sometimes made
mission tours to keep up the spirit of the Karens till Mr. Mason should be qualified to come
among them.  Her little George was carried by her attendants, and there is a note to Mrs. Mason,
sent back from one of the stages of her journey, which shows what her travels must have been:
"Perhaps you had better send the chair, as it is convenient to be carried over the streams
when they are deep.  You will laugh when I tell you that I have forded all the smaller ones."
But there is scarcely any record of these journeys of hers, she was too modest and shy to dwell
on what only related to herself; and though she several times, with the help of her Burmese
interpreter, led the devotions of two or three hundred Karens, it was always with a sense of
reluctance, and only under necessity.

She had been a widow four years, when Adoniram Judson, who had returned from Rangoon, and was
about to take charge of the station at Moulmein, made her his second wife, on the 10th of April,
1834.  At the same time, an opportunity offered of sending little George back to America for
education; but year after year filled the house at Moulmein with other little ones,--careful
comforts, in that fatal climate, which had begun to tell on the health of both the parents.
Pain and sorrow went for little with this devoted pair.  To be as holy as the Apostles though
without their power, was the endeavour which Judson set before himself, and the work of such
a man was one of spirit that drew all to hear and follow him.  The Burmese converts were numbered
by hundreds, and one of the missionaries in the Karen country could write: "I no longer date
from a heathen land.  Heathenism has fled from these banks; I eat the rice and fruits cultivated
by Christian hands, look on the fields of Christians, see no dwellings but those of Christian
families.  I am seated in the midst of a Christian village, surrounded by a people that live
as Christians, converse as Christians, act as Christians, and, to my eyes, look like Christians."

All this, like every other popular conversion, involved many individual disappointments from
persons not keeping up to the Christian standard, and from coolness setting in when the excitement
of the change was over; and great attention had to be paid to rules, discipline, &c., as well
as to providing books and schools.  Judson himself had to work hard at the completion and correction
of the Burmese Bible, to which he devoted himself, the more entirely because an affection of
the throat and cough came on, and for some time prevented him from preaching.  In 1839, he
tried to alleviate it by a voyage to Calcutta, where he was received by both Bishop Wilson
and by the Marshman family at Serampore; but, as he observes, "the glory of Serampore had departed,"
and his stay there must have been full of sad associations.  His work upon the Scriptures was
finished in 1840, and he then began a complete Burmese dictionary, while his wife was translating
the Pilgrim's Progress; but both were completely shattered in health, and their children, four
in number, had all been brought low by the hooping cough, and then by other complaints.  A
voyage to Calcutta was imperatively enjoined on all; but it was stormy and full of suffering,
and soon after they arrived at Serampore their youngest child, little Henry, died.  A still
further voyage was thought advisable, and the whole family went as far as the Isle of France,
where they recovered some measure of health, and their toil at Moulmein was resumed. Four more
years passed, three more children were born, and then the strength that had been for nineteen
years so severely tried, gave way, and the doctors pronounced that Sarah Judson's life could
only be saved by a voyage to America.  The three elder children were to go with her, but the
three little ones were to remain, since their father only intended to go as far as the Isle
of France, and then return to his labour.

What a trumpet-note for a soldier to leave after nineteen years service "through peril, toil,
and pain," undaunted to the last!  For by the time the ship left the Isle of France, she was
fading so rapidly that her husband could not quit her, and sailed on with her to St. Helena.
She was fast dying, but so composed about her children, that some one observed that she seemed
to have forgotten the three babes.  "Can a mother forget?" was all her answer.  She died on
board the ship, at anchor in the bay of St. Helena, and was carried to the burial-ground, where
all the colonial clergy in the island attended, and she was laid beside Mrs. Chater, the wife
of that Serampore missionary whose expulsion had led to the first pioneering at Rangoon, and
who had since worked in Ceylon.  She was just forty-two, and died September 1st, 1845.

Her husband found her beautiful farewell; and, as he copied it out, he wrote after the last
verse, "Gird thine armour on," "And so, God willing, I will yet endeavour to do; and while
her prostrate form finds repose on the rock of the ocean, and her sanctified spirit enjoys
sweeter repose on the bosom of JESUS, let me continue to toil on all my appointed time, until
my change too shall come."

On the evening of the day of her burial, he sailed with the three children, and arrived at
Boston on the 15th of October, 1845.  He remained in his native country only nine months, and,
if a universal welcome could have delighted him, he received it to the utmost.  So little did
he know of his own fame, that, returning after thirty years, he had been in pain to know where
to procure a night's lodging at Boston, whereas he found half the city ready to compete for
the honour of receiving him, and every one wanted to meet him.  Places of worship where he
was to preach were thronged, and every public meeting where he was expected to speak was fully
attended; but all this fervour of welcome was a distress to him, his affection of the throat
made oratory painful and often impossible, and the mere going silently to an evening assembly
so excited his nerves that he could not sleep for the whole night after.  Any sort of display
was misery to him; he could not bear to sit still and hear the usual laudation of his achievements;
and, when distinguished and excellent men were introduced to him, he received them with chilling
shyness and coldness, too humble to believe that it was for his goodness and greatness that
they sought to know him, but fancying it was out of mere curiosity.

His whole desire was to get back to his work and escape from American notoriety, and, disregarding
all representations that longer residence in the north might confirm his health, he intended
to seize the first opportunity of returning to Moulmein.  But a wife was almost a necessity
both to himself and his mission, and even now, at his mature age and broken health, he was
able to win a woman of qualities almost if not quite equal to those of the Ann and Sarah who
had gone before her.

Emily Chubbuck, born in 1817, was the daughter of parents of the Baptist persuasion, living
in the State of New York.  She was the fifth child of a large family in such poor circumstances
that, when she was only eleven years old, she was sent to work at a woollen factory, where
her recollections were only of "noise and filth, bleeding hands and aching feet, and a very
sad heart;" but happily for her, the frost stopped the works during the winter months, and
she was able to go to school; and, after two years, the family removed to a country farm. 
They were all very delicate, and her elder sisters were one after the other slowly dying of
decline.  This, with their "conversions" and baptisms, deepened Emily's longing to give the
tokens required by her sect for Christian membership, but they came slowly and tardily with
her, and she quaintly told how one day she was addressed by one of the congregation whose prayers
had been asked for her, "What! this little girl not converted yet?  How do you suppose we can
waste any more time in praying for you?" Her intelligence was very great, and in 1832, when
her mother wanted her to become a milliner, she entreated to be allowed to engage herself as
a school teacher.  "I stood as tall as I could," she says, when she went to offer herself,
and she was accepted, although only fifteen.  The system was that of "boarding round"--i.e.
the young mistress had to live a week alternately at each house, and went from thence to her
school, but she found this so uncomfortable that she ended by sleeping at home every night.
She struggled on, teaching in various schools, doing needlework in after-hours, trying to improve
herself, and always contending with great delicacy of health, which must have made it most
trying to cope with what she calls in one of her letters "a little regiment of wild cats" for
about seven years, when some of the friends she had made obtained of two sisters who kept a
boarding school at Utica that she should be admitted there to pursue the higher branches of
study for a year or two, and then to repay them by her services as a teacher.

The two ladies, Miss Urania and Miss Cynthia Sheldon, and their widowed sister, Mrs. Anable,
proved Emily's kindest friends, and made a thoroughly happy home for her.  She was very frail
and nervous, but of great power of influence, and even while still only a pupil had this gift.
Here she spent the rest of her maiden days, and here she supplied the failure of her labours
in needlework by contributions to magazines, generally under the nom de plume of Fanny Forester.
They were chiefly poems and short tales, and were popular enough to bring in a sum that was
very important to the Chubbuck family.  The day's employment was very full, and she stole the
time required from her rest.  Late one night, Miss Sheldon seeing a light in the room looked
in, and found her trembling in nervous agitation, holding her head with her hands and her manuscript
before her; and when gently rebuked, and entreated to lie down at once, she exclaimed with
a burst of tears, "Oh!  Miss Urania, I must write; I must help my poor parents."

Her brave and dutiful endeavours prospered so much that she was actually able to buy a house
for them.  It was during her stay at Utica that she was baptized, and several of her writings
were expressly for the Baptist Sunday School Union; and though others were of a more secular
cast, all were such as could only be composed by a religious woman.  A little book of hers
fell into the hands of Dr. Judson, and struck him so much that he said, "I should be glad to
know her.  A lady who writes so well ought to write better."  She was then at Philadelphia,
and at the moment of his introduction to her was undergoing the process of vaccination.  As
soon as it was over he entered into conversation with her with some abruptness, demanding of
her how she could employ her talents in writings so trifling and so little spiritual as those
he had read.

Emily met the rebuke without offence, but defended herself by describing the necessity of her
case, with her indigent parents depending upon her; so that her work must almost of necessity
be popular and profitable, though, as a duty, she avoided all that could be of doubtful tendency.

The missionary was thoroughly softened, and not only acquitted her, but begged her to undertake
the biography of his wife Sarah: and this threw them much together.  He was fifty-seven, she
twenty-eight, when he offered himself to her in the following letter, sent with a watch:--

"I hand you, dearest, a charmed watch.  It always comes back to me, and brings its wearer with
it.  I gave it to Ann when a hemisphere divided us, and it brought her safely and surely to
my arms.  I gave it to Sarah during her husband's lifetime (not then aware of the secret),
and the charm, though slow in its operation, was true at last."

The charm worked.  Emily Chubbuck was ready to follow Dr. Judson to the deadly climate of Burmah,
to share his labours, and become a mother to the babies he had left there.

They were married on the 2nd of June, 1846, and five weeks later sailed for Burmah, leaving
the three children at school.

Emily seems to have differed from Ann and Sarah, in that she had less actual missionary zeal
than they.  Sarah at least was a missionary in heart, and, as such, became a wife; but Emily
was more the wife, working as her husband worked.  She had much more literary power than either;
her letters to her friends were full of vivid description, playful accounts of their adventures,
and lively colouring even of misfortunes, pain, and sickness.  She arrived at Moulmein in November.
One little boy had died during Dr. Judson's absence, but the other two were tenderly cared
for by the new Mrs. Judson, who threw herself into all the work and interests of the mission
with great animation.  It proved, however, that both the Burman and Karen missions were well
supplied with teachers; and Dr. Judson thought he should be more useful at Rangoon, where there
had, since one attempt on the part of the Wades, been no resident missionary. He heard accounts
of the Court which made him hope to recover a footing at Ava, and decided on again living at
Rangoon; but he soon heard that there was less hope than ever at Ava.  The king whom he had
known was dead, and had been succeeded by a devoted Buddhist, whose brother and heir, "having
been prevented from being a lama," writes Dr. Judson, "poor man! does all that he can.  He
descends from his prince-regal seat, pounds and winnows the rice with his own hands, washes
and boils it in his own cook-house, and then, on bended knees, presents it to the priests.
This strong pulsation at the heart has thrown fresh blood through the once shrivelled system
of the national superstition, and now every one vies with his neighbour in building pagodas
and making offerings to the priests.  What can one poor missionary effect, accompanied by his
yet speechless wife, and followed by three men and one woman from Moulmein, and summoning to
his aid the aged pastor of Rangoon and eight or ten surviving members of the church?"

The Vice-governor, or Raywoon, was a violent and cruel savage, whose house and court-yard rang
with shrieks from the tortured, and the old remnant of Christians were sadly scattered.  When
they were collected to worship on Sunday, they durst not either come in or go out in company,
and used to arrive with their garments tucked up to look like Coolies, or carrying fruit or
parcels, while the Karens crept down from the hills in small parties.  The Governor was friendly,
but a weak man, whose authority the Raywoon openly set at defiance; and all sorts of petty
annoyances were set in action against the teachers, while the probability that the converts
would suffer actual persecution daily increased.  Dr. Judson used to call the present difficulties
the Splugen Pass, and illness, of course, added to their troubles.

The great Buddhist fast of the year had never before been imposed on strangers, but now the
markets contained nothing but boiled rice, fruit, or decaying fish, and terrible illness was
the consequence both with themselves and the children, until some boxes of biscuit arrived
from Moulmein, and a Mahometan was bribed to supply fowls.

But the finances of the Society at home were at a low ebb, and it was thought needful to diminish
the number of stations.  The intolerance of the Burmese Government led to the decision that
there was less benefit in maintaining that at Rangoon than those in the British provinces;
and, as Dr. Judson had no private means, he was obliged to obey and return to Moulmein.  Here
he had a curious correspondence with the Prince of Siam, whose letter began in his own English:
"Venerable sir, having received very often your far-famed qualities, honesty, faithfulness,
righteousness, gracefulness, and very kindness to poor nation, &c., from reading the book of
your ancient wife's memoir and journal." . . . The object of this letter was to ask for some
of his Burmese translations, and, in return for them, his Royal Highness sent "a few artificial
flowers, two passion flowers, one mognayet or surnamed flower, and three roses manufactured
by most celebrated princess the daughter of the late second king or sub-king."

The Dictionary continued to be Judson's chief occupation, for his affection of the voice rendered
him unable to take charge of a congregation.  He continued to work at it till the November
of 1849, when he caught a severe cold, which brought on an attack of fever, and from that time
he never entirely rallied.

One of the last pleasures of his life deserves to be mentioned.  He had always had a strong
feeling for the Jews, and had longed to work for their conversion, praying that he might at
least do something towards it. After his last illness had begun, a letter was read to him by
his wife, giving an account of a German Jew who had been led, by reading the history of his
toils in Burmah in the Gospel cause, to study Christianity and believe.  "Love," he said presently,
his eyes full of tears, "this frightens me.  I do not know what to make of it."  "What?"  "What
you have just been reading.  I never was deeply interested in any object; I never prayed sincerely
and fervently for anything, but it came at some time--no matter how distant a day--somehow,
in some shape, probably the last I should have devised, it came.  And yet I have always had
so little faith."

After spending a month at Amherst in the vain hope of improvement, a sea- voyage was recommended;
but his reluctance was great, for his wife was expecting a second child, and could not go with
him.  There are some lines of hers describing her night-watches, so exquisite and descriptive,
that we must transcribe them:--

   "Sleep, love, sleep!
   The dusty day is done.
   Lo! from afar the freshening breezes sweep
   Wide over groves of balm,
   Down from the towering palm,
   In at the open casement cooling run;
   And round thy lowly bed,
   Thy bed of pain,
   Bathing thy patient head,
   Like grateful showers of rain
   They come;
   While the white curtains, waving to and fro,
   Fan the sick air;
   And pityingly the shadows come and go,
   With gentle human care,
   Compassionate and dumb.
   The dusty day is done,
   The night begun;
   While prayerful watch I keep,
   Sleep, love, sleep!
   Is there no magic in the touch
   Of fingers thou dost love so much?
   Fain would they scatter poppies o'er thee now;
   Or, with its mute caress,
   The tremulous lip some soft nepenthe press
   Upon thy weary lid and aching brow;
   While prayerful watch I keep,
   Sleep, love, sleep!

   On the pagoda spire
   The bells are swinging,
   Their little golden circlet in a flutter
   With tales the wooing winds have dared to utter,
   Till all are ringing,
   As if a choir
   Of golden-nested birds in heaven were singing;
   And with a lulling sound
   The music floats around,
   And drops like balm into the drowsy ear;
   Commingling with the hum
   Of the Sepoy's distant drum,
   And lazy beetle ever droning near.
   Sounds these of deepest silence born,
   Like night made visible by morn;
   So silent that I sometimes start
   To hear the throbbings of my heart,
   And watch, with shivering sense of pain,
   To see thy pale lids lift again.

   The lizard, with his mouse-like eyes,
   Peeps from the mortise in surprise
   At such strange quiet after day's hard din;
   Then boldly ventures out,
   And looks around,
   And with his hollow feet
   Treads his small evening beat,
   Darting upon his prey
   In such a tricksy, winsome sort of way,
   His delicate marauding seems no sin.
   And still the curtains swing,
   But noiselessly;
   The bells a melancholy murmur ring,
   As tears were in the sky:
   More heavily the shadows fall,
   Like the black foldings of a pall,
   Where juts the rough beam from the wall;
   The candles flare
   With fresher gusts of air;
   The beetle's drone
   Turns to a dirge-like, solitary moan;
   Night deepens, and I sit, in cheerless doubt, alone."

In spite of all this tender care, Dr. Judson became so much worse that, as a last resource,
a passage was taken for him and another missionary, named Ramney, on board a French vessel
bound for the Isle of Bourbon.  The outset of the voyage was very rough, and this produced
such an increase of illness, that his life closed on the 12th of April, 1850, only a fortnight
after parting from his wife, though it was not for four months that she could be informed of
his loss.  During this time she had given birth to a dead babe, and had suffered fearfully
from sorrow and suspense.

She had become valuable enough to the mission for there to be much anxiety to retain her, and
at first she thought of remaining; but her health was too much broken, and in a few months
she carried home her little girl and her two step-sons.  She collected the family together,
and spent her time in the care of them, and in contributing materials for the Life of her husband;
but the hereditary disease of her family had already laid its grasp on her, and she died on
the 1st of June, 1854, the last of a truly devoted group of workers, as remarkable for their
cheerfulness as for their heroism.

CHAPTER VII.  THE BISHOPRIC OF CALCUTTA: THOMAS MIDDLETON, REGINALD HEBER, DANIEL WILSON.

Perhaps dying in a cause is the surest way of leading to its success. Henry Martyn was sinking
on his homeward journey, while in England the renewal of the Charter of the East India Company
was leading to the renewal of those discussions on the promotion of religion in Hindostan which
had been so entirely quashed twenty years before, in 1793.  Claudius Buchanan had published
his "Christian Researches," the Life of Schwartz had become known, the labours of Marshman
and Carey were reported, and the Legislature at length attended to the representations, made
through Archbishop Manners Sutton, by the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge, and consented
to sanction the establishment of a branch of the Church, with a Bishop to govern it at Calcutta,
and an Archdeacon there and also at Madras and Bombay; the Bishop to have 5,000l. a year but
no house, and each Archdeacon 2,000l.  Such was all that the efforts of Wilberforce could wring
from the East India Company for a diocese, in length twenty degrees, in breadth ten, and where
the inconvenience of distances was infinitely increased by the difficulties and dangers of
travelling.

One excuse for the insufficiency of this provision had more weight with the supporters of the
Church than we can understand.  England had for more than a thousand years been accustomed
to connect temporal grandeur with the Episcopacy; a Bishop not in the House of Lords seemed
an anomaly, and it was imagined that to create chief pastors without a considerable endowment
would serve to bring them into contempt; whereas to many minds, that very wealth and station
was an absolute stumbling- block.  However, a beginning was made, and a year after Henry Martyn's
death, in 1814, the first of the Colonial Bishops of England was appointed, namely, Thomas
Fanshaw Middleton, the son of a Derbyshire clergyman, who had been educated at Christ's Hospital,
and Pembroke College, Cambridge, and had since been known as an excellent Greek scholar, and
an active clergyman in the diocese of Lincoln.  Thence he removed to the rectory of St. Pancras,
London, where he strove hard to accomplish the building of a new church, but could not succeed,
such was the dead indifference of the period.  He was also Archdeacon of Huntingdon, and one
of a firmly compacted body of friends who were doing much in a resolute though quiet way for
the awakening of the nation from its apathy towards religion.  Joshua Watson, a merchant, might
be regarded as the lay-manager and leader, as having more leisure, and more habit of business
than the clergy, with and for whom he worked.  This is no place for detailing their home labours,
but it may be well to mention that to their exertions we owe the National Society for the education
of the poor, and likewise that edition of the Holy Scriptures, with notes, which is commonly
known as Mant's Bible.  They were the chief managers at that time of the Society for Promoting
Christian Knowledge; and when, in 1813, a Danish missionary was sent out by that Society to
take charge of the congregations left by Schwartz and his colleagues, it was Archdeacon Middleton
who was selected to deliver a charge to him.  It was a very powerful and impressive speech,
and perhaps occasioned Dr. Tomline, Bishop of Lincoln, to recommend the speaker to the Earl
of Buckinghamshire for the bishopric created the next year.

The office would be, humanly speaking, most trying, laborious and perplexing, and neither Archdeacon
Middleton's age (forty-five) nor his habits inclined to enthusiasm.  He shrank from it at first,
then "suspected," as he says, "that I had yielded to some unmanly considerations," and decided
that it was his duty to accept the charge as a call from his Master.  He was consecrated in
the chapel at Lambeth, by Archbishop Manners Sutton, with the Bishops of London, Lincoln, and
Salisbury assisting.  The sermon was preached by Dr. Rennell, Dean of Winchester, but was withheld
from publication for the strange reason that there was so strong an aversion to the establishment
of episcopacy in India, that it was thought better not to attract attention to the fact that
had just been accomplished.

Bishop Middleton, his wife, and two of his Archdeacons (the third was already in India) sailed
on the 8th of June, 1814, and they landed at Calcutta on the 28th of November.  There was no
public reception, for fear of alarming the natives, though, on the other hand, they were found
to entertain a better opinion of the English on finding they respected their own religion.
The difficulties of the Bishop's arrival were increased by the absence of Lord Moira, the Governor-General,
who was engaged in the Nepaulese war; and as no house had been provided for the Bishop, he
had to be the guest of Mr. Seton, a member of the Council, till a house could be procured,
at a high rent.

One of the first visitors was a Hindoo gentleman, who told him, "Sir William Jones was a great
man and understood our books, but he attended only to our law.  Your lordship will study our
religion; your people mistake our religion; it is not in our books.  The Brahminee religion
and your lordship's are the same; we mean the same thing."

The man seems to have been one of those of whom there are now only too many in India, who have
thrown off their old superstitions only to believe in nothing, save the existence of a Supreme
Being, and who fancy that all other religions can be simplified into the like.  This is the
class that has, for the seventy years during which Christianity has been preached in earnest,
been the alternate hope and anxiety of the missionary; intellectually renouncing their own
paganism, but withheld by the prejudices of their families from giving up the heathenish customs
of caste; admiring divine morality, but not perceiving the inability of man to attain the standard;
and refusing to accept the mysteries in the supernatural portion of Revelation.  Such was probably
Serfojee; such was the celebrated Brahmin Ram Mohun Roy, with whom Bishop Middleton had much
discussion, and of whom he had at one time many hopes, a man of very remarkable powers of mind
and clear practical intelligence.  Roy's endeavour at first was to purify the native forms
of religion, and, recurring to the Vedas, to find a high philosophy in them; but he and the
friends he gathered round him soon became convinced that these contained no system of reasonable
theology, still less of morality, and they then constructed for themselves a theory culled
from Christianity, but rejecting whatever did not approve itself to their intellect, in especial
the holy mysteries regarding the nature of the Godhead and the Incarnation of our Lord.  This
teaching, called Brahmoism, from Brahma, the purest and highest of Hindoo divinities, is, under
another form, the Neo-Platonism of the Greeks, or the Soofeeism of the Persians.  There was
even the germ of it in the grotesque medicine-man encountered by David Brainerd.  It is the
form of opposition which the spirit of evil always stirs up, wherever the natural character
is elevated enough to appreciate the beauty of Christian morality.  It only prevails where
there are refined and cultivated men, afraid of all belief in the supernatural, as a humbling
of their intellect to superstition; and just at present a form of it is very prevalent in India,
owing to the amount of education which the natives receive, which uproots the old belief, but
does not always implant the new.  Whether it will become a stepping-stone to Christianity,
or whether it has substance to become a separate sect, remains to be proved.

To return to Bishop Middleton.  He knew when he left home that his work would be heavy, and
that to set in order the things that were wanting must be his first undertaking; but no words
could have conveyed the dead weight of care and toil that lay on him.  The huge diocese was
shamefully deficient in all that was needful for the keeping up of religious ordinances; the
Company's chaplains, few in number, were stationed at immense distances apart, and for the
most part had no attempt at a proper church for their congregations.  Verandahs or dining-rooms
were used on Sundays; and at Meerut, an edifice was actually built for the purpose of a riding-school
in the week, and a place of worship on Sunday.  Moreover, these chaplains were accustomed to
look to the Governor-General as their only superior, and, living so far apart, each followed
his own independent line of action, as if entirely unaccountable.  Some, such as Mr. Corrie
at Cawnpore, were admirable and earnest men; but Henry Martyn's successor at Dinapore had let
the place sink into a lamentable state, and there were several chaplains who greatly resented
the being brought under authority.  The brunt of the battle fell of course upon the first Bishop,
and being a man as sensitive as he was firm, it tried him severely.  His entreaty was constantly
for more men; and in order to obtain a ministry beyond that which the East India Company would
provide for, he occupied himself in procuring the foundation of Bishop's College, close to
Calcutta, a seminary where young men, both European and native, could receive a good theological
and classical education, and be prepared for Holy Orders.  The Society for Promoting Christian
Knowledge granted 5,000l. for the purpose, and private subscriptions came in, until on the
15th of December, 1820, the Bishop was enabled to lay the foundation- stone of an institution
that has, now for half a century, admirably answered its purpose.

It has long been found that Christianity cannot take root without a native ministry, and Bishop
Middleton was most anxious to ordain such catechists of Schwartz's training as were ready;
but he found great technical difficulties in the way, since the ordination form in the Prayer
Book left no opening for persons who, not being British subjects, could not be expected to
take the oaths of allegiance and supremacy; and, moreover, it was not certain what language
ought to be used with men not speaking English.  The arrangement of these difficulties hindered
him from ordaining Christian David, the godson and pupil of Schwartz, and a subject of Tanjore,
on his visitation to the Presidency.  This good man met him, together with the minister of
Palamcotta, bringing a deputation about thirty in number.  The minister was an exceedingly
dark man, with a very interesting countenance.  Addresses, interpreted by Christian, were made
on either side, and the thirty sang a psalm of thanksgiving in Tamul.  They were only a small
deputation, for there were several Christian villages in Tinnevelly, with churches built of
unburnt brick, and roofed with palmyra leaves, where the English Liturgy was used, having been
translated into Tamul by David.

At Tanjore, the Bishop was received in the most friendly manner by Serfojee, who came down
from his throne to welcome him, and caused Mrs. Middleton to be conducted to visit the ladies
of his zenana.  He conducted the Bishop into his library, which contained books in various
European languages; also on medicine and anatomy, this being his favourite study, to assist
him in which he had an ivory skeleton.  He returned the visit in great state, with six elephants,
two of enormous size, going before him, and accompanied by his troops, with a wild, horrid
dissonance of cannon and native music.  Two thousand persons escorted the Rajah to the Bishop's
tent, where he conversed very sensibly on various subjects, especially English history, or
as he called it, "the Generations of English Kings."  He was keeping up the good works he had
established, under the encouragement of the British resident, Colonel Blackburne, and in this
district the native Christians numbered about 500, who were under the direction of Schwartz's
companion, Pohle.

On the Malabar coast Bishop Middleton had much intercourse with the Christians of St. Thomas,
visited their churches, and held much conversation with their Bishop, convincing himself that
the distinctive tenets of Nestorianism had died out among them, and arranging for their receiving
assistance in books and teachers.

His visit to Ceylon followed, and was always regarded by him as a time of much gratification;
the good Governor, Sir Robert Brownrigg, had done so much for the improvement of the people,
and the missions were flourishing so well.  Here Christian David became a catechist, and on
the Bishop's second visitation, in 1821, he ordained as deacon a man named Armour, whose history
one longs to know more fully.  He had come out to Ceylon originally as a private soldier, and
finding a number of natives, probably the remnant of the Dutch Mission, whose profession of
Christianity was only nominal, he had taken upon himself "almost the work of an evangelist,"
never varying from the teaching and services of the English Church.  He had taught himself
to speak and preach fluently in Cingalese, and could use the Dutch and Portuguese languages
freely.  He had even some knowledge of Latin and Greek, and was so staunch Churchman that he
had resisted all invitations from the Baptists to join them.  He had gone through frightful
difficulties and dangers in the swamp and the jungle, and travelled thousands of miles; and
when he came to the Bishop it was with deep humility, and the hope that he had not been presumptuous
in taking on himself the charge of souls without sanction.  It was his great desire to obtain
this commission, and the Bishop, finding how sound in faith, pious, and excellent he was, admitted
him to deacon's orders before leaving Colombo.

Ceylon was erected into an archdeaconry and attached to the Bishopric of Calcutta, and shortly
after the same arrangement was made respecting Australia--an archdeaconry a great deal larger
than the continent of Europe!  Thence Bishop Middleton received and attended to the petition
of the Rev. Samuel Marsden, a devoted worker in the vineyard, of whom our next chapter will speak.

Distinct missionary labour was scarcely possible to a man overtasked like Bishop Middleton.
The district that kept St. Paul in continual "journeyings often" would have been but a quarter
of that which depended on him for "the care of all the churches," and the long journeys by
sea and land were by far the least harassing part of his life; for he had to fight the battles,
sometimes of his Church, sometimes of the whole Christian cause, with unfair and prejudiced
officials, and a malignant newspaper press, by which the bitterest attacks were circulated
against him and his doings.  And, "besides those things that were without," there were the
troubles of dealing with men used to do "that which was right in their own eyes," and determined
to oppose or neglect one whose powers could only thoroughly be defined by actual practice.
To go into these conflicts would be wearisome and vain.  They have lost their interest now;
but it must be remembered that it is by manfully and firmly enduring vexations such as these,
that systems are established which form the framework and foundation of more visible labours,
which gain more praise for those who are allowed to carry them out.

The constant wearing effort, the daily vexation, the inability to gain support, the binding
of his hands from free action by the machinery of State regulations only applicable to home
ecclesiastics, the continual making beginnings that never were allowed to progress--or, as
he himself called it, the continual rolling of the stone of Sisyphus--could not but exhaust
his powers, above all in such a climate; and that same sickly summer of 1822 which proved fatal
to Felix Carey was his last.  In July, one of his clergy, on whom he had been obliged to pass
censure, instituted proceedings against him in the Supreme Court--a most improper and disloyal
act, which much grieved and agitated him.  He had to spend eight hours in writing in preparation
for this painful matter, and afterwards went out in the carriage with his wife, but too early
in the evening, for the slanting rays of the sun, not yet down, fell full on him, and their
force is always especially dreaded at that damp and sickly season.  He immediately said that
the sun had struck him, and returned home; a most distressing fever, chiefly on the nerves,
and accompanied by grievous restlessness and afterwards delirium, set in, and he died on the
8th of July, 1822, in his fifty-fourth year, absolutely worn out by toil and worry.  But his
career had established both the needfulness and the position of a Bishop, and his successor
was appointed without the same opposition, still to a path perhaps only less thorny because
briefer.

Of a Yorkshire family, where the eldest son was always bred up as the country gentleman, the
younger ones usually prepared to hold the family livings, Reginald Heber was born on the 21st
of April, 1783, at Malpas, in Cheshire, a rectory held by his father, who was the clerical
second son, but soon after became head of the house by the death of his squire- brother.  He
was twice married, and had a son by his first wife, so that Reginald was born, as it were,
to the prospect of taking Holy Orders; and this fact seems to have in a certain degree coloured
his whole boyhood, and acted as a consecration, not saddening, but brightening his life.

A happy, eager, docile childhood seems to have been his; so obedient, that when an attack on
the lungs necessitated the use of very painful remedies, the physician said that the chances
of his recovery turned upon his being the most tractable of children; and with such a love
and knowledge of the Bible that, when only five years old, his father could consult him like
a little Concordance, and withal full of boyish mirth and daring.  When sent to school at Neasdon,
he was so excited by the story of an African traveller overawing a wild bull by the calm defiance
of the eye, as to attempt the like process upon one that he found grazing in a field, but without
the like success; for he provoked so furious a charge that he was forced to escape ignominiously
over a high paling, whence he descended into a muddy pond.

Neasdon was the place of education of his whole boyhood, among twelve other pupils.  Mr. John
Thornton, the schoolfellow friend and correspondent of his life, describes him as having been
much beloved there.  He had no scruple as to fighting rather than submitting to tyranny from
a bigger boy, but his unfailing good nature and unselfishness generally prevented such collisions;
he was full of fun, and excellent at games of all sorts; and though at one time evil talk was
prevalent among the boys, his perfect purity of mind and power of creating innocent amusement
destroyed the habit, without estranging the other lads from him.  He took many of his stories
from books not read by them, for he was an omnivorous reader, taking special delight in poetry,
loving nothing better than a solitary walk with Spenser's "Faerie Queen" in his hand, and often
himself composing verses above the average for so young a boy.

He was always thoughtful, and there is a letter of his to his friend Thornton, written when
only seventeen, which shows that he had begun to think over Church questions, was deeply sensible
of the sacredness of the apostolical commission to the ministry, and of the evils of State
interference.  That same year, 1800, began his University education, at Brasenose College,
Oxford.  His course there was alike blameless in life and brilliant in scholarship; his talents
and industry could not fail to secure him honours in the schools.

Another young man was at the very same time at Oxford, whose course had been steered thither
with more difficulties than Reginald Heber's.  Daniel Wilson's father was a wealthy silk manufacturer,
at Spitalfields, where he was born in the year 1778.  He was educated at a private school at
Hackney, kept by a clergyman named Eyre, who must have had a good deal of discernment of character,
for he said, "There is no milk and water in that boy.  He will be either something very bad
or very good."  One day, when he was in an obstinate and impracticable state of idleness, Mr.
Eyre said, "Daniel, you are not worth flogging, or I would flog you," which so stung him that
he never fell into similar disgrace again; nay, one morning when he had failed in his appointed
task, he refused food saying, "No!  If my head will not work, my body shall not eat."  He had
considerable powers, and when his own theme on a given subject was finished, would find "sense"
for all the dull boys--varying the matter but keeping to the point in all: but his education
ceased at fourteen, when he was bound apprentice to his uncle, who followed the same trade
as his father, and lived in Cheapside.  He was a widower with seven children, one of whom in
after years became Daniel's wife.  It was a strictly religious household, and whereas Daniel's
parents had been wont to attend church or meeting as suited them best, his uncle was a regular
churchman, and took his whole family constantly with him, as decidedly as he kept up discipline
in his warehouse, where the young men had so little liberty, that for weeks together they never
had occasion to put on their hats except on Sunday.

Daniel was a thoughtless, irreverent lad, full of schoolboy restlessness when first he came;
but though he was at first remarkable for his ill- behaviour in church, his attendance insensibly
took effect upon him, as it brought his mind under the influence of the two chief powers for
good then in London, John Newton and Richard Cecil.  The vehement struggle for conversion and
sense of individual salvation that their teaching deemed the beginning of grace took place,
and he turned for aid to them and to his old schoolmaster, Mr. Eyre.  It was from his hands
in 1797, at the age of nineteen, that he received his first Communion, with so much emotion
and such trembling, that he writes to his mother, "I have no doubt I appeared very foolish
to those about me," but he adds in another letter to a friend that it had been the happiest
day of his life.  "And to you I confess it," he says, "(though it ought perhaps to be a cause
for shame,) that I have felt great desire to go or do anything for the love of JESUS, and that
I have even wished, if it were the Lord's will, to go as a missionary to foreign lands."

It is very remarkable that this thought should have occurred at such a moment to one who only
became a missionary thirty-five years later, at a summons from without, not from within.  The
distinct mission impulse passed away, but a strong desire remained to devote himself to the
ministry of the Church.  He tried to stifle it at first, lest it should be a form of conceit
or pride; but it only grew upon him, and at last he spoke to Mr. Eyre, who promised to broach
the subject to his parents.

His father was strongly averse to it, as an overthrow to all his plans, and Mr. Eyre, after
hearing both sides, said that he should give no opinion for a year; it would not hurt Daniel
to remain another year in the warehouse, to fulfil the term of his apprenticeship, and it would
then be proper time to decide whether to press his father to change his mind.  It was a very
sore trial to the young man, who had many reasons for deeming this sheer waste of time, though
he owned he had not lost much of his school learning, having always loved it so much as to
read as much Latin as he could in his leisure hours.  He submitted at first, but was uneasy
under his submission, and asked counsel from all the clergymen he revered, who seem all to
have advised him to be patient, but to have urged his father to yield, which he finally did
before the year was out; so that Daniel Wilson was entered at St. Edmund's Hall, Oxford, on
the 1st of May, 1798.  He struggled with the eagerness of one whose desire had grown by meeting
with obstacles.  In order to acquire a good Latin style, he translated all Cicero's letters
into English, and then back into Latin; and when he went up for his degree, he took, besides
his Latin and Greek books, the whole Hebrew Bible, but was only examined in the Psalms.  He
gained a triumphant first-class, and the next year, 1803, he carried off the English prose
essay prize.  The theme was "Common Sense."  He had not in the least expected to gain the prize,
and had not even mentioned the competition to his friends, so that their delight and surprise
were equal.  That same year, Reginald Heber was happy in the subject for Sir Roger Newdegate's
prize for English verse, namely, "Palestine," which in this case had fallen to a poet too real
to be crushed by the greatness of his subject.

Reginald Heber was used to society of high talent and cultivation.  His elder brother, Richard,
was an elegant scholar and antiquary, and was intimate with Mr. Marriott, of Rokeby; with Mr.
Surtees, the beauty of whose forged ballads almost makes us forgive him for having palmed them
off as genuine; and with Walter Scott, then chiefly known as "the compiler of the 'Border Minstrelsy,'"
but who a few years later immortalized his friendship for Richard Heber by the sixth of his
introductions to "Marmion,"--the best known, as it contains the description of the Christmas
of the olden time.

Just as Reginald was finishing his prize poem, Scott was on a tour through England, and breakfasted
at Richard Heber's rooms at Oxford, when on the way to lionize Blenheim.  The young brother's
poem was brought forward and read aloud, and Scott's opinion was anxiously looked for.  It
was thoroughly favourable, "but," said Scott, "you have missed one striking circumstance in
your account of the building of the Temple, that no tools were used in its erection."

The prose essay on "Common Sense" was first recited from the rostrum in the Sheldonian theatre,
and Wilson always remembered the hearty applause of the young man who sat waiting his turn.
But the effect of the recitation of "Palestine" was entirely unrivalled on that as on any other
occasion.

On flowed the harmonious lines, looking back to the call of the Chosen, the victory of Joshua,
the glory of Solomon, the hidden glory of the Greater than Solomon, the crime of crimes, the
destruction, the renewal by the Empress Helena, the Crusades, and after a tribute (excusable
at the time of excitement) to Sir Sidney Smith's defence of Acre, gradually rising to a magnificent
description of the heavenly Jerusalem.

   "Ten thousand harps attune the mystic throng,
   Ten thousand thousand saints the strain prolong.
   'Worthy the Lamb, omnipotent to save!
   Who died, Who lives triumphant o'er the grave."

The enthusiasm, the hush, the feeling, the acclamations have ever since been remembered at
Oxford as unequalled.  Heber's parents were both present, and his mother, repairing at once
in her joy to his rooms, found him kneeling by his bedside, laying the burthen of honour and
success upon his God.  His father, recently recovered from illness, was so overcome and shaken
by the pressure of the throng and the thunder of applause as never entirely to recover the
fatigue, and he died eight months later, early in 1804.

The two youths who were in juxtaposition at the rostrum were not to meet again.  Daniel Wilson
was ordained to the curacy of Chobham, under Mr. Cecil, an excellent master for impressing
hard study on his curates.  He writes: "What should a young minister do?  His office says,
'Go to your books, go to retirement, go to prayer.'  'No,' says the enthusiast, 'go to preach,
go and be a witness.'"

"'A witness of what?'

"'He don't know!'"

While Wilson worked under Cecil, Heber, who was still too young for the family living of Hodnet,
in Shropshire, after taking his bachelor's degree, obtaining a fellowship at All Souls College,
and gaining the prize for the prose essay, accompanied John Thornton on a tour through northern
and eastern Europe, the only portions then accessible to the traveller; and, returning in 1806,
was welcomed at home by his brother's tenants with a banquet, for which three sheep were slaughtered,
and at which he appeared in the red coat of the volunteer regiment in which he had taken an
eager share during former years.

It was his last appearance in a military character, for in 1807 he was ordained, and entered
on his duties as Rector of Hodnet.  Two years later he married Amelia Shipley, the daughter
of the Dean of St. Asaph. Floating thus easily into preferment, without a shoal or rock in
his course, fairly wealthy, and belonging to a well-esteemed county family, connected through
his brother with the very elite of literary society, it seemed as though, in the laxity of
the early part of the century, Reginald Heber could hardly have helped falling into the indolence
of learned ease, the peril of the well-beneficed clergy of his day, especially among those
who had not accepted the peculiarities of the awakening school of the period.

But such was not the case.  He was at once an earnest parish priest, working hard to win his
people, not only to attend at church, but to become regular communicants, and to give up their
prevalent evil courses. We find him in one letter mentioning the writing of an article on Pindar
in the Quarterly Review, planning for a village-school on the Lancastrian principle, and endeavouring
to improve the psalmody.  "At least," he says, "I have a better reason to plead for silence
than the Cambridge man who, on being asked in what pursuit he was then engaged, replied that
he was diligently employed in suffering his hair to grow."

These "endeavours to improve the psalmody" were a forestalling of the victory over the version
of Tate and Brady.  The Olney Hymns, produced by Cowper, under the guidance of John Newton,
had been introduced by Heber on his first arrival in the parish, but he felt the lack of something
more thoroughly in accordance with the course of the Christian year, less personal and meditative,
and more congregational.  Therefore he produced by degrees a series of hymns, which he described
as designed to be sung between the Nicene Creed and the Sermon, and to be connected in some
degree with the Collects and Gospels for the day.  Thus he was the real originator in England
of the great system of appropriate hymnology, which has become almost universal, and many of
his own are among the most beautiful voices of praise our Church possesses.  We would instance
Nos. 135 and 263 in "Hymns Ancient and Modern,"--that for the 21st Sunday after Trinity, a
magnificent Christian battle-song; and that for Innocents' Day, an imitation of the old Latin
hymn "Salvete flores Martyrum."  They were put together, with others by Dean Milman and a few
more, into a little volume, which Heber requested Dr. Howley, then Bishop of London, to lay
before the Archbishop, that it might be recommended for use in churches, but the timidity of
the time prevented this from being carried into effect.

A deep student of church history, his letters show him trying every practical question by the
tests of ancient authority as well as instructive piety, and, on these principles, already
deploring the undue elevation of the pulpit and debasement of the Altar to which exclusive
preference of preaching had led.  Missions had, since the days of Carey's first opening of
the subject become so predominant a thought with the Nonconformist bodies, and were often conducted
so irregularly, that there was certain dread and distrust of them among the sober-minded and
orthodox; but Heber was one of the first English churchmen who perceived that to enlarge her
borders and strengthen her stakes was the bounden duty of the living Church.  He was a fervent
admirer of Henry Martyn, whose biography was published soon after the news of his death reached
England, and his feeling found vent in that hymn so familiar to us all--"From Greenland's icy
mountains."

He was meantime rising in influence and station,--Canon of St. Asaph, Preacher at Lincoln's
Inn, Select Preacher before the University.  He was beloved by all ranks: by the poor for his
boundless charity and sympathy; and by his equals, not only for these qualities, but for his
sunny temper, bright wit, and playfulness, which showed in his conversation, his letters, and
in many a droll, elegant, and scholarly jeu d'esprit, thrown off by a mind that could do nothing
without gracefulness.  All this prosperity was alloyed only by such domestic sorrow as might
be fitly termed gentle chastening.  The death of his next brother, Thomas, who had acted as
his curate, was a severe loss to him; and in the desire to make every affliction a stepping-stone
in Christian progress, he began, from that date, a custom of composing a short collect-like
prayer, veiled in Latin, on every marked occurrence in his life.  The next occasion was, after
several years of marriage, the birth of a little daughter, whom (in his own words) "he had
the pleasure of seeing and caressing for six months," ere she faded away, and died just before
the Christmas of 1817.  He never could speak of her without tears, and (his wife tells us)
ever after added to his private prayers a petition to be worthy to rejoin his "sinless child."
His grief and his faith further found voice in the hymn, each verse of which begins with "Thou
art gone to the grave, but we will not deplore thee," and which finishes--

   "Thou art gone to the grave, but we will not deplore thee,
      Whose God was thy ransom, thy Guardian and Guide.
   He gave thee, He took thee, and He will restore thee,
      And death has no sting, for the Saviour has died."

Such had been the training of Reginald Heber, through the pleasant paths of successful scholarship
and literature, and of well-beneficed country pastorship; a life perilous to spirituality and
earnestness, but which he kept full of the salt of piety, charity and unwearied activity as
parish priest, and as one of the voices of the Church.  Such had been his life up to 1822,
when, on the tidings of the death of Dr. Middleton, Bishop of Calcutta, his friend Charles
Williams Wynn, President of the Board of Commissioners for the affairs of India, offered him
the appointment.

To a man of his present position, talents, and prospects at home, the preferment was not advantageous:
the income, with the heavy attendant expenses, would very little increase his means; the promotion
threw him out of the chances of the like at home; and the labour and toil of the half-constituted
and enormous diocese, the needful struggles with English irreligion and native heathenism,
and the perils of climate, offered a trying exchange for all that had made life delightful
at Hodnet Rectory. A second little daughter too, whom he could not of course look to educating
in India, rendered the decision more trying.  But in his own peculiarly calm and simple way,
he wrote: "I really should not think myself justified in declining a situation of so great
usefulness, and for which, without vanity, I think myself not ill adapted, either from a love
for the society and friendship of England, or from a hope, which may never be realized, of
being some time or other in a situation of more importance at home."  At first, however, the
fear for the child's health induced him to decline, but only if anyone else equally suitable
could be found; and finally he accepted it, with apparent coolness, veiling the deep spirit
of zeal and enthusiasm that glowed within.  It was not the ardent vehemence that enables some
to follow their inward call, overcoming all obstacles, but it was calm obedience to a call
from without.  "After all," he wrote, "I hope I am not enthusiastic in thinking that a clergyman
is, like a soldier or a sailor, bound to go on any service, however remote or undesirable,
where the course of his duty leads him, and my destiny (though there are some circumstances
attending it which make my heart ache) has many, very many, advantages in an extended sphere
of professional activity, in the indulgence of literary curiosity, and, what to me has many
charms, the opportunity of seeing nature in some of its wildest and most majestic features."

In the spring of 1823, he took leave of Hodnet, amid the tears of his parishioners; and on
the 18th of May preached his last sermon in Lincoln's Inn chapel, on the Atonement.  On coming
out, one of the most leading men among the Wesleyan Methodists could only express his feelings
by exclaiming, "Thank God for that man!  Thank God for that man!"

It is striking to find him in the full pressure of business, while preparing in London for
his consecration and his voyage, making time for a letter to one of the Hodnet farmers, to
warn him against habits of drunkenness, hoping that it would dwell with him "as a voice from
the dead."  On the 1st of June, 1823, Reginald Heber was consecrated at Lambeth, and on the
10th sailed for India!  He made several sketches along the southern coast, under one of which
he wrote:--

   "And we must have danger, and fever, and pain,
   Ere we look on the white rocks of Albion again."

A few days later, when passing the western coast of France on a Sunday, the sound of the bells
suggested the following meditative verses:--

   "Bounding along the obedient surges,
      Cheerly on her onward way,
   Her course the gallant vessel urges
      Across thy stormy gulf, Biscay.
   In the sun the bright waves glisten;
      Rising slow with solemn swell,
   Hark, hark, what sound unwonted?  Listen--
      Listen--'tis the Sabbath bell.

   It tells of ties which duties sever,
      Of hearts so fondly knit to thee,
   Kind hands, kind looks, which, wanderer, never
      Thy hand shall grasp, thine eye shall see.
   It tells of home and all its pleasures,
      Of scenes where memory loves to dwell,
   And bids thee count thy heart's best treasures
      Far, far away, that Sabbath bell.

   Listen again!  Thy wounded spirit
      Shall soar from earth and seek above
   That kingdom which the blest inherit,
      The mansions of eternal love.
   Earth and her lowly cares forsaking,
      Bemoaned too keenly, loved too well,
   To faith and hope thy soul awaking,
      Thou hear'st with joy that Sabbath bell."

By the 28th of September, the vessel was in sight of the Temple of Jaghernauth, and on the
3rd of October was anchored close to the island of Saugor.

All through his voyage and residence in India, the Bishop kept a journal of the doings and
scenes of each day, full of interesting sketches, both in pen and pencil.  The beauty of the
villages on the Hooghly, "the greenhouse-like smell and temperature of the atmosphere," and
the gentle countenances and manners of the natives, struck him greatly, as he says, "with a
very solemn and earnest wish that I might in some degree, however small, be enabled to conduce
to the spiritual advantage of creatures so goodly, so gentle, and now so misled and blinded.
'Angili forent si essent Christiani.'"

On the 10th of October the Heber family entered their temporary abode in the Fort at Calcutta,
and were received by two Sepoy sentries and a long train of servants in cotton dresses and
turbans, one of them with a long silver stick, another with a mace.  There, too, were assembled
the neighbouring clergy--alas! far too few--and the next day the Bishop was installed in his
cathedral.

Then began a life of very severe labour, for not only had the arrears of episcopal business
after the interregnum to be made up, but the deficiency of clergy rendered the Sunday duties
very heavy; and the Bishop took as full a share of them as any working parish priest; and even
though he authorized the Church Missionary Society's teachers to read prayers and to preach,
the lack of sufficient ministrations was great.  Bishop's College had, however, been completed,
and what Middleton had founded was opened by Heber, with the happiest effect, which has lasted
to the present time.

The difficulties as to the form of ordination of such as were not British subjects had also
been overcome, and Christian David was to be sent up from Ceylon in company with Mr. Armour,
who was to receive Priest's orders.  The latter excellent man died just before he was to set
off, and this delayed David until the next spring, when he came to Calcutta, was lodged in
Bishop's College, passed an excellent examination, and was ordained deacon on Holy Thursday,
1824, and priest on the ensuing Trinity Sunday.  He is memorable as the first man of the dark-skinned
races admitted by the Church of England to her ministry.  An excellent and well- expressed
letter from him, on the difficulties respecting the distinctions of caste, is given in Bishop
Heber's Life.  This, indeed, was one of the greatest troubles in dealing with converts.  The
Serampore missionaries had striven to destroy it, but Ziegenbalg, Schwartz, and their elder
companions, regarded it as a distinction of society--not religious--and, though discouraging
it, had not so opposed it as to insist on high and low castes mingling indiscriminately in
church or at meals.  The younger men who had since come out had been scandalized, and tried
to make a change, which had led to much heartburning.

Next to his hymns, Bishop Heber is best known by the journal he kept of his visitation tour,
not intended for publication but containing so much of vivid description of scenery and manners,
that it forms a valuable picture of the condition of Hindostan as it then was.

His first stage, in barges along the Ganges, brought him to Dacca, where he was delayed by
the illness and death of his much esteemed and beloved chaplain.  He then went on to Bhaugulpore,
where he was much interested in a wild tribe called the Puharries, who inhabit the Rajmahal
hills, remnants of the aborigines of India.  They carried bows and arrows, lived by the chase,
and were viewed as great marauders; but they had a primitive faith, free from idolatry, hated
falsehood, and, having no observance of caste and a great respect for Europeans, seemed promising
objects for a mission; but unfortunately the climate of their mountains was so injurious to
European life, that the clergyman, Mr. Thomas Christian, a scholar of Bishop's College, whom
the Bishop appointed to this mission, was only able to spend three months in the hills in the
course of the year, while for the other nine he took the children under his instruction back
with him to Bhaugulpore.

At Bankipore, the Bishop met Padre Giulio Cesare, still a remarkably handsome and intelligent-looking
little man, and speaking warmly of Henry Martyn.  Dinapore, that first station of Martyn's,
had since his time fallen into a very unsatisfactory state, owing to the carelessness of his
successor, though it was newly come into better hands.

On the contrary, at Buxar, the Fort-adjutant, Captain Field, had so influenced all around,
though without a chaplain, that, though the Bishop could not give the place a Sunday, his Saturday
evening service in the verandah was thronged, the English soldiers coming with Prayer-books
and making the responses, besides numerous Hindoos, many of them the Christian wives and children
of the soldiers.  There was a boys' school kept by a converted Mahometan, and one for girls
by "Mrs. Simpson," a native of Agra, converted by Mr. Corrie, and the widow of a sergeant.
She, however, got no scholars but the half-caste daughters of the soldiers.  A little boy of
four years old, son to an English sergeant with a native wife, was baptized, and the Bishop
was delighted with the reverent devotion of the spectators.  Cureem Musseh, once a Sepoy havildar,
had his sword and sash hung over the desk, where, in a clean white cotton dress and turban,
he presided over his scholars, whom he had taught to read Hindostanee, and to say the Creed,
Lord's Prayer, and Commandments, with a short exposition of each.  The school served them likewise
to hold prayer-meetings in, and, on rare occasions, a clergyman visited them.

The Bishop's entrance into the sacred city of Benares he describes to his wife thus: "I will
endeavour to give you an account of the concert, vocal and instrumental, which saluted us as
we entered the town:--

"First beggar.--Agha Sahib!  Judge Sahib, Burra Sahib, give me some pice; I am a fakir; I am
a priest; I am dying of hunger!

"Bearers trotting under the tonjon.--Ugh! ugh!--Ugh! ugh!

"Musicians.--Tingle, tangle; tingle, tangle; bray, bray, bray.

"Chuprassee, clearing the way with his sheathed sabre.--Silence!  Room for the Lord Judge,
the Lord Priest.  Get out of the way!  Quick!  (Then gently patting and stroking the broad
back of a Brahmin bull.)  Oh, good man, move.

"Bull, scarcely moving.--Bu-u-uh.

"Second beggar, counting his beads, rolling his eyes, and moving his body backwards and forwards.--Ram,
ram; ram, ram!"

Benares, said to be founded on the point of Siva's trident, as the most sacred city of all
Hindostan, swarmed with beggars, fakirs, sacred animals, and idols of every description; but
close beside it was a church for consecration and thirty candidates for confirmation, of whom
fourteen were natives.  The next day the Bishop was taken to see a school founded by a rich
Bengalee baboo, whom Mr. Corrie had almost persuaded to be a Christian, but who had settled
down into a sort of general admiration for the beauty of the Gospel, and a wish to improve
his countrymen.  He had made over the house where the school was kept to the Church Missionary
Society, and the staff consisted of an English schoolmaster, a Persian moonshee, and two Hindostanee
writing masters, the whole presided over by an English catechist, a candidate for Holy Orders.
There were several class rooms, and a large, lofty hall, supported by pillars, where the Bishop
examined the 140, who read Persian and English, answered questions in Hindostanee and English,
and showed great proficiency in writing, arithmetic, and geography.  No objection was made
to their reading the New Testament.

Afterwards, when the Bishop looked into a little pagoda, richly carved, and containing an image
of Siva, crowned with scarlet flowers, with lamps burning before him, and a painted bull in
front, a little boy, one of the brightest scholars in the school, came forward, and showing
his Brahminical string, told, in tolerable English, the histories of the deities with which
the walls were painted.  "This," says the Bishop, "opened my eyes more fully to a danger which
had before struck me as possible, that some of the boys brought up in our schools might grow
up accomplished hypocrites, playing the part of Christian with us, and with their own people
of zealous followers of Brahma, or else that they would settle down in a sort of compromise
between the two creeds, allowing that Christianity was the best for us, but that idolatry was
necessary and commendable in persons of their own nation."  This in fact seems to have been
ever since the state of a large proportion of the educated Hindoos. May it be only a transition
state!

The street preaching employed by the Serampore community had not been resorted to by the Church
Missionary Society, and Bishop Heber decided that in the fanatic population, amid the crowds
of bulls, beggars, and sacred apes, it was far wiser not to attempt it; but the missionaries
were often sent for to private houses to converse with natives of rank, on their doctrine.
One notable Hindoo, Amrut Row, who had at one time been Peishwa of the Mahrattas, who had retired
to Benares, used on the feast of his patron god to give a portion of rice and a rupee to every
Brahmin and blind or lame person who applied between sunrise and sunset. He had a large garden
with four gates, three of which were set open for the three classes of applicants; the fourth
served himself and his servants.  As each person received his dole, he was shown into the garden,
and detained there to prevent his applying twice, but there he enjoyed plenty of shade, water,
company, and idols!  This day's distribution often amounted to above 50,000 rupees, and his
charities altogether were three times as great in the course of every year.  He was a good
kind man, religious to the best of his knowledge; and just before the Bishop's visit, he had
sent a message to Mr. Morris, the clergyman at Sealcote, to call on him in the middle of the
next week as he wished to inquire further into Christianity.  Alas! before the appointed day
Amrut Row was dead, and his ashes were still smoking when the Bishop quitted Benares.

What had become of Henry Martyn's church does not appear, for at Cawnpore he found none, but
service was alternately performed in a bungalow and in the riding-school.  He went as far north
as Oude, and found at Chinear a much larger native congregation than he expected, though the
women still retained so much of Eastern customs that they would not even raise their veils
when receiving the Holy Communion.  Almost all were the converts of the excellent Mr. Corrie,
Henry Martyn's friend.

Arriving at Surat, after a journey of ten months, he there embarked for Bombay, where his wife
and eldest child came from Calcutta, by sea, to meet him, and thence, after a stay in Ceylon
for some weeks, returned to Calcutta, where, in December, he ordained Abdul Messeh, the man
who had been won by Henry Martyn's garden preachings.  It was a very remarkable ordination,
for Father Abraham, the Armenian Suffragan from the Patriarch of Jerusalem, was present, in
the black robes of his convent, and laid his hand on the heads of the candidates, and the service
was in Hindostanee, whenever Abdul Messeh was individually concerned.  Abdul Messeh was a most
valuable worker among his countrymen, but he only survived about eighteen months.

In his last letter to the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel, the Bishop records the
reception into Bishop's College of Mesrop David, the kinsman of the Armenian Bishop and already
a deacon; also of two native youths from Ceylon, one Tamul and one Cingalese.  This college,
though a work which had none of the romance of adventure about it, afforded the surest and
most important means of thoroughly implanting the Gospel, and forming a native priesthood fit
for the varying needs of the various people.  Nor could such a task be committed to any but
superior men.  Only such as have abilities that would win them distinction in England, are
fit to cope with the difficulties of dealing with intellects quite as argumentative as, and
even more subtle than, those of the ordinary level of Englishmen.

Soon after writing this letter, Bishop Heber set forth on what was to prove his last visitation.
On the voyage to Madras, he spent much time upon some invalid soldiers who were being sent
home, and confirmed one of them on board.  Also he devoted himself to comforting a poor lady
whose baby died on the voyage, not only when with her in her cabin, but Archdeacon Robinson,
his chaplain, could hear him weeping and praying for her when alone in his own.

At Madras, he was lodged in the house of Sir Thomas Munro, the governor, who had done much
by the help of his excellent wife to promote all that was good.  At Vepery, close at hand,
the Bishop found, nearly finished, the first church built in the Gothic style in India.  He
was greatly delighted with it, and especially that the desk and pulpit had not been allowed
to obstruct the view of the altar, which had more dignity than was usual in the churches of
1826.  A monstrous pulpit in another little church at Poonamalee, a depot for recruits, and
an asylum for pensioners and soldiers' children, he caused to be removed.  He had a confirmation
at this place, or rather two, for some unexpected candidates presented themselves, and he desired
Archdeacon Robinson to examine them, so that they might be confirmed later in the day.  Among
them was an old pensioner, and a sickly-looking young woman with a little boy, whom the Archdeacon
thought too young, and recommended her to keep back for another opportunity.  She wept much,
and the Bishop said, "Bring them both to me; who knows whether they may live to wish for it
again?"  The native Christians, poor people employed on the beach, remnants of the old Portuguese
Missions, had built a church at their own expense, and, being unable to obtain regular ministrations
from their own clergy, begged the Bishop to consecrate their building, and give them a clergyman,
and this he hoped to do on his return.

Meantime, he went in his robes to present Lady Munro with a vote of thanks from the Society
for Promoting Christian Knowledge, for the good works in the schools of her husband's government.
"I have seldom witnessed a more interesting or affecting picture," writes Archdeacon Robinson:
"the beauty and gracefulness of Lady Munro, the grave and commanding figure of the Governor,
the youthful appearance and simple dignity of the dear Bishop, the beloved of all beholders,
presented a scene such as few can ever hope to witness."  "My lord," said Sir Thomas, with
the tears rolling down his cheeks, "it will be vain for me after this to preach humility to
Lady Munro; she will be proud of this day to the latest hour she lives."

"God bless you, Sir Thomas!" was all the Bishop could utter.

"And God bless you, my lord!" was the fervent answer.

Before eighteen months had passed the two good men who exchanged this blessing, had met in
Paradise!

The Bishop went on from Madras, travelling by dak, and encamping during the heat of the day.
He soon came into the field of labour of the Danish Missions, and was disappointed to find
how poor and forlorn the Christian converts about Cuddalore were, and the great want of employment
for them. Things were better in the Tanjore territory, where the Bishop was much interested
by a visit from the native pastor of one of the villages, a fine, venerable old man.  When
about to take leave, he lingered, and the Bishop was told that the Tamul Christians never quitted
a minister without receiving his blessing.  He was greatly touched.  "I will bless them all,
the good people," he said, after blessing the pastor.

Arriving at Tanjore, the Bishop thus describes Serfojee:--"I have been passing the last four
days in the society of a Hindoo Prince, the Rajah of Tanjore, who quotes Fourcroy, Lavoilier,
Linnaeus, and Buffon fluently; has formed a more accurate judgment of the poetical merits of
Shakespeare than that so felicitously expressed by Lord Byron; and has actually emitted English
poetry, very superior indeed to Rousseau's epitaph on Shenstone; at the same time that he is
much respected by the English officers in his neighbourhood, as a real good judge of a horse,
and a cool, bold, and deadly shot at a tiger.  The truth is, that he is an extraordinary man,
who, having in early youth received such an education as old Schwartz, the celebrated missionary,
could give him, has ever since continued, in the midst of many disadvantages, to preserve his
taste for, and extend his knowledge of, European literature: while he has never neglected the
active exercises and frank, soldierly bearing which become the descendant of the old Mahratta
conquerors; and by which only, in the present state of things, he has it in his power to gratify
the prejudices of his people, and prolong his popularity among them.  Had he lived in the days
of Hyder, he would have been a formidable ally or enemy; for he is, by the testimony of all
in his neighbourhood, frugal, bold, popular, and insinuating.  At present, with less power
than an English nobleman, he holds his head high, and appears contented; and the print of Buonaparte,
which hangs in his library, is so neutralized by that of Lord Hastings in full costume, that
it can do no harm to anybody. . . . To finish the portrait of Maha Raja Sarbojee, I should
tell you that he is a strong-built and very handsome middle-aged man, with eyes and nose like
a fine hawk, and very bushy grey mustachios, generally splendidly dressed, but with no effeminacy
of ornament, and looking and talking more like a favourable specimen of a French general officer
than any other object of comparison which occurs to me.  His son, Raja Seroojee (so named after
their great ancestor), is a pale, sickly-looking lad of seventeen, who also speaks English,
but imperfectly, and on whose account his father lamented, with much apparent concern, the
impossibility which he found of obtaining any tolerable instruction in Tanjore.  I was moved
at this, and offered to take him on my tour, and afterwards to Calcutta, where he might have
apartments in my house, and be introduced into good English society; at the same time that
I would superintend his studies, and procure for him the best masters which India affords.
The father and son, in different ways,--the one catching at the idea with great eagerness,
the other as if he were afraid to say all he wished,--seemed both well pleased with the proposal.
Both, however, on consulting together, expressed a doubt of the mother's concurrence; and,
accordingly, next day I had a very civil message, through the Resident, that the Rannee had
already lost two sons; that this survivor was a sickly boy; that she was sure he would not
come back alive, and it would kill her to part with him; but that all the family joined in
gratitude, &c.  So poor Seroojee must chew betel and sit in the zenana, and pursue the other
amusements of the common race of Hindoo princes, till he is gathered to those heroic forms
who, girded with long swords with hawks on their wrists, and garments like those of the king
of spades (whose portrait-painter, as I guess, has been retained by this family), adorn the
principal room in the palace."

To the Bishop's great indignation, he found that whereas while the Rajah had retained his dominions,
Christians had been eligible to all the different offices of State, there was now an order
from the Company's Government against their admission to any employment.  "Surely," he says,
"we are, in matters of religion, the most lukewarm and cowardly people on the face of the earth.
I mean to make this and some other things I have seen a matter of formal representation to
all the three Governments of India, and to the Board of Control."

It is highly probable that this systematic dread of encouraging God's service on the part of
the Company assisted in keeping Serfojee a heathen, in spite of the many prayers offered up
for him.  Almost the last in Heber's book of private devotions was for the Rajah; and he drew
up one, to be translated into Tamul, for use in all the churches in his territory; this last
not directly for his conversion, but for his temporal and spiritual welfare.

It is pleasant to know that the last Easter of Heber's life was made joyful by ministering
to Schwartz's spiritual children.  He preached in that church which Schwartz had raised, and
where his monument stood.  His text was, "I am He that liveth and was dead, and behold I am
alive for evermore."  Many English-speaking natives went there, and others besides; and at
the Holy Eucharist that followed there were thirty English and fifty-seven native communicants.
The delight and admiration of the Bishop were speedily apparent.  In the evening he attended
a Tamul service, where the prayers were said by a Hindoo, the sermon preached by a Dane, and
the blessing delivered by the Bishop in Tamul, to the surprise and pleasure of the congregation,
which numbered no less than 1,300, all reverent, all making the responses, joining in the Easter
hymn, and in the 100th Psalm.  Never had the Bishop been happier!  As he was taking off his
robes, he exclaimed, "Gladly would I exchange years of common life for one such day as this!"
Even at night he could not help coming back to Archdeacon Robinson's room to rejoice, discuss,
and finally pray over this blessed fruit of the toils of a holy man, who had been at rest thirty-eight
years, yet whose work still increased.  The next day he confirmed a large number; and Kohloff,
a contemporary missionary of Schwartz, preached in Tamul.

After this happy Easter, the Bishop continued his route to Trichinopoly, where he preached
and confirmed on the Sunday, but complained of a slight headache, and allowed himself to be
persuaded not to go to the native service in the evening, though he spent a good deal of time
conversing with Mr. Robinson, who was unwell enough to be lying in bed.

On Monday, the 3rd of April, he went at daybreak to hold a Tamul confirmation at the poor little
neglected native church; then looked at the schools, but found that the want of ventilation
rendered them too oppressive for him to remain; and afterwards received and graciously answered
an address from the poor Christians, praying him to send them a pastor, for they had been without
one for two years.  He came back, still in his robes, to Mr. Robinson's bedroom, and, with
great eagerness, talked over what he had seen and heard; speaking of the destitution of this
poor church, and of the needfulness that a Bishop should receive regular reports of every station;
also mentioning a Danish missionary whom he intended to appoint.  He then went to his own room,
and, according to Indian habit after exertion, went out in order to bathe.  The bath was in
a separate building.  It was fifteen feet long, eight broad, and with stone steps descending
into it to a depth of seven feet, and it was perfectly full of water.  The servant sitting
outside wondered at the length of time and unbroken silence, and at last looked in; but Reginald
Heber had, by that time, long been lifeless in the cold bath!

He was only in his forty-fourth year; but medical opinion declared that there had been, unsuspected,
the seeds of fatal disease, accelerated by climate, exertion, and excitement, and such as would
probably have caused long helplessness and inaction, unless thus suddenly developed.

He was buried the next day at Trichinopoly church, where the mural tablet, with most touching
and appropriate simplicity, bears no inscription in laudation, but merely the holy words, "Be
ye also ready."

Thus ended a life of inward and outward brightness, which comes like a stream of sunshine among
the shadows through which most of the labourers had to struggle, either for want of means of
education, or from poverty or melancholy, and yet as true and as exhilarating a course as was
ever one of theirs.  May we not read his description in the verse:--

   "And there are souls that seem to dwell
   Above this earth--so rich a spell
   Floats round their steps where'er they move,
   Of hopes fulfilled, and mutual love:
   Such, if on high their hopes are set,
   Nor in the stream the source forget;
   If, prompt to quit the bliss they know,
   Following the Lamb where'er He go,
   By purest pleasures unbeguiled
   To idolize or wife or child,
   Such wedded souls our God shall own
   For faultless virgins round His throne."

Mrs. Heber published soon after her return her husband's journals, and these, bearing the impress
of his graceful, scholarly hand, attracted many readers who care merely for information and
amusement; and thus, by their mere mundane qualities, his writings did much to spread knowledge
of, and therefore interest in, the field of labour in which he died. Large subscriptions came
into the societies, and in a few years a church and three schools for the natives, with the
pastor he had indicated, served as the best monument of that Low Sunday at Trichinopoly.

His successor was John Thomas James: the most memorable event in whose life was a halt at the
Cape of Good Hope.  This was the first time that colony had ever been visited by a Bishop,
and there was no church, though a piece of land had been newly granted for one, which he consecrated
before proceeding on his voyage.  He arrived in 1828, but the climate of Calcutta struck him
for death almost immediately.  He was only able to perform one ordination, one confirmation,
and one charge to the Calcutta clergy, then was forced to embark, and died at sea within a
few months of his arrival.

During this time Daniel Wilson had been working under Mr. Cecil at Chobham, where he remained
for three years, when a tutorship at St. Edmund's Hall was offered to him, which enabled him
to marry his cousin Ann, combining the small living of Warton with his tutorship.  On the death
of the Rev. Richard Cecil he took, by his especial wish, his proprietary chapel in Bloomsbury,
and there continued till 1824 as one of the most marked London clergy, keeping up the earnestness
that Newton and Cecil had been noted for, with quite as much energy; and though without the
same originality, there was a telling force about his sermons which made a young man exclaim
the first time he heard him, "I will never hear Daniel Wilson again," but something led him
happily to infringe the resolution, and then it became, "I will always, if possible, hear Daniel
Wilson."  Sentences of his were very memorable; for instance, "Nineteen- twentieths of sanctification
consist in holy tempers," and, besides exhibiting a pithy force of language, his sermons were
prepared with infinite care and labour.  When at St. John's, where he had no parochial charge,
he selected his text on Monday and carried it about with him, so to speak, all the week, chewing
the cud of it as it were, looking it up in every authority, ancient or modern, within his reach,
and conversing on the subject with any one whom he thought likely to give him a hint. The sermons
were written in a large legible shorthand, only on one side of the paper, and on the opposite
page were copied out extracts of translations from illustrative authors, often as many as eight
to a single sermon, so that he had in fact a huge secretion of stores, which he could adapt
according to the needs of his congregation, and he made notes of what he found fall flat and
incomprehensible, or what he felt was stirring the souls of his audience; and this time was
most profitably spent, not only for his immediate congregation, but in laying up a provision
for the busier days of after-life, when the same amount of study was out of his power.  And
the benefit of such painstaking may be estimated by the words of a gentleman when introduced
to a relative of his in after-years, "I am only one of very many who do not know and never
spoke to Mr. Wilson, but to whom he has been a father in CHRIST.  He never will know, and he
never ought to know, the good that he has been the means of doing, for no man could bear it."

Proprietary chapels have now nearly become extinct.  They were an effect of the neglect of
the heathenish eighteenth century, and one of the means of providing church room by private
speculation; and thus they almost necessarily were liable to the abuses of popularity-hunting
and of lack of care for individuals, especially the poor: but a man in thorough earnestness
is sure to draw good even out of a defective system; and Daniel Wilson, sitting in his study
which was connected with the chapel, became the counsellor of hundreds who sought spiritual
advice and assistance, chiefly of the upper and well-to-do classes, but he took care to avoid
wasting time over these conferences, and when it came to mere talk would put people's hats
and umbrellas into their hands.  There were also large Sunday-schools connected with his chapel,
and taught by the members of his congregation, and these led to the first organization of a
district visitors' society, one of the earliest attempts of the slowly reviving English Church
to show her laity how to minister to the poor under pastoral direction.

His father-in-law, Mr. William Wilson, had purchased the advowson of the living of Islington,
and, when it became vacant in 1824, presented it to him, when he carried thither all his vigour
and thoroughness.  Church building was his first necessity, and he absolutely prevailed on
his parish to rate themselves for the purpose, so that three churches were begun almost at
once, and by the time his Life was written in 1860 the great suburb had multiplied its single
church in thirty-six years into fifteen.  At Islington the chief sorrows of his life befel
him.  He had had six children, of whom one died an infant and two more in early childhood.
The second son, John, after a boyhood of great promise, fell into temptation at the University
and led a wild and degrading course; ending by his retirement to the Continent, where he died
in 1833, after a very painful illness, in which he had evinced great agony of mind, which softened
at length into repentance and hope.  The eldest son, Daniel, who attended him on his death-bed,
had taken holy orders and succeeded to his father's former living of Warton; and one daughter,
Eliza, born in 1814, survived to cheer his home when his wife, after some years of invalidism,
died in 1827.  Zealous, resolute, and hardworking, he never allowed sorrow to interfere with
his work, and was soon in the midst of his confirmation classes, and of a scheme for educating
young tradespeople on a more thorough and religious system.

In the meantime he had always loved and urged the missionary cause, and had consulted with
Bishop Turner before he went out.  When the news of his decease was received (the fourth Bishop
to die at his post within nine years), the appointment began to be looked on as a sentence
of death, and it was declined in succession by several eminent clergymen. Daniel Wilson had
anxiously watched for the answer in each case, and was suggesting several persons to Mr. Charles
Grant, when the thought struck him, "Here I am, send me."  A widower of fifty-four years old,
of much strength, and with no young children, seemed to him the fit person to volunteer to
fill the breach; and he wrote stating, that if no one else could be found for the post, he
was willing to offer himself.  The appointment was accordingly given to him, after an interval
of nine months since the see had become vacant, and an infinity of toil and arrangements crowded
on him.  Islington was resigned to his son Daniel, and he was consecrated by Archbishop Howley
on the 29th of April, 1832, "the day of my espousals to CHRIST my Saviour," as he wrote in
his journal; and on the ensuing 18th of June he sailed with his daughter for Calcutta.  The
ship touched at the Cape, which under the government of Sir Lowry Cole was by no means in the
same hopeless state of neglect as when Martyn had visited it.  Bishop Wilson there held an
ordination and a confirmation, the first for himself as well as for South Africa, whose Episcopate
was not founded till twenty-three years later.

He landed at Calcutta on the 5th of November, 1832, and took possession of the large unfurnished
house that had at last been wrung out of Government.  He found only just enough chairs and
tables, placed there by the Archdeacon, to suffice for immediate use; and was answered, when
he asked why his orders that the place should be completely fitted up had not been attended
to, "I thought this would be enough to last for six months,"--this being the term for which
a Bishop of Calcutta was thought likely to need earthly furniture.  But Bishop Wilson was resolved
to take reasonable precaution, and not to be daunted, or to act as if he were afraid.  He furnished
the place, and rented a pleasant country-house, called the Hive, at Tittaghur, where he spent
a few days of every week; and, having been told that much danger was incurred by the exertion
of visitation tours before the constitution had become accustomed to the climate, he resolved
to wait for two years before making any long journey; and, in the meantime, he was able to
collect a great amount of information, as well as attending to the regulation of matters at
head- quarters.  He kept up more formality and state than Bishop Heber had done; and, of course,
as the one had been censured for his simplicity, so the other was found fault with for pomp
and stiffness.  But these were minor points, chiefly belonging to the character of the two
men, whose whole natures were in curious accordance with their prize performances at Oxford,--the
one with all the warmth, fire, and animation of the poet of Palestine, sensitive to every impression,
and making all serve to light his altar-flame; the other all common-sense, sincere, deep, and
laborious, but with a narrower range of sympathies, and afraid of all that might distract attention
from the one great subject.  General literature had no charms for Wilson.  He is believed never
to have read one of Scott's poems or novels; and the playful mirth that enlivened all Heber's
paths was not with him, though he had the equable cheerfulness of a faithful servant doing
his Lord's work.  His daughter, soon after his arrival, married her cousin, Josiah Bateman,
his chaplain (and biographer), and thus continued to be the mistress of her father's house.

On the Whitsunday of 1833 the Bishop baptized one of those Hindoo gentlemen who are among the
most satisfactory of Christian converts; they are free from the suspicion of interested motives
which has always attached to the pariahs and low-caste people who hung about Serampore and
its dependent stations, and, justly or unjustly, were accused of turning Christians when they
had exhausted other resources of idleness and knavery.  A curious instance of a thorough conversion
happened the same year.  A lad, educated like most other well-to-do Hindoos in the schools
of the Church Missionary at Mirzampore, when about fifteen, became persuaded of the saving
grace of Christianity, and determined to be baptized and openly forsake his idols.  His parents
persecuted him, and he fled to a friend, a Hindoo convert; but he was seized by his relations,
and the case was referred to the Supreme Court, who decided that the father's power over the
son must not be interfered with; and the poor boy was dragged away, clinging to the barrister's
table, amid the shouts of the heathen and the tears of the Christians.  The boy remained staunch,
and three years later came again and received baptism; but his sufferings had injured his health,
both of mind and body, and his promise of superior intelligence was blighted.

In 1834, the Bishop set off on his first long journey, which included Penang and Moulmein,
where the Judsons had taken refuge after the Burmese war, and where he found, in the midst
of half-cleared jungle and Buddhist temples full of enormous idols, a school kept by an American
master, so full of notions of equality, that, at the examination, he expected the Bishop to
go to each class, not the class to the Bishop.

The Commissioner had built a church, the walls of teak slabs, and the pillars each a single
teak-tree, and it was ready for consecration.  After this and a confirmation, the Bishop went
on his way to Ceylon, and then to the Madras Presidency, where he had already had a long correspondence
with the pastors of the Christian congregations on the question of caste. Things had not prospered
of late; and, to the dismay of the Bishop, he found that, in the course of the last year, 168
Christians had fallen back to heathenism, where, not having broken their caste, they could
still be received and find a place.  The truth was that, though caste might appear only a distinction
of mere social rank, it was derived from a pagan superstition, and was a stronghold of heathenism.
Schwartz was all his life trying to make it wear and die out, lest the violent renunciation
should be too much for his converts' faith.  But his successors had allowed the feeling to
retrograde; and Bishop Wilson found separate services, sides of the church allotted to the
high and low castes, and the most unchristian distinctions made between them.  He decided that
toleration of the prejudice was only doing harm, and issued orders that henceforth catechumens
preparing for baptism, confirmation, or communion, should be called on to renounce caste as
a condition of admittance; and that, though the adult communicants should be gently dealt with,
there should be no recognition of the distinction in the places in church, in the order of
administering the Holy Communion, in marriages or processions, and that differences of food
or dress, or marks on the forehead, should be discontinued.  The clergy were in consternation,
and made an appeal before they published the Bishop's letter to their flocks; but they found
his mind made up, and yielded.  The lesser stations complied without much difficulty; but at
Trichinopoly, Vepery, and Tanjore, there were many Soodras, the soldier-caste, professing to
have come from Brahma's shoulders, and second only to the Brahmins.  They were desperately
offended.  At Trichinopoly, only seven Soodra families continued to attend the services, although
the seceders behaved quietly, and offered no insults either to the clergy or the pariahs. 
At Vepery, on the reading of the Bishop's letter, the whole Soodra population walked out en
masse, except one catechist, who joined them afterwards.  They then drew up a paper, declaring
that they would not yield, and would neither come to church nor send their children to school,
unless they continued to be distinguished; and they set up a service of their own in a chapel
lent them by a missionary belonging to the London Society.  He was, however, reprimanded for
this by the committee which employed him at Madras, and the chapel was withdrawn; upon which
the Soodras remained without any public worship whatever for five months, when the catechists
and schoolmasters came forward and acknowledged their pride and contumacy, the children dropped
into the schools, and the grown-up people, one by one, returned to church, but in their own way.

At Tanjore, the contest was a much harder one.  Serfojee had died in 1834, and the son whom
Bishop Heber had vainly tried to obtain for education was one of the ordinary specimens of
indolent, useless rajahs, enjoying ease and display under British protection; but the Mission
had gone on thriving as to numbers, though scarcely as to earnestness or energy; and the Christians
numbered 7,000, with 107 catechists and four native clergy, under the management of Mr. Kohloff,
almost the last of Schwartz's fellow-workers.  The Bishop's letter was read aloud by him, after
the sermon, on the 10th of November, 1833.  There was an immediate clamour of all the Soodras,
who would not be hushed by being reminded that they were in church, and, while Mr. Kohloff
was being assisted from the pulpit, gathered round his wife and insulted her.

Letters passed between the Soodras and the missionaries.  There was no denial that the Bishop's
command was right in itself; but an immense variety of excuses were offered for not complying
with it, and only one of the four priests consented,--Nyanapracasem, an old man of eighty,
who may be remembered as one of Schwartz's earliest converts, and of the four priests ordained
by the Lutherans,--with three catechists, and ten of the general body; all the others remained
in a state of secession.  When the first death took place among them, Nyanapracasem, the one
conforming priest, was appointed to read the funeral service; but he fell sick, and the only
substitute available on the spot was a low-caste catechist, a very respectable man, but whom
the Soodras silenced with threats, employing one of their own people in his stead.  Next time,
they borrowed the Roman Catholic burial-ground, and services were carried on, on Sunday, by
one of the dissentient priests, but marriages were celebrated in the heathen fashion, and there
was evidently a strong disposition to form a schism, which the reckless, easy, self-willed
conduct of the Soodras showed would be Christianity only in name.  There had even been an appeal
to the Governor-General, and the Bishop felt the whole tone of Christianity in India to be
at stake.

It was in the height of this crisis that his journey to Madras was made in the track of Bishop
Heber.  Twice he preached at Vepery, and the Soodras attended; but he asked no questions, and
let them place themselves as they chose, and take precedence, intending to fight out the question
at Tanjore.

There, at seven o'clock in the morning of January 10, 1835, on the bank of the Cavery River,
he was received by all the faithful Christians and school-children, headed by Kohloff and Nyanapracasem,
These were the two remaining fellow-workers of Schwartz.  Kohloff, now becoming aged, had his
hair long and loose round his florid German face; he was still a true German, full of simple
kindness, and his English had a good deal of accent.  His Hindoo companion was a beautiful
old man, with long snowy hair flowing over his long white robes, who took the Bishop's hand
between both of his, and blessed God for his coming, hoping that as Elijah brought back the
stiff-necked Israelites, so the Bishop might turn the hearts of the Soodras.

Late that afternoon, a great party of these assembled to lay their complaints before the Bishop,
bringing their two dissentient priests.  One was of doubtful character, and was unnoticed;
but to the other, John Pillay, the Bishop addressed himself, telling him to assure the other
Christians that his heart was full of love, and that he would hear their grievances, and answer
them another time, when less weary with his journey.

Several spoke, and the Bishop listened to their individual cases.  They were anxious to come
and hear his sermon, but would only do so if allowed to sit apart; and to this, as one great
object was to obtain their attention, the Bishop consented, with a reservation that it was
only for that once.  The church was thronged, and after a Tamul service, the Bishop preached,
pausing after every sentence that a catechist might render his words into Tamul.  The text
was, "Walk in love, as Christ also loved us," and the latter part of his discourse was on the
lesson from the Good Samaritan, as to "who is my neighbour."  There was at the end a long pause
of breathless silence, and then he called on everyone present to offer up the following prayer:
"Lord, give me a broken heart to receive the love of Christ, and obey His commands."  The whole
congregation repeated the words aloud in Tamul, and then he gave the blessing and dismissed them.

After this there were a great number of private conferences.  People came and owned that they
had been very unhappy; religion had died in their hearts, and they had had no peace; but their
wives were the great objectors--they feared whether they should marry their daughters, &c.
&c. The two priests especially saw the badness of their standing-ground, but they should lose
respect, they said.  No Pariah seems to have been in holy orders, but if a Pariah catechist
visited a sick person, he was not allowed to come under the roof, and the patient was carried
out into the verandah.  And then came a rather stormy conference with about 150 Soodras, which
occupied two days, since every sentence had to pass through an interpreter.  The objections
were various, but as a body the resistance continued, and it was only individuals that came
over; some of these, however, did, and it was so clear from all that had passed that to permit
the distinctions was but a truckling to heathenism, that the Bishop was more than ever resolved
on firmness.  Two of the priests had conformed, and the Christianity of those who would not
do so was plainly not worth having.

There was some polite intercourse with Serfojee's son, whose taste was visible in the alteration
of a fine statue of his father by Flaxman, from which the white marble turban had been removed
to substitute a coloured one, with black feathers and tassels.  In him the family has become
extinct, since he only left a daughter, and the adoption of a son, after the old Hindoo fashion,
has not been permitted by Government.

Thence, Bishop Wilson proceeded towards Trichinopoly.  He encamped, by the way, at a place
called Muttooputty, a large station on the Coleroon river, where the way had been so prepared
for him that there was a grand throng of native Christians, untroubled about caste, and he
was obliged literally to lengthen the cords and strengthen the stakes of the large tent used
as a chapel.  It was one of the memorable days of joy that come now and then to support the
laborious spirit of the faithful servant. "One such day as we have just passed is worth years
of common service."

At Trichinopoly, with the deepest sense of reverence, he visited the scene of Heber's death,
ministered at the same altar, and preached from the same pulpit, after an interval of nine years.

Here, his mode of dealing with the caste-question was thus: When he came robed into the church,
he saw groups of natives standing about, instead of placing themselves like the others of the
congregation.  He went up to two, led them to seats, and his chaplain following, did the same;
the rest were seated in like manner without resistance.

When the Celebration took place, the Bishop had given directions as to the order of things.
First, a Soodra catechist communicated, then two Pariah catechists, then an English gentleman,
next a Pariah, then two Eurasians; and thus without distinction, 147 communicated.  The barrier
was broken down, and the nucleus of a church without caste was formed.

This presidency of Madras was immediately after formed into a separate see, and given to Daniel
Corrie, the friend of Martyn, while Dr. Thomas Carr became Bishop of Bombay.

On Wilson's return to Tanjore he found an increasing though still small number had conformed,
and before he left the place there were hopes of larger numbers.  On his way back to Calcutta,
he visited the horrible pagoda of Juggernaut (properly Jaghanatha, Lord of the World), which
was still the centre of worship and pilgrimage; and though the self-immolation of the pilgrims
beneath the car had been prohibited, yet the Company's Government still fancied themselves
justified in receiving a toll from the visitors to this shrine of cruelty and all uncleanness,
up to 1839, when the disgrace was done away by Lord Auckland.

In the year 1836 another journey was made, first to Bombay and then further into the interior,
to many places, never visited by a bishop before, and with no chaplain or anything to keep
up the sense of religion.  At Aurungabad, the utter ignorance of the English officers was appalling.
The old Colonel-commandant had not heard a sermon for twenty years, and thought every sentence
on the text, "Walk in love," was a personal attack on himself.  He refused to attend another
service, or to bid the Bishop farewell!  And when the Holy Communion was celebrated, nobody
knew what the offertory meant, and scarcely any one was prepared to respond.

Yet in contrast to these English, a small band of Hindoos, four men, six women, and five children,
presented themselves, asking permission to join in the service, and to have their children
baptized.  They had been once Roman Catholics, but an old Dutchwoman from Ceylon had taught
them most of what they knew; and they had a Hindostanee prayer-book, whence they held a service
every Sunday, but leaving out the Absolution and Benediction, which they rightly perceived
to be priestly functions.  Two of them were servants to an English officer, and they were all
nearly related.  They were perfectly respectable and trustworthy, and looked well dressed and
intelligent.  The Bishop tried to bring about an application from the Company to the Nizam,
to defray the expenses of an occasional visit from a chaplain to the Christian officers and
residents in his employ, but he was answered that "it would form a dangerous precedent."

The next step was into the Bengal presidency, always with the same kind of adventures; quaint
civilities of the presentation of flowery garlands bedecking the neck and arms, given by the
native princes, with a sprinkling of rose-water, and sometimes an anointing with oil; and then
an endeavour to stir into Christian life the neglected English military and civil officers
stationed in their dominions.

One of these, a gentleman of good birth and repute, actually went on smoking and gurgling his
hookah when the Bishop was beginning family prayers, apparently with no more perception that
it was anything that concerned him than if he had seen a Mahometan turning to Mecca, or a Parsee
saluting the rising sun.  Indeed many of these Company's servants had been sent out when fourteen
or fifteen years old; and, if in a remote station, had been left without anything external
whatever to remind them of Christianity.

This journey extended to the Himalayas, where the Bishop had four months' repose at Simlah,
then in its infancy as a resort for wearied East Indians; and on his descent from thence, his
first halting-place was Kurnaul, where he found the church in a state of efficiency, owing,
in great part, to an officer whose conversion to a religious life had been very remarkable.
Once, when in a large party, where gambling was going on to a reckless extent, he saw one of
the players take out a hideous little black figure, supposed to represent the devil, to which
he addressed himself with a mixture of entreaties and threats, involving such blasphemy that
this officer, utterly horrified, withdrew from the company, spent the night in tears and prayers,
and from that time became a religious man.  There was also an active chaplain, a large church,
and a bungalow, built by the soldiers of an English regiment, the centre part arranged for
service, and the surrounding verandah partitioned into little cells, where the soldiers could
retire for private prayer or reading.  It was called St. John's Chapel, and was in the hands
of the chaplain.  Here the Bishop remained for two Sundays, and ordained Anund Musseeh, who
had been fifteen years a Christian, and had been known to Bishop Heber.  The difficulty in
his case was the rule not to ordain a person who had a heathen family, since he had not been
able to convert his wife.  His excellence outweighed the objection, and he was the first Brahmin
who received holy orders from an English bishop; but in after- times the heathen influence
at home told upon him; and this failure perhaps rendered Bishop Daniel Wilson somewhat over-cautious
and backward in ordaining a native ministry.

The next stage was Delhi, where a very interesting interview awaited him. An officer of Anglo-Indian
birth, James Skinner by name, who had raised and commanded a capital body of light horse, had
twenty years before entered Delhi with a conquering army, and, gazing on the countless domes
and minarets, vowed that if ever he should be able, he would build an English church to raise
its cross among them.  He had persevered, though the cost far exceeded the estimate, and though
the failure of houses of business had greatly lessened his means; and now he came, a tall,
stout, dark man of fifty-six, in a uniform of blue, silver, and steel, a helmet on his head
and a red ribbon on his breast, to beg for consecration for his church.  His sons were Christians,
but his wife was a Mahometan, though, he said with tears, that "for thirty years a better wife
no man ever had."

The church was of Greek architecture, shaped as a Greek cross, with porticoes with flights
of steps at each extremity except the east, which formed the chancel, and at the intersection
was a dome and cupola.  It was paved with marble, and the whole effect was beautiful.  After
the consecration a confirmation followed, and the first to receive the apostolic rite were
the noble old Colonel himself and his three sons. Twenty years later this fine building was
filled with dying men, and shared in the horrors of the siege of Delhi; but it has now returned
to its rightful use, and as a church of martyrs.

Indeed, all the places that the Bishop visited in this excursion have since been associated
with the Mutiny.  Cawnpore was not much more satisfactory than when Heber had visited it; an
irreligious commandant and a dissipated regiment had done much harm; and an imprudent letter
of one of the chaplains had led to a quarrel, in which the clergyman unfortunately put himself
in the wrong.  Happily, a new commanding officer and better conducted regiment had replaced
the first, and the ill- feeling was so entirely removed that the Bishop wrote, "Never did I
enter a station with such despondency, nor leave one with so much joy."  And thus he prepared
Cawnpore for that which was in store for it!

His visit to Allahabad was chiefly memorable for his horror at the large resort of pilgrims
to bathe in the Ganges, and at the tax by which a Christian government profited by their pagan
superstition, with all its grossness and cruelty.  He brought home a little ticket, with the
number 76902 stamped on it, such as was issued to the pilgrims, and made a strong appeal to
the Governor-General, as well as to persons in England. The next year both this tax and that
on the pilgrims to Jaghernauth were suppressed.  Here he heard of the death of Bishop Corrie,
after having held the see of Madras only a year and a quarter, but having spent many years
in India, and worked there for a whole lifetime, in which he had seen the very dawn of missionary
efforts, and had watched the English Church spread from a few scattered chaplains to three
bishoprics.

Lord Auckland and his sisters were more sincere friends of Christian efforts than any Governor-General
had yet been, but these were trying times.  Mr. Bateman, his daughter's husband, fell ill,
and his wife was obliged to return to England with him; the Bishop's other chaplain died, and
also some of his best friends.  On going, a few years later, to consecrate a church at Singapore,
he visited Moulmein, and was introduced to Dr. Judson, with whom he was very much struck.

The great work connected with Daniel Wilson's name, as that of Bishop's College is with Middleton's,
is the building of the Cathedral of Calcutta.  "What do you say, my four children," he writes,
"to your father's attempting to build a cathedral to the name of the Lord his God in this heathen
land?"  It had been the desire of Bishop Middleton, but there had been too much to do during
his nine years, and it was only now that at last the times were ripe.  Subscriptions were opened,
and the Bishop devoted a large amount of his income to the fund; plans were drawn up, land
granted freely, and on the 9th of October, 1839, the first stone of St. Paul's Cathedral was
laid by the Bishop.

Just at this time there was a most remarkable move made towards Christianity.  Krishnaghur,
130 miles from Calcutta, was the great centre of the worship of Krishna, one of the manifestations
of Vishnu.  Here two missionaries of the Church Missionary Society had been at work; and when
the Bishop was there in 1837, he described them as having made "a little beginning," by keeping
schools and holding conferences with the people, but they had then no adult convert.  A year
after a message was brought by a native, entreating for further help.  There were 1,200 seriously
inquiring into the doctrine, with many candidates for baptism, and at many places around it
was the same.  In the year 1840, the Bishop set forth to visit the spot and the adjacent districts,
where almost all the villages seemed to be actuated by the same impulse.  The missionaries
did their utmost to distinguish between mere fashion and hope of gain and a true faith; but
after all their siftings, large numbers were ready for baptism, and the hope was so great that
the Bishop was full of thankful ecstasy, and could hardly sleep from agitation, joy, and anxiety.
One hundred and fifty converts were baptized at once, at a place called Anunda Bass.  The examination
was thus, the Bishop standing in the midst:--

"Are you sinners?"

"Yes, we are."

"How do you hope to obtain forgiveness?"

"By the sacrifice of Christ."

"What was that sacrifice?"

"We were sinners, and Christ died in our stead."

"How is your heart to be changed?"

"By the Holy Ghost."

"Will you renounce all idolatry, feasts, poojahs, and caste?"

"Yes, we renounce them all."

"Will you renounce the world, the flesh, and the devil?"

"Yes."

"Will you suffer for Christ's sake?"

"Yes."

"Will you forgive injuries?"

"Yes."

These converts had been under preparation for more than a year, and seemed thoroughly convinced
and fairly instructed.  Therefore the baptismal service was read by Mr. Deerr; and when the
vows were reached, the Bishop turned to the Christians around and asked if they would be witnesses
and godparents to these candidates; and, with one voice, they shouted that they would.  Each
candidate was singly baptized, and then came up to the Bishop, by whom the words receiving
him into the Ark of Christ's Church were spoken.  At Ranobunda there was another baptism of
250, and, in the whole district, full a thousand were admitted.  It was not in over-confident
joy.  "Time will show," said the Bishop, "who are wheat and who are tares."  It was impossible
among so many that all should be perfect Christians, but it was a real foundation; the flame
then lighted burns on steadily, and the Christian faith has a firm and strong hold in the district
of Krishnaghur.

Anxieties of course crossed his work.  The Church Missionary Society, after being used to control
its clergy, was not properly ready to allow their canonical obedience to a Bishop; and the
troubles that thus arose made him once speak of Heber as happy in being shielded by his early
death from the class of vexations connected with societies.  To his great grief, too, a lady
who had worked for years at the education of girls and orphans at Calcutta seceded to the Plymouth
Brethren, and was necessarily obliged to give up the charge.  It was to him "as if a standard-bearer
fainteth."  The Oxford controversy also vexed him a good deal.  The school of Newton and Cecil,
in which he had been brought up, was at the most distant point that the Church permitted from
the doctrines of the Tracts for the Times; and few men are able or willing candidly to judge
or appreciate opinions that have grown up since their own budget was completed, especially
after they have been for some time in the exercise of authority.  Thus he set his mind very
strongly against all the clergy holding those views who came to work in the diocese; and thereby
impeded a good deal that might have worked heartily with him if he had only been able to believe
it, and to understand that the maintenance of the voice of the Church is truly the maintenance
of the voice of Christ.

In November 1844, when on a visitation at Umballah, he had his first serious illness, a fever,
he being then in his sixty-sixth year and in the thirteenth of his residence in India.  For
about a week he was in great danger, but rallied, and was able to be removed by slow stages,
though not without an attack of inflammation on the lungs before reaching Calcutta; and his
constitution was altogether so much shaken that he was ordered home, without loss of time,
to recruit his health.

He returned to England by the Overland route, and after a short respite recovered much of his
strength, so as to be able to preach in many churches and appear at numerous meetings; and
in a year's time the vigorous old man was on his way back to his diocese, where he arrived
in time to keep the Christmas of 1846, just two years after he had been stricken down by fever.
In the October of the next year he consecrated his cathedral, towards which 20,000l. had been
his own donation, half towards the building, half towards the endowment.  His strength was
not quite what it had been before, but he still had abundant energy, and new branches of the
Church were springing up around him; not only the three dioceses that had branched from his
own in India, but Ceylon had a Bishop of its own, Australia had five, and the Cape and New
Zealand and the Isle of Hong Kong had each received a Bishop.  The principle had come to be
recognized that to send out isolated workers without a head to organize was a plan that could
hardly be reasonably expected to succeed; and in the long run prosperity has certainly attended
the contrary arrangement. Not to speak of the Divine authority, the action of a body under
a recognized head and superior on the spot must be far readier of adaptation to circumstances
than that of a number of equals, accountable only to some necessarily half-informed Society
at home.

In his 73rd year, just after a visitation tour, it somewhat dismayed Bishop Wilson to find
a letter from the Bishop of London sending him to consecrate the new church erected by Sir
James Brooke, at Sarawak.  Few careers have been more remarkable than that of the truly great
man who subdued Malay piracy, and gained the confidence of the natives of Borneo; and when
the effort of the fourteen weeks' voyage had been made, the Bishop returned full of joy and
hope, and not long after, together with the Bishops of Madras and Victoria, joined in consecrating
the missionary Bishop of Labuan to the new field of work there opening.  On the last journey
of his life he also visited Rangoon, and there consecrated the church, finding the clergy hard
at work and numerous converts.

During the year 1856 he had many attacks of illness, more or less severe; and in December,
in going across the room in haste, he struck himself against a wooden screen, and was thrown
down.  His thigh was broken, and his age was such that great fears for his life were entertained,
but he recovered, and was able to pray with, cheer, and comfort the many anxious hearts at
Calcutta during the dreadful days of the Indian mutiny of 1857, when the churches he had consecrated
were stained with the blood of the worshippers.

But there was no cause for despondency in the attitude of the converts. The districts where
Christianity had been so widely diffused remained tranquil, and the Christians in the cities
where the mutineers were raging did not apostatize; but, unless they could conceal themselves,
suffered with the whites.  There was a great day of fasting and humiliation appointed by him
for the 24th of July, 1857.

That day Bishop Wilson preached his last sermon.  Calcutta was then trembling under the tidings
of the horrors of Cawnpore, the death of Sir Henry Lawrence, and the siege of Lucknow; and
no one knew what peril might be the next.  Slaughter seemed at the very gates, when the old
man stood forth to console and encourage, but yet to give warning strong and clear that these
frightful catastrophes were in great measure the effect of our sins, our fostering of heathenism,
our recognition of caste, and were especially a judgment on the viciousness and irreligion
that had been the curse of English life in India.  It was in open Christianity alone that he
beheld hope.

The day was observed by all the clergy, but the Governor-General for some reason declined to
make it official, and, only when the worst of the danger was over, appointed the 4th of October
as a fast-day.  The Bishop arranged the services, but was too unwell to attend them.  This
was the beginning of his last illness; and though he held an ordination some weeks later, these
latter weeks were all sinking, and increasing feebleness.  A sea-voyage was twice attempted,
but without success; and on the 1st of January, 1858, his trembling hand wrote, "All going
on well, but I am dead almost.--D. C.  Firm in hope."

Daniel Calcutta, whom these initials indicated, wrote these words at half- past seven at night.
By the same hour in the morning he had peacefully passed to his rest.

One more Bishop of Calcutta we have since mourned; though the shortness of his career was owing
to accident, not disease or climate.  But with Daniel Wilson the see of Calcutta became established
as a metropolitan bishopric, and ceased to possess that character of gradual extension which
rendered its first holders necessarily missionaries.  True, it needs many subdivisions.  Four
Bishops are a scanty allowance for our vast Indian Empire, and the see of Calcutta has a boundary
scarce limited to the north; but these are better days than when it included the Cape, Australia,
and New Zealand.  The Bishop has now more to do with the development of old missions than with
the working of new ones; and there can be no doubt that though there has been much of disappointment,
and the progress is very slow, yet progress there is.  The older converts form more and more
of a nucleus, and although there is a large class who hang about missions from interested motives,
there are also multitudes of quiet and contented villagers whose simplicity and remoteness
shield them from the notice of the travellers who sneer at Christianity and call mission reports
couleur de rose, because they have been taken in by some cunning scamp against whom any missionary
would have warned them.

The towns and the neighbourhood of troops are not favourable places for observing the effects
of Christianity.  The work of the schools in the great cities tells but very slowly.  At present,
out of a hundred boys who go thither and receive the facts of Christianity intellectually,
only the minority are practically affected by it; and of these, some lose all faith in their
own system, but retain it outwardly in deference to their families, while others try to take
Christian morality without Christian doctrine; and only one or two perhaps may be sincere and
open believers. But even if only one is gained, is not that an exceeding gain?  It took three
hundred years of apostolic teaching to make the Roman Empire Christian.  Why should we "faint,
and say 'tis vain," after one hundred in India?

CHAPTER VIII.  SAMUEL MARSDEN, THE AUSTRALIAN CHAPLAIN AND FRIEND OF THE MAORI.

It has been mentioned that the island of Australia was considered as an archdeaconry of the
see of Calcutta.  This enormous island, first discovered in 1607 by Luis de Torres, and inhabited
only by the very lowest race of savages, appeared to the Government of George III. a convenient
spot for forming a penal settlement; and in 1787 the first convict ships carried out an instalment
from the English jails to New South Wales, where the city of Sydney was founded by Governor
Phillip.

As usual in those days, the provision made for the moral or religious training of this felon
population was lamentably and even absurdly deficient; for it seemed to be considered, that
so long as the criminals were safe out of England, it did not greatly matter to her what became
of them.  But the power of grace is sure to work sooner or later wherever the Christian name
has been carried, and a holy man rose up, not only to fight hard with the mass of corruption
in Australia, but to carry on the light to the more distant shores of the Southern Ocean.

This good man, Samuel Marsden, was the son of a small farmer at Farsley, near Calverley, in
Yorkshire, and was educated at the free Grammar School at Hull by Dr. Joseph Milner, whose
Church History used to be a standard book in the early part of this century.  He began his
career as a tradesman at Leeds, but his school influences had given him higher aspirations;
and a body termed the Elland Society, whose object was to educate young men of small means
and suitable character for the ministry, and whose chief supporters were Wilberforce, Simeon,
and Thornton, selected him as one of their scholars, and placed him at St. John's College,
Cambridge.  He had not even taken his degree when, to his surprise, he was offered a chaplaincy
in New South Wales!  The post was no doubt a difficult one to fill,--for who would willingly
undertake to be one of two clergymen sent to labour among an untamed multitude of criminals?--and
Mr. Wilberforce was, no doubt, glad to suggest a young man so blameless and full of zeal, and
of whom, from personal observation at Cambridge, Mr. Simeon had so high an opinion.

Samuel Marsden wished to decline it at first; but finding that no one else would come forward
to undertake the charge, he accepted it; and in the spring of 1793 he was ordained, and married,
being then nearly twenty- nine years of age.  His wife, Elizabeth Tristan, was thoroughly worthy
of him, and ruled his house admirably, never calling him back from any duty, but so managing
that his open-handed charity never brought him into difficulties.  They were obliged to take
their passage in a convict ship, which was to sail from Hull.  Marsden was engaged to preach
in a church near the harbour, and was just about to enter the pulpit when the signal- gun was
fired to summon the passengers on board.  He took off his gown, gave his arm to his bride at
her pew door, and walked to the beach, the whole congregation streaming out after them down
to the boat, where the young clergyman stood for a few moments ere pushing off, to give his
parting benedictions.

The ship went round to Portsmouth to receive her load of convicts; and while she was lying
there, Marsden visited the Isle of Wight, and one Sunday preached in Brading Church.  The effect
of his sermon in touching the heart of one young woman was long remembered, in consequence
of a memoir of her, entitled "The Dairyman's Daughter," which was drawn up after her death
by the clergyman of her parish, the Rev. Legh Richmond.

It was as trying a voyage as Henry Martyn's, except that even less was to be expected from
his shipmates.  The captain was unwilling to allow prayers to be read even on Sunday, saying
he had never known a religious sailor; and though, after a time, Mr. Marsden prevailed, he
never felt himself making much impression for good.  One of his books on the voyage was the
Life of David Brainerd, that torch of missionaries, and who proved the example which served
to stir Mr. Marsden to look beyond his own immediate field of labour, severe though that was,
and unflinching as was his toil.

His arrival at Paramatta, his new home, was in the March of 1794, when the convict system had
prevailed about seven years, and had been sufficient to form a population disgraceful to human
nature.  None of those endeavours to reclaim the prisoner which now prevail had then been attempted,
and jails were schools and hotbeds of crime, whence the transported were sent forth to corrupt
each other more and more on board ship; and then, though employed on Government works or assigned
to free settlers as servants, so soon as they had worked out their time of servitude they were
let loose to live after their own will.

Such as had any capacity for steady industry soon made their fortunes on the parcels of land
allotted to them by Government, to which they added by purchase; and these persons, by the
influence of wealth and property, rose into colonial rank and authority, though without any
such real training in the sense of uprightness or morality as could fit them for the posts
they occupied.  The least tainted by crime were the Irish, who had been deported by wholesale
after the rebellion, some without even a form of trial, but these were idle and prone to violence;
while of the regular convicts there was a large proportion addicted to every brutality that
vice could conceive, and their numbers were continually being recruited by fresh shiploads
after the assizes at home.  The only attempt at securing order and tolerable safety was by
visiting every offence, even the slightest, of which a convict was accused in a court of justice,
with the most unrelenting severity; and this, of course, had the effect of further brutalizing
these felon people, making them reckless of the deeds they committed, and often driving them
to become bush-rangers--outlawed wild men of the woods--a terror to the colony.  A powerful
military force was kept up to repress these wretched beings by physical force, but of moral
training there was only what was afforded by the openings for industry in a new country, and
religious teaching was represented by--two chaplains, for convicts, soldiers, settlers, and
all! No wonder that the senior soon broke down under the hopeless toil of such a position,
and left the junior to struggle with it alone.  And nobly he did struggle!  Wilberforce had
made a wise choice of a man in the prime of youth, whose bullet-headed portrait speaks of the
most dogged determination, with nerves, health, and weight enough to contend for a whole lifetime
with the horrible depravity around him--the only clergyman, and with three settlements far
apart dependent on his ministry.  And in the outset he was severely tried by domestic sorrows;
for his eldest son, at two years old, was thrown out of his mother's arms by a jolt to the
carriage over the rough road, and killed on the spot; and a younger child, who was shortly
after left at home from dread of a similar accident, was allowed by its attendant to stray
into the kitchen, where it fell backwards into a pan of boiling water and was fatally scalded.

The father bore these calamities as one who had steadfast faith and resignation--"one who felt
much and said little."  The demands on his time, indeed, left him no leisure for giving way
to grief.  Spiritual matters were not all that came upon him.  In the utter lack of conscientious
men to perform the functions of the magistracy, he was at once appointed to the bench; nor,
indeed, was there the same feeling in England then as now against the combination of the clergyman
and justice of the peace.  The most exemplary parish priests viewed it as a duty to administer
justice in their villages; and the first, and till quite recently the sole manual of prayers
to be used with prisoners, was the production of one of these clerical magistrates.  A Yorkshire
farmer's son could not be expected to know much about law, but good sense, uprightness, perception
of justice, and intense determination, he had, as well as Christian humanity; and in these
he was superior to any of his colleagues on the Paramatta bench, whom he was continually striving
to raise to some comprehension of the commonest rules of justice, mercy, and decency; and in
this, after a long course of years, he in some measure succeeded; but not till after his strong
hand, impartial justice, and hatred of vice, had made him enemies among all parties; and it
is only too probable that his secular authority, though always nobly wielded, impeded rather
than otherwise his pastoral influence.

His farming education served him well when he received a grant of land, and of thirteen convicts
to bring it into order.  It was part of his payment, almost indispensable for procuring to
his family the necessaries of life, and it gave him, besides, the means of imparting instruction
in honest labour.  His property became the model farm of New South Wales, and the profits afforded
him the means of establishing the schools, benevolent institutions, and missions, for which
there were few, if any purses to draw upon.  He won himself respect on all sides, especially
from the Governor of the colony, Captain King, a hasty, violent, but good- hearted man, with
whom more than once he had misunderstandings, but such as were made up again.  On one of these
occasions, the chaplain's advice was asked by the Governor, and promised on condition that
he might speak as to a private individual.  So, when they met, Mr. Marsden locked the door,
and, in plain and forcible terms, gave Captain King a thoroughgoing remonstrance on the faults
of Governor King, which was taken in perfect good part.

Nevertheless, the whole construction of Society was so atrocious, that nothing could effect
any improvement but interference from higher authority.  The Court of Judicature in New South
Wales was the most shamelessly corrupt and abandoned in existence, and a rebellious spirit
broke out which imperilled the military authority of the Governor.  Mr. Marsden saw no hope,
except in laying a full statement in person before the home Government; and therefore, at the
end of fourteen years, when Governor King was about to return home, he resolved to go himself,
and make a strong personal representation to Government.  The two families sailed in the same
ship, the Buffalo, which proved to be leaky; and, when a heavy gale was expected, it was proposed
that the passengers should quit her, and take refuge in a stronger vessel; but Mrs. King was
too unwell to be moved, and Mrs. Marsden would not leave her, so that the proposal was abandoned,
and most providentially, for the ship that had been thought secure was lost in the night and
never seen more!

The voyage was a slow one; and the first thing Mr. Marsden heard on arriving was, that the
insurrection he had expected had actually broken out.  This rendered Lord Castlereagh, then
Colonial Secretary, the more anxious to obtain the advice of a sensible, clear-headed man like
Samuel Marsden, and he was encouraged to explain his views.  First, he was anxious for whatever
would tend to reform the convicts; and having observed that the most respectable of these were
such as had married, or whose wives had come out to them, he begged that, for the future, the
families of the married men might be sent out with them.  This was refused; but his representation
that the convicts ought to be instructed in trades was attended to, when he showed that, by
this means, the whole expense of their clothing might be saved.  He had discerned the wonderful
capacities of Australia for sheep farming, and having brought home some wool, and found it
much approved by the manufacturers, he thereupon ventured to petition the King for a couple
of merino {f:221} sheep from the royal farm at Windsor, to improve the breed.  The request
was after "Farmer George's" own heart; he gave five, and thus Mr. Marsden did the work of agricultural
improvement of the Benedictines of old.  He also obtained that three more clergymen and three
schoolmasters should be sent out; and he strove hard for other institutions, chiefly for the
reformation of the female convicts, which he could not at the time get carried out.  He likewise
conducted an immense correspondence on behalf of persons who had not found any other means
of communicating with their homes; and, at the same time, he became personally acquainted with
Wilberforce, and many others of the supporters of the cause of religion.

Above all, it was in this visit to England that Mr. Marsden laid the foundations of the missions
to New Zealand, and prepared to become the apostle of the Maori race.  These great islands
of New Zealand had been discovered and named by Tasman in 1642, and first visited by Captain
Cook in 1769.  He found them inhabited by a brave, high-spirited, and quick- witted set of
natives, with as large a proportion of the fine qualities sometimes found in a wild race as
ever savages possessed, but their tribes continually at war, and the custom of cannibalism
prevailing: he had been on friendly terms with them, and presented them with pigs, fowls, and
potatoes--no small boon in a land where there was no quadruped bigger than a rat, and very
few esculent vegetables.  From this time, whalers occasionally stopped to take in water, &c.,
and kept up a sort of intercourse with the Maori, sometimes amiable, and resulting in the natives
taking voyages on board the vessels, but sometimes quarrelsome, and characterized by mutual
outrages, when, if a white man were made prisoner, he was sure to be killed and eaten, to serve
as a sort of triumphal and sacrificial banquet.

Nevertheless, it was plain that these Maories were of a much higher type of humanity than the
Australian natives, whom Mr. Marsden had found so far entirely unteachable and untameable,
but for whom he was trying to establish some plan of training and protection.  Such a spirit
of curiosity and enterprise possessed some of the New Zealand chieftains, that they would come
on visits to Australia, and on these occasions Mr. Marsden always gave them a welcome at his
parsonage at Paramatta.  At one time there were thirty staying there, over whom he had great
influence. Once, when he was absent from home, the nephew of one of the chiefs died, and his
uncle immediately prepared to sacrifice a slave; nor could Mrs. Marsden prevent it, otherwise
than by hiding the intended victim till her husband came home, who made the chief understand
that it was not to be done, though the man continued to lament that his nephew was deprived
of his proper attendant in the other world, and seemed afraid to return home, lest the father
of the youth should reproach him with the omission.

Mr. Marsden made known all that he had been able to gather of the promising nature of the field
of labour in New Zealand, and sought aid from the Church Missionary Society, since the Society
for the Propagation of the Gospel was then unable to reach beyond the colonies.  The almost
universal indifference of the upper classes to missionary labour was terribly crippling in
the matter of means; and perhaps the fact was that the underbred class of agents of the Societies
stirred up by the example of Marshman and Carey, together with the vulgarly-sensational appeals
against which Ward's good taste so strongly protested, greatly tended to make them incredulous.
It was not till the statements of scholars and gentlemen, like Henry Martyn and Bishop Heber,
became generally known, that the work was looked on without sarcasm, provoked by vulgarity,
even where there was great devotion.

No clergyman could be found to undertake the mission to New Zealand; but William Hall and John
King, two laymen, undertook to act as pioneers, with instructions to establish family worship,
converse on religion with the natives, and instruct their children; trying, at the same time,
to show the benefits of civilization, but to take care it was not confounded with Christianity.

These two good men, who were presently followed by Thomas Kendall, sailed in the same ship
with Mr. Marsden, when, in August 1809, he paid his last farewell to his native land, and sailed
in the Ann for New South Wales. Strange to say, this very ship contained a Maori, on his return
home!  He was a young chief named Duaterra, who had, in a spirit of adventure, embarked on
board a whaler named the Argo, and worked as a sailor for six months, till the captain, having
no further occasion for his services, put him ashore at Port Jackson, without payment or friends.
However, he embarked in another whaler, and worked his way home, but soon was on board of a
third English ship, the Santa Anna, in search of seal- skins, and having conceived a great
desire to see the country whence these vessels came forth, and to know its chief, he engaged
to come to England in it, the captain and sailors not scrupling to promise him an introduction
to King George.  When the Santa Anna reached England, the crew had grown tired of him, used
him roughly and harshly, and tried to put him off his pertinacious recollection of the promise
of seeing the king, by telling him that King George's house could not be found; while he was
worked beyond his strength, and scarcely ever suffered to go on shore.  When, in fifteen days,
the cargo was all discharged, the captain put him on board the Ann, to be taken back to Australia,
and when he asked for his wages, to provide some clothing, told him that the owner of the ship
would give him two muskets when he should reach Port Jackson.

The poor fellow was little likely to reach it, for lung disease, the great foe of the Maori,
had set in; and he was in a pitiable condition when Mr. Marsden, by chance, remarked his brown
face on the forecastle, and inquired into his history, which was confirmed by the master of
the Ann, and was really only a specimen of a sailor's vague promises, and incapacity to understand
that a dark skin ought to be treated with the same justice as a white one.  Duaterra was a
man of much intelligence, and even under these most unfavourable circumstances had been greatly
impressed with the civilization of England, and was so desirous of improvement that, on arriving
at Port Jackson, Mr. Marsden took him to his farm, where he applied eagerly to the learning
of husbandry.

Duaterra was not the only Maori ill-treated by British sailors.  Another chief having been
used in like manner, or worse, on board the Boyd, bided his time till the ship was in the Bay
of Islands, and then brought his tribe, armed with clubs and hatchets, to revenge his sufferings.
They overpowered the crew, slaughtered and feasted upon them, burning the ship, and only retaining
as captives two women and a boy.  Nevertheless, Hall and King were ready to take the missionaries
to this dangerous spot, but Mr. Marsden thought it best to give time for the passions thus
excited to cool down.

Meantime Governor Macquarie had come out to take charge of New South Wales.  He was a man of
great determination and despotic will, and carried out many regulations that were of exceeding
benefit to the colony, but he did not know the limits of his authority, dealt with the chaplains
as with subordinate officials, and sometimes met with staunch opposition from the sturdy Yorkshireman,
his senior chaplain, so that they were in a state of almost constant feud throughout his government,
although at the end of his career he bore the strongest testimony to the merits of the only
man who durst resist him.  The old game of Ambrose and Theodosius, Hildebrand and Henry, Becket
and Plantagenet, has to be played over and over again, wherever the State refuses to understand
that spiritual matters lie beyond its grasp; and when Governor Macquarie prescribed the doctrines
to be preached and the hymns to be used in the churches, and commanded the most unsuitable
secular notices to be promulgated by the clergy, if Mr. Marsden had not resisted the Church
would have been absolutely degraded.  When convicts of wealth and station, but still leading
most vicious lives, were raised to the magistrates' bench, Mr. Marsden could not but refuse
to associate or act with them, and even tendered his resignation of the magistracy, but Macquarie
would not accept it.  How uncompromising these sermons were is evidenced by an anecdote of
a man, who, being stung to the quick, fancied that the words had been individually aimed at
him, and determined to be revenged.  Accordingly, as soon as he saw the chaplain riding near
a piece of water he jumped in, and when Mr. Marsden at once sprung after him, did his utmost
to drown his intended deliverer; but after a violent struggle the Yorkshire muscles prevailed,
and the man was dragged out, so startled by the shock that he confessed his intention, and,
under the counsel he had so fiercely spurned at first, became truly penitent, and warmly attached
to Mr. Marsden, whose service he ultimately entered.

The square short face and sturdy form of Samuel Marsden show the force, vigour, and determination
of his nature, which told on beast as well as man.  On the road between Sydney and Paramatta,
he used to let the reins lie loose on the splash-board of his gig and read, saying that "the
horse that could not keep itself up was not worth driving," and though one of the pair he usually
drove was unmanageable in other hands, nothing ever went amiss with it when it went out with
its master.  Such a spirit of determination produced an impress even on those who opposed him
most, and many works were carried out in the teeth of the difficulties thrown in their way;
such as the erection of schools, of a factory for the reception of the female convicts, and
of a sort of model farm, where it was intended to collect, tame, and civilize the aborigines.
This was at first planned between the governor and chaplain, but when it was ready Marsden
was under Colonel Macquarie's displeasure, and was therefore excluded from all share in the
management, though the site was actually in his own parish of Paramatta.  The experiment was
a failure, probably not on this account, but from the restless character of the blacks, whose
intellect was too small, and their wants too few, to feel any comfort a compensation for their
freedom and wandering life.  Mr. Marsden and the other chaplains repeatedly tried bringing
up children,--some too young to retain any memory of their native habits, but they always relapsed
into savage life on the first opportunity, and though here and there individuals may have better
come up to the hopes of their devoted friends, yet as a race they seem too little above the
animal to be susceptible of being raised.

Governor Macquarie was an iron-handed man, who could not brook opposition, or endure any scheme
that did not originate with himself.  So when Mr. Marsden laid before him a project for diminishing
the appalling misery and vice in which the utter neglect of Government left the female convicts,
he acknowledged the letter, but did not act upon it.  After waiting eighteen months for him
to take some measure, the chaplain sent a statement of the condition of these poor creatures
to the Colonial Office; it was laid before Parliament, and Lord Bathurst, the Colonial Secretary,
sent a letter of inquiry to the Governor.  Macquarie's fury was intense on finding that the
chaplain had dared to look above and beyond him; and he gave a willing encouragement to whatever
resisted the attempts of Marsden at establishing some sense of religion and morality. After
refusing to accept his resignation of his post as a magistrate, he dismissed him ignominiously,
and all the underlings of Government knew that any attack from them would be regarded with
favour.  A vile and slanderous letter, full of infamous libels, not only against Samuel Marsden,
as a man and a Christian priest, but against the missionaries, and signed "Philo-free," appeared
in the Sydney Herald, the Government paper, and was traced to Macquarie's own secretary!  The
libel was such that Mr. Marsden felt it due to his cause to bring an action against the publisher,
and in spite of the prejudice against him, after a trial of three days, he gained a complete
victory and damages of 200 pounds; but the newspaper published such a false and scandalous
report of the trial that he was obliged a second time to prosecute, and again obtained a verdict
in his favour.

The officers of the 46th Regiment, on leaving the colony, presented him with a testimonial,
and an address most gratifying, amid the general obloquy, and showing a feeling most honourable
to themselves.  Every one who cared for the cause of virtue at home, especially Wilberforce,
Simeon, and Mrs. Fry, wrote encouraging letters to him; and Lord Bathurst, on receiving a despatch
from Macquarie, full of charges against the chaplain as man, magistrate, and minister, sent
out a commission of inquiry, which, coming with fresh eyes from England, was horrified at the
abuses to which the Australian world was accustomed, found every word of Mr. Marsden's perfectly
justified, and at last extracted the following confession from Colonel Macquarie: "The Governor
admits that Mr. Marsden's manner to him has been constantly civil and accommodating, and that
nothing in his manner could provoke the Governor's warmth.  The Governor admits his qualifications,
his activity, and his unremitting vigilance as a magistrate, and in society his cheerful disposition
and readiness to please."  The report of this commission resulted, among other more important
consequences, in the unsolicited grant of 400 pounds a year additional stipend to Mr. Marsden,
"in consideration of his long, laborious, and praiseworthy exertions in behalf of religion
and morality."  This was only fitting compensation on the part of Government, for the accusation
of avarice had brought to light how many schools and asylums, the proper work of the Government,
had been built, and were being maintained, out of the proceeds of the farm which had prospered
so excellently.

As long as Macquarie continued in office, Mr. Marsden was out of favour, but Sir Thomas Brisbane,
who came out in 1821, was friendly with him, and knew his value, insisting on his returning
to the bench of magistrates. He did all he could to avoid it, till the judges and almost every
one in the colony so urged him to accept that he yielded; but in 1824 a case occurred in which
a rich and insolent culprit was severely punished by the Paramatta bench, and contrived to
raise such an outrageous storm that Sir Thomas Brisbane, who, if better disposed, was more
timid than his predecessor, dismissed the whole five magistrates.  The offender's wish had
been merely to overthrow Mr. Marsden, but this was found impossible. The whole fury of the
colony again rose against this fearless man, and accusations absolutely absurd were trumped
up.  One was that he allowed his windmill to work on Sunday!  The fact turned out to be, when
investigated, that somebody had once seen the sails turning on a Sunday, some time before Mr.
Marsden had purchased the land on which the mill stood.  A real act of persecution affected
him more seriously, as it was the ruin of another person in whom he was interested.  There
was an old regulation forbidding the hiring out of convicts who were assigned to residents
as domestic servants, but this had been virtually repealed by another under Macquarie, permitting
such hiring out on the owners complying with certain rules.  These had been duly attended to
by Mr. Marsden in the case of one James Ring, a plumber and glazier, who, as a reward for good
conduct, was allowed to go out to work in Paramatta for his own profit.  Being ill-used and
beaten by another servant, he summoned the man before the bench of magistrates, but these,
who had been put in when Mr. Marsden and his colleagues were dismissed, immediately committed
Ring to jail for being at large.  His master went to demand his release, showing that the rules
had been observed, but the magistrates replied by levying a fine of two-and-sixpence for every
day that Ring had been at work, and as Marsden did not offer to pay, they sent a convict constable
to his house to seize property to that amount, while poor Ring himself was sent to work in
irons with the penal gang; though at that very moment one of the magistrates had a servant,
a tailor, at work in Mr. Marsden's house; and another person had two hired convicts of another
of these justices employed at his home.  In fact, it was the only sentence of the kind ever
inflicted, yet Sir Thomas Brisbane was afraid to interfere; whereupon Mr. Marsden caused his
case to be tried before the Supreme Court, and so completely proved it, that restitution of
the illegal fine was commanded, though the spirit of persecution was still shown in the absurdly
small sum of damages allotted to him.  What was worse was that he could not procure the release
of Ring, for while he was sending an appeal to England the unhappy man lost patience, ran away
from the gang where he was working in irons on the roads, and escaped to New Zealand, but was
never heard of more.  Had he but borne with his misery a little longer he would have been restored
to his kind master, for a commission came out which a second time resulted in the complete
triumph of Mr. Marsden, and the entire discomfiture of his persecutors.

We have gone through the history of his home troubles before entering on the part that concerned
his missionary labours.  It is a painful picture, but the staunch firmness that never failed
to "boldly rebuke vice," is too essential a part of the picture to be passed over.  The Apostle
of New Zealand was the Baptist of the Herods of Australia.  We return to the year 1816, when,
after some months' training in agriculture at Mr. Marsden's farm, Duaterra had sailed for his
home, but only again to suffer from the perfidy of the master of the ship.  The ordinary English
mind seemed incapable of perceiving that any faith need be kept with a dark-coloured man, and
Duaterra was defrauded of his share of the oil procured from the whales he had helped to catch,
carried past his own shores, only two miles from the pah where the master had engaged to land
him, and turned adrift in the then uninhabited Norfolk Island, where a whaler picked him up
almost starved, and brought him back to Australia. However, Mr. Marsden found another ship,
which did fulfil its engagements, and Duaterra was at last set ashore in the Bay of Islands,
close to the northern point of New Zealand, with a supply of wheat which Mr. Marsden had given him.

Two years had passed, and Mr. Marsden had been trying to procure from the Society at home a
mission ship to carry teachers to the islands, visit them, and supply their wants there, but
he had not as yet succeeded, and he therefore decided on purchasing a small one from Australia
at his own expense.  This was the Active, the first of the mission vessels that now bear the
Cross in several quarters of the globe.  In her Hall and King sailed, and Mr. Marsden would
have accompanied them but for the express prohibition of Governor Macquarie, who, little as
he loved his senior chaplain, did not choose to lose him on what he regarded as a scheme of
almost fanatic folly.  The two teachers were not to settle on shore, nor even to sleep there,
but they were to visit Duaterra, reconnoitre the ground, and see whether it would be possible
to settle there as they had at first proposed.

To their delight, Duaterra came eagerly to meet them, very anxious for their assistance with
his corn.  He had shown it to his tribe, telling them that hence came the bread and biscuit
they had eaten in English ships, and great had been their disappointment when neither the ear
nor the root of the wheat proved at all like these articles.  However, he had been successful
in his farmer operations, but was entirely puzzled by those of the miller, only knowing that
the grain ought to be ground, and unable to contrive it, though he had borrowed a coffee-mill
from a trading vessel.  When the new comers produced a hand-mill he was delighted.  His kindred,
to whom he had been a laughing-stock for averring that biscuit had any connection with his
new grass, crowded round incredulously to watch the mill, showed unbounded amazement as the
white flour streamed forth, and when a cake was hastily made and baked in a frying-pan they
leapt about shouting and dancing for joy.  Duaterra, his uncle Hunghi, a very powerful chief,
and five more, accepted an invitation to come and confer with Mr. Marsden, and the Active brought
them back to New South Wales.  They were very anxious for the benefits which they hoped to
derive from intercourse with the whites, and readily undertook to secure Hall and King from
all danger.  Even Governor Macquarie was so far satisfied that he consented to let Mr. Marsden
go out and arrange the new settlement, to which he presented two cows and a bull.  These, with
three horses, and some sheep and poultry, were embarked on board the Active, with a motley
collection of passengers, the eight Maories, the three missionaries with their wives and children,
a sawyer, a smith, Mr. Marsden, and another gentleman named John Lydiard Nicholas, the master
of the vessel, his wife, son, and crew, which included two Tahitians, and lastly a runaway
convict who had secreted himself on board.  Their arrival might have been rendered dangerous
by the conduct of a whaling crew at Wangaroa, in the northern island of New Zealand, who, by
way of retaliation for the massacre of the Boyd's ship- company, had murdered a chief named
Tippahee with all his family, without waiting to find out whether he had been concerned in
the slaughter. Nevertheless, these brave men were ready to dare to the utmost, and the fame
of Mr. Marsden, "the friend of the Maori," had preceded him, and the Active was welcomed with
presents of fish and visits from the natives.

They found that Tippahee's people at Wangaroa had accused the tribe of the Bay of Islands of
leading the English to murder their chief, that there was in consequence a deadly feud, and
that several desperate battles had been fought.  Marsden knew that if he came as the friend
of Duaterra and his tribe alone, party spirit would entirely alienate the rest of the islanders,
and he therefore determined at once to prove that he came not as the ally of one party, but
as the friend of both.  He therefore determined to prove to the Wangaroans his confidence in
them by not only landing among them unarmed, but actually spending the night among them.  His
friend Mr. Nicholas accompanied him in this, one of the most intrepid actions ever performed,
when it is remembered that this tribe consisted of the cannibals who had eaten his own countrymen,
and had of late been freshly provoked.  The two gentlemen supped in Hunghi's hut on potatoes
and fish, and then quietly walked over to the hostile camp, where they met with a friendly
welcome.  One of the natives who had sailed in an English vessel was able to interpret, and
with his assistance Mr. Marsden explained the purpose of the missionaries, and the desirableness
of peace.  Maories appreciate being spoken to at length and with due respect, and they listened
politely, making speeches in their own fashion in return, until towards eleven, when most had
gone to rest. The two Englishmen wrapped themselves in their great coats and lay down, the
interpreter bidding them lie near him.  It was a clear night, countless stars shining above,
the sea in front smooth, all around a forest of spears stuck upright in the earth, and on the
ground the multitude of human beings in their scanty loose garb of tapa cloth lying fast asleep,
while the man who had come as an apostle to them spent the night in thought and prayer.  Such
a scene can never be forgotten!

In the morning the ship's boat came to fetch him off, and he took the chiefs back with him
to the ship to receive presents and be introduced to those who were to live among them.  There
was also a formal reconciliation with Duaterra and his tribe, and the wondering Maories took
their travelled brother into high estimation when they really beheld the animals they had imagined
to be mere creations of his fancy, and were specially amazed at the sight of Mr. Marsden mounted
on horseback.

Duaterra, meantime, of his own accord, was making preparations for the first Sunday service
held in New Zealand.  It was likewise the Christmas Day of 1815, and Mr. Marsden felt it a
most appropriate moment for his first proclamation of the good tidings of great joy among this
most distant of the nations.  Duaterra's ideas of a church consisted in enclosing about half
an acre of land with a fence, and erecting in the midst a reading-desk three feet, and a pulpit
six feet high, both made out of canoes, covered with either black native cloth or some canvas
he had brought from Port Jackson, and ranging near them some bottoms of old canoes, as seats
for the English part of the congregation, and on the hill above he hoisted, of his own accord,
the British flag.

On the Sunday morning Duaterra, his uncle, and Koro Koro, another chief who had been in Australia,
all appeared in regimentals given them by Governor Macquarie, swords by their sides, and switches
in their hands, and all their men drawn up behind them.  When the English had entered, the
chiefs arranged their tribes, and Mr. Marsden began by singing the Old Hundredth Psalm, the
first note of praise to the Creator that ever rung from the bays and rocks of New Zealand.
Then he went through the Christmas Day service, his twenty-two English joining in it, and Koro
Koro making signs with his switch to the natives when to stand and when to sit.  Mr. Marsden
ended with a sermon on the Angelic greeting, and when the natives complained that they could
not understand, Duaterra promised to explain afterwards, and this he performed--it may be feared,
after a fashion of his own, for as yet he was very ignorant, although very acute.

Mr. Marsden's principle was not that of Eliot, to begin with the faith, then come to civilization.
He thought that the benefits of civilization would lead to the acceptance of the faith; and,
besides, he had only laymen to act as teachers; and, as his system was that of the Church,
he could only employ them in laying foundations, in preparing instead of admitting converts,
while his own duties only permitted of his making flying visits.  So he established his settlers
to show the benefits of peace, industry, and morality, and thus bring the natives to look higher.
Seed, tools, clothing, he assisted them in procuring and using, but his smith was expressly
forbidden ever to make or repair any warlike weapon, or the settlers ever to barter muskets
or powder for any possession of whatever value with the natives.  He likewise strove, in his
conversations with the chiefs, to show the evils of their vices in such a manner as their shrewd
minds could enter into, trying to make them see the disgrace and horror of cannibalism, and
the inconveniences of polygamy, thus hoping to raise their standard.

In order that the mission settlement might have some security, he purchased a plot of land
in the name of the Church Missionary Society, drawing up a regular deed of sale, to which his
signature was affixed, together with a likeness of the tattooed pattern of the Maori chieftain's
face.  Duaterra walked about with him in delight, talking of the time when the church should
be built, and planning the spot; but the poor fellow had probably never recovered the injury
his constitution had suffered, for he fell ill, and his state was soon hopeless.  It was a
great grief to Mr. Marsden, who had reckoned much on his assistance, and found it hard to acquiesce
in the will of Providence, more especially as the poor young man was not yet so entirely a
Christian as to warrant baptizing him.  He begged Mr. Marsden to pray with him, but he kept
his heathen priest at hand, and his mind was tossed to and fro between the new truth and the
old superstition.  In this state Mr. Marsden was forced to leave him, four days before his
death, when Kendall, who visited him to the last, was shocked at the savage manner in which
his relatives gashed themselves, to show their grief, and far more when his favourite wife
stole out and hung herself, according to a frequent custom, regarded as rather honourable than
otherwise!

Soon after his death fresh wars broke out, and a hostile tribe encamped near the mission settlement,
loudly threatening to kill and devour the inhabitants, who, for months together, had to keep
watch day and night, put their children to bed in their clothes ready for instant flight, and
had their boat always afloat with oars and sails; but they remained steadfast, and the danger
passed over.

The Active plied backwards and forwards, supplying them with the necessaries of life, and bringing
guests to the farm at Paramatta, where Mr. Marsden provided instruction for them.  Two, named
Tooi and Teterree, were sent in charge of Mr. Nicholas to visit England in a King's ship, where
they had learnt to speak English tolerably, and to follow the customs of civilized society.
They were gentle and intelligent, and eager to learn, but no one could reckon on what would
interest or excite them.  They were taken to see St. Paul's Cathedral, which did not seem to
strike them at all; but, as they were walking along Fleet Street, they came to a sudden stand
before a hairdresser's shop, screaming out, "Women, women," as they beheld the display of waxen
busts, which they thought did credit to the Pakeha, or English, style of preserving dried human
heads!  Like Duaterra, their great anxiety was to see King George; but, in 1817, the apology
recorded in Teterree's English letter was only too true,--"I never see the King of England,
he very poorly; and Queen Charlotte very poorly too."

On their return to Paramatta, Mr. Marsden made a second visit to New Zealand, taking them back,
and also going to instal some fresh missionaries and mechanics on a new settlement.  There
was great competition among the chiefs; for the possession of a Pakeha, or Englishman, was
greatly coveted as a means of bringing the material good things of life, and Mr. Marsden was
eagerly assured that there was no danger of the English being killed and eaten, since the Maori
flesh was much sweeter, because the whites ate so much salt.  There was as yet no convert,
but Mr. Marsden's resolution by no means failed him; he believed--and he was right--that kindness,
truth, and uprightness, in those who could confer temporal benefits, would, in time, lead these
intelligent men to appreciate the spiritual blessings that were offered to them.

Presents of hoes, with which to plant the sweet potato, were greatly appreciated.  Hunghi's
head wife was working away with a wooden spade, though perfectly blind, and was delighted with
the new instrument. Indeed, Hunghi was one of the most eager friends of the mission, though
the splendidly tattooed heads of his enemies decorated his abode, and he defended cannibalism,
on the ground that animals preyed upon one another, and that the gods devoured each other.
His manners had all the high-bred courtesy that marked the chief, and he was a noble-looking
creature, full of native majesty and gentleness.  Every hope was entertained of him, and he
was sent, in 1820, to visit England, where he had an interview with George IV., and received
presents of weapons from him.  But the moral Hunghi brought home was, "There is but one king
in England.  There shall be but one in New Zealand."  And this consummation he endeavoured
to bring about by challenging a hostile chief whom he met on his way back from Sydney to New
Zealand.  He gained the battle, by arranging his men in the form of a wedge, and likewise by
the number of muskets with which he was able to arm them.  When the chief himself fell by his
hand, he drank his fresh blood, and devoured his eye, in the belief that it thus became a star
in the firmament, and conferred glory on himself; and the whole battle-field was covered with
the ovens in which his followers cooked the flesh of the prisoners whom they did not keep as
slaves!

This horrible scene took place while Mr. Marsden was in Australia, but he could hardly have
prevented it.  Probably the chief's ferocity, so long repressed, was in a state of reaction;
for, though the missionaries were not molested, their efforts seemed lost.  Hunghi declared
that he wished his children to learn to fight, not to read; and the Maoris insisted on being
paid for any service to the missionaries in fire-arms and powder. When this was refused they
became insolent and mischievous, intruding into the houses, demanding food, breaking down the
fences, and stealing whatever they could seize; and there was reason to fear that any excitement
might lead to absolute danger.  In this crisis some of the missionaries failed, sold ammunition,
and otherwise were wanting in the testimony they were intended to maintain.  The tidings determined
Mr. Marsden on making a fourth visit to New Zealand: and this time he was able to take with
him a clergyman, the Rev. Henry Williams, who lived to become Bishop of a Maori district. 
It was nine years since the first landing there, and, in spite of all disappointments, he found
many of the natives much improved, and the friendly chiefs quite able to understand his prohibition
against the sale of powder, although they were at first inclined to be angry at his having
sent home a missionary on that account.  The other missionaries expressed repentance for their
errors, but he was not thoroughly satisfied with them, though allowing much for their isolation
from Christian society and ordinances.

A Wesleyan mission had been established at Wangaroa, which he visited and assisted, and finding
Mr. Leigh, the chief minister, very ill, offered him a passage to Sydney for advice, but this
ship had scarcely weighed anchor before a great storm came on; the ship was lost, and the crew
and passengers had to land in boats, and return for two months longer before a ship could be
found to bring them home, and in this time he did all in his power to bring the Maories to
agree to some settled form of government under a single chief; but though any chief, especially
Hunghi, was quite willing to be that one, nobody would be anything secondary, and thus the
project failed.  He also set the missionaries the task of endeavouring to collect a fixed vocabulary
and grammar, which might be available in future translations.  The great kindness shown him
at his shipwreck had greatly touched his heart, especially in contrast with the usage he was
meeting with in Australia, for this was in the height of the persecution about Ring, which
detained him at home for more than two years.  During this time Mr. Williams was joined by
his brother William, also a priest of the English Church, but the wars of the Maories had become
so desperate that the peril of the missionaries had been much increased; indeed, the Wesleyans
had had the whole of their premises ravaged, so that the minister came as a fugitive to find
a refuge at Paramatta, as a guest of Mr. Marsden.

That brave soldier of his Lord decided on going at once to the scene of peril.  Though sixty-three
years old, he sailed as soon as possible in H.M.S. Rainbow, but found peace restored and the
danger to his missions over.  He therefore came back, after remaining only five days at his
labours in New South Wales, to the superintendence of the translation of several chapters of
Holy Scripture, and to the instruction of the young Maories at the sort of college he had tried
from the first to keep up at Paramatta, but which he was forced to abandon, since the delicate
lungs of the Maories could not endure the parching dryness of the Australian climate.

By the time he went again to New Zealand, in 1830, Hunghi had been killed in battle, and the
nation was fast dwindling between war and a disease resembling the influenza.  It was estimated
that in twenty years the numbers had diminished by one-half, and in the meantime English settlers
were entering on the lands so numerously that it was evident that before long the islands would
be annexed to the British crown.  Mr. Marsden had hoped at first that this brave and intelligent
people might have been Christianized and civilized, so as to stand alone, but finding that
their deadly feuds and internecine savagery rendered this impossible, he thought it best to
prepare them to come willingly under a curb that he trusted would be no more than beneficial.

He found the missionaries much alarmed, for a horrible battle had just been fought, caused
by the misconduct and insulting behaviour of the crew of an English ship.  One tribe had taken
their part, another had risen to revenge the affront, and a great mutual slaughter had taken
place; victory had remained with the avengers, and though the offending crew had sailed away,
it was apprehended that all the English might suffer in their stead.  There was not an hour
to be lost.  Mr. Marsden and Mr. Williams crossed the bay and entered the camp of the English
allies, where they were affectionately greeted, and allowed to carry proposals of peace to
the victorious party, but there they met with a less friendly reception, being told that they
were answerable for the lives of those who had fallen in the battle, since it had been occasioned
by the misconduct of their countrymen.  When Mr. Marsden promised to write to England to prevent
the return of the offenders, the savages desired he would do no such thing, since they only
desired vengeance.  However, they agreed to hold a meeting with the hostile tribe, and endeavour
to come to terms.  Early the next morning thirty-six canoes arrived opposite to the mission
station, some containing forty men; and notice was given that if the commissioners appointed
on either side did not come to terms, the white men would be the sacrifice.

The day was spent in conferences, but at night the chief of the hostile tribe clove a stick
in two, in token that his anger was broken, and the two parties joined in a hideous war-dance,
frequently firing their muskets; but peace was ratified, and Mr. Marsden found that real progress
had been made among the natives around the stations.  Many had become true and sincere Christians,
among them the widow and daughters of Hunghi.  A Maori Christian woman was married by Mr. Marsden
to an Englishman.  She made all the responses in good English, and appeared in decent English
clothes of her own sewing.  He also married a young man, free, and of good family, to a girl
who had been a slave taken in war, who was redeemed from her master for five blankets, an axe,
and an iron pot.  A number of natives lived round the missions, attending the services, and
working with a good deal of industry and intelligence, and an increasingly large proportion
of these were openly baptized Christians.

A seventh visit was paid by Mr. Marsden in 1837, when seventy-two years of age.  On his return
an officer in the ship observed: "I think, sir, you may look on this as your last visit to
New Zealand."  "No," he answered, "I intend to be off again in about six weeks; the people
in the colony are becoming too fine for me now.  I am too old to preach before them, but I
can talk to the New Zealanders."  He adhered to his purpose, and his daughter, Martha, who
had been with him on his last voyage, accompanied him again in this.  There had been some quarrels
with the crews of ships, but the natives always separated Mr. Marsden from the misdeeds of
his people, and the old chiefs were delighted to see him. "Stay with us and learn our language,"
one of them said: "become our father and our friend, and we will build you a house."  "No,"
replied another, "we cannot build a house good enough, but we will hire Europeans to do it for us."

Wherever he went, he was hailed as the friend of the Maori, and he made a progress through
all the mission stations, which were growing up numerously, and whence Christianity was fast
spreading by the agency of the Maories themselves.  A chief named Koromona, made captive in
Hunghi's great war, who had become blind, had been converted by Mr. William Williams, and soon
learnt the whole Liturgy, with many chapters of the Bible, and hymns, by heart, and was fit
to be sent as a teacher among the other tribes.  Sunday was generally observed, cannibalism
and polygamy were retreating into the more remote and heathenish regions, and there was every
token that the noble Apostle of New Zealand had verily conquered a country and people for the
Church of God.  Terrible wars among the tribes, provoking all the old ferocities, still were
liable to arise, and the whaling crews, among whom might be found some of the most unscrupulous,
licentious, and violent of mankind, continued to take advantage of there being no regular jurisdiction
to commit outrages, which spread corruption or provoked retaliation, and for this there was
no remedy but annexation to the British crown, which the influence of the mission was leading
the natives themselves to desire, though this was not carried out till after Mr. Marsden's death.

This last visit took place in 1837.  By that time the persecutions and troubles of Mr. Marsden's
colonial life had been outlived,--though even as late as 1828, he writes about a pamphlet which
actually charged him with inflicting torture to extract confession!  But his character outweighed
all such absurd charges, and as a more respectable class of settlers flowed into the colony
he was better appreciated.  What the tone must have been may be guessed from the fact that
when, in 1825, Governor Darling began regularly to attend church with his wife and family,
it was regarded as an unexampled act in the supreme magistrate!

Mr. Marsden lost his wife in 1835, but his daughter did her best to minister to his happiness,
and was his companion and assistant in all he undertook.  Once, when she was driving with him,
two of the most terrible of the bushrangers, who were feared by the whole country, broke forth
upon them, seized the horse, and holding a loaded pistol to Mr. Marsden's breast, bade her
empty his pockets into their hands, threatening to shoot them both if either said a word. 
Nevertheless, the fearless old man continued to remonstrate with them on their wicked life,
telling them that he should see them again upon the gallows, and though they charged him with
savage threats not to follow them with his eyes, he turned round and continued to warn them
of the consequences of a life like theirs.  In a few months' time they were captured, and it
did actually fall to his lot to attend them to the scaffold.

Yet, though of this fearless mould, he was one of the most loveable of men; everyone on his
farm, as well as all little children, and the savages he conversed with, all loved him passionately.
Some young Maories, whom he brought back on his last voyage, used to race after his gig to
catch his eye, and when they took hold of any book, used to point upwards, as if whatever was
associated with Matua, as they called him, must lead to heaven.  He was fond of playing with
children, and never was so happy as when he yearly collected the schoolchildren of Paramatta
on his lawn, for a feast and games after it.

In 1834, the Rev. William Grant Broughton, one of the clergy of Australia, took home an account
of the spiritual destitution of New South Wales, and the effect was that in 1836 a bishopric
was there created, and the first presentation given to him.  Some thought that this was a passing
over of the chaplain who had laboured so hard for so many years, but Mr. Marsden himself only
observed that it was better thus: he was too old a man, and it was with sincere goodwill that
he handed over the charge he had held for more than forty years, so that only the parish of
Paramatta remained to him, and there he continued his ministry in church, to the sick, and
among the poor to the end.

On the last Sunday of his life he seemed in his usual health; but for the first time he did
not take part in the service, and at the celebration he seemed to be so overcome by his feelings
as not to move from his place to communicate, when, after a pause, his son-in-law went to him
with the sacred elements.  There were many tears shed by those who foreboded that his hand
would never administer to them again.  On the Tuesday he set out for a short journey, but apparently
he took a chill on the way to the house of his friend, Mr. Styles, at Windsor, and arrived
unwell; erysipelas in the head came on, with a stupor of the faculties, and he died on Saturday,
the 12th of May, 1838,--a man much tried, but resolute, staunch, and gallant, and, in the end,
blessedly successful.

Two years later, New Zealand, by the wish of the Maories themselves, was added to the British
dominions, a bishopric was erected there, and, did not our bounds forbid us to speak of those
who are still among us, we could tell much of the development, under Bishop Selwyn, of Samuel
Marsden's work: though, alas! there is a tale to tell that disgraces, not our Government, but
our people,--a story of lust of land and of gain, and of pertinacious unfairness towards the
Maori, which has alienated a large number of that promising and noble people, led to their
relapse into the horrors from which they had been freed, overthrown their flourishing Church
in favour of a horrid, bloodthirsty superstition, and will probably finish its work by the
destruction of the gallant race that once asked our protection.

CHAPTER IX.  JOHN WILLIAMS, THE MARTYR OF ERROMANGO.

Of Welsh extraction, and respectable though humble parentage, the pioneer and martyr of Polynesia,
John Williams, was born at Tottenham High Court, London, in the year 1796.  His parents were
Nonconformists, and he was educated at a "commercial" school at Edmonton, where the teaching
did not aim at much beyond writing and accounts, all that was supposed, at that time, to be
needful for a young tradesman.  The chief point remembered of his childhood was an aptitude
and handiness which caused all little breakages to be kept for John to repair,--a small quality,
but one of no small importance in the life of a missionary, who often finds ready resource
essential to safety and to influence.

His mother was a good and religious woman, whose one great purpose in choosing a situation
was to place him in a family where he might be influenced for good; and she was fortunate in
finding a furnishing ironmonger whose care of his apprentices exactly met her views.  While
serving his time, John Williams was observed to delight in the hard practical work of the forge
far more than in the easier and more popular employments of the shop, and he was always eager
to be sent out to execute repairs, a task that was rather despised by his companions.  He was
not regarded as a religious youth till he was about eighteen; he considered that a serious
direction had been given to his mind one Sunday evening, when his master's wife, finding him
just about to enter a tea- garden with some idle companions, persuaded him to come with her
to chapel, where he heard an impressive sermon that gave a colour to his life.

After this, distinct habits of piety were formed, Williams was admitted to full membership
at the chapel called the Tabernacle, and, together with others of the more earnest young men
of the congregation, formed a society called "The Youths' Class," one of those associations
which, under whatever form, have, in all ages of Christianity, been found a most powerful and
salutary means of quickening, uniting, and strengthening the young by the sense of fellowship.
The lads met every Monday evening for discussion, and every eighteenth Monday was devoted to
special prayer. The minister of the chapel did not naturally preside, but would often look
in, say a few words on the subject in hand, and thus keep watch that the debates were properly
conducted.

It was through this pastor, Mr. Wilks, that John Williams first imbibed his interest in the
missionary cause,--an interest that gradually grew upon him so much, that in his twentieth
year he decided upon devoting himself to the task.  Good Mr. Wilks freely gave the young ironmonger
assistance in supplying the deficiencies of his education, and in July 1816 he was presented
to the directors of the London Missionary Society, and passed an examination, after which he
was accepted, before he was out of his apprenticeship.  According to rule, so young and so
insufficiently instructed a man would ordinarily have had some years of training before actually
undertaking to labour among the heathen, but there was at the moment an urgent call for aid
from various branches, and it was decided, by a special vote of the committee, to send him
out as soon as possible to the South Sea Islands.  His master willingly released him from the
seven months that remained of his term; nor had his time of apprenticeship been by any means
wasted, for the mechanical skill he had acquired was of great importance to his success as
a civilizer.  Marriage was always recommended to the missionaries of the Baptist Societies,
and Williams's fate was no sooner decided than he chose Mary Channer, a constant attendant
at the Tabernacle, and a woman helpful, kind, and brave, as befitted a missionary's wife.

A great meeting was soon after held, as a sort of dedication of the new labourers, nine in
number, who were thence to go forth,--five to South Africa, four to Polynesia.  Among the Africans
was Robert Moffat, a name memorable, both on his own account and as the father-in-law of Livingstone.
An elderly minister stood forth and questioned the young men in the face of the congregation
on their faith, their opinions, their motives, and their intentions; and then a Bible was solemnly
presented to each by an elder minister, John Angell James, of Birmingham, one of the most able
and highly reputed Nonconformists then living; and another minister, Dr. Waugh, addressing
himself to Williams, who was much the youngest of the nine, said, "Go, my dear young brother,
and if your tongue cleave to the roof of your mouth, let it be with telling poor sinners the
love of JESUS CHRIST; and if your arms drop from their shoulders, let it be with knocking at
men's hearts to gain admittance for Him there."

The impression never left John Williams, and the injunction was fulfilled to the utmost of
his power.  He was a man of strong and vigorous frame, well fitted to encounter the perils
of climate; and with much enterprise, hardihood, and ingenuity.  That his mind was in some
degree narrowed by want of education, perhaps mattered less in the peculiar field of his labours,
where he was seldom brought in contact with wide questions.  He had the excellent quality of
ready sympathy and adaptability to the persons around him, whether civilized or savage, and
was so good-natured and yielding in unimportant matters, that the strength and firmness with
which he would stand up for whatever he viewed as a matter of conscience, always took his opponents
by surprise; but it was always long before this point was reached, and he was perhaps too ready
to give up when it was judgment rather than right and wrong that came into play.  Williams's
face, as given in the portrait attached to his "History of Missionary Enterprise in the South
Sea," curiously agrees with his history.  There is much power about the brow, much enterprise
in the strong, somewhat aquiline nose, great softness and sweetness in the eyes, but the thickness
of the lips and chin betray the want of cultivation; indeed, the curious manner in which the
mouth is pursed up, would seem to indicate that an eager temper naturally kept it unclosed,
and that the restraint of sitting for a picture rendered the expression uncomfortably prim.

The Polynesian Mission on which John Williams was sent, had been commenced in 1796 by the London
Missionary Society, partly in consequence of the death-bed entreaties of Selina, Countess of
Huntingdon, who had been exceedingly interested by the accounts of the South Sea Islands in
Captain Cook's Voyages.  The subscriptions amounted to 10,000l., and were sufficient to purchase
a ship called the Duff, which was commanded by that Captain Wilson whose wonderful history
has been noticed in the lives of the Serampore body.  Twenty-five missionaries were taken out,
and received at Tahiti with grotesque dances and caperings.  The dwelling, which had been erected
when Captain Bligh was collecting bread- fruit, was given to them, and several were placed
there, while the Duff carried others to the Friendly and Marquesan Islands, and, after visiting
them all a second time, returned home for reinforcements.

On the next voyage, however, with a different captain, the Duff was captured by a French privateer,
the captain of which, when he understood the purpose of the voyage, greatly regretted what
he had done, and declared that he would rather have given 500l. than have interfered with it.
He landed the missionaries at Monte Video, and assisted them in obtaining a passage home, in
the course of which they were again captured by a Portuguese, whose treatment of them was a
wretched contrast to that of the friendly Frenchman.

Meantime, many disasters had befallen the unassisted missionaries, who suffered from the hostility
of a section of the natives, though the king, Pomare, always protected them.  One of their
number insisted on marrying a native woman still unconverted, separated from his brethren,
and was soon after murdered by the natives.  Another was lost in a still sadder way.  He reasoned
himself into doubts of the Divine power and of the immortality of the soul, and finally left
the island, nor was he heard of again for many years, though prayer was constantly made for
him, and at length it became known that he had wandered to Serampore, where the influence of
Marshman and Carey had prevailed to bring back his faith, but he had since been lost at sea.
What wonderful glimpses we get of strange wild lives!

But the Tahitian Mission had not included any one leading character, so that it may be enough
to state that, after years of patient effort and often of danger, the missionaries beheld King
Pomare II., the successor of him whom they had found on the throne, solemnly burn his idols,
and profess himself a Christian.

From that time the island has been Christian.  The standard of morality has been by no means
as high as it ought to be, and there is much disappointment in dealing with any nation, with
none more so than with an indolent and voluptuous people, in a climate disposing them to inertness,
and in a part subject to the visits of lawless seamen of all nations. However, the mission
kept its hold of Tahiti, until the French, in 1844, began a series of aggressions, which ended
in their establishing a protectorate over the islands, introducing their Church, and doing
all in their power to discourage the London Mission, to which, however, many of the natives
still adhere.

This, however, is anticipating.  When the five young men sailed in 1817, and after a kindly
welcome on their way from Mr. Marsden at Sydney, things were in the full blush of promise.
Eight hundred people worshipped at the chapel of Erineo, near the landing-place.  It was a
circular building, a good deal like a haystack, with walls of stakes, a thatch of large leaves,
and a desk in the centre of the floor for the preacher.  This was his first station, and whilst
there he gave his assistance in building a ship, to enable King Pomare to open a trade with
New South Wales.  He stayed in this place till he had become familiar with the language, and
his first child was born there.

Not long after some allies of Pomare, from Huahime, struck with the benefits produced among
the Tahitians by the missionaries, entreated that some might be sent to them likewise; and
Williams, his wife and child, with two other married pairs, and an interpreter, were told off
for the mission.

They were welcomed eagerly, had oval huts assigned to them, and no lack of pork and yams, but
Mr. Williams did not long remain there, being called away by an invitation from Raiatea.  This
is one of the loveliest of tropical islands, the largest of the Society Islands.  Huge mountain
masses rise from the centre of an isle, about fifty miles in circumference, and give it the
grandeur of the rock, the precipice, and the waterfall; but all around and below, the sides
are clothed with the exquisite verdure of the southern clime, the palm, the bread-fruit, the
yam, and all that can delight the eye; and both this and a little satellite islet are fenced
in by an encircling coral reef, within which is clear still deep water, fit for navies to ride
in, and approachable through numerous inlets in its natural breakwater.  It was a spot of much
distinction, containing the temple of the god Oro, who was revered by all the surrounding groups,
as the god of war, to whom children were dedicated to make them courageous.  There dreadful
human sacrifices were offered, concluded by cannibal feasts.  Whenever such a sacrifice was
required, the priest and king despatched messengers to the chiefs of the districts around to
inquire whether they had a broken calabash, or a rotten cocoa-nut.  These terms indicated a
man whom they would be willing to give up.  The victim was then either knocked down with a
blow of a small stone at the back of his head, or else speared in his own house; and when one
man of a family had thus been sacrificed, all the rest had the same horrid preference.

The last human victim of Tahiti was verily a martyr.  He was designated because he had begun
to pray.  The emissaries came to his house and asked his wife where he was.  Then, borrowing
from her the ironwood stick used for breaking open cocoa-nuts, they went after him, and knocked
him down with it, binding him hand and foot, and placing him in a long basket made of cocoa-nut
leaves.  His wife rushed forward, but was kept away, as the touch or breath of a woman is considered
to pollute a sacrifice.  The man, however, recovered the blow, and spoke out boldly: "Friends,
I know what you intend to do with me.  You are about to kill me, and offer me up as a tabae
to your savage gods.  I know it is vain for me to beg for mercy, for you will not spare my
life.  You may kill my body, but you cannot hurt my soul, for I have begun to pray to JESUS."

On hearing this, his bearers set him on the ground, put one stone under his head, and beat
out his brains with another, and thus died the last Tahitian sacrifice, truly baptized in his
own blood.  The other gods besides Oro were numerous, and there were also many animals supposed
to be possessed with familiar spirits.  A chief was once in the cabin of a ship where there
was a talking cockatoo: the moment the bird spoke he rushed away in the utmost terror, leapt
overboard, and swam for his life, convinced that he had heard the captain's demon.

The chief of Raiatea was named Tamatoa, and was a man of considerable power.  Two years previously
the Tahitian king, Pomare, nineteen of his subjects, and a missionary named Wilson had been
driven thither in a canoe by stress of weather; and what Tamatoa had heard from them had so
impressed him that he had persuaded his people to build a place of worship, observe the Sunday,
and meet to repeat together the scant lessons they had been able to receive during the visit
of the Tahitians. This led to a resolve to entreat for the presence of a missionary among them;
and the chieftain himself came to Huahime to make the request. Williams longed to go, but,
as the youngest minister, waited till all the rest had decided to the contrary, and then gladly
accepted his lot to go with Tamatoa.  There was a joyous welcome, and a feast was brought,
consisting of five pigs for Mr. Williams, five for his wife, and five for their baby-boy; besides
crates of yams, bananas, and cocoa-nuts, which, however, they were not required to eat themselves,
only to see eaten in their house.

The islanders were ready to give up their idols and call themselves Christians, to hear Mr.
Williams preach, and to observe the Sabbath; being, in fact, like the Red Indians of Eliot's
experience, so idle that a day of no work made no difference to them.  Their indolence, the
effect of their enervating climate, was well-nigh invincible; they preferred hunger to trouble,
and withal their customs were abhorrent to Christian morality.  Most islets of the South Seas
have much the same experience. The people, taken on their best side, show themselves gentle
and intelligent, and their chiefs are dignified gentlemen; but there is a horrible background
of ferocity and barbarism--often cannibalism.  It generally proves comparatively easy to obtain
a recognition of Christianity, and the cruelty and violence are usually laid aside; but to
bring purity and morality to bear upon these races is a much more difficult thing, and the
apparent failures have been at once the grief and reproach of missionaries, while those who
assail them with scoffs forget the difficulty of dealing with the inveterate customs of a whole
people, in a luxurious climate, and with little or no inducement to such industrial occupations
or refinements of mind, as are the best auxiliaries of religion in raising the tone.

Lands where cold is unknown, and where fruit grows as freely as in Paradise, offer no inducement
to labour; and the missionaries, striving in vain to lead the people to think occupation a
duty, were deserted as being troublesome when they bade them to work.  A school which the Williams's
set up was more popular; the Polynesians had no lack of brains, and reading and writing were
pleasanter than digging and building, or carrying logs.

Thinking that examples of the civilization that the islanders had never seen would do more
for their advance than anything else, Mr. Williams, with such assistance as he could obtain
from the natives, built himself a house with eight rooms, sash windows with Venetian blinds,
a verandah, and a most beautiful garden, and filled it with polished furniture, made by his
own clever mechanical hands.  With the assistance of one or two other missionaries who joined
him, he succeeded in thus exciting a certain emulation among the natives.  The king had a house
built for him like that of the white men, others followed, and thus a very important step was
made out of the degraded customs encouraged by the old oval huts.  The coral, made into lime,
afforded excellent material for plaster, and trades began to be fostered among the natives;
they became carpenters, blacksmiths, plasterers, boat-builders, and acquired some ideas of
agriculture.  By the end of the second year, the chapel and school stood in the midst of white
cottages; the population still wore clothing made of their own bark cloth, but in imitation
of that of their teachers, and the open savagery of the island was gone.  The congregation
assembled three times on Sunday, and there was family prayer in almost every house.  Cannibalism
was ended, and so was infanticide, one of the most terrible customs of the island, for there
was scarcely a woman above thirty who had not put to death several of her infants.  Much had
been done, although the good man to whom so much was owing did not feel satisfied that the
profession in many cases was thoroughly deep, and he still knew of many an inveterate evil,
that only time, discipline, and above all heartfelt religion, could uproot.

A large chapel, built with all the taste and ornament that he could achieve, was erected, the
sides wattled, the roof supported by pillars of tree-trunks, and the floors and pews, the pulpit
and desk, which were all to which the young ironmonger at the Tabernacle attached the notion
of a worthy place of worship, were solid and well finished.  He even fashioned some chandeliers
for evening service, and these so astonished the Raiateans, that on first entering the chapel,
they broke out into a cry of amaze, "Oh, Britannia!  Britannia!" and gave the name to England
of "the land whose customs were without end."

The opening of this chapel was one great step in Mr. Williams's work; the next was the inducing
Tamatoa and the other chiefs to bind themselves to govern by a code of Christian laws, not
complex, but based on the Ten Commandments, and agreeing with those newly established by Pomare
in Tahiti, but with this difference, that Williams ventured to introduce trial by jury, in
the hope that it would tend to qualify the despotic power of the chiefs.  Tamatoa's brother,
Pahi, was appointed judge, and the community was arranged on a Christian basis.  The congregation
was likewise put under regular discipline after the example of the Independents in England,
with ruling pastors and elders appointed from among the people; and an auxiliary Missionary
Society was formed for assisting in the conversion of the other isles.

Just as this was thoroughly arranged, in about the fourth year of his mission, Williams suffered
from a malady which seemed to him and his companion, Mr. Threlkeld, to necessitate his return
home.  The information was received by the islanders with something like despair. Old King
Tamatoa came to him and said, "Viriamu, I have been thinking you are a strange man.  JESUS
did not take care of His body.  He did not even shrink from death, and now you are afflicted
you are going to leave us."

Prayer was offered all over the island, and in the midst of all the preparations for departure
the disease began to ameliorate, and Mr. Williams recovered for a time, though the next year
a recurrence of the attack made him resolve upon a visit to Sydney, not only for the sake of
advice, but in the hope of establishing a market for the produce of the Society Isles, which
might give a motive to the industry he was so anxious to promote, and likewise to obtain a
vessel to be used for the missions.

Two Raiatean teachers instructed by him were landed at the island of Aitutake on the way, after
the chiefs had pledged themselves to support and protect them, and the voyage was continued
to Australia, where there was as usual a warm reception from Mr. Marsden.  It was a very important
visit.  Parts of the Holy Scriptures, catechisms, and spelling-books, were printed; the ship,
with the assistance of the Society of which Marsden was agent, was purchased, a schooner of
ninety tons, and named Te Matama, the Beginner; a person named Scott secured, at 150l. per
annum, to instruct the natives in the cultivation of sugar and tobacco, and stores laid in
of presents for the natives, clothes for the women, shoes, stockings, tea-kettles, tea-cups,
saucers, and tea.  The natives had a great liking for tea, and as they could not cherish cups
and saucers without shelves to put them on, all this was an indirect mode of introducing European
comforts and decencies.  As to shoes, there can be no spade husbandry with an unshod foot,
and thus the system of hoeing- women doing all the labour was attacked.

On the way back to Raiatea, Mr. Williams visited New Zealand, but not at a favourable moment,
for the chiefs were at war, and he had to hurry away.  The cargo was gladly welcomed at Raiatea,
and the desire to purchase European dress was found a great incentive to industry.

