We used sometimes to see a village or a house three or four miles off, and count upon reaching
it in half an hour. But a few steps further on there would be a barranca, invisible till we
came close to it, perhaps not more than a few hundred feet wide, so that it was easy to talk
to people on the other bank. But the bottom of the chasm might be five hundred or a thousand
feet below us; and the only way to cross was to ride along the bank, often for miles, until
we reached a place where it had been possible to make a steep bridle-path zigzagging down to
the stream below, and up again on the other side. It is only here and there that even such
paths can be made, for the walls of rock are generally too steep even for any vegetation, except
grass and climbing plants in the crevices. Our half-hour's ride, as we supposed it would be,
would often extend to two or three hours, for on these slopes two or three barrancas--large
and small---have sometimes to be crossed within as many miles.

If our journey had been even slower and more difficult, we should not have regretted it; the
country through which we were riding was so beautiful. There were but few inhabitants, and
the landscape was much as nature had left it. The great volcano of Orizaba came into view now
and then with its snowy cone,[23] mountain-streams came rushing along the ravines, and the
forests of oaks were covered with innumerable species of orchids and creepers, breaking down
the branches with their weight. Many kinds were already in flower, and their great blossoms
of white, purple, blue, and yellow, stood out against the dark green of the oak-leaves. Wherever
a mountain-stream ran down some shady little valley, there were tree-ferns thirty feet high,
with the new fronds forming a tuft at the top of the old scarred trunk. Round the Indian cottages
were cactuses with splendid crimson flowers, daturas with brilliant white blossoms, palm- and
fruit-trees of fifty kinds. We stopped at one of the cottages, and bought an armadillo that
had just been caught in the woods close by, while routing among his favourite ants' nests.
He was put into a palm-leaf basket, which held him all but the tip of his long taper tail,
which, like the rest of his body, was covered with rings of armour fitting beautifully into
one another. One of our men carried him thus in his arms to Jalapa.

The Mexicans call an armadillo "ayotochtli," that is, "tortoise-rabbit," a name which will
be appreciated by any one who knows the appearance of the little animal.

The villages and towns we passed were dismal places enough, and the population scanty; but
that this had not always been the case was evident from the numerous remains of ancient Indian
mound-forts or temples which we passed on our road, indicating the existence of large towns
at some former period. There is a drawing in Lord Kingsborough's work of a teocalli or pyramid
at San Andrés Chalchicomula, which we seem to have missed on account of the darkness having
come on before we reached the town. We were several times deceived that evening by the fireflies,
which we took for lights moving about in some village just ahead of us; and we became so incredulous
at last that we would not believe we had reached our journey's end until we could made out
the dim outlines of the houses. At the inn at San Andrés we found that we could have no rooms,
as all the little windowless dens were occupied by people from the country who had come in
for a fiesta. There were indeed a good many men loafing about the courtyard, but scarcely any
women, and we could hardly understand a fandango happening without them. They thought otherwise,
however; and presently, hearing the tinkling of a guitar, we went out and saw two great fellows
in broad hats, jackets, and serapes, solemnly dancing opposite to one another; while more men
looked on, smoking cigarettes, and an old fellow with a face like a baboon was squatting in
one corner and producing the music we had heard. To do them justice, I must say that we found,
on further enquiry, they had not come from their respective ranchos merely to make fools of
themselves in this way, but that there was to be some horsefair in the neighbourhood next day,
and they were going there.

Our not being able to get any supper but eggs and bread, and having to sleep on the supper-table
afterwards, confirmed us in the theory we were beginning to adopt, that nature and mankind
vary in an inverse ratio; and we were off at daybreak, delighted to get into the forest again.
We rode over hill and dale for four or five hours, and then along the edge of a barranca for
the rest of the day. This was one of the grandest chasms we had ever seen, even in Mexico.
It was four or five miles wide, and two or three thousand feet deep, and its floor was a mass
of tropical verdure, with here and there an Indian rancho and a patch of cultivated ground
on the bank of the rapid river, whose sound we heard when we approached the edge of the barranca.
There were more orchids and epidendrites than ever in the forest. In some places they had killed
every third tree, by forming so and close a covering over its branches as to destroy its life;
they were flourishing unimpaired on the rotting branches of trees which they had brought down
to the ground years before. The rainy season had not yet set in in this part of the country;
and, though we could hear the rushing of the torrent below, we looked in vain for water in
the forest, until our man Martin showed us the bromelias in the forks of the branches, in the
inside of whose hollow leaves nature has laid up a supply of water for the thirsty traveller.

We loaded our horses with the bulbs of such orchids as were still in the dry state, and would
travel safely to Europe. Sometimes we climbed into the trees for promising specimens, but oftener
contented ourselves with tearing them from the branches as we rode below. When saddle-bags
and pockets were full, we were for a time at fault, for there seemed no place for new treasures,
when suddenly I remembered a pair of old trousers. We tied up the ends of the legs, which we
filled with orchids; and the garment travelled to Jalapa sitting in its natural position across
my saddle, to the amazement of such Mexican society as we met. The contents of the two pendant
legs are now producing splendid flowers in several English hothouses.

By evening we reached the Junta, a place where the great ravine was joined by a smaller one,
and a long slanting descent brought us to the edge of the river. There was a ferry here, consisting
of a raft of logs which the Indian ferryman hauled across along a stout rope. The horses were
attached to the raft by their halters, and so swam across. On the point of land between the
two rivers the Indians had their huts, and there we spent the night. We chose the fattest guajalote
of the turkey-pen, and in ten minutes he was simmering in the great earthen pot over the fire,
having been cut into many pieces for convenience of cooking, and the women were busy grinding
Indian corn to be patted out into tortillas. While supper was getting ready, and Mr. Christy's
day's collection of plants was being pressed (the country we had been passing through is so
rich that the new specimens gathered that day filled several quires of paper), we had a good
deal of talk with the brown people, who could all speak a little Spanish. Some years before,
the two old people had settled there, and set up the ferry. Besides this, they made nets and
caught much fish in the river, and cultivated the little piece of ground which formed the point
of the promontory. While their descendants went no further than grandchildren the colony had
done very well; but now great-grandchildren had begun to arrive, and they would soon have to
divide, and form a settlement up in the woods across the river, or upon some patch of ground
at the bottom of one of the barrancas.

We were interested in studying the home-life of these people, so different from what we are
accustomed to among our peasants of Northern Europe, whose hard continuous labour is quite
unknown here. For the men, an occasional pull at the balsas (the rafts of the ferry), a little
fishing, and now and then--when they are in the humour for it-- a little digging in the garden-ground
with a wooden spade, or dibbling with a pointed stick. The women have a harder life of it,
with the eternal grinding and cooking, cotton-spinning, mat-weaving, and tending of the crowds
of babies. Still it is an easy lazy life, without much trouble for to-day or care for to-morrow.
When the simple occupations of the day are finished, the time does not seem to hang heavy upon
their hands. The men lie about, "thinking of nothing at all;" and the women--old and young--gossip
by the hour, in obedience to that beneficent law of nature which provides that their talk shall
increase inversely in proportion to what they have to talk about. We find this law attaining
to its most complete fulfilment when they shut themselves up in nunneries, to escape as much
as possible from all sources of worldly interest, and gossip there more industriously than
anywhere else, as we are informed on very good authority.

Like all the other Mexican Indians whose houses we visited, the people here showed but little
taste in adorning their dwellings, their dresses and their household implements. Beyond a few
calabashes scraped smooth and ornamented with coloured devices, and the blue patterns on the
women's cotton skirts, there was scarcely anything to be seen in the way of ornament. How great
was the skill of the Mexicans in ornamental work at the time of the Conquest, we can tell from
the carved work in wood and stone preserved in museums, the graceful designs on the pottery,
the tapestry, and the beautiful feather-work; but this taste has almost disappeared in the
country. Just in the same way, contact with Europeans has almost destroyed the little decorative
arts among most barbarous people, as, for example, the Red Indians and the natives of the Pacific
Islands; and what little skill in these things is left among them is employed less for themselves
than in making curious trifles for the white people, and even in these we find that European
patterns have mixed with the old designs, or totally superseded them.

