In the foregoing lectures I have tried to show that there is a real difference between elementary
species and varieties. The first are of equal rank, and together constitute the collective
or systematic species. The latter are usually derived from real and still existing types. Elementary
species are in a sense independent of each other, while varieties are of a derivative nature.

Furthermore I have tried to show that the ways in which elementary or minor species must have
originated from their common ancestor must be quite different from the mode of origin of the
varieties. We have assumed that the first come into existence by the production of something
new, by the acquirement of a character hitherto unnoticed in the line of their ancestors. On
the contrary, varieties, in most cases, evidently owe their origin to the loss of an already
existing character, or in other less frequent cases, to the re-assumption of a quality [248]
formerly lost. Some may originate in a negative, others in a positive manner, but in both cases
nothing really new is acquired.

This distinction holds good for all cases in which the relationship between the forms in question
is well known. It seems entirely justifiable therefore to apply it also to cases in which the
systematic affinity is doubtful, as well as to instances in which it is impossible to arrive
at any taxonomic conclusions. The extreme application of the principle would no doubt disturb
the limits between many species and varieties as now recognized. It is not to be forgotten
however that all taxonomic distinctions, which have not been confirmed by physiologic tests
are only provisional, a view acknowledged by the best systematists. Of course the description
of newly discovered forms can not await the results of physiologic inquiries; but it is absolutely
impossible to reach definite conclusions on purely morphologic evidence. This is well illustrated
by the numerous discords of opinion of different authors on the systematic worth of many forms.

Assuming the above mentioned principle as established, and disregarding doubtful cases as indicated,
the term progressive evolution is used to designate the method in which elementary species
must have originated. It is the [249] manner in which all advance in the animal and vegetable
kingdoms must have taken place, continuously adding new characters to the already existing
number. Contrasted with this method of growing differentiation, are the retrogressive modifications,
which simply retrace a step, and the degressive changes in which a backward step is retraced
and old characters revived. No doubt both of these methods have been operative on a large scale,
but they are evidently not in the line of general advancement.

In all of these directions we see that the differentiating marks show more or less clearly
that they are built up of units. Allied forms are separated from each other without intermediates.
Transitions are wholly wanting, although fallaciously apparent in some instances owing to the
wide range of fluctuating variability of the forms concerned, or to the occurrence of hybrids
and subvarieties.

These physiologic units, which in the end must be the basis for the distinction of the systematic
units, may best be designated by the term of "unit-characters." Their internal nature is as
yet unknown to us, and we will not now look into the theories, which have been propounded as
to the probable material basis underlying them. For our present purpose the empirical evidence
of the general occurrence of [250] sharp limits between nearly related characters must suffice.
As Bateson has put it, species are discontinuous, and we must assume that their characters
are discontinuous also.

Moreover there is as yet no reason for trying to make a complete analysis of all the characters
of a plant. No doubt, if attained, such an analysis would give us a deep insight into the real
internal construction of the intricate properties of organisms in general. But taxonomic studies
in this direction are only in their infancy and do not give us the material required for such
an analysis. Quite on the contrary, they compel us to confine our study to the most recently
acquired, or youngest characters, which constitute the differentiating marks between nearly
allied forms.

Obviously this is especially the case in the realm of the hybrids, since only nearly related
forms are able to give hybrid offspring. In dealing with this subject we must leave aside all
questions concerning more remote relationships.

It is not my purpose to treat of the doctrine of hybridization at any length. Experience is
so rapidly increasing both in a practical and in a purely scientific direction that it would
take an entire volume to give only a brief survey of the facts and of all the proposed theories.

[251] For our present purposes we are to deal with hybrids only in so far as they afford the
means of a still better distinction between elementary species and varieties. I will try to
show that these two contrasting groups behave in quite a different manner, when subjected to
crossing experiments, and that the hope is justified that some day crosses may become the means
of deciding in any given instance, what is to be called a species, and what a variety, on physiologic
grounds. It is readily granted that the labor required for such experiments, is perhaps too
great for the results to be attained, but then it may be possible to deduce rules from a small
series of experiments, which may lead us to a decision in wider ranges of cases.

To reach such a point of view it is necessary to compare the evidence given by hybrids, with
the conclusions already attained by the comparison of the differentiating characteristics of
allied forms.

On this ground we first have to inquire what may be expected respecting the internal nature
and the outcome of the process of crossing in the various cases cited in our former discussion.

We must always distinguish the qualities, which are the same in both parents, from those that
constitute the differentiating marks in every single cross. In respect to the first [252] group
the cross is not at all distinguished from a normal fertilization, and ordinarily these characters
are simply left out of consideration. In war, every one would admit the righteousness of his sentence.
I also say, has attempted, for whatever reasons, to seize the power, and I recognize no difference
whether such attempt should be followed to public loss or public
gain.

I say they, has try, for if penalty were not to overtake him till he had succeeded, it would frequently
come too late, the sovereign rights would have been acquired or transferred
already. Whatever be his reason for acting, the crime treason, and
he is rightly reprobate.

We may take the crosses between elementary species of the same or of very narrowly allied systematic
species on the one side, and on the other, limit treatment to the crossing of varieties with
the species, from which they are supposed to have sprung by a retrograde modification. Crosses
of different varieties of the same species with one another obviously constitute a derivative
case, and should only be discussed secondarily. And crosses of varieties with positive or depressive
characters have as yet so rarely been made that we may well disregard them.

Elementary species differ from their nearest allies by progressive changes, that is by the
acquirement [253] of some new character. The derivative species has one unit more than the
parent. All other qualities are the same as in the parent. Whenever such a derivative is combined
with its parent the result for these qualities will be exactly as in a normal fertilization.
In such ordinary cases it is obvious that each character of the pollen-parent is combined with
the same character of the pistil-parent. There may be slight individual differences, but each
unit character will become opposed to, and united with, the same unit-character in the other
parent. In the offspring the units will thus be paired, each pair consisting of two equivalent
units. As to their character the units of each single pair are the same, only they may exhibit
slight differences as to the degree of development of this character.

Now we may apply this conception to the sexual combination of two different elementary species,
assuming one to be the derivative of the other. The differentiating mark is only present in
one of the parents and wanting in the other. While all other units are paired in the hybrid,
this one is not. It meets with no mate, and must therefore remain unpaired. The hybrid of two
such elementary species is in some way incomplete and unnatural. In the ordinary course of
things all individuals derive [254] their qualities from both parents; for each single mark
they possess at least two units. Practically but not absolutely equal, these two opponents
always work together and give to the offspring a likeness to both parents. No unpaired qualities
occur in normal offspring; these constitute the essential features of the hybrids of species
and are at the same time the cause of their wide deviations from the ordinary rules.

Turning now to the varieties, we likewise need discuss their differentiating marks only. In
the negative types, these consist of the apparent loss of some quality which was active in
the species. But it was pointed out in our last lecture that such a change is an apparent loss.
On a closer inquiry we are led to the assumption of a latent or dormant state. The presumably
lost characters have not absolutely, or at least not permanently disappeared. They show their
presence by some slight indication of the quality they represent, or by occasional reversions.
They are not wanting, but only latent.

Basing our discussion concerning the process of crossing on this conception, and still limiting
the discussion to one differentiating mark, we come to the inference, that this mark is present
and active in the species, and present but dormant in the variety. Thus it is present in both,
and as all other characters not differentiating [255] find their mates in the cross, so these
two will also meet one another. They will unite just as well as though they were both active
or both dormant. For essentially they are the same, only differing in their degree of activity.
From this we can infer, that in the crossing of varieties, no unpaired remainder is left, all
units combining in pairs exactly as in ordinary fertilization.

Setting aside the contrast between activity and latency in this single pair, the procedure
in the inter-crossing of varieties is the same as in ordinary normal fertilization.

Summarizing this discussion we may conclude that in normal fertilization and in the inter-crossing
of varieties all characters are paired, while in crosses between elementary species the differentiating
marks are not mated.

In order to distinguish these two great types of fertilization we will use the term bisexual
for the one and unisexual for the other. The term balanced crosses then conveys the idea of
complete bisexuality, all unit-characters combining in pairs. Unbalanced crosses are those
in which one or more units do not find their mates and therefore remain unpaired. And thus each single
citizen or subject has the less right, the more the commonwealth exceeds him but power, and each
citizen consequently does and has nothing of what he may in the
specific decree by the commonwealth defend. In this way it may become intermediate between them, having some characters
in common with the pollen-parent and others with the pistil-parent. As far as these characters
do not interfere with each other, they may be fully developed side by side, and in the main
this is the way in which hybrid characters are evolved. But in most cases our existing knowledge
of the units is far too slender to give a complete analysis, even of these distinguishing marks
alone. We recognize the parental marks more or less clearly, but are not prepared for exact
delimitations. Leaving these theoretical considerations, we will pass to the description of
some illustrative examples.

In the first place I will describe a hybrid between two species of Oenothera, which I made
some years ago. The parents were the common evening-primrose or Oenothera biennis and of its
small-flowered congener, Oenothera muricata. These two forms were distinguished by Linnaeus
as different species, but have been considered by subsequent writers as elementary species
or so-called systematic varieties of one species designated with the name of the presumably
older type, the O. biennis. Varietal differences in a physiologic sense they [257] do not possess,
and for this reason afford a pure instance of unbalanced union, though differing in more than
one point.

I have made reciprocal crosses, taking at one time the small-flowered and at the other the
common species as pistillate parent. These crosses do not lead to the same hybrid as is ordinarily
observed in analogous cases; quite on the contrary, the two types are different in most features,
both resembling the pollen-parent far more than the pistil-parent. The same curious result
was reached in sundry other reciprocal crosses between species of this genus. But I will limit
myself here to one of the two hybrids.

In the summer of 1895 I castrated some flowers of O. muricata, and pollinated them with O.
biennis, surrounding the flowers with paper bags so as to exclude the visits of insects. I
sowed the seeds in 1896 and the hybrids were biennial and flowered abundantly the next year
and were artificially fertilized with their own pollen, but gave only a very small harvest.
Many capsules failed, and the remaining contained only some few ripe seeds.

From these I had in the following year the second hybrid generation, and in the same way I
cultivated also the third and fourth. These were as imperfectly fertile as the first, and in
[258] some years did not give any seed at all, so that the operation had to be repeated in
order to continue the experiment. Last summer (1903) I had a nice lot of some 25 biennial specimens
blooming abundantly. All in all I have grown some 500 hybrids, and of these about 150 specimens
flowered.

These plants were all of the same type, resembling in most points the pollen-parent, and in
some others the pistil-parent of the original cross. The most obvious characteristic marks
are afforded by the flowers, which in O. muricata are not half so large as in biennis, though
borne by a calyx-tube of the same length. In this respect the hybrid is like the biennis bearing
the larger flowers. These may at times seem to deviate a little in the direction of the other
parent, being somewhat smaller and of a slightly paler color. But it is very difficult to distinguish
between them, and if biennis and hybrid flowers were separated from the plants and thrown together,
it is very doubtful whether one would succeed in separating them.

