The Reformation having been conducted by theologians, it was natural that disproportionate
importance should have been attached to theological niceties.  So far as Luther was right in
regarding the doctrine of justification by faith only as the great article at issue, it must
have been, because the opposite doctrine favored the conceit of a mysterious mediating power
vested in a priesthood--a conceit so favorable to the aggrandizement of the order thus distinguished.
But considered as a politic movement--as an advance in rightly adjusting the social relations--the
Reformation aimed principally at that ill arrangement, by which the authorized expounders of
the law divine found their account, in involving that law in a glorious uncertainty, and entrapping
people in a frequent violation thereof.  Considered as a politic institution, Protestantism
differs essentially from Popery, in that it makes more of prevention than of remedy; gives
the ministry its best flourish, in the best welfare of the whole body; and pays for spiritual
health, rather than for spiritual sickness.  If all Protestants do not consistently so, the
fact accords with the dim understanding, on both sides, of the essential points contested.

This dim understanding further appears, in that after all the political discussion which has
been, the success of republican institutions is still appealed to, as vindicating the reign
of justice and benevolence in the public mind; mankind have within so much of the divine, are
so self-disposed to do right, that they do not need much control, but may pretty safely be
left to their own guidance.  Nor is it left to the mere demagogue to talk thus.

Doubtful it may be, whether it should be called dimness of understanding, or rather perverse
ingenuity, that men reason thus, when the facts are: So general is the disposition to abuse
power, that wherever it is accumulated, it will surely be abused; accordingly it must be distributed
as equally as possible.  If government be made the business of one part of the community--one
tenth, or one hundredth, or one thousandth--that part will inevitably exalt self, at the cost
of the others.  So strong is self-love, turned towards temporal interests, so acute to discern
what tends to the one desired end, and so sure to bend every thing that way, that men's temporal
interests are pretty safe in their own hands, and safe no where else.  Now the legitimate end
of civil government being, to secure the temporal welfare of all, all must have a share in
it, or the excluded portions must find their rights neglected.

It may have favored the common mistake, that the leaders in successful republican movements
have so often shown a heroic self-devotion and disinterestedness--men like Luther, and Washington.
But these are the exceptions, the rare gems of humanity.  If they were the fair specimens,
their work would never have been needed.  Then we might leave to a class the regulation, whether
of our spirituals or temporals, with the like advantage, that we leave the making of our watches
or our shoes to their respective trades.  But the indistinct apprehension, why the advantages
of the division of labor fail in the matter of government, accords well with the observation,
that republican principles make slow progress in the world, are held in gross inconsistencies;
and the most zealous assertors thereof in one department, are oft found most strenuously opposed
in others.

It is thus that we are so slow to conform to one rule, our arrangements for spiritual instruction;
for preserving health; for preventing crime; for cheaply, expeditiously, and satisfactorily
settling disputed claims; for furnishing the whole people with instruction in their rights,
interests, and duties; as well as that thorough cultivation of the whole man, which the full
success of republicanism requires.

Part III.

Welfare as Dependent on Philosophy.

But the whole office of Policy, in arranging the social relations, supposes the prevalence
of an ill-informed and misdirected self-love. And, accordingly, the second way of attempting
the promotion of general welfare is, to convey and impress just estimates of its constituents.
Such is the office of Philosophy: the study of the truly wise man-wise for the present life--still
leaving out man's hold on a future, and his relations to his Maker.  What would such an one
pursue; as life's chief ends--covet, as life's best goods?

We still suppose self-love to be as really as ever the main-spring to human conduct; but that
self-love enlightened, regulated, refine-- choosing first the goods which satisfy the nobler
parts of man's nature, and on a liberal estimate of the ties which bind society together; in
virtue of which, if one member suffer, all the members suffer with it.

The items, claiming to constitute life's happiness, may be divided into two classes, distinguished
by this important difference: one class essentially such, that only a limited number of mankind
can obtain them;--if some succeed in the pursuit, their success involves the failure of others:
The other class are such, as to involve no contradiction in the supposition of their becoming
the common property of all.  The success of a part, far from obstructing, rather facilitates
the success of others; they constitute a store of wealth, from which each may take his fill;
and the more he takes, the more he leaves, to satisfy the desires of all who come after.

Now, in view of the case, Philosophy inquiring for life's chief goods, cannot make them to
be fortune's prizes, scattered to tempt the cupidity of all; but which a few only can catch,
while their luck proves the disappointment and vexation of the many.  The supposition were
monstrous.  We so instinctively recoil from supposing such to be the appointment of nature's
Author, and so consciously grasp it for a truth clear by its own light--the conviction of a
provision fully made in nature for all, whenever nature's wants are truly consulted--that we
may safely reject, by this test, every notion of temporal good, which makes it consist preeminently
in whatever, by the nature of the case, can be the lot of but a limited number.

Eminent above all other conceptions of temporal good, is that which makes it to consist emphatically
in the possession of money, or the ability to command it by its equivalents.  And because the
capacities of enjoyment have never been measured, nor material wealth rationally estimated
as a means of meeting those capacities, riches are prized, not as a means, but an end; and
becoming themselves the end, no amount of possession lessens the desire to accumulate.

A just philosophy argues on the case, that all cannot be rich, in the common acceptation of
the term, whether be considered the limits to earth's productiveness, and the possibility of
increasing material wealth; or whether, rich being more a relative than an absolute term, that
the supposition of all rich is self-contradictory: therefore, in a juster sense, the supposition
of all rich must be admissible;--the sense, namely, that whenever riches shall be reasonably
estimated simply as the means of meeting capacities of enjoyment surveyed and known, then it
will be found that the earth's productiveness, and the stock of material wealth, admit each
to take to the fullness of his wants, leaving enough for all who come after.

It is further the office of Philosophy to show in detail, what is thus wrought out as a conclusion
from general principles; to show how much is consumed by artificial wants, and subjection to
the tyranny of fashion; to show how the correction of factitious desires would leave natural
and rational desires for better enjoyment than is now found, so that self-love would find not
occasion for envy, or repining at a brother's prosperity.

The unceasing desire to become richer would be, however, but a mitigated evil, if men sought
only wealth by production.  The aggravation of the case is, that they whom the desire most
impels, seek the increase of their own store, not by producing, but by contriving to turn to
their own stock the avails of the industry of others.  Our young men, in deplorable numbers,
slide into the persuasion, that any means of living and thriving are better than productive
industry. Hence the rush into trade, the professions, into speculations, where the hazards
are such, that the cool calculations of pure avarice would rather incline a man to prefer the
prospect of growing rich by digging the earth.  So much the preference of contrivance to labor
overmaster the mastering desire to become rich.

But there is a strange hankering after whatever is of the nature of a lottery.  So the prizes
are but splendid, no matter, if they are but few compared with the blanks.  We are given to
presuming each on his own good fortune.  "Nothing venture, nothing have," has become a proverb.
So agriculture is treated as if it had no rewards, because one ventures so little by engaging
therein.  And one might almost think that the conscious earth resented the indignity.

Aided by Philosophy, we shall argue on this matter thus: All cannot live by their wits; the
many must produce with the hands; and, the greater the part who shuffle off the charge, the
more heavily it falls on others.  The first law given to man in innocency, was, to keep the
garden and till it; the first after the loss of innocency, "In the sweat of thy face thou shalt
eat bread;"--so a dispensation from such law, given by Him, who best knows what is good for
man, in whatever state, is not worthy to stand high among life's blessings.

More particularly we are taught in the same school, that the good thus contemplated must cost
something at least on the score of that best of physical enjoyments--health.  If it were duly
appreciated, how high this stands among life's goods, and how much its perfection depends on
freedom to the mind from the anxieties of hazardous speculation, and a goodly amount of manly
labor, of which the varied occupations of agriculture are the most favorable of all; this consideration
would check the prevalent ambition to make the contrivance of the brain supply the place of
the labor of the hands.

Health is commended to us, not only as among the first of present goods, but as one, the security
of which is placed very much in our own power; if we will but study and practise the means.
It is remarkable, that, while the healing art is proverbial for its sects and uncertainties--amid
the disputes of homoeopaths and allopaths, mineralists and herbalists, stimulators and depletors--there
is a pretty general agreement of parties on the laws of hygiene, or the art of preserving health.
We might find here a law, taught by the constitution of nature, that its Author never intended
healing to hold an important place in the cause of human welfare.  He meant it should be well
nigh dispensed with, by the obedience men should pay to laws, which they may understand.

The full appreciation of these considerations would tend greatly to establish friendly relations
in society; because, first, the good contemplated is such, that the success of one in seeking,
facilitates the success of all.  Secondly, it would abate the strife for luxuries,--amassing
without producing, and cultivating artificial wants,--most fertile sources of discord.  And,
thirdly, it would establish between physicians and their employers, relations the most agreeable.

Another most unmanageable misconception of life's good, makes one of its choicest items to
be, the possession of power and superiority. To what depths of degradation will man depress
his fellows, just to contemplate the distance between his might and their weakness!  If this
ambition seems less general than the desire of accumulating, or of substituting contrivance
for productiveness, it may be, because the necessity of the case more limits the number who
can bear rule; otherwise, the passion for power might find as ready an entrance to as many
hearts as are taken by the love of gain, or the dislike to labor. We may find in this thought
a partial explanation of the fact, that the thrift of the non-slaveholding States contrasted
with the stagnation at the South, is so powerless an argument addressed to the slaveholders
there; for you have not only to satisfy avarice of the superior profitableness of free labor;
you have still to contend with the lust of dominion--the passion for power and superiority.
To manage this passion is the heaviest charge of policy--to provide that the offices which
must be intrusted to human hands, be filled peaceably and worthily.

Philosophy explodes this notion of good (as claiming to be eminently such), in that it cannot
stand the general test: It is a good, which a few must share by detracting so much from the
happiness of others.

And further, to the love of power is submitted the consideration, that knowledge is power.
It may be feared, this maxim oft suggests scarce other sense, that that deeper insight into
the tricks of trade or politics enables the possessor to outwit competitors for riches or honors
in the game.  It is still a low understanding, that knowledge of nature's laws multiplies the
means of physical enjoyment.  Knowledge is power in a higher sense, in that it empowers the
possessor to call forth stores of enjoyment form objects, which seem to vulgar apprehension
most barren of utility.  But knowledge--taken for the round of mental cultivation--is power,
in that it is competent to yield to all more than the delightful sense of conscious superiority,
which vulgar ambition may afford to a few of its successful votaries; a store, from which each
in taking does but multiply the remainder.

But to find it so one must look well, that he apprehend knowledge to be a good of itself, independently
of the distinction it confers.  For a vain ambition often takes this direction; and then it
matters little to one whether himself advance, or others be kept back--since, in either case,
the difference between him and them, the distinction chiefly enjoyed, is the same.

Now, the love of knowledge is prior in time to the love of distinction; it should seem then,
that, with proper care, it might maintain the mastery over its rival.  The child is delighted
with the acquisition of new ideas, before it thinks of turning them to a vain-glorious account.
It deserves to be considered, whether our modes of education, offering prizes and honors of
scholarship, do not train into the ascendancy that love of distinction, which education ought
and might keep subordinate; which in fact is one of the greatest hinderances to progress;--for
when one's immediate aim is not truth itself, but the glory which attends the acquisition,
he meets a thousand sidelong impulses from the straightforward search.

That knowledge is a good which grows by being shared, is a truth more fully apprehended, as
the idea of knowledge is enlarged.  It is measurably so, while taken for eminence in common
studies and the received sciences.  One's advance is facilitated by the advance of others.

Much more does this hold, when the distinction between intellectual culture and intellectual
life is made, and the preference due to the latter apprehended.

When the missionary enterprize was a new thing, in favor of the missionary's being a married
man was argued the advantage of having children trained up in a Christian way before the eyes
of the heathen. But so completely has that expectation been disappointed, that now the missionaries
send home their children to be educated; alleging the danger, lest their children become stumbling
blocks, through the apparent little difference between them and the heathen children. And the
difficulty is not, that they cannot there, as well as here, be taught Latin, Greek, Mathematics--all
the received sciences-the branches of what is nominally education.  It is not so much, that
they cannot there be shielded from evil influences abroad; as that their children there want,
what our children enjoy--the sight of magnificent enterprises; a spirit of inquiry and freedom
breathing all around them; and the healthful contact and stimulus of multitudes of young minds,
in the like process of intellectual and moral training.  It is such nameless imperceptible
influences, that awaken intellectual life, from the mind, and determine the future man more
than the teaching, which is nominally education.  Why else does the acknowledged excellence
of the teaching in the Prussian schools do so little to quicken intellectual life--to form
men of progressive thoughts?

We should be repaid the whole cost of the missionary enterprize, were it only in the clearness
and importance of the lesson thus taught us, as otherwise we should hardly have suspected--the
doctrine of our mutual dependencies and tendencies to a common average--how our intellectual
life is subject to the law, "Whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it."

We may hence take instruction, first, in the matter of educating our children.  We have but
half done our duty as parents, when we have joined with such of our neighbors as better appreciate,
or readier furnish the means, of good instruction, to unite our children in a select school,
furnished with competent masters and ample apparatus. The children of one neighborhood educate
one another mainly.  They receive from one another more of those impressions which form the
mind and fix the after character, than all they get from their masters. The carefully trained
will receive a deleterious impression from the neglected portion, despite of care to ward off
evil influences.  Or, however successfully care may be applied, that is but negative success.
Our children still want the kindly stimulus to mental growth, to be realized in a whole community
of young minds, all sharing the like wise training.

We may hence take occasion, secondly, to mark (what is not so obvious), that through life the
same law binds us: the law, that our intellectual life depends more on the state of society
in which we exist, than on our direct efforts at self-culture.  Individual effort may give
one great preeminence before his associates in any of the acknowledged sciences, though even
in such their success facilitates his; and if he prizes the knowledge--the truth--for itself,
rather than for the attending glory, he will find in another's success, that, "whether one
member be honored, all the members rejoice with it."  But distinctively is it so, in regard
to the general progress of universal mind in justness of thought and sentiment--those new developed
master ideas which mark the place of each successive age in the line of progression; and in
regard to which, the masters in the received sciences are quite as often found lagging behind,
as going before.

In regard to this, we are all of us individually very like the several drops which compose
the mighty current of the Mississippi, moving with resistless force to its destination.  A
few may outstrip by a little the general progress of thought, and but a little; just as one
drop in the current may receive an impulse, carrying it a little in advance; or, if we might
suppose the drops gifted with intelligence, some by self-directed effort and seizing opportunities,
might speed themselves a little.  So study and determination will enable one to anticipate
by a little the birth of ideas.

And, on the other hand, the current of thought none can resist. Sometimes a man resolves to
be so conservative, as to stick fast by the old moorings--he is not going to yield to popular
impulses.  But it fares with him very much as it would with the single drop in the Mississippi,
which should resolve to stop in its place, and so reluct against impulses and take advantage
of all impediments. The result from day to day would be, not that it had stopped in its place,
or any thing like it; but that its daily approach to the ocean was a little less than that
of its fellows.

Thus we are brought round to the same position--that the attempt to monopolize Heaven's best
gifts to man, must be a very small affair-- that the individual best consults his own attainments
in knowledge, after the sublimest sense of the term, by consulting the progress of his neighbors
and the race; just as the single drop in the Mississippi sees its best hope of speedily reaching
the ocean, in whatever gives onward impulse to the whole current.

The thought receives force from the consideration, that here emphatically is that knowledge,
which he who increaseth beyond the average increase, increaseth sorrow.  A saying of so much
currency must have some foundation in reality.  And yet is not knowledge commended to us as
one of the richest sources of enjoyment?

      "Happy the mortal, who has traced effects
       To their first cause."

Where is the reconciling link between these seeming contradictions?

Now eminence in any of the received sciences, or branches of literature, has rich capabilities
of affording happiness.  To penetrate the depths of mathematics, chemistry, or astronomy--to
revel in the stores of ancient lore;--all such pursuits generally become more delightfully
attractive, the further one advances; or, after the ancient indefinite use of terms, knowledge
might be taken for the just proportionate training of all the faculties, in distinction from
the teaching, which impresses so many items of truth.  And such education preeminently fits
one to pass time happily.

The maxim in question then applies emphatically to the forethought, which anticipates the dawn
of ideas.* [Or, more generally, we might define, an accurate perception of the difference between
what is and what ought to be--between reality and ideal perfection.  Perhaps we might say,
insight into logical futurity.]  And although, as above said, none do greatly anticipate beyond
the general sense of the age, yet some may too much for their own comfort.

This thought Schiller finely sets forth in his Cassandra.  At the hour of her sister's nuptials,
while the rest give loose to merriment at the festival, the prophetess wanders forth alone,
complaining, that her insight into futurity debars her from participation in the common joy.

    "To all its arms doth mirth unfold,
          And every heart foregoes its cares,
     And hope is busy in the old;
          The bridal robe my sister wears,
     And I alone, alone am weeping;
          The sweet delusion mocks not me;
     Around these walls destruction sweeping,
          More near and near I see.

     A torch before my vision glows,
          But not in Hymen's hand it shines;
     A flame that to the welkin goes,
          But not from holy offering shrines:
     Glad hands the banquet are preparing,
          And near and near the halls of state,
     I hear the god that comes unsparing,
          I hear the steps of fate.

     And men my prophet wail deride!
          The solemn sorrow dies in scorn;
     And lonely in the waste I hide
          The tortured heart that would forewarn.
     And the happy, unregarded,
          Mocked by their fearful joy, I trod:
     Oh! dark to me the lot awarded,
          Thou evil Pythian god!

     Thine oracle in vain to be,
          Oh! wherefore am I thus consigned,
     With eyes that every truth must see,
          Lone in the city of the blind?
     Cursed with the anguish of a power
          To view the fates I may not thrall;
     The hovering tempest still must lower,
          The horror must befall.

     Boots it, the veil to lift, and give
          To sight the frowning fates beneath?
     For error is the life we live,
          And, oh, our knowledge is but death!
     Take back the clear and awful mirror,
          Shut from mine eyes the blood-red glare;
     Thy truth is but a gift of terror,
          When mortal lips declare.

     My blindness give to me once more,
          The gay, dim senses that rejoice;
     The past's delighted songs are o'er
          For lips that speak a prophet's voice.

     To me the future thou has granted;
            I miss the moment from the chain--
     The happy present hour enchanted!
          Take back thy gift again!"* [Bulwer's translation.]

These lines express more than the trite observation, that a knowledge of futurity would prove
a torment to the possessor.  Beneath that obvious is couched the deeper moral, which expresses
the sufferings of the philosophic prophet--of the man who, too much for his own quiet, anticipates
reasonings, conclusions, sentiments, forms of social life yet to prevail--the man to whom not
coming events, but coming ideas, cast their shadows before.  If we could suppose one at the
time of the crusades, educated to associate and sympathize with the choice spirits of the age,
yet anticipating the sense of their age, in making the comparative estimate of chivalrous adventure,
and successful cultivation of the arts of peace and industry; he must have felt somewhat like
Cassandra among the less gifted.  If we could look on life, as our successors will two hundred
years hence, we too might complain of being "lone in the city of the blind;" unless large Hope
and Benevolence enabled us to live on the future.  Thus we find additional motive to desiring
a united and absolute, rather than an individual and relative progress, in the consideration
that knowledge most worthily so called--whoso increaseth greatly beyond the average attainment,
doth so to his own sorrow.

To complete the list of false estimates of good, refuted by one test, we should allude to the
frivolities of gentility and fashion-the passion for wearing badges of distinction, however
impotent or unmeaning such may be.  This is the very poorest form of finding delight, in what
from the nature of the case can be shared by few. For its incommunicableness is its only recommendation.
It is an icy repellant, freezing up the kindly flow of sympathy with universal humanity; and
uncompensated loss of that best ingredient of earthly felicity--the interchange of friendly
feelings and offices; that store of wealth, from which the more that take, and the fuller their
share, the more they leave to be taken by others.

The foregoing may be treated as a fine and just speculation, but as what ever must remain a
barren speculation; as if it were after the example of all ages, that men should mistake the
material of happiness for happiness itself.  So it always has been, so it always will be, that
false notions of good usurp the place of the true, despite the demonstrations of moralists
and divines to the contrary.

Mind, however, has not stood still in this matter.  It has moved, and that in the right direction.
We may note a progress from age to age, in coming to a just estimate of life.  Start not at
the use of terms, rendered suspicious by the extravagancies of which they have been made the
vehicle.  But we must not reject ideas great, just, or new, because of the distortions and
caricatures of little minds.  If one idea occupies the mind all them more for being great and
just, it will be likely to overmaster that mind, so as not to be produced in its fair proportions,
or rightly applied.  So fare they, with whom the one idea is, the progress of society--the
growth of thought.  The Mississippi in its progress throws froth and scum on its surface, more
conspicuous than the under-running current.  So radical folly and transcendental nonsense is
obtruded on the sight, from the sympathy of little minds with the deeper current of thought.
To gauge the progress of mind from those who are most noisy on the matter, would be, like taking
the direction and rapidity of the Mississippi, from the froth, which the wind blows hither
and thither over its surface.

"Let us go on to perfection"--"Forgetting the things behind, and pressing onward to the things
before."  Such language describes distinctively the American character, and the spirit of Christianity.
Only, where is perfection?  What are the things before?  If, as a people, we do fully take
these expressions in their author's sense, we may hope there is one element of agreement, betokening
good for the future.

It is encouraging, that the two rival systems, most boldly promising to lead to perfection,
both had their birth under political and mental bondage.  So evidently with Romanism, whether
under its proper form and name, or refined and disguised after the modern fashion.  And the
same is true of the baptized infidelity imported from Germany.  The German mind is cramped
and diseased by the bands which confine it.  It is not allowed to speculate freely on politics,
and the many questions most nearly touching present interests.  Therefore, on the records and
on the doctrines which pertain to eternal interests, it falls with an insane avidity for innovation,
and runs into licentiousness a liberty no where else enjoyed.  Hence the levity, in dealing
with things sacred, in Germany often found in minds of the first and second orders, here is
taken up by those to the third and fourth--the copyists and imitators; nay, by the buffoons
who figure at the farces of mock philanthropy.  Now, though every folly must find minds whose
caliber it fits, we may hope the genuine American mind will not be extensively beguiled by
either of the misbegotten offspring of Europe's mental servitude.

But, to the point--progress made in estimating life.  A few centuries ago, a torrent of enthusiasm
set in the direction of bearing the cross into Asia, to fight for glory, and the propagation
of Christianity, on the fields of Palestine.  Already the old Roman military character was
greatly improved on.  Virtue, (manliness, a` vir-man) was no longer supposed to fulfil its
highest office in

      Parcere subjectis et debellare superbos.

A delicate sense of honor, of the courtesy due to a foe and the gallantry to the other sex,
betoken a type of humanity in advance of the brute ferocity of the best days of Rome.

But, notwithstanding Mr. Burke's eloquence, and the opinion sometimes expressed, that the courtly
knight of the middle age, realized the perfection of humanity; we have no reason to regret
that the age of chivalry is gone by, and that the age of speculation, and money-making, and
industrial enterprize has succeeded.  The materialism of this age, with all its faults, is
better than the chivalry of an age gone by. It tends to keep the world at peace; that tended
to perpetual turmoil.  The supposition all rich, according to modern ideas, is not so flat
a contradiction as the supposition all glorious, in military heroism.  As the past age estimated
life's supreme good, the enjoyment of a few required the exclusion of the many from its benefits:
as this age estimates the enjoyment of some, admits the exclusion of others.  Whether the mercantile
spirit thoroughly entered into makes a better man than did the spirit of chivalry, may be doubted;
not so, which best comports with the welfare of society.

Now if one, at the time of the crusades, had so anticipated the spirit of the age, as to picture
to himself modern Europe and America, manufacturing, trading, flocking to California, as if
there a holy sepulcher was to be rescued from hands profane, glorying chiefly in mechanical
development and mercantile enterprize; and had ventured to suggest, that instead of trooping
to Asia to fight for glory, and the fancy of promoting religion by arguments of steel, it would
be worthier of the choice spirits of the age to stay at home, and by industry and enterprize
aim at multiplying the means of content to quiet life: he might have found a harder task than
now devolves on him, who urges, that the materialism of this age must pass away, as has passed
the chivalry of the crusades; both for the same reason; the progress of thought must outgrow
the one, as it has outgrown the other.

A new age with another spirit will be ushered in.  What is to be the spirit of that age?  Are
we to find the forebodings in the dreamy sentimentalism, which boasts so much its flights beyond
common material ideas?  I trow rather, we may trace the character of the coming age in an increasing
estimation of health, knowledge, mental cultivation, intellectual life, and the flow of the
social affections, as the prime of earthly felicities--in an approximation towards rationally
estimating money (with the ability to command it) as the means of meeting one's capacities
of enjoyment--to be no longer worshipped as itself the idol or the end.

When a pestilential disease breaks out in the city, the plainness and urgency of the case compel
all to see in the sickness of one the danger of all.  Wants and discomforts, which charity
had been too cold to attend to, now considered as sources of contagion, are administered to
with a ready alacrity.  The law is recognized, according to which, "if one member suffers,
all the members suffer with it."  And this law will be more fully recognized, as self-love
is educated--as men better understand their own welfare, and choose with reference to the whole
of their nature, and the duration of their existence.

Self-love is a motive of the indifferent kind--not of itself essentially good or bad.  This
appears from its being an essential part of our nature.  Indeed, we can hardly conceive it
as within the province of Omnipotence, to create a rational sentient being, who should be indifferent
to his own happiness.

The advantages accruing from an educated self-love are:

First, additional security, that the good work of charity be done; and to all but the individual
doer, it may matter little what be the prompting motives.

Secondly, the expansion of yet nobler principles.  Each act favors the growth of the sentiments,
of which it is the expression.  So he who does as benevolence bids, though from a motive secondary
on the score of purity, will be likely again to do the same from yet purer motives. So at least
if the essential principle be there, though appearing no more vividly than as a cold sense of duty.

But, thirdly, self-love is made the rule and standard of charity: "Thou shalt love thy neighbor
as thyself."  One must then first love himself, in order to loving his neighbor.  Keeping this
rule, there is no danger of loving thyself too well; rather, the more truly thou lovest thyself,
the more truly thou lovest thy neighbor.

Suppose one to cherish the vulgar notion of life--that it consists in the abundance of the
things which one possesses, in the ability to live without exertion, amid plenty of good cheer.
Suppose him to love his neighbor as himself.  His charity must partake of the contraction and
grossness of his self-love.  Suppose another to prize duly intellectual riches.  To him the
discovery of a new principle in the physical, intellectual, or moral world, brings a joy unsurpassed
by the merchant's, on the return of his heavily laden ship from a successful voyage.  As the
best legacy to his children, he would leave them a good education; and, knowing the natural
influences and dependencies existing between young minds, he aims to have all the children
in the neighborhood well educated, as the best security against failure in the attempt to educate
his own.  If all is but a refined calculation, how best to benefit himself and household; it
is far more estimable and amiable than the gross selfishness which grovels after vulgar goods,
and in the success of a brother sees an obstacle to its own success. But if he too loves his
neighbor as himself, why how far his self-love is educated to find its satisfaction in nobler
ends, by so much his charity is better than the other's.

There is hope for the future in the consideration, that self-interest, the first, as well as
love of approbation, the second, of the great powers which move the world, indeed all the indifferent
motives, are getting still more into coincidence of action with justice and benevolence.

When Jesus enforced a duty by the consideration, "Then shalt thou have worship [respect, approval,]
in the presence of them that sit at meat with thee," he implied two things; first, that regard
to the world's respectful esteem is not a censurable motive; and, secondly, that the same operates
to good, rather than to evil.  So it must have been even in that corrupt generation, so disposed
to call evil good and good evil.  It must be much more so now, when public sentiment has so
much improved.  Notwithstanding the danger of loving the praise of man more than the praise
of God, and the mischiefs resulting from such preference, we should lose, on the whole, by
eradicating the love of human praise.  Witness the accounts of the atrocious outbreaks of depravity
at the gold diggings, while society was yet unformed. Witness, wherever cease the common restraints
of civilization.

Thus agents--so often the authors of discord and confusion, so often the fire-brands to set
the world in fumes--philanthropy is more and more firing as her sure allies.

      "Even so, the torch of hellish flames
           Becomes a leading light to heaven:
       And so corruption's self becomes
           To bread of life the living leaven."

All analogies point to a still increasing vigor in the growth of the kingdom of heaven.  If
the mustard tree is never seen growing, but only to have grown; yet the greater the tree, the
greater its power of daily making large growth, without its growing being perceived.

All considerations indicate the power of each to do something to forward the consummation.
No member of society is so insignificant, that his spiritual life does not affect the health
of the whole.  The obscurest, who cherishes a preference of ideal wealth over material riches
and sensual delights, does something towards forming a sane public sentiment, just as surely
as the tenant of the humblest city dwelling, who keeps clean his own premises, does something
towards promoting the general health.

