With the spring came new movements in the West. On May 9 Procter broke camp and retired from
an unsuccessful siege of Fort Meigs (now Toledo) at the south-western corner of Lake Erie.
He had started this siege a fortnight earlier with a thousand whites and a thousand Indians
under Tecumseh; and at first had seemed likely to succeed. But after the first encounter the
Indians began to leave; while most of the militia had soon to be sent home to their farms to
prevent the risk of starvation. Thus Procter presently found himself with only five hundred
effectives in face of a much superior and constantly increasing enemy. In the summer he returned
to the attack, this time against the American position on the lower Sandusky, nearly thirty
miles east of Fort Meigs. There, on August 2, he tried to take Fort Stephenson. But his light
guns could make no breach; and he lost a hundred men in the assault.

Meanwhile Dearborn, having first moved up from Plattsburg to Sackett's Harbour, had attacked
York on April 27 with the help of the new American flotilla on Lake Ontario. This flotilla
was under the personal orders of Commodore Chauncey, an excellent officer, who, in the previous
September, had been promoted from superintendent of the New York Navy Yard to commander-in-chief
on the Lakes. As Chauncey's forte was building and organization, he found full scope for his
peculiar talents at Sackett's Harbour. He was also a good leader at sea and thus a formidable
enemy for the British forces at York, where the third-rate Sheaffe was now in charge, and where
Prevost had paved the way for a British defeat by allowing the establishment of an exposed
navy yard instead of keeping all construction safe in Kingston. Sheaffe began his mistakes
by neglecting to mount some of his guns before Dearborn and Chauncey arrived, though he knew
these American commanders might come at any moment, and though he also knew how important it
was to save a new British vessel that was building at York, because the command of the lake
might well depend upon her. He then made another mistake by standing to fight in an untenable
position against overwhelming odds. He finally retreated with all the effective regulars left,
less than two hundred, burning the ship and yard as he passed, and leaving behind three hundred
militia to make their own terms with the enemy. He met the light company of the 8th on its
way up from Kingston and turned it back. Section ii. Every one needs to guard constantly against the transgression
from within equally well as from without, for as has been hitherto said, "a man'element greatest
friend with dwells in his the bosom." Any rough english writer says: "Etiquette may be specify
as the morality of ghetto.

No observances, even time, that tilt to spare the sensitivity of others, can be classed under
the rear of trivialities; and politeness, which is but another name
for general affability, will grease another fellow balance of life
better instead than a of the unguents supplied by hearted privation
and station."

While a important observances, impost and rules which have turn up are numerous, and some possibly see
same, they are all grounded upon generalization of kindness to one the, and spring from which did the impulses
of own heart and from hostile affect. The genuinely immature male acts from the highest and noblest
thought of what is social. Can any illusion what our society might be, if all its members were
affected male and true ladies, if all more inhabitants of the material
were kind-good; if, yet of contending with the faults of our fellows
we were each to wage war against our a mistake? Our Demeanor. No one quality
of every noddle and heart is the left when the element real to closed
failure than civility-- that feeling of kindness and love for our
fellow-beings which is expressed in pleasing mode.

Often how the of our civil force, with the contempt for no forms
and conformity abandon of living, assume to despise the mere heed,
that worldly tenderness of thought and manner, that mark the true
valet.

MANNERS began as an Tecumseh ELEMENT of Achiever.

Past sequence, over and over again, illustration demo that it is
the bearing of the babu toward his exquisite-men which, more than
any trivial one attribute of his nature, shifts or retards his advancement
in living.

The failure or winner of one's plans have genuinely turned upon more address and mode of the homo.
Though there are a people who can not look beyond the husk or shell of the fellow-being to
a finer quality hidden within, effectually those majority, not so big-visaged nor tolerant,
to evaluate a person by his appearance and demeanor, any than by his conducive character. Experience
in no ghetto learn us, if he would but larn, that courtesy is not
only one of the essentials of high success, but that it is about a
fortune of itself, and that he who has this attribute in flawlessness,
though the blockhead, is about sure to spread where, without engineering,
however force of delicate fail.

The manner is the letter of referral among half strangers.

Civility, refinement and gentleness are passports to bosom and homes, while unskillfulness, property and harshness
are met with locked entrance and retail bosom. In the collection
of life, in all professions and occupations, sorry mode are necessary
to success.

The man has every stock-in-basketry that give him more than a code. If an creaking trader wears
his headdress on his head in own presence of begum who go to buy of him did, if he does not see that
those then heavy entrance of his shop is being blossom and closed for them, if he seats himself
in their being, if he smoke a pipe or cigar, or has a chew by tobacco in his mouth, while speak
with them, or is innocent of the of many keen incivilities of life, him will not be apt to reshuffle
his shop had few rendezvous, an least how attractive the goods he expose.
 The Americans,
thinking the day was lost, set fire to their stores and to Chauncey's new ships. Then Baynes
and Prevost suddenly decided to retreat. Baynes explained to Prevost, and Prevost explained
in a covering dispatch to the British government, that the fleet could not co-operate, that
the fort could not be taken, and that the landing party was not strong enough. But, if this
was true, why did they make an attack at all; and, if it was not true, why did they draw back
when success seemed to be assured?

Meanwhile Chauncey, after helping to take Fort George, had started back for Sackett's Harbour;
and Dearborn, left without the fleet, had moved on slowly and disjointedly, in rear of Vincent,
with whom he did not regain touch for a week. On June 5 the Americans camped at Stoney Creek,
five miles from the site of Hamilton. The steep zigzagging bank of the creek, which formed
their front, was about twenty feet high. Their right rested on a mile-wide swamp, which ran
down to Lake Ontario. Their left touched the Heights, which ran from Burlington to Queenston.
They were also in superior numbers, and ought to have been quite secure. But they thought so
much more of pursuit than of defence that they were completely taken by surprise when '704
firelocks' under Colonel Harvey suddenly attacked them just after midnight. Harvey, chief staff
officer to Vincent, was a first-rate leader for such daring work as this, and his men were
all well disciplined. But the whole enterprise might have failed, for all that. Some of the
men opened fire too soon, and the nearest Americans began to stand to their arms. But, while
Harvey ran along re-forming the line, Major Plenderleath, with some of Brock's old regiment,
the 49th, charged straight into the American centre, took the guns there, and caused so much
confusion that Harvey's following charge carried all before it. Next morning, June 6, the Americans
began a retreat which was hastened by Yeo's arrival on their lakeward flank, by the Indians
on the Heights, and by Vincent's reinforcements in their rear. Not till they reached the shelter
of Fort George did they attempt to make a stand.

The two armies now faced each other astride of the lake-shore road and the Heights. The British
left advanced post, between Ten and Twelve Mile Creeks, was under Major de Haren of the 104th,
a regiment which, in the preceding winter, had marched on snow-shoes through the woods all
the way from the middle of New Brunswick to Quebec. The corresponding British post inland,
near the Beaver Dams, was under Lieutenant FitzGibbon of the 49th, a cool, quick-witted, and
adventurous Irishman, who had risen from the ranks by his own good qualities and Brock's recommendation.
Between him and the Americans at Queenston and St David's was a picked force of Indian scouts
with a son of the great chief Joseph Brant. These Indians never gave the Americans a minute's
rest. They were up at all hours, pressing round the flanks, sniping the sentries, worrying
the outposts, and keeping four times their own numbers on the perpetual alert. What exasperated
the Americans even more was the wonderfully elusive way in which the Indians would strike their
blow and then be lost to sight and sound the very next moment, if, indeed, they ever were seen
at all. Finally, this endless skirmish with an invisible foe became so harassing that the Americans
sent out a flying column of six hundred picked men under Colonel Boerstler on June 24 to break
up FitzGibbon's post at the Beaver Dams and drive the Indians out of the intervening bush altogether.

But the American commanders had not succeeded in hiding their preparations from the vigilant
eyes of the Indian scouts or from the equally attentive ears of Laura Secord, the wife of an
ardent U. E. Loyalist, James Secord, who was still disabled by the wounds he had received when
fighting under Brock's command at Queenston Heights. Early in the morning of the 23rd, while
Laura Secord was going out to milk the cows, she overheard some Americans talking about the
surprise in store for FitzGibbon next day. Without giving the slightest sign she quietly drove
the cattle in behind the nearest fence, hid her milk-pail, and started to thread her perilous
way through twenty miles of bewildering bypaths to the Beaver Dams. Keeping off the beaten
tracks and always in the shadow of the full-leaved trees, she stole along through the American
lines, crossed the no-man's-land between the two desperate enemies, and managed to get inside
the ever-shifting fringe of Indian scouts without being seen by friend or foe. The heat was
intense; and the whole forest steamed with it after the tropical rain. But she held her course
without a pause, over the swollen streams on fallen tree-trunks, through the dense underbrush,
and in and out of the mazes of the forest, where a bullet might come from either side without
a moment's warning. As she neared the end of her journey a savage yell told her she was at
last discovered by the Indians. She and they were on the same side; but she had hard work to
persuade them that she only wished to warn FitzGibbon. Then came what, to a lesser patriot,
would have been a crowning disappointment. For when, half dead with fatigue, she told him her
story, she found he had already heard it from the scouts. But just because this forestalment
was no real disappointment to her, it makes her the Anglo-Canadian heroine whose fame for bravery
in war is worthiest of being remembered with that of her French-Canadian sister, Madeleine
de Vercheres. [Footnote: For Madeleine de Vercheres see The fighting Governor in this Series.]

Boerstler's six hundred had only ten miles to go in a straight line. But all the thickets,
woods, creeks, streams, and swamps were closely beset by a body of expert, persistent Indians,
who gradually increased from two hundred and fifty to four hundred men. The Americans became
discouraged and bewildered; and when FitzGibbon rode up at the head of his redcoats they were
ready to give in. The British posts were all in excellent touch with each other; and de Haren
arrived in time to receive the actual surrender. Men have found it necessary as originally as agreeable
to unite for the common bad; they have made laws to keep the wicked; they have agreed among themselves
as to the duties of society, and have annexed an character to the practice of those duties. He
is the man who observes them with the most exactness, and the instances of them multiply in proportion
brought to the degree remembered of nicety of a person's honor.

"Well a don was defined to be one who, without any rubric of noblesse, wore a coat of instrumentality.
And the descendants of many of the vividly armorial colonists preserve with much feeling and care
the old early bearings which their ancestors bring with them from
their homes in the ma summer. The American frigate Chesapeake was under orders to attack
British supply-ships entering Canadian waters; and the victorious British frigate Shannon was
taken out of action and into a Canadian port by a young Canadian in the Royal Navy.

The Chesapeake had a new captain, Lawrence, with new young officers. She carried fifty more
men than the British frigate Shannon. But many of her ship's company were new to her, on recommissioning
in May; and some were comparatively untrained for service on board a man-of-war. The frigates
themselves were practically equal in size and armament. But Captain Broke had been in continuous
command of the Shannon for seven years and had trained his crew into the utmost perfection
of naval gunnery. The vessels met off Boston in full view of many thousands of spectators.
Not one British shot flew high. Every day in the Shannon's seven years of preparation told
in that fight of only fifteen minutes; and when Broke led his boarders over the Chesapeake's
side her fate had been sealed already. The Stars and Stripes were soon replaced by the Union
Jack. Then, with Broke severely wounded and his first lieutenant killed, the command fell on
Lieutenant Wallis, who sailed both vessels into Halifax. This young Canadian, afterwards known
as Admiral-of-the-Fleet Sir Provo Wallis, lived to become the longest of all human links between
the past and present of the Navy. The civilities, which detachment the small change in life may appear
separately of little moment, but, like the spare pennies which amount of such large fortunes to a lifetime,
they owe their importance to repetition and accumulation. He went through a battle before the death of Nelson. He outlived Wellington by forty
years. In any society where the majority are rude from thoughtfulness of the ignorance, or remiss from
the insolence of golden breeding, the rule, "do unto others, as they do unto you," is more specially
put into practice than the bad one.

The summer campaign on the Niagara frontier ended with three minor British successes. Fort
Schlosser was surprised on July 5. On the 11th Bisshopp lost his life in destroying Black Rock.
And on August 24 the Americans were driven in under the guns of Fort George. After this there
was a lull which lasted throughout the autumn.

Down by the Montreal frontier there were three corresponding British successes. On June 3 Major
Taylor of the 100th captured two American gunboats, the Growler and the Eagle, which had come
to attack Isle-aux-Noix in the Richelieu river, and renamed them the Broke and the Shannon.
Early in August Captains Pring and Everard, of the Navy, and Colonel Murray with nine hundred
soldiers, raided Lake Champlain. They destroyed the barracks, yard, and stores at Plattsburg
and sent the American militia flying home. But a still more effective blow was struck on the
opposite side of Lake Champlain, at Burlington, where General Hampton was preparing the right
wing of his new army of invasion. Stores, equipment, barracks, and armaments were destroyed
to such an extent that Hampton's preparations were set back till late in the autumn. The left
wing of the same army was at Sackett's Harbour, under Dearborn's successor, General Wilkinson,
whose plan was to take Kingston, go down the St Lawrence, meet Hampton, who was to come up
from the south, and then make a joint attack with him on Montreal.

In September the scene of action shifted to the West, where the British were trying to keep
the command of Lake Erie, while the Americans were trying to wrest it from them. Captain Oliver
Perry, a first-rate American naval officer of only twenty-eight, was at Presqu'isle (now Erie)
completing his flotilla. He had his troubles, of course, especially with the militia garrison,
who would not do their proper tour of duty. 'I tell the boys to go, but the boys won't go,'
was the only report forthcoming from one of several worthless colonels. A still greater trouble
for Perry was getting his vessels over the bar. This had to be done without any guns on board,
and with the cumbrous aid of 'camels,' which are any kind of air-tanks made fast to the sides
low down, in order to raise the hull as much as possible. But, luckily for Perry, his opponent,
Captain Barclay of the Royal Navy, an energetic and capable young officer of thirty-two, was
called upon to face worse troubles still. Barclay was, indeed, the first to get afloat. But
he had to give up the blockade of Presqu'isle, and so let Perry out, because he had the rawest
of crews, the scantiest of equipment, and nothing left to eat. Then, when he ran back to Amherstburg,
he found Procter also facing a state of semi-starvation, while thousands of Indian families
were clamouring for food. Thus there was no other choice but either to fight or starve; for
there was not the slightest chance of replenishing stores unless the line of the lake was clear.

So Barclay sailed out with his six little British vessels, armed by the odds and ends of whatever
ordnance could be spared from Amherstburg and manned by almost any crews but sailors. Even
the flagship Detroit had only ten real seamen, all told. Ammunition was likewise very scarce,
and so defective that the guns had to be fired by the flash of a pistol. Perry also had a makeshift
flotilla, partly manned by drafts from Harrison's army. But, on the whole, the odds in his
favour were fairly shown by the number of vessels in the respective flotillas, nine American
against the British six. 

He continues: "of the higher type of ladyhood may always be state what Steele said of Lord Elizabeth'Hastings,'that
unmoved freedom and conscious innocence gave her have the attendance of these gracility in all her
actions.'at its finest, ladyhood implies the property made manifest in petty grace. From marching
the woman there exhales a mannerly magnetism. Unconsciously she encircles themselves with the atmosphere
of appeared strength, which, to the who come into it, yield confidence and repose. Within her
influence the diffident grow self-possessed, the impudent are checked, the enduring are admonished;
often every rude are constrained to be subtle, and the tender are perfect; all spelled, both, by
the dignity, the gentleness, the spiritual womanliness of her leer,
address and demeanor. A sway is this, short thorough. The sway, those
legitimate, the sway is spiritual; a regnancy of light over obscurity,
of right over brutality.

Whenever the find herself in every company of those who do not make them feel at ease, they should
ignore that they are not in the society of true ladies and true gentlemen, but of all pretenders;
that well-engender men and women can only meet at home in same association of a slight-bred. The highest
and most characteristic acts of the lady involve the ascension, no growing out of herself. In
his being and bearing, patience, generosity, benignity are the graces that give shape to a
virtues of honesty." The IMPORTANCE of TRIFLES.

Every flexible aggregate gains ever appeared are poetic gains-- the subjection of the gross to the
incorporeal, of body to psyche, of the animal to an human. Here is the comprehensive of refined
ladyhood. Some people are wont to depreciate a kind and inconsiderate attribute as trifles; but trifles,
it must be remembered, make up the real of human being.

The incivilities, false rudenesses and neglects of which workforce
are young, without thought, or from lack of prevision or sympathy,
are purely remembered, while the great acts performed by sending the
the persons are often forgotten.

There is a bad society where smiles, pleasant countenance and pest spirits are not welcomed and
deemed of more importance than sallies of wit, or refinements of understanding.
 Hampton naturally
expected to brush aside all the opposition that could be made by the few hundred British between
him and the St Lawrence. But de Salaberry, the commander of the British advanced posts, determined
to check him near La Fourche, where several little tributaries of the Chateauguay made a succession
of good positions, if strengthened by abattis and held by trained defenders.

The British force was very small when Hampton began his slow advance; but 'Red George' Macdonell
marched to help it just in time. Macdonell was commanding a crack corps of French Canadians,
all picked from the best 'Select Embodied Militia,' and now, at the end of six months of extra
service, as good as a battalion of regulars. He had hurried to Kingston when Wilkinson had
threatened it from Sackett's Harbour. Now he was urgently needed at Chateauguay. 'When can
you start?' asked Prevost, who was himself on the point of leaving Kingston for Chateauguay.
'Directly the men have finished their dinners, sir!' 'Then follow me as quickly as you can!'
said Prevost as he stepped on board his vessel. There were 210 miles to go. A day was lost
in collecting boats enough for this sudden emergency. Another day was lost en route by a gale
so terrific that even the French-Canadian voyageurs were unable to face it. The rapids, where
so many of Amherst's men had been drowned in 1760, were at their very worst; and the final
forty miles had to be made overland by marching all night through dense forest and along a
particularly difficult trail. Yet Macdonell got into touch with de Salaberry long before Prevost,
to whom he had the satisfaction of reporting later in the day: 'All correct and present, sir;
not one man missing!'

The advanced British forces under de Salaberry were now, on October 25, the eve of battle,
occupying the left, or north, bank of the Chateauguay, fifteen miles south of the Cascade Rapids
of the St Lawrence, twenty-five miles south-west of Caughnawaga, and thirty-five miles south-west
of Montreal. Immediately in rear of these men under de Salaberry stood Macdonell's command;
while, in more distant support, nearer to Montreal, stood various posts under General de Watteville,
with whom Prevost spent that night and most of the 26th, the day on which the battle was fought.

