Night had tiptoed in over the October countryside quite some time ago, but the village of Valleyview
had not turned on so much as a single streetlight--nor, apparently, any other kind of light.
All was in darkness, and not a soul was to be seen. Philip began to suspect that he had entered
a ghost town, and when his headlights darted across a dark intersection and picked up the overgrown
grass and unkempt shrubbery of the village park, he was convinced that he had. Then he saw
the girl walking the dog.

He kitty-cornered the intersection and pulled up alongside her. She was a blonde, tall and
chic in a gray fall suit. Her face was attractive--beautiful even, in a cold and classic way--but
she would never see twenty-five again. But then, Philip would never again see thirty. When
she paused, her dog paused too, although she did not have it on a leash. It was on the small
side, tawny in hue, with golden-brown eyes, a slender white-tipped tail, and shaggy ears that
hung down on either side of its face in a manner reminiscent of a cocker spaniel's. It wasn't
a cocker spaniel, though. The ears were much too long, for one thing, and the tail was much
too delicate, for another. It was a breed--or combination of breeds--that Philip had never
seen before.

He leaned across the seat and rolled down the right-hand window. "Could you direct me to number
23 Locust Street?" he asked. "It's the residence of Judith Darrow, the village attorney. Maybe
you know her."

The girl gave a start. "Are you the real-estate man I sent for?"

Philip gave a start, too. Recovering himself, he said, "Then you're Judith Darrow. I'm ...
I'm afraid I'm a little late."

The girl's eyes flashed. The radiant backwash of the headlights revealed them to be both green
and gray. "I specified in my letter that you were supposed to be here at nine o'clock this
morning!" she said. "Maybe you'll tell me how you're going to appraise property in the dark!"

"I'm sorry," Philip said. "My car broke down on the way, and I had to wait for it to be fixed.
When I tried to call you, the operator told me that your phone had been disconnected. If you'll
direct me to the hotel, I'll stay there overnight and appraise your property in the morning.
There is a hotel, isn't there?"

"There is--but it's closed. Zarathustra--down!" The dog had raised up on its hind legs and
placed its forepaws on the door in an unsuccessful attempt to peer in the window. At the girl's
command, it sank obediently down on its haunches. "Except for Zarathustra and myself," she
went on, "the village is empty. Everyone else has already moved out, and we'd have moved out,
too, if I hadn't been entrusted with arranging for the sale of the business places and the
houses. It makes for a rather awkward situation."

She had leaned forward, and the light from the dash lay palely upon her face, softening its
austerity. "I don't get this at all," Philip said. "From your letter I assumed you had two
or three places you wanted me to sell, but not a whole town. There must have been at least
a thousand people living here, and a thousand people just don't pack up and move out all at
once." When she volunteered no explanation, he added, "Where did they move to?"

"To Pfleugersville. I know you've never heard of it, so save the observation." Then, "Do you
have any identification?" she asked.

He gave her his driver's license, his business card and the letter she had written him. After
glancing at them, she handed them back. She appeared to be undecided about something. "Why
don't you let me stay at the hotel?" he suggested. "You must have the key if it's one of the
places I'm supposed to appraise."

