"I've been meaning to tell you," he said, "that's off. The place ain't paying and the boss
shut four of us down to-night ... I'm not to go back ... Peter, boy," he finished, almost triumphantly.
"We're up against it ... I've got a quid in my pocket and that's all there is to it."

They faced one another whilst the candle behind them guttered and blew in the window cracks,
and the cluster of stars, still caught in the dirty roofs and chimneys of Bucket Lane, twinkled,
desperately--in vain.

CHAPTER VIII

STEPHEN'S CHAPTER

I

No knight--the hero of any chronicle--ever went forward to his battle with a braver heart than
did Peter now in his desperate adventure against the world. His morbidity, his introspection,
his irritation with Stephen's simplicities fled from him... he was gay, filled with the glamour
of showing what one could do... he did not doubt but that a fortnight would see him in a magnificent
position. And then--the fortnight passed and he and Stephen had still their positions to discover--the
money moreover was almost at an end... another fortnight would behold them penniless.

It was absurd--it was monstrous, incredible. Life was not like that--Peter bit his lip and
set out again. Editors had not, on most occasions, vouchsafed him even an interview. Then had
come no answer to the four halfpenny wrappers. The world, like a wall of shining steel, closed
him in with impenetrable silence.

It was absurd--it was monstrous. Peter fought desperately, as a bird beats with its wings on
the bars of its cage. They were having the worst of luck. On several occasions he had been
just too late and some one had got the position before him. Stephen too found that the places
where he had worked before had now no job for him. "It was the worst time in the world... a
month ago now or possibly in a month's time...."

Stephen did not tell the boy that away from London there were many things that he could do--the
boy was not up to tramping. Indeed, nothing was more remarkable than the way in which Peter's
strength seemed to strain, like a flood, away. It was, perhaps, a matter of nerves as much
as physical strength--the boy was burning with the anxiety of it, whereas to Stephen this was
no new experience. Peter saw it in the light of some horrible disaster that belonged, in all
the world's history, to him alone. He came back at the end of one of his days, white, his eyes
almost closed, his fingers twitching, his head hanging a little ... very silent.

He seemed to feel bitterly the ignominy of it as though he were realising, for the first time,
that nobody wanted him. He had come now to be ready to do anything, anything in the world,
and he had the look of one who was ready to do anything. His blue coat was shiny, his boots
had been patched by Stephen--there were deep black hollows under his eyes and his mouth had
become thin and hard.

Stephen--having himself his own distresses to support--watched the boy with acute anxiety.
He felt with increasing unhappiness, that here was an organism, a temperament, that was new
to him, that was beyond his grasp. Peter saw things in it all--this position of a desperate
cry for work--that he, Stephen, had never seen at all. Peter would sit in the evening, in his
chair, staring in front of him, silent, and hearing nothing that Stephen said to him. With
Stephen life was a case of having money or not having it--if one had not money one went without
everything possible and waited until the money came again ... the tide was sure to turn. But,
with Peter, this was all a fight against his father who sat, apparently, in the dark rooms
at Scaw House, willing disaster. Now, as Stephen and all the sensible world knew, this was
nonsense--

It was also, in some still stranger way, a fight against London itself--not London, a place
of streets and houses, of Oxford Street and Piccadilly Circus but London, an animal--a kind
of dragon as far as Stephen could make it out with scales and a tail--

Now what was one to make of this except that the boy's head was being turned and that he ought
to see a doctor.

There was also the further question of an appeal to Brockett's or Mr. Zanti. Stephen knew that
Herr Gottfried or Mr. Zanti would lend help eagerly did they but know, and he supposed, from
the things that Peter had told him, that there were also warm friends at Brockett's; but the
boy had made him swear, with the last order of solemnity, that he would send no word to either
place. Peter had said that he would never speak to him again should he do such a thing. He
had said that should he once obtain an independent position then he would go back ... but not
before.

Stephen did not know what to do nor where to go. In another month's time the rent could not
be paid and then they must go into the street and Peter was in no condition for that--he should
rather be in bed. Mrs. Williams, it is true, would not be hard upon them, for she was a kind
woman and had formed a great liking for Peter, but she had only enough herself to keep her
family alive and she must, for her children's sake, let the room.

To Stephen, puzzling in vain and going round and round in a hopeless circle, it seemed as though
Peter's brains were locked in an iron box and they could not find a key. For himself, well,
it was natural enough! But Peter, with that genius, that no one should want him!

And yet through it all, at the back of the misery and distress of it, there was a wild pride,
a fierce joy that he had the key with him, that he was all in the world to whom the boy might
look, that to him and to him alone, in this wild, cold world Peter now belonged.

It was his moment....

II

At the end of a terrible day of disastrous rejections Peter, stumbling down the Strand, was
conscious of a little public-house, with a neat bow-window, that stood back from the street.
At the bottom of his trouser pocket a tiny threepenny piece that Stephen had, that morning,
thrust upon him, turned round and round in his fingers. He had not spent it--he had intended
to restore it to Stephen in the evening. He had meant, too, to walk back all the way to Bucket
Lane but now he felt that he could not do that unless he were first to take something. This
little inn with its bow-windows.... Down the Strand in the light of the setting sun, he saw
again that which he had often seen during these last weeks--that chain of gaunt figures that
moved with bending backs and twisted fingers, on and out of the crowds and the carriages--The
beggars!... He felt, already, that they knew that he was soon to be one of their number, that
every day, every hour brought him nearer to their ranks. An old man, dirty, in rags, stepped
with an eager eye past him and stooped for a moment into the gutter. He rose again, slipping
something into his pocket of his tattered coat. He gave Peter a glance--to the boy it seemed
a glance of triumphant recognition and then he had slipped away.

Peter had had very little to eat during these last days and to-night, for the first time, things
began to take an uncertain shape. As he stood on the kerb and looked, it seemed to him that
the Strand was the sea-road at Treliss, that the roar of the traffic was the noise that the
sea made, far below them. If one could see round the corner, there where the sun flung a patch
of red light, one would come upon Scaw House in its dark clump of trees--and through the window
of that front room, Peter could see his father and that old woman, one on each side of the
fire-place, drinking.

But the sea-road was stormy to-night, its noise was loud in Peter's ears. And then the way
that people brushed against him as they passed recalled him to himself and he slipped back
almost into the bow-window of the little inn. He was feeling very unwell and there was a burning
pain in his chest that hurt him when he drew a deep breath ... and then too he was very cold
and his teeth chattered in fits as though he had suddenly lost control of them and they had
become some other person's teeth.

Well, why not go into the little inn and have a drink? Then he would go back to Bucket Lane
and lie down and never wake again. For he was so tired that he had never known before what
it was to be tired at all--only Stephen would not let him sleep.... Stephen was cruel and would
not let him alone. No one would let him alone--the world had treated him very evilly--what
did he owe the world?

He would go now and surrender to these things, these things that were stronger than he ...
he would drink and he would sleep and that should be the end of everything ... the blessed end.

He swayed a little on his feet and he put his hand to his forehead in order that he might think
more clearly.

Some one had said once to him a great many years ago--"It is not life that matters but the
Courage that you bring to it." Well, that was untrue. He would like to tell the man who had
said that that he was a liar. No Courage could be enough if life chose to be hard. No Courage--

Nevertheless, the thought of somewhere a long time ago when some one had said that to him,
slowly filled his tired brain with a distaste for the little inn with the bow-windows. He would
not go there yet, just a little while and then he would go.

Almost dreaming--certainly seeing nothing about him that he recognised--he stumbled confusedly
down to the Embankment. Here there was at any rate air, he drew his shabby blue coat more closely
about him and sat down on a wooden bench, in company with a lady who wore a large damaged feather
in her hat and a red stained blouse with torn lace upon it and a skirt of a bright and tarnished
blue.

The lady gave him a nod.

"Cheer, chucky," she said.

Peter made no reply.

"Down on your uppers? My word, you look bad-- Poor Kid! Well, never say die--strike me blimy
but there's a good day coming--"

"I sat here once before," said Peter, leaning forward and addressing her very earnestly, "and
it was the first time that I ever heard the noise that London makes. If you listen you can
hear it now--London's a beast you know--"

But the lady had paid very little attention. "Men are beasts, beasts," she said, scowling at
a gap in the side of her boots, "beasts, that's what they are. 'Aven't 'ad any luck the last
few nights. Suppose I'm losin' my looks sittin' out 'ere in the mud and rain. There was a time,
young feller, my lad, when I 'ad my carriage, not 'arf!" She spat in front of her--"'E was
a good sort, 'e was--give me no end of a time ... but the lot of men I've been meetin' lately
ain't fit to be called men--they ain't--mean devils--leavin' me like this, curse 'em!" She
coughed. The sun had set now and the lights were coming out, like glass beads on a string on
the other side of the river. "Stoppin' out all night, ducky? Stayin' 'ere? 'Cause I got a bit
of a cough!--disturbs fellers a bit ... last feller said as 'ow 'e couldn't get a bit o' sleep
because of it--damned rot I call it. 'Owever it isn't out of doors you ought to be sittin',
chucky. Feelin' bad?"

Peter looked at her out of his half-closed eyes.

"I can't bother any more," he said to her sleepily. "They're so cruel--they won't let me go
to sleep. I've got a pain here--in my chest you know. Have you got a pain in your chest?"

"My leg's sore," she answered, "where a chap kicked me last week--just because--oh well," she
paused modestly and spat again--"It's comin' on cold."

A cold little wind was coining up the river, ruffling the tips of the trees and turning the
leaves of the plane-trees back as though it wanted to clean the other sides of them.

Peter got up unsteadily. "I'm going home to sleep," he said, "I'm dreadfully tired. Good-night."

"So long, chucky," the lady with the damaged feather said to him. He left her eyeing discontentedly
the hole in her boot and trying to fasten, with confused fingers, the buttons of the red blouse.

Peter mechanically, as one walking in a dream, crept into an omnibus. Mechanically he left
it and mechanically climbed the stairs of the house in Bucket Lane. There were two fixed thoughts
in his brain--one was that no one in the world had ever before been as thirsty as he was, and
that he would willingly commit murder or any violence if thereby he might obtain drink, and
the other thought was that Stephen was his enemy, that he hated Stephen because Stephen never
left him alone and would not let him sleep--also in the back of his mind distantly, as though
it concerned some one else, that he was very unhappy....

Stephen was sitting on one of the beds, looking in front of him. Peter moved forward heavily
and sat on the other bed. They looked at one another.

"No luck," said Stephen, "Armstrong's hadn't room for a man. Ricroft wouldn't see me. Peter,
I'm thinking we'll have to take to the roads--"

Peter made no answer.

"Yer not lookin' a bit well, lad. I doubt if yer can stand much more of it."

Peter looked across at him sullenly.

"Why can't you leave me alone?" he said. "You're always worrying--"

A slow flush mounted into Stephen's cheeks but he said nothing.

"Well, why don't you say something? Nothing to say--it isn't bad enough that you've brought
me into this--"

"Come, Mr. Peter," Stephen answered slowly. "That ain't fair. I never brought you into this.
I've done my best."

"Oh, blame me, of course. That's natural enough. If it hadn't been for you--"

Stephen came into the middle of the floor.

"Come, Peter boy, yer tired. Yer don't know what yer saying. Best go to bed. Don't be saying
anything that yer'd be regretting afterwards--"

Peter's eyes that had been closed, suddenly opened, blazing. "Oh, damn you and your talk--I
hate you. I wish I'd never seen you--a rotten kind of friendship--" his voice died off into
muttering.

Stephen went back to his bed. "This ain't fair, Mr. Peter," he said in a low voice. "You'll
be sorry afterwards. I ain't 'ad any very 'appy time myself these last weeks and now--"

Their nerves were like hot, jangling wires. Suddenly into the midst of that bare room there
had sprung between them hatred. They faced each other ... they could have leapt at one another's
throats and fought....

Suddenly Peter gave a little cry that seemed to fill the room. His head fell forward--

"Oh, Stephen, Stephen, I'm so damned ill, I'm so damnably ill."

He caught for a moment at his chest as though he would tear his shirt open. Then he stumbled
from the bed and lay in a heap on the floor with his hands spread out--

Stephen picked him up in his arms and carried him on to his bed.

III

The little doctor who attended to the wants of Bucket Lane was discovered at his supper. He
was a dirty little man, with large dusty spectacles, a red nose and a bald head. He wore an
old, faded velveteen jacket out of the pockets of which stuck innumerable papers. He was very
often drunk and had a shrew of a wife who made the sober parts of his life a misery, but he
was kind-hearted and generous and had a very real knowledge of his business.

Mrs. Williams volubly could not conceal her concern at Peter's condition--"and 'im such a nice-spoken
young genelman as I was saying only yesterday tea-time, there's nothin' I said, as I wouldn't
be willin' to do for that there poor Mr. Westcott and that there poor Mr. Brant 'oo are as
like two 'elpless children in their fightin' the world as ever I see and 'ow ever can I help
'em I said--"

"Well, my good woman," the little doctor finally interrupted, "you can help here and now by
getting some hot water and the other things I've put down here."

When she was gone he turned slowly to Stephen who stood, the picture of despair, looking down
upon Peter.

"'E's goin' to die?" he asked.

"That depends," the little doctor answered. "The boy's been starved--ought never to have been
allowed to get into this condition. Both of you hard up, I suppose?"

"As 'ard up as we very well could be--" Stephen answered grimly.

"Well--has he no friends?"

There--the question at last. Stephen took it as he would have taken a blow between the eyes.
He saw very clearly that the end of his reign had come. He had done what he could and he had
failed. But in him was the fierce furious desire to fight for the boy. Why should he give him
up, now, when they had spent all these weeks together, when they had struggled for their very
existence side by side. What right had any of these others to Peter compared with his right?
He knew very well that if he gave him up now the boy would never be his again. He might see
him--yes--but that passing of Peter that he had already begun to realise would be accomplished.
He might look at him but only as a wanderer may look from the valley up to the hill. The doctor
broke in upon him as he stood hesitating there--

"Come," he said roughly, "we have not much time. The boy may die. Has he no friends?"

Stephen turned his back to Peter. "Yes," he said, "I know where they are. I will fetch them
myself."

The doctor had not lived in Bucket Lane all these years for nothing. He put his hand on Stephen's
arm and said: "You're a good fellow, by God. It'll be all right."

Stephen went.

On his way to Bennett Square a thousand thoughts filled his mind. He knew, as though he had
been told it by some higher power, that Peter was leaving him now never to return. He had done
what he could for Peter--now the boy must pass on to others who might be able, more fittingly,
to help him. He cursed the Gods that they had not allowed him to obtain work during these weeks,
for then Peter and he might have gone on, working, prospering and the parting might have been
far distant.

But he felt also that Peter's destiny was something higher and larger than anything that he
could ever compass--it must be Peter's life that he should always be leaving people behind
him--stages on his road--until he had attained his place. But for Stephen, a loneliness swept
down upon him that seemed to turn the world to stone. Never, in all the years of his wandering,
had he known anything like this. It is very hard that a man should care for only two creatures
in the world and that he should be held, by God's hand, from reaching either of them.

The door of Brockett's was opened to him by a servant and he asked for Mrs. Brockett. In the
cold and dark hall the lady sternly awaited him, but the sternness fell from her like a cloak
when he told her the reason of his coming--

"Dear me, and the poor boy so ill," she said. "We have all been very anxious indeed about poor
Mr. Peter. We had tried every clue but could hear nothing of him. We were especially eager
to find him because Miss Monogue had some good news for him about his book. There is a gentleman--a
friend of Mr. Peter's--who has been doing everything to find him--who is with Miss Monogue
now. He will be delighted. Perhaps you will go up."

Stephen can have looked no agreeable object at this time, worn out by the struggle of the last
weeks, haggard and gaunt, his beard unkempt--but Norah Monogue came forward to him with both
her hands outstretched.

"Oh, you know something of Peter--tell us, please," she said.

A stout, pleasant-faced gentleman behind her was introduced as Mr. Galleon.

Stephen explained. "But why, why," said the gentleman, "didn't you let us know before, my good
fellow?"

Stephen's brow darkened. "Peter didn't wish it," he said.

But Norah Monogue came forward and put her hand on his arm. "You must be the Mr. Brant about
whom he has so often talked," she said. "I am so glad to meet you at last. Peter owes so much
to you. We have been trying everywhere to get word of him because some publishers have taken
his novel and think very well of it indeed. But come--do let us go at once. There is no time
to lose--"

So they had taken his novel, had they? All these days--all these terrible hours--that starving,
that ghastly anxiety, the boy's terror--all these things had been unnecessary. Had they only
known, this separation now might have been avoided.

He could not trust himself to speak to Bobby Galleon and Norah Monogue. These were the people
who were going to take Peter away.

He turned and went, in silence, down the stairs.

At Bucket Lane Bobby Galleon took affairs into his own hands. At once Peter should be removed
to his house in Chelsea--it would not apparently harm him to be moved that night.

Peter was still unconscious. Stephen stood in the back of the room and watched them make their
preparations. They had all forgotten him. For a moment as they passed down the stairs Stephen
had his last glimpse of Peter. He saw the high white forehead, the long black eyelashes, the
white drawn cheeks.... At this parting Peter had no eye for him.

Bobby Galleon and Miss Monogue both spoke to Stephen pleasantly before they went away. Stephen
did not hear what they said. Bobby took Stephen's name down on a piece of paper.... Then they
were gone. They were all gone.

Mrs. Williams looked through the door at him for a moment but something in the man's face drove
her away. Very slowly he put his few clothes together. He must tramp the roads again--the hard
roads, the glaring sun, cold moon--always going on, always alone--

He shouldered his bag and went out....

BOOK III

THE ROUNDABOUT

CHAPTER I

NO. 72, CHEYNE WALK

I

Burnished clouds--swollen with golden light and soft and changing in their outline--were sailing,
against a pale green autumn evening sky, over Chelsea.

It was nearly six o'clock and at the Knightsbridge end of Sloane Street a cloud of black towers
quivered against the pale green.

The yellow light that the golden clouds shed upon the earth bathed the neat and demure houses
of Sloane Street in a brief bewildered unreality. Sloane Street, not accustomed to unreality,
regretted amiably and with its gentle smile that Nature should insist, once every day, for
some half-hour or so, on these mists and enchantments. The neat little houses called their
masters and mistresses within doors and advised them to rest before dressing for dinner and
so insured these many comfortable souls that they should not be disturbed by any unwelcome
violence on their emotions. Soon, before looking-glasses and tables shining with silver hair-brushes
bodies would be tied and twisted and faces would be powdered and painted--meanwhile, for that
dying moment, Sloane Street was lifted into the hearts of those burnished clouds and held for
an instant in glory. Then to the relief of the neat and shining houses the electric lights
came out, one by one, and the world was itself again....

Beyond Sloane Square, however, the King's Road chattered and rattled and minded not at all
whether the sky were yellow or blue. This was the hour when shopping must be done and barrows
shone beneath their flaring gas, and many ladies, with the appearance of having left their
homes for the merest minute, hurried from stall to stall. The King's Road stands like a noisy
Cheap Jack outside the sanctities of Chelsea. Behind its chatter are the quietest streets in
the world, streets that are silent because they prefer rest to noise and not at all because
they have nothing to say. The King's Road has been hired by Chelsea to keep foreigners away,
and the faint smile that the streets wear is a smile of relief because that noisy road so admirably
achieves its purpose. In this mellow evening light the little houses glow, through the river
mists, across the cobbles. The stranger, on leaving the King's Road behind him, is swept into
a quiet intimacy that has nothing of any town about it; he is refreshed as he might be were
he to leave the noisy train behind him and plunge into the dark, scented hedge-rows and see
before him the twinkling lights of some friendly inn. As the burnished clouds fade from the
sky on the dark surface of the river the black barges hang their lights and in Cheyne Row and
Glebe Place, down Oakley Street, and along the wide spaces of Cheyne Walk, lamps burn mildly
in a hundred windows. Guarded on one side by the sweeping murmur of the river, on the other
by the loud grimaces of the King's Road Chelsea sinks, with a sound like a whisper of its own
name, into evening....

As the last trailing fingers of the golden clouds die before the approaching army of the stars,
as the yellow above the horizon gives way to a cold and iron blue, lights come out in that
house with the green door and the white stone steps--No. 72, Cheyne Walk--that is now Peter
Westcott's home.

II

Peter had, on the very afternoon of that beautiful evening, returned from the sea; there, during
the last three weeks, he had passed his convalescence and now, once again, he faced the world.
Mrs. Galleon and the Galleon baby had been with him and Bobby had come down to them for the
week-ends. In this manner Peter had had an opportunity of getting to know Mrs. Galleon with
a certainty and speed that nothing else could have given him. During the first weeks after
his removal from Bucket Lane, he had been too ill to take any account of his neighbours or
surroundings. He had been sent down to the sea as soon as it was possible and it was here,
watching her quietly or listening to her as she read to him, walking a little with her, playing
with her baby, that he grew to know her and to love her. She had been a Miss Alice du Cane,
at first an intelligent, cynical and rather trivial person. Then suddenly, for no very sure
reason that any one could discover, her character changed. She had known Bobby during many
years and had always laughed at him for a solemn, rather-priggish young man--then she fell
in love with him and, to his own wild and delirious surprise, married him. The companions of
her earlier girlhood missed her cynicism and complained that brilliance had given way to commonplace
but you could not find, in the whole of London, a happier marriage.

To Peter she was something entirely new. Norah Monogue was the only woman with whom, as yet,
he had come into any close contact, and she, by her very humility, had allowed him to assume
to her a superior, rather patronising attitude. The brief vision of Clare Rossiter had been
altogether of the opposite kind, partaking too furiously of heaven to have any earthly quality.
But here in Alice Galleon he discovered a woman who gave him something--companionship, a lively
and critical intelligence, some indefinable quality of charm--that was entirely new to him.

She chaffed him, criticised him, admired him, absorbed him and nattered him in a breath. She
told him that he had a "degree" of talent, that he was the youngest and most ignorant person
for his age that she had ever met, that he was conceited, that he was rough and he had no manners,
that he was too humble, that he was a "flopper" because he was so anxious to please, that he
was a boy and an old man at the same time and finally that the Galleon baby--a solemn child--had
taken to him as it had never taken to any one during the eventful three years of its life.

Behind these contradictory criticisms Peter knew that there was a friend, and he was sensible
enough also to realise that many of the things that she said to him were perfectly true and
that he would do well to take them to heart. At first she had made him angry and that had delighted
her, so he had been angry no longer; it seemed to him, during these days of convalescence,
that the solemn melodramatic young man of Bucket Lane was an incredibility.

And yet, although he felt that that episode had been definitely closed--shut off as it were
by wide doors that held back at a distance, every sound, the noise, the confusion, the terror,
was nevertheless there, but for the moment, the doors were closed. Only in his dreams they
rolled back arid, night after night he awoke, screaming, bathed in sweat, trembling from head
to foot. Sometimes he thought that he saw an army of rats advancing across the floor of their
Bucket Lane room and Stephen and he beat them off, but ever they returned....

Once he thought that their room was invaded by a number of old toothless hags who came in at
the door and the window, and these creatures, with taloned fingers fought, screeching and rolling
their eyes....

Twice he dreamt that he saw on a hill, high uplifted against a stormy sky, the statue of the
Man on the Lion, gigantic. He struggled to see the Rider's face and it seemed to him that multitudes
of other persons--men and women--were pleading, with hands uplifted, that they too might see
the face. But always it was denied them, and Peter woke with a strange oppression of crushing
disappointment. Sometimes he dreamt of Scaw House and it was always the same dream. He saw
the old room with the marble clock and the cactus plant, but about it all now there was dust
and neglect. In the arm-chair, by the fire, facing the window, his father, old now and bent,
was sitting, listening and waiting. The wind howled about the place, old boards creaked, casements
rattled and his father never moved but leaning forward in his chair, watched, waited, eagerly,
passionately, for some news....

III

They were having dinner now--Bobby, Mrs. Galleon and Peter--in the studio of the Cheyne Walk
House. Outside, a sheet of stars, a dark river and the pale lamps of the street. The curtains
of the studio were still undrawn and the glow from the night beyond fell softly along the gleaming
black boards of the floor that stretched into shadow by the farther wall, over the round mahogany
table--without a cloth and shining with its own colour--deep and liquid brown,--and out to
the pictures that hung in their dull gold frames along the wall.

About Peter was a sense of ease and rest, of space that was as new to him as America was to
Columbus. He was not even now completely recovered from his Bucket Lane experiences and there
was still about him that uncertainty of life--when one sees it as though through gauze curtains--that
gives reality to the quality of dreams. Life was behind him, Life was ahead of him, but meantime
let him rest in this uncertain and beautiful country until it was time for him to go forward
again. This intangibility--walking as it were in a fog round and round the Nelson monument,
knowing it was there but never seeing it--remained with him even when practical matters were
discussed. For instance, "Reuben Hallard" was to be published in a week's time and Peter was
to receive fifty pounds in advance on the day of publication (unusually good terms for a first
novel Bobby assured him); also Bobby, through his father, thought that he could secure Peter
regular reviewing. The intention then was that Peter should remain with the Galleons as a kind
of paying guest, and so his pride would not be hurt and they could have an eye upon him during
this launching of him into London. It was fortunate, perhaps, that Alice Galleon had liked
him down there at the sea, because she was a lady who had her own way at No. 72, and she by
no means liked every one. But perhaps the Galleon baby had had more to do with everything than
any one knew, and Mrs. Galleon assured her friends that the baby's heart would most certainly
be broken if "the wild young guest" as she called Peter, were carried off.

And wild he was--of that seeing him now at dinner there in the studio there could be no doubt.
He was wearing Bobby's clothes and there was still a look of suffering in his eyes and around
his mouth, but the difference--his difference from the things about him--went deeper than that.
The large high windows of the studio with the expanse of wild and burning stars between their
black frames answered Peter's eyes as he faced them. Mrs. Galleon, as she watched him, was
reminded of other things, of other persons, of other events, that had marked his earlier life.
She glanced from Peter's eyes to Bobby's. She smiled, for on an earlier day, she had seen that
same antithesis--the gulf that is fixed between Imagination and Reality--and had known its meaning.

But for Peter, all he asked now was that he might be allowed to rest in the midst of this glorious
comfort. His evil dreams were very far away from him to-night. The food, the colour--the fruit
piled high in the silver dishes, the glittering of the great silver candelabra that stood on
the middle of the table, the deep red of the roses in the bowl at his side, the deeper red
of the Port that shone in front of Bobby and then, beneath all this, as though the table were
a coloured ship sailing on a solemn sea, the dark, deep shining floor that faded into shadow--all
this excited him so that his hands trembled.

He spoke to Mrs. Galleon:

"I wonder if you will do me a favour," he said very earnestly.

"Anything in reason," she answered, laughing back at his gravity.

"Well, don't call me Mr. Westcott any more. Because I'm going to live here and because I'm
too old a friend of Bobby's and because, finally, I hate being called Mr. Westcott by anybody,
might it be Peter?"

"Joseph calls him Peter as it is," said Bobby quite earnestly looking at his wife.

They were both so grave about it that Alice Galleon couldn't be anything but grave too. She
knew that it was really a definite appeal on behalf of both of them that she should here and
now, solemnly put her sign of approval on Peter. It was almost in the way that they waited
for her to answer, a ceremony. She was even, as she looked at them, surprised into a sudden
burst of tenderness towards them both. Bobby so solemn, such a dear, really quite an age and
yet as young as any infant in arms. Peter with forces and impulses that might lead to anything
or wreck him altogether, and yet, through it all younger even than Bobby. Oh! what an age she,
Alice Galleon, seemed to muster at the sight of their innocent trust! Did every woman feel
as old, as protecting, as tenderly indulgent, towards every man?...

"Why, of course," she answered quietly, "Peter it shall be--"

Bobby raised his port. "Here's to Peter--to Peter and 'Reuben Hallard'--overwhelming success
to both of them."

Emotion, for an instant, held them. Then quietly, they stepped back again. It was almost too
good to be true that, after all the turnings and twistings, life should have brought Peter
to this. He did not look very far ahead, he did not ask himself whether the book were likely
to be a success, whether his career would justify this beginning. If only they would let him
alone.... He did not, even to himself, name those powers. He was wrapped about with comfort,
he had friends, above all (and this he had discovered at the sea) the Galleons knew Miss Rossiter
... this last thought seemed, by the glorious clamour of it, to draw that sheet of stars down
through the window into the room, the air crackled with their splendour.

He was drawn back, down into the world again, by hearing Bobby's voice:

"The evening post and a letter for you. Peter."

He looked down and, with a sudden pang of accusing shame because he had forgotten so easily,
with also a sure knowledge that that easy escape from his other life was already forbidden
him, saw that the letter was from Stephen. He felt that their eyes were upon him as he took
the letter up and he also felt that in Alice Galleon's gaze there was a wise and tender understanding
of the things that he must be feeling. The roughness of the envelope, the rudeness of the hand-writing,
a stain in one corner that might be beer, the stamp set crookedly--these things seemed to him
like so many voices that called him back. Five minutes ago those days in Bucket Lane had belonged
to another life, now he was still there and to-morrow he must tramp out again, to-morrow....

The letter said:

    Writing here dear Peter at twelve o'clock noon, the Red Crown Inn,
    Druttledge, on the road to Exeter, a little house where thiccy
    bandy-legged man you've heard me tell about is Keeper and a good
    fellow and there's queer enough company in kitchen now to please you.
    A rough lot of fellows: and a storm coming up black over high woods
    that'll make walkin' no easy matter on a slimy road, and, dear boy,
    I've been thinkin' strange about you and 'ow you'll pull along with
    your kind friends. That nice gentleman sent a telegram as he promised
    to and says you pull finely along. Hopin' you really are better. But
    dear boy, if you find you can give me just a word on paper sayin' that
    hear there is no course for worryin' about your health, then I'm happy
    because, dear boy, you'm always in my thoughts and I love you fine and
    wish to God I could have made everything easier up along in thiccy
    Bucket Lane. I go from hear by road to Cornwall and Treliss. I'm
    expecting to find work there. Dear boy, don't forget me and see me
    again one day and write a letter. They are getting too much into their
    bellies and making the devil's own noise. There is Thunder coming the
    air is that still over the roof of the barn and the road's dead white.
    Dear Boy, I am your friend,

  STEPHEN BRANT.

The candles blew a little in the breeze from the open window and the lighted shadows ran flickering
in silver lines, along the dark floor. Peter stood holding the letter in his hand, looking
out on to the black square of sky; the lights of the barges swung down the river and he could
hear, very faintly, the straining of ropes and the turning of some mysterious wheel.

He saw Stephen--the great head, the flowing beard, the huge body--and then the inn with the
thunder coming over the hill, and then, beyond that Treliss gleaming with its tiers of lights,
above the breast of the sea. And from here, from this wide Embankment, down to that sea, there
stretched, riding over hills, bending into valleys, always white and hard and stony, the road....

For an instant he felt as though the studio, the lights, the comforts were holding him like
a prison--

"It's a letter from Stephen Brant," he said, turning back from the window. "He seems well and
happy--"

"Where is he?"

"Eating bread and cheese at an inn somewhere--on the road down to Cornwall."

IV

On the following Tuesday "Reuben Hallard" was published and on the Thursday afternoon Henry
Galleon and Clare Rossiter were to come to tea. "Reuben Hallard" arrived in a dark red cover
with a white paper label. The six copies lay on the table and looked at Peter as though he
had had nothing whatever to do with their existence. He looked down upon them, opened one of
them very tenderly, read half a page and felt that it was the best stuff he'd ever seen. He
read the rest of the page and thought that the author, whoever the creature might be, deserved,
imprisonment for writing such nonsense.

The feeling of strangeness towards it all was increased by the fact that Bobby had, with the
exception of the final proofs--these Peter had read down by the sea--done most of the proof-correcting.
It was a task for which his practical common sense and lack of all imagination admirably fitted
him. There, at any rate, "Reuben Hallard" was, ready to face all the world, to go, perhaps,
to the farthest Hebrides, to be lost in all probability, utterly lost, in the turgid flood
of contemporary fiction.

There was a dedication "To Stephen"... How surprised Stephen would be! He looked at the chapter
headings--An Old Man with a Lantern--the Road at Night.... Sun on the Western Moor--Stevenson--Tushery
all of it! How they'd tear it to bits, those papers!

He laughed to himself to think that there had once been a day when he had thought that the
thing would make his fortune! And yet--he turned the pages over tenderly--there might be something
to be said for it, Miss Monogue had thought well of it. These publishers, blase, cynical fellows,
surely believed in it.

It was fat and red and comfortable. It had a worldly, prosperous look. "Reuben Hallard and
His Adventures" ... Good Lord! What cheek.

There were five copies to give away. One between Bobby and Mrs. Galleon, one for Stephen, one
for Miss Monogue, one for Mrs. Brockett and one for Mr. Zanti. "Reuben Hallard and His Adventures,"
by Peter Westcott. They would be getting it now at the newspaper offices. The Mascot would
have a copy and the fat little chocolate consumer. It would stand with a heap of others, and
be ticked off with a heap of others, for some youth to exercise his wit upon. As to any one
buying the book? Who ever saw any one buying a six-shilling novel? It was only within the last
year or so that the old three volumes with their thirty-one-and-six had departed this life.
The publishers had assured Peter that this new six-shilling form was the thing. "Please have
you got 'Reuben Hallard' by Peter Westcott?... Thank you, I'll take it with me."

No, it was inconceivable.

There poor Reuben would lie--deserted, still-born, ever dustier and dustier whilst other stories
came pouring, pouring from endless presses, covering, crowding it down, stamping upon it, burying
it.... "Here lies 'Reuben Hallard.'..."

Poor Peter!

On Thursday, however, there was the tea-party--a Thursday never to be forgotten whilst Peter
was alive. Bobby had told him the day before that his father might be coming. "The rest of
the family will turn up for certain. They want to see you. They're always all agog for any
new thing--one of them's always playing Cabot to somebody else's Columbus. But father's uncertain.
He gets something into his head and then nothing whatever will draw him out--but I expect he'll
turn up."

The other visitor was announced to Peter on the very day.

"By the way, Peter, somebody's coming to tea this afternoon who's met you before--met you at
that odd boarding-house of yours--a Miss Rossiter. Clare's an old friend of ours. I told you
down at the sea about her and you said you remembered meeting her."

"Remembered meeting her!" Did Dante remember meeting Beatrice--did Petrarch remember Laura?
Did Keats forget his Fanny Brawne? Did Richard Feverel forget his Lucy?

On a level with these high-thinking gentlemen was Peter, disguising his emotions from Alice's
sharp eyes but silent, breathless, wanting some other place than that high studio in which
to breathe. "Yes--she came to tea once with a Miss Monogue there--I liked her...."

He was not there, but rather on some height alone with her and their hands touched over a photograph.
"The Man on the Lion." There was something worthy of his feeling for her!

Meanwhile, for the first part of the afternoon one must put up with the Galleon family. Had
Peter been sufficiently calm and sensible these appendages to a great author would have been
worth his attention. Behold them in relation to "Henry Lessingham," soaked in the works, bearing
on their backs the whole Edition de Luxe, decking themselves with the little odds and ends
of literary finery that they had picked up, bursting with the good-nature of assured self-consequence--harmless,
foolish, comfortable. Mrs. Galleon was massive with a large flat face that jumped suddenly
into expression when one least expected it. There was a great deal of silk about her, much
leisurely movement and her tactics were silence and a slow, significant smile--these she always
contributed to any conversation that was really beyond her. Had she not, during many years
of her life, been married to a genius she would have been an intensely slow-moving but adequate
housekeeper--as it was, her size and her silence enabled her to keep her place at many literary
dinners. Peter, watching her, was consumed with wonder that Henry Galleon could ever have married
her and understood that Bobby was the child of both his parents. Bobby had a brother and sister--Percival
and Millicent. Percival was twenty-five and had written two novels that were considered promising
by those who did not know that he was the son of his father. He was slim and dark with a black
thread of a moustache and rather fine white fingers. His clothes were very well cut but his
appearance was a little too elaborately simple. His sister, a girl of about eighteen, was slim
and dark also; she had the eager appearance of one who has heard just enough to make her very
anxious to hear a great deal more.

One felt that she did not want to miss anything, but probably her determination to be her father's
daughter would prevent her from becoming very valuable or intelligent.

Finally it was strange that Bobby had so completely escaped the shadow of his father's mantle.
These people were intended, of course, to be the background of Peter's afternoon and it was
therefore more than annoying that that was the very last thing that they were. Millicent and
Percival made a ball and then flung it backwards and forwards throughout the affair. Their
mother watched them with appreciation and Alice Galleon, who knew them, gave them tea and cake
and let them have their way. Into the midst of this Henry Galleon came--a little, round, fat
man with a face like a map, the body of Napoleon and a trot round the room like a very amiable
pony, eyes that saw everything, understood everything, and forgave everything, a brown buff
waistcoat with gilt buttons, white spats and a voice that rolled and roared ... he was the
tenderest, most alarming person in any kind of a world. He was so gentle that any sparrow would
trust him implicitly and so terrific that an army would most certainly fly from before him.
He ate tea-cake, smiled and shook hands with Peter, listened for half an hour to the spirited
conversation of his two children and trotted away again, leaving behind him an atmosphere of
gentle politeness and an amazing savoir-faire that one saw his children struggling to catch.
They finally gave it up about half-past five and retreated, pressing Peter to pay them a call
at the earliest opportunity.

This was positively all that Peter saw, on this occasion, of Henry Galleon. It was quite enough
to give him a great deal to think about, but it could scarcely be called a meeting.

At quarter to six when Peter was in despair and Alice Galleon had ordered the tea-things to
be taken away Clare Rossiter rushed in. She stood a whirlwind of flying colours in the middle
of the Studio now sinking into twilight. "Alice dear, I am most terribly sorry but mother would
stay. I couldn't get her to leave and it was all so awkward. How do you do, Mr. Westcott? Do
you remember--we met at Treliss--and now I must rush back this very minute. We are dining at
seven before the Opera, and father wants that music you promised him--the Brahms thing. Oh!
is it upstairs? Well, if you don't mind...."

Alice Galleon left them together. Peter could say nothing at all. He stood there, shifting
from foot to foot, white, absolutely tongue-tied.

She felt his embarrassment and struggled.

"I hear that you've been very ill, Mr. Westcott. I'm so dreadfully sorry and I do hope that
you're better?"

He muttered something.

"Your book is out, isn't it? 'Reuben Hallard' is the name. I must get father to put it down
on his list. One's first books must be so dreadfully exciting--and so alarming ... the reviews
and everything--what is it about?"

He murmured "Cornwall."

"Cornwall? How delightful! I was only there once. Mullion. Do you know Mullion?" She struggled
along. The pain that had begun in his heart was now at his throat--his throat was full of spiders'
webs. He could scarcely see her in the dark but her pale blue dress and her dark eyes and her
beautiful white hands--her little figure danced against the dark, shining floor like a fairy's.

He heard her sigh of relief at Alice Galleon's return.

"Oh! thank you, dear, so much. Good-bye, Mr. Westcott--I shall read the book."

She was gone.

"Lights! Lights!" cried Alice Galleon. "How provoking of her not to come to tea properly. Well,
Peter? How was it all?"

He was guilty of abominable rudeness.

He burst from the room without a word and banged, desperately, the door behind him. At this
time of day it all seems ancient and distant enough; the book has been praised, blamed, lifted
up, hurled down a thousand times, and has finally been discovered to be a book of promise,
of natural talent, with a great deal of crudity and melodrama and a little beauty. It does
not stand of course in comparison with Peter Westcott's later period and yet it has a note
that his hand never captured afterwards. How incredibly bad it is in places, the Datchett incidents,
with their flames and screams and murder in the dark, sufficiently betray: how fine it can
be such a delight as The Cherry Orchard chapter shows, and perhaps the very badness of the
crudities helped in its popularity, for there was nothing more remarkable about it than the
fashion in which it captured every class of reader. But its success, in reality, was a result
of the exact moment of its appearance. Had Peter waited a thousand years he could not possibly
have chosen a time more favourable. It was that moment in literary history, when the world
had had enough of lilies and was turning, with relief, to artichokes. There was a periodical
of this time entitled The Green Volume. This appeared somewhere about 1890 and it brought with
it a band of young men and women who were exceedingly clever, saw the quaintness of life before
its reality and stood on tiptoe in order to observe things that were really growing quite close
to the ground. This quarterly produced some very admirable work; its contributors were all,
for a year or two, as clever as they were--young and as cynical as either. The world was dressed
in a powder puff and danced beneath Chinese lanterns and was as wicked as it could be in artificial
rose-gardens. It was all great fun for a year or two....

Then The Green Volume died, people began to whisper about slums and drainage, and Swedish drill
for ten minutes every morning was considered an admirable thing. On the edge of this new wave
came "Reuben Hallard," combining as it did a certain amount of affectation with a good deal
of naked truth, and having the rocks of Cornwall as well as its primroses for its background.
It also told a story with a beginning to it and an end to it, and it contained the beautiful
character of Mrs. Poveret, a character that was undoubtedly inspired by that afternoon that
Peter had with his mother..

In addition to all this it must be remembered that the world was entirely unprepared for the
book's arrival. It had been in no fashion heralded and until a long review appeared in The
Daily Globe no one noticed it in any way. Then the thing really began. The reviewers were glad
to find something in a dead season, about which a column or two might possibly be written;
the general public was delighted to discover a novel that was considered by good judges to
be literature and that, nevertheless, had as good a story as though it weren't--its faults
were many and some of its virtues accidental, but it certainly deserved success as thoroughly
as did most of its contemporaries. Edition followed edition and "Reuben Hallard" was the novel
of the spring of 1896.

The effect of all this upon Peter may easily be imagined. It came to him first, with those
early reviews and an encouraging letter from the publishers, as something that did not belong
to him at all, then after a month or so it belonged to him so completely that he felt as though
he had been used to it all his life. Then slowly, as the weeks passed and the success continued,
he knew that the publication of this book had changed the course of his life. Letters from
agents and publishers asking for his next novel, letters from America, letters from unknown
readers, all these things showed him that he could look now towards countries that had not,
hitherto, been enclosed by his horizon. He breathed another air.

And yet he was astonishingly simple about it all--very young and very naive. The two things
that he felt about it were, first, that it would please very much his friends--Bobby and his
wife, Mrs. Brockett, Norah Monogue, Mr. Zanti, Herr Gottfried and, above all, Stephen; and
secondly, that all those early years in Cornwall--the beatings, his mother, Scaw House, even
Dawson's--had been of use to him. One remembers those extraordinary chapters concerning Reuben
and his father--here Peter had, for the first time, allowed some expression of his attitude
to it all to escape him.

He felt indeed as though the success of the book placed for a moment all that other life in
the background--really away from him. For the first time since he left Brockett's he was free
from a strange feeling of apprehension.... Scaw House was hidden.

He gave himself up to glorious life. He plunged into it....

II

He stepped, at first timidly, into literary London. It was, at first sight, alarming enough
because it seemed to consist, so largely and so stridently, of the opposite sex. Bobby would
have had Peter avoid it altogether. "There are some young idiots," he said, "who go about to
these literary tea-parties. They've just written a line or two somewhere or other, and they
go curving and bending all over the place. Young Tony Gale and young Robin Trojan and my young
ass of a brother ... don't want you to join that lot, Peter, my boy. The women like to have
'em of course, they're useful for handing the cake about but that's all there is to it ...
keep out of it."

But Peter had not had so many friends during the early part of his life that he could afford
to do without possible ones now. He wanted indeed just as many as he could grasp. The comfort
and happiness of his life with Bobby, the success of the book, the opening of a career in front
of him, these things had made of him another creature. He had grown ten years younger; his
cheeks were bright, his eye clear, his step buoyant. He moved now as though he loved his fellow
creatures. One felt, on his entrance into a room, that the air was clearer, and that one was
in the company of a human being who found the world, quite honestly and naturally, a delightful
place. This was the first effect that success had upon Peter.

And indeed they met him--all of them--with open arms. They saw in him that burning flame that
those who have been for the first time admitted into the freemasonry of their Art must ever
show. Afterwards he would be accustomed to that country, would know its roads and hills and
cities and would be perhaps disappointed that they were neither as holy nor as eternal as he
had once imagined them to be--now he stood on the hill's edge and looked down into a golden
landscape whose bounds he could not discern. But they met him too on the personal side. The
fact that he had been found starving in a London garret was of itself a wonderful thing--then
he had in his manner a rough, awkward charm that flattered them with his youth and inexperience.
He was impetuous and confidential and then suddenly reserved and constrained. But, above it
all, it was evident that he wanted friendliness and good fellowship. He took every one at the
value that they offered to him. He first encouraged them to be at their most human and then
convinced them that that was their natural character. He lighted every one's lamp at the flame
of his own implicit faith.

These ladies and gentlemen put very plainly before him the business side of his profession.
Their conversation was all of agents, publishers, the sums that one of their number obtained
and how lucky to get so much so soon, and the sums that another of their number did not obtain
and what a shame it was that such good work was rewarded by so little. It was all--this conversation--in
the most generous strain. Jealousy never raised its head. They read--these precious people--the
works of one another with an eager praise and a tender condemnation delightful to see. It was
a warm bustling society that received Peter.

These tea-parties and fireside discussions had not, perhaps, been always so friendly and large-hearted
but in the time when Peter first encountered them they were influenced and moulded by a very
remarkable woman--a woman who succeeded in combining humour, common sense and imagination in
admirably adjusted qualities. Her humour made her tolerant, her common sense made her wise,
and her imagination made her tender--her name was Mrs. Launce.

She was short and broad, with large blue eyes that always, if one watched them, showed her
thoughts and dispositions. Some people make of their faces a disguise, others use them as a
revelation--the result to the observer is very much the same in either case. But with Mrs.
Launce there was no definite attempt at either one thing or the other--she was so busily engaged
in the matter in hand, so absorbed and interested, that the things that her face might be doing
never occurred to her. Her hair was drawn back and parted down the middle. She liked to wear
little straw coal-scuttle bonnets; she was very fond of blue silk, and her frocks had an inclination
to trail. On her mother's side she was French and on her father's English; from her mother
she got the technique of her stories, the light-hearted boldness of her conversation and her
extraordinary devotion to her family. She was always something of a puzzle to English women
because she was a great deal more domestic than most of them and yet bristled with theories
about morals and life in general that had nothing whatever in common with domesticity. Some
one once said of her that "she was a hot water bottle playing at being a bomb...."

She belonged to all the London worlds, although she found perhaps especial pleasure in the
society of her fellow writers. This was largely because she loved, beyond everything else,
the business side of her profession. There was nothing at all that she did not know about the
publishing and distribution of a novel. Her capacity for remembering other people's prices
was prodigious and she managed her agent and her publisher with a deftness that left them gasping.
There were very few persons in her world who had not, at one time or another, poured their
troubles into her ear. She had that gift, valuable in life beyond all others, of giving herself
up entirely to the person with whom she was talking. When the time came to give advice the
combination of her common sense and her tenderness made her invaluable. There was no crime
black enough, no desertion, no cruelty horrible enough to outspeed her pity. She hated and
understood the sin and loved and comforted the sinner. With a wide and accurate knowledge of
humanity she combined a deep spiritual belief in the goodness of God.

Everything, however horrible, interested her ... she adored life.

This little person in the straw bonnet and the blue dress gave Peter something that he had
never known before--she mothered him. He sat next to her at some dinner-party and she asked
him to come and have tea with her. She lived in a little street in Westminster in a tiny house
that had her children on the top floor, a beautiful copy of the Mona Lisa and a very untidy
writing-table on the second, and a little round hall and a tiny dining-room on the ground floor.
Her husband and her family--including an adorable child of two--were all as amiable as possible.

Peter told her most things on the first day that he had tea with her and everything on the
second. He told her about his boyhood--Treliss, Scaw House, his father, Stephen. He told her
about Brockett's and Bucket Lane. He told her, finally, about Clare Rossiter.

He always remembered one thing that she said at this time. They were sitting at her open window
looking down into the blue evening that is in Westminster quieter even than it is at Chelsea.
Behind the faint green cloud of trees the Abbey's huge black pile soared into space.

"You think you've made a tremendous break?" she said.

"Yes--this is an entirely new life--new in every way. I seem too to be set amongst an entirely
new crowd of people. The division seems to me sharper every day. I believe I've left it all
behind."

She looked at him sharply. "You're afraid of all that earlier time," she said.

"Yes, I am."

"It made you write 'Reuben Hallard.' Perhaps this life here in London..."

"It's safer," he caught her up.

"Don't," she answered him very gravely, "play for safety. It's the most dangerous thing in
the world." She paused for a moment and then added: "But probably they won't let you alone."

"I hope to God they will," he cried.

III

He saw Clare Rossiter twice during this time and, on each occasion, it seemed to him that she
was trying to make up to him for his awkwardness at their first meeting. On the first of these
two occasions she had only a few words with him, but there was a note in her voice that he
fancied, wildly, unreasonably, was different from the tone that she used to other people. She
looked so beautiful with her golden hair coiled above her head. It was the most wonderful gold
that he had ever seen. He could only, in his excitement, think of marmalade and that was a
sticky comparison. "The Lady with the Marmalade Hair"--how monstrous! but that did convey the
colour. Her eyes seemed darker now than they had been before and her cheeks whiter. The curve
of her neck was so wonderful that it hurt him physically. He wanted so terribly to kiss her
just beneath her ear. He saw how he would do it, and that he would have to move away some of
the shiny hair that strayed like sunlight across the white skin.

She did not seem to him quite so tiny when she smiled; it was exactly as water ripples when
the sun suddenly bursts dark clouds. He had a thousand comparisons for her, and then sometimes
she would be, as it were, caught up into a cloud and he would only see a general radiance and
be blinded by the light.

He wished very much that he could think of something else--something other than marmalade--that
had that quality of gold. He often imagined what it would be like when she let it all down--like
a forest of autumn trees--no, that spoke of decay--like the sunlight on sand towards evening--like
the fires of Walhalla in the last act of Gotterdaemmerung--like the lights of some harbour
seen from the farther shore--like clouds that are ready to burst with evening sunlight. Perhaps,
after all, amber was the nearest....

"Peter, ask Miss Rossiter if she will have some more tea...." Oh! What a fool he is! What an
absolute ass!

On the second of these two meetings she had read "Reuben Hallard." She loved it! She thought
it astounding! The most wonderful first novel she had ever read. How had he been able to make
one feel Cornwall so? She had been once to Cornwall, to Mullion and it had been just like that!
Those rocks! it was like a poem! And then so exciting!

She had not been able to put it down for a single minute. "Mother was furious with me because
there I sat until I don't know how early in the morning reading it! Oh! Mr. Westcott, how wonderful
to write like that !"

Her praise inflamed him like wine. He looked at her with exultation.

"Oh! you feel like that!" he said, drawing a great breath, "I did want you to like it so!"
He was enraptured--the world was heaven! He did not realise that some young woman at a tea-party
the day before had said precisely these same things and he had said: "Of all the affected idiots!"...

IV

This might all be termed a period of preparation--that period was fixed for Peter with its
sign and seal on a certain evening of spring when an enormous orange moon was in the sky, scents
were in all the Chelsea gardens, and the Chelsea streets were like glass in the silver luminous
light.

Peter was walking home after a party at the Rossiters'. It was the first time that he had been
invited to their house and it had been a great success. Dr. Rossiter was a little round fat
man with snow-white hair, red cheeks and twinkling eyes. He cured his patients and irritated
his relations by his good temper. Mrs. Rossiter, Peter thought, had a great resemblance to
Bobby's mother, Mrs. Galleon, senior. They were, both of them, massive and phlegmatic. They
had both acquired that solemn dignity that comes of living up to one's husband's reputation.
They both looked on their families--Mrs. Rossiter on Clare and Mrs. Galleon on Millicent, Percival
and Bobby--with curiosity, tolerance and a mild soft of wonder. They were both massively happy
and completely unimaginative. They were, indeed, old friends, having been at school together,
they were Emma and Jane to one another and Mrs. Rossiter could never forget that Mrs. Galleon
came to school two years after herself and was therefore junior still; whilst Mrs. Galleon
had stayed two years longer than Mrs. Rossiter, and was a power there when Mrs. Rossiter was
completely forgotten; they were fond of each other as long as they were allowed to patronise
one another.

Peter had spent a delicious evening. He had had half an hour in the garden with Clare. They
had spoken in an undertone. He had told her his ambitions, she had told him her aspirations.
Some one had sung in the garden and there had been one wonderful moment when Peter had touched
her hand and she had not taken it away. At last they were both silent and the garden flowed
about them, on every side of them, with the notes and threads that can only be heard at night.

Mrs. Rossiter, heavily and solemnly, brought her daughter a shawl. There was some one to whom
she would like to introduce Mr. Westcott. Would he mind? Eden was robbed of its glories....

But he had had enough. He thought at one moment that already she was beginning to care for
him, and at another, that a lover's fancy made signs out of the wind and portents out of the
running water.

But he was happy with a mighty exultation, and then, as he turned down on to the Embankment
and felt the breeze from the river as it came towards him, he met Henry Galleon.

The old man, in an enormous hat that was like a top hat only round at the brim and brown in
colour, was trotting home. He saw Peter and stopped. He spoke to him in his slow tremendous
voice and the words seemed to go on after they had left him, rolling along the Embankment.

"I am glad to see you, Mr. Westcott. I have thought that I would like to have a chat with you.
I have just finished your book."

This was indeed tremendous--that Henry Galleon should have read "Reuben Hallard." Peter trembled
all over.

"I wonder whether you would care to come and have a chat with me. I have some things you might
care to see. What time like the present? It is early hours yet and you will be doing an old
man who sleeps only poorly a kindness."

What a night of nights! Peter, trembling with excitement, felt Henry Galleon put his arm in
his, felt the weight of the great man's body. They walked slowly along and the moon and the
stars and the lights on the river and the early little leaves in the trees and the stones of
the houses and the little "tish-tish" of the water against the Embankment seemed to say--"Oh!
Peter Westcott's going to have a chat with Henry Galleon! Did you ever hear such a thing!"

Peter was sorry that his Embankment was deserted and that there was no one to see them go into
the house together. He drew a great breath as the door closed behind them. The house was large
and dark and mysterious. The rest of the family were still out at some party. Henry Galleon
drew Peter into his own especial quarters and soon they were sitting in a lofty library, its
walls covered with books that stretched to the ceiling. Peter meanwhile buried in a huge arm-chair
and feeling that Henry Galleon's eyes were piercing him through and through.

The old man talked for some time about other things--talked wonderfully about the great ones
of the earth whom he had known, the great things that he had seen. It was amazing to Peter
to hear the gods of his world alluded to as "poor old S---- poor fellow!... Yes, indeed. I
remember his coming into breakfast one day..." or "You were asking about T---- Old Wallie,
as we used to call him--poor fellow, poor fellow--we lived together in rooms for some time.
That was before I married--and perilously, dangerously--I might almost say magnificently near
starvation we were too...."

Peter already inflamed with that earlier half-hour in the garden now breathed a portentous
air. He was with the Gods ... there on the Olympian heights he drank with them, he sang songs
with them, with mighty voices they applauded "Reuben Hallard." He drank in his excitement many
whiskies and sodas and soon the white room with its books was like the inside of a golden shell.
The old man opposite him grew in size--his face was ever larger and larger, his shirt front
bulged and bulged--his hand raised to emphasise some point was tremendous as the hand of a
God. Peter felt that he himself was growing smaller and smaller, would soon, in the depths
of that mighty arm-chair disappear altogether but that opposite him two mighty burning eyes
held him. And always like thunder the voice rolled on.... "My son tells me that this book of
yours is a success ... that they are emptying their purses to fill yours. That may be a dangerous
thing for you. I have read your book, it has many faults; it is not written at all--it is loose
and lacking in all construction. You know nothing, as yet, about life--you do not know what
to use or what to reject. But the Spirit is there, the right Spirit. It is a little flame--it
will be very easily quenched and nothing can kill it so easily as success--guard it, my son,
guard it."

Peter felt as Siegfried must have felt when confronted by Wotan.

His poor little book was dwindling now before his eyes. He was conscious of a great despair.
How useless of him to attempt so impossible a task....

The voice rolled on:

"I am an old man now and only twice before in my time nave I seen that spirit in a young man's
eyes. You may remember now an old man's words--for I would urge you, I would implore you to
keep nothing before you but the one thing that can bring Life into Art. I will not speak to
you of the sacredness of your calling. Many will laugh at you and tell you that it is pretentious
to name it so. Others will come to you and will advise how this is to be done and that is to
be done. Others will talk to you of schools, they will tell you that once it was in that manner
and that now it is in this manner. Some will tell you that you have no style--others will tell
you that you have too much. Some again will tempt you with money and money is not to be despised.
Again you will be tested with photographs and paragraphs, with lectures and public dinners....
Worst of all there will come to you terrible hours when you yourself know of a sure certainty
that your work is worthless. In your middle age a great barrenness will come upon you. You
have been a little teller of little tales, and on every side of you there will be others who
have striven for other prizes and have won them. Sitting alone in your room with your poor
strands of coloured silk that had once been intended to make so beautiful a pattern, poor boy,
you will know that you have failed. That will be a very dreadful hour--the only power that
can meet it is a blind and deaf courage. Courage is the only thing that we are here to show
... the hour will pass."

The old man paused. There was a silence. Then he said very slowly as though he were drawing
in front of him the earliest histories of his own past life....

"Against all these temptations, against these voices of the World and the Flesh, against the
glory of power and the swinging hammer of success, you, sitting quietly in your room, must
remember that a great charge has been given you, that you are here for one thing and one thing
only ... to listen. The whole duty of Art is listening for the voice of God.

"I am not speaking in phrases. I am not pressing upon you any sensational discoveries, but
here at the end of my long life, I, with all the things that I meant to do and have failed
to do heavy upon me, can give you only this one word. I have hurried, I have scrambled, I have
fought and cursed and striven, but as an Artist only those hours that I have spent listening,
waiting, have been my real life.

"So it must be with you. You are here to listen. Never mind if they tell you that story-telling
is a cheap thing, a popular thing, a mean thing. It is the instrument that is given to you
and if, when you come to die you know that, for brief moments, you have heard, and that what
you have heard you have written, Life has been justified.

"Nothing else can console you, nothing else can comfort you. There must be restraint, austerity,
discipline--words must come to you easily but only because life has come to you with so great
a pain ... the Artist's life is the harshest that God can give to a man. Make no mistake about
that. Fortitude is the artist's only weapon of defence...."

Henry Galleon came over to Peter's chair and put his hand upon the boy's arm.

"I am at the end of my work. I have done what I can. You are at the beginning of yours. You
will do what you can. I wish you good fortune."

A vision came to Peter. Through the open window, against the sheet of stars, gigantic, was
the Rider on the Lion.

He could not see the Rider's face.

A great exultation inflamed him.

At that instant he was stripped bare. His history, the people whom he knew, the things that
he had done, they were all as though they had never been.

His soul was, for that great moment, naked and alone before God.

"The whole duty of Art is listening for the voice of God...."

A sound, as though it came to him from another world, broke into the room.

There were voices and steps on the stairs.

"Ah, they are back from their party," Henry Galleon said, trotting happily to the door. "Come
up and have a chat with my wife, Westcott, before going to bed."

CHAPTER III

THE ENCOUNTER

I

Peter was now the young man of the moment. He took this elevation with frank delight, was encouraged
by it, gave it all rather more, perhaps, than its actual value, began a new novel, "The Stone
House," started weekly reviewing on The Interpreter and yielded himself up entirely to Clare
Rossiter.

He had been in love with her ever since that first day at Norah Monogue's, but the way that
she gradually now absorbed him was like nothing so much as the slow covering of the rocks and
the sand by the incoming tide. At first, in those days at Brockett's, she had seemed to him
something mysterious, intangible, holy. But after that meeting in Cheyne Walk he knew her for
a prize that some fortunate man might, one day, win. He did not, for an instant, suppose that
he could ever be that one, but the mere imagined picture of what some other would one day have,
sent the blood rushing through him. Her holiness for him was still intact but for another there
would be human, earthly wonders.

Then, curiously, as he met her more often and knew her better there came a certain easy, almost
casual, intercourse. One Clare Rossiter still reigned amongst the clouds, but there was now
too another easy, fascinating, humorous creature who treated him almost like Alice Galleon
herself--laughed at him, teased him, provoked him ... suddenly, like a shadow across a screen,
would slip away; and he be on his knees again before something that was only to be worshipped.

These two shapes of her crossed and were confused and again were parted. His thoughts were
first worshipping in heaven, then dwelling with delight on witty, charming things that she
had said.

For that man, when he came, there would be a most wonderful treasure.

Peter now lost his appetite. He could not sleep at night. He would slip out of his room, cross
the silent Chelsea streets and watch her dark window. He cultivated Mrs. Rossiter and that
massive and complacent lady took it entirely to herself. Indeed, nothing, at this time was
more remarkable than the little stir that Peter's devotion caused. It was perhaps that Clare
had always had a cloud of young men about her, perhaps that Peter was thought to be having
too wonderful a time, just now, to be falling in love as well--that would be piling Life on
to Life! ... no one could live under it.

Besides Mrs. Rossiter liked him ... he was amazing, you see ... people said....

And the next stage arrived.

One May evening, at the Galleons' house, when some one was playing the piano and all the world
seemed to be sitting in corners Clare's hand lay suddenly against his. The smooth outer curve
of his hand lay against her palm. Their little fingers touched. Sheets of fire rose, inflamed
him and fell ... rose again and fell. His hand began to shake, her hand began to shake. He
heard, a thousand miles away, some one singing about "the morn."

Their hands parted. She rose and slowly, her white dress and red-gold hair flung against a
background that seemed to him black and infinite, crossed the room.

That trembling of her hand had maddened him. It suddenly showed him that he--as well as another--might
run the race for her. Everything that he had ever done or been--his sentiments, his grossnesses,
his restraints and his rebellions--were now concerned in this pursuit. No other human being--Stephen,
Norah Monogue, Bobby, Alice--now had any interest for him. His reviews were written he knew
not how, the editions of "Reuben Hallard" might run into the gross for all he cared, "The Stone
House" lay neglected.

And he avoided seeing her. He was afraid to spoil that moment when her hand had shaken at the
touch of his, and yet he was tormented by the longing for a new meeting that might provide
some new amazement. Perhaps he would hold her hand and feel the shadow of her body bending
towards his own! And his heart stopped beating; and he was suddenly cold with a splendid terror.

Then he did meet her again and had nothing to say. It seemed to him that she was frightened.
He came home that day in a cold fog of miserable despair. A letter from his publishers informing
him of a tenth edition was of ironical unimportance. He lay awake all night restlessly unhappy.

For the first time for many months the old shadows stole out into the room--the black bulk
of Scaw House--the trees, the windows, his father....

And to him, tossing on his bed there came thoughts of a certain house in the town. He could
get up and dress now--a cab would soon take him there ... in the early morning he could slink back.

Clare did not want him! A fool to fancy that she had ever cared.

He, Peter Westcott, nobody! Why then should he not have his adventures, he still so young and
vigorous? He would go to that house....

And then, almost reluctantly, as he sat up in bed and watched the grey, shadowy walls, Stephen
seemed to be visible to him--Stephen, walking the road, starting early in the fresh air when
the light was breaking and the scent of the grass was cool and filled with dew.

He would write to Stephen in the morning--he lay down and went to sleep.

By this time, meanwhile, Alice and Bobby had noticed. Alice, indeed, had a number of young
men over whose emotions she kept guard and Peter had become, during these weeks, very valuable
to her....

She did not want him to marry anybody--especially she did not want him to marry Clare. At breakfast,
past Peter's ears, as though he were not concerned at all, she talked to Bobby--

"Really, Dr. Rossiter spoils Clare beyond all bounds--"

"Um?"

"He's taking her with him up to Glasgow to that Congress thing. He knows perfectly well that
she ought to stay with Mrs. Rossiter--and so does she."

"Well, it's no business of ours--" Bobby's usual tolerant complacency.

"It is. Clare might be a fine creature if she didn't let herself be spoiled in this way. She's
perpetually selfish and she ought to be told so."

"We're all perpetually selfish," said Bobby who began to be sorry for Peter.

"Oh! no, we're not. I'm very fond of Clare but I don't envy the man who marries her. There's
no one in the world more delightful when she has her own way and things go smoothly, but they've
wrapped her up in cotton wool to such an extent that she simply doesn't know how to live out
of it. She's positively terrified of Life."

This, as Alice had intended, was too much for Peter. He burst out--

"I think Miss Rossiter's the pluckiest girl I've ever met. She's afraid of nothing."

"Except of being uncomfortable," Alice retorted. "That frightens her into fits. Make her uncomfortable,
Peter, and you'll see--"

And, red in the face, Peter answered--"I don't think you ought to talk of any one who's so
fond of you behind her back in that way--"

"Oh! I say just the same to her face. I'm always telling her these things and she always agrees
and then's just as selfish as ever. That absurd little father of hers has spoilt her!"

Spoilt! Clare spoilt! Peter smiled darkly. Alice Galleon--delightful woman though she was,
of course couldn't endure that another woman should receive such praise--Jealousy! Ah!...

And the aged and weighty author of "Reuben Hallard," to whom the world was naturally an open
book, and life known to its foundations, nodded to himself. How people, intelligent enough
in other ways, could be so short-sighted!

Afterwards, when they were alone, Bobby took him in hand--

"You're in love with Clare Rossiter, Peter," he said.

"Yes, I am," Peter answered defiantly.

"But you've known her so short a time!"

"What's that to do with it?"

"Oh, nothing, of course. But do you think you're the sort of people likely to get on?"

"Really, Bobby, I don't--"

"I know--none of my business--quite true. But you see I've known Clare pretty well all my life
and you're the best friend I've got, so you might allow me to take an interest."

"Well, say what you like."

"Nothing to say except that Clare isn't altogether an easy problem. You're like all the other
fellows I know--think because Clare's got red hair and laughs easily she's a goddess--she isn't,
not a bit! She's got magnificent qualities and one day perhaps, when she's had a thoroughly
bad time, she'll show one the kind of things she's made of. But she's an only child, she's
been spoilt all her life and the moment she begins to be unhappy she's impossible."

"She shan't ever be unhappy if I can help it!" muttered Peter fiercely.

Bobby laughed. "You'll do your best of course, but are you the sort of man for her? She wants
some one who'll give her every kind of comfort, moral, physical and intellectual. She wants
somebody who'll accept her enthusiasms as genuine intelligence. You'll find her out intellectually
in a week. Then she wants some one who'll give her his whole attention. You think now that
you will but you won't--you can't--you're not made that way. By temperament and trade you're
an artist. She thinks, at the moment, that an artist would suit her very well; but, in reality,
my boy, he's the very last sort of person she ought to marry."

Peter caught at Bobby's words. "Do you really think she cares about me?"

"She's interested. Clare spends her days in successive enthusiasms. She's always being enthusiastic--dreadful
disillusions in between the heights. Mind you, there's another side of Clare--a splendid side,
but it wants very careful management and I don't know, Peter, that you're exactly the sort
of person--"

"Thanks very much," said Peter grimly.

"No, but you're not--you don't, in the least, see her as she is, and she doesn't see you as
you are--hence these misguided attempts on my part to show you one another."

But Peter had not been listening.

"Do you really think," he muttered, "that she cares about me?"

Bobby looked at him, laughed and shrugged his shoulders in despair.

"Ah! I see--it's no use," he said, "poor dear Peter--well, I wish you luck!"

And that was the end as far as Alice and Bobby were concerned. They never alluded to it again
and indeed now seemed to favour meetings between Clare and Peter.

And now, through these wonderful Spring weeks, these two were continually together. The Galleons
had, at first, been inclined to consider Clare's obvious preference for Peter as the simplest
desire to be part of a general rather heady enthusiasm. "Clare loves little movements...."
And Peter, throughout this Spring was a little movement. The weeks went on, and Clare was not
herself--silent, absorbed, almost morose. One day she asked Alice Galleon a number of questions
about Peter, and, after that, resolutely avoided speaking of him. "Of course," Alice said to
Bobby--"Dr. Rossiter will let her marry any one she likes. She'll have plenty of money and
Peter's going to have a great career. After all it may be the best thing."

Bobby shook his head. "They're both egoists," he said. "Peter because he's never had anything
he wanted and Clare because she's always had everything ... it won't do."

But, after all, when May gave place to burning June, Bobby and Alice were inevitably drawn
into that romance. They yielded to an atmosphere that both, by temperament, were too sentimental
to resist.

Nearer and nearer was coming that intoxicating moment of Peter's final plunge, and Clare--beautiful,
these weeks, with all the excitement of the wonderful episode--saw him as a young god who had
leapt upon a submissive London and conquered it.

Mrs. Rossiter and Mrs. Galleon played waiting chorus. Mrs. Launce from her little house in
Westminster, was, as usual, glowing with a piece of other people's happiness. Bobby and Alice
had surrendered to the atmosphere. All were, of course, silent--until the word is spoken no
movement must be made--the little god is so easily alarmed.

At last towards the close of this hot June, Mrs. Launce proposed to Clare a week-end at her
Sussex cottage by the sea. She also told Peter that she could put him up if he chose to come
down at the same time. What could be more delightful in this weather?

"Dear Clare, only the tiniest cottage as you know--no one else unless Peter Westcott happens
to come down--I suggested it, and you can see the sea from your window and there's a common
and a donkey, and you can roll in the sand--" Mrs. Launce, when she was very happy betrayed
her French descent by the delightful way that she rolled her r's.

"Not a soul anywhere near--we can bathe all day."

Clare would love to come so strangely enough would Peter--"The 5.30 train then--Saturday...."
Dear Mrs. Launce in her bonnet and blue silk! Clare had never thought her so entirely delightful!

Peter, of course, plainly understood the things that dear Mrs. Launce intended. His confidence
in her had been, in no way, misplaced--she loved a wedding and was the only person in the world
who could bring to its making so fine a compound of sentiment and common sense. She frankly
loved it all and though, at the moment, occupied with the work of at least a dozen women, and
with a family that needed her most earnest care, she hastened to assist the Idyll.

Peter's own feelings were curiously confused. He was going to propose to Clare; and now he
seemed to face, suddenly, the change that this must mean to him. Those earlier months, when
it had been pursuit with no certainty of capture had only shown him one thing desirable--Clare.
But now that he was face to face with it he was frightened--what did he know of women?...

On the morning they were to go down, he sat in his room, this terrible question confronting
him. No, he knew nothing about women! He had left his heroine very much alone in "Reuben Hallard"
and those occasions when he had been obliged to bring her on the stage had not been too successful.
He knew nothing about women!

There would be things--a great many--as a married man, he would have to change. Sometimes he
was moody for days together and wanted to see no one. Sometimes he was so completely absorbed
by his work that the real people around him were shadows and wraiths. These moods must vanish.
Clare must always find him ready and cheerful and happy.

A dreadful sense of inadequacy weighed upon Peter. And then at the concrete fact of her actual
presence, at the thought of her standing there, waiting for him, wanting him, his doubts left
him and he was wildly, madly happy.

And yet, before he left the room, his glance fell on his writing-table. White against its shining
surface lay a paper and on the top sheet, written: "The Stone House"; a Novel; Chapter II.
Months ago--he had not touched it all these last weeks, and, at this moment he felt he would
never write anything again. He turned away with a little movement of irritation....

That morning he went formally to Dr. Rossiter. The little man received him, smiling.

"I want to marry your daughter, sir," said Peter.

"You're very young," said the Doctor.

"Twenty-six," said Peter.

"Well, if she'll have you I won't stand in your way--"

Peter took the 5.30 train....

II

Mrs. Launce, on Sunday afternoon, from the door of her cottage, watched them both strike across
the common towards the sea--Peter, "stocky," walking as though no force on earth could upset
his self-possession and sturdy balance, Clare with her little body and easy movement meant
for this air and sea and springing turf. Mrs. Launce having three magnificent children of her
own believed in the science of Eugenics heart and soul. Here, before her eyes, was the right
and proper Union--talk about souls and spirit and temperament--important enough for the immediate
Two--but give Nature flesh and bones, with cleanliness and a good straight stock to work on,
and see what She will do!

Mrs. Launce went into the cottage again and prepared herself for an announcement at tea-time.
She wiped her eyes before she settled down to her work. Loving both of them the thought of
their happiness hung about her all the afternoon and made her very tender and forgiving when
the little parlourmaid arrived with a piece of the blue and white china smashed to atoms. "I
can't think 'ow it 'appened, Mum. I was just standing...."

Peter and Clare, crossing the common, beheld the sea at their feet. It was a hot misty afternoon
and only the thin white line of tiny curling waves crept out of the haze on to the gleaming
yellow sand. Behind them, on every side was common and the only habitation, a small cottage
nearly hidden by a black belt of trees, on their right. These black, painted trees lay like
a blot of ink against the blue sky.

Sitting down on the edge of the common they looked on to the yellow sand. The air was remorselessly
still as though the world were cased in iron; somewhere deep within its silence, its heart
might yet be beating, but the depths hid its reverberation.

Peter lay flat on his back and instantly his world was full of clamour. All about him insects
were stirring, the thin stiff blades of grass were very faintly rustling, a tiny blue butterfly
flew up from the soil into the bright air--some creature sang a little song that sounded like
the faint melody of a spinet.

"All praising the Lord, I suppose--" Peter listened. "Hymn and glory songs and all the rest--"
Then, clashing, out of the heart of the sky, the thought followed. "There must be a God"--the
tinkling insect told him so.

He gazed into the great sheet of blue above him, so remote, so cruel ... and yet the tiny blue
butterfly flew, without fear, into its very heart.

Peter's soul was drawn up. He swung, he flew, he fled.... Down below, there on the hard, brown
soil his body lay--dust to the dust--there, dead amongst the singing insects.... He looked
down, from his great heights and saw his body, with its red face and its suit of blue and its
up-turned boots, and here, in freedom his Soul exulted!

"Of course there is a God!"

They are praising him down there--the ground is covered with creatures that are praising Him.
Peter buried his eyes and instantly his soul came swinging down to him, found his body again,
filled once more his veins with life and sound. After a vast silence he could hear, once more,
the life amongst the grass, the faint rustle of the thin line of foam beneath him, and could
smell the earth and the scent of the seaweed borne up to them from the sand.

"It's so still," he said suddenly, "that it's almost like thunder. There'll be a storm later.
On a day like this in Cornwall you would hear the sound of the Mining Stamps for miles--"

"Well," she answered, "I am glad we're not in Cornwall--I hate it."

"Hate it!"

"Yes. That sounds horrible to you, I suppose, and I'm quite ready to admit that it's my cowardice.
Cornwall frightens me. When I was there as a tiny girl it was just the same. I always hated it."

"I don't believe you're ever frightened at anything."

"I am. I'm under such a disadvantage, you see. If I'd been white-faced and haggard every one
would have thought it quite natural that I should scream if I were left in the dark or hate
being left alone with those horrible black rocks that Cornwall's so full of, but just because
I'm healthy and was taught to hold my back up at school I have to pretend to a bravery that
simply doesn't exist--" He rejected, for the moment the last part of her sentence. "Oh, but
I understand perfectly what you mean by your fear of Cornwall. Of course I understand it although
I love the place with all my soul and body. But it is terrifying--almost the only terrifying
place that civilisation has left to us--Central Africa is nothing to it--"

"Are you afraid of it?" she said, looking at him intently.

"Tremendously--because I suppose it won't let me alone. It's difficult to put into words, but
I think what I mean is that I want to go on now in London, writing and seeing people and being
happy and it's pulling at me all the time."

"What way pulling at you?"

"I can't get out of my head all the things I did when I was a boy there. I wasn't very happy,
you know. I've told you something about it.... I want to go back.... I want to go back. I mustn't,
but I want to go back--and it hurts--"

He seemed to have forgotten her--he stared out to sea, his hands holding the grass on either
side of him.

She moved and the sound suddenly brought him back. He turned to her laughing.

"Sorry. I was thinking about things. That cottage over there with the black trees reminded
me of Scaw House a little.... But it's all right really. I suppose every fellow has the wild
side and the sober side, and I've had such a rum life and been civilised so short a time...."

She said slowly: "I think I know what you mean, though. I know enough of it to be frightened
of it--I don't want life to be like that. I don't suppose I've got imagination. I want it to
be orderly and easy and no one to be hurt or damaged. Oh!"--her voice was suddenly like a cry--"Why
can't we just go through life without any one being frightened or made miserable? I believe
in cities and walls and fires and regulated emotions--all those other things can only hurt."

"They teach courage," Peter answered gravely. "And that's about the only thing we're here to
learn, I expect. My mother died because she wasn't brave enough and I want ... I want...."

He broke off--"There's only one thing I want and that's you, Clare. You must have known all
these weeks that I love you. I've loved you ever since I met you that Good Friday afternoon
years ago. Let me take care of you, see that no one hurts you--love you ... love you--"

"Do you really want me, Peter?"

He didn't speak but his whole body turned towards her, answered her question.

"Because I am yours entirely. I became yours that day when your hand touched mine. I wasn't
sure before--I knew then--"

He looked at her. He saw her, he thought for the first time. She sat with her hands pressing
on the grass, her body bent back a little.

The curve from her neck to her feet was like the shadow of some colour against the brown earth
because he saw her only dimly. Her hair burnt against the blue sky but her eyes--her eyes!
His gaze caught hers and he surrendered himself to that tenderness, that mystery, that passion
that she flung about him. In her eyes he saw what only a lover can see--the terror and the
splendour of a soul surprised for the first time into love. She was caught, she was trapped,
she was gorgeously delivered. In her eyes he saw that he had her in the hollow of his hand
and that she was glad to be there.

But even now they had not touched--they had not moved from their places. They were urged towards
one another by some fierce power but also some great suspense still restrained them.

Then Clare spoke, hurriedly, almost pleadingly.

"But Peter, listen--before I say any more--you must know me better. I think that it is just
because I love you so much that I see myself clearly to-day as I have never seen myself before--although
I have, I suppose really known ... things ... but I have denied them to myself. But now I know
that all that I say is true--"

"I am ready," he said, smiling. But she did not smile back at him, she was intensely serious,
she spoke without moving her eyes from his face.

"It is not altogether my fault. I have been an only child and everything that I have wanted
I have always had. I have despised my mother and even my father because they have given in
to me--that is not a pleasant thing to know. And now comfort, happiness, an absence of all
misery, these things are essential--"

"I will look after you," said Peter. It was almost with irritation that she brushed aside his
assurance.

"Yes, yes, I know, but you must understand that it's more than that. If I am unhappy I am another
creature you haven't seen ... you don't know.... If I am frightened--"

"But Clare, dear, we're all like that--"

"No, it's sheer wickedness with me. Oh! Peter I love you so much that you must listen. You
mustn't think afterwards, ah, if I'd only known--"

"Aren't you making too much of it all? We've all got these things and it's just because we
can help each other that we marry. We give each the courage--"

"I've always been frightened," she said slowly, "always when anything big comes along--always.
And this is the biggest thing I've ever met. If only it had been some ordinary man ... but
you, Peter, that I should hurt you."

"You won't hurt me," he answered her, "and I'd rather be hurt by you than helped by some one
else--let's leave all this. If you love me, there's nothing else to say.... Do you love me, Clare?"

"Yes, Peter."

Then suddenly before he could move towards her a storm that had been creeping upon them, burst
over their heads. Five minutes ago there had been no sign of anything but the finest weather,
but, in a moment the black clouds had rolled up and the thunder broke, clashing upon the world.
The sea had vanished.

"We must run for it," cried Peter, raising his voice against the storm. "That cottage over
there--it's the only place."

They ran. The common was black now--the rain drove hissing, against the soil, the air was hot
with the faint sulphur smell.

Peter flung himself upon the cottage door and Clare followed him in. For a moment they stood,
breathless. Then Peter, conscious only that Clare was beside him, wild with the excitement
of the storm, caught her, held her for a moment away from him, breathed the thunder that was
about them all, and then kissed her mouth, wet with the rain.

She clung to him, white, breathless, her head on his shoulder.

"Why, you're not frightened?" The sense of her helplessness filled him with a delicious vigour.
The way that her hand pressed in upon his shoulder exalted him. Her wet golden hair brushed
his cheek. Then he remembered that they had invaded the cottage. For the first time it occurred
to him that their first embrace might have been observed; he turned around.

The room was filthy, a huge black fire-place occupied most of it, the floor was littered with
pieces of paper, of vegetables and a disagreeable smell protested against the closed and dirty
windows. At first it seemed that this place was empty and then, with a start, he was aware
that two eyes were watching them. The thunder pealed above them, the rain lashed the roof and
ran streaming from the eaves; the cottage was dark; but he saw in a chair, a bundle of rags
from which those eyes were staring.

Clare gave a little cry; an old woman with a fallen chin and a face like yellow parchment sat
huddled in the chair.

Peter spoke to her. "I hope you don't mind our taking shelter here, whilst the storm passes."
She had seen them embrace; it made him uncomfortable, but the storm was passing away, already
the thunder was more distant.

The old woman made no reply, only her eyes glared at them. Peter put his hand in Clare's--"It's
all right; I think the old thing's deaf and dumb and blind--look, the storm's passing--there's
a bit of blue sky. Isn't it odd an old thing like that..."

Clare, shuddered a little. "I don't like it--she's horrid--this place is so dirty. I believe
the rain's stopped."

They opened the door and the earth met them, good and sweet, after the shower. The sky was
breaking, the mists were leaving the sea and as the storm vanished, the sun, dipping towards
the horizon flung upon the blue a fleet of tiny golden clouds.

Peter bent down to the old woman.

"Thank you," he said, "for giving us shelter." He placed a shilling on her lap.

"She's quite deaf and blind," he said. "Poor old thing!"

They closed the door behind them and passed down a little path to the seashore. Here wonders
met them. The sand, wet with the recent storm catching all the colours of the sky shone with
mother of pearl--here a pool of blue, there the fleet of golden clouds.

It stretched on every side of them, blazing with colour. Behind them the common, sinking now
into the dull light of evening.

They stood, little pigmies, on that vast painted floor. Before them the breeze, blowing back
the waves into the sun again turned the spray to gold.

Tiny figures, in all this glory, they embraced. In all the world they seemed the only living
thing....

III

They had their witness. The old woman who lived in the heart of those black trees, was deaf
and dumb indeed, but her eyes were alive in her fading and wrinkled body.

When the door had closed she rose slowly from her chair, and her face was wrinkled with the
passion of the hatred that her old soul was feeling.

What did they mean, those two, coming there and haunting her with their youth and strength
and love. Kissing there before her as though she were already dead--she to whom kisses were
only bitter memories.

Her face worked with fury--she hobbled, painfully, to the door and opened it.

Below her, on a floor of gold, two black figures stood together.

Gazing at them she raised her thin and trembling hand; she flung with a passionate, furious
gesture, something from her.

A small silver coin glittered in the air, whistled for a moment and fell.

CHAPTER IV

THE ROUNDABOUT

I

Mrs. Rossiter and Mrs. Galleon sat solemnly, with the majesty of spreading skirts and Sunday
Best hats, in the little drawing-room of The Roundabout, awaiting the return from the honeymoon.

The Roundabout is the name that Peter has given to the little house in Dorset Street, Chelsea,
that he has chosen to live in with his bride. High spirits lead to nicknames and Peter was
in the very highest of spirits when he took the house. The name alluded both to the shape--round
bow-windowed like--fat bulging little walls, lemon-coloured, and to the kind of life that Peter
intended to lead. All was to be Happiness. Life is challenged with all the high spirits of
a truly happy ceremony.

It is indeed a tiny house--tiny hall, tiny stairs, tiny rooms but quaint with a little tumble-down
orchard behind it and that strange painted house that old mad Miss Anderson lives in on the
other side of the orchard. Such a quiet little street too ... a line of the gravest trees,
cobbles with only the most occasional cart and a little church with a sleepy bell at the farthest
end ... all was to be Happiness.

Wedding presents--there had been six hundred or so--filled the rooms. People had, on the whole,
been sensible, had given the right thing. The little drawing-room with its grey wall-paper,
roses in blue jars, its two pictures--Velasquez' Maria Theresa in an old silver frame and Rembrandt's
Night Watch--was pleasant, but overwhelmed now by the presence of these two enormous ladies.
The evening sun, flooding it all with yellow light, was impertinent enough to blind the eyes
of Mrs. Rossiter. She rose and moved slowly to draw down the blinds. A little silver clock
struck half-past four.

"They must soon be here," said Mrs. Galleon gloomily. Her gloom was happy and comfortable.
She was making the very most of a pleasant business with the greatest satisfaction in the world.
She had done exactly the same at Bobby's wedding, and, in her heavy, determined way she would
do the same again before she died. Alice Galleon would be there in a moment, meantime the two
ladies, without moving in their chairs, flung sentences across at one another and smoothed
their silk skirts with their white plump hands.

"It's not really a healthy house--"

"No--with the orchard--and it's much too small--"

"Poor dears, hope they'll be happy. But one can't help feeling, Jane dear, that it was a little
rash of you ... your only girl ... and one knows so little about Mr. Westcott, really--"

"Well, your own Bobby vouched for him. He'd known him at school after all, and we all know
how cautious Bobby is about people--besides, Emma, no one could have received him more warmly--"

"Yes--Oh! of course ... but still, having no family--coming out of nowhere, so to speak--"

"Well, it's to be hoped they'll get on. I must say that Clare will miss her home terribly.
It takes a lot to make up for that--And her father so devoted too...."

"Yes, we must make the best of it."

The sun's light faded from the room--the clock and the pictures stood out sharply against the
gathering dusk. Two ladies filled the room with their shadows and the little fire clicked and
rattled behind the murmuring voices.

II

Alice Galleon burst in upon them. "What! Not arrived yet! the train must be dreadfully late.
Lights! Lights! No, don't you move, mother!"

She returned with lamps and flooded the room with light. The ladies displayed a feeble protest
against her exultant happiness.

"I'm sure, my dear, I hope that nothing has happened."

"My dear mother, what could happen?"

"Well, you never know with these trains--and a honeymoon, too, is always rather a dangerous
time. I remember--"

"I hear them!" Alice cried and there indeed they were to be heard bumping and banging in the
little hall. The door opened and Peter and Clare, radiant with happiness, appeared.

They stood in the doorway, side by side, Clare in a little white hat and grey travelling dress
and Peter browner and stronger and squarer than ever.

All these people filled the little room. There was a crackling fire of conversation.

"Oh! but we've had a splendid time--"

"No, I don't think Clare's in the least tired--"

"Yes, isn't the house a duck?"

"Don't we just love being back!"

"... hoping you hadn't caught colds--"

"... besides we had the easiest crossing--"

"... How's Bobby?"

"... were so afraid that something must have happened--"

Mrs. Rossiter took Clare upstairs to help her to take her hat off.

Mother and daughter faced one another--Clare flung herself into her mother's arms.

"Oh! Mother dear, he's wonderful, wonderful!"

Downstairs Alice watched Peter critically. She had not realised until this marriage, how fond
she had grown of Peter. She had, for him, very much the feeling that Bobby had--a sense of
tolerance and even indulgence for all tempers and morosities and morbidities. She had seen
him, on a day, like a boy of eighteen, loving the world and everything in it, having, too,
a curious inexperience of the things that life might mean to people, unable, apparently, to
see the sterner side of life at all--and then suddenly that had gone and given place to a mood
in which no one could help him, nothing could cheer him... like Saul, he was possessed with
Spirits.

Now, as he stood there, he looked not a day more than eighteen. Happiness filled him with colour--his
eyes were shining--his mouth smiling.

"Alice, old girl--she's splendid. I couldn't have believed that life could be so good--"

A curious weight was lifted from her at his words. She did not know what it was that she had
dreaded. Perhaps it had been merely a sense that Clare was too young and inexperienced to manage
so difficult a temperament as Peter's--and now, after all, it seemed that she had managed it.
But in realising the relief that she felt she realised too the love that she had for Peter.
When he was young and happy the risks that he ran seemed just as heavy as when he was old and
miserable.

"Oh, Peter! I'm so glad--I know she's splendid--Oh! I believe you are going to be happy--"

"Yes!" he answered her confidently, "I believe we are--"

The ladies--Mrs. Galleon, Mrs. Rossiter and Alice--retired. Later on Clare and Peter were coming
into Bobby's for a short time.

Left alone in their little house, he drew her to the window that overlooked the orchard and
silently they gazed out at the old, friendly, gnarled and knotted tree, and the old thick garden-wall
that stretched sharply against the night-sky.

Behind them the fire crackled and the lamps shed their pleasant glow and that dear child with
the great stiff dress that Velasquez painted smiled at them from the wall.

Peter gave a deep sigh of happiness.

"Our House..." he said and drew her very close to him. The two of them, as they stood there
outlined against the window were so young and so pleasant that surely the Gods would have pity!

III

In the days that followed he watched it all with incredulity. So swiftly had he been tossed,
it seemed, from fate to fate, and so easily, also, did he leave behind him the things that
had weighed him down. No sign now of that Peter--evident enough in the Brockett days--morose,
silent, sometimes oppressed by a sense of unreasoned catastrophe, stepping into his bookshop
and out again as though all the world were his enemy.

Peter knew now that he was loved. He had felt that precious quality on the day that his mother
died, he had felt it sometimes when he had been in Stephen's company, but against these isolated
emotions what a world of hate and bitterness.

Now he felt Clare's affection on every side of him. They had already in so short a time a store
of precious memories, intimacies, that they shared. They had been through wild, passionate
wonders together and standing now, two human beings with casual words and laughing eyes, yet
they knew that perfect holy secrets bound them together.

He stood sometimes in the little house and wondered for an instant whether it was all true.
Where were all those half cloudy dreams, those impulses, those dread inheritances that once
he had known so well? Where that other Peter Westcott? Not here in this dear delicious little
house, with Love and Home and great raging happiness in his heart.

He wrote to Stephen, to Mr. Zanti, to Norah Monogue and told them. He received no answers--no
word from the outer world had come to him. That other life seemed cut off, separated--closed.
Perhaps it had left him for ever! Perhaps, as Clare said, walls and fires were better than
wind and loneliness--comfort more than danger.... Meanwhile, in his study at the top of the
house, "The Stone House" was still lying, waiting, at Chapter II--

But it was Clare who was the eternal wonder. He could not think of her, create her, pile up
the offerings before her altar, sufficiently. That he should have had the good fortune... It
never ceased to amaze him.

As the weeks and months passed his life centred more and more round Clare and the house that
they shared together. He knew now many people in London; they were invited continually to dinners,
parties, theatres, dances. Clare's set in London had been very different from Peter's literary
world, and they were therefore acclaimed citizens of two very different circles. Peter, too,
had his reviewing articles in many papers--the whole whirligig of Fleet Street. (How little
a time, by the way, since that dreadful day when he had sat on that seat on the Embankment
and talked to the lady with the Hat!)

His days during this first year of married life were full, varied, exciting as they could be--and
yet, through it all, his eye was always upon that little house, upon the moment when the door
might be closed, the fire blazing and they two were alone, alone--

He was, indeed, during this year, a charming Peter. He loved her with the hero worship of a
boy, but also with a humour, a consciousness of success, a happy freedom that denied all mawkish
sham sentiment. He studied only to please her. He found that, after all, she did not care very
greatly for literature or music or pictures. Her enthusiasm for these things was the enthusiasm
of a child who is bathed in an atmosphere of appreciation and would return it on to any object
that she could find.

He discovered that she loved compliments, that she cared about dress, that she loved to have
crowds of friends about her, and that parties excited her as though these were the first that
she had ever known. But he found, too, that in those half-hours when she was alone with him
she showed her love for him with a passion and emphasis that was almost terrifying. Sometimes
when she clung to him it was as though she was afraid that it was not going to last. He discovered
in the very beginning that below all her happy easy life, an undercurrent of apprehension,
sometimes only vaguely felt, sometimes springing into sight like the eyes of some beast in
the dark, kept company with her.

It was always the future--a perfectly vague, indefinite future that terrified her. Every moment
of her life had been sheltered and happy and, by reason of that very shelter, her fears had
grown upon her. He remembered one evening when they had been present at some party and she
had been radiant, beautiful, in his eyes divine. Her little body had been strung to its utmost
energy, she had whirled through the evening and at last as they returned in the cab, she had
laid her head on his shoulder and suddenly flung her arms about him and kissed him--his eyes,
his cheeks, his mouth--again and again. "Oh! I'm so safe with you, Peter dear," she had cried
to him.

He loved those evenings when they were alone and she would sit on the floor with her head on
his knee and her hand against his. Then suddenly she would lean back and pull his head down
and kiss his eyes, and then very slowly let him go. And the fierceness, the passion of her
love for him roused in him a strength of devotion that all the years of unhappiness had been
storing. He was still only a boy--the first married year brought his twenty-seventh birthday--but
his love for Clare had the depth and reserve that belongs to a man.

Mrs. Launce, watching them both, was sometimes frightened. "God help them both if anything
interferes," she said once to her husband. "I've seen that boy look at Clare with a devotion
that hurts. Peter's no ordinary mortal--I wonder, now and again, whether Clare's worth it all."

But this year seemed to silence all her fears. The happiness of that little house shone through
Chelsea. "Oh, we're dining with the Westcotts to-night--they'll cheer us up--they're always
so happy"--"Oh! did you see Clare Westcott? I never saw any one so radiant."

And once Bobby said to Alice: "We made a mistake, old girl, about that marriage. It's made
another man of Peter. He's joy personified."

"If only," Alice had answered, "destiny or whatever it is will let them alone. I feel as though
they were two precious pieces of china that a housemaid might sweep off the chimney piece at
any moment. If only nobody will touch them--"

Meanwhile Peter had forgotten, utterly forgotten, the rest of the world. Walls and fires--for
a year they had held him. The Roundabout versus the World.... What of old Frosted Moses, of
the Sea Road, of Stephen, of Mr. Zanti? What of those desperate days in Bucket Lane? All gone
for nothing?

Clare, perhaps, with this year behind her, hardly realised the forces against which she was
arrayed. Beware of the Gods after silence....

IV

And, after all, it was Clare herself who flung down the glove.

On a winter's evening she was engaged to some woman's party. Peter had planned an evening,
snug and industrious, alone with a book. "The Stone House" awaited his attention--he had not
worked at it for months. Also he knew that he owed Henry Galleon a visit. Why he had not been
to see the old man lately he scarcely knew.

Clare, standing in the little hall, waiting for a cab, suggested an alternative.

"Peter dear, why don't you go round to Brockett's if you've nothing to do?"

"Brockett's!"

"Yes. You've never been since we married, and I had a letter from Norah this morning--not at
all cheerful--I'm afraid she's been ill for months. They'd love to see you."

"Brockett's!" He stood astounded. Well, why not? A strange emotion--uncomfortable, alien, stirred
him. He kissed her and saw her go with a half-distracted gaze. What a world away Brockett's
seemed! Old Mrs. Lazarus, Norah (poor Norah!) Mrs. Brockett, young Robin Tressiter. They would
be glad to see him--it was a natural thing enough that he should go--what was it that held
him back? For the first time since his marriage, as he slowly and thoughtfully put on his greatcoat,
he was distressed. He reproached himself--Norah, Stephen, Mr. Zanti!... he had not given them
a thought.

He felt, as he went out, as though he were going, with key and candle, to unlock some old rusty
door that led into secret rooms. It was a wet, windy night. The branches of the little orchard
rattled and groaned, and doors and windows were creaking.

As he passed into the shadows and silence of Bloomsbury the impression weighed with increasing
heaviness upon him that the old Peter had come back and that his married life with Clare had
been a dream. He was still at Brockett's, still silent, shy, awkward, still poring over pages
of "Reuben Hallard" and wondering whether any one would ever publish it--still spending so
many hours in the old musty bookshop with Herr Gottfried's wild mop of hair coming so madly
above the little counter.

The wind tugged at his umbrella, the rain lashed his face and at last, breathless, with the
sharp corner of his upturned collar digging into his chin, he pulled the bell of the old grey
remorseless door that he knew so well. There was no one in Bennett Square, only the two lamps
dimly marked its desolation.

The door was opened by Mrs. Brockett herself and she stood there, stern and black peering into
his face.

"What is it? What do you want?" she asked grimly.

He brushed past her laughing and stood back under the gas in the hall looking at her.

She gave a little cry. "No! It can't be! Why, Mr. Westcott!"

He had never, in all the seven years that he had been with her, seen her so strongly moved.

"But Mr. Westcott! To think of it! And the times we've talked of you! And you never coming
near us all this while. You might have been dead for all we knew, and indeed if it hadn't been
for Miss Monogue the other day we'd have heard no news since the day that wild man with the
beard came walking in," she broke off suddenly--"and there you are, holding your umbrella with
the point down and making a great pool on the carpet as though--" She took the umbrella from
him but her hand rested for an instant on his arm and she said gruffly--

"But all the same, Mr. Peter, I'm more glad to see you than I can say--" She took him into
her little room and looked at him. "But you've not changed in the least," she said, "not in
the very least. And where, pray, Mr. Peter, have you been all this time and come nowhere near us?"

He tried to explain; he was confused, he said something about marriage and stopped. The room
was filled with that subtle odour that brought his other life back to him in a torrent. He
was bathed in it, overwhelmed by it--roast-beef, mutton, blacking, oil-cloth, decayed flowers,
geraniums, damp stone, bread being toasted--all these things were in it.

He filled his nostrils with the delicious pathos and intimacy of it.

She regarded him sternly. "Now, Mr. Peter, it's of no use. Oh, yes, we've heard about your
wedding. You wrote to Miss Monogue. But there were days before that, many of them, and never
so much as a postcard. With some of, my boarders it would be natural enough, because what could
you expect? We didn't want them, they didn't want us--only habit as you might say. But you,
Mr. Peter--why just think of the way we were fond of you--Mrs. Lazarus and little Robin and
Miss Monogue--as well as myself."

She stopped and pulled out her handkerchief and blew her nose.

"I dare say you're a famous man," she went on, "with your books and your marriage and the rest
of it, but that doesn't alter your old friends being your old friends and it never will. There,
I'm getting cross when all I mean to say is that I'm more delighted to see you than words."

He was humble before her. He felt, indeed, that he had been the most unutterable brute. How
could he have stayed away all this time with these dear people waiting for him? He simply hadn't
realised--

"And Miss Monogue?" he asked at last, "I'm afraid she's not been very well?"

"She's been very ill indeed--for months. At one time we were afraid that she would go. It's
her heart. Poor dear, and she's been worrying so about her work--but she's better now and she'll
be truly glad to see you, Mr. Peter--but you mustn't stay more than a few minutes. She's up
on the sofa but it's the excitement that's bad for her."

But first Peter went to pay a visit to the Tressiter establishment. He knew, from old custom,
that this would be the hour when the family would be getting itself, by slow and noisy degrees,
to bed. So tremendous, indeed, was the tumult that he was able to open the door and stand,
within the room, watching and un-noticed. Mrs. Tressiter was attempting to bathe a fat and
very strident baby. Two small boys were standing on a bed and hitting one another with pillows;
a little girl lay on her face on the floor and howled for no apparent reason; Robin, but little
older than Peter's last impression of him had painted, was standing, naked save for his shirt
and looking down, gravely, at his screaming sister.

Every now and again, Mrs. Tressiter, without ceasing from her work on the baby who slipped
about in her hands like a stout eel, cried in a shrill voice: "Children, if you don't be quiet,"
or "Nicholas, in a moment I'll give you such a beating,"--or "Agatha, for goodness' sake!"...

Then suddenly Robin, looking up, caught sight of Peter, he gave a shout and was across the
room in an instant. There was never a moment's doubt in his eyes. He flung himself upon Peter's
body, he wound his arms round Peter's leg, he beat upon his chest with his bullet head, he
cried: "Oh! Mr. Peter has come! Mr. Peter has come!"

Mrs. Tressiter let the baby fall into the bath with a splash and there it lay howling. The
other members of the family gathered round.

But Peter thought that he had known no joy so acute for years as the welcome that the small
boy gave him. He hoisted Robin on to his shoulder, and there Robin sat with his naked little
legs dangling over, his hands in the big man's neck.

"Oh! Mr. Westcott, I'm sure..." said Mrs. Tressiter, smiling from ear to ear and wiping her
wet hands on her apron--Robin bent his head and bit Peter's ear.

"Get on, horse," he cried and for a quarter of an hour there was wild riot in the Tressiter
family. Then they were all put to bed, as good as gold,--"you might have heard a pin drop,"
said Mrs. Tressiter, "when Agatha said her prayers"--and at last the lights were put out.

Peter bent down over Robin's bed and the boy flung his arms round his neck.

"I dreamed of you--I knew you'd come," he whispered.

"What shall I send you as a present to-morrow?" asked Peter.

"Soldiers--soldiers on horses. Those with cannons and shiny things on their backs...." Robin
was very explicit--"You'll be here to-morrow?" he asked.

"No--not to-morrow," Peter answered.

"Soon?"

"Yes, soon."

"I love you, more than Agatha, more than Dick, more than any one 'cept Daddy and Mummy."

"You'll be a good boy until I come back?"

"Promise ... but come back soon."

Peter gave him a long kiss and left him. Supposing, one day, he had a boy like that? A little
boy in a shirt like that? Wouldn't it be simply too wonderful? A boy to give soldiers to....

He went across to Miss Monogue's door. A faint voice answered his knock and, entering the room,
the scent of medicine and flowers that he always connected with his mother, met him. Norah
Monogue, very white, with dark shadows beneath her eyes, was lying on the sofa by the fire.

Mrs. Brockett had prepared her for Peter's coming and she smiled up at him with her old smile
and gave him her hand. How thin and white it was with its long slender fingers! He sat down
by her sofa and he knew by the way that she looked at him that she was reproaching him--

"Naughty Peter," she said, "all these months and you have been nowhere near us."

"I, too, have a bone--you never sent me a word about my wedding."

She turned her head away. "I was frightfully ill just then. They didn't think I'd pull through.
I did write afterwards to Clare, I told her how ill I'd been--"

"She never told me."

Peter bent over the sofa. "But I am ashamed, Norah, more ashamed than I can say. After I got
well and went to live with the Galleons a new life seemed to begin for me and I was so eager
and excited about it all. And then--" he hesitated for a moment--"there was Clare."

"Yes, I know there was Clare and I am so delighted about it--I know that you will both be so
happy.... But, when one is lying here week after week and is worried and tired things take
such a different outline. I thought that you and Clare--that you ... had given me up altogether
and--"

Suddenly hiding her face in her hands she began to cry. It was inexpressibly desolate there
in the dim bare little room, and the sharp sense of his neglect and the remembrance of the
good friend that she had been to him for so many years overwhelmed Peter.

He knelt down and put his arms round her. "Norah--don't, please, I can't bear it. It's all
right. I've been a beast, a selfish cad. But it shan't happen again. I'll come often--I'm ashamed."

She cried for a little and then she smiled at him. "I'm a fool to cry like that but you see
I'm weak and ill--and seeing you again after all this time and your being so successful and
happy upset me I suppose. Forgive it, Peter, and come again one day when I'm better and stronger--and
bring Clare too."

She held tightly to his hand and her grasp was hot and feverish. He reassured her, told her
that he would come soon again, that he would bring Clare and so left her.

He took a cab and drove back to Chelsea in a storm of agitation. Suddenly, out of nothing as
it were, all these people, this old life had been thrust up in front of him--had demanded,
made claims. About him once again was the old atmosphere: figures were filling his brain, the
world was a wild tossing place ... one of those Roundabouts with the hissing lights, the screaming
music, the horses going up and down. Plain enough now that the old life was not done with.
Every moment of his past life seemed to spring before him claiming recognition. He was drunk
with the desire for work. He flung the cabman something, dashed into the little house, was
in his room. The lamp was lighted, the door was shut, there was silence, and in his brain figures,
scenes, sentences were racing--"The Stone House," neglected for so long, had begun once more,
to climb.

The hours passed, the white sheets were covered and flung aside. Dimly through a haze, he saw
Clare standing in the doorway.

"Bad old boy!"

He scarcely glanced up. "I'm not coming yet--caught by work."

"Don't be at it too late."

He made no reply.

She closed the door softly behind her.

CHAPTER V

THE IN-BETWEENS

I

Then, out of the wind and rain, came Mr. Zanti.

II

Three days after Peter's visit to Brockett's he was finishing a letter before dressing for
dinner. He and Clare were going on to a party later in the evening but were dining quietly
alone together first. The storms that had fallen upon London three days before were still pommelling
and buffeting the city, the trees outside the window groaned and creaked with a mysterious
importance as though they were trying to tell one another secrets, and little branches tapped
at the dripping panes. He was writing in the little drawing-room--warm and comfortable--and
the Maria Theresa, so small a person in so much glory, looked down on him from her silver frame
and gave him company.

Then Sarah--a minute servant, who always entered a room as though swept into it by a cyclone--breathlessly
announced that there was a gentleman to see Mr. Westcott.

"'E's drippin' in the 'all," she gasped and handed Peter a very dirty bit of paper.

Peter read:--"Dear Boy, Being about to leave this country on an expedition of the utmost importance
I feel that I must shake you by the hand before I go. Emilio Zanti."

Mr. Zanti, enormous, smiling from ear to ear, engulfed in a great coat from which his huge
head, buffeted by wind and rain--his red cheeks, his rosy nose, his sparkling eyes--stood out
like some strange and cheerful flower--filled the doorway.

He enfolded Peter in his arms, pressed him against very wet garments, kissed him on both cheeks
and burst into a torrent of explanation. He was only in London for a very few days--he must
see his dearest Peter--so often before he had wanted to see his Peter but he had thought that
it would be better to leave him--and then he had heard that his Peter was married--well, he
must see his lady--it was entirely necessary that he should kiss her hand and wish her well
and congratulate her on having secured his "own, own Peter," for a life partner. Yes, he had
found his address from that Pension where Peter used to live; they had told him and he had
come at once because at once, this very night, he was away to Spain where there was a secret
expedition--ah, very secret--and soon--in a month, two months--he would return, a rich, rich
man. This was the adventure of Mr. Zanti's life and when he was in England again he, Mr. Zanti,
would see much of Peter and of his beautiful wife--of course she was beautiful--and of the
dear children that were to come--

Here Peter interrupted him. He had listened to the torrent of words in an odd confusion. The
last time that he had seen Mr. Zanti he had left him, sitting with his head in his hands sobbing
in the little bookshop. Since then everything had happened. He, Peter, had had success, love,
position, comfort--the Gods had poured everything into his hands--and now, to his amazement
as he sat there, in the little room opposite his huge fantastic friend he was almost regretting
all those glorious things that had come to him and was wishing himself back in the dark little
bookshop--dark, but lighted with the fire of Mr. Zanti's amazing adventures.

But there was more than this in his thoughts. As he looked at Mr. Zanti, at his wild black
locks, his flaming cheeks, his rolling eyes, his large red hands, he was aware suddenly that
Clare would not appreciate him. It was the first time since his marriage that there had been
any question of Clare's criticism, but now he knew, with absolute certainty, that Mr. Zanti
was entirely outside Clare's range of possible persons. For the first time, almost with a secret
start of apprehension, he knew that there were things that she did not understand.

"I'm afraid," he said, "that my wife is dressing. But when you come back you shall meet of
course--that will be delightful." And then he went on--"But I simply can't tell you how splendid
it is to look at you again. Lots of things have happened to me since I saw you, of course,
but I'm just the same--"

Whilst he was speaking his voice had become eager, his eyes bright--he began to pace the room
excitedly--

"Oh, Zanti! ... the days we used to have. I suppose the times I've been having lately had put
it all out of my head, but now, with you here, it's all as though it happened yesterday. The
day we left Cornwall, you and I--the fog when we got to London ... everything." He drew a great
breath and stood in the middle of the room listening to the rain racing down the pipes beyond
the dark windows.

Mr. Zanti, getting up ponderously, placed his hands on Peter's shoulders.

"Still the same Peter," he said. "Now I know zat I go 'appy. Zat is all I came for--I said
I must zee my Peter because Stephen--"

"Stephen--" broke in Peter sharply.

"Yes, our Stephen. He goes with me now to Spain. He is now, until to-night, in London but he
will not come to you because 'e's afraid--"

"Afraid?"

"Yes 'e says you are married now and 'ave a lovely 'ouse and 'e says you 'ave not written for
a ver' long time, and 'e just asked me to give you 'is love and say that when 'e comes back
from Spain, per'aps--"

"Stephen!" Peter's voice was sharp with distress. "Zanti, where is he now? I must go and see
him at once."

"No, 'e 'as gone already to the boat. I follow 'im." Then Mr. Zanti added in a softer voice--"So
when he tell me that you 'ave not written I say 'Ah! Mr. Peter forgets his old friends,' and
I was zorry but I say that I will go and make sure. And now I am glad, ver' glad, and Stephen
will be glad too. All is well--"

"Oh! I am ashamed. I don't know what has come over me all this time. But wait--I will write
a note that you shall take to him and then--when he comes back from Spain--"

He went to his table and began to write eagerly. Mr. Zanti, meanwhile, went round the room
on tip-toe, examining everything, sometimes shaking his huge head in disapproval, sometimes
nodding his appreciation.

Peter wrote:

Dear, Dear Stephen,--I am furious, I hate myself. What can I have been doing all this time?
I have thought of you often, but my marriage and all the new life have made me selfish, and
always I put off writing to you because I thought the quiet hour would come to me--and it has
never come. But I have no excuse--except that in the real part of myself I love you, just the
same as ever--and it will be always the same. I have been bewildered, I think, by all the things
that have happened to me during this last year--but I will never be bewildered again. Write
to me from Spain and then as soon as you come back I will make amends for my wickedness. I
am now and always, Your loving Peter.

Mr. Zanti took the letter.

"How is he?" asked Peter.

"I found 'im--down in Treliss. He wasn't 'appy. 'E was thinking of that woman. And then 'e
was all alone. 'E got some work at a farm out at Pendragon and 'e was just goin' there when
I came along and made 'im come to Spain. 'E was thinkin' of you a lot, Peter."

Mr. Zanti cast one more look round the room. "Pretty," he said. "Pretty. But not my sort of
place. Too many walls--all too close in."

In the hall he said once more--a little plaintively:--

"I should like to see your lady, Peter," and then he went on hurriedly, "But don't you go and
disturb her--not for anything--I understand...."

And, with his finger on his lip, wrapt in the deepest mystery, he departed into the rain.

As the door closed behind him, Peter felt a wave of chill, unhappy loneliness. He turned back
into the cheerful little hall and heard Clare singing upstairs. He knew that they were going
to have a delightful little dinner, that, afterwards, they would be at a party where every
one would be pleased to see them--he knew that the evening in front of him should be wholly
charming ... and yet he was uneasy. He felt now as though he ought to resign his evening, climb
to his little room and work at "The Stone House." And yet what connection could that possibly
have with Mr. Zanti?

His uneasiness had begun, he thought, after his visit to Brockett's. It seemed to him as he
went upstairs to dress that the world was too full of too many things and that his outlook
on it all was confused.

Throughout dinner this uneasiness remained with him. Had he been less occupied with his own
thoughts he would have noticed that Clare was not herself; at first she talked excitedly without
waiting for his answers--there were her usual enthusiasms and excitements. Everything in the
day's history had been "enchanting" or "horrible," as a rule she waited for him to act up to
her ecstasies and abhorrencies; to-night she talked as though she had no audience but were
determined to fill up time. Then suddenly she was silent; her eyes looked tired and into them
there crept a strange secret little shudder as though she were afraid of some thought or mysterious
knowledge. She looked now like a little girl who knew, that to-morrow--the inevitable to-morrow--she
must go to the dentist's to be tortured.

The last part of the meal was passed in silence. Afterwards she came into his study and sat
curled upon the floor at his feet watching him smoke.

She thought as she looked up at him, that something had happened to make him younger. She had
never seen him as young as he was to-night--and then because his thoughts were far away and
because her own troubled her she made a diversion. She said:--

"Who was that extraordinary man you were talking to this evening?"

He came back, with a jerk, from Stephen.

"What man?"

"Why the man with all the black hair and a funny squash hat. I saw Sarah let him in."

"Ah, that," said Peter, looking down at her tenderly, "that was a great friend of mine."

She moved her head away.

"Don't touch my hair, Peter--it's all been arranged for the party. A friend of yours? What!
That horrible looking man? Oh! I suppose he was one of those dreadful people you knew in the
slums or in Cornwall."

Peter saw Mr. Zanti's dear friendly face, like a moon, staring at him, and heard his warm husky
voice: "Peter, my boy...."

He moved a little impatiently.

"Look here, old girl, you mustn't call him that. He's one of the very best friends I've ever
had--and I've been rather pulled up lately--ever since that night you sent me to Brockett's.
I've felt ashamed of myself. All my happiness and--you--and everything have made me forget
my old friends and that won't do."

She laughed. "And now I suppose you're going to neglect me for them--for horrid people like
that man who came to-night."

Her voice was shaking a little--he saw that her hands were clenched on her lap. He looked down
at her in astonishment.

"My dear Clare, what do you mean? How could you say a thing like that even in jest? You know--"

She broke in upon him almost fiercely--"It wasn't jest. I meant what I said. I hate all these
earlier people you used to know--and now, after our being so happy all this time, you're going
to take them up again and make the place impossible--"

"Look here, Clare, you mustn't speak of them like that--they're my friends and they've got
to be treated as such." His voice was suddenly stern. "And by the way as we are talking about
it I don't think it was very kind of you to tell me nothing at all about poor Norah's being
so ill. She asked you to tell me and you never said a word. That wasn't very kind of you."

"I did speak to you about it but you forgot--"

"I don't think you did--I am quite sure that I should not have forgotten--"

"Oh, of course you contradict me. Anyhow there's no reason to drag Norah Monogue into this.
The matter is perfectly clear. I will not have dirty old men like that coming into the house."

"Clare, you shall not speak of my friends--"

"Oh, shan't I? When I married you I didn't marry all your old horrid friends--"

"Drop it, Clare--or I shall be angry--"

She sprang to her feet, faced him. He had never in his life seen such fury. She stood with
her little body drawn to its full height, her hands clenched, her breast heaving under her
white evening dress, her eyes glaring--

"You shan't! You shan't! I won't have any of them here. I hate Cornwall and all its nasty people
and I hate Brockett's and all those people you knew there. When you married me you gave them
all up--all of them. And if you have them here I won't stay in the house--I'll leave you. All
that part of your life is nothing to do with me. Nothing--and I simply won't have it. You can
do what you like but you choose between them and me--you can go back to your old life if you
like but you go without me!"

She burst from the room, banging the door behind her. She had behaved exactly like a small
child in the nursery. As he looked at the door he was bewildered--whence suddenly had this
figure sprung? It was some one whom he did not know. He could not reconcile it with the dignified
Clare, proud as a queen, crossing a ball-room or the dear beloved Clare nestling into a corner
of his arm-chair, her face against his, or the gentle friendly Clare listening to some story
of distress.

The fury, the tempest of it! It was as though everything in the room had been broken. And he,
with his glorious, tragical youth felt that the end of the world had come. This was the conclusion
of life--no more cause for living, no more friendship or comfort or help anywhere. Clare had
said those things to him. He stood, for ten minutes there, in the middle of the room, without
moving--his face white, his eyes full of pain.

Sarah came to tell him that the hansom was there. He moved into the hall with the intention
of sending it away; no party for him to-night--when, to his amazement he saw Clare coming slowly
down the stairs, her cloak on, buttoning her gloves.

She passed him without a word and got into the hansom. He took his hat and coat, gave the driver
the address, and climbed in beside her.

Once as they drove he put out his hand, touched her dress and said--"Clare dear--"

She made no reply, but sat looking, with her eyes large and black in her little white face,
steadfastly in front of her.

III

Lady Luncon was a rich, good-natured woman who had recently published a novel and was anxious
to hear it praised, therefore she gave a party. Originally a manufacturer's daughter, she had
conquered a penniless baronet--spent twenty years in the besieging of certain drawing-rooms
and now, tired of more mundane worlds, fixed her attention upon the Arts. She was a completely
stupid woman, her novel had been exceedingly vulgar, but her good heart and a habit of speaking
vaguely in capital letters secured her attention.

When Clare and Peter arrived people were filling her drawing-rooms, overflowing on to the stairs
and pouring into the supper room. Some one, very far away, was singing "Mon coeur s'ouvre a
ta voix," a babel of voices rose about Clare and Peter on every side, every one was flung against
every one; heat and scent, the crackle and rustle of clothes, the soft voices of the men and
sharp strident voices of the women gave one the sensation of imminent suffocation; people with
hot red faces, unable to move at all, flung agonised glances at the door as though the entrance
of one more person must mean death and disaster.

There were, Peter soon discovered, three topics of conversation: one was their hostess' novel
and this was only discussed when Lady Luncon was herself somewhere at hand--the second topic
concerned the books of somebody who had, most unjustly it appeared, been banned by the libraries
for impropriety, and here opinions were divided as to whether the author would gain by the
advertisement or lose by loss of library circulation. Thirdly, there was a new young man who
had written a novel about the love affairs of a crocus and a violet--it was amazingly improper,
full of poetry--"right back," as somebody said "to Nature." Moreover there was much talk about
Form. "Here is the new thing in fiction that we are looking for ..." also "Quite a young man--oh
yes, only about eighteen and so modest. You would never think...."

His name was Rondel and Peter saw him, for a moment, as the crowds parted, standing, with a
tall, grim, elderly woman, apparently his mother, beside him. He was looking frightened and
embarrassed and stood up straight against the wall as though afraid lest some one should come
and snatch him away.

But Peter saw the world in a dream. He walked about, with Clare beside him, and talked to many
people; then she was stopped by some one whom she knew and he went on alone. Now there had
come back to him the old terror. If he went back, after this was over, and Clare was still
angry with him, he did not know what he would do. He was afraid....

He smiled, talked, laughed and, in his chest, there was a sharp acute pain like a knife. He
had still with him that feeling that nothing in life now was worth while and there followed
on that a wild impulse to let go, to fling off the restraints that he had retained now for
so long and with such bitter determination.

He wanted to cast aside this absurd party, to hurry home alone with Clare, to sit alone with
her in the little house and to reach the divine moment when reconciliation came and they were
closer to one another than ever before--and then there was the horrible suggestion that there
would be no reconciliation, that Clare would make of this absurd quarrel an eternal breach,
that things would never be right again.

He looked back and saw Clare smiling gaily, happily, at some friend. He saw her as she had
faced him, furiously, an hour earlier ... oh God! If she should never care for him again!

He recognised many friends. There were the two young Galleons, Millicent and Percival, looking
as important and mysterious as possible, taxing their brains for something clever to say....

"Ah, that's Life!" Peter heard Percival say to some one. Young fools, he thought to himself,
let them have my trouble and then they may talk. But they were nice to him when he came up
to them. The author of "Reuben Hallard," even though he did look like a sailor on leave, was
worth respecting--moreover, father liked him and believed in him--nevertheless he was just
a tiny bit "last year's sensation." "Have you read," said Percival eagerly, "'The Violet's
Redemption'? It really is the most tremendous thing--all about a violet. There's the fellow
who wrote it over there--young chap standing with his back to the wall...."

There was also with them young Tony Gale who was a friend of Alice Galleon. He was nice-looking,
eager and enthusiastic. Rather too enthusiastic, Peter, who did not like him, considered. Full
of the joy of life; everything was "topping" and "ripping." "I can't understand," he would
say, "why people find life dull. I never find it dull. It's the most wonderful glorious thing--"

"Ah, but then you're so young," he always expected his companions to say; and the thing that
pleased him most of all was to hear some one declare--"Tony Gale's such a puzzle--sometimes
he seems only eighteen and then suddenly he's fifty."

It was rumoured that he had once been in love with Alice Galleon when she had been Alice du
Cane--and that they had nearly made a match of it; but he was certainly now married to a charming
girl whom he had seen in Cornwall and the two young things were considered delightful by the
whole of Chelsea.

Tony Gale had with him a man called James Maradick whom Peter had met before and liked. Maradick
was forty-two or three, large, rather heavy in build and expression and very taciturn. He was
in business in the city, but had been drawn, Peter knew not how, into the literary world of
London. He was often to be found at dinner parties and evening "squashes" silent, observant
and generally alone. Many people thought him dull, but Peter liked him partly because of his
reserve and partly because of his enthusiasm for Cornwall. Cornwall seemed to be the only subject
that could stir Maradick into excitement, and when Cornwall was under discussion the whole
man woke into sudden stir and emotion.

To-night, with his almost cynical observance of the emotions and excitement that surged about
him, he seemed to Peter the one man possible in the whole gathering.

"Look here, Maradick, let's get somewhere out of this crush and have a cigarette."

People were all pouring into supper now and Peter saw his wife in the distance, on Bobby Galleon's
arm. They found a little conservatory deserted now and strangely quiet after the din of the
other rooms: here they sat down.

Maradick was capable of sitting, quite happily for hours, without saying anything at all. For
some time they were both silent.

At last Peter said: "By jove, Maradick, yours is a fortunate sort of life--just going into
the city every day, coming back to your wife in the evening--no stupid troubles that come from
imagining things that aren't there--"

"How do you know I don't?" answered Maradick quietly. "Imagination hasn't anything to do with
one's profession. I expect there's as much imagination amongst the Stock Exchange men as there
is with you literary people--only it's expressed differently."

"What do you do," said Peter, "if it ever gets too much for you?"

"Do? How do you mean?"

"Well suppose you're feeling all the time that one little thing more, one little word or some
one coming in or a window breaking--anything will upset the equilibrium of everything? Supposing
you're out with all your might to keep things sane and to prevent your life from swinging back
into all the storm and uncertainty that it was in once before, and supposing you feel that
there are a whole lot of things trying to get you to swing back, what's the best thing to do?"

"Why, hold on, hold on--"

"How do you mean?"

"Fortitude--Courage. Clinging on with your nails, setting your teeth."

Peter was surprised at the man's earnestness. The two of them sitting there in that lonely
deserted little conservatory were instantly aware of some common experience.

Maradick put his hand on Peter's knee.

"Westcott, you're young, but I know the kind of thing you mean. Believe me that it's no silly
nonsense to talk of the Devil--the Devil is as real and personal as you and I, and he's got
his agents in every sort and kind of place. If he once gets his net out for you then you'll
want all your courage. I know," he went on sinking his voice, "there was a time I had once
in Cornwall when I was brought pretty close to things of that sort--it doesn't leave you the
same afterwards. There's a place down in Cornwall called Treliss...."

"Treliss!" Peter almost shouted. "Why that's where I come from. I was born there--that's my town--"

Before Maradick could reply Bobby Galleon burst into the conservatory. "Oh, there you are--I've
been looking for you everywhere. How are you, Maradick? Look here, Peter, you've got to come
down to supper with us. We've got a table--Alice, Clare, Millicent, Percival, Tony Gale and
his wife and you and I--and--one other--an old friend of yours, Peter."

"An old friend?" said Peter, getting up from his chair and trying to look as though he were
not furious with Bobby for the interruption.

"Yes--you'll never guess, if I give you a hundred guesses--it's most exciting--come along--"

Peter was led away. As he moved through the dazzling, noisy rooms he was conscious that there,
in the quiet, dark little conservatory, Maradick was sitting, motionless, seeing Treliss.

IV

On his way down to the supper room he was filled with annoyance at the thought of his interrupted
conversation. He might never have his opportunity again. Maradick was so reserved a fellow
and took so few into his confidence--also he would, in all probability, be ashamed to-morrow
of having spoken at all.

But to Peter at that moment the world about him was fantastic and unreal. It seemed to him
that at certain periods in his life he was suddenly confronted with a fellow creature who perceived
life as he perceived it. There were certain persons who could not leave life alone--they must
always be seeing it as a key to something wider, bigger altogether. This was nothing to do
with Christianity or any creed whatever, because Creeds implied Certainty and Definition of
Knowledge, whereas Peter and the others like him did not know for what they were searching.
Again, they were not Mystics because Mysticism needed a definite removal from this world before
any other world were possible. No, they were simply Explorers and one traced a member of the
order on the instant. There had been already in Peter's life, Frosted Moses, Stephen, Mr. Zanti,
Noah Monogue, and now suddenly there was Maradick. These were people who would not laugh at
his terror of Scaw House, at his odd belief that his father was always trying to draw him back
to Treliss....

As he entered the supper-room and saw Clare sitting at a distant table, he knew that his wife
would never be an Explorer. For her Fires and Walls, for her no questions, no untidiness moral
or physical--the Explorer travelled ever with his life in his hands--Clare believed in the
Stay-at-homes.

The great dining-room was filled with Stay-at-homes. One saw it in their eyes, in the flutter
of useless and tired words that rose and fell; all the souls in that room were cushioned and
were happy that it was so. The Rider on the Lion was beyond the Electric Lights--on the dark
hill, over the darker river, under the stars. Somebody pulled a cracker and put on a paper
cap. He was a stout man with a bald head and the back of his neck rippled with fat. He had
tiny eyes.

"Look at Mr. Horset," cried the woman next to him--"Isn't he absurd?"

Peter found at the table in the corner Alice, Clare, Millicent and Percival Galleon, Tony Gale
and his wife, waiting. There was also a man standing by Alice's chair and he watched Peter
with amused eyes.

He held out his hand and smiled. "How do you do, Westcott?" he said. Then, with the sound of
his voice, the soft almost caressing tilt of it, Peter knew who it was. His mind flew back
to a day, years ago, when he had flung himself on the ground and cried his soul out because
some one had gone away....

"Cards!" he cried. "Of all wonderful things!"

Cards of Dawson's--Cards, the magnetic, the brilliant, Cards with his World and his Society
and now slim and dark and romantic as ever, making every one else in the room shabby beside
him, so that Bobby's white waistcoat was instantly seen to be hanging loosely above his shirt
and Peter's trousers were short, and even the elegant Percival had scarcely covered with perfect
equality the ends of his white tie.

Instantly as though the intervening years had never been, Bobby took his second place beside
Cards' glory--even Percival's intention of securing the wonderful Mr. Rondel, author of "The
Violet's Redemption," for their table, failed of its effect.

They were enough. They didn't want anybody else--Room for Mr. Cardillac!

And he seized it. Just as he would have seized it years ago at school so he seized it now.
Their table was caught into the most dazzling series of adventures. Cards had been everywhere,
seen everybody and everything--seen it all, moreover, with the right kind of gaiety, with an
appreciation that was intelligent and also humorous. There was humour one moment and pathos
the next--deep feeling and the wittiest cynicism.

They were all swung about Europe and with Cards at their head pranced through the cities of
the world. Meanwhile Peter fancied that once or twice Clare flung him a little glance of appeal
to ask for forgiveness--and once they looked up and smiled at one another. A tiny smile but
it meant everything.

"Oh! won't we have a reconciliation afterwards? How could I have said those things? Don't we
just love one another?"

When they went upstairs again Peter and Cards exchanged a word:

"You'll come and see us?"

"My dear old man, I should just think so. This is the first time I've been properly in London
for years and now I'm going to stay. Fancy you married and successful and here am I still the
rolling-stone!"

"You! Why you can do anything!"

"Can't write 'Reuben Hallard,' old boy...." and so, with a laugh, they parted.

In the cab, afterwards, Clare's head was buried in Peter's coat, and she sobbed her heart out.
"How I could have been such a beast, Peter, Peter!"

"Darling, it was nothing."

"Oh, but it was! It shall never, never happen again...but I was frightened--"

"Frightened!"

"Yes, I always think some one's going to take you away. I don't understand all those other
people. They frighten me--I want you to myself, just you and I--always."

"But nobody can take me away--nobody--"

The cab jolted along--her hand was on his knee--and every now and again a lamp lighted her
face for him and then dropped it back into darkness.

By the sharp pressure of her hand he knew that she was moved by an intensity of feeling, swayed
now by one of those moods that came to her so strangely that it seemed that they belonged to
another personality.

"Look... Peter. I'm seeing clearly as I think I never have before. I'm afraid--not because
of you--but because of myself. If you knew--" here his hand came down and found hers--"if you
knew how I despise myself, my real self. I've been spoilt always, always, always. I've always
known it. My real self is ashamed of it. But there's another side of me that comes down suddenly
and hides all that--and then--when that happens--I just want to get what I want and not to
be hurt and ..." she pressed closer against him and went on in a whisper.

"Peter, I shall always care for you more than any one--always whatever happens. But think,
a time will come--I know it--when you'll have to watch me, to keep me by you, and even let
your work go--everything, just for a time until I'm safe. I suppose that moment comes to most
women in their married lives. But to me, when it happens, it will be worse than for most women
because I've always had my way. You mustn't let me have my way then--simply clutch me, be cruel,
brutal, anything only don't let me go. Then, if you keep me through that, you'll always keep me."

To Peter it was almost as though she were talking in her sleep, something, there in the old,
lumbering cab that was given to her by some one else to say something to which she herself
would not give credit.

"That's all right, you darling, you darling, you darling." He covered her face, her eyes with
kisses. "I'll never let you go--never." He felt her quiver a little under his arms.

"Don't mind, Peter, my horrible, beastly character. Just keep me for a little, train me--and
then later I'll be such a wife to you, such a wife!"

Then she drew his head down. His lips touched her body just above her dress, where her cloak
parted.

She whispered:

"There's something else."

She raised her face from his coat and looked up at him. Her cheeks were stained with crying
and her eyes, large and dark, held him furiously as though he were the one place of safety.

He caught her very close.

"What is it?..."

       *       *       *       *       *

That night, long after he, triumphant with the glory of her secret, had fallen asleep, she
lay, staring into the dark, with frightened eyes.

CHAPTER VI

BIRTH OF THE HEIR

I

Peter's child was born on a night of frost when the stars were hard and fierce and a full moon,
dull gold, flung high shadows upon the town.

During the afternoon the fear that had been in Clare's eyes for many weeks suddenly flamed
into terror--the doctor was sent for and Peter was banished from the room.

Peter looked ludicrously, pitifully young as he sat, through the evening, in his room at the
top of the house, staring in front of him, his face grey with anxiety, his broad shoulders
set back as though ready for a blow; his strong fingers clutched the things on his writing-table,
held them, dropped them, just like the hands of a blind man about the shining surface, tapping
the wood.

He saw her always as he had seen her last night when she had caught his arm crying--"If I die,
Peter.... Oh, Peter, if I die!"... and he had comforted and stroked her hair, warming her cold
fingers.

How young she was, how tiny for this suffering--and it was he, he who had brought it upon her!
Now, she was lying in her bed, as he had once seen his mother lie, with her hair spread about
the pillow, her hands gripping the sheets, her eyes wide and black--the vast, hard bed-room
closing her in, shutting her down--

She who loved comfort, who feared any pain, who would have Life safe and easy, that she should
be forced--

The house was very still about him--no sound came up to him; it seemed to him that the hush
was deliberate. The top branches of the trees in the little orchard touched his window and
tapped ever and again; a fire burnt brightly, he had drawn his curtains and beyond the windows
the great sheet of stars, the black houses, the white light of the moon.

And there, before him--what mockery! the neat pages of "The Stone House" now almost completed.

He stared into the wall and saw her face, her red-gold hair upon the pillow, her dark staring
eyes--

Once the nurse came to him--Yes, she was suffering, but all went well ... it would be about
midnight, perhaps. There was no cause for alarm ....

He thought that the nurse looked at him with compassion. He turned fiercely upon Life that
it should have brought this to them when they were both so young.

At last, about ten o'clock, able no longer to endure the silence of the house--so ominous--and
the gentle tap-tap of the branches upon the pane and the whispering crackle of the fire, he
went out....

A cold hard unreal world received him. Down Sloane Street the lines of yellow lamps, bending
at last until they met in sharp blue distance, were soft and misty against the outline of the
street, the houses were unreal in the moonlight, a few people passed quickly, their footsteps
sharp in the frosty air--all the little painted doors of Sloane Street were blind and secret.

He passed through Knightsbridge, into the Park. As the black trees closed him in the fear of
London came, tumbling upon him. He remembered that day when he had sat, shivering, on a seat
on the Embankment, and had heard that note, sinister, threatening, through the noise and clattering
traffic. He heard it again now. It came from the heart of the black trees that lined the moonlit
road, a whisper, a thread of sound that accompanied him, pervaded him, threatened him. The
scaly beast knew that another victim was about to be born--another woman was to undergo torture,
so that when the day came and the scaly beast rose from its sleep then there would be one more
to be devoured.

He, Peter, was to have a child. He had longed for a child ever since he could remember. He
had always loved children--other people's children--but to have one of his own!... To have
something that was his and Clare's and theirs alone, to have its love, to feel that it depended
Upon them both, to watch it, to tend it--Life could have no gift like that.

But now the child was hidden from him. He thought of nothing but Clare, of her suffering and
terror, of her waiting there so helplessly for the dreadful moment of supreme pain. The love
that he had now for Clare was something more tender, more devoted, than he had ever felt for
any human being. His mind flew back fiercely to that night of his first quarrel when she had
told him. Now he was to be punished for his heartlessness and cruelty ... by her loss.

His agony and terror grew as he paced beneath the dark and bending trees. He sat down on a
seat, at the other end of which was a little man with a bowler hat, spectacles and his coat
collar turned up. He was a shabby little man and his thin bony hands beat restlessly upon his
knees.

The little man said, "Good evening, sir."

"Good evening," said Peter, staring desperately in front of him.

"It's all this blasted government--"

"I beg your pardon--"

"This blasted government--This income tax and all--"

"It's more than that," said Peter, wishing that the man would cease beating his knees with
his hands--

"It's them blasted stars--it's Gawd. That's what it is. Curse Gawd--that's what I say--Curse Gawd!"

"What's He done?" said Peter.

"I've just broken in my wife's 'ead with a poker. Killed 'er I expect--I dunno--going back
to see in a minute--"

"Why did you do it?"

"'Ad to--always nagging--that's what she was--always nagging. Wanted things--all sorts o' things--and
there were always children coming--So we 'ad a blasted argyment this evening and I broke 'er
'ead open--Gawd did it--that's what I say--"

Peter said nothing.

"You can call a bloomin' copper if you want to," the little man said.

"It's no business of mine," said Peter and he got up and left him. All shadows--only the sinister
noise that London makes is real, that and Clare's suffering.

He left the Park turned into Knightsbridge and came upon a toyshop. The shutters had not been
put up and the lights of a lamp shone full upon its windows. Against the iron railings opposite
and the high white road these toys stood with sharp, distinct outline behind the slanting light
of the glass. There were dolls--a fine wedding doll, orange blossom, lace and white silk, and
from behind it all, the sharp pinched features and black beady eyes stared out.... There was
a Swiss doll with bright red cheeks, red and green clothing and shoes with shining buckles.
Then there were the more ordinary dolls--and gradually down the length of the window, their
clothing was taken from them until at last some wooden creatures with flaring cheeks and brazen
eyes kicked their limbs and defied the proprieties.

He would be a Boy ... he would not care about dolls....

There were soldiers--rows and rows of gleaming soldiers. They came from a misty distance at
the top of the shop window, came marching from the gates of some dark, mediaeval castle. Their
swords caught the lamplight, shining in a line of silver and the precision with which they
marched, the certainty with which they trod the little bridge ... ah, these were the fellows!
He would be a Boy ... soldiers would enchant him! He should have boxes, boxes, boxes!

There were many other things in the window; teddy bears and animals with soft woolly stomachs
and fat comfortable legs--and there were ugly, modern Horrors with fat bulging faces and black
hair erect like wire; there were little devils with red tails, there were rabbits that rode
bicycles and monkeys that climbed trees. There were drums--big drums and little drums--trumpets
with crimson tassels, and in one corner a pyramid of balls, balls of every colour, and at the
top of the pyramid a tiny ball of peacock blue, hanging, balancing, daintily, supremely right
in pose and gesture.

It had gesture. It caught Peter's eye--Peter stood with his nose against the pane, his heart
hammering--"Oh! she is suffering--My God, how she is suffering!"--and there the little blue
ball caught him, held him, encouraged him.

"I will belong to your boy one day" it seemed to say.

"It shall be the first thing I will buy for him--" thought Peter.

He turned now amongst the light and crowds of Piccadilly. He walked on without seeing and hearing--always
with that thought in his heart--"She is in terrible pain. How can God be so cruel? And she
was so happy--before I came she was so happy--now--what have I done to her?"

Never, before to-night, had he felt so sharply, so irretrievably his sense of responsibility.
Here now, before him, at this birth of his child, everything that he had done, thought, said--everything
that he had been--confronted him. He was only twenty-seven but his shoulders were heavy with
the confusion of his past. Looking back upon it, he saw a helpless medley of indecisions, of
sudden impulses, sudden refusals; into the skeins of it, too, there seemed to be dragged the
people that had made up his life--they faced him, surrounded him, bewildered him!

What right had he, thus encompassed, to hand these things on to another? His father, his grandfather
... he saw always that dark strain of hatred, of madness, of evil working in their blood. Suppose
that as his boy grew he should see this in the young eyes? Suppose, most horrible of all, that
he should feel this hatred for his son that his grandfather had felt for his father, that his
father had felt for him.

What had he done?... He stopped, staring confusedly about him. The people jostled him on every
side. The old devils were at him--"Eat and drink for to-morrow we die.... Give it up ... We're
too strong for you and we'll be too strong for your son. Who are you to defy us? Come down--give
it up--"

His white face caught attention. "Move along, guv'nor," some one shouted. A man took him by
the arm and led up a dark side street. He turned his eyes and saw that the man was Maradick.

II

The elder man felt that the boy was trembling from head to foot.

"What's the matter, Westcott? Anything I can do for you?"

Peter seemed to take him in slowly, and then, with a great effort, to pull himself together.

"What, you--Maradick? Where was I? I'm afraid I've been making a fool of myself...." A church
clock struck somewhere in the distance. "Hullo, I say, what's that? That's eleven. I must get
back, I ought to be at home--"

"I'll come with you--"

Maradick hailed a hansom and helped Peter into it.

For a moment there was silence--then Maradick said--

"I hope everything's all right, Westcott? Your wife?"

Peter spoke as though he were in a dream. "I've been waiting there all the afternoon--she's
been suffering--My God!... It got on my nerves.... She's so young--they oughtn't to hurt her
like that." He covered his face with his hands.

"I know. I felt like that when my first child came. It's terrible, awful. And then it's over--all
the pain--and it's magnificent, glorious--and then--later--it's so commonplace that you cannot
believe that it was ever either awful or magnificent. Fix your mind on the glorious part of
it, Westcott. Think of this time to-morrow when your wife will be so proud, so happy--you'll
both be so proud, so happy, that you'll never know anything in life like it."

"Yes, yes, I know--of course it's sure to be all right--but I suppose this waiting's got on
my nerves. There was a fellow in the Park just broken his wife's head in--and then everything
was so quiet. I could almost hear her crying, right away in her room."

He stopped a moment and then went on. "It's what I've always wanted--always to have a boy.
And, by Jove, he'll be wonderful! I tell you he shall be--We'll be such pals!" He broke off
suddenly--"You haven't a boy?"

"No, mine are both girls. Getting on now--they'll soon be coming out. I should like to have
had a boy--" Maradick sighed.

"Are they an awful lot to you?"

"No--I don't suppose they are. I should have understood a boy better,--but they're good girls.
I'm proud of them in a way--but I'm out so much, you see."

Peter faced the contrast. Here this middle-aged man, with his two girls--and here too he, Peter,
with his agonising, flaming trial--to slip, so soon, into dull commonplace?

"But didn't you--if you can look so far--didn't you, when the first child came, funk it? Your
responsibility I mean. All the things one's--one's ancestors--it's frightening enough for oneself
but to hand it on--"

"It's nothing to do with oneself--one's used, that's all. The child will be on its own legs,
thrusting you away before you know where you are. It will want to claim its responsibilities--ancestors
and all--"

Peter said nothing--Maradick went on:

"You know we were talking one night and were interrupted--you're in danger of letting the things
you imagine beat the things you know. Stick to the thing you can grasp, touch--I know the dangers
of the others--I told you that once in Cornwall, I--the most unlikely person in the world--was
caught up by it. I've never laughed at morbidity, or nerves, or insanity since. There's such
a jolly thin wall between the sanest, most level-headed beef-eating Squire in the country and
the maddest poet in Bedlam. I know--I've been both in the same day. It's better to be both,
I believe, if you can keep one under the other, but you must keep it under--"

Maradick talked on. He saw that the boy's nerves were jumping, that he was holding himself
in with the greatest difficulty.

Peter said: "You don't know, Maradick. I've had to fight all my life--my father, grandfather,
all of them have given in at last--and now this child ... perhaps I shall see it growing, see
him gradually learning to hate me, see myself hating him ... at last, my God, see him go under--drink,
deviltry--I've fought it--I'm always fighting it--but to-night--"

"Good heavens, man--you're not going to tell me that your father, your grandfather--the rest
of them--are stronger than you. What about your soul, your own blessed soul that can't be touched
by any living thing or dead thing either if you stick to it? Why, every man's got power enough
in himself to ride heaven and earth and all eternity if he only believed he'd got it! Ride
your scruples, man--ride 'em, drive 'em--send 'em scuttling. Believe in yourself and stick
to it--Courage!..."

Maradick pulled himself in. They were driving now, down the King's Road. The people were pouring
in a thick, buzzing crowd, out of the Chelsea Palace. Middle-aged stockbrokers in hansom cabs--talking
like the third act of a problem play!--but Maradick had done his work. As they drove round
the corner, past the mad lady's painted house, he saw that Peter was calmer. He had regained
his self-control. The little house where Peter lived was very still--the trees in the orchard
were stiff and dark beneath the stars.

Peter spoke in a whisper--"Good-night, Maradick, you've done me a lot of good--I shan't forget it."

"Good luck to you," Maradick whispered back. Peter stole into the house.

The little drawing-room looked very cosy; the fire was burning, the lamp lighted, the thick
curtains drawn. Maria Theresa smiled, with all her finery, from the wall.

Peter sat down in front of the fire. Maradick was right. One must have one's hand on the bridle--the
Rider on the Lion again. It's better that the beast under you should be a Lion rather than
a Donkey, but let it once fling you off its back and you're done for. And Maradick had said
these things! Maradick whom once Peter had considered the dullest of his acquaintances. Well,
one never knew about people--most of the Stay-at-homes were Explorers and vice versa, if one
only understood them.

How still the house was! What was happening upstairs? He could not go and see--he could not
move. He was held by the stillness. The doctor would come and tell him....

He thought of the toyshop--that blue ball--it would be the first thing that he would buy for
the boy--and then soldiers--soldiers that wouldn't hurt him, that he couldn't lick the paint from--

Now the little silver clock ticked! He was so terribly tired--he had never been tired like
this before....

The stillness pressed upon the house. Every sound--the distant rattling of some cab, the faint
murmur of trams--was stifled, extinguished. The orchard seemed to press in upon the house,
darker and darker grew the forest about it--The stars were shut out, the moon... the world
was dead.

Then into this sealed and hidden silence, a voice crying from an upper room, suddenly fell--a
woman in the abandonment of utter pain, pain beyond all control, was screaming. Somewhere,
above that dark forest that pressed in upon the house, a bird of prey hovered. It hung for
a moment; it descended--its talons were fixed upon her flesh... then again it ascended. Shriek
after shriek, bursting the silence, chasing the shadows, flooding the secrecy with horrible
light, beat like blows upon the walls of the house--rose, fell, rose again. Peter was standing,
his back against the wall, his hands spread out, his face grey.

"My God, my God... Oh! my God!"

The sweat poured from his forehead. Once more there was silence but now it was ominous, awful....

The little silver clock ticked--Peter's body stood stretched against the wall--he faced the door.

Hours, hours passed. He did not move. The screaming had, many years ago, ceased. The doctor--a
cheerful man with blue eyes and a little bristling moustache--came in.

"A fine boy, Mr. Westcott--I congratulate you. You might see your wife for a moment if you
cared--stood it remarkably well--"

Slowly the forest, dark and terrible, moved away from the house. Very faintly again could be
heard the distant rattling of some cab, the murmur of trams.

CHAPTER VII

DECLARATION OF HAPPINESS

I

Extracts from letters that Bobby Galleon wrote to Alice Galleon about this time:

"... But, of course, I am sorrier than I can say that it's so dull. That's due to charity,
my dear, and if you will go and fling yourself into the depths of Yorkshire because a girl
like Ola Hunting chooses to think she's unhappy and lonely you've only yourself to thank. Moreover
there's your husband to be considered. I don't suppose, for a single instant, that he really
prefers to be left alone, with his infant son, mind you, howling at the present moment because
his nurse won't let him swallow the glass marbles, and you can picture to yourself--if you
want to make yourself thoroughly unhappy--your Robert sitting, melancholy throughout the long
evening, alone, desolate, creeping to bed somewhere about ten o'clock.

"So there we are--you're bored to death and I've no one to growl at when I come back from the
City--all Ola Hunting's fault--wring the girl's neck. Meanwhile here I sit and every evening
I'll write whatever comes into my head and never look back on it again but stick it into an
envelope and send it to you. You know me too well by now to be disappointed at anything.

"I'm quite sure that, if you were here with me now, sitting in that chair opposite me and sewing
for all you were worth, that the thing that we'd be talking about would be Peter. If, therefore,
these scrawls are full of Peter you won't mind, I know. He's immensely occupying my attention
just now and you love him as truly and deeply as I do, so that if I go on at length about him
you'll excuse it on that score. You who know me better than any one else in the world know
that, in my most secret heart, I flatter myself on my ability as a psychologist. I remember
when I told you first how you laughed but I think since then you've come round not a little,
and although we both keep it to ourselves, it's a little secret that you're a tiny bit proud
of. I can see how brother Percival, or young Tony Gale, or even dear Peter himself would mock,
if I told them of this ambition of mine. 'Good, dear, stupid, old Bobby' is the way they think
of me, and I know it's mother's perpetual wonder (and also, I think, a little her comfort)
that I should be so lacking in brilliance when Percival and Millie are so full of it.

"You know Peter's attitude to me in these things--you've seen it often enough. He's patronising--he
can't help it. That isn't, he considers, my line in the least, and, let me once begin to talk
to him of stocks and shares and he'll open all his ears. Well, I can't blame him--but I do
think these writers and people are inclined to draw their line a little too sharply with their
Philistines--great big gulf, please--and Artists. At any rate, here goes for my psychology
and good luck to it. Peter, in fact, is so interesting a subject if one sees anything of him
at all that I believe he'd draw speculation out of any one. There was old Maradick talking
about him the other night--fascinated by him and understanding him most amazingly well--another
instance of your Philistine and Artist mixed.

"But I knew him--and knew him jolly well too--when he was about twelve, so that I really get
a pull over the rest of you there, for it adds of course immensely to the interest and if ever
child was Father of the Man, Peter was. You know how we both funked that marriage of his for
him--you because you knew Clare so well, I because I knew Peter. And then for a time it really
seemed that we were both entirely wrong. Clare's is a far simpler personality than Peter's,
and if you work along one or two recognised lines--let her have her way, don't frighten her,
above all keep her conventional--it's all right. Clare was, and is, awfully in love with him,
and he madly with her of course--and that helped everything along. You know how relieved we
both were and indeed it seemed, for a time, that it was going to be the making of both of them--going
to make Clare braver and Peter less morbid.

"Well, it's since you've been away that everything's happened. Although the baby was born some
weeks before you went, it's only lately that Clare has been up and about. She's perfectly well
and the baby's splendid--promises to be a tremendous fellow and as healthy as possible. You
can imagine, a little, the effect of it all on Clare. I don't suppose there's any girl in London
been so wrapped in cotton wool all her life, and that old ass of a father and still more irritating
ass of a mother would go on wrapping her still if they had their way. The fuss they've both
made about this whole business is simply incredible--especially when the man's a doctor and
brings Lord knows how many children into the world every week of his life. But it's all been
awfully bad for Clare. Of course, she was frightened--frightened out of her wits. It's the
very first time life ever had its wrappings off for her, and that in itself of course is a
tremendously good thing. But you can't, unfortunately, wrap any one up for all those years
and then take the wrappings off and not deliver a shock to the system. Of course there's a
shock, and it's just this shock that I'm so afraid of. I'm afraid of it for one thing because
Peter's so entirely oblivious of it. He was in an agony of terror on the day that the baby
was born, but once it was there--well and healthy and promising--fear vanished. He could only
see room for glory--and glory he does. I cannot tell you what that boy is like about the baby;
at present he thinks, day and night, of nothing else. It is the most terrific thing to watch
his feeling about it--and meanwhile he takes it for granted that Clare feels the same.... Well,
she doesn't. I have been in a good deal during these last few days and she's stranger than
words can say--doesn't see the child if she can help it--loves it, worships it, when it is
there, and--is terrified of it. I saw a look in her eyes when she was nursing it yesterday
that was sheer undiluted terror. She's been frightened out of her life, and if I know her the
least little bit she's absolutely made up her mind never to be frightened like that again.
She is going to hurl herself into a perfect whirlpool of excitement and entertainment and drag
Peter with her if she can. Meanwhile, behind that hard little head of hers, she's making plans
just as fast as she can make them. I believe she looks on life now as though it had broken
the compact that she made with it--a compact that things should always be easy, comfortable,
above all, never threatening. The present must be calm but the Future's absolutely got to be--and
I believe, although she loves him devotedly in the depths of her strange little soul, that
she half blames Peter for all of this disturbance, and that there are a great many things about
him--his earlier life, his earlier friends, even his work--that she would strip from him if
she could.

"Well, enough for the present. I don't know what nonsense there isn't here. Into the envelope
it all goes. I've been talking to you for an hour and a half and that's something...."

II

"... I've just come in from dinner with Peter and Clare and feel inclined to talk to you for
hours ahead. However, that I can't do, so I shall write to you instead and you're to regard
it all as a continuation of the things that I said in last night's letter. I am as interested
as ever and indeed, after this evening's dinner more interested. The odd thing about it all
is that Peter is so completely oblivious to any change that may be going on in Clare. His whole
mind is centred now on the baby, he cannot have enough of it and it was he, and not Clare,
who took me up after dinner to see it sleeping.

"You remember that they had some kind of a dispute about the name of the boy at the time of
the christening. Peter insisted that it should be Stephen, after, I suppose, that odd Cornish
friend of his, and Clare, weak and ill though she was, objected with all her might. I don't
know why she took this so much to heart but it was all, I suppose, part of that odd hatred
that she has of Peter's earlier life and earlier friends. She has never met the man Brant,
but I think that she fancies that he is going to swoop down one of these days and carry Peter
off on a broomstick or something. She gave in about the name--indeed I have never seen Peter
more determined--but I think, nevertheless, that she broods over it and remembers it. My dear,
I am as sorry for her as I can be. There she stands, loving Peter with all her heart and soul,
terrified out of her wits at the possibilities that life is presenting to her, hating Peter's
friends at one moment, his work the next, the baby the next--exactly like some one, walking
on a window-ledge in his sleep and suddenly waking and discovering--

"Peter's a more difficult question. He's too riotously happy just at the moment to listen to
a word from any one. His relation to the child is really the most touching thing you ever saw,
and really the child, considering that it has scarcely begun to exist, has a feeling for him
in the most wonderful way. It is as good as gold when he is there and follows him with its
eyes--it doesn't pay much attention to Clare. I think it knows that she's frightened of it.
Yes, Peter is quite riotously happy. You know that 'The Stone House' is coming out next week.
There is to be a supper party at the Galleons'--myself, Mrs. Launce. Maradick, the Gales, some
woman he knew at that boarding-house, Cardillac and Dr. and Mrs. Rossiter.

"By the way, Cardillac is there a great deal and I am both glad and sorry. He is very good
for Clare and not at all good for Peter. He seems to understand Clare in the most wonderful
way--far better than Peter does. He brings her out, helps her to be broader and really I think
explains Peter to her and helps things along. His influence on Peter is all the other way.
Peter, of course, worships him, just as he used to do in the old days at school, and Cards
always liked being worshipped. He has an elegance, a savoir-faire that dear, square-shouldered
rough-and-tumble Peter finds entrancing, but, of course, Peter's worth the dozen of him any
day of the week. He drags out all Peter's worst side. I wonder whether you'll understand what
I mean when I say that Peter isn't meant to be happy--at any rate not yet. He's got something
too big, too tremendous in him to be carved easily into any one of our humdrum, conventional
shapes. He takes things so hard that he isn't intended to take more than one thing at a time,
and here he is with Clare and Cards both, as it seems to me, in a conspiracy to pull him into
a thousand little bits and to fling each little bit to a different tea-party.

"He ought to be getting at his work and he isn't getting at it at all. 'The Stone House' is
coming out next week and it may be all right, but I don't mind betting that the next one suffers.
If he weren't in a kind of dream he'd see it all himself, and indeed I think that he'll wake
one day soon and see that a thousand ridiculous things are getting in between him and his proper
life.

"He was leading his proper life in those days at Dawson's when they were beating him at home
and hating him at school, and it was that old bookshop and the queer people he met in it that
produced 'Reuben Hallard.'

"He's so amazingly young in the ways of the world, so eager to make friends with everybody,
so delighted with an entirely superficial butterfly like Cards, so devotedly attached to his
wife, that I must confess that the outlook seems to me bad. There's going to be a tremendous
tug-of-war in a minute and it's not going to be easy for the boy--nor, indeed for Clare.

"I hope that you don't feel so far removed from this in your Yorkshire desert that it has no
interest for you, but I know how devoted you are to Peter and one doesn't want to see the boy
turned into the society novelist creature--the kind of creature, God forgive me, that brother
Percival is certain to become. You'll probably say when you read this that I am trying to drag
out all the morbid side of Peter and make him the melancholy, introspective creature that he
used to be, in fits and starts, when you first knew him. Of course that's the last thing I
want to do, but work to a man of Peter's temperament is the one rock that can save him. He
has, I do believe, a touch of genius in him somewhere, and I believe that if he's allowed to
follow, devoutly and with pain and anguish, maybe, his Art, he'll be a great creature--a great
man and a great writer. But he's in the making--too eager to please, too eager to care for
every one, too desperately down if he thinks things are going badly with him. I notice that
he hasn't been to see my father lately--I think too that all this reviewing is bad for him--other
people's novels pouring upon him in an avalanche must take something from the freshness of his own.

"Anyhow I, Robert Galleon, your clever and penetrating husband, scent much danger and trouble
ahead. Clare, simply out of love for him and anxiety for herself, will I know, do all she can
to drag him from the thing that he should follow--and Cards will help her--out of sheer mischief,
I verily believe.

"On their own heads be it. As to the carpets you asked me to go and look at...."

III

"... And now for the supper party. Although there's a whole day behind me I'm still quivering
under the excitement of it. As I tell you about it it will in all probability, declare itself
as a perfectly ordinary affair, and, indeed, I think that you should have been there yourself
to have realised the emotion of it. But I'll try and give it you word for word. I was kept
in the city and arrived late and they were all there. Mrs. Launce, twinkling all over with
kindness, Maradick in his best Stock Exchange manner, the Gales (Janet Gale perfectly lovely),
the old Rossiters, Cards, shining with a mixture of enterprise and knowledge of the world and
last of all a very pale, rather nervous, untidy Irish woman, a Miss Monogue. Clare was so radiantly
happy that I knew that she wasn't happy at all, had obviously taken a great deal of trouble
about her hair and had it all piled up on the top of her head and looked wonderful. I can't
describe these things, but you know that when she's bent on giving an impression she seems
to stand on her toes all the time--well, she was standing on every kind of toe, moral, physical,
emotional last night. Finally there was Peter, looking as though his evening dress had been
made for something quite different from social dinner parties. It fitted all right, but it
was too comfortable to be smart--he looked, beside Cards, like a good serviceable cob up against
the smartest of hunters. Peter's rough, bullet head, the way that he stands with his legs wide
apart and his thick body holding itself deliberately still with an effort as though he were
on board ship--and then that smile that won all our hearts ages ago right out of the centre
of his brown eyes first and then curving his mouth, at last seizing all his body--but always,
in spite of it, a little appealing, a little sad somewhere--can't you see him? And Cards, slim,
straight, dark, beautifully clothed, beautifully witty and I am convinced, beautifully insincere.
Can't you see Cards say 'good evening' to me--with that same charm, that same ease, that same
contempt that he had when we were at school together? Bobby Galleon--an honest good fellow--but
dull--mon Dieu--dull (he rather likes French phrases)--can't you hear him saying it? Well from
the very first, there was something in the air. We were all excited, even old Mrs. Rossiter
and the pale Irish creature whom I remembered afterwards I had met that day when I went to
that boarding--house after Peter. Clare was quite extraordinary--I have never seen her anything
like it--she talked the whole time, laughed, almost shouted. The only person she treated stiffly
was Cards--I don't think she likes him.

"He was at his most brilliant--really wonderful--and I liked him better than I've ever liked
him before. He seemed to have a genuine pleasure in Peter's happiness, and I believe he's as
fond of the boy as he's able to be of any one. A copy of 'The Stone House' was given to each
of us (I haven't had time to look at mine yet) and I suppose the combination of the baby and
the book moved us all. Besides, Clare and Peter both looked so absurdly young. Such children
to have had so many adventures already. You can imagine how riotous we got when I tell you
that dessert found Mrs. Rossiter with a paper cap on her head and Janet Gale was singing some
Cornish song or other to the delight of the company. Miss Monogue and I were the quietest.
I should think that she's one of the best, and I saw her look at Peter once or twice in a way
that showed how strongly she felt about him.

"Well, old girl, I'm bothered if I can explain the kind of anxiety that came over me after
a time. You'll think me a regular professional croaker but really I suppose, at bottom, it
was some sort of feeling that the whole thing, this shouting and cheering and thumping the
table--was premature. And then I suppose it was partly my knowledge of Peter. It wasn't like
him to behave in this sort of way. He wasn't himself--excited, agitated by something altogether
foreign to him. I could have thought that he was drunk, if I hadn't known that he hadn't touched
any liquor whatever. But a man of Peter's temperament pays for this sort of thing--it isn't
the sort of way he's meant to take life.

"Whatever the reason may have been I know that I felt suddenly outside the whole business and
most awfully depressed. I think Miss Monogue felt exactly the same. By the time the wine was
on the table all I wanted was to get right away. It was almost as though I had been looking
on at something that I was ashamed to see. There was a kind of deliberate determination about
their happiness and Clare's little body with her hair on the verge, as it seemed, of a positive
downfall, had something quite pitiful in its deliberate rejoicing; such a child, my dear--I
never realised how young until last night. Such a child and needing some one so much older
and wiser than Peter to manage it all.

"Well, there I was hating it when the final moment came. Cards got up and in one of the wittiest
little speeches you ever heard in your life, proposed Peter's health, alluded to 'Reuben Hallard,'
then Clare, then the Son and Heir, a kind of back fling at old Dawson's, and then last of all,
an apostrophe to 'The Stone House' all glory and honour, &c.:--well, it was most neatly done
and we all sat back, silent, for Peter's reply.

"The dear boy stood there, all flushed and excited, with his hair pushed back off his forehead
and began the most extraordinary speech I've ever heard. I can't possibly give you the effect
of it at secondhand, in the mere repetition of it there was little more than that he was wildly,
madly happy, that there was no one in the world as happy as he, that now at last the gods had
given him all that he had ever wanted, let them now do their worst--and so crying, flung his
glass over his shoulder, and smashed it on to the wall behind him.

"I cannot possibly tell you how sinister, how ominous the whole thing suddenly was. It swooped
down upon all of us like a black cloud. Credit me, if you will, with a highly--strung bundle
of nerves (not so solid matter-of-fact as I seem, you know well enough) but it seemed to me,
at that moment, that Peter was defying, consciously, with his heart in his mouth, a world of
devils and that he was cognisant of all of them. The thing was conscious--that was the awful
thing about it, I could swear that he was seeing far beyond all of us, that he was hurling
his happiness at something that he had there before him as clearly as I have you before me
now. It was defiance and I believe the minute after uttering it he would have liked to have
rushed upstairs to see that his baby was safe....

"Be that as it may, we all felt it--every one of us. The party was clouded. Cards and Clare
did their best to brighten things up again, and Peter and Tony and Janet Gale played silly
games and made a great deal of noise--but the spirit was gone.

"I left very early. Miss Monogue came away at the same time. She spoke to me before she said
good-night: 'I know that you are an old friend of Peter's. I am so fond of him--we all are
at Brockett's, it isn't often that we see him--I know that you will be his true friend in every
sense of the word--and help him--as he ought to be helped. It is so little that I can do....'

"Her voice was sad. I am afraid she suffers a great deal. She is evidently greatly attached
to Peter--I liked her.

"Well, you in your sober way will say that this is all a great deal of nonsense. Why shouldn't
Peter, if he wishes, say that he is happy? All I can say is that if you yourself had been there...."

CHAPTER VIII

BLINDS DOWN

I

It was not until Stephen Westcott had rejoiced in the glories (so novel and so thrilling) of
his first birthday and "The Stone House" had been six months before the public eye that the
effect of this second book could be properly estimated. Second books are the most surely foredoomed
creatures in all creation and there are many excellent reasons for this. They will assuredly
disappoint the expectations of those who enjoyed the first work, and the author will, in all
probability, have been tempted by his earlier success to try his wings further than they are,
as yet, able to carry him.

Peter's failure was only partial. There was no question that "The Stone House" was a remarkable
book. Had it been Peter's first novel it must have made an immense stir; it showed that he
was, in no kind of way, a man of one book, and it gave, in its London scenes, proof that its
author was not limited to one kind of life and one kind of background. There were chapters
that were fuller, wiser, in every way more mature than anything in "Reuben Hallard."

But it was amazingly unequal. There were places in it that had no kind of life at all; at times
Peter appeared to have beheld his scenes and characters through a mist, to have been dragged
right away from any kind of vision of the book, to have written wildly, blindly.

The opinion of Mrs. Launce was perhaps the soundest that it was possible to have because that
good lady, in spite of her affection for Peter, had a critical judgment that was partly literary,
partly commercial, and partly human. She always judged a book first with her brain, then with
her heart and lastly with her knowledge of her fellow creatures. "It may pay better than 'Reuben
Hallard,'" she said, "there's more love interest and it ends happily. Some of it is beautifully
written, some of it quite unspeakably. But really, Peter, it's the most uneven thing I've ever
read. Again and again one is caught, held, stirred--then, suddenly, you slip away altogether--you
aren't there at all, nothing's there, I could put my ringer on the places. Especially the first
chapters and the last chapters--the middle's splendid--what happened to you?... But it will
sell, I expect. Tell your banker to read it, go into lots of banks and tell them. Bank clerks
have subscriptions at circulating libraries always given them ... but the wild bits are best,
the wild bits are splendid--that bit about the rocks at night ... you don't know much about
women yet--your girls are awfully bad. By the way, do you know that Mary Hollins is only getting
L100 advance next time? All she can get, that last thing was so shocking. I hear that that
book about an immoral violet, by that new young man--Rondel, isn't it?--is still having a most
enormous success--I know that Barratt's got in a whole batch of new copies last night--I hear...."

Mrs. Launce was disappointed--Peter could tell well enough. He received some laudatory reviews,
some letters from strangers, some adulation from people who knew nothing whatever. He did not
know what it was exactly that he had expected--but whatever it was that he wanted, he did not
get it--he was dissatisfied.

He began to blame his publishers--they had not advertised him enough; he even, secretly, cherished
that most hopeless of all convictions--that his book was above the heads of the public. He
noticed, also, that wherever he might be, this name of Rondel appeared before him, Mr. Rondel
with his foolish face and thin mother in black, was obviously the young man of the moment--in
the literary advertisements of any of the weekly papers you might see The Violet novel in its
tenth edition and "The Stone House" by Peter Westcott, second edition selling rapidly.

He was again bewildered, as he had been after the publication of "Reuben Hallard" by the extraordinary
variance of opinions amongst reviewers and amongst his own personal friends. One man told him
that he had no style, that he must learn the meaning and feeling of words, another told him
that his characters were weak but that his style was "splendid--a real knowledge of the value
and meaning of words." Some one told him that he knew nothing at all about women and some one
else that his women were by far the best part of his work. The variety was endless--amongst
those who had appeared to him giants there was the same uncertainty. He seemed too to detect
with the older men a desire to praise those parts of his work that resembled their own productions
and to blame anything that gave promise of originality.

For himself it seemed to him that Mrs. Launce's opinion was nearest the truth. There were parts
of it that were good, chapters that were better than anything in "Reuben Hallard" and then
again there were many chapters where he saw it all in a fog, groped dimly for his characters,
pushed, as it seemed to him, away from their lives and interests, by the actual lives and interests
of the real people about him. This led him to think of Clare and here he was suddenly arrested
by a perception, now only dimly grasped, of a change in her attitude to his writings. He dated
it, thinking of it now for the first time, from the birth of young Stephen--or was it not earlier
than that, on that evening when they had met Cards at that supper party, on that evening of
their first quarrel?

In the early days how well he remembered Clare's enthusiasm--a little extravagant, it seemed
now. Then during the first year of their married life she had wanted to know everything about
the making of "The Stone House." It was almost as though it had been a cake or a pie, and he
knew that he had found her questions difficult to answer and that he had had it driven in upon
him that it was not really because she was interested in the subtleties of his art that she
enquired but because of her own personal affection for him; if he had been making boots or
a suit of clothes it would have been just the same. Then when "The Stone House" appeared her
eagerness for its success had been tremendous--there was nothing she would not do to help it
along--but that, he somewhat ironically discovered, was because she liked success and the things
that success brought.

Then when the book had not succeeded--or only so very little--her interest had, of a sudden,
subsided. "Oh! I suppose you've got to go and do your silly old writing ... I think you might
come out with me just this afternoon. It isn't often that I ask anything of you...." He did
not believe that she had ever really finished "The Stone House." She pretended that she had--"the
end was simply perfect," but she was vague, nebulous. He found the marker in her copy, some
fifty pages before the end.

She was so easily impressed by every one whom she met that perhaps the laughing attitude of
Cards to Peter's books had something to do with it all. Cards affected to despise anything
to do with work, here to-day, gone to-morrow--let us eat and drink ... dear old Peter, grubbing
away upstairs--"I say, Mrs. Westcott, let's go and rag him...." And then they had come and
invaded his room at the top of the house, and sometimes he had been glad and had flung his
work down as though it were of no account ... and then afterwards, in the middle of some tea-party
he had been suddenly ashamed, deeply, bitterly ashamed, as though he had actually wounded those
white pages lying up there in his quiet room.

He was at this time, like a man jostled and pushed and turned about at some riotous fair; looking,
now this way, now that, absorbed by a thousand sights, a thousand sounds--and always through
it all feeling, bitterly in his heart, that something dear to him, somewhere in some place
of silence, was dying--

Well, hang it all, at any rate there was the Child!

II

At any rate there was the Child!

And what a child! Did any one ever have a baby like it, so fat and round and white, with its
head already covered with faint golden silk, its eyes grey and wondering--with its sudden gravities,
its amazing joys and terrific humour, the beauty of its stepping away, as it did, suddenly
without any warning, behind a myriad mists and curtains, into some other land that it knew
of. How amazing to watch it as it slowly forgot all the things that it had come into the world
remembering, as it slowly realised all the laws that this new order of things demanded of its
obedience. Could any one who had been present ever forget its crow of ecstasy at the first
shaft of sunlight that it ever beheld, at its first realisation of the blue, shining ball that
Peter bought, at its first vision, through the window, of falling snow!

Peter was drunk with this amazing wonder. All the facts of life--even Clare and his work--faded
before this new presence for whose existence he had been responsible. It had been one of the
astonishing things about Clare that she had taken the child so quietly. He had seen her thrilled
by musical comedy, by a dance at the Palace Music Hall, by the trumpery pathos of a tenth-rate
novel--before this marvel she stood, it seemed to him, without any emotion.

Sometimes he thought that if it had not been for his reminder she would not have gone to kiss
the child goodnight. There were many occasions when he knew--with wonder and almost dismay--that
she was afraid of it; and once, when they had been in the nursery together and young Stephen
had cried and kicked his heels in a tempest of rage, she had seemed almost to cling to Peter
for protection.

There were occasions when Peter fancied that the baby seemed the elder of the two, it was at
any rate certain that Stephen Westcott was not so afraid of his mother as his mother was of
him. And yet, Peter fancied, that could Clare only get past this strange nervous fear she would
love the baby passionately--would love him with that same fierceness of passion that she flung,
curiously, now and again upon Peter himself. "Let me be promised," she seemed to say, "that
I will never have any trouble or sorrow with my son and I will love him devotedly." Meanwhile
she went into every excitement that life could provide for her....

It was on a March afternoon of early Spring after a lonely tea (Clare was out at one of her
parties) that Peter went up to the nursery. He had just finished reading the second novel by
that Mr. Rondel whose Violet sensation had occurred some two years before. This second book
was good--there was no doubt about it--and Peter was ashamed of a kind of dim reluctance in
his acknowledgment of its quality. The fellow had had such reviews; the book, although less
sensational than its predecessor had hit the public straight in the middle of its susceptible
heart. Had young Rondel done it all with bad work-well, that was common enough--but the book
was good, uncommonly good.

He sent the nurse downstairs and began to build an elaborate fortress on the nursery floor.
The baby lay on his back on a rug by the fire and contemplated his woollen shoe which he slowly
dragged off and disdainfully flung away. Then, crowing to himself, he watched his father and
the world in general.

He was amazingly like Peter--the grey eyes, the mouth a little stern, a little sulky, the snub
nose, the arms a little short and thick, and that confident, happy smile.

He watched his father.

To him, lying on the rug, many, many miles away there was a coloured glory that ran round the
upper part of the wall--as yet, he only knew that they gave him, those colours, something of
the same pleasure that his milk gave him, that the warm, glowing, noisy shapes beyond the carpet
gave him, that the happy, comfortable smell of the Thing playing near him on the floor gave
him. About the Thing he was eternally perplexed. It was Something that made sounds that he
liked, that pressed his body in a way that he loved, that took his fingers and his toes and
made them warm and comfortable.

It was Something moreover from which delicious things hung--things that he could clutch and
hold and pull. He was perplexed but he knew that when this Thing was near him he was warm and
happy and contented and generally went to sleep. His eyes slowly travelled round the room and
rested finally upon a round blue ball that hung turning a little from side to side, on a nail
above, his bed. This was, to him, the final triumph of existence--to have it in his hand, to
roll it round and round, to bang it down upon the floor and watch it jump, this was the reason
why one was here, this the solution of all perplexities. He would have liked to have it in
his hands now, so crowing, he smiled pleasantly at the Thing on the floor beside him and then
looked at the ball.

Peter got up from his knees, fetched the ball down and rolled it along the floor. As it came
dancing, curving, laughing along young Stephen shrieked with delight. Would he have it in his
hands or would it escape him and disappear altogether? Would it come to him?... It came and
was clutched and held and triumphed over.

Peter sat down by his son and began to tell him about Cornwall. He often did this, partly because
the mere mentioning of names and places satisfied some longing in his heart, partly because
he wanted Cornwall to be the first thing that young Stephen would realise as soon as he realised
anything. "And you never can tell, you know, how soon a child can begin...."

Stephen, turning the blue ball round and round in his fingers, gravely listened. He was perfectly
contented. He liked the sounds that circled about him--his father's voice, the rustle of the
fire, the murmur of something beyond the walls that he could not understand.

"And then, you see, Stephen, if you go up the hill and round to the right you come to the market-place,
all covered with shiny cobbles and once a week filled with stalls where people sell things.
At the other end of it, facing you, there's an old Tower that's been there for ages and ages.
It's got a fruit stall underneath it now, but once, years ago there was fighting there and
men were killed. Then, if you go past it, and out to the right, you get into the road that
leads out of the town. It goes right above the sea and on a fine-day--"

"Peter!"

The voice broke like a stone shattering a sheet of glass. The ball dropped from young Stephen's
hands. He felt suddenly cold and hungry and wanted his woollen shoe. He was not sure whether
he would not cry. He would wait a moment and see how matters developed.

Peter jumped to his feet and faced Clare: Clare in a fur cap from beneath which her golden
hair seemed to burn in anger, from beneath which her eyes, furiously attacked his. Of course
she had heard him talking to the baby about Cornwall. They had quarrelled about it before ...
he had thought that she was at her silly tea-party. His face that had been, a few moments before,
gentle, humorous, happy, now suddenly wore the sullen defiance of a sulky boy.

Her breast was heaving, her little hands beat against her frock.

"He shan't," she broke out at last, "hear about it."

"Of all the nonsense," Peter answered her slowly. "Really, Clare, sometimes I think you're
about two years old--"

"He shan't hear about it," she repeated again. "You don't care--you don't care what I think
or what I say--I'm his mother--I have the right--"

The baby looked at them both with wondering eyes and to any outside observer would surely have
seemed the eldest of the three. Clare's breath came in little pants of rage--"You know--that
I hate--all mention of that place--those people. It doesn't matter to you--you never think of me--"

"At any rate," he retorted, "if you were up here in the nursery more often you would be able
to take care that Stephen's innocent ears weren't insulted with my vulgar conversation--"

It was then that he saw, behind Clare, in the doorway, the dark smiling face of Cards.

Cards came forward. "Really, you two," he said, laughing. "Peter, old man, don't be absurd--you
too, Clare" (he called her Clare now).

The anger died out of Clare's eyes: "Well, he knows I hate him talking about that nasty old
town to the baby--" Then, in a moment, she was smiling again--"I'm sorry, Peter. Cards is quite
right, and anyhow the baby doesn't understand--"

She stood smiling in front of him but the frown did not leave his face.

"Oh! it's all right," he said sullenly, and he brushed past them up the stairs, to his own room.

III

From the silence of his room he thought that he could hear them laughing about it downstairs.
"Silly old Peter--always getting into tempers--" Well, was he? And after all hadn't it been,
this time, her affair? Stephen and he had been happy enough before the others had come in.
What was this senseless dislike of Clare's to Cornwall? What could it matter to her? It was
always cropping up now. He could think of a thousand occasions, lately, when she had been roused
by it.

But, as he paced, with frowning face, back and forwards across the room, there was something
more puzzling still that had to be thought about. Why did they quarrel about such tiny things?
In novels, in good, reliable novels, it was always the big things about which people fought.
Whoever heard of two people quarrelling because one of them wanted to talk about Cornwall?
and yet it was precisely concerning things just as trivial that they were always now disputing.
Why need they quarrel at all? In the first year there had always been peace. Why shouldn't
there be peace now? Where exactly lay Clare's altered attitude to himself, to his opinions,
to the world in general. If he yielded to her demands--and he had yielded on many more occasions
than was good either for her or himself--she had, he fancied, laughed at him for being so easily
defeated. If he had not yielded then she had been, immediately, impossible....

And yet, after their quarrels, there had been the most wonderful, precious reconciliations,
reconciliations that, even now at his thought of them, made his heart beat faster. Now, soon,
when he went downstairs to dress for dinner, she would come to him, he knew, and beg most beautifully,
his pardon. But to-night it seemed suddenly that this kind of thing had happened too often
lately. He felt, poor Peter, bewildered. There seemed to be, on every side of him, so many
things that he was called upon to manage and he was so unable to manage any of them. He stopped
in his treading to and fro and stared at the long deal writing-table at which he always worked.

There, waiting for him, were the first chapters of his new novel, "Mortimer Stant." In the
same way, two years ago, he had stared at the early chapters of "The Stone House," on that
morning before he had gone to propose to Clare. Now there flashed through his mind the wonderful
things that he intended "Mortimer Stant" to be. It was to concern a man of forty (in his confident
selection of that age he displayed, most stridently, his own youth) and Mortimer was to be
a stolid, reserved Philistine, who was, against his will, by outside forces, dragged into an
emotional crisis.

At the back of his mind he had, perhaps, Maradick for his figure, but that was almost unconscious.
"Mortimer Stant" was to represent a wonderful duel between the two camps--the Artists and the
Philistines--with ultimate victory, of course, for the Artists. It was to be.... Well what
was it to be? At present the stolid Mortimer was hidden behind a phalanx of people--Clare,
young Stephen, Cards, Bobby, Mrs. Rossiter (tiresome woman), Alice Galleon--That was it. It
was hidden, hidden just as parts of "The Stone House" had been hidden, but hidden more deeply--a
regular jungle of interests and occupations was creeping, stealthily, stealthily upon him.

And then his eye fell upon an open letter that lay on his table, and, at the sight of it, he
was seized with a burning sense of shame. How could he have forgotten?

The letter ran--

My dear Mr. Westcott,

You have not been to see me for many months. Further opportunities may, by the hand of God,
be denied you.

Come if you can spare the time.

Henry Galleon.

The words were written, feebly almost illegibly, in pencil. Peter knew that Bobby had been,
for many weeks, very anxious concerning his father's health, and during the last few days he
had abandoned the City and spent all his time at home. That letter had come this very morning
and Peter had intended to go at once and inquire. The fact that he had left all these months
without going to see the old man rose before him now like an accusing hand. He deserved, indeed,
whatever the Gods might choose to send him, if he could so wilfully neglect his duty. But he
knew that there had been, in the back of his mind, shame. His work had not, so he might have
put it to himself, been good enough to justify his presence. There would have been questions
asked, questions that he might have found it difficult, indeed, to answer.

But now the sight of that letter immediately encouraged him. Henry Galleon, even though he
was too ill to talk, would put him right with all his perplexities, would give him courage
to cut through all these complications that had been gathering, lately, so thickly about him.
"This," the room seemed to whisper to him, "is your chance. After all, you are given this opportunity.
See him once before he dies and your fate will be shown you, clearly, honestly."

He stepped out of the house unperceived and was immediately conscious of the Spring night.
Spring--with a precipitancy and extravagance that seems to be--to own peculiar quality in London--had
leapt upon the streets.

The Embankment was bathed in the evening glow. Clouds, like bales of golden wool, sailed down
a sky so faintly blue that the white light of a departed sun seemed to glow behind it. The
lamps were crocus-coloured against black barges that might have been loaded with yellow primroses
so did they hint, through their darkness, at the yellow haze around them.

The silence was melodious; the long line of dark houses watched like prisoners from behind
their iron bars. They might expect, it seemed, the Spring to burst through the flagstones at
their feet.

Peter's heart was lightened of all its burden. He shared the glory, the intoxication of the
promise that was on every side of him. On such a night great ambitions, great ideals, great
lovers were created.

He saw Henry Galleon, from behind his window, watching the pageant. He saw him gaining new
life, getting up from his bed of sickness, writing anew his great masterpieces. And he saw
himself, Peter Westcott, learning at last from the Master the rule and discipline of life.
All the muddle, the confusion of this lazy year should be healed. He and Clare should see with
the same eyes. She should understand his need for work, he should understand her need for help.
All should be happiness and victory in this glorious world and he, by the Master's side, should...

He stopped suddenly. The house that had been Henry Galleon's was blank and dead.

At every window the blinds were down....

CHAPTER IX

WILD MEN

I

To Peter's immediate world it was a matter of surprise that he should take Henry Galleon's
death so hardly. It is a penalty of greatness that you should, to the majority of your fellow
men, be an Idea rather than a human being. To his own family Henry Galleon had, of course,
been real enough but to the outside world he was the author of "Henry Lessingham" and "The
Roads," whose face one saw in the papers as one saw the face of Royalty. Peter Westcott, moreover,
had not appeared, at any time, to take more than a general interest in the great man, and it
was even understood that old Mrs. Galleon and Millicent and Percival considered themselves
somewhat affronted because the Master had "been exceedingly kind to the young man. Taken trouble
about him, tried to know him, but young Westcott had allowed the thing to drop--had not been
near him during the last year."

Even Bobby and Alice Galleon were astonished at Peter's grief. To Bobby his father's death
came as a fine ending to a fine career. He had died, full of honour and of years. Even Bobby,
who thought that he knew his Peter pretty well by now, was puzzled.

"He takes it," Bobby explained to Alice, "as though it were a kind of omen, sees ever so much
more in it than any of us do. It seems that he was coming round the very evening that father
died to talk to him, and that he suddenly saw the blinds down; it was a shock to him, of course.
I think it's all been a kind of remorse working out, remorse not only for having neglected
my father but for having left other things--his work, I suppose, rather to look after themselves.
But he won't tell me," Bobby almost desperately concluded, "he won't tell me anything--he really
is the most extraordinary chap."

And Peter found it difficult enough to tell himself, did not indeed try. He only knew that
he felt an acute, passionate remorse and that it seemed to him that the denial of that last
visit was an omen of the anger of all the Gods, and even--although to this last he gave no
kind of expression--the malicious contrivance of an old man who waited for him down there in
that house by the sea. It was as though gates had been clanged in his face, and that as he
heard them close he heard also the jeering laughter behind them.... He had missed his chance.

He saw, instantly, that Clare understood none of this, and that, indeed, she took it all as
rather an affectation on his part, something in him that belonged to that side of him that
she tried to forget. She hated, quite frankly, that he should go about the house with a glum
face because an old man, whom he had never taken the trouble to go and see when he was alive,
was now dead. She showed him that she hated it.

He turned desperately to his work. There had been a hint, only the other day, from the newspaper
for which he wrote, that his reviews had not, lately, been up to his usual standard. He knew
that they seemed to him twice as difficult to do as they had seemed a year ago and that therefore
he did them twice as badly.

He flung himself upon his book and swore that he would dissipate the shadows that hid it from
him. One of the shadows he saw quite clearly was Cards' attitude to his work. It was strange,
he thought almost pathetically, how closely his feeling for Cards now resembled the feeling
that he had had, those years ago, at Dawson's. He still worshipped him--worship was the only
possible word--worshipped him for all the things that he, Peter, was not. One could not be
with him, Peter thought, one could not watch his movements, hear his voice without paying it
all the most absolute reverence. The glamour about Cards was, to Peter, something almost from
another world. Peter felt so clumsy, so rough and ugly and noisy and out-of-place when Cards
was present that the fact that Cards was almost always present now made life a very difficult
thing. How could Peter prevent himself from reverencing every word that Cards uttered when
one reflected upon the number of things that Cards had done, the things that he had seen, the
places to which he had been. And Cards' attitude to Peter's work was, if not actually contemptuous,
at least something very like it. He did not, he professed, read novels. The novelists' trade
at the best, he seemed to imply, was only a poor one, and that Peter's work was not altogether
of the best he almost openly asserted. "What can old Peter know about life?" one could hear
him saying--"Where's he been? Who's he known? Whatever in the world has he done?"

Against this, in spite of the glitter that shone about Cards' head, Peter might, perhaps, have
stood. He reminded himself, a hundred times a day, that one must not care about the things
that other people said, one must have one's eyes fixed upon the goal--one must be sure of oneself--what
had Galleon said?...

But there was also the effect of it all upon Clare to be considered. Clare listened to Cards.
She was, Peter gloomily considered, very largely of Cards' opinion. The two people for whom
he cared most in the world after young Stephen who, as a critic, had not yet begun to count,
thought that he was wasting his time.

Sometimes, as he sat at his deal table, fighting with a growing sense of disillusionment that
was like nothing so much as a child's first discovery that its beautiful doll is stuffed with
straw, he would wish passionately, vehemently for the return of those days when he had sat
in his little bedroom writing "Reuben Hallard" with Norah Monogue, and dear Mr. Zanti and even
taciturn little Gottfried, there to encourage him.

That had been Adventure--but this ...? And then he would remember young Stephen and Clare--moments
even lately that she had shared with him--and he would be ashamed.

II

It was on an afternoon of furious wind and rain in early April that the inevitable occurred.
All the afternoon the trees in the little orchard had been knocking their branches together
as though they were in a furious temper with Somebody and were indignant at not being allowed
to get at Him; they gave you the impression that it would be quite as much as your life would
be worth to venture into their midst.

Peter had, during a number of hours, endeavoured to pierce the soul of Mortimer Stant--meanwhile
as the wind howled, the rain lashed the windows of his room, and the personality of Mr. Stant
faded farther and farther away into ultimate distance, Peter was increasingly conscious that
he was listening for something.

He had felt himself surrounded by this strange sense of anticipation before. Sometimes it had
stayed with him for a short period only, sometimes it had extended over days--always it brought
with it an emotion of excitement and even, if he had analysed it sufficiently, fear.

He was suddenly conscious, in the naked spaces of his barely-furnished room, of the personality
of his father. So conscious was he that he got up from his table and stood at the rain-swept
window, looking out into the orchard, as though he expected to see a sinister figure creeping,
stealthily, from behind the trees. In his thoughts of his father there was no compunction,
no accusing scruples of neglect, only a perfectly concrete, active sense, in some vague way,
of force pitted against force.

It might be summed up in the conviction that "the old man was not done with him yet"--and as
Peter turned back from the window, almost relieved that he had, indeed, seen no creeping figure
amongst the dark trees, he was aware that never since the days of his starvation in Bucket
Lane, had he been so conscious of those threatening memories of Scaw House and its inhabitants.

At that, almost as he reached his table, there was a knock on his door.

"Come in," he cried and, scorning himself for his fears, faced the maid with staring eyes.

"Two gentlemen to see you, sir," she said. "I have shown them into the study."

"Is Mrs. Westcott in?"

"No, sir. She told me that she would not be back until six o'clock, sir."

"I will come down."

In the hall, hanging amongst the other things as a Pirate might hang beside a company of Evangelist
ministers, was Stephen Brant's hat....

As Peter's hand turned on the handle of the study door he knew that his heart was beating with
so furious a clamour that he could not hear the lock turn.

III

He entered the room and found Stephen Brant and Mr. Zanti facing him. The little window between
the dim rows of books showed him the pale light that was soon to succeed the storm. The two
men seemed to fill the little room; their bodies were shadowy and mysterious against the pale
colour, and Peter had the impression that the things in the room--the chairs, the books, the
table--huddled against the wall, so crowded did the place seem.

For himself, at his first sight of them, he was compelled, instantly, to check a feeling of
joy so overwhelming that he was himself astonished at the force of it. To them, as they stood
there, smiling, feeling that same emotion to which he, also, was now succumbing! He checked
himself. It was as though he were forced suddenly, by a supreme effort of will, to drive from
the room a tumultuous crowd of pictures, enthusiasms and memories, that, for the sake of the
present and of the future, must be forbidden to stay with him. It was absurd--he was a husband,
a father, a responsible householder, almost a personage... and yet, as he looked at Stephen's
eyes and Mr. Zanti's smile, he was the little boy back again in Tan's shop with the old suit
of armour, the beads and silver and Eastern cloths, and out beyond the window, the sea was
breaking upon the wooden jetty....

He put the picture away from him and rushed to greet the two of them. "Zanti!... Stephen!...
Oh! how splendid! How perfectly, perfectly splendid!"

Mr. Zanti's enormous body was enclosed in a suit of bright blue, his broad nose stood out like
a bridge, his wide mouth gaped. He wore white spats, three massive rings of twisted gold and
in his blue tie a glittering emerald. He was a magnificent, a costly figure and in nothing
was the geniality of his nature more plainly seen than in his obvious readiness to abandon,
at any moment, these splendid riches for the sake of a valued attachment. "I love wearing these
things," you might hear him say, "but I love still better to do anything in the world that
I can for you, my friend."

Stephen presented a more moderate appearance, but he was brown with health and shining with
strength. He was like the old Stephen of years and years ago, so different from the--man who
had shared with Peter that room in Bucket Lane.

He carried himself with that air of strong, cautious reserve that Cornishmen have when they
are in some other country than their own; his eyes, mild, gentle, but on the alert, ready at
an instant to be hostile. Then, when Peter came in, the reserve instantly fled. They had, all
three of them, perhaps, expected embarrassment, but at that cry of Peter's they were suddenly
together, Mr. Zanti, waving his hands, almost shouting, Stephen, his eyes resting with delight
on Peter, Peter himself another creature from the man who had pursued Mortimer Stant in the
room upstairs, half an hour before.

"We thought that ze time 'ad come, dear boy... we know zat you are busy." Mr. Zanti looked
about him a little anxiously, as though he expected to find Mrs. Peter hiding under a chair
or a sofa.

"Oh! Stephen, after all this long long while! Why didn't you come before when Mr. Zanti came?"

"Too many of us coming, Mr. Peter, and you so busy."

"Nonsense. I'm not in the least busy. I'm sorry to say my wife's out but the baby's in, upstairs,
and there's the most terrific woman up there too, the nurse--I'm frightened out of my life
of her--but we'll get rid of her and have the place to ourselves... you know the kid's called
after you, Stephen?"

"No, is he really?" Stephen's face shone with pleasure. "I'm keen to see him."

"Oh, he's a trump! There never really was such a baby."

"And your books, Mr. Peter?"

"Oh! the books!" Peter's voice dropped, "never mind them now. But what have you been doing,
you two? Made heaps of money? Discovered treasure?..." He pulled himself up shortly. He remembered
the bookshop, the girl leaning against the door looking into the street, then the boys crying
the news....

If Mr. Zanti had been mixing himself up with that sort of thing again! And then the bright
blue suit, the white spats, were reassuring. As if one could ever take such a child seriously
about anything!

Mr. Zanti shook his head, ruefully. "No, not ezackly a fortune! There was a place I 'eard of,
right up in the Basque country--'twas an old deserted garden, where zey 'ad buried treasure,
centuries ago--I 'ad it quite certainly from a friend. We came up there for a time but we found
nothing." He sighed and then was instantly cheered again. "But it's all right. I've got a plan
now--a wonderful plan." He became very mysterious. "It's a certain thing--we're off to Cornwall,
Mr. Brant and myself--"

"Cornwall?"

"Come too, Peter."

"Ah! don't I wish that I could!" He suddenly saw his life, his books--everything in London
holding him, tying him--"But I can't go now, my father being there makes it impossible. But
in any case, I'm a family man now--you know."

As he said the words he was conscious that, in Stephen's eyes at any rate, the family man was
about the last thing that he looked. He was wondering, with intense curiosity, what were the
things that Stephen was finding in him, for the things that Stephen found were most assuredly
the things that he was. No one knew him as Stephen knew him. Against his will the thought of
Clare came driving upon him. How little she knew him! or was it only that she knew another
side of him?

But he pulled himself away from that. "Now for the nursery--Stephen Secundus. But you'll have
to support me whilst I get rid of Mrs. Kant--perhaps three of us together--"

As he led the way upstairs he knew that Stephen was not entirely reassured about him.

Mrs. Kant was a large, busy woman, like a horse--a horse who dislikes other horses and sniffs
an enemy in every wind. She very decidedly sniffed an enemy now, and Mr. Zanti's blue suit
paled before her fierce eyes. He stepped back into the doorway again, treading upon Stephen.
Peter, who was always conscious that Mrs. Kant looked upon himself and Clare as two entirely
ridiculous and slightly impertinent children, stammered a little.

"You might go down and have your tea now, Mrs. Kant. I'll keep an eye upon Stephen."

"I've had my tea, thank you, sir."

"Well, I'll relieve you of the baby for a little." She was sewing. She snapped off a piece
of thread with a sharp click of her teeth, sat silently for a moment staring in front of her,
then quietly got up. "Thank you, sir," she said and left the room.

All three men breathed again as the door closed--then they were all conscious of young Stephen.

The thing was, of course, absurd, but to all three of them there came the conviction that the
baby had been laughing at them for their terror of Mrs. Kant. He was curled up on a chair by
the fire, looking at them with his wide eyes over his shoulder, and he seemed to say, "I don't
care a snap for the woman--why should you?" The blue ball was on the floor at the foot of the
chair, and the firelight leapt upon the frieze that Peter had so carefully chosen--giants and
castles, dwarfs and princesses running round the room in red, and blue and gold.

Young Stephen looked at them, puzzled for an instant, then with a shout he would have acclaimed
his father, but his gaze was suddenly arrested by the intense blueness of Mr. Zanti's clothes.
He stared at it, fascinated. Into his life there had suddenly broken the revelation that you
might have something far larger than the blue ball that moved and shone in so fascinating a
manner. His eyes immediately glittered with the thought that he would presently have the joy
of rolling something so big and shining along the floor. He could not bear to wait. His fat
fingers curved in the air with the eager anticipation of it--words, actual words had not as
yet come to him, but, crowing and gurgling, he informed the world that he wanted, he demanded,
instantly, that he should roll Mr. Zanti.

"Well, old man, how are you?" said Peter. But he would not look at his father. His arms stretched
toward Mr. Zanti.

"You've made a conquest right away, Zanti," Peter said laughing.

It was indeed instantly to be perceived that Mr. Zanti was in his right element. Any pretence
of any kind of age fell away from him, his arms curved towards young Stephen as young Stephen's
curved towards him. He was making noises in his throat that exactly resembled the noises that
the baby made.

He looked down gravely upon the chair--"'Ow do you do?" he said and he took young Stephen's
fat fingers in his hand.

"'E says," he remarked, looking at Peter and Stephen, "that 'e would like to roll me upon the
floor--like that ball there--"

"Well, let him," said Peter laughing.

The baby then dug his fingers into Mr. Zanti's hair and pulled down his head towards the chair,
intense satisfaction flooding his face as he did so.

The baby seemed, for a moment, to whisper into Mr. Zanti's ear, then, chuckling it climbed
down from the chair, and, on all fours, crawled, its eyes and mouth suddenly serious as though
it were conscious that it was engaged upon a very desperate adventure. The three men watched
it. Across the absolute silence of the room there came the sound of the rain driving upon the
pane, of the tumbling chatter of the fire, of the baby's hands falling upon the carpet.

Mr. Zanti was suddenly upon his knees. "Here," he cried, seizing the blue ball. He rolled it
to young Stephen. It was caught, dropped and then the fat fingers had flung themselves upon
Mr. Zanti's coat. He let himself go and was pulled back sprawling upon the floor, his huge
body stretching from end to end of the rug.

Then, almost before they had realised it, the other two men were down upon their knees. The
ball was picked up and tossed from hand to hand, the baby, sitting upon Mr. Zanti's stomach,
watched with delight these extraordinary events.

Then they played Hunt the Slipper, sitting round in a ring upon the carpet, young Stephen trying
to catch his own slipper, falling over upon his back, kicking his legs in the air, dashing
now at Stephen the Elder's beard, now at his father's coat, now at Mr. Zanti's legs.

The noise of the laughter drowned the rain and the fire. Mr. Zanti had the slipper--he was
sitting upon it. Peter made a dash for it, Mr. Zanti rolled over, they were all in a heap upon
the floor.

"I've got it." Mr. Zanti was off on all fours round the room, the baby on his back clutching
on to his hair. A chair was over, then a box of bricks, the table rocked and then was suddenly
down with a crash!

What had come to them all? Stephen, so grave, so solemn, had caught the baby into the air,
had flung him up and caught him again. Peter and Mr. Zanti looking up from the floor saw him
standing, his legs wide, his beard flowing, his arms stretched with young Stephen shouting
between them.

Behind him, around him was a wrecked nursery....

The baby, surveying the world from this sudden height, wondered at this amazing glory. He had
never before beheld from such a position the things that bounded his life. How strange the
window seemed! Through it now he could see the tops of the trees, the grey sky, the driving
lines of rain! Only a little way above him now were pictures that had always glowed before
from so great a distance. Around him, above him, below him space--a thing to be frightened
of were one not held so tightly, so safely.

He approved, most assuredly, of the banishment of Mrs. Kant, and the invasion of these splendid
Things! He would have life always like this, with that great blue ball to roll upon the floor,
with that brown beard, near now to his hand, to clutch, with none of that hideous soap-in-the-eyes-early-to-bed
Philosophy that he was becoming now conscious enough to rebel against.

He dug his hands into the beard that was close to him and, like the sons of the morning, shouted
with joy.

Peter, looking up at the two Stephens, felt his burdens roll off his back. If only things could
be like this always! And already he saw himself, through these two, making everything right
once more with Clare. They should prove to her that, after all, his past life had not been
so terrible, that Cornwall could produce heroes if it liked. Through these two he would get
fresh inspiration for his work. He felt already, through them, a wind blowing that cleared
all the dust from his brain.

And how splendid for the boy! To have two such men for his friends! Already he was planning
to persuade them to stay in London. He had thought of the very place for them in Chelsea, near
the Roundabout, the very house....

"Of course you'll stay for dinner, you two--"

"But--" said Mr. Zanti, mopping his brow from which perspiration was dripping.

"No, nonsense. Of course you'll stop. We've got such heaps to talk about--"

Stephen had got the baby now on his shoulder. "Off to Cornwall," he shouted and charged down
the room.

It was at that instant that Peter was conscious that Clare had been standing, for some moments,
in the room. She stood, quite silently, without moving, by the door, her eyes blazing at him....

His first thought was of that other time when she had found him in the nursery, of the quarrel
that they had had. Then he noticed the state of the room, the overturned chairs and table.
Then he saw Mr. Zanti still wiping his forehead, but confusedly, and staring at Clare in a
shocked hushed way, as though he were a small boy who had been detected with his fingers in
a jam-pot.

Stephen saw her at last. He put the baby down and came slowly across the floor. Peter spoke:
"Why, Clare! You're back early. We've been having such a splendid time with Stephen--let me
introduce my friends to you--Mr. Zanti and Mr. Brant... you've heard me speak of them--"

They came towards her. She shook hands with them, regarding them gravely.

"How do you do?"

There was silence. Then Mr. Zanti said--"We must be goin'--longer than we ought to stop--we
'ave business--"

Peter felt rising in him a cold and surging anger at her treatment of them. These two, the
best friends that he had in the world--that she should dare!

"Oh! you'll stay to dinner, you two! You must--"

"I'm afraid, ver' afraid," Mr. Zanti said bowing very low and still looking at Clare with apologetic,
troubled eyes, "we 'ave no time. Immediate business."

Still Clare said nothing.

There was another moment's silence, and then Peter said:

"I'll come down and see you off." Still without moving from her place she shook hands with them.

"Good-bye."

They all three went out.

Peter could say nothing. The words seemed to be choked in his throat by this tide of anger
that was like nothing he had ever felt before.

He held their hands for a moment as they stood outside in the dusk.

"Where are you staying? I must see you again--"

"We go down to Cornwall to-morrow."

Stephen caught Peter's shoulder:

"Come down to us, Peter, if you get a chance." They all stared at one another; they were all,
absolutely, entirely without words. Afterwards they would regret that they had said nothing,
but now--!

They vanished into the dusk and Peter, stepping into the house again, closed very softly the
hall door behind him.

CHAPTER X

ROCKING THE ROUNDABOUT

I

As he climbed, once more, the stairs to the nursery, he was conscious of the necessity for
a great restraint. Did he but relax for an instant his control he was aware that forces--often
dimly perceived and shuddered at--would now, as never in his life before, burst into freedom.

It was as though a whole life of joy and happiness had been suddenly snatched from him and
it was Clare who had robbed him--Clare who had never cared what the things might be that she
demanded from him--Clare who gave him nothing.

But his rage now, he also felt, was beyond all reason, something that belonged to that other
part of him, the part that Scaw House and its dark room understood and so terribly fostered.

He was afraid of what he might do.

II

On opening the nursery door he saw the straight, thin, shining back of Mrs. Kant as she bent
to put things straight. Young Stephen was quietly asleep. He closed the door, and, turning
in the narrow passage, found Clare coming out of her room. In the dim light they faced one
another, hostility flaming between them. She looked at him for a moment, her breast heaving,
her mouth so tight and sharp, her eyes so fierce that her little stature seemed to be raised
by her anger to a great height.

At that moment Peter felt that he hated her as he had never hated any one in his life before.

She went back, without a word, into her room.

She did not come down again that night and he had his evening meal, miserably, alone.

He slept in his dressing-room. Long before morning his rage had gone. He looked at her locked
door and wished, miserably, that he might die for her....

III

Later, as he sat, hopelessly, over the dim and sterile pages of "Mortimer Slant," Mrs. Rossiter
came, heavily, in to talk with him. Mrs. Rossiter always entered the room with an expression
of stupid benignity that hid a good deal of rather sharp perception. The fact that she was
not nearly so stupid as she looked enabled her to look all the stupider and she covered a multitude
of brains with a quantity of hard black silk that she spread out around her with the air of
one who is filling as much of the room as she can conveniently seize upon. Her plump arms,
her broad and placid bosom, her flat smooth face, her hair, entirely negative in colour and
arrangement, offered no clue whatever to her unsuspected sharpnesses. Smooth, broad, flat and
motionless she carried, like the Wooden Horse of Troy, a thousand dangers in the depths of
her placidity.

She had come now to assist her daughter, the only person for whom she may be said to have had
the slightest genuine affection, for Dr. Rossiter she had long-despised and Mrs. Galleon was
an ally and companion but never a friend. She had allowed Clare to marry Peter, chiefly because
Clare would have married him in any case, but also, a little, because she thought that Peter
had a great career in front of him. Now that Peter's career seemed already to be, for the most
part, behind him, she disliked him and because he appeared to have made Clare unhappy suddenly
hated him... but placidity was the shield that covered her attack and, for a symbol, one might
take the large flat golden brooch that she wore on her bosom--flat, expressionless and shining,
with the sharpest pin behind it that ever brooch possessed.

Peter, whose miseries had accumulated as the minutes passed, was ready to seize upon anything
that promised a reconciliation. He did not like Mrs. Rossiter--he had never been able to get
to close quarters with her, and he was conscious that his roughness and occasional outbursts
displeased her. He felt, too, that the qualities that he had resented in Clare owed their origin
to her mother. That brooch of hers was responsible for a great deal.

Fixing his eyes upon it he said, "You've come about Clare?"

"Yes, Peter." Mrs. Rossiter settled herself more comfortably, spread her skirts, folded her
hands. "She's very unhappy."

The mild eyes baffled him.

"I'm terribly sorry. I will do anything I can, but I think--that I had a right"--he faltered
a little; it was so like talking to an empty Dairy--"had a right to mind. Two old friends of
mine--two of the best friends that I have in the world were here yesterday and Clare--"

"I don't think," the soft voice broke in upon him whilst the eyes searched his body up and
down, "that, even now, Peter, you quite understand Clare--"

"No," he said eagerly, "I know. I'm blundering, stupid. Lots of times I've irritated her, and
now again." He paused, but then added, with a touch of his old stubbornness--"But they were
friends of mine--she should have treated them so."

Mrs. Rossiter felt that she did indeed hate the young man.

"Clare is very unhappy," she repeated. "She tells me that she has been crying all night. You
must remember, Peter, that her life has been very different to yours--"

He wished that she would not repeat herself; he wished that she would not always use the same
level voice; he wanted insanely to tell her that she ought to say "different from"--he could
not take his eyes from the brooch. But the thought of Clare came to him and he bowed himself
once more humbly.

"I will see that things are better," he said earnestly. "I don't know what has been the matter
lately--my work and everything has been wrong, and I expect my temper has been horrible. You
know," he said with a little crooked smile, "that I've got to work to keep it all going, and
when I'm writing badly then my temper goes to pieces."

Mrs. Rossiter, with no appearance of having heard anything that he had said, continued--

"You know, Peter, that your temperament is very different to Clare's. You are, and I know you
will forgive my putting it so plainly, a little wild still--doubtless owing to your earlier
years. Clare is gentle, bright, happy. She has never given my husband or myself a moment's
trouble, but that is because we understood her nature. We knew that she loved people about
her to be happy--she flourished in the sun, she drooped under the clouds... under the clouds"
Mrs. Rossiter repeated again softly, as she searched, with care, for her next words.

Irritation was rising within Peter. Why should it be concluded so inevitably that the fault
was all on Peter's side and not at all on Clare's--after all, there were reasons... but he
pulled himself up. He had behaved like a beast.

"I've tried very hard--" he began.

"Clouds--" said Mrs. Rossiter. "And you, Peter, are at times--I have seen it myself and I know
that it is apparent to others--inclined to be morose--gloomy, a little gloomy--" Her fingers
tapped the silk of her dress. "Dear Clare, considering what her own life has been, shrinks,
I must confess it seems to me quite naturally, from any reminder of what your own earlier circumstances
have been. Look at it, Peter, for an instant from the outside and you will see, at once, I
am sure, what it must have been to her, yesterday, to come into her nursery, to find tables,
chairs overturned, strange men shouting and flinging poor little Stephen towards the ceiling--some
talk about Cornwall--really, Peter, I think you can understand..."

He abandoned all his defences. "I know--I ought to have realised... it was quite natural..."

In the back of his head he heard her words "You're morose--you're wild. Other people find you
so--you're making a mess of everything and every one knows it--"

He was humbled to the dust. If only he might make it all right with Clare, then he would see
to it--Oh! yes he would see to it--that nothing of this kind ever happened again. From Mrs.
Rossiter's standpoint he looked back upon his life and found it all one ignoble, selfish muddle.
Dear Clare!--so eager to be happy and he had made her miserable.

"Will she forgive me?"

"Dear Clare," said Mrs. Rossiter, rising brightly and with a general air of benevolence towards
all the sinners in existence, "is the most forgiving creature in the world."

He went down to her bedroom and found her lying on a sofa and reading a novel.

He fell on his knees at her side--"Clare--darling--I'm a beast, a brute--"

She suddenly turned her face into the cushions and burst into passionate crying. "Oh! it's
horrible--horrible--horrible--"

He kissed her hand and then getting on to his feet again, stood looking at her awkwardly, struggling
for words with which to comfort her.

IV

And then at luncheon, there was a little, pencilled feeble note for Peter from Norah Monogue.
"Please, if you can spare half an hour come to me. In a day or two I am off to the country."

Things had just been restored to peace and happiness--Clare had just proposed that they should
go, that afternoon, to a Private View together--they might go and have tea with--

For an instant he was tempted to abandon Norah. Then his courage came:--

"Here's a note from Miss Monogue," he said. "She's awfully ill I think, I ought--"

Clare's face hardened again. She got up from the table--

"Just as you please--" she said.

He climbed on to the omnibus that was to stumble with him down Piccadilly with a. hideous,
numbing sense of being under the hand of Fate. Why, at this moment, in all time, should this
letter of Norah Monogue's have made its unhappy appearance? With what difficulty and sorrow
had he and Clare reached once more a reconciliation only, so wantonly, to be plucked away from
it again! From the top of his omnibus he looked down upon a sinister London. It was a heavy,
lowering day; thick clouds like damp cloths came down upon the towers and chimneys. The trees
in the Green Park were black and chill and in and out of the Clubs figures slipped cautiously
and it seemed furtively. Just beyond the Green Park they were building a vast hotel, climbing
figures and twisting lines of scaffolding pierced the air, and behind the rolling and rattling
of the traffic the sound of many hammers beat rhythmically, monotonously....

To Peter upon his omnibus, suddenly that sound that he had heard before--that sound of London
stirring--came back to him, and now more clearly than he had ever known it. Tap-tap-tap-tap...
Clamp-clamp-tap-tap-tap-tap--whir! whir!... Clamp-clamp....

It seemed to him that all the cabs and the buses and the little black figures were being hurried
by some power straight, fast, along Piccadilly to be pitched, at the end of it, pell-mell,
helter-skelter into some dark abysmal pit, there to perish miserably.

Yes, the beast was stirring! Ever so little the pavements, the houses were heaving. Perhaps
if one could see already the soil was cracking beneath one's feet. "Look out! London will have
you in a minute." The houses were ghosts and the people were ghosts, and grey shadows, soon
perhaps to be a yellow fog, floated about the windows and the doors and muffled all human sounds.

He passed the great pile of scaffolding, saw iron girders shining, saw huge cranes swinging
in mid-air, saw tiny, tiny black atoms perched above the noise and swallowed by the smoke...
tap-tap-clamp-clamp....

Yes, the beast was moving... and, out and in, lost and then found again, crept that twisting
chain of beggars to whose pallid army Peter himself had once so nearly belonged.

"I suppose I've got a headache after all that row with Clare," Peter thought as he climbed
off the omnibus.

V

He realised, as he came into the Bloomsbury square, and saw Mrs. Brockett gloomily waiting
for him, that the adventures of his life were most strangely bound together. Not for an instant
did he seem to be able to escape from any one of them. Now it would be Cornwall, now the Bookshop,
now Stephen, now Mr. Zanti, now Bucket Lane, now Treliss--all of them interweaving, arresting
his action at every moment. Because he had done that once now this must not be permitted him;
he felt, as he rang the old heavy bell of Brockett's that his head would never think clearly
again. As the door opened and he stepped into the hall he heard, faintly, across the flat spaces
of the Square "Tap-tap-tap-tap-clamp-clamp...."

Even Mrs. Brockett, who might be considered if any one in the world, immune from morbid imaginations,
felt the heaviness of the day, suggested a prevalence of thunder, and shook her head when Peter
asked about Miss Monogue.

"She's bad, Mr. Peter, very bad, poor dear. There's no doubt about that. It's hard to see what
can be done for her--but plucky! That's a small word for it!"

"I'm sure she is," said Peter, feeling ashamed of having made so much of his own little troubles.

"She must get out of London if she's to improve at all. In a week or two I hope she'll be able
to move."

"How's every one else?"

"Oh, well enough." Mrs. Brockett straightened her dress with her beautiful hands in the old
familiar way-- "But you're not looking very hearty yourself, Mr. Peter."

"Oh! I'm all right," he answered smiling; but she shook her head after him as she watched him
go up the stairs.

And then he was surprised. He came into Norah Monogue's room and found her sitting up by her
window, looking better than he had ever seen her. Her face was full of colour and her eyes
bright and smiling. Only on her hands the blue veins stood out, and their touch, when she shook
hands with him, was hot and burning.

But he was reassured; Mrs. Brockett had exaggerated and made the worst of it all.

"You're looking splendid--I'm so glad. I was afraid from your letter-"

"Oh! I really am getting on," she broke in gaily, "and it's the nicest boy in the world that
you are to come in and see me so quickly. Only on a day like this London does just lie heavily
upon one doesn't it? and one just longs for the country--"

A little breath of a sigh escaped from her and she looked through her window at the dim chimneys,
the clouds hanging like consolidated smoke, the fine, thin dust that filtered the air.

"You're looking tired yourself, Peter. Working too hard?"

"No," he shook his head. "The work hasn't been coming easily at all. I suppose I've been too
conscious, lately, of the criticisms every one made about 'The Stone House.' I don't believe
one ought really to listen to anybody and yet it's so hard not to, and so difficult to know
whose opinion one ought to take if one's going to take anybody's. I wish," he suddenly brought
out, "Henry Galleon were still alive. I could have followed him."

"But why follow anybody?"

"Ah! that's just it. I'm beginning to doubt myself and that's why it's getting so difficult."

Her eyes searched his face and she saw, at once, that he was in very real trouble. He looked
younger, just then, she thought, than she had ever seen him, and she felt herself so immensely
old that she could have taken him into her arms and mothered him as though he'd been her own son.

"There are a lot of things the matter," she said. "Tell me what they all are."

"Well," he said slowly, "I suppose it's all been mostly my own fault--but the real difficulty
is that I don't seem to be able to run the business of being married and the business of writing
together. I don't think Clare in the least cares now about my writing--she almost resents it;
she cared at first when she thought that I was going to make a huge success of it, but now--"

"But, of course," said Miss Monogue, "that success comes slowly--it must if it's going to be
any use at all--"

"Well, she doesn't see that. And she wants me to go out to parties and play about all the time--and
then she doesn't want me to be any of the things that I was before I met her. All my earlier
life frightens her--I suppose," he suddenly ended, "I want her to be different and she wants
me to be different and we can't make a compromise."

Then Miss Monogue said: "Have any outside people interfered at all?"

Peter coloured. "Well, of course, Mrs. Rossiter stands up for Clare. She came and talked to
me this morning and I think the things that she said were quite true. I suppose I am morose
and morbid sometimes--more than I realise--and then," he added slowly, "there's Cards--"

"Cards?"

"Cardillac--a man I was at school with. I'm very fond of him. He's the best friend I've got,
and he's been all over the place and done everything and, of course, knows ever so much more
about the world than I do. The fact is he thinks really that my novels are dreadful nonsense,
only he's much too kind to say so--and, of course, Clare looks up to him a lot. Although he's
only my own age he seems so much older than both Clare and myself. I don't believe she'd have
lost interest in my work so quickly if he hadn't influenced her--and he's influenced me too--"
Peter added sighing.

"Well--and is there anything else?"

"Yes. There's Stephen. I can't begin to tell you how I love that kid. There haven't been many
people in my life that I've cared about and I've never realised anything so intensely before.
Besides," he went on laughing proudly, "he's such a splendid kid! I wish you could see him,
Norah. He'll do something one day--"

"Well, what's the trouble about Stephen?"

"Clare's so odd about him. There are times when I don't believe she cares for him the least
little bit. Then there are other times when she resents fiercely my interfering about him.
Sometimes she seems to love him more than anything in the world, but it's always in an odd
defiant way--just as though she were afraid that something would hurt her if she showed that
she cared too much."

There was silence between them for a minute and then Peter summed it all up with:--"The fact
is, Norah, that every sort of thing's getting in between me and my work and worries me. It's
as though I were tossing more balls in the air than I could possibly manage. At one moment
I think it's Clare that I've got especially to hang on to--another time it's the book--and
then it's Stephen. The moment I've settled down something turns up to remind me of Cornwall
or the Bookshop. Fact is I'm getting battered at by something or other and I never can get
my breath. I oughtn't ever to have married--I'm not up to it."

Norah Monogue took his hand.

"You are up to it, Peter, but I expect you've got a lot to go through before you're clear of
things. Now I'm going to be brutal. The fact is that you're too self-centred. People never
do anything in the world so long as they are wondering whether the world's going to hurt them
or no. Those early years of yours made you morbid. You've got a temper and one or two other
things that want a lot of holding down and that takes up your attention--And then Clare isn't
the woman to help you--"

Peter was about to break in but she went on:--'"Oh! I know my Clare through and through. She's
just as anxious as you are not to be hurt by anything and so she's being hurt all the time.
She's out for happiness at any cost and you're out for freedom--freedom from every kind of
thing--and because both of you are denied it you are restive. But you and Clare are both people
whose only salvation is in being hurt and knocked about and bruised to such an extent that
they simply don't know where they are. Oh! I know--I'm exactly the same sort of person myself.
We can thank the Gods if we are knocked about--"

Suddenly she paused and, falling back in her chair, put her hand to her breast, coughing. Something
seized her, held her in its grip, tossed her from side to side, at last left her white, speechless,
utterly exhausted. It had come so suddenly that it had taken Peter entirely by surprise. She
lay back now, her eyes closed, her face a grey white.

He ran to the door and called Mrs. Brockett. She came and with an exclamation hurried away
for remedies.

Peter suddenly felt his hand seized--a hoarse whisper was in his ear--"Peter--dear--go--at--once--I
can't bear--you--to see me--like this. Come back--another day."

He knelt, moved by an affection and tenderness that seemed stronger than any emotion he had
ever known, and kissed her. She whispered:

"Dear boy--"

On his way back to Chelsea, the orange lamps, the white streets powdered with the evening glow,
the rustling plane trees whispered to him, "You've got to be knocked about--you've got to be
knocked about--you've got to be knocked about--" but the murmur was no longer sinister.

Still thinking of Norah, he went up to the nursery to see the boy in bed. He remembered that
Clare was going out alone to a party and that he would have the evening to himself.

On entering the room, dark except for a nightlight by the boy's bed, some unknown fear assailed
him. He was instantly, at the threshold, conscious of it. He stood for a moment in silence.
Then realised what it was. The boy was moaning in his sleep.

He went quickly over to the cot and bent down. Stephen's cheeks were flaming, his hands very hot.

Peter rang the bell. Mrs. Kant appeared.

"Is there anything the matter with Stephen?"

Mrs. Kant looked at him, surprised, a little offended. "He's had a little cold all day, sir.
I've kept him indoors."

"Have you taken his temperature?"

"Yes, sir, nothing at all unusual. He often goes up and down."

"Have you spoken to your mistress?"

"Yes, sir. She agrees with me that there is nothing unusual--"

He brushed past the woman and went to his wife's bedroom.

She was dressed and was putting on a string of pearls, a wedding present from her father. She
smiled up at him--

"Clare, do you know Stephen's ill?"

"No, it's only a cold. I've been up to see him--"

He took her hand--she smiled up at him--"Did you enjoy your visit?" She fastened the necklace.

"Clare, stay in to-night. It may be nothing but if the boy got worse--"

"Do you want me to stay?"

"Yes."

"I wanted you to go with me this afternoon--"

"That was different. The boy may be really ill--"

"You didn't do what I wanted this afternoon. Why should I do what you want now?"

"Clare, stay. Please, please--"

She took her hand gently out of his, and, as she went out of the door switched off the electric
light.

He heard the opening of the hall door and, standing where she had left him in the dark bedroom,
saw, shining, laughing at him, her eyes.

CHAPTER XI

WHY?

I

There are occasions in our life when the great Wave so abruptly overwhelms us that before we
have recovered our dazed senses it has passed and the water on every side of us is calm again.

There are other occasions when we stand, it may seem through a lifetime of anticipation bracing
our backs for the inevitable moment. Every hour before it comes is darkened, every light is
dimmed by its implacable shadow. Then when at last it is upon us we meet it with an indifference,
almost with a relief, because it has come at last.

So was it now with Peter. During many weeks he had been miserable, apprehensive, seeing an
enemy in every wind. Now, behold, his adversary in the open.

"This," he might cry to that old man, down in Scaw House, "this is what you have been preparing
for me, is it? At last you've shown me--well, I'll fight you."

Young Stephen was very ill. Peter was strangely assured that it was to be a bad business. Well,
it rested with him, Peter, to pull the boy through. If he chose to put his back into it and
give the kid some of his own vigour and strength then it was bound to be all right.

Standing there in the dark, he stripped his mind naked; he flung from it every other thought,
every other interest--his work, Clare, everything must go. Only Stephen mattered and Stephen
should be pulled through.

For an instant, a little cold trembling fear struck his heart. Supposing ...? Then fiercely,
flinging the thought from him he trampled it down.

He went to the telephone and called up a doctor who lived in Cheyne Walk. The man could be
with him in a quarter of an hour.

Then he went back into the nursery. Mrs. Kant was there.

"I've sent for Dr. Mitchell."

"Very well, sir."

"He'll be here in quarter of an hour."

"Very well, sir."

He hated the woman. He would like to take her thin, bony neck and wring it.

He went over to the cot and looked down. The little body outlined under the clothes was so
helpless, the little hands, clenched now, were so tiny; he was breathing very fast and little
sounds came from between his teeth, little struggling cries.

Peter saw that moment when Stephen the Elder had held Stephen the younger aloft in his arms.
The Gods appear to us only when we claim to challenge their exultation. They had been challenged
at that moment.... Young Stephen against the Gods! Surely an unequal contest!

II

Dr. Mitchell came and instantly the struggle was at its height. Appendicitis. As they stood
over the cot the boy awoke and began to cry a little, turned his head from side to side as
though to avoid the light, beating with his hands on the counterpane.

"I must send for a nurse at once," Dr. Mitchell said.

"Everything is in your hands," Peter answered.

"You'd better go down and have something to eat."

The little cry came trembling and pitiful, driving straight into Peter's heart.

"Temperature 105--pretty bad." Mitchell, who was a stout, short man with red cheeks, grey eyes
and the air of an amiable Robin, was transformed now into something sharp, alert, official.

Peter caught his arm--

"It's all right?... you don't think--?"

The man turned and looked at him with eyes so kind that Peter trembled.

"Look here, we've got to fight it, Westcott. I ought to have been called hours ago. But keep
your head and we'll pull the child through.... Better go down and have something to eat. You'll
need it."

Outside the door Peter faced a trembling Mrs. Kant.

"Look here, you lied just now. You never took the boy's temperature."

"Well, sir--"

"Did you or not?"

"Well, sir, Mrs. Westcott said there was no need. I'm sure I thought--"

"You leave the house now--at once. Go up and pack your things and clear out. If I see you here
in an hour's time the police shall turn you out."

The woman began to cry. Peter went downstairs. To his own surprise he found that he could eat
and drink. Of so fundamental an importance was young Stephen in his life that the idea that
he could ever lose him was of an absurd and monstrous incredibility. No, of that there was
no question--but he was conscious nevertheless of the supreme urgency of the occasion. That
young Stephen had ever been delicate or in any way a weakling was a monstrous suggestion. Always
when one thought of him it was a baby laughing, tumbling--or thoughtfully, with his hand rolled
tightly inside his father's, taking in the world.

Just think of all the tottering creatures who go on and on and snap their fingers at death.
The grotesque old men and women! Or think of the feeble miserables who never know what a day's
health means--crowding into Davos or shuddering on the Riviera!

And young Stephen, the strongest, most vital thing in the world! Nevertheless, suddenly, Peter
found that he could eat and drink no more. He put the food aside and went upstairs again.

In the darkened nursery he sat in a chair by the fire and waited for the hours to pass. The
new nurse had arrived and moved quietly about the room. There was no sound at all save the
monotonous whispering beseeching little cries that came from the bed. One had heard that concentration
of will might do so much in the directing of such a battle, and surely great love must help.
Peter, as he sat in the half-darkness thought that he had never before realised his love for
the boy--how immense it was--how all-pervading, so that if it were taken from him life would
be instantly broken, without colour, without any rhythm or force.

As he sat there he thought confusedly of a great number of things of his own childhood--of
his mother--of a boy at Dawson's who had asked him once as they gazed up at a great mass of
apple blossoms in bloom, "Do you think there is anything in all that stuff about God anyway,
Westcott?"--of a night when he had gone with some loose woman of the town and of the wet miry
street that they had left behind them as she had closed the door--of that night at the party
when he had seen Cardillac again--of the things that Maradick had said to him that night when
young Stephen was born--and so from that to his own life, his own birth, his father, Scaw House,
the struggle that it had all been.

He remembered a sentence out of a strange novel of Dostoieffsky's that he had once read, "The
Brothers Karamazoff": "It's a feature of the Karamazoffs ... that thirst for life regardless
of everything--" and the Karamazoffs were of a sensual, debased stock--rotten at the base of
them with an old drunken buffoon of a father--yes, that was like the Westcotts. All his life,
struggle ... and young Stephen--all his life, struggle... and yet, even in the depths of degradation,
if the fight were to go that way there would still be that lust for life.

So many times he had been almost under. First Stephen Brant had saved him, then at Brockett's
Norah Monogue, then in Bucket Lane his illness, then in Chelsea his marriage, lately young
Stephen... always, always something had been there to keep him on his feet. But if everything
were taken from him, if he were absolutely, nakedly alone--what then? Ah, what then!

He buried his head in his hands. "God, you don't know what young Stephen is to me--or, yes,
of course you do know, God--and because you do know, you will not take him from me."

The little tearing pain at his heart held him--every now and again it turned like some grinding
key.

Mitchell entered with another doctor. Peter went over to the window, and whilst they made their
examination, stared through the glass at the fretwork of trees, the golden haze of London beyond,
two stars that now, when the storm had spent itself, showed in a dark dim sky. Very faintly
the clanging note of trams, the clatter of a hansom cab, the imperative call of some bell came
to him.

The world could thus go on! Mitchell crossed to him and put his hand on his shoulder--

"He's pretty bad, Westcott. An operation's out of the question I'm afraid. But if you'd like
another opinion--"

"No thanks. I trust you and Hunt." The doctor could feel the boy's body trembling beneath his
touch.

"It's all right, Westcott. Don't be frightened. We'll do all mortals can. We'll know in the
early morning how things are going to be. The child's got a splendid constitution."

He was interrupted by the opening of the nursery door and, turning, the men saw Clare with
the light of the passage at her back, standing in the doorway. Her cloak was trailing on the
floor--around her her pink filmy dress hung like shadows from the light behind her. Her face
was white, her eyes wide.

"What--?" she whispered in the voice of a frightened child.

Peter crossed the room, and took her with him into the passage, closing the door behind him.

She clung to him, looking up into his face.

"Stephen's very bad, dear. No, it's something internal--"

"And I went out to a party?" her voice was trembling, she was very near to tears. "But I was
miserable, wretched all the time. I wanted to come back, I knew I oughtn't to have gone....
Oh Peter, will he die? Oh! poor little thing! Poor little thing!"

Even at that moment, Peter noticed, she spoke as though it were somebody else's baby.

"No, no, dear. It'll be all right. Of course it will. Mitchell's here, he'll pull him through.
But you'd better go and lie down, dear. I promise to come and tell you if anything's the matter.
You can't do any good--there's an excellent nurse!"

"Where's Mrs. Kant?"

"I dismissed her this evening for lying to me. Go to bed. Clare--really it's the best thing."

She began to cry with her hands up to her face, but she went, slowly, with her cloak still
trailing after her, to her room.

She had not, he noticed, entered the nursery.

III

He went back and sat down again in the arm-chair by the fire. Poor Clare! he felt only a great
protecting pity for her--a strange feeling, compounded of emotions that were unexpectedly confused.
A feeling that was akin to what he would have felt had she been his sister and been insulted
by some drunken blackguard in the street. Poor Clare! She was so young--simply not up to these
big grown-up troubles.

Those little cries had ceased--only every now and again an echo of a moan--so slight was the
sound that broke the silence. The hours advanced and there settled about the house that chilly
ominous sense of anticipation that the early morning brings in its grey melancholy hands. It
was a little house but it was full, now, of expectancy. Up the stairs, through the passages,
pressing against the windows there were many presences waiting for the moment when the issue
of this struggle would be decided. The air was filled with their chill breath. The struggle
round the bed was at its height. On one side doctors, nurses, the father, the mother--on the
other that still, ironic Figure, in His very aloofness so strong, in His indifference so terrible.

With Peter, as the grey dawn grew nearer, confidence fled. He was suddenly conscious of the
strength and invisibility of the thing that he was fighting. He must do something. If he were
compelled to sit, silently, quietly, with his hands folded, much longer, he would go mad. But
it was absurd--Stephen, about whom he had made so many plans, Stephen, concerning whom there
had been that struggle to bring about his very existence ... surely all that was not now to
go for nothing at all.

If he could do something--if he could do something!

There were drops of sweat on his forehead--inside his clothes his body was hot and dry and
had shrunk, it seemed, into some tiny shape, like a nut, so that his things hung loosely all
about him.

He could not bear that dark cavernous nursery, with the faint lights and the stairs and passages
beyond it so crowded with urgent silence!

He caught Mitchell on the shoulder.

"How is it?"

"Oh! we're fighting it. It's the most rapid thing I've ever known. If we only could have operated!
Look here, go and lie down for a bit--I'll let you know if there's any change!"

He went to his dressing-room, all ghostly now with the first struggling light of dawn. He closed
the door behind him and then fell down on his knees by the bed, pressing his face into his hands.

He prayed: "Oh! God, God, God. I have never wanted anything like this before but Stephen is
more to me, much, much more to me than anything that I have ever had--more, far more than my
own life. I haven't much to offer but if you will let me keep Stephen you can have all the
rest. You can send me back to Bucket Lane, take my work, anything ... I want Stephen ... I
want Stephen. God, he is such a good boy. He has always been good and he will make such a fine
man. There won't be many men so fine as he. He's good as gold. God I will die myself if he
may live, I'm no use. I've made a mess of things--but let him live and take me. Oh! God I want
him, I want him!"

He broke into sobs and was bowed down there on the floor, his body quivering, his face pressed
against the bed.

He was conscious that Clare had joined him. She must have heard him from her room. He tried
as he felt her body pressed against his, to pull himself together, but the crying now had mastered
him and he could only feel her pushing with her hand to find his--and at last he let her take
his hand and hold it.

He heard her whisper in his ear.

"Peter dear, don't--don't cry like that. I can't bear to hear you like that. I'm so miserable,
Peter. I've been so wicked--so cross and selfish. I've hurt you so often--I'm going to be better,
Peter. I am really."

At that moment they might have come together with a reality, an honesty that no after-events
could have shaken. But to Peter Clare was very far away. He was not so conscious of her as
he was of those presences that thronged the house. What could she do for him now? Afterwards
perhaps. But now it was Stephen--Stephen--Stephen--

But he let her hold his hand and he felt her hair against his cheek, and at last he put his
arm around her and held her close to him, and she, with her face against his, went fast asleep.
He looked down at her. She looked so young and helpless that the sight of her leaning, tired
and beaten, against him, touched him and he picked her up, carried her into her room and laid
her on her bed.

How light and tiny she was!

He was conscious of his own immense fatigue. Mitchell had told him that he would wake him;
good fellow, Mitchell! He lay down on the bed in his dressing-room and was instantly asleep.

He was outside Scaw House. He was mother-naked and the howling wind and rain buffeted his body
and the stones cut his feet. The windows of the house were dark and barred. He could just reach
the lower windows with his hands if he stood on tiptoe.

He tapped again and again.

He was tired, exhausted. He had come a long, long way and the rain hurt his bare flesh. At
last a candle shone dimly behind the dark window. Some one was there, and instantly at the
moment of his realising that aid had come he was conscious also that he must, on all accounts,
refuse it. He knew that if he entered the house Stephen would die. It depended on him to save
Stephen. He turned to flee but his father had unbarred the door and was drawing him in. He
struggled, he cried out, he fought, but his father was stronger than he. He was on the threshold--he
could see through the dark ill-smelling hall to the door beyond. His father's hand fastened
on his arm like a vice. His body was bathed in sweat, he screamed ... and woke to find the
room dim in the morning light and Mitchell shaking him by the arm.

IV

He was still dreaming. Now he was in the nursery. Clare was kneeling by Stephen's bed. One
doctor was bending down--the nurse was crying very softly.

He looked down on his son. As he looked the little face was, for an instant, puckered with
pain. The mouth, the eyes, the throat struggled.

The tiny hands lifted for a moment, hung, and then like fluttering leaves, fell down on to
the counterpane. Then the body was suddenly quiet, the face was peaceful and the head had fallen
gently, sideways against the pillow.

At that moment of time, throughout the house, the Presences departed. The passages, the rooms
were freed, the air was no longer cold.

At that moment also Peter awoke. Mitchell said: "The boy's gone, Westcott."

Peter, turning his back upon them all, drove from him, so softly that they could scarcely hear,
but in a voice of agony that Mitchell never afterwards forgot:--

"I wanted him so--I wanted him so."

CHAPTER XII

A WOMAN CALLED ROSE BENNETT

I

The days that followed were dead--dead in more than any ordinary sense of the word. But perhaps
it was Peter who was dead. He moved, ate, drank, even wrote his reviews, slept--he thanked
gravely all those who offered him condolences--wrote letters in answer to kind friends....
"Dear S---- It was just like you to write so kindly and sympathetically...." And all this time
he was without any kind of emotion. He was aware that there was something in the back of his
brain that, were it once called upon to awake, might stir him into life again. What it would
tell him he did not know, something about love, something intensely sorrowful, something that
had occurred very probably to himself. He did not want to live--to think, to feel. Thinking
meant pain, meant a sudden penetrating into that room shrouded now by heavy, black curtains
but containing, were those curtains drawn, some great, phantasmal horror.

He was dimly aware that the people about him were frightened. Clare, Bobby Galleon, Cardillac.
He knew that they would be glad for him to draw those curtains aside and penetrate into that
farther room. That was unkind of them. He had no other emotion but that it was unkind of them.
Beyond that unkindness, they did not exist.

He was thinner. His shoulders seemed to pierce sharply his clothes; his cheeks were white and
hollow, there were dark lines beneath his eyes, dark, grey patches. His legs were not so straight,
nor so strong. Moreover his eyes were as though they were covered with a film. Seeing everything
they yet saw nothing at all. They passed through the world and were confronted by the heavy,
veiling curtains....

This condition lasted for many days. Of all about him none understood him so well as Bobby
Galleon. Bobby had always understood him, and now he felt for him with a tenderness that had
both the past and the future to heighten its poignancy. It seemed to Bobby that nothing more
tragic than the death of this child could possibly have occurred. It filled him with anxiety
for the future, it intensified to a depth that only so simple and affectionate a character
as his could feel, the love that he had always had for Peter.

He was with him during these days continually, waiting for the relief to come.

"It's got to come soon," he said, "or the boy'll go mad."

At last it came.

One day about tea-time they were sitting in Peter's upstairs study. It had been a day of showers
and now the curtains were not drawn and a green-grey dusk glimmered beyond the windows.

Peter was writing letters, and as Bobby watched him he seemed to him like some automaton, something
wound into life by some clever inventor. The hand moved across the paper--the dead eyes encountered
nothing in their gaze, the shoulders were the loosely drooping shoulders of an old man.

"Can you see, Peter?"

"Yes, thanks. Switch on the light if you like."

Bobby got up and moved to the door. The dusk behind Peter's face flung it into sharp white outline.

Another shower! The rain at first in single drops, then more swiftly, fell with gentle, pattering
fingers up and down the window. It was the only sound, except the scraping of Peter's pen.
The pen stopped. Peter raised his head, listening.

Bobby switched on the light and as he did so Peter in a strangled breathless mutter whispered--

"The rain! The rain! It was like that that night. Stephen! Stephen!"

His head fell on to his hands and he burst into a storm of tears.

II

And now Peter was out to be hurt, hurt more horribly than he could have ever believed possible.
It was like walking--as they did in the days of the Ordeal--on red-hot iron, every step an
agony. Always there was something to remind him! He could go nowhere, see nobody, summon no
kind of recollection out of the past without this coming to him. There were a thousand things
that Stephen had done, that he, Peter, had never noticed at the time. He was haunted now with
regrets, he had not made enough of him whilst he was there! Ah! had he only known that the
time was to be so short! How he would have spent those precious, precious moments! It was as
though he had flung away, wilfully, possessions of the utmost price--cast them off as though
it had been his very intention to feel, afterwards, this burning regret. The things in the
nursery were packed away, but there remained the room, the frieze with the dragons and princesses,
the fire-place, the high broad window. Again and again he saw babies in the streets, in the
parks and fancied that Stephen had come back again.

The thing had happened to him so swiftly that, behind reason, there lurked the thought that
perhaps, with equal suddenness, Stephen would be restored. To come back one afternoon and to
find him there! To find him lying there on his back in his cot looking up at the ceiling, to
find him labouring unsteadily on his feet, clinging to the sides of his bed and shouting--to
find him laughing at the jumping waves in the fire--to find him!... No, never to be found again--gone,
hopelessly, cruelly, for no reason, for no one's good or benefit--simply for some one's sport.

But, strangely, more than the actual Stephen did he miss the imaginary future Stephen at school,
hero of a thousand games, winner of a thousand prizes, the Stephen grown up, famous already
at so young an age, loved by men and women, handsome, good.... Oh! the folly of it! No human
being could carry all the glories that Peter had designed for his son--no human being, then
how much less a Westcott. It might be best after all, young Stephen had been spared. Until
every stone of Scaw House was level with the ground no Westcott could be termed safe--perhaps
not then.

Now he realised how huge a place in his heart the boy had filled dimly, because as yet he refused
to bring it to the open light he was conscious that, during these past two years he had been
save for Stephen, a very lonely man. It was odd that Stephen the elder and Stephen the younger
should have been the only two persons in his life to find the real inside of him--they, too,
and perhaps Norah Monogue. But, otherwise, not Bobby, nor Cards, nor Alice Galleon, nor Mr.
Zanti--nor Clare.

Not Clare. He faced the fact with a sudden shudder. Now that Stephen was gone he and Clare
were face to face--face to face as they had never been since that first happy year of their
marriage. That first year of their marriage--and now!

With an instant clenching of his teeth he pulled down the blinds upon that desolating view.

III

With teeth still clenched he set himself to build up his house again. Clare was very quiet
and submissive during those first weeks. Her little figure looked helpless and appealing in
its deep black; she was prettier than she had ever been in her life before. People said, "Poor
Mrs. Westcott, she feels the loss of her baby so dreadfully"--and they didn't think about Peter.
Indeed some people thought him callous. "Mr. Westcott seemed to be so fond of the child. Now
I really believe he's forgotten all about him." Bobby was the only person in the world who
knew how Peter suffered.

Clare was, indeed, after a time, reassured. Peter, after all, seemed not to mind. Did he mind
anything? He was so often glum and silent that really you couldn't tell. Clare herself had
been frightened on that night when the baby had died. She had probably never in all her life
felt a more genuine emotion than she had known when she knelt by Peter's side and went to sleep
in his arms. She was quite ready to feel that emotion again would Peter but allow her. But
no. He showed no emotion himself and expected no one else to show any, for he was ready to
share it but in her heart of hearts she longed to fling away from her this emotional atmosphere.
She had loved the baby--of course she had loved it. But she had always known that something
would happen to it--always. If Peter would insist on having those horrid Cornishmen.... At
heart she connected that dreadful day when those horrible men had played about in the nursery
with baby's death. Of course it was enough to kill any baby.

So, ultimately, it all came back to Peter's fault. Clare found real satisfaction in the thought.
Meanwhile she emphatically stated her desire to be happy again.

She stated it always in Peter's absence, feeling that he would, in no way, understand her.
"It can't help poor dear little Stephen that we should go on being melancholy and doing nothing.
That's only morbid, isn't it, mother?"

Mrs. Rossiter entirely agreed, as indeed she always agreed with anything that Clare suggested.

"The dear thing does look lovely in black, though," she confided to Mrs. Galleon. "Mr. Cardillac
couldn't take his eyes off her yesterday at luncheon."

Mrs. Rossiter and Jerry Cardillac had, during the last year, become the very best of friends.
Peter was glad to see that it was so. Peter couldn't pretend to care very deeply about his
mother-in-law, but he felt that it would do her all the good in the world to see something
of old Cards. It would broaden her understanding, give her perhaps some of that charity towards
the whole world that was one of Cards' most charming features. Cards, in fact, had been so
much in the house lately that he might be considered one of the family. No one could have been
more tender, more sympathetic, more exactly right about young Stephen's death. He had become,
during those weeks almost a necessity. He seemed to have no particular interest of his own
in life. He dressed very perfectly, he went to a number of parties, he had delightful little
gatherings in his own flat, but, with it all, he was something more--a great deal more--than
the mere society idler. There was a hint at possible wildness, an almost sinister suggestion
of possible lawlessness that made him infinitely attractive. He was such good company and yet
one felt that one didn't know nearly the whole of him.

To Peter he was the most wonderful thing in the world, to Clare he was rapidly becoming so--no
wonder then that the Roundabout saw him so often.

IV

It would need a very acute perception indeed to pursue precisely the train of cause and effect
in Mrs. Rossiter's mind after young Stephen's death. Her black garments added, in the most
astonishing fashion, to her placid flatness. If she had gloried before in an armour that was
so negative that it became instantly exceedingly dangerous, her appearance now was terrifying
beyond all words. Her black silk had apparently no creases, no folds--it almost eliminated
terms and boundaries. Mrs. Rossiter could not now be said to come into a room--she was simply
there. One was sitting, gazing it might be at the fire, a looking-glass, a picture or two,
when suddenly there came a black shadow, something that changed the colour of things a little,
something that obscured certain objects, but scarcely anything more definite. The yellow brooch
was definite, cold, stony eyes hung a little above it, over those a high white forehead--otherwise
merely a black shadow putting out the fire.

She was in the Roundabout now all the time. How poor Dr. Rossiter fared it was difficult to
imagine, but he cared for Clare as deeply as his wife did and was quite ready for everything
to be sacrificed to her at this crisis of her history.

Mrs. Rossiter, meanwhile, was entirely convinced that Peter was responsible for his son's death.
Had you suddenly challenged her and demanded her reasoned argument with regard to this matter
she would probably have failed you--she did not like reasoned arguments--but she would also
have been most sincerely indignant had you called her a liar and would have sworn to her convictions
before a court of law.

"Those Cornishmen" had frightened the poor little thing into fits and it was only to be expected.
Moreover it followed from this that a man who murdered his only child would most assuredly
take to beating his wife before very long. After that, anything might happen. Peter was on
a swift road to being a "Perfect Devil."

Indeed, allow Mrs. Rossiter two consecutive hours of peace and quiet, she, sitting like the
personification of the English climate, alone before her fire, and she could make any one into
anything--once made so they remained.

It mattered nothing to her that poor Peter was, during these weeks, the most subdued and gently
courteous of husbands--that was as it might be (a favourite phrase of hers). She knew him ...
and, so knowing, waited for the inevitable end.

But the more certain she was of his villainous possibilities the more placid she became. She
spread her placidity over everything. It lay, like an invisible glue, upon everything in the
Roundabout--you could feel it on the door-handles, as you feel the jammy reminiscences of incautious
servant-maids. Peter felt it but did not know what it was that he had to deal with.

He had determined, when the sharpest shock of Stephen's death had passed, and he was able to
think of other things, that the supremely important thing for him now to do was to get back
to his old relations with Clare. There was, he grimly reflected, "Mortimer Stant" to be finished
within a month or two and he knew, perfectly well, with the assurance of past experience that
whilst Clare held the stage, Mortimer had the poorest of chances--nevertheless Clare was, at
this moment, the thing to struggle for.

He must get her back--he must get her back.

Behind his brain, all this time, was the horror of being left alone in the world and of what
he might do--then.

To get Clare back he must have the assistance of two people--Mrs. Rossiter and Cards.

It was at this point that he perceived Mrs. Rossiter's placidity.

He could not get at her at all--he could not get near her. He tried in every way, during these
weeks, to please her. She apparently noticed nothing. He could force no direct opinion about
anything from her and yet he was conscious of opposition. He was conscious of opposition, increasingly,
every day.

"I believe she wants Clare to hate me," he suddenly revealed to himself, and, with that, all
hope of her as an ally vanished.

Then he hated her--he hated her more bitterly every day.

He wanted to tell her not to call him "Peter dear"--she loved to put him in positions that
showed him in the worst light to Clare.

At luncheon for instance: "Peter dear, it would be a nice thing for you and Clare to go to
that Private View at the Carfax this afternoon. You've nothing to do, Clare, have you?"

Peter knew that Mrs. Rossiter had already ascertained that he was engaged. He knew also that
Clare had had no thought of Peter's company before but that now she would very speedily feel
herself injured.

"I'm afraid--" Peter would begin.

"Peter's too engaged to take you, Clare dear."

"I dare say Jerry will come--" this from Clare.

"Ah! yes, Mr. Cardillac is always ready to take any trouble, Peter."

"If you'd let me know earlier, Clare, that you wanted me."

Mrs. Rossiter. "Oh! don't put yourself out, Peter. It would never do to break an engagement.
Only it seems such a long time since you and Clare--"

Peter. "We'll go to-morrow afternoon, Clare."

Clare. "You're so gloomy when you do come, Peter. It's like going out with a ghost."

Mrs. Rossiter. "Ah! Peter has his work, dear--so much hangs on the next book, doesn't it, Peter?
Naturally the last one didn't quite--"

Peter. "Look here, Clare, I'll chuck this engagement."

Clare. "No, thank you, Peter--Jerry and I will be all right. You can join us if you like--"

The fact was that Peter wasn't tactful. He showed Mrs. Rossiter much too plainly that he disliked
her intensely. He had no idea that he showed it her. He thought, indeed, that he was very skilful
in his disguise of his feelings but Mrs. Rossiter knew and soon Clare knew also.

Peter had no conception of subtlety in the matter. It was clear to him that he had once been
devoted to Clare and she to him, it was clear also that that relationship had recently been
dimmed. Now that Stephen was gone that early intimacy must be restored and the fact that he
was willing on his side to do anything to bring it back seemed to him reason enough for its
restoration. That the whole matter was composed of the most delicate and intricate threads
never occurred to him for an instant. Clare had loved him once. Clare would love him again--and
the sooner it happened the better for him.

Meanwhile Mrs. Rossiter being enemy rather than ally there remained Cards.

But Cards was strange. Peter could never claim to have been intimate with him--their relationship
had been founded on an inequality, on a recognition from Peter of Cards' superiority. Cards
had always laughed at Peter, always patronised him. But now, although Cards had been in the
place so much of late, the distance seemed farther than ever before.

Cards was as kind as he could be--always in good spirits, always ready to do anything, but
Peter noticed that it was only when Clare was present that Cards changed from jest to earnest.
"He thinks Clare worth talking to seriously.... I suppose it's because he was at Dawson's ...
but after all I'm not an imbecile."

This attitude of Cards was in fact as vague and nebulous as all the other things that seemed
now to stand between Peter and Clare.

Peter tried to talk to Cards--he was always prevented--held off with a laughing hand.

"What's the matter with me?" thought Peter. "What have I done? It's like being out in a fog."

At last one evening, after dinner, when Clare and Mrs. Rossiter had gone upstairs he demanded
an answer.

"Look here, Cards, what have I done? You profess to be a friend of mine. Tell me what crime
I've committed?"

Cards' eyes had been laughing. Suddenly he was serious. His dark, clean-cut face was stern,
almost accusing.

"Profess, Peter? I hope you don't doubt it?"

"No, of course not. You know you're the best friend I've got. Tell me--what have I done?"

"Done?"

"Yes--you and Clare and her mother--all of you keep me at arms' length--why?"

"Do you really want a straight talking?"

"Of course."

"Well, I can only speak for myself--but--to tell the truth, old boy--I think you've been rather
hard on poor little Clare."

For the first time since his marriage Peter resented Cards' words. "Poor little Clare"--wasn't
that a little too intimate?

"What do you mean?" he asked, his voice a little harder.

"Well--I don't think you understand her, Peter."

"Explain."

"She's a happy, merry person if ever there was one in this world. She wants all the happiness
you can give her--"

"Well?"

"Well, you don't seem to see that. Of course young Stephen's death--"

"Let's leave that--" Peter's voice was harder again.

"Oh, all right--just as you please. But most men would have seen what a shock it must be to
a girl, so young, who knew so little about the cruelty of life. You didn't--you don't mind,
Peter, do you?--you didn't seem to think of that. Never tried to cheer her up, take her about,
take her out of herself. You just wrapped yourself up--"

"You don't understand," muttered Peter, his eyes lowered. "If I'd thought that she'd really
minded Stephen's death--"

"Oh! come Peter--that's grossly unfair. Why, she felt it all most horribly. That shows how
little you've understood her, how little you've appreciated her. You've always been a gloomy,
morbid devil and--"

"All right, Cards--that'll do."

Cards stood back from the table, his mouth smiling, his eyes hard and cold.

"Oh! no, it won't. You asked for it and now you're going to get it. You've not only been gloomy
and morbid all your life, you've been selfish as well--always thinking of yourself and the
books you were going to write, and then when they did come they weren't such great shakes.
You oughtn't to have married at all--you've never considered Clare at all--your treatment of her--"

Peter stood up, his face white, so that his eyes and the lines of his mouth showed black in
the shadow.

"Clear out--I've heard enough."

"Oh! that's just like you--ask me for my opinion and then lose your temper over it. Really,
Peter, you're like a boy of ten--you don't deserve to be treated as a grown-up person."

Peter's voice shook. "Clear out--clear out or I'll do for you--get out of my house--"

"Certainly."

Cards opened the door and was gone. Peter heard him hesitate for a moment in the hall, get
his hat and coat and then close the hall-door after him.

The house was suddenly silent. Peter stood, his hands clenched. Then he went out into the hall.

He heard Mrs. Rossiter's voice from above--"Aren't you two men ever coming up?"

"Jerry's gone."

"Gone?"

"Yes--we've had a row."

Mrs. Rossiter made no reply. He heard the drawing-room door close. Then he, too, took his coat
and hat and went out.

V

The night was cool and sweet with a great silver haze of stars above the sharply outlined roofs
and chimneys. The golden mist from the streets met the night air and mingled with it.

Peter walked furiously, without thinking of direction. Some clock struck half-past nine. His
temper faded swiftly, leaving him cold, miserable, regretful. There went his damnable temper
again, surging up suddenly so hot and fierce that it had control of him almost before he knew
that it was there. How like him, too! Now when things were bad enough, when he must bend all
his energies to bringing peace back into the house again, he must needs go and quarrel with
the best friend he had in the world. He had never quarrelled with Cards before, never had there
been the slightest word between them, and now he had insulted him so that, probably, he would
never come into their house again.

And behind his immediate repentance at the quarrel there also bit into his heart the knowledge
that there was truth in the accusation that Cardillac had flung at him. He had been morbid,
he had been selfish. Absorbed by his own grief at Stephen's loss he had given no thought to
any one else. He had expected Clare to be like himself, had made no allowance for differences
of temperament, had.... Poor Peter had never before known an hour of such miserable self-condemnation.
Had he known where to find him he would have gone that very instant to beg Cards' pardon.

Now, in comparison with his own black deeds, Mrs. Rossiter seemed an angel. He should show
her in the future that he could mend his ways. Clare should make no further complaint of him.
He found himself in Leicester Square and still wrapt in his own miserable thoughts went into
the Empire. He walked up and down the Promenade wondering that so many people could take the
world so lightly. Very far away a gentleman in evening dress was singing a song--his mouth
could be seen to open and shut, sometimes his arms moved--no sound could be heard.

The Promenade was packed. Up and down ladies in enormous hats walked languidly. They all wore
clothes that were gorgeous and a little soiled. They walked for the most part in couples and
appeared to be absorbed in conversation, but every now and again they smiled mechanically,
recognised a friend or saw somebody who was likely very shortly to become one.

There was a great deal of noise. There were numbers of men--old gentlemen who were there because
they had always been there, young gentlemen who were there because they had never been there
before and a few gentlemen who had come to see the Ballet.

The lights blazed, the heat and noise steadily accumulated, corks were popped in the bar behind,
promises were broken in the Promenade in front, and soon after eleven, when everything had
become so uncomfortable that the very lights in the building protested, the doors were opened
and the whole Bubble and Squeak was flung out into the cool and starlit improprieties of Leicester
Square.

Peter could not have told you if he had been asked, that he had been there, felt a devouring
thirst and entered a building close at hand where there were rows of little round tables and
numbers of little round waiters.

Peter sat down at the first table that occurred to him and it was not until he looked round
about him that he discovered that a lady in a huge black hat was sitting smiling opposite him.
Her cheeks were rouged, her gloves were soiled and her hair looked as though it might fall
into a thousand pieces at the slightest provocation, but her eyes were pathetic and tired.
They didn't belong to her face.

"Hullo, dear, let's have a drink. Haven't had a drink to-night."

He asked her what she would like and she told him. She studied him carefully for quite a long time.

"Down on your luck, old chum?" she said at last."

"Yes, I am," Peter said, "a bit depressed."

"I know. I'm often that way myself. We all catch it. Come home and have a bit of supper. That'll
cheer you up."

"No, thanks," said Peter politely. "I must get back to my own place in a minute."

"Well," said the lady. "Please yourself, and I'll have another drink if you don't very much mind."

It was whilst he was ordering another drink that he came out of his own thoughts and considered
her.

"That's right," she said smiling, "have a good look. My name's Rose Bennett. Here's my card.
Perhaps you'd like to come and have tea with me one day."

She gave him a very dirty card on which was written "Miss Rose Bennett, 4 Annton Street, Portland
Place."

"You're Cornish," he suddenly said, looking at her.

She moved her soiled gloves up and down the little table--"Well, what if I am?" she said defiantly,
not looking at him.

"I knew it," said Peter triumphantly, "the way you rolled your r's--"

"Well, chuck it, dear," said Miss Bennett, "and let's talk sense. What's Cornwall got to do
with us anyhow?"

"I'm Cornish too," said Peter, "it's got a good deal to do with us. You needn't tell me of
course--but what part do you come from?"

Still sullenly she said: "Almost forgotten the name of it, so long ago. You wouldn't know it
anyway, it's such a little place. They called it Portergwarra--"

"I know," cried Peter, "near the Land's End. Of course I know it. There are holes in the rocks
that they lift the boats through. There's a post-box on the wall. I've walked there many a time--"

"Well, stow it, old man," Miss Bennett answered decisively. "I'm not thinking of that place
any more and I don't suppose they've thought of me since. Why, it's years--"

She broke off and began hurriedly to drink. Peter's eyes sought her eyes--his eyes were miserable
and so were hers--but her mouth was hard and laughing.

"It's funny talking of Cornwall," she said at last. "No one's spoken of the place since I came
up here. But it's all right, I tell you--quite all right. You take it from me, chucky. I enjoy
my life--have a jolly time. There's disadvantages in every profession, and when you've got
a bit of a cold as I have now why--"

She stopped. Her eyes sought Peter's. He saw that she was nearly crying.

"Talking of Cornwall and all that," she muttered, "silly rot! I'm tired--I'm going home."

He paid for the drinks and got a hansom.

At that moment as he stood looking over the horse into the dimly-lit obscurities of the Square
he thought with a sudden beating of the heart that he recognised Cardillac looking at him from
the doorway of a neighbouring restaurant. Then the figure was gone. He had got Cardillac on
the brain! Nevertheless the suggestion made him suddenly conscious of poor Miss Bennett's enormous
hat, her rouge, her soiled finery that allowed no question as to her position in the world.

Rather hurriedly he asked her to get into the cab.

"Come that far--" she said.

He got in with her and she took off one glove and he held her hand and they didn't speak all
the way.

When the hansom stopped at last he got down, helped her out and for a moment longer held her hand.

"We're both pretty unhappy," he said. "Things have been going wrong with me too. But think
of Cornwall sometimes and remember there's some one else thinking of it."

"You're a funny kid," she said, looking at him, "sentimental, I don't think!"

But it was her eyes--tired and regretful that said goodbye.

She let herself in and the door closed behind her.

He turned and walked the streets; it was three o'clock before he reached his home.

CHAPTER XIII

"MORTIMER STANT"

I

Next morning Peter went round to Cardillac's flat and made his apologies. Cardillac accepted
them at once with the frankest expressions of friendship.

"My dear old Peter, of course," he said, taking both Peter's hands in his, "I was horribly
blunt and unpleasant about the whole thing. I didn't mean half what I said, but the fact is
that you got angry and then I suppose I got angry--and then we both said more than we meant."

"No," said Peter slowly, "for you were quite right. I have been selfish and morbid. I see it
all quite clearly. I'm going to be very different now, Cards, old man."

Cards' flat was splendid--everything in it from its grey Ascot trouserings kind of wall paper
to its beautiful old chairs and its beautiful old china was of the very best--and Cards himself,
in a dark blue suit with a black tie and a while pearl and white spats on his shining gleaming
shoes, just ready to go out and startle Piccadilly was of the very best. He had never, Peter
thought, looked so handsome.

At the door Cards put a hand on Peter's shoulder.

"Get in late this morning, Peter?"

"Why?" said Peter, turning round.

"Oh, nothing," Cards regarded him, smiling. "I'll see you to-night at the Lesters. Until then,
old man--"

Neither Mrs. Rossiter nor Clare made any allusion to the quarrel but it had nevertheless, Peter
felt, made reconciliation all the more difficult. Mrs. Rossiter now seemed to imply in her
additional kindnesses to Cardillac that she felt for him deeply and was sorry that he, too,
should have been made to suffer under Peter's bear-like nature.

There was even an implied atmosphere of alliance in the attitude of the three to Peter, an
alliance fostered and cemented by Mrs. Rossiter and spread by her, up and down, in and out
about the house.

It was obvious indeed now that Mrs. Rossiter was, never again, under any terms, to be won over.
She had decided in her own slow mind that Peter was an objectionable person, that he neglected
his wife, quarrelled with his best friends and refused to fulfil the career that he had promised
to fulfil. She saw herself now in the role of protectress of her daughter, and that role she
would play to the very end. Clare must, at all costs, be happy and, in spite of her odious
husband, happy she should be.

Peter discerned Mrs. Rossiter's state of mind on the whole clearly enough, but with regard
to Clare he was entirely in the dark. He devoted his days now to her service. He studied her
every want, was ready to abandon his work at any moment to be with her, and was careful also
to avoid too great a pestering of her with attentions.

"I know women hate that," he said to himself, "if you go down on your knees to them and hang
around them they simply can't stand it. I won't show her that I care."

And he cared, poor fellow, as he had never cared for her before during their married life.
The love that he had had for Stephen he would now give to Stephen's mother would she but let him.

But it was a difficult business. When Mrs. Rossiter was present he could do nothing right.
If he were silent she would talk to Clare about people being morose; and what a pity it was
that some people didn't think of other people a little instead of being miserable about things
for which they had nobody to thank but themselves, and if he tried to be light-hearted and
amusing Mrs. Rossiter bore with his humour in so patient and self-denying a spirit that his
efforts failed lamentably and only made the situation worse than it had been before.

Clare seemed to be now entirely in her mother's hands; she put her mother's large flat body
between herself and Peter and, through that, they were compelled to talk.

Peter also knew now that Clare was exceedingly uncomfortable in his presence--it was almost
as though she had something to conceal. On several occasions he had noticed that his sudden
entrance into a room had confused her; once he had caught her hurriedly pushing a letter out
of sight. She was now strangely timid when he was there; sometimes with a sudden furious beating
of the heart he fancied that she was coming back to him again because she would make little
half movements towards him and then draw back. Once he found her crying.

The impulse to beg her to confide in him was almost stronger than he could resist, and yet
he was terrified lest by some sudden move he should frighten her and drive her back and so
lose the little ground that he had gained. The strangest thing of all was that Mrs. Rossiter
herself did not know what Clare's trouble was. She, of course, put it all down to Peter, but
she could accuse him of nothing specific. Clare had not confided in her.

Did Cards know? Peter suddenly asked himself with a strange pang of jealousy. That he should
be jealous of Cards, the most splendid, most honourable fellow in the world! That, of course,
was absurd. And yet they were together so often, and it was with Jerry Cardillac alone that
Clare seemed now at ease.

But Peter put all such thoughts at once away from him. Had it been any other man but Cards
he might have wondered... but he would trust Cards alone with his wife in the wilderness and
know that no ill could come of it. With--other women Cards might have few scruples--Peter had
heard such stories--but with Peter's wife, no.

Peter wondered whether perhaps Clare did not miss young Stephen more than they knew! Oh, if
that were the reason how he could take her into his arms and comfort her and love her! Poor
little Clare... the time would come when she would show him that she wanted him.

Meanwhile the months passed, the proofs of "Mortimer Stant" had been corrected and the book
was about to appear. To Peter now everything seemed to hang upon this event. It became with
him, during the weeks before its appearance, a monomania. If this book were a success why then
dare and Mrs. Rossiter and all of them would come round to him. It was the third book which
was always so decisive, and there was ground to recover after the comparative failure of the
second novel. As he corrected the proofs he persuaded himself that "Mortimer Stant" wasn't,
after all, so bad. It had been ambitious of him, of course, to write about the emotions and
experiences of a man of forty and there was perhaps rather an overloaded and crude attempt
at atmosphere, but there was life in the book. It had, he thought, more swing in the telling
of it than the other two.

It is possible, when one is correcting proofs to persuade oneself of anything. The book appeared
and was, from the first moment, loaded with mishap. On the day of publication there was that
terrible fire at the Casino theatre--people talked of nothing else for a fortnight. Moreover
by an unlucky chance young Rondel's novel, "The Precipice," was published on the very same
day, and as the precipice was a novel one and there were no less than three young ladies prepared
to fall over it at the same moment, it of course commanded instant attention. It was incidentally
written with an admirable sense of style and a keen sense of character.

But Peter was now in a fever that saw an enemy round every corner. The English News Supplement
only gave him a line:--"'Mortimer Stant.' A new novel by the author of 'Reuben Hallard,' depicting
agreeably enough the amorous adventures of a stockbroker of middle-age." To this had all his
fine dreams, his moments of exultation, his fevered inspiration come! He searched the London
booksellers but could find no traces of "Mortimer Stant" at any of them. His publishers told
him that it was only the libraries that bought any fiction, with the exception of volumes by
certain popular authors--and yet he saw at these booksellers novels by numbers of people who
could not lay claim to the success that "Reuben Hallard" had secured for its writer.

The reviews came in slowly, and, excepting for the smaller provincial papers, treated him with
an indifference that was worse than neglect. "This interesting novel by Mr. Westcott"--"A pleasant
tale of country life by the author of 'Reuben Hallard.' Will please those who like a quiet
agreeable book without too much incident."

One London weekly review--a paper of considerable importance--took him severely to task, pointed
out a number of incoherences of fact, commented on carelessness of style and finally advised
Mr. Westcott, "if he is ever to write a book of real importance to work with greater care and
to be less easily contented with a superficial facility."

But worse than these were the opinions of his friends. Henry Galleon was indeed gone, but there
were a few--Mrs. Launce, Alfred Lester, William Trent, Alfred Hext--who had taken a real and
encouraging interest in him from the beginning. They took him seriously enough to tell him
the truth, and tell him the truth they did. Dear Mrs. Launce, who couldn't bear to hurt anybody
and saw perhaps that he was taking the book a great deal more hardly than he had taken the
others, veiled it as well as she could:--"I do think it's got splendid things in it, Peter
dear--splendid things. That bit about the swimming and the character of Mrs. Mumps. But it
doesn't hang together. There's a great deal of repetition. It's as though you'd written it
with your mind on something else all the time."

And so he had--oh! so he had! What cruel irony that because his mind was set to winning Clare
back to him the chief means for gaining her should be ruined by his very care for her.

What to do when all the things of life--the bustle and hurry, the marriages and births and
deaths--came in between him and his work so that he could scarcely see it, so many things obscured
the way. Poor Mortimer! Lost indeed behind a shifting, whirring cloud of real life--never to
emerge, poor man, into anything better than a middle-aged clothes' prop.

For six weeks the book lingered in the advertisements. A second edition, composed for the most
part of an edition for America, was announced, there were a belated review or two ... and then
the end. The end of two years' hopes, ambitions, struggles, sweat and tears--and the end, too,
of how much else?

From the beginning, so far back as he could remember, he had believed that he would one day
write great books; had believed it from no conceit in him but simply because he clung so tenaciously
to ambition that it had become, again and again, almost realised in the intensity of his dreams
of it. He had known that this achievement of his would take a long time, that he must meet
with many rebuffs, that he must starve and despair and be born again, but, never at any moment,
until now, had he, in his heart of hearts, doubted that that great book was in front of him.

He had seen his work, in his dreams, derided, flouted, misunderstood. That was the way with
most good work, but what he had never seen was its acceptance amongst the ranks of the "Pretty
Good," its place given it beside that rising and falling tide of fiction that covered every
year the greedy rocks of the circulating libraries and ebbed out again leaving no trace behind it.

Now, after the failure of "Mortimer Stant" for the first time, this awful question--"What if,
after all, you should be an Ordinary Creature? What if you are no better than that army who
fights happily, contentedly, with mediocrity for its daily bread and butter? That army, upon
whose serried ranks you have perhaps, unconsciously, but nevertheless with pity, looked down?...
What if you are never to write a word that will be remembered, never even to cause a decent
attention, amongst your own generation?"

What if after all this stir and fluster, this pain and agony and striving, there should be
nothing exceptional about Peter? What rock to stand on then?

He had never, perhaps, analysed his feelings about it all. He had certainly never thought himself
an exceptional person ... but always in his heart there had been that belief that, one day,
he would write an exceptional book.

He was very young, not yet thirty, but he had had his chance. It seemed to him, in these weeks
following the death of "Mortimer Stant," that his career was already over. There was also the
question of ways and means. Just enough to live on with the reviewing and a column for an American
paper and Clare's income, but if the books were all of them to fail as this one had failed--why
then it was a dreary future for them both.

In fact there were now, at his feet, pits of so dismal and impenetrable a blackness that he
refused to look down, but clung rather to his determination to make all things right with Clare
again, and then things would come round.

If that failed him--why then, old black-faced father in Scaw House with your drunken cook and
your company of ghosts, you shall have your merry way!

II

Henry Galleon was dead. Mrs. Launce was, unfortunately, during the whole of this period of
Peter's career, away in the country, being burdened with work, children and ill-health. He
turned then once again to Bobby.

He had seen very little of Bobby and Alice Galleon lately; he was as fond of Bobby as he had
ever been, but Bobby had always been a background, some one who was there, one liked to think,
if one wanted him--but if there was any one more exciting, then Bobby vanished. Lately--for
quite a long time now--there had been Cardillac--and somehow Cards and Bobby did not get on
together and it was impossible to have them both at the same time. But now Peter turned to
Bobby with the eagerness of a return to some comfortable old arm-chair after the brilliant
new furniture of a friend's palace. Bobby was there waiting for him. It is not to be denied
that the occasional nature of Peter's appearances had hurt them both--wounded Bobby and made
Alice angry.

"He's given us up, Bobby, now that he's found so many new friends. I shouldn't have expected
him to do that. I'm disappointed."

But Bobby nodded his head. "The boy's all right," he said, "he's just trying to forget young
Stephen and he forgets things better in Cardillac's company than he does in mine--I'm not lively
enough for that kind of thing. He'll come back--"

But, at the same time, Bobby was anxious. Things were wrong up there at The Roundabout, very
wrong. He knew Clare and Cards and Peter and Mrs. Rossiter, in all probability better than
any one alive knew them--and he was no fool.

Then Peter came back to him and was received as though he had never left him; and Alice, who
had intended to tell Mr. Peter what she thought of his disloyalty, had no word to say when
she saw his white drawn face and his tired eyes.

"There's something awfully wrong up there," said Alice to Bobby that night. "Bobby, look after
him."

But Bobby who had heard by that time what Peter had to say shut his mouth tight. Then at last:

"Our friend Cardillac has a good deal to answer for," and left Alice to make what she could
out of it.

Meanwhile up in Bobby's dusty old room, called by courtesy "The Study" but having little evidence
of literature about it save an edition of Whyte-Melville and a miscellaneous collection of
Yellow-backs, Peter had poured out his soul:

"Bobby, I feel as though I'd just been set up with my back against the wall for every one to
make shies at. Everything's going wrong--everything. The ground's crumbling from under my feet.
First it's young Stephen, then it's Clare, then my book fails (don't let's humbug--you know
it's an utter failure) then I quarrel with Cards, then that damned woman--" he stopped at the
thought of Mrs. Rossiter and drove his hands together. Then he went on more quietly. "It's
like fighting in a fog, Bobby. There's the thing I want somewhere, just beside me--I want Clare,
Clare as she used to be when we were first married--but I can't get at her and yet, through
it all, I don't know what it is that stops me.

"I know I hadn't thought of her enough--with the book and Stephen and everything. Cards told
me that pretty straight--but now I've seen all that and I'm ready to do anything--anything
if she'll only love me again."

"Go directly to her and tell her," said Bobby; "have it all out in the open with her,"

"That's just it," Peter answered, "I never seem to get her alone. There's always either her
mother or Cards there. Cards sees her alone much more than I do, but, of course, she likes
his company better than mine just now. I'm such a gloomy beggar--"

"Nonsense," said Bobby roughly. "You believe anything that any one tells you. They tell you
that you're gloomy and depressing and so you think you are. They didn't find you gloomy at
Brockett's did they? And Alice and I have never found you depressing. Don't listen to that
woman. Clare's always been under her influence and it's for you to take her out of it--not
to lie down quietly and say she's too much for you--but there's another thing," he added slowly
and awkwardly, after a moment's pause.

"What's that?" asked Peter.

"Well--Cards," said Bobby at last. "Oh! I know you'll say I hate him. But I don't. I don't
hate him. I've always known him for what he was--in those days at Dawson's when if you flattered
him he was kind, and if you didn't he was contemptuous. At Cambridge it was the same. There
was only one fellow there I ever saw him knock under to--a man called Dune--and he was out
and away exceptional anyhow, at games and work and everything. Now he made Cards into a decent
fellow for the time being, and if he'd had the running of him he might have turned all that
brilliance into something worth having.

"But he vanished and Cards has never owned his master since. Everything was there, ready in
him, to be turned one way or the other, and after he left Cambridge there was his silly mother
and a sillier London waiting to finish him--now he's nothing but Vanity and Fascination--and
soon there'll be nothing but Vanity."

"You're unjust to him, Bobby, you always have been.

"Well, perhaps I am. He's always treated me with such undisguised contempt that it's only human
that I should be a little prejudiced. But that's neither here nor there--what is the point,
Peter, is that he's too much up at your place. Too much for his own good, too much for yours,
and--too much for--Clare's."

"Bobby!"

"Oh yes--I know I'm saying a serious thing--but you asked me for my advice and I give it. I
don't say that Cards means any harm but people will talk and it wouldn't do you any damage
in Clare's eyes either, Peter, if you were to stand up to him a little."

Peter smiled. "Dear old Bobby! If any one else in the world had said such a thing of course
I should have been most awfully angry, but I've always known how unfair you were about Cards.
You never liked him, even in the Dawson days. You just don't suit one another. But I tell you,
Bobby, that I'd trust Cards more than I'd trust any one in the world. Of course Clare likes
to be with him and of course he likes to be with her. They suit one another exactly. Why, he's
splendid! The other day when I'd been a perfect beast--losing my temper like a boy of ten--you
should have heard the way he took it. One day, Bobby, you'll see how splendid he is."

Bobby said no more.

Peter went on again: "No, it's my mother-in-law's done the damage. You're right, the thing
to do is to get Clare alone and have it right out with her. We'll clear the mists away."

Bobby said: "You know Peter, both Alice and I would do anything in the world to make you happy--anything."

Peter gripped his hand.

"I know you would. If I could forget young Stephen," he caught his breath--"Bobby, I see him
everywhere, all the time. I lie awake hours at night thinking about him. I see him in my sleep,
see him sometimes grown-up--splendid, famous.... Sometimes I think he comes back. I can see
him, lying on his back and looking up at the ceiling, and I say to myself, 'Now if you don't
move he'll stay there' ... and then I move and he's gone. And I haven't any one to talk about
him to. I never know whether Clare thinks of him or not. He was so splendid, Bobby, so strong.
And he loved me in the most extraordinary way. We'd have been tremendous pals if he'd lived.

"I could have stood anything if I'd been able to see him growing up, had him to care about....
I'm so lonely, Bobby--and if I don't make Clare come back to me, now that the book's failed,
I--I--I'll go back to Scaw House and just drink myself to the devil there with my old father;
he'll be glad enough."

"You once told me," Bobby said, "about an old man in your place when you were a kid, who said
once, 'It isn't life that matters but the courage you bring to it--' Well, that's what you're
proving now, Peter."

"Yes, but why me? I've had a bad time all my life--always been knocked about and cursed and
kicked. Why should it go on all the time--all the time?"

"Because They think you're worth it, I suppose," said Bobby.

III

And the result of that conversation was that, on that very night Peter made his appeal. They
had had a silent evening (Mrs. Rossiter was staying in the house at this time), and at last
they all had gone up to bed. Peter stayed for a moment in his dressing-room, seeing his white
face in the looking-glass, hearing the beating of his heart and then with a hand that strangely
trembled, knocked on Clare's door.

Her voice sounded frightened, he thought, as she called to him to come in. Indeed, as he entered
she folded a letter that she had been reading, and put it in a drawer in the dressing-table
at which she was sitting.

It was only seldom now that he disturbed her in that room. She had turned on the electric light
over her dressing-table; the rest of the room was in darkness. She seemed to Peter very fragile
and tiny as she sat there in her black evening frock, her breast rising and falling as though
something had suddenly frightened her, her eyes wide and startled. He felt a gross, coarse
brute as he stumbled, coming across the dark floor to her.

"My God," he cried in his heart, "put everything right now--let this make everything right."

His big square body flung huge fantastic shadows upon the wall, but he looked, as he faced
her, like a boy who had come to his master to confess some crime.

Apparently she was reassured now, for she took off her necklace and moved about the things
on her table as though to show him that she was on the point of undressing.

"Well, Peter, what is it?" she said.

"I've come--Clare--just a moment--I want a talk."

"But it's late, I'm tired--won't some other time do?"

"No, I want it now."

"What is it?"

She was looking into the glass as she spoke to him.

He pulled a little chair over to her and sat forward so that his knees nearly touched her thin
black dress. He put out his big hand and caught one of her little ones; he thought for a moment
that she was going to resist--then it lay there cold as ice.

"Clare--darling--look here, everything's been wrong with both of us--for ages. And I've come--I've
come--because I know it's been very largely my fault. And I've come to say that everything
will be different now and I want you to let things--be--as they were before--"

For a moment he fancied that he saw a light leap into her eyes; he felt her hand tremble for
a moment in his. Then the expression was gone.

"How do you mean?" she said, still looking into the glass. "What do you mean, Peter? I haven't
noticed anything different."

"Oh yes, you have. You know that--ever since Stephen died and before that really--you've avoided
me. You'd rather be without me than with me. You've all thought me selfish and glum and so
I suppose I was. But I missed--the kid--a lot." Again Peter felt her hand tremble. He pressed
it. Then he went on, leaning more toward her now and putting an arm out to touch her dress.

"Clare--it's been like a fog all these weeks--we've never had it out, we've never talked about
it, but you've been disappointed in me. You thought I was going to write great books and I
haven't--and then your mother--and I--don't get on. And then I suppose I'm stupid in society--I
can't talk a lot to any one who comes along as all you people can. I've been brought up differently
and--and--I know you don't like to think about that either, and so I'll never bring my old
friends into the house and I'll see that I'm not such a gawk at your parties--"

He paused for a moment; she was looking down now and he couldn't see her eyes. He bent forward
more closely--his arm caught her waist--his hand crushed hers--

She tried desperately to pull herself together to say something--

"No--there's nothing. Well, if there is--Of course I suppose it happens to all married people--"

"What happens?"

"Why, they find one another out a little. Things aren't quite as they thought they'd be. That
must happen always."

"But tell me--tell me the things in me that have disappointed you and then I can alter--"

"Well--it's a little as you say. You have been rather rude to Mother. And then--your quarrel--"

"What! You mean with Cards!"

"With--Jerry--yes. And then," her voice was high and sharp now--her eyes avoided his--"I've
always--been happy, until I married. Things frighten me. You don't understand me, Peter, how
easily I'm frightened--you never seemed to see that. Other people--know."

"I've been selfish--I--"

"Yes," she went on still in that high voice, "and you never consider me in little things. And
you laugh at me as though I were stupid. I don't suppose it's all your fault. You were brought
up--roughly. But you are rough. You hurt me often. I can't bear," her lip was trembling and
she was nearly crying--"I can't bear being unhappy--"

"My God!" cried Peter, "what a beast I am! What a brute I've been!"

"Yes--and you never seemed to think that I minded poor little Stephen's death--the dear little
thing--of course it hurt me dreadfully--and you never thought of me--"

"It's all going to be different now. Love me, Clare--love me and it will all come back. And
then if you'll only love me I'll be able to write the most wonderful books. I'll be famous
all the world over--if you'll only love me, Clare darling--"

He dropt on to his knees before her and looking up at her whispered--"Clare--darling, darling--you're
all that I've got now--everything in the world. And in return I'll try to be everything to
you. I'll spend my life in making you happy. I'll care for only one thing and that is to be
your servant. Clare--Clare--"

She gave a little protesting cry--"Peter, Peter--don't--I--I--can't--" and then in a shuddering
whisper--"Peter--I'm not good enough--I don't love you now--I--can't--"

But he had caught her, was holding her to him now, with both his arms round her, pressing her
against his shirt, hurting her--at last covering her mouth, her eyes, her cheeks with kisses.

He had not heard those words now, in the triumph of having her back again, his as she had been
on the first day of their marriage, did not feel her body unresponsive, her hands cold, nor
did he see the appeal, wild and desperate, in her eyes....

At last he left her, closing, softly her door between them.

CHAPTER XIV

PETER BUYS A PRESENT

I

Peter did not hesitate now. He should win Clare back with his strong right hand and he would
rule The Roundabout with a rod of iron. Ruling The Roundabout meant ruling Mrs. Rossiter and
he was surprised at the ease with which he won his victory over that lady. Had he considered
it more deeply that easy victory might have seemed to him ominous.

At luncheon on the day after his talk with Clare they three sat together--Mrs. Rossiter silent,
Clare silent, Peter silent.

Suddenly Peter said: "Oh by the way, Clare, I telephoned for seats this morning for the new
thing at the Criterion. I got two stalls."

They had not been to the theatre together since Stephen's death.

Clare lifted a white face--"I don't think I--"

"Oh yes," said Peter, smiling across at her--"you'll enjoy it."

Mrs. Rossiter stroking her large bosom with a flat white hand said, "I don't think Clare--"

"Oh yes," said Peter again, "it will do her good."

Mrs. Rossiter smiled. "Get another stall, Peter, and I will come too."

"I'm afraid," said Peter very politely, "that it's too late. The piece is a thumping success.
I was very lucky to get any seats at all."

And then Mrs. Rossiter subsided, absolutely subsided ... very strange.

That was not a very happy evening. Clare scarcely spoke, she answered him with "Yes" and "No,"
she sat in the stalls looking like a little unhappy ghost. She did not in any way repulse him--she
let him take her hand coming home in the cab. She shivered and he asked whether she were cold
and she said, Yes, she thought that she was. That night he came in, took her for a moment in
his hands, kissed her very gently on the lips, and said--

"Clare, you're not angry with me for last night?"

"No" she answered him. Then she added slowly, as though she were repeating a part that she'd
learnt, "Thank you for taking me to the play, Peter. I was rather tired. But thank you for
taking me."

He went to bed thanking God for this change in her. "I'll make her love me just as she used
to, those days on our honeymoon. God bless her."

Yes, Mrs. Rossiter was strangely altered. It all shows what one can do with a woman when one
tries. Her hostile placidity had given place to something almost pathetic. One would have thought,
had one not known that lady's invariable assurance of movement, that she was perplexed, almost
distressed.

Peter was conscious that Clare was now as silent with her mother as she was with him. He perceived
that Mrs. Rossiter was disturbed at Clare's reticence. He fancied that he sometimes interrupted
little conversations between the mother and the daughter the intention of which was, on Mrs.
Rossiter's part at any rate, that "Clare should tell her something." There was no doubt at
all, that Mrs. Rossiter was anxious. Even--although this seemed impossible--she appeared to
be ready to accept Peter as a friend and ally now--now after these many weeks of hostility.
Surely women are strange creatures. In any case, one may observe the yellow brooch agitated
now and ill at ease.

Very soon, too, Cards came to make his farewells--he was going to Paris for the whole of May.

"What! Won't you be back for the beginning of the Season?" cried Peter astonished.

"No," Cards answered, laughing. "For once the Season can commence without me."

He was especially affectionate but seemed anxious to be gone. His dark eyes avoided Peter's
gaze. He didn't look well--a little anxious: and Cards was generally the soul of light-hearted
carelessness.

What a splendid fellow he was! Peter looked him up and down taking that same delight that he
had always taken in his distinction, his good looks, his ease. "He ought to have been born
king of somewhere," Peter used to think, "he ought really--no wonder people spoil him."

"There's another thing," Peter said, "you're forgetting Clare's birthday next week. She'll
be dreadfully disappointed at your not being here for it."

"I'll have to remember it from Paris," Cards said.

"Well--it's an awful pity that you're going for a whole month. I don't know what we shall do
without you. And you cheer Clare up--she's rather depressed just now. Thinks of the kid a bit,
I expect."

"Well, I'll write," said Cards, and was gone.

II

Peter received at this time a letter that showed him that he had, at any rate, one friend,
in the world who believed in him. It was from James Maradick and it was strangely encouraging--now
at this period of yawning pits from whose blackness he so resolutely turned away.

It asked him to go with Maradick as his guest to some Club dinner. Then it went on.... "You
know, Westcott, we don't meet as often as we should. Like ships in the night, we signal every
now and again and then pass. But I am quite sure that we have plenty to say to one another.
Once or twice--you remember that party when I gassed about Cornwall?--we have nearly said it,
but something has always prevented. I remember that you divided the world once in a fit of
youthful confidence, into Explorers and Stay-at-homes. Well, those words will do as well as
any others to describe the great dividing line. At any rate, you're an Explorer and you're
trying to get on terms with the Stay-at-homes, and I'm a Stay-at-home and I'm trying to get
on terms with the Explorers and that's why we're both so uncomfortable. The only happy people,
take my word for it, are those who know the kind of thing they are--Explorers or Stay-at-homes,
and just stick at that and shut their eyes tight to the other kind of people--il n'existe pas,
that other world. Those are the happy people, and, after all most people are like that. But
we, you and I, are uncomfortably conscious of the other Party--want to know them, in fact,
want them to receive us.

"Well, I'm getting on and it's late days for me, but you've got all your life before you and
will do great things, take my word for it. Only don't be discouraged because the Stay-at-homes
don't come to you all at once. Give 'em time--they'll come...."

This seemed to Peter, at this moment of a whole welter of doubt and confusion and misunderstanding
of people's motives and positions, to explain a great deal. Was that the reason why he'd been
so happy in old Zachary Tan's shop years ago? Why he'd been happy through all that existence
at the bookshop, those absurd unreal conspirators--happy, yes, even when starving with Stephen
in Bucket Lane.

He was then in his right company--explorers one and all. Whereas here?--Now? Had he ever been
happy at The Roundabout except during the first year, and afterwards when Stephen came? And
was not that, too, the explanation of young Stephen's happiness upon the arrival of Mr. Zanti
and Brant? Did he not recognise them for what they were, explorers? He being a young explorer
himself.

On the other side Mrs. Rossiter, Clare, Cards, old Bobby who in spite of his affection never
understood half the things that Peter did or said, the Galleons, old Mrs. Galleon and Percival
and his sister?... Had Henry Galleon known that dividing-line and suffered under it all his
life, and borne it and perhaps conquered it?

And Peter suddenly, standing at his window watching London caught by the evening light, saw
for an instant his work in front of him again. London with her towers, her roofs and chimneys--smoke
and mist and haze weaving a web--and then beneath it, humming, buzzing, turning, all the lives,
all the comedies, all the tragedies--Kings and princes, guttersnipes and duchesses, politicians
and newsboys, criminals and saints--

Waiting, that golden top, for some hand to set it humming.

In that moment Peter Westcott, aged twenty-nine, with a book just behind him that had been
counted on every side the most dismal of failures, saw himself the English Balzac, saw London
open like a book at his feet, saw heaven and all its glories... himself the one and only begetter
of a thousand masterpieces!

But the sun set--the towers and roofs and chimneys were coldly grey, a ragged wind rose through
the branches of the orchard, dark clouds hid the risen moon, newsboys were crying a murder
in Whitechapel.

"I hate this house," Peter said, turning away from the window, into a room crowded now with dusk.

III

It was the first of May, and the day before Clare's birthday. It was one of the most beautiful
days of the year, with a hint of summer in its light and shadow, a shimmer of golden sun shaking
through the trees in the orchard, flung from there on to the windows of The Roundabout, to
dance in twisting lines along the floors and across the walls.

All doors and windows seemed to be open; the scent of flowers--a prophecy of pinks and roses
where as yet there were none--flooded the little Chelsea streets.

The Velasquez on the walls of The Roundabout danced in her stiff skirts, looking down upon
a room bathed in green and gold shadow.

It was three o'clock in the afternoon and Peter was going out to buy Clare a present. He had
seen a ruby pendant many months ago in a window in Bond Street. He had thought of it for Clare
but he had known that, with young Stephen's education and the rest of the kid's expenses, he
could not dare to afford it. Now... things were different.

It should sign and seal this new order....

He came downstairs. He looked into the little sitting-room. Clare was standing there by the
window looking at the gay trees in the orchard. On the opposite wall the Velasquez danced....

She had not heard him come in and she was standing by the window with her hands clasped tightly
behind her, her body strung up, so it seemed, by some height of determination. She wore a black
dress with a little white round her neck and at the sleeves. Her hair was rolled into a pile
on the top of her head and the sunlight from the orchard was shining upon it.

When Peter called her name she turned round with a startled cry and put her hand to her throat.
Then she moved back against the window as though she were afraid that he was going to touch her.

He noticed her movement and the words that he had intended to say were checked on his lips.
He stammered, instead, something about going out. She nodded her head; she had pulled herself
together and walked towards him from the window.

"Won't you come, too? It is such a lovely day," he asked her.

"I've got a headache."

"It'll do your headache good."

But she shook her head--"No, I'm going upstairs to lie down."

She moved past him to the door. Then with her hand on it she turned back to him:--

"Peter, I--" she said.

She seemed to appeal to him with her eyes beseeching, trying to say something, but the rest
of her face was dumb.

The appeal, the things that she would have said suddenly died, leaving her face utterly without
expression.

"Bobby and mother are coming to dinner to-night, aren't they?"

"Yes--"

She passed through the door across the sunlit hall, up the dark stairs. She walked with that
hesitating halting step that he knew so well: her small, white hand lay, for a moment on the
banisters--then she had disappeared.

IV

Coming through the hall Peter noticed that there was a letter in the box. He took it out and
found, with delight, that it was from Stephen Brant. He had had no word from him since the
day when he and Mr. Zanti had paid their fateful visit.

The letter said:--

Dear Mr. Peter,

This is a hurried line to tell you that He is dead at last, died in drink cursing and swearing
and now her mother and she, poor dear, are going to America and I'm going to look after her
hoping that we'll be marrying in a few months' time and so realise my heart's wish.

Dear Peter I sail on Thursday from Southampton and would be coming to see you but would not
like to inconvenience you as you now are, but my heart is ever the same to you, Dear Boy, and
the day will come when we can talk over old times once again.

Your affectionate friend, sir,

Now about to be made the happiest man in all the world,

Stephen.

N.B. I hope the little kid is strong and happy.

N.B. Zanti goes with us to America having heard of gold in California and is to be my best
man when the day comes.

So Stephen's long wait was ended at last. Peter's eyes were dimmed as he put the letter away
in his pocket. What a selfish beast, to be sure, must this same Peter Westcott, be, for here
he was wishing--yes, almost wishing--that Stephen's happiness had not come to him. Always at
the back of everything there had been the thought of Stephen Brant. Let all the pits in the
world gape and yawn, there was one person in the world to whom Peter was precious. Now--in
America--with a wife... some of the sunlight had gone out of the air and Peter's heart was
suddenly cold with that old dread.

Another friend taken from him! Another link gone! Then he pulled himself together, tried to
rejoice with Stephen at his happiness, failed dismally, walked down Piccadilly defiantly, with
swinging shoulders and a frowning face, like a sailor in a hostile country, and went into the
Bond Street jeweller's.

He had been there on several former occasions and a large stout man who looked as though he
must have been Lord Mayor several years running came forward and gave Peter an audience. Precious
stones were of no account in such a place as this, and the ruby pendant looked quite small
and humble when it was brought to Peter--nevertheless it was beautiful and would suit Clare
exactly. It seemed to appeal personally to Peter, as though it knew that he wanted it for a
very especial occasion. This wasn't one of those persons who would come in and buy you as though
you were dirt. It meant something to Peter. It meant something indeed--it meant exactly sixty
pounds--

"Isn't that rather a lot?" said Peter.

"It's as fine a ruby--" said the dignitary, looking over Peter's head out of the window, as
though he were tired of the affair and wanted to see whether his car were there.

"I'll take it," said Peter desperately.

Sixty Pounds! Did one ever hear of such a thing? Sixty pounds ... Never mind, it marked an
occasion. The ruby smiled at Peter as it was slipped into its case; it was glad that it was
going to somebody who hadn't very many things.

He had several other matters to settle and it was nearly five o'clock when he turned out of
Knightsbridge down Sloane Street. The sun was slipping behind the Hyde Park Hotel so that already
the shadows were lying along the lower parts of the houses although the roofs were bright with
sunshine.

It was the hour when all the dogs were taken for the last exercise of the day. Every kind,
of dog was there, but especially the fat and pampered variety--Poms, King Charles, Pekinese,
Dachshunds--a few bigger dogs, and even one mournful-eyed Dane who walked with melancholy superiority,
as a king amongst his vassals.

The street stirred with the patterings of dogs. The light slid down the sky--voices rang in
the clear air softly as though the dying day had besought them to be tender. The colours of
the shops, of the green trees, of slim and beautifully-dressed houses were powdered with gold-dust;
the church in Sloane Square began to ring its bells.

Peter, as he turned down the street, was cold--perhaps because Knightsbridge had been blazing
with sunshine and the light here was hidden.... No, it was more than that....

"They say," he thought, "that Cornishmen always know when a disaster's coming. If that's true,
something ought to be going to happen to me."

And then, in a flash, that sound that he had been half-subconsciously expecting, came--the
sound of the sea. He could hear it quite distinctly, a distant, half-determined movement that
seemed so vast in its roll and plunge, so sharp in the shock with which it met the shore, and
yet so subdued that it might be many thousands of miles away. It was as though a vast tide
were dragging back a million shells from an endless shore--the dragging hiss, the hesitating
suspense in mid-air, and then the rattle of the returning wave.

As though hypnotised he closed his eyes. Yes, he was walking along the Sea Road. There was
that range of rock that lay out at sea like a crouching dog. There was that white twisting
circle of foam that lay about the Ragged Stone--out there by itself, the rock with the melancholy
bell. Then through the plunging sea he could hear its note--the moan of some one in pain. And
ever that rattle, that hiss, that suspense, that crash.

"I beg your pardon--" he had run into a lady's maid who was leading a pompous King Charles.
The spaniel eyed him with hatred, the maid with distrust. He passed on--but the Sea had departed.

To chase away his gathering depression he thought that he would go in and have tea with Bobby
and Alice. It was quite late when he got there, and stars were in a sky that was so delicate
in colour that it seemed as though it were exhausted by the glorious day that it had had; a
little sickle moon was poised above the Chelsea trees.

To his disgust he found that Percival and Millicent Galleon were having tea with their brother.
Their reception of him very quickly showed him that "Mortimer Stant" had put a final end to
any hopes that they might have had of his career as an artist.

"How's the book doing, Westcott?" said Percival, looking upon Peter's loose-fitting clothes,
broad shoulders and square-toed shoes with evident contempt.

"Not very well thank you, Galleon."

"Ah, well, it didn't quite come off, did it, Westcott?--not quite. Can't hit the nail every
time. Now young Rondel in this Precipice of his has done some splendid work. We had him to
tea the other day and really he seemed quite a nice unassuming fellow--"

"Oh! shut up," Bobby growled. "You talk too much, Percival."

Peter was growing. Quite a short time ago he would have been furious, would have gone into
his shell, refused to speak to anybody, been depressed and glowering.

Now, smiling, he said:

"Alice, won't you consider it and come up and dine with us after all to-night? It's only my
mother-in-law beside ourselves--"

"No, thanks, Peter. I mustn't. The boy's not quite the thing."

"Well, all right--if you must."

Nevertheless, it hurt, although it was only that young ass of a Galleon. That, though, was
one of the pits into which one must not look.

He felt the little square box that contained the ruby, lying there so snugly in his pocket.
That cheered him.

"I must be getting back. Good-night, everybody. See you at dinner, Bobby."

He went.

After Percival and his sister had also gone Alice said:--

"Dear Peter's growing up."

"Yes," said Bobby. "My sweet young brother wants the most beautiful kicking and he'll get it
very soon." Then he looked at the clock. "I must go up and dress."

"I'm rather glad," said Alice, "I'm not coming. Clare gets considerably on my nerves just at
present."

"Yes," said Bobby, "but thank God Mr. Cardillac's in Paris--for the time being." Then he added,
reflectively--

"Dear old Peter--bless him!"

CHAPTER XV

MR. WESTCOTT SENIOR CALLS CHECKMATE

I

Peter felt as he closed the hall door behind him that The Roundabout was both cold and dark.
The little hall drew dusk into its corners very swiftly and now, as he switched on the electric
light, he was conscious almost of protest on the part of the place, as though it wished that
it might have been left to its empty dusk.

A maid passed him.

"Has your mistress gone upstairs?" he asked her.

"I don't think she has come in, sir."

"Not come in?"

"No, sir, she went out about three o'clock. I don't think she's come back, sir."

She's running it pretty close, he thought as he looked at his watch--then he went slowly up
to dress.

He had been more irritated by the superiorities of young Percival Galleon than he had cared
to confess. Peter had, at the bottom of his soul, a most real and even touching humility. He
had no kind of opinion of his abilities, of his work in comparison with the other workers that
counted. Moreover he would not, were his ultimate critical sense aroused, fail to admit to
himself some certain standard of achievement. Nothing that young Galleon could say mattered
from the critical standpoint--nevertheless he seemed to represent, in this case, a universal
opinion; even in his rejection of Peter one could see, behind him, a world of readers withdrawing
their approval.

"Peter Westcott's no good.... Peter Westcott's no good.... Peter Westcott's no good...."

In any case that was quite enough to account for the oppression that he was feeling--feeling
with increasing force as the minutes passed. He undressed and dressed again slowly, wondering
vaguely, loosely, in the back of his mind, why it was that Clare had not come in. Perhaps she
had come in and the maid had not heard her. He took the ruby out of his pocket, opened the
little case, looked at the jewel shining there under the electric light, thought of Clare with
a sudden rush of passionate affection. "Dear thing, won't she look lovely in it? Her neck's
so white and she's never worn much jewellery--she'll be pleased. She'll know why I'm giving
it to her now--a kind of seal on what we agreed to the other night. A new life ... new altogether...."

He was conscious as he took his shirt off that his windows were open and a strange scent of
burning leaves was with him in the room. It was quite strong, pungent--very pleasant, that
sense of burning. Burning leaves in the orchard.... But it was rather cold. Then he came back
to his looking-glass and, standing there, naked save for his dress trousers, he saw that he
was looking in much better health than he had looked for weeks. The colour had returned to
his face, his eyes were brighter and more alert--the lines had gone. He was strong and vigorous
as he stood there, his body shining under the glow. He opened and shut his hands feeling the
strength, force, in his fingers. Thick-set, sturdy, with his shoulders back again now, straight,
not bent as they had been.

"Oh, I'm all right--I'm all right you know. I'll write some stuff one day..." and even behind
that his thought was--"that young Galleon, by jove, I could jolly well break him if I wanted
to--just snap him up."

And then the odour of the burnt leaves filled his nostrils again; when he had dressed he turned
out the light, opened the windows more widely, and stood for a moment there smelling the smoke,
feeling the air on his forehead, seeing the dark fluttering shadows of the trees, the silver
moon, the dim red haze of the London sky....

II

He went down to his study. Clare must be in now. Bobby would be here in a few minutes. He took
up the Times but his mind wandered. "Mr. Penning Bruce was at his best last night in the new
musical Comedy produced at the Apollo Theatre--the humour of his performance as Lieutenant
Pottle, a humour never exaggerated nor strained...."

But he couldn't attend. He looked up at the little clock and saw that it was nearly dinner-time.
Bobby ought to be here.

He stood up and listened. The house was profoundly silent. It was often silent--but to-night
it was as though everything in the house--the furniture, the pictures--were listening--as though
The Roundabout itself listened.

He went into the hall--stood for a moment under the stairs--and then called "Clare--Clare."
He waited and then again "Clare, Clare--I say, it's late. Come along--"

There was no answer.

Then, crossing the hall, he opened the door of the little drawing-room and looked in. It was
black and empty--here, too, he could smell the burning leaves.

He switched on the light and instantly, perched against the Velasquez Infanta, saw the letter,
white and still before the pink and grey of the picture. At the sight of the letter the room
that had been empty and cold was suddenly burning hot and filled with a thousand voices. "Take
it--take it--why don't you take it? It's been waiting there for you a long time and we've all
been wondering when you were coming in for it. It's waiting there for you. Take it--take it--take
it!"

At the sight of it too, the floor of the room seemed instantly to pitch, slanting downwards,
like the deck of a sinking ship. He caught on to the back of a chair in order that he might
not slip with it. His hands shook and there was a great pain at his heart, as though some one
were pulling it tight, then squeezing it in their fingers and letting it go again.

Then, as suddenly, all his agitation fled. The room was cold and empty again, and his hands
were steady. He took the letter and read it.

It was written in great agitation and almost illegible, and at the bottom of the paper there
was a dirty smudge that might have been a tear stain or a finger mark. It ran:

I must go. I have been so unhappy for so long and we don't get on together, Peter, now. You
don't understand me and I must be happy. I had always been happy until I married you--perhaps
it's partly my fault but I only hinder your work and there is some one else who loves me. He
has always said so.

I would not have gone perhaps if it had not been for what you did on April 12. I know because
some one saw you getting into a cab at midnight with that horrible woman. That shows that you
don't care about me, Peter. But perhaps I would have gone anyhow. Once, the night I told you
about baby coming, I told you there'd be a time when you'd have to hold me. It came--and you
didn't see it. You didn't care--you can't have loved me or you would have seen.... But anything
is better than staying here like this. I am very unhappy now but you will not care. You are
cruel and hard, Peter. You have never understood what a woman wants.

I am going to Jerry in Paris. You can divorce me. I don't care about anything now. I won't
come back--I won't, I won't--Clare.

He read this all through, very carefully with a serious brow. He finished it and then knew
that he had not read a word of it. He went, slowly, to the window and opened it because the
room was of a stifling heat. Then he took the letter again and read it. As he finished it again
he was conscious that the door-bell was ringing. He wondered why it was ringing.

He was standing in the middle of the room and speaking to himself: "The humour of his performance
as Lieutenant Pottle, a humour never exaggerated nor strained ..."

"The humour of his Lieutenant Pottle as a performer--never strained... never exaggerated...
never strained..."

Bobby came in and found him there. Peter's face was so white that his collar and shirt seemed
to be a continuation of his body--a sudden gruesome nakedness. Both his hands were shaking
and his eyes were puzzled as though he were asking himself some question that he could not solve.

Bobby started forward--

"God, Peter, what--"

"She's gone away, Bobby," Peter said, in a voice that shook a little but was otherwise grave
and almost a whisper, so low was it. "She's gone away--to Cardillac." Then he added to himself--"Cardillac
is my best friend."

Then he said "Listen," and he read the letter straight through. He repeated some of the phrases--"What
you did on April 12." "That shows that you don't care.... You are cruel and hard, Peter....
I am going to Jerry in Paris...."

"Jerry--that's Cardillac, you know, Bobby. He's in Paris and she's going over to him because
she can't stand me any more. She says I don't care about her. Isn't that funny, when I love
her so much?"

Bobby went to him, put his arm round his neck--

"Peter--dear--Peter--wait," and then "Oh my God! we must stop her--"

He drew himself away from Bobby's arm and, very unsteadily, went across the room and then stood
against the farther wall, his head bent, motionless.

"Stop her? Oh! no, Bobby. Stop her when she wants to go! I--" His voice wasn't Peter's voice,
it was a thin monotonous voice like some one speaking at a great distance.

Then it seemed that intelligence was flashed upon him. He lurched forward and with a great
voice--as though he had been struck by some sudden agonising, immortal pain--

"Bobby--Bobby--My wife--Clare--"

And at that instant Mrs. Rossiter was shown into the room.

III

The maid who opened the door had apparently some suspicion that "things were odd," because
she waited for a moment before she closed the door again, staring with wide eyes into the room,
catching, perhaps, some hint from her master's white face that something terrible had occurred.

It was obvious enough that Mrs. Rossiter had herself, during the last week, been in no easy
mind. From the first glances at Peter and Bobby she seemed to understand everything, for, instantly,
at that glimpse of their faces she became, for the first time in her life, perhaps, a personality,
a figure, something defined and outlined.

Her face was suddenly grey. She hesitated back against the door and, with her face on Peter,
said in a whisper, to Bobby:

"What--what has happened?"

Bobby was not inclined to spare her. As an onlooker during these last months he felt that she,
perhaps, was more guiltily responsible for the catastrophe than any other human being.

"Clare," he said, trying to fix her eyes. "She's gone off to Cardillac--to Paris."

Then he was himself held by the tragedy of those two faces. They faced each other across the
room. Peter, with eyes and a mouth that were not his, eyes not sane, the eyes of no human being,
mouth smiling, drawn tight like a razor's edge, with his hands spread out against the wall,
watched Mrs. Rossiter.

Mrs. Rossiter, at Bobby's words, had huddled up, suddenly broken, only her eyes, in her great
foolish expressionless face, stung to an agony to which the rest of her body could not move.

Her little soul--a tiny scrap of a thing in that vague prison of dull flesh--was suddenly wounded,
desperately hurt by the only weapon that could ever have found it.

"Clare!" that soul whispered, "not gone! It's not possible--it can't be--it can't be!"

Peter, without moving, spoke to her.

"It's you that have sent her away. It's all your doing--all your doing--"

She scarcely seemed to realise him, although her eyes never left his face--she came up to Bobby,
her hands out:

"Bobby--please, please--tell me. This is absurd--there's a mistake. Clare, Clare would never
do a thing like that--never leave me like that--why--" and her voice rose--"I've loved her--I've
loved her as no mother ever loved her girl--she's been everything to me. She knows it--why
she often says that I'm the only one who loves her. She'd never go--"

Then Peter came forward from the wall, muttering, waving his hands at her--"It's you! You!
You! You've driven her to this--you and your cursed interference. You took her from me--you
told her to deceive me in everything. You taught her to lie and trick. She loved me before
you came into it. Now be proud, if you like--now be proud. God damn you, for making your daughter
into a whore--That's what you've done, you with your flat face, your filthy flat face--you've
made your daughter a whore, I tell you--and it's nothing but you--you--you--!"

He lifted his hand as though he would strike her across the face. She said nothing but started
back with her hands up as though to protect herself. He did not strike her. His hand fell.
But she, as though she had felt a blow had her hand held to her face.

He stood over her for a moment laughing, his head flung back. Then still laughing he went away
from them out into the hall.

Then, through the open door they heard him. He passed through the upper rooms crying out as
he went--"Clare! Clare! Where are you? Come down! They're here for dinner! You're wanted! It's
time, Clare!--where are you? Clare! Clare!"

They heard him, knocking furniture over as he went. Then there was silence. Mrs. Rossiter seemed,
at that, to come to herself. She stood up, feeling her cheek.

"It's sent him off his head, Bobby. Go after him. He'll hurt himself." Then as though to herself,
she went on--"I must find Clare--she'll be in Paris, I suppose. I must go and find her, Bobby.
She'll want me badly."

She went quietly from the room, still with her hand to her cheek. She listened for a moment
in the hall.

She turned round to Bobby:

"It doesn't say--the letter--where Clare's gone?"

"No--only Paris."

He helped her on with her cloak and opened the front door for her. She slipped away down the
street.

Bobby turned back and saw that Peter was coming down the stairs. But now the fury had all died
from his face, only that look, as of some animal wounded to death, a look that was so deep
and terrible as almost to give his white face no expression at all, was with him.

It had been with him at Stephen's death, it was with him far more intensely now. He looked
at Bobby.

"She's gone," in a tired, dull voice as of some one nearly asleep, "gone to Cardillac. I loved
Cards--and all the time he loved Clare. I loved Clare and all the time she loved Cards. It's
damned funny isn't it, Bobby, old man?"

He stood facing him in the hall, no part of him moving except his mouth. "She says I treated
her like a brute. I don't think I did. She says there was something I did one night--I don't
know. I've never done anything--I've never been with another woman--something about a cab--Perhaps
it was poor Rose Bennett. Poor Rose Bennett--damned unhappy--so am I--so am I. I'm a lonely
fellow--I always have been!"

He went past Bobby, back into the little drawing-room. Bobby followed him.

He turned round.

"You can go now, Bobby. I shan't want you any more."

"No, I'm going to stay."

"I don't want you--I don't want any one."

"I'm going to stay."

"I'd rather you went, please."

"I'm going to stay."

Peter paid no more attention. He went and sat down on a chair by the window. Bobby sat down
on a chair near him.

Once Peter said: "They took my baby. They took my work. They've taken my wife. They're too
much for me. I'm beaten."

Then there was absolute silence in the house. The servants, who had heard the tumbling of the
furniture, crept, frightened to bed.

Thus The Roundabout, dark, utterly without sound, stayed through the night. Once, from the
chair by the window in the little drawing-room a voice said, "I'm going back to Scaw House--to
my father. I'm going back--to all of them."

During many hours the little silver clock ticked cheerfully, seeing perhaps with its little
bright eyes, the two dark figures and wondering what they did there.

BOOK IV

SCAW HOUSE

CHAPTER I

THE SEA

I

Peter Westcott was dead.

They put his body into the 11.50 from Paddington.

II

It was a day of high, swinging winds, of dappled skies, of shining gleaming water. Bunches
now and again of heavy black clouds clustered on the horizon, the cows and horses in the fields
were sharply defined, standing out rigidly against a distant background. The sun came and was
gone, laughed and was instantly hidden, turned the world from light to shadow and from shadow
back to light again.

Peter's body was alone in the compartment. It was propped up against red velvet that yielded
with a hard, clenched resistance, something uncomfortable, had the body minded. The eyes of
the body were the high blank windows of a deserted house. Behind them were rooms and passages,
but lately so gaily crowded, so eager, with their lights and fires, for hustling life--now
suddenly empty--swept of all its recent company, waiting for new, for very different inhabitants.

The white hands motionless upon the knees, the eyes facing the light but blind, the body still
against the velvet, throughout the long, long day....

III

There were occasions when some one came and asked for his ticket. Some one came once and asked
him whether "He would take lunch." Once a woman, flushed and excited, laden with parcels, tumbled
into his carriage and then, after a glance at the white face, tumbled out again.

Then, from very, very far away, came the first whispered breath of returning consciousness.
The afternoon sun now had banished the black clouds--the wind had fallen--the sky was a quiet
blue and birds rose and fell, rivers shone and had passed, roads were white like ribbons, broad
and brown like crinkled paper, then ribbons again as the train flung Devonshire, scornfully,
behind its back. Peter was conscious that his body was once more to be tenanted. But by whom?

Here was some one coming to him now, some one who, as the evening light fell about the land,
dark with his cloak to his face, came softly upon the house and knocked at the door. Peter
could hear his knock--it echoed through the empty passages, the deserted rooms, it was a knock
that demanded, imperatively, admittance. The door swung back, the black passages gaped upon
the evening light and were closed again. The house was once more silent--but no longer untenanted.

IV

Peter was now conscious of the world. That was Exeter that they had left behind them and soon
there would be Plymouth and then the crossing of the bridge and then--Cornwall!

Cornwall! His lips were dry--he touched them with his tongue, and knew, suddenly, that he was
thirsty, more thirsty than he had ever been. He would never be hungry again, but he would always
be thirsty. An attendant passed. What should he drink? The attendant suggested a whisky and
soda. Yes ... a large whisky....

It was very long indeed since he had been in Cornwall--he had not been there since his boyhood.
What had he been doing all the time in between? He did not know--he had no idea. This new tenant
of the house was not aware of those intervening years, was only conscious that he was returning
after long exile, to his home--Scaw House, yes, that was the name ... the house with the trees
and the grey stone walls--yes, he would be glad to be at home again with his father. His father
would welcome him after so long an absence.

The whisky and soda was brought to him and as he drank it they crossed the border and were
in Cornwall.

V

They were at Trewth, that little station where you must change for Treliss. It stood open to
all the winds of heaven, two lines of paling, a little strip of platform, standing desolately,
at wistful attention in the heart of gently breathing fields, mild skies, dark trees bending
together as though whispering secrets ... all mysterious, and from the earth there rose that
breath--sea-wind, gorse, soil, saffron, grey stone--that breath that is only Cornwall.

Peter--somewhere in some strange dim recesses of his soul--felt it about his body. The wind,
bringing all these scents, touched his cheek and his hair and he was conscious that that dark
traveller who now tenanted his house closed the doors and windows upon that breath. It might
waken consciousness, and consciousness memory, and memory pain ... ah! pain!--down with the
shutters, bolt the doors--no vision of the outer world must enter here.

The little station received gratefully the evening light that had descended upon it. A few
men and women, dim bundles of figures against the pale blue, waited for the train, a crescent
moon was stealing above the hedges, from the chimneys of two little cottages grey smoke trembled
in the air.

Suddenly there came to Peter, waiting there, the determination to drive. He could not stand
there, surrounded by this happy silence any longer. All those shadows that were creeping about
the dark spaces beyond his house were only waiting for their moment when they might leap. This
silence, this peace, would give them that moment. He must drive--he must drive.

In the road outside the station a decrepit cab with a thin rake of a man for driver was waiting
for a possible customer. The cab was faded, the wheels encrusted with ancient mud, the horse
old and wheezy, but the cabman, standing now thinner than ever against the sky, was, in spite
of a tattered top hat, filled with that cheerful optimism that belongs to the Cornishman who
sees an opportunity of "doing" a foreigner.

"I want to drive to Treliss," said Peter.

They bargained. The battered optimist obtained the price that he demanded and cocked his eye,
derisively, at the rising moon.

Peter surveyed the cab.

"I'll sit with you on the box," he said.

The thin driver made way for him. It was a high jolting cab of the old-fashioned kind, a cab
you might have sworn was Cornish had you seen it anywhere, a cab that smelt of beer and ancient
leather and salt water, a cab that had once driven the fashion of Treliss to elegant dances
and now must rattle the roads with very little to see, for all your trouble, at the end of it.

The sleeping fields, like grey cloths, stretched on every side of them and the white road cut
into the heart of the distance. It was a quarter to eight and a blue dusk. The driver tilted
the top hat over one ear and they were off.

"I know this road as yer might say back'ards. Ask any one down along Treliss way. Zachy Jackson
they'll say--which is my name, sir, if yer requirin' a good 'orse any time o' day. Zachy Jackson!
which there ain't no man,--tarkin' of 'orses, fit to touch 'im, they'll tell yer and not far
wrong either."

But now with every stumbling step of that bony horse Peter was being shaken into a more active
consciousness, consciousness not of the past, very slightly of the present, but rather of an
eager, excited anticipation of events shortly to befall him, of the acute sense--the first
that had, as yet, come to him--that, very shortly, he was to plunge himself into an absolute
abandonment of all the restraints and discipline that had hitherto held him. He did not know,
he could not analyse to himself--for what purpose those restraints had been formerly enforced
upon his life. Only now--at this moment, his body was being flooded with a warm, riotous satisfaction
at the thought of the indulgences that were to be his.

Still this fortress of his house was bare and desolated, but now in some of the rooms there
were lights, fire, whispers, half-hidden faces, eyes behind curtains.

The wind struck him in the face. "Enough of this--you're done for--you're beaten--you're broken...
you're going back to your hovel. You're creeping home--don't make a fine thing of it--" the
wind said.

The top of the hill rolled up to them and suddenly with the gust that came from every quarter
there was borne some sound. It was very delicate, very mysterious--the sound, one might fancy,
that the earth would make if all spring flowers were to pierce the soil at one common instant--so
fugitive a whisper.

"That's the sea," said Mr. Jackson, waving his whip in the air, "down to Dunotter Cove. There's
a wind to-night. It'll blow rough presently."

Now from their hilltop in the light of a baby moon puddles of water shone like silk, hedges
were bending lines of listeners, far on the horizon a black wood, there in one of those precipitous
valleys cottages cowering, overhead the blue night sky suddenly chequered with solemn pompous
slowly moving clouds. But here on the hilltop at any rate, a bustle of wind--such a noise amongst
the hedges and the pools instantly ruffled and then quiet again; and so precipitous a darkness
when a cloud swallowed the moon. In the daylight that landscape, to any who loved not Cornwall,
would seem ugly indeed, with a grey cottage stuck here and there naked upon the moor, with
a bare deserted engine house upon the horizon, with trees, deep in the little valley, but scant
and staggering upon the hill--ugly by day but now packed with a mystery that contains everything
that human language has no name for, there is nothing to do, on beholding it, but to kneel
down and worship God. Mr. Jackson had seen it often before and he went twice to chapel every
Sunday, so he just whipped up his horse and they stumbled down the road.

"Dirty weather coming," he said.

Peter was disturbed. That whispering noise that had crept across the country frightened him.
If it went on much longer it would make him remember--he must not remember.

They turned down into a deep, mysterious lane and the whisper was hidden. Now there was about
them only the urgent crowding of the hedges, the wild-flowers flinging their scent on to the
night air, and above and below and on every side of the old cab there streamed into the air
the sweet smell of crushed grass, as though many fields had been pressed between giant's fingers
and so had been left.

Peter sat there and about him, like flames licking woodwork, evil thoughts devoured his body.
He was going now at last to do all those things that, these many years, he had prevented himself
from doing. That at any rate he knew.... He would drink and drink and drink, until he would
never remember anything again ... never again.... Meanwhile as the cab slowly began to climb
the hill again Mr. Jackson was telling a story.

He rolled his r's as though life were indeed a valuable and happy thing, and now and again,
waving his thin whip in the air, he would seem to appeal to the moon.

"'Twas down to Dunotter Cove and I, a lad, my father bein' a fisherman, and one night, I mind
it as though it were yesterday, there was a mighty wreck. Storm and wind and rain there was
that night and there we were, out in it, suddenly, all the village of us. I but a slip of a
boy, you must know, which it was thirty year back now and the rain sizzling on the cobbles
and the wind blawin' the chimneys crooked. Well--she were a mighty wreck blawn right up against
the Dunotter rocks, you understand, and sendin' up rockets and we seein' her clear enough,
black out to sea which she seemed enormous in the night time and all. My father and the rest
of 'em went out in the boat--we waited and we waited and they didn't come back.... They never
come back--none of them only a crazed luny, Bill Tregothny--'e was washed up against the rocks
down to Bosillian and 'e were just livin' ... And when it come daylight,"--Mr. Jackson cleared
his throat and paused--"when it come daylight there wasn't no wreck--nothing--nor no bodies
neither--nothing--only Bill Tregothny the fool...."

