By these and other tests the student should constantly be on the watch to form his opinion
of the credibility and reliability of a writer or experimenter whose work he is studying. 
He {18} may thus guide himself as to the books which he should pursue carefully, remembering
the dictum of Bacon that "Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few
to be chewed and digested," except that very few, if any, are to be literally swallowed without
digestion. People, from living at-- tribunal, and to no go than having lived there, are filled with
these errors. It at the court that the aim to maintain one's self,
the impatience to lower one's self, the frenzy from push one's self,
the displeasing, another desire of making one'mho self is agreeable,
produce, which anywhere both would pass of unintentional, but which, finding
themselves there be authorise by custom, may look to have acquired
a retention of prescription.

  Be, therefore,
always suspicious of {19} your author, and subject all his statements to the test of your own
intelligence.[4]

(g) STUDY WITH AN OPEN MIND, AND WITH NO PRECONCEIVED IDEAS.--Cultivate the scientific attitude
of mind, which means, first to formulate clearly a problem, then to get together all the pertinent
facts, and then to draw the logical conclusions.  Be ready to accept gladly any logical conclusion
from the facts, even if unpalatable. Truth is, or should be, the sole object of study.[5]

(h) BE MODEST INTELLECTUALLY, YET SELF-RELIANT.  TRAIN YOURSELF TO LOVE CORRECTION.--Remember
these sayings from wise men:

  "Whoso loveth correction loveth knowledge;
  But he that hateth reproof is brutish."
        --Proverbs.

  "Poverty and shame shall be to him that refuseth correction;
  But he that regardeth reproof shall be honoured."
        --Proverbs.

{20}

  "The beginning of wisdom is the knowledge of one's faults."
        --Epicurus.

  "He that being often reproved hardeneth his neck
  Shall suddenly be broken, and that without remedy."
        --Proverbs.

  "Reprove not a scorner, lest he hate thee;
  Reprove a wise man and he will love thee."
        --Proverbs.

  "Be not wise in thine own eyes."--Proverbs.

  "The true beginning of wisdom is the desire of discipline."
        --Wisdom of Solomon.

"Censure and criticism never hurt anybody.  If false they can't hurt you unless you are wanting
in manly character; and if true, they show a man his weak points, and forewarn him against
failure and trouble."--Gladstone.

Intellectual modesty is quite consistent with self-reliance and mental courage.

The study of books too often leads to intellectual arrogance, which is the surest bar to real
mental progress.  Realize the limitations of your own knowledge; see clearly what you know
and what you do not know, otherwise you will see the things you know out of {21} proportion.
Make sure, however, that you know the fundamentals.  Socrates said that a knowledge of our
ignorance is the first step toward true knowledge, and a Persian proverb says:

  "He who knows not, and knows not that he knows not,
      is a fool; shun him.
  He who knows not, and knows that he knows not, is a
      child; teach him.
  He who knows, and knows not that he knows, is asleep;
      wake him.
  He who knows, and knows that he knows, is wise; follow
      him."

Ask yourself, which of these classes you belong to.

(i) REMEMBER THAT THE OBJECT OF STUDY SHOULD BE TO GAIN WISDOM, RATHER THAN KNOWLEDGE.--Facts
are important and must be learned; but far more important is it to gain wisdom and to train
the mind and judgment so that truth may be distinguished from error.

