 2's shoulders and lifted him partly up. Then the dying hero turned
the dim exultation of his eye upon No. 1, and began a slow and labored work with his hands;
gradually he lifted one hand up toward his face; it grew weak and dropped back again; once
more he made the effort, but failed again. He took a rest; he gathered all the remnant of his
strength, and this time he slowly but surely carried his thumb to the side of his nose, spread
the gaunt fingers wide in triumph, and dropped back dead. That picture sticks by me yet. The
"situation" is unique.

The next morning, at what seemed a very early hour, the little white table-waiter appeared
suddenly in my room and shot a single word out of himself "Breakfast!"

This was a remarkable boy in many ways. He was about eleven years old; he had alert, intent
black eyes; he was quick of movement; there was no hesitation, no uncertainty about him anywhere;
there was a military decision in his lip, his manner, his speech, that was an astonishing thing
to see in a little chap like him; he wasted no words; his answers always came so quick and
brief that they seemed to be part of the question that had been asked instead of a reply to
it. When he stood at table with his fly-brush, rigid, erect, his face set in a cast-iron gravity,
he was a statue till he detected a dawning want in somebody's eye; then he pounced down, supplied
it, and was instantly a statue again. When he was sent to the kitchen for anything, he marched
upright till he got to the door; he turned hand-springs the rest of the way.

"Breakfast!"

I thought I would make one more effort to get some conversation out of this being.

"Have you called the Reverend, or are--"

"Yes s'r!"

"Is it early, or is--"

"Eight-five."

"Do you have to do all the 'chores,' or is there somebody to give you a--"

"Colored girl."

"Is there only one parish in this island, or are there--"

"Eight!"

"Is the big church on the hill a parish church, or is it--"

"Chapel-of-ease!"

"Is taxation here classified into poll, parish, town, and--"

"Don't know!"

Before I could cudgel another question out of my head, he was below, hand-springing across
the back yard. He had slid down the balusters, headfirst. I gave up trying to provoke a discussion
with him. The essential element of discussion had been left out of him; his answers were so
final and exact that they did not leave a doubt to hang conversation on. I suspect that there
is the making of a mighty man or a mighty rascal in this boy--according to circumstances--but
they are going to apprentice him to a carpenter. It is the way the world uses its opportunities.

During this day and the next we took carriage drives about the island and over to the town
of St. George's, fifteen or twenty miles away. Such hard, excellent roads to drive over are
not to be found elsewhere out of Europe. An intelligent young colored man drove us, and acted
as guide-book. In the edge of the town we saw five or six mountain-cabbage palms (atrocious
name!) standing in a straight row, and equidistant from each other. These were not the largest
or the tallest trees I have ever seen, but they were the stateliest, the most majestic. That
row of them must be the nearest that nature has ever come to counterfeiting a colonnade. These
trees are all the same height, say sixty feet; the trunks as gray as granite, with a very gradual
and perfect taper; without sign of branch or knot or flaw; the surface not looking like bark,
but like granite that has been dressed and not polished. Thus all the way up the diminishing
shaft for fifty feet; then it begins to take the appearance of being closely wrapped, spool-fashion,
with gray cord, or of having been turned in a lathe. Above this point there is an outward swell,
and thence upward for six feet or more the cylinder is a bright, fresh green, and is formed
of wrappings like those of an ear of green Indian corn. Then comes the great, spraying palm
plume, also green. Other palm trees always lean out of the perpendicular, or have a curve in
them. But the plumb-line could not detect a deflection in any individual of this stately row;
they stand as straight as the colonnade of Baalbec; they have its great height, they have its
gracefulness, they have its dignity; in moonlight or twilight, and shorn of their plumes, they
would duplicate it.

The birds we came across in the country were singularly tame; even that wild creature, the
quail, would pick around in the grass at ease while we inspected it and talked about it at
leisure. A small bird of the canary species had to be stirred up with the butt-end of the whip
before it would move, and then it moved only a couple of feet. It is said that even the suspicious
flea is tame and sociable in Bermuda, and will allow himself to be caught and caressed without
misgivings. This should be taken with allowance, for doubtless there is more or less brag about
it. In San Francisco they used to claim that their native flea could kick a child over, as
if it were a merit in a flea to be able to do that; as if the knowledge of it trumpeted abroad
ought to entice immigration. Such a thing in nine cases out of ten would be almost sure to
deter a thinking man from coming.

We saw no bugs or reptiles to speak of, and so I was thinking of saying in print, in a general
way, that there were none at all; but one night after I had gone to bed, the Reverend came
into my room carrying something, and asked, "Is this your boot?" I said it was, and he said
he had met a spider going off with it. Next morning he stated that just at dawn the same spider
raised his window and was coming in to get a shirt, but saw him and fled.

I inquired, "Did he get the shirt?"

"No."

"How did you know it was a shirt he was after?"

"I could see it in his eye."

We inquired around, but could hear of no Bermudian spider capable of doing these things. Citizens
said that their largest spiders could not more than spread their legs over an ordinary saucer,
and that they had always been considered honest. Here was testimony of a clergyman against
the testimony of mere worldlings--interested ones, too. On the whole, I judged it best to lock
up my things.

Here and there on the country roads we found lemon, papaw, orange, lime, and fig trees; also
several sorts of palms, among them the cocoa, the date, and the palmetto. We saw some bamboos
forty feet high, with stems as thick as a man's arm. Jungles of the mangrove tree stood up
out of swamps; propped on their interlacing roots as upon a tangle of stilts. In drier places
the noble tamarind sent down its grateful cloud of shade. Here and there the blossomy tamarisk
adorned the roadside. There was a curious gnarled and twisted black tree, without a single
leaf on it. It might have passed itself off for a dead apple tree but for the fact that it
had a a star-like, red-hot flower sprinkled sparsely over its person. It had the scattery red
glow that a constellation might have when glimpsed through smoked glass. It is possible that
our constellations have been so constructed as to be invisible through smoked glass; if this
is so it is a great mistake.

We saw a tree that bears grapes, and just as calmly and unostentatiously as a vine would do
it. We saw an India-rubber tree, but out of season, possibly, so there were no shoes on it,
nor suspenders, nor anything that a person would properly expect to find there. This gave it
an impressively fraudulent look. Such men are all too few.

One's eye caught near and far the pink cloud of the oleander and the red blaze of the pomegranate
blossom. In one piece of wild wood the morning-glory vines had wrapped the trees to their very
tops, and decorated them all over with couples and clusters of great bluebells--a fine and
striking spectacle, at a little distance. But the dull cedar is everywhere, and is the prevailing
foliage. One does not appreciate how dull it is until the varnished, bright green attire of
the infrequent lemon tree pleasantly intrudes its contrast. In one thing Bermuda is eminently
tropical--was in May, at least--the unbrilliant, slightly faded, unrejoicing look of the landscape.
For forests arrayed in a blemishless magnificence of glowing green foliage that seems to exult
in its own existence and can move the beholder to an enthusiasm that will make him either shout
or cry, one must go to countries that have malignant winters.

We saw scores of colored farmers digging their crops of potatoes and onions, their wives and
children helping--entirely contented and comfortable, if looks go for anything. We never met
a man, or woman, or child anywhere in this sunny island who seemed to be unprosperous, or discontented,
or sorry about anything. This sort of monotony became very tiresome presently, and even something
worse. The spectacle of an entire nation groveling in contentment is an infuriating thing.
We felt the lack of something in this community--a vague, an indefinable, an elusive something,
and yet a lack. But after considerable thought we made out what it was--tramps. Let them go
there, right now, in a body. It is utterly virgin soil. Passage is cheap. Every true patriot
in America will help buy tickets. Whole armies of these excellent beings can be spared from
our midst and our polls; they will find a delicious climate and a green, kind-hearted people.
There are potatoes and onions for all, and a generous welcome for the first batch that arrives,
and elegant graves for the second.

It was the Early Rose potato the people were digging. Later in the year they have another crop,
which they call the Garnet. We buy their potatoes (retail) at fifteen dollars a barrel; and
those colored farmers buy ours for a song, and live on them. Havana might exchange cigars with
Connecticut in the same advantageous way, if she thought of it.

We passed a roadside grocery with a sign up, "Potatoes Wanted." An ignorant stranger, doubtless.
He could not have gone thirty steps from his place without finding plenty of them.

In several fields the arrowroot crop was already sprouting. Bermuda used to make a vast annual
profit out of this staple before firearms came into such general use.

The island is not large. Somewhere in the interior a man ahead of us had a very slow horse.
I suggested that we had better go by him; but the driver said the man had but a little way
to go. I waited to see, wondering how he could know. Presently the man did turn down another
road. I asked, "How did you know he would?"

"Because I knew the man, and where he lived."

I asked him, satirically, if he knew everybody in the island; he answered, very simply, that
he did. This gives a body's mind a good substantial grip on the dimensions of the place.

