The third week of the holidays arrived; in another week school would begin.  Claire succumbed
to temptation once more, purchased two good tickets for an afternoon concert at the Queen's
Hall, and invited Cecil to be her guest.  Cecil hesitated, evidently torn between two attractions,
asked permission to defer her answer until the next day, but finally decided to accept.  From
remarks dropped from time to time Claire had gathered that Major Carew was not fond of indoor
entertainments, and somewhat disappointed his fiancee by his unwillingness to indulge her wishes
in that respect.  In this instance she had evidently balanced the concert against an afternoon
in the Major's society, and the concert had won.  Claire found herself cordially in agreement.

When the afternoon arrived the two girls arrayed themselves in their best clothes, and set
off in high spirits for their afternoon's amusement.  Their seats were in a good position,
and the concert was one of the best of the season.  All went as happily as it could possibly
go, until the last strains of "God save the King" had been played, and the audience filed out
of the hall on to the crowded pavement, and then, with a throb of disgust, Claire recognised
the figure of a man who was standing directly beneath a lamp-post, his black eyes curiously
scanning the passing stream--Major Carew!  He had evidently been told of the girls' destination,
and had come with the express purpose of meeting them coming out.  For the moment, however,
they were unrecognised, and Claire gave a quick swerve to the right, hurrying out of the patch
of light into the dimness beyond.  The street was so full that, given a minute's start, it
would surely be easy to escape.  She slid her hand through Cecil's arm, drawing her forward.

"Come along!  Come along!  Let's hurry to Fuller's before all the tables are taken!"

"Fuller's?  Tea?  How scrumptious!  Just what I longed for.  Listening to classical music is
thirsty work!"  Cecil replied, laughing.  She was so lively, so natural and unconcerted that
Claire absolved her on the moment from any arrangement as to a rendez-vous.  In her anxiety
to secure the longed-for cup of tea she broke into a half-run, but it was too late; the sharp
black eyes had spied them out, the tall figure loomed by their side, the large face, with its
florid colouring, smiled a broad smile of welcome.

"Hulloa, Mary!  Thought it was you.  I was just passing along.  Good afternoon, Miss Gifford.
It is Miss Gifford, isn't it?  Had a good concert, I hope--a pleasant afternoon?"

"Very good, thank you," said Claire shortly.

Mary cried, "Oh, Frank!  You!  How did you come?  I didn't expect--" And the tone of her voice
showed that the surprise was hardly more agreeable to her than to her companion.  However welcome
her lover might be on other occasions, it was obvious that she had not wished to see him at
this particular moment.

"Well, well, we must move on; we mustn't block up the pavement," the Major said hastily.  He
took his place by the kerb, which placed him next to Claire, and bent over with an assiduous
air.  "You must let me escort you!  Where were you bound for next?"

Claire hesitated.  She wished with all her heart that she had not mentioned Fuller's, so that
she could reply that they were bound for the Tube.  Oxford Circus was only a step away; in
five minutes they could have been seated in the train; but Cecil had declared that she was
longing for tea, so it would be ungracious to withdraw the invitation.

"We were going to Fuller's."

"Right!"  The Major's tone was complacent.  "Good idea!  How shall we go?  Taxi?  Tube?  Which
do you prefer?"

Claire stared at him in surprise.

"But it's here!  Quite close.  We're nearly there."

He looked disconcerted, unnecessarily disconcerted, Claire thought; for it was surely no disgrace
for a man to be ignorant of the locality of a confectioner's shop!  From the other side came
Cecil's voice, cool and constrained--

"If you were going anywhere, Frank, you needn't stay with us.  We can look after each other.
We are accustomed to going about alone."

"Please allow me the pleasure.  There's plenty of time.  I should enjoy some tea immensely.
Always take it when I get the chance!"

The block on the pavement made consecutive conversation impossible, and the three edged their
way in and out in silence until Fuller's was reached, and one of the last tables secured. 
The room looked very bright and dainty, the Christmas garlands still festooning the walls and
framing the mirrors, the hanging lights covered by rose-coloured shades. The soft pink light
was very kind to the complexions of the visitors, nevertheless Claire felt a guilty pang as
she looked into the nearest mirror and beheld the reflection of herself and her friend as they
sat side by side.  As a rule, it was pure pleasure to realise her own fair looks; but for the
moment they were of no importance, whereas poor dear Cecil had a lover to please, and there
was no denying Cecil was not looking her best!  Her expression was frowning and dissatisfied.
She had taken off her veil in the hall and her hair was disarranged; compared with the fashionable
groups round the other tables, she looked suddenly shabby and insignificant, her little attempts
at decoration pitifully betraying the amateur hand.

"Oh, dear me, why won't she smile?  She looks quite pretty when she smiles.  I'll hold her
before a mirror some day and show her the difference it makes.  Ten years disappear in a flash!
Now what in the world had I better be--agreeable and chatty, or cold and stand-off? I'll do
anything to please her, but it is hard lines having our afternoon spoiled, and being sulked
at into the bargain.  Cakes, please--lots of sweet, sugary cakes!  Won't that do, Cecil?  We
can have bread-and-butter at home!"

"Cecil!  Cecil!  Her name is Mary.  Why do you call her Cecil?" cried the Major quickly, looking
from one girl to another.  Claire fancied there was a touch of suspicion in his voice, and
wondered that he should show so much interest in a mere nickname.

"Because she is `Rhodes,' of course."

For a moment his stare showed no understanding, then, "Oh! that fellow!" he said slowly.  "I
see!  It's a pretty name anyway.  Beats Mary to fits.  Mary is so dull and prosaic.  Too many
of them about.  One gets sick of the sound."

"Is that intended for me by any chance?" asked Cecil in her most acid tones, whereupon the
Major cried, "Oh!  Put my foot in it that time, didn't I?" and burst into a long guffaw of
laughter, which brought on him the eyes of the surrounders.

Claire's interest had already been aroused by a little party of two men and two women who were
sitting at a table in the corner of the room, and who were, to her thinking, by far the most
attractive personalities present.  The men were tall, well set up, not especially handsome
in any way, but possessing an unmistakable look of breeding.  One of the women was old, the
other young, and it would have been hard to say which was the more attractive of the two. 
They were quietly but very elegantly dressed, handsome furs being thrown back, to show pretty
bodices of ninon and lace.

When Major Carew gave that loud unrestrained laugh, the four members of this attractive party
turned to see whence the sound arose; but whereas three faces remained blankly indifferent,
the fourth was in the moment transformed into an expression of the liveliest surprise.  He
stared, narrowing his eyes as if doubting that they were really seeing aright, twisted his
head to get a fuller view, and, obtaining it, twisted back into his original position, his
lips twitching with laughter.  Then he spoke a few words, his companions leant forward to listen,
and to two faces out of the three, the laughter spread on hearing what he had to say.

Only the elder of the two ladies retained her gravity.  Her sweet glance rested on Claire's
face, and her brow contracted in distress.  In the Major and Cecil she showed no interest,
but Claire's appearance evidently aroused curiosity and pity.  "What is she doing in that galere?"
The question was written on every line of the sweet high- bred face, and Claire read its significance
and flinched with distaste.

"How they stare!" cried Mary Rhodes.  "The man looked as if he knew you, Frank.  Do you know
who he is?"

"He's a member of the Club.  His name is Vavasour.  We know each other by sight."  Major Carew's
florid colour had grown a shade deeper, he was evidently disconcerted by the encounter; but
he made a strong effort to regain his composure, smiled at the two girls in turn, and cried
lightly, "Envies me, I suppose, seeing me with two such charmers!"

"He didn't look exactly envious!"  Cecil said drily.  She also had noticed that reflection
in the mirror, and it had not helped to soothe her spirits.  She felt an unreasoning anger
against Claire for appearing more attractive than herself, but it did not occur to her that
she was heightening the contrast by her own dour, ungracious manner.  Altogether that tea-party
was a difficult occasion, and as it proceeded, Claire's spirits sank ever lower and lower.
She had spent more than she had any right to afford on those two expensive tickets, hoping
thereby to give pleasure, and now Cecil was in a bad temper, and would snap for days to come.--It
was not a cheerful outlook, and for the second time a feeling of restiveness overtook her,
a longing for a companion who would help the gaiety of life--such a companion as pretty, lively,
happy-go-lucky Sophie Blake, for example.  How refreshing it would be to live with Sophie!
Just for a moment Claire dwelt wistfully on the possibility, then banished it with a loyal
"She doesn't need me, and Cecil does. She's fond of me in her funny way.  She must be, for
she has confided in me already, more than in any of the others whom she's known for years,
and perhaps I may be able to help..."

The Major passed his cup for a second supply; a waitress brought a plate of hot cakes; the
occupants of the corner table stood up, fastening furs and coats, and passed out of the door.
With their going Major Carew regained his vivacity, chaffed the girls on their silence, recounted
the latest funny stories, and to Claire's relief addressed himself primarily to his fiancee,
thus putting her in the place of honour.

Nevertheless Claire was conscious that from time to time keen glances were cast in her own
direction.  She had a feeling that no detail of her attire escaped scrutiny, that the black
eyes noted one and all, wondered, and speculated, and appraised.  She saw them dwell on the
handsome fur stole and muff which Mrs Judge bequeathed to her daughter on sailing for India,
on the old diamond ring and brooch which had been handed over to her on her twenty-first birthday;
she had an instinctive feeling that she rose in the man's estimation because of her air of
prosperity.  He made tentative efforts to arrange a further meeting. "Where do you go on Sundays,
Miss Gifford?  I say, we must arrange another tea like this.  Lots of good tea places in town.
We must sample them together.  What do you say, Miss Gifford?"

Claire's answers were politely evasive, and presently he began to grow restless, and finally
pulled out his watch, and jumped to his feet.

"How time flies!  I had no idea it was so late.  I must run.  So sorry to leave you like this."

Mary Rhodes stared in surprise.

"Leave!  Frank!  But you said--I thought we were going--"

"Yes, I know, I know.  I'm sorry, I thought I was free--but--a regimental engagement!  Can't
get out of it.  I'll fix up another night. I'll write."

There was no doubt that he was genuinely disconcerted at the lateness of the hour, and his
leave-taking was of the most hasty description, though he found time to give a lingering pressure
to Claire's hand; then he was gone, and the waitress came across the room and presented the bill.

Cecil flushed uncomfortably.

"I must pay this.  Frank has forgotten.  He rushed off in such a hurry."

She pulled out her shabby purse, and Claire made no protest.  In a similar position she herself
would have wished to pay, but it was inconceivable that she should ever be in such a position.
However hurried a man might be-- She rubbed her hand on her knee with a little shudder of distaste.
"Wretch!  He would make love to me, too, if I would allow it!  How can Cecil possibly care
for such a man?"

And then she forgot Cecil's feelings to ponder on a more perplexing problem.

Why had the man called Vavasour looked so amused, and why had the sweet- faced woman looked
so distressed?

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

A DOUBLE INVITATION.

Janet Willoughby sent Claire a picture postcard, all white snow and strong shadow, and dazzling
blue sky, and little black figures pirouetting on one leg with the other raised perilously
in the rear. "This is me!" was written across the most agile of the number, while a scrawling
line across the top ran, "Happy New Year!  Returning on Tuesday.  Hope to see you soon."  Tuesday
was the day on which school re-opened; but Janet's holiday was year long, not a short four weeks.

Cecil moaned loudly, but Claire was tired of aimless days, and welcomed the return to work.
She determined to throw her whole heart into her task, and work as no junior French mistress
had ever worked before; she determined never to lose patience, never to grow cross, never to
indulge in a sarcastic word, always to be a model of tact and forbearance.  She determined
to wield such an ennobling influence over the girls in her form-room that they should take
fire from her example, and go forth into the world perfect, high-souled women who should leaven
the race.  She determined also to be the life and soul of the staff-room--the general peace-maker,
confidante, and consoler, beloved by one and all.  She determined to seize tactfully upon every
occasion of serving the Head, and acting as a buffer between her and disagreeables of every
kind.  She arranged a touching scene wherein Miss Farnborough, retiring from work and being
asked by the Committee to name a worthy successor, pronounced unhesitatingly, "Claire Gifford;
she is but young, but her wisdom and diplomacy are beyond all praise."  She saw herself Head
of Saint Cuthbert's, raised to the highest step of her scholastic ladder, but somehow the climax
was not so exhilarating as the climb itself.  To be head mistress was, no doubt, a fine achievement,
but it left her cold.

Inside Saint Cuthbert's all was life and bustle.  Girls streaming along the corridors, in and
out of every room; girls of all ages and sizes and shapes, but all to-day bearing an appearance
of happiness and animation. Bright-coloured blouses shone forth in their first splendour; hair-
ribbons stood out stiff and straight; many of the girls carried bunches of flowers to present
to the special mistress for whom they cherished the fashionable "G.P."  (grand passion) so
characteristic of school life.

Flora had a bunch of early daffodils for Claire.  Another girl presented a pot of Roman hyacinths
for the decoration of the form-room, a third a tiny bottle of scent; three separate donors
supplied buttonholes of violets.  The atmosphere was full of kindness and affection.  Girls
encountering each other would fall into each other's arms with exclamations of ecstatic affection.
"Oh, you precious lamb!"

"My angel child!"

"You dear, old, darling duck!"  Claire heard a squat, ugly girl with spectacles and a turned-up
nose addressed as "a princely pet" by an ardent adorer of fourteen.  The mistresses came in
for their own share of adulation--"Darling Miss Gifford, I do adore you!"

"Miss Gifford, darling, you are prettier than ever!"

"Oh, Miss Gifford, I was dying to see you!"

The morning flew past, and lunch-time brought the gathering of mistresses in staff-room.  Mademoiselle's
greetings were politely detached, Fraulein was kindly and discursive, Sophie's smile was as
bright as ever, but she did not look well.

"Oh, I'm all right!  It's nothing.  Only this horrid old pain!" she said cheerfully.  Into
her glass of water she dropped three tabloids of aspirin.  Every one had been away for a longer
or shorter time, visiting relatives and friends; they compared experiences; some had enjoyed
themselves, some had not; but they all agreed that they were refreshed by the change.

"And where have you been?" asked the drawing mistress of Claire, and exclaimed in surprise
at hearing that she had remained in town.  "Dear me, I wish I had known!  I've been back a
fortnight.  We might have done something together.  Weren't you dull?" asked the drawing mistress,
staring with curious eyes.

"Very!" answered poor Claire, and for a moment struggled with a horrible inclination to cry.

After lunch Miss Bates took her cup of coffee to Claire's side, and made an obvious attempt
to be pleasant.

"I feel quite remorseful to think of your holidays.  It's astonishing how little we mistresses
know of each other out of school hours.  The first school I was in--a much smaller one by the
sea,--we were so friendly and jolly, just like sisters, but in the big towns every one seems
detached.  It's hard on the new-comers.  I don't know what I should have done if I hadn't a
brother's house to go to on Sundays and holiday afternoons.  Except through him, I haven't
made a single friend. At the other place people used to ask us out, and we had quite a good
time; but in town people are engrossed in their own affairs.  They haven't time to go outside."

"I wonder you ever left that school!  What made you want to change?"

"Oh, well!  London was a lure.  Most people want to come to London, and I had my brother. 
Do tell me, another time, if you are not going away. It worries me to think of you being alone.
How did you come to get this post, if you have no connections in town?"

"Miss Farnborough came to stay in Brussels, in the pension which my mother and I had made headquarters
for some time.  She offered me the post."

Miss Bates stared with distended eyes.  "How long had she known you?"

"About a fortnight, I think.  I don't remember exactly."

"And you had never seen her before?  She knew nothing about you?"

"She had never seen me before, but she did know something about me. Professionally speaking,
she knew all there was to know."

"That accounts for it," said Miss Bates enigmatically.  "I wondered-- You are not a bit the
usual type."

"I hope that doesn't mean that I can't teach?"

Miss Bates laughed, and shrugged her thin shoulders.  "Oh, no.  I should say, personally, that
you teach very well.  That play was extraordinarily good.  It absolutely sounded like French.
Can't think how you knocked the accent into them!  English girls are so self- conscious; they
are ashamed of letting themselves go.  Mademoiselle thinks that your classes are too like play;
but it doesn't matter what she thinks, so long as--" she paused a moment, lowered her voice,
and added impressively, "Keep on the right side of Miss Farnborough.  You are all right so
long as you are in her good books.  Better be careful."

"What do you mean?"  Claire stared, puzzled and discomposed, decidedly on the offensive; but
Miss Bates refused a definite answer.

"Nothing!" she said tersely.  "Only--people who take sudden fancies, can take sudden dislikes,
too.  Ask no more questions, but don't say I didn't warn you, that's all!"

She lifted her coffee-cup, and strolled away, leaving Claire to reflect impatiently, "More
poison!  It's too bad.  They won't let one be happy!"

Before the end of the week school work settled into its old routine, and the days passed by
with little to mark their progress.  The English climate was at its worst, and three times
out of four the journey to school was accomplished in rain or sleet.  The motor-'buses were
crammed with passengers, and manifested an unpleasant tendency to skid; pale- faced strap-holders
crowded the carriages of the Tube; for days together the sky remained a leaden grey.  It takes
a Mark Tapley himself to keep smiling under such conditions.  As Claire recalled the days when
she and her mother had sat luxuriously under the trees in the gardens of Riviera hotels, listening
to exhilarating bands, and admiring the outline of the Esterels against the cloudless blue
of the sky, the drab London streets assumed a dreariness which was almost insupportable.  Also,
though she would not acknowledge it to herself, she was achingly disappointed, because something
which she had sub-consciously been expecting did not come to pass.  She had expected something
to happen, but nothing happened; all through February the weeks dragged on, unrelieved by any
episode except the weekly mail from India.

The little brown bird still industriously piped the hour; but his appearance no longer brought
the same warm thrill of happiness.  And then one morning came a note from Janet Willoughby.

"Dear Miss Gifford,--

"I should really like to call you `Claire,' but I must wait to be asked! I have been meaning
to write ever since we returned from Saint Moritz; but you know how it is in town, such a continual
rush, that one can never get through half the things that ought to be done!  We should all
like to see you again.  Mother has another `At Home' on Thursday evening next, and would be
glad to see you then, if you cared to come; but what I should like is to have you to myself!
On Saturday next I could call for you, as I did at Christmas, and keep you for the whole day.
Then we could talk as we couldn't do at the `At Homes,' which are really rather dull, duty
occasions.

"Let me know which of these propositions suits you best.  Looking forward to seeing you,--

"Your friend, (if you will have me!)

"Janet Willoughby."

Claire had opened the letter, aglow with expectation; she laid it down feeling dazed and blank.
For the moment only one fact stood out to the exclusion of every other, and that was that Janet
did not wish her to be present at the "At Home."  Mrs Willoughby had sent the invitation, but
Janet had supplemented it by another, which could not be refused.  "I would rather have you
to myself."  How was it possible to refuse an invitation couched in such terms?  How could
one answer with any show of civility, "I should prefer to come with the crowd?"

Claire carried the letter up to her cold bedroom, and sat down to do a little honest thinking.

"It's very difficult to understand what one really wants!  We deceive ourselves as much as
we do other people...  Why am I so hideously depressed?  I liked going to the `At Home,' I
liked dressing up, and driving through the streets, and seeing the flowers and the dresses,
and having the good supper; but, if that were all, I believe I'd prefer the whole day with
Janet.  I suppose, really, it's Captain Fanshawe that's at the bottom of it.  I want to meet
him, I thought I should meet him, and now it's over.  I shan't be asked again when there's
a chance of his coming.  Janet doesn't want me.  She's not jealous, of course--that's absurd--but
she wants to keep him to herself, and she imagines somehow that I should interfere--"

Imagination pictured Janet staring with puzzled, uneasy eyes across the tables in the dining-room,
of Janet drearily examining the piled-up presents in the boudoir, and then, like a flash of
light, showed the picture of another face, now eager, animated, admiring, again grave and wistful.
"Is your address still the Grand Hotel?--My address is still the Carlton Club."

"Ah, well, well!" acknowledged Claire to her heart, "we did like each other.  We did love being
together, and he remembered me; he sent me the clock when he was away.  But it's all over now.
That was our last chance, and it's gone.  He'll go to the At Home, and Mrs Willoughby will
tell him I was asked, but preferred to come when they were alone, and he'll think it was because
I wanted to avoid him, and--and, oh, goodness, goodness, goodness! how miserable I shall feel
sitting here all Thursday evening, imagining all that is going on!  Oh, mother, mother, your
poor little girl is so lonesome!  Why did you go so far away?"

Claire put her head down on the dressing-table, and shed a few tears, a weakness bitterly regretted,
for like all weaknesses the consequences wrought fresh trouble.  Now her eyelids were red,
and she was obliged to hang shivering out of the window, until they had regained their natural
colour, before she could face Cecil's sharp eyes.

Janet arrived soon after eleven o'clock on Saturday morning, and was shown into the saffron
parlour where Claire sat over her week's mending. She wore a spring suit purchased in Paris,
and a hat which was probably smart, but very certainly was unbecoming, slanting as it did at
a violent angle over her plump, good-humoured face, and almost entirely blinding one eye. 
She caught sight of her own reflection in the overmantel and exclaimed, "What a fright I look!"
as she seated herself by the table, and threw off her furs.  "Don't hurry, please.  Let me
stay and watch.  What are you doing?  Mending a blouse?  How clever of you to be able to use
your fingers as well as your brains!  I never sew, except stupid fancy-work for bazaars.  So
this is your room!  You told me about the walls.  Can you imagine any one in cold blood choosing
such a paper?  But it looks cosy all the same.  I do like little rooms with everything carefully
in reach.  They are ever so much nicer than big ones, aren't they?"

"No."

Janet pealed with laughter.

"That's right, snub me!  I deserve to be snubbed.  Of course, I meant when you have big ones
as well!  Who is the pretty girl in the carved frame?  Your mother!  Do you mean it, really?
What a ridiculous mamma! I'm afraid, Claire, I'm afraid she is even prettier than you!"

"Oh, she is; I know it.  But I have more charm," returned Claire demurely, whereat they laughed
again--a peal of happy girlish laughter, which reached Lizzie's ears as she polished the oilcloth
in the hall, and roused an envious sigh.

"It's well to be some folks!" thought poor Lizzie.  "Motor-cars, and fine dresses, and nothing
to do of a Saturday morning but sit still and laugh.  I could laugh myself if I was in her shoes!"

Claire folded away her blouse, and took up a bundle of gloves.

"These are your gloves.  They have been such a comfort to me.  There's a button missing somewhere.
Tell me all about your holiday!  Did you have a good time?  Was it as nice as you expected?"

"Yes.  No.  It was a good time, but--do you think anything ever quite comes up to one's expectation?
I had looked forward to that month for the whole year, and had built so many fairy castles.
You have stayed in Switzerland?  You know how the scene changes when the sun sinks, how those
beautiful alluring rose-coloured peaks become in a minute awesome and gloomy.  Well, it was
rather like that with me.  I don't mean that it was gloomy; that's exaggerating, but it was
prose, and I had pictured it poetry.  Heigho!  It's a weary world."

Claire's glance was not entirely sympathetic.

"There are different kinds of prose.  You will forgive my saying that your especial sort is
an Edition de luxe."

"I know!  I know!  You can't be harder on me than I am on myself.  My dear, I have a most sensible
head.  I'm about as practical and long- headed as any woman of forty.  It's my silly old heart
which handicaps me.  It won't fall into line...  Have you finished your mending?  May I come
upstairs and see your room while you dress?"

For just the fraction of a moment Claire hesitated.  Janet saw the doubt, and attributed it
to disinclination to exhibit a shabby room; but in reality Claire was proud of her attic, which
a little ingenuity had made into a very charming abode.  Turkey red curtains draped the window,
a low basket-chair was covered in the same material, a red silk eiderdown covered the little
bed.  On the white walls were a profusion of photographs and prints, framed with a simple binding
of leather around the glass.  The toilet table showed an array of well-polished silver, while
a second table was arranged for writing, and held a number of pretty accessories.  A wide board
had been placed over the narrow mantel, on which stood a few good pieces of china and antique
silver. There was nothing gimcrack to be seen, no one-and-elevenpenny ornaments, no imitations
of any kind; despite its sloping roof and its whitewashed walls, it was self-evidently a lady's
room, and Janet's admiration was unfeigned.

"My dear, it's a lamb!  I love your touches of scarlet.  Dear me, you've quite a view!  I shall
have sloping walls when I change my room.  They are ever so picturesque.  It's a perfect duck,
and everything looks so bright.  They do keep it well!"

"I keep it well!"  Claire corrected.  "Lizzie `does' it every morning, but it's not a doing
which satisfies me, so I put in a little manual labour every afternoon as a change from using
my brain.  I do all the polishing.  You can't expect lodging-house servants to clean silver
and brass."

"Can't you?  No; I suppose you can't."  Janet's voice of a sudden sounded flat and absent.
There was a moment's pause, then she added tentatively, "You have a cuckoo clock?"

Claire was thankful that her face was screened from view as she was in the process of tying
on her veil.  A muffled, "Yes," was her only reply.

Janet stood in front of the clock, staring at it with curious eyes.

"It's--it's like--there were some just like this in a shop at Saint Moritz."

"They are all much alike, don't you think?"

"I suppose they are.  Yes--in a way.  Some are much better than others. This is one of the best--"

"Yes, it is.  It keeps beautiful time.  I had it in the sitting-room, but Miss Rhodes objected
to the noise."

"Was it in Saint Moritz that you bought it?"

"I didn't buy it.  It was a present."

That finished the cross-questioning, since politeness forbade that Janet should go a step further
and ask the name of the friend, which was what she was obviously longing to do.  She stood
a moment longer, staring blankly at the clock, then gave a little sigh, and moved on to examine
the ornaments on the mantelpiece.  Five minutes later the two girls descended the staircase,
and drove away from the door.

The next few hours passed pleasantly enough, but Claire wondered if it were her own imagination
which made her think that Janet's manner was not quite so frank and bright as it had been before
she had caught sight of the cuckoo clock.  She never again said, "Claire"; but her brown eyes
studied Claire's face with a wistful scrutiny, and from time to time a sharp little sigh punctuated
her sentences.

"But what could I tell her?"  Claire asked unhappily of her sub- conscience.  "I don't know--I
only think; and even if he did send it, it doesn't necessarily affect his feelings towards
her.  He was going to see her in a few days; and she is rich and has everything she wants,
while I am poor and alone.  It was just kindness, nothing more." But though her head was satisfied
with such reasoning, her heart, like Janet's, refused to fall into line.

At tea-time several callers arrived, foremost among them a tall man whom Claire at once recognised
as the original of a portrait which stood opposite to that of Captain Fanshawe on the mantelpiece
of Janet's boudoir.  This was "the kind man, the thoughtful man," the man who remembered "little
things," and in truth he bore the mark of it in every line of his good-humoured face.  Apart
from his expression, his appearance was ordinary enough; but he was self-evidently a man to
trust, and Claire found something pathetic in the wistful admiration which shone in his eyes
as they followed Janet Willoughby about the room.  To ordinary observers she was just a pleasant
girl with no pretensions to beauty; to him she was obviously the most lovely of her sex.  He
had no attention to spare for Claire or the other ladies present; he was absorbed in watching
Janet, waiting for opportunities to serve Janet, listening eagerly to Janet's words.  It is
not often that an unengaged lover is so transparent in his devotion, but Malcolm Heward was
supremely indifferent to the fact that he betrayed his feelings.

At ten o'clock Claire rose to take leave, and Mrs Willoughby made a request.

"I am going to ask you to do me a favour, dear.  A friend is having a Sale of Work at her house
for a charity in which we are both interested, and she has asked me to help.  It is on a Saturday
afternoon and evening, and I wondered if I might ask you to take part in the little concerts.
Whistling is always popular, and you do it so charmingly.  I would send the car for you, and
take you home, of course, and be so very much indebted.  You don't mind my asking?"

"No, indeed; I should be delighted.  Please let me help you whenever you can."

In the bedroom upstairs Janet deliberately introduced Malcolm Heward's name.

"That was the man I told you about at Christmas.  He was one of the party at Saint Moritz.
What did you think of him?"

"I liked him immensely.  He looks all that you said he was.  He has a fine face."

"He wants to marry me."

Claire laughed softly.

"That's obvious!  I never saw a man give himself away so openly."

"Do you think I ought to accept him?"

"Oh, how can I say?  It's not for me to advise.  I hope, whoever you marry, you'll be very,
very happy!"

Suddenly Janet came forward and laid her hands on Claire's arm.

"Oh, Claire, I do like you!  I do want to be friends, but sometimes I have the strangest thoughts."
Before Claire had time to answer, she had drawn back again, and was saying with a little apologetic
laugh, "I am silly!  Take no notice of what I say.  Here's your fur; here's your muff.  Are
you quite sure you have all your possessions?"

CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

A QUESTION OF MONEY.

The next week was memorable to Claire as marking the beginning of serious anxiety with regard
to Sophie.  She had looked ill since the beginning of the term, and the bottle of aspirin tabloids
had become quite an accustomed feature on the luncheon table; but when questioned she had always
a smile and an easy excuse.

"What can you expect in this weather?  No one but a fish could help aching in these floods.
I'm perfectly all right!"

But one morning this week, meeting her on an upper landing, Claire discovered Sophie apparently
dragging herself along with her hands, and punctuating each step with a gasp of pain.  She
stood still and stared, whereupon Sophie instantly straightened herself, and ascended the remaining
steps in a normal manner.

"Sophie," cried Claire sternly, "don't pretend!  I heard you; I saw you! My dear girl, is the
rheumatism so bad?"

Sophie twisted her head this way and that, her lips pursed in warning.

"S-sh!  Be careful!  You never know who is about.  I am rather stiff to-day.  This raw fog
has been the last straw.  I shall be all right when we get through this month.  I hate March!
It finds out all the weak spots.  Please, Claire, don't take any notice.  A Gym. mistress has
no business to have rheumatism.  It's really very good for me to be obliged to keep going.
It is always worse at the beginning of the day."

Claire went away with a pain in her heart, and the pain grew steadily as she watched Sophie
throughout the week.  The pretty face was often drawn with pain, she rose and sat down with
an obvious effort; and still the rain poured, and the dark fog enveloped the city, and Sophie
struggled to and from her work in a thin blue serge suit which had already seen three winters'
wear.

One day the subject came up for discussion in the staff-room, and Claire was shocked and surprised
at the attitude of the other teachers.  They were sorry for Sophie, they sympathised, to a
certain extent they were even anxious on her account, but the prevailing sentiment seemed to
be that the kindest thing was to take no notice of her sufferings.  No use pitying her; that
would only make her more sorry for herself.  No use suggesting cures; cures take time, not
to speak of money.  The Easter holidays would soon be here; perhaps she might try something
then.  In the meantime--tant pis! she must get along as best she could.  There was simply no
time to be ill.

"I've a churchyard cough myself," declared the Arts mistress.  "I stayed in bed all Saturday
and Sunday, and it was really a little better, but it was as bad as ever after a day in this
big draughty hole."

"And I am racked with neuralgia," chimed in Miss Bates.  The subject of Sophie was lost in
a general lamentation.

Friday evening came, and after the girls had departed Claire went in search of Sophie, hoping
tactfully to be able to suggest remedial methods over the week-end.  She peeped into several
rooms before at last, in one of the smallest and most out-of-the-way, she caught sight of a
figure crouched with buried head at the far end of the table.  It was Sophie, and she was crying,
and catching her breath in a weak exhausted fashion, pitiful to hear.  Claire shut the door
tightly, and put her arms round the shaking form.

"Miss Blake--Sophie!  You poor, dear girl!  You are tired out.  You have been struggling all
the week, but it's Friday night, dear, remember that!  You can go home and just tumble into
bed.  Don't give way when you've been so brave."

But for the moment Sophie's bravery had deserted her.

"It's raining!  It's raining!  It always rains.  I can't face it.  The pain's all over me,
and the omnibuses won't stop!  They expect you to jump in, and I can't jump!  I don't know
how to get home."

"Well, I do!"  Claire cried briskly.  "There's no difficulty about that. I'm sick of wet walks
myself.  I'll whistle for a taxi, and we'll drive home in state.  I'll take you home first,
and then go on myself; or, if you like, I'll come in with you and help you to bed."

"P-please.  Oh, yes, please, do come!  I don't want to be alone," faltered Sophie weakly; but
she wiped her eyes, and in characteristic fashion began to cheer up at the thought of the drive
home.

There was a cheerful fire burning in Sophie's sitting-room, and the table was laid for tea
in quite an appetising fashion.  The landlady came in at the sound of footsteps, and showed
a sympathetic interest at the sight of Sophie's tear-stained face.

"I told you you weren't fit to go out!" she said sagely.  "Now just sit yourself down before
the fire, and I'll take your things upstairs and bring you down a warm shawl.  Then you shall
have your teas.  I'll bring in a little table, so you can have it where you are."  She left
the room, and Sophie looked after her with grateful eyes.

"That's what I pay for!" she said eloquently.  "She's so kind!  I love that woman for all her
niceness to me.  I told you I had no right to pay so much rent.  I came in just for a few weeks
until I could find something else, and I haven't had the heart to move.  I've been in such
holes, and had such awful landladies.  They seem divided into two big classes, kind and dirty,
or clean and mad!  When you get one who is kind and clean, you feel so grateful that you'd
pay your last penny rather than move away.  Oh, how lovely! how lovely! how lovely!  It's Friday
night, and I can be ill comfortably all the time till Monday morning!  Aren't we jolly well-off
to have our Saturdays to ourselves? How thankful the poor clerks and typists would be to be
in our place!"

She was smiling again, enjoying the warmth of the fire, the ease of the cushioned chair.  When
Mrs Rogers entered she snoodled into the folds of a knitted shawl, and lay back placidly while
the kind creature took off her wet shoes and stockings and replaced them by a long pair of
fleecy woollen bed-socks, reaching knee high.  The landlady knelt to her task, and Sophie laid
a hand on the top of starched lace and magenta velvet, and cried, "Rise, Lady Susan Rogers!
One of the truest ladies that ever breathed..."

"How you do talk!" said the landlady, but her eyes shone.  As she expounded to her husband
in the kitchen, "Miss Blake had such a way with her.  When ladies were like that you didn't
care what you did, but there was them as treated you like Kaffirs."

Tea was quite a cheerful and sociable little meal, during which no reference was made to Sophie's
ailments, but when the cups had been replaced on the central table, Claire seated herself and
said with an air of decision--

"Now we're going to have a disagreeable conversation!  I don't approve of the way you have
been going on this last month, and it's time it came to an end.  You are ill, and it's your
business to take steps to get better!"

"Oh!"

"Yes; and you are going to take them, too!"

"What am I going to do?"

"You are going to see a specialist next week."

"You surprise me!"  Sophie smiled with exaggerated lightness.  "What funny things one does hear!"

"Why shouldn't you see a specialist?  I defy you to give me one sensible reason?"

"I'll do better than that.  I'll give you two."

"So do, then!  What are they?"

"Guineas!" said Sophie.

For a moment Claire stared blankly, then she laughed.

"Oh, I see!  Yes.  It is rather a haul.  But it's better to harden your heart once for all,
and pay it down."

"The two guineas is only the beginning."

"The beginning of what?"

"Trouble!" said Sophie grimly.  "Baths, at a guinea apiece.  Massage, half-a-guinea a time.
Medicine, liniments, change of air.  My dear, it's no use.  What's the use of paying two guineas
to hear a man tell you to do a dozen things which are hopelessly impossible?  It's paying good
money only to be aggravated and depressed.  If it comes to that, I can prescribe for myself
without paying a sou...  Knock off all work for a year.  Go to Egypt, or some perfectly dry
climate, and build up your strength.  Always get out of London for the winter months.  Live
in the fresh air, and avoid fatigue...  How's that?  Doesn't that strike you as admirable advice?"

She put her head on one side with a gallant attempt at a smile, but her lips twitched, and
the flare of the incandescent light showed her face lined and drawn with pain.  Claire was
silent, her heart cramping with pain.  The clock ticked on for several minutes, before she
asked softly--

"Have you no savings, Sophie?  No money to keep you if you did take a rest?"

"Not a sou.  It's all I can do to struggle along.  I told you I had to help a young sister,
and things run up so quickly, that it doesn't seem possible to save.  I suppose many people
would say one ought to be able to do it on a hundred a year; that's all I have left for myself!
Hundreds of women manage on less, but as a rule they come from a different class, and can put
up with a style of living which would be intolerable to us.  I don't complain of the pay. 
I don't think it is bad as things go: it's only when illness comes that one looks ahead and
feels--frightened!  Suppose I broke down now, suppose I broke down in ten years' time!  I should
be over forty, and after working hard for twenty years I should be left without a penny piece;
thrown on the scrap heap, as a worn-out thing that was no more use.  But I might still live
on, years upon years.  Oh, dear! why did you make me think of it?  It does no good; only gives
one the hump.  There is no Pension scheme, so I simply can't afford to be ill.  That's the
end of it."

"Don't you think if you went to Miss Farnborough, and explained to her--"

Sophie turned a flushed, protesting face.

"Never!  Not for the world, and you mustn't either.  Promise me faithfully that you will never
give so much as a hint.  Miss Farnborough is a capital head, but her great consideration is
for the pupils; we only count in so far as we are valuable to them.  She'd be sorry for me,
of course, and would give me quite a lot of advice, but she'd think at once, `If she's rheumatic,
she won't be so capable as a Gym. mistress; I must get some one else!'  No, no, my dear, I
must go on, I must fight it out.  You'd be surprised to see how I can fight when Miss Farnborough
comes on the scene!"

"Very well.  You have had your say, now I'm going to have mine!  If you go on as you have been
doing the last month, growing stiffer week by week, you won't be able to hide it!  The other
mistresses talk about it already.  They were discussing you in staff-room last week.  If you
go on trusting to chance, you are simply courting disaster.  Now I'll tell you what I am going
to do.  I'm going to find out the address of a good specialist, and make an appointment for
next Saturday morning.  You shan't have any trouble about it, and I'll call in a taxi, and
take you myself, and bring you safely back.  And it will be the wisest and the cheapest two
guineas you ever spent in your life.  Now!  What have you got to say to that?"

"Oh, I don't know, I don't know!  You are very kind.  I suppose I ought to be grateful.  I
suppose you are right.  Oh, I'll go, I suppose, I must go.  Bother!" cried Sophie ungraciously,
whereupon Claire hastily changed the conversation, and made no further reference to health
during the rest of her visit.

Mrs Willoughby supplied the name of a specialist; the specialist granted an appointment for
the following Saturday at noon, when the two girls duly appeared in his consulting-room; and
Sophie underwent the usual examination, during which the great doctor's face assumed a serious
air.  Finally he returned to the round-backed chair which stood against the desk, and faced
his patient across the room.  Sophie was looking flushed and pretty, she was wearing her best
clothes, and she wore them with an air which might well delude a masculine eye into believing
them much better than they really were.  Claire had her usual smart, well-turned-out appearance.
They seemed to the doctor's eyes two prosperous members of Society.

"I fear," he said gravely, "I fear that there is no doubt that your rheumatism is the sort
most difficult to treat.  It is a clear case of rheumatoid arthritis, but you are young, and
the disease is in an early stage, so that we must hope for the best.  In olden times it was
supposed to be an incurable complaint, but of late years we have had occasional cures, quite
remarkable cures, which have mitigated that decision.  You must realise, however, that it is
a difficult fight, and that you will need much patience and perseverance."

"How soon do you think you can cure me?"

The doctor looked into Sophie's face, and his eyes were pitiful.

"I wish I could say, but I fear that's impossible.  Different people are affected by different
cures.  You must go on experimenting until you find one that will suit your case; meanwhile
there are certain definite instructions which you would do well to observe.  In what part of
London do you live?"  He pursed-up his lips at the reply.  "Clay!  Heavy clay. The worst thing
you could have.  That must be altered at once.  It is essential that you live on light, gravelly
soil, and even then you should not be in England in winter.  You should go abroad for four
or five months."

Sophie cast a lightning glance at her companion.  "It's impossible!" she said shortly.  "I
can't move.  I can't go abroad.  I am a High School- mistress.  I am obliged to stay at my
work.  I am dependent on my salary.  I knew it was stupid to come.  I knew what you would say.
I told my friend.  It was her doing.  She made me come--"

"I am very much indebted to your friend," the doctor said genially. "She was quite right to
insist that you should have advice, and now that I know the circumstances, I'll try not to
be unreasonable.  I know how aggravating it must be to be ordered to do things which are clearly
impossible; but you are young, and you are threatened with a disease which may cripple your
life.  I want to do all that is in my power to help you.  Let's talk it over quietly, and see
what can be done."

"I'm in school every day until half-past four, except on Saturdays, and I can't afford to wait.
I must get better, and I must be quick about it, or I shall lose my post.  If I leave this
school through rheumatism, it will go down in my testimonial, and I should never get another
opening.  I'm the Gym. mistress."

"Poor girl!" said the doctor kindly.  "Well," he added, "I can say one thing for your encouragement;
you could not help yourself more than by preserving your present attitude of mind.  To determine
to get better, and to get better quickly, is a very valuable aid to material means. And now
I will tell you what I propose."

He bent forward in his chair, talking earnestly and rapidly.  There was no time to be lost,
since the disease was apt to take sudden leaps forward; at this stage every day was of value;
the enemy must be attacked before he had made good his hold.  There was a new treatment which,
within his own experience, had had excellent results.  It was not a certainty; it was very
far from a certainty, but it was a chance, and it had this merit, that a month or six weeks
would prove its efficacy in any special case.  If this failed, something else must be tried,
but most cures were very long, very costly.  He would propose in the first instance giving
two injections a week; later on three or even four. There might be a certain amount of reaction.

"What do you mean by reaction?"  Sophie asked.

"Fever, headache.  Possibly sickness, but not lasting for more than twenty-four hours."

Sophie set her lips.

"I have no time to be ill!"

The doctor looked at her with deliberate sternness.

"You will have all your life to be ill, if you do not take care now!  I will do what I can
to help you; we will arrange the times most convenient to you.  You might come to me at first
direct from school on Wednesdays and Saturdays.  Later on the system will accustom itself,
and you will probably feel no bad effects.  I should like to undertake your case myself.  My
charge to you will be a quarter of my ordinary fee."

"Thank you very much," stammered Sophie, "but--"

Claire jumped up, and hastily interposed.

"Thank you so very much!  We are most grateful, but it's--it's been rather a shock, and we
have not had time to think.  Will you allow us to write and tell you our decision?"

"Certainly.  Certainly.  But be quick about it.  I am anxious to help, but every week's delay
will make the case more difficult.  Try to arrange for Wednesday next."

As he spoke he led the way towards the door.  He had been all that was kind and considerate,
but there were other patients waiting; all day long a procession of sufferers were filing into
that room.  He had no more time to give to Sophie Blake.  The two girls went out into the street,
got into a taxi and were driven swiftly away.  Neither spoke. They drew up before the door
of Sophie's lodgings, entered the cosy sitting-room and sat down by the fire.

"Well!"  Sophie's face was flushed, her eyes were dry and feverishly bright.  "I hope you are
satisfied, my dear.  I've been to a specialist to please you, and a most depressing entertainment
it has been. Arthritis!  That's the thing people have who go about in Bath chairs, and have
horrible twisted fingers.  It was supposed to be incurable, but now they have `an occasional
cure,' so I must hope for the best!  I do think doctors are the stupidest things!  They have
no tact.  He could tell me that in one breath, and in the other that it was most important
that I should have hope.  Well!  I have hope.  I have faith, but it's not because of his stupid
injections.  I believe in God, and God knows that I need my health, and that other people need
it too.  My little sister!  What would happen to her if I crocked now?  I don't believe He
will let me grow worse!"

"That's all right, Sophie dear, but oughtn't you to use the means?  I don't call it trusting
in the right sense if you set yourself against the help that comes along.  God doesn't work
miracles as He did in the old way; the world has progressed since those old times, and now
He works through men.  It is a miracle just the same, though it shows itself in a more natural
fashion.  Don't you call it a miracle that a busy doctor should offer to treat you himself,
at the hours most convenient to you, and to do it at a quarter of his usual fees?"

"His fee for to-day was two guineas.  They always charge that, I suppose--these specialist
people.  A quarter of that would mean half-a- guinea a visit.  Two half-guineas equal one guinea.
Later on, three or four half-guineas a week would equal one-and-a-half to two guineas.  Two
guineas equal my whole income.  Very kind, no doubt--very kind indeed. And just about as feasible
as if he'd said a thousand pounds."

Claire was busy calculating, her fingers playing upon her knee.  Ten guineas ought to pay for
the six weeks which would test the efficacy of the vaccine.  Surely there could not be any
serious difficulty about ten guineas?

"Wouldn't your brother?"

Sophie shook her head.

"I wouldn't ask him.  He has four small children, and he does so much for Emily.  More than
he can afford.  He works too hard, poor fellow. If it were a certainty, perhaps it might be
managed somehow; but it's only a chance, and six weeks won't see the end."

"But the end will be quicker if you begin at once.  The doctor said that every day was of importance.
Sophie, listen!  I've got the money.  I've got it lying in the bank.  I'll lend it to you.
I'd love to lend it. If you'll let me, I'll send you a cheque to-night; that will pay for the
first six weeks--"

Sophie stretched out her hand, and gave a momentary clasp to Claire's fingers.

"You are a good soul!  Fancy offering that to a stranger like me! It's noble of you, my dear.
Perfectly sweet!  I'm awfully grateful, but it's absolutely impossible that I could accept.
When could I pay you back?  I've never been able to save, but I have kept out of debt, and
it would worry me to death to have ten pounds hanging round my neck. Besides, we shouldn't
be any further.  At the end of the six weeks I should either be better, in which case he would
certainly want me to go on; or worse, when I should have to try something else!  You don't
propose that I should go on borrowing from you at the rate of one or two guineas a week?"

"I--I'm afraid I haven't got it to give."

"Very well, then--there you are!  What's the good of beginning at all?"

Claire put her hands over her face and thought with that intense and selfless thought which
is as a prayer for help.  The future seemed dark indeed, and the feeling of helplessness was
hard to bear.  Two lonely girls, with no one to help, and so much help that was needed!  Here
was indeed the time for prayer.

"Sophie, it's horribly difficult; we can't see ahead.  We can only `do the next thing.'  It
is your duty to take this cure now, and the way has opened for that.  When we've come to the
end of the six weeks, it may open again.  You said you have trust in God.  It's no use talking
generalities, if you are not prepared to put your faith into practice. The question for to-day
is, Can you trust Him for the beginning of May?"

Sophie smiled.

"I like that!  That's a nice way of putting it.  Yes, I can; but, Claire (I must call you Claire,
you are such a dear!), I wish it didn't mean borrowing other people's money!  It will be years
before I can pay you back.  It may be that I can never do it."

"I would have said `give,' but I was afraid it would hurt your pride. My stepfather gave me
some money to buy jewellery for a wedding present, and as a pure matter of selfishness I'd
get more pleasure out of helping you than out of a stupid brooch.  And listen, Sophie, listen!
I'm going to explain.--I chose to take up teaching because I wanted to be independent, and
I knew my mother would be happier without me during the first years of her marriage; but she
is devoted to me, and I know in time she will crave to have me back.  She isn't strong, and
she finds the Indian climate trying, so very likely she may need my help.  I shall never be
sorry that I came to London, for work is a splendid experience, and I am glad to have it; but
I have never the feeling that it is going to last.  Mother comes first, and my stepfather is
quite well-off, and can afford to keep me; so if I were needed, I should not feel that I was
sacrificing my independence in letting him do it.  So you see I am not quite in the same position
as the other mistresses, and money is not of the same importance.  If you were in my place,
Sophie, would you hesitate to lend me a ten-pound note?"

"Guineas, please!" cried Sophie, laughing to hide her tears.  "All right, my dear, all right!
I give in.  I lie down.  You've beaten me. I've nothing more to say.  I'll take the horrid
old injections, and pay for them with your money, and--and--I think I'll go to bed now, please!
I've had about as much as I can bear for one short day!"

"And I'll go home and have a rest myself.  I am to help at a bazaar this afternoon, and I don't
feel at all in my full beauty.  Good-bye, Sophie. Cheer up!  There's a good time coming!"

"There's a good time coming for you!" predicted Sophie confidently.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN.

"LEND ME FIVE POUNDS!"

The contrasts of life seemed painfully strong to Claire Gifford that Saturday afternoon as
she seated herself in the luxurious car by Mrs Willoughby's side, and thought of Sophie Blake
obliged to borrow ten pounds to pay for a chance of health, and the contrast deepened during
the next few hours, as she watched beautifully gowned women squandering money on useless trifles
which decked the various "stalls."  Embroidered cushions, painted sachets, veil cases, shaving
cases, night-dress cases, bridge bags, fan bags, handkerchief bags, work bags; bags of every
size, of every shape, of every conceivable material; bead necklaces, mats--a wilderness of
mats--a very pyramid of drawn-thread work.  Claire found a seat near the principal stall, where
she caught the remarks of the buyers as they turned away. "...I detest painted satin!  Can't
think why I bought that ridiculous sachet.  It will have to go on to the next bazaar."

"...That makes my twenty-third bag!  Rather a sweet, though, isn't he? It will go with my grey
dress."

"This is awful!  I'm not getting on at all.  I can't decently spend less than five pounds.
For goodness' sake tell me what to buy!"

"Can't think why people give bazaars!  Such an upset in the house.  For some charity, I believe--I
forget what.  She asked me to come..."

So on and so on; scores of women surging to and fro, swinging bags of gold and silver chain,
buying baubles for which they had no use; occasionally--very occasionally, for love of the
cause; often--very often because Lady --- had sent a personal invitation, and Lady --- was
a useful friend, and gave such charming balls!

At the two concerts Claire had a pleasant success, which she enjoyed with all her heart.  Her
whistling performance seemed to act as a general introduction, for every listener seemed to
be anxious to talk to her, and to ask an infinitude of questions.  Was it difficult?  How long
did it take to learn?  Was she nervous?  Wasn't it difficult not to laugh?  How did she manage
not to look a fright?  Did she do it often? Did she mind?  This last question usually led up
to a tentative mention of some entertainment in which the speaker was interested, but after
the first refusal Claire was on guard, and regretted that her time was filled up.  She was
eager to help Mrs Willoughby, but had no desire to be turned into an unpaid public performer!

Janet did not appear at the bazaar, so the drive home was once more a tete-a-tete, during which
Mrs Willoughby questioned Claire as to the coming holidays, and expressed pleasure to hear
that they were to be spent in Brussels.  She was so kind and motherly in her manner that Claire
was emboldened to bespeak her interest on Sophie's behalf.

"I suppose," she said tentatively, "you don't know of any family going abroad to a dry climate--it
must be a very dry climate--who would like to take a girl with them to--er--to be a sort of
help!  She's a pretty girl, and very gay and amusing, and she's had the highest possible training
in health exercises.  She would be splendid if there was a delicate child who needed physical
development, and, of course, she is quite well educated all round.  She could teach up to a
certain point. She is the Gym. mistress in my school, and is very popular with the girls."

"And why does she want to leave?"

"She's not well.  It's rheumatism--a bad kind of rheumatism.  It is just beginning, and the
doctor says it ought to be tackled at once, and that to live on clay soil is the worst thing
for her.  If she stays at Saint Cuthbert's she's practically bound to live on clay.  And he
says she ought to get out of England for the next few winters.  She has not a penny beyond
her salary, but if she could find a post--"

"Well, why not?"  Mrs Willoughby's voice was full of a cheerful optimism.  "I don't know of
anything at present, but I'll make inquiries among my friends.  There ought not to be any difficulty.
So many people winter abroad; and there is quite a craze for these physical exercises. Oh,
yes, my dear, I am sure I can help.  Poor thing! poor girl! it's so important to keep her health.
I must find some one who will be considerate, and not work her too hard."

She spoke as if the post were a settled thing; as if there were several posts from which to
choose.  Probably there were.  Among her large circle of wealthy friends this popular and influential
woman, given a little trouble, could almost certainly find a chance for Sophie Blake. Given
a little trouble!  That was the rub!  Five out of six of the women who had thronged Lady ---'s
rooms that afternoon would have dismissed Sophie's case with an easy sympathy, "Poor creature!
Quite too sad, but really, you know, my dear, it's a shocking mistake to recommend any one
to a friend.  If anything goes wrong, you get blamed yourself.  Isn't there a Home?"  Mrs Willoughby
was the exception to the rule; she helped in deed, as well as in word.  Claire looked at the
large plain face with a very passion of admiration.

"Oh, I wish all women were like you!  I'm so glad you are rich.  I hope you will go on growing
richer and richer.  You are the right person to have money, because you help, you want to help,
you remember other women who are poor."

"My dear," said Mrs Willoughby softly, "I have been poor myself.  My father lost his money,
and for years we had a hard struggle.  Then I married--for love, my dear, not money, but there
was money, too,--more money than I could spend.  It was an intoxicating experience, and I found
it difficult not to be carried away.  My dear husband had settled a large income on me, for
my own use, so I determined, as a safeguard, to divide it in two, and use half for myself and
half for gentlewomen like your friend, who need a helping hand.  I have done that now for twenty-five
years, but I give out of my abundance, my dear; it is easy for me to give money; I deserve
no credit for that."

"You give time, too, and sympathy, and kindness.  It's no use, Mrs Willoughby.  I've put you
on the topmost pinnacle in my mind, and nothing that you can say can pull you down.  I think
you are the best woman in London!"

"Dear, dear, you will turn my head!  I'm not accustomed to such wholesale flattery," cried
Mrs Willoughby, laughing; then the car stopped, and Claire made her adieux, and sprang lightly
to the ground.

The chauffeur had stopped before the wrong house, but he did not discover his mistake as Claire
purposely stood still until he had turned the car and started to retrace his way westward.
The evening was fine though chill, and the air was refreshing after the crowded heat of Lady
---'s rooms.  Claire had only the length of a block to walk, and she went slowly, drawing deep
breaths to fill her tired lungs.

The afternoon had passed pleasantly enough, but it had left her feeling flat and depressed.
She questioned herself as to the cause of her depression.  Was she jealous of those other girls
who lived lives of luxury and idleness?  Honestly she was not.  She was not in the position
of a girl who had known nothing but poverty, and who therefore felt a girl's natural longing
for pretty rooms, pretty clothes, and a taste of gaiety and excitement.  Claire had known all
these things, and could know them again; neither was she in the position of a working girl
who has no one to help in the day of adversity, for a comfortable home was open to her at any
moment.  No! she was not jealous: she probed still deeper, and acknowledged that she was disappointed!
Last time that she had whistled in public--

Claire shook her head with an impatient toss.  This was feeble.  This was ridiculous.  A man
whom she had met twice!  A man whose mother had refused an introduction.  A man whom Janet--

"I must get to work, and prepare my lesson for Monday.  Nothing like good work to drive away
these sentimental follies!"

But Fate was not kind, for right before her eyes were a couple of lovers strolling onward,
the man's hand through the girl's arm, his head bent low over hers.  Claire winced at the sight,
but the next moment her interest quickened in a somewhat painful fashion, as the man straightened
himself suddenly, and swung apart with a gesture of offence.  The lovers were quarrelling!
Now the width of the pavement was between them; they strode onward, ostentatiously detached.
Claire smiled to herself at the childishness of the display.  One moment embracing in the open
street, the next flaunting their differences so boldly that every passer-by must realise the
position!  Surely a grown man or woman ought to have more self-control.  Then suddenly the
light of a lamp shone on the pair, and she recognised the familiar figures of Mary Rhodes and
Major Carew.  He wore a long light overcoat.  Cecil had evidently slipped out of the house
to meet him, for she was attired in her sports coat and knitted cap.  Poor Cecil!  The interview
seemed to be ending in anything but a pleasant fashion.

Claire lingered behind until the couple had passed her own doorway, let herself in with her
latch-key, and hastened to settle down to work. When Cecil came in, she would not wish to be
observed.  Claire carried her books to the bureau, so as to have her back to the fire, but
before she had been five minutes writing, she heard the click of the lock, and Cecil herself
came into the room.

"Halloa!  I saw the light go up.  I thought it must be you."  She was silent for a couple of
minutes, then spoke again in a sharp, summoning voice: "Claire!"

"Yes?"

Claire turned round, to behold Cecil standing at the end of the dining- table, her bare hands
clasping its rim.  She was so white that her lips looked of a startling redness; her eyes met
Claire with a defiant hardness.

"I want you to lend me five pounds now!"

Claire's anxiety was swallowed in a rising of irritation which brought an edge of coldness
into her voice.

"Five pounds!  What for?  Cecil, I have never spoken of it, I have never worried you, but I've
already paid--"

"I know!  I know!  I'll pay you back.  But I must have this to-night, and I've nowhere else
to go.  It's important.  I would lend it to you, Claire, if it were in my power."

"Cecil, I hate to refuse, but really--I need my money!  Just now I need it particularly.  I
can't afford to go on lending.  I'm dreadfully sorry, but--"

"Claire, please!  I implore you, just this one time!  I'll pay you back...  There's my insurance
policy--I can raise something on that. For pity's sake, Claire, help me this time!"

Claire rose silently and went upstairs.  It was not in her to refuse such a request while a
five-pound note lay in her desk upstairs.  She slipped the crackling paper into an envelope,
and carried it down to the parlour.  Cecil took it without a word, and went back into the night.

When she had gone, Claire gathered her papers together in a neat little heap, ranged them in
a corner of the bureau, and seated herself on a stiff-backed chair at the end of the table.
She looked as if she were mounted on a seat of justice, and the position suited her frame of
mind. She felt angry and ill-used.  Cecil had no right to borrow money from a fellow-worker!
The money in the bank was dwindling rapidly; the ten guineas for Sophie would make another
big hole.  She did not grudge that--she was eager and ready to give it for so good a cause;
but what was Cecil doing with these repeated loans?  To judge from appearances, she was rather
poorer than richer during the last few months, while bills for her new clothes came in again
and again, and received no settlement.  An obstinate look settled on Claire's face.  She determined
to have this thing out.

In ten minutes' time Cecil was back again, still white, still defiant, meeting Claire's glance
with a shrug, seating herself at the opposite end of the table with an air of callous indifference
to what should come next.

"Well?"

"Well?"

"You look as if you had something to say!"

"I have.  Cecil, what are you doing with all this money?"

"That's my business, I suppose!"

"I don't see it, when the money is mine!  I think I have the right to ask?"

"I've told you I'll pay you back!"

"That's not the question.  I want to know what you are doing now!  You are not paying your bills."

"I'll sell out some shares to-morrow, and--"

"You shall do no such thing.  I can wait, and I will wait, but I can't go on lending; and if
I did, it could do you no good.  Where does the money go?  It does you no good!"

"I am the best judge of that."

"Cecil, are you lending money to that man?"

The words leapt out, as on occasion such words will leap, without thought or premeditation
on the speaker's part.  She did not intend to speak them; if she had given herself one moment
for reflection she dared not have spoken them; when their sound struck across the quiet room
she was almost as much startled as Cecil herself; yet heart and brain approved their utterance;
heart and brain pronounced that she had discovered the truth.

Cecil's face was a deep glowing red.

"Really, Claire, you go too far!  Why in the world should you think--"

"I saw you with him now in the street.  I could see that you were quarrelling; you took no
pains to hide it.  You left him to come in to me, and went back again.  It seems pretty obvious."

"Well! and if I did?"  Cecil had plainly decided that denial was useless.  "I am responsible
for the loan.  What does it matter to you who uses it?"

But at that Claire's anger vanished, and she shrank back with a cry of pain and shame.

"And he took it from you?  Money!  Took it from a girl he professes to love--who is working
for herself!  Oh, Cecil, how could he?  How could you allow him?  How can you go on caring
for such a man?"

"Don't get hysterical, Claire, please.  There's nothing so extraordinary in a man being hard
up.  It's happened before now in the history of the world.  Frank has a position to keep up,
and his father--I've told you before how mean and difficult his father is, and it's so important
that Frank should keep on good terms just now.--He dare not worry him for money.  When he is
going to make me a rich woman some day, why should I refuse to lend him a few trifling pounds
when he runs short?  He's in an expensive regiment; he belongs to an expensive Club; he is
obliged to keep up with the other men.  If I had twice as much I would lend it with pleasure."

Claire opened her lips to say that at least no more borrowed money should be supplied for Major
Carew, but the words were never spoken. Pity engulfed her, a passion of pity for the poor woman
who a second time had fallen under the spell of an unscrupulous man.  Cecil's explanation had
fallen on deaf ears, for Claire could accept no excuses for a man who borrowed from a woman
to ensure comfort and luxury for himself.  An officer in the King's army!  The thing seemed
incredible; so incredible that, for the first time, a rising of suspicion mingled with her
dislike.  Mentally, she rehearsed the facts of Major Carew's history as narrated by himself,
and found herself doubting every one. The beautiful house in the country--did it really exist?
The eccentric old father who refused to part with his gold--was he flesh and blood, or a fictitious
figure invented as a convenient excuse?  The fortune which was to enrich the future--was there
such a fortune?  Or, if there were, was Major Carew in truth the eldest son?  Claire felt a
devastating helplessness her life abroad had left her ignorant of many British institutions;
she knew nothing of the books in which she might have traced the Carew history; she had nothing
to guide her but her own feminine instinct, but if that instinct were right, what was to become
of Mary Rhodes?

Her face looked so sad, so downcast, that Cecil's conscience was pricked.

"Poor old Claire!" she said gently, "how I do worry you, to be sure! Never mind, my dear, I'll
make it up to you one day.  You've been a brick to me, and I shan't forget it.  And I'll go
to my mother's for the whole of the Easter holidays, and save up my pennies to pay you back.
The poor old soul felt defrauded because I stayed only a week at Christmas, so she'll be thankful
to have me.  You can go to Brussels with an easy mind, knowing that I'm out of temptation.
That will be killing two birds with one stone.  What do you say to having cocoa now, instead
of waiting till nine o'clock?  We've tired ourselves out with all this fuss?"

CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

THE MEETING IN HYDE PARK.

It was the end of May.  The weather was warm and sunny, the windows of the West End were gay
with flowers; in the Park the great beds of rhododendrons blazed forth in a glow of beauty.
It was the season, and a particularly gay and festive season at that.  "Everybody" was in town,
including a few million "nobodies."  There were clerks toiling by their thousands in the City,
chained all day long to their desks; there were clerks' wives at home in the suburbs, toiling
all day too, and sometimes far into the night; there were typists, and shop assistants, and
prosperous heads of households, who worked steadily for five and a half days a week, in order
that their families might enjoy comfort and ease, condensing their own relaxation into short
Saturday afternoons.  And there were school-mistresses, too, who saw the sun through form-room
windows, but felt its call all the same--the call of the whole glad spring--and grew restless,
and nervous, and short in temper.  It was not the leaders of society whom they envied; they
read of Court balls, and garden parties, of preparations for Ascot and Henley with a serene
detachment, just as they read with indifference in the fashion page of a daily newspaper that
"Square watches are the vogue this season, and our elegantes are ordering several specimens
of this dainty bauble to match the prevailing colours of their costumes," the while they suffered
real pangs at the sight of an "alarming sacrifice" at twenty-nine and six.  The one was almost
within their grasp; the other floated in the nebulous atmosphere of a different sphere.

In the staff-room at lunch-time the staff grew restless and critical. The hot joints no longer
appealed to their appetites, the watery vegetables and heavy puddings became things abhorred.
They thought of cool salads and compotes on ice, and hated the sight of the greasy brown gravy.
They blamed the cook, they blamed the Committee, they said repeatedly, "Nobody thinks of us!"
and exchanged anecdotes illustrative of the dulness, the stupidity of their pupils.  As for
the Matric. candidates, they would all fail!  There wasn't a chance for a single one.  The
stupidest set of girls the school had ever possessed! Oh, certainly they would all fail!

"And then," said Mary Rhodes bitterly, "we shall be blamed."

The Arts mistress said with a sigh--

"Oh, wouldn't it be heavenly to run away from it all, and have a week- end in the country!
The gorse will be out, and the hawthorn still in blossom.  What's the very cheapest one could
do it on for two days?"

Mademoiselle said--

"Absolutely, ma chere, there is no help for it.  It is necessary that I have a distraction.
I must buy a new hat."

Sophie Blake said defiantly to herself--

"Crippled?  Ridiculous!  I refuse to be crippled.  I want to run, and run, and run, and run,
and dance, and sing, and jump about!  I feel pent!  I feel caged!  And all that precious money
squandered on injections..."

The six weeks' course of treatment had been, from the doctor's point of view, a complete success;
from Sophie's a big disappointment.  She argued that she was still stiff, still in pain, that
the improvement was but small; he pointed out that without the injections she would of a certainty
have been worse, and since in arthritis even to remain stationary was a success, to have improved
in the smallest degree in six weeks' time might be regarded as a triumph.  He prescribed a
restful holiday during the Easter vacation, and a second course of treatment on her return.
Sophie resigned herself to do without new clothes for the summer, and sold her most treasured
possession, a diamond ring which had belonged to her mother, so that the second ten pounds
was secure.  But how was she to pay back the original loan?

Meanwhile Mrs Willoughby was inquiring among her friends for a suitable post, and had played
the good fairy by arranging to send Sophie for the Easter holidays to a country cottage on
the Surrey heights, which she ran as a health resort for gentlewomen.  Here on a fine dry soil,
the air scented with the fragrant breath of the pines, with nothing to do, and plenty of appetising
food to eat, the Gym. mistress's general health improved so rapidly that she came back to school
with her thin cheeks quite filled out.

"Very satisfactory," said the doctor.  "Now I shall be able to get on to stronger doses!"

"What's the good of getting better, only to be made worse?" cried Sophie in rebellion.

Cecil's loan remained unpaid.  She had spent her holidays with her mother as arranged, but
her finances did not appear to have profited thereby.  Dunning for bills became so incessant
that the landlady spoke severely of the "credit of the house."  She went out constantly in
the evening, and several times Claire heard Major Carew's voice at the door, but he never came
into the house, and there was no talk of an open engagement.

As for Claire herself, she had had a happy time in Brussels, staying with both English and
Belgian friends and re-visiting all the old haunts.  She thoroughly enjoyed the change, but
could not honestly say that she wished the old life to return.  If she came back with a heavy
heart, it was neither poverty nor work which she feared, but rather the want of that atmosphere
of love and kindliness which make the very essence of home.  At the best of times Mary Rhodes
was a difficult companion and far from affectionate in manner, but since the giving of that
last loan, there had arisen a mental barrier which it seemed impossible to surmount.  It had
become difficult to keep up a conversation apart from school topics, and both girls found themselves
dreading the evening's tete-a-tete.

Claire felt like a caged bird beating against the bars.  She wanted an outlet from the school
life, and the call of the spring was insistent to one who until now had spent the summer in
wandering about some of the loveliest scenes in Europe.  She wearied of the everlasting streets,
and discovered that by hurrying home after afternoon school, making a quick change of clothing,
and catching a motor-'bus at the corner of the road, she could reach Hyde Park by half-past
five, and spend a happy hour sitting on one of the green chairs, enjoying the beauty of the
flowers, and watching the never-ending stream of pedestrians and vehicles. Sometimes she recognised
Mrs Willoughby and Janet bowling past in their luxurious motor, but they never saw her, and
she was not anxious that they should.  What she wanted was to sit still and rest.  Sometimes
a smartly-dressed woman, obviously American, would seat herself on the next chair, and inquire
as to the best chance of seeing the Queen, and the question being amiably answered, would proceed
to unasked confidences.  She thought England "sweet."  She had just come over to this side.
She was staying till the fall.  Who was the lady in the elegant blue auto?  The London fashions
were just too cute!  When they parted, the fair American invariably said, "Pleased to have
met you!" and looked as though she meant it into the bargain, and Claire whole- heartedly echoed
the sentiment.  She liked these women with their keen, child-like enthusiasm, their friendly,
gracious ways.  In contrast to them the ordinary Englishwoman seemed cold and aloof.

One brilliant afternoon when the Park was unusually bright and gay, Claire was seated near
the Achilles statue, carelessly scanning the passers-by, when, with a sudden leap of the heart,
she saw Erskine Fanshawe some twenty yards ahead, strolling towards her, accompanied by two
ladies.  He was talking to his companions with every appearance of enjoyment, and had no attention
to spare for the rows of spectators on the massed green chairs.  Claire felt the blood rush
to her face in the shock of surprise and agitation.  She had never contemplated the possibility
of such a meeting, for Captain Fanshawe had not appeared the type of man who would care to
take part in a fashionable parade, and the sudden appearance of the familiar face among the
crowd made her heart leap with a force that was physically painful.  Then, the excitement over,
she realised with a second pang, almost as painful as the first, that in another minute he
would have passed by, unseeing, unknowing, to disappear into space for probably months to come.
At the thought rebellion arose in her heart.  She felt a wild impulse to leave her seat and
advance towards him; she longed with a sudden desperation of longing to meet his eyes, to see
his smile, but pride held her back.  She sat motionless watching with strained eyes.

One of Captain Fanshawe's companions was old, the other young--a pretty, fashionably-dressed
girl, who appeared abundantly content with her escort.  All three were watching with amusement
the movements of a stout elderly dame, who sauntered immediately ahead, leading by a leash
a French poodle, fantastically shaved, and decorated with ribbon bows. The stout dame was evidently
extravagantly devoted to her pet, and viewed with alarm the approach of a jaunty black and
white terrier.

The terrier cocked his ears, and elevating his stump of a tail, yapped at the be-ribboned spaniel
with all a terrier's contempt, as he advanced to the attack.  The stout dame screamed, dropped
the leash, and hit at the terrier with the handle of her parasol.  The poodle evidently considering
flight the best policy, doubled and fled in the direction of the green chairs, to come violently
to anchor against Claire's knee. The crowd stared, the stout dame hurried forward.  Claire,
placing a soothing hand on the dog's head, lifted a flushed, smiling face, and in so doing
caught the lift of a hat, met for the moment the glance of startled eyes.

The stout lady was not at all grateful.  She spoke as sharply as though Claire, and Claire
alone, had been the cause of her pet's upset.  She strode majestically away, leaving Claire
trembling, confused, living over again those short moments.  She had seen him; he had seen
her!  He was alive and well, living within a few miles of herself, yet as far apart as in another
continent.  It was six months since they had last met.  It might be six years before they met
again.  But he had seemed pleased to see her.  Short as had been that passing glance, there
was no mistaking its interest.  He was surprised, but pleasure had overridden surprise.  If
he had been alone, he would have hurried forward with outstretched hand.  In imagination she
could see him coming, his grave face lightened with joy.  Oh, if only, only he had been alone!
But he was with friends; he had the air of being content and interested, and the girl was pretty,
far prettier than Janet Willoughby.

"Good afternoon!"

She turned gasping; he was standing before her, holding out his hand. He had left his companions
and come back to join her.  His face looked flushed, as though he had rushed back at express
speed.  He had seemed interested and content, and the girl was pretty, yet he had come back
to her!  He seated himself on the chair by her side, and looked at her with eager eyes.

"I haven't seen you for six months!"

"I was just--" Claire began impulsively, drew herself up, and finished demurely--"I suppose it is."

"You haven't been at either of Mrs Willoughby's `At Homes.'"

"No; but I've seen a good deal of them all the same.  They have been so kind."

"Don't you care for the `At Homes'?  I asked Mrs Willoughby about you, and she seemed to imply
that you preferred not to go."

"Oh, no!  Oh, no!  That was quite wrong.  I did enjoy that evening. It was a--a misunderstanding,
I think," said Claire, much exercised to find an explanation of what could really not be explained.
Of the third "At Home" she had heard nothing until this moment, and a pang of retrospective
disappointment mingled with her present content.  "I have been to the house several times when
they were alone," she continued eagerly.  "They even asked me on Christmas Day."

"I know," he said shortly.  "I was in Saint Moritz, skating in the sunshine, when I heard how
you were spending your Christmas holidays." His face looked suddenly grim and set.  "A man
feels pretty helpless at a time like that.  I didn't exactly enjoy myself for the rest of that
afternoon."

"That was stupid of you, but--but very nice all the same," Claire said softly.  "It wouldn't
have made things easier for me if other people had been dull, and, after all, I came off better
than I expected."

"You were all alone--in your Grand Hotel?"

"Only for a week."  Claire resolutely ignored the hit.  "Then my friend came back, and we made
some little excursions together, and enjoyed being lazy, and getting up late, and reading lots
of nice books.  I had made all sorts of good resolutions about the work I was going to get
through in the holidays, but I never did one thing."

"Do you often come to the Park?"

Claire felt a pang of regret.  Was it possible that even this simple pleasure was to be denied
her?  She knew too well that if she said "yes," Captain Fanshawe would look out for her again,
would come with the express intention of meeting her.  To say "yes" would be virtually to consent
to such meetings.  It was a temptation which took all her strength to reject, but rejected
it must be.  She would not stoop to the making of a rendez-vous.

"I have been several times, but I shan't be able to come any more.  We get busier towards the
end of the term.  Examinations--"

Captain Fanshawe straightened himself, and said in a very stiff voice--

"I also, unfortunately, am extremely busy, so I shall not be able to see the rhododendrons
in their full beauty.  I had hoped you might be more fortunate."

Claire stared at a passing motor, of which she saw nothing but a moving mass; when she turned
back it was to find her companion's eyes fixed on her face, with an expression half guilty,
half appealing, altogether ingratiating.  At the sight her lips twitched, and suddenly they
were laughing together with a delicious consciousness of understanding.

"Well!" he cried, "it's true!  I mean it!  There's no need to stay away because of me; but
as I am here to-day, and it's my last chance, won't you let me give you tea?  If we walk along
to Victoria Gate--"

Claire thought with a spasm of longing of the little tables under the awning; of the pretty
animated scene; but no, it might not be.  Her acquaintance with this man was too casual to
allow her to accept his hospitality in a public place.

"Thank you very much, but I think not.  I would rather stay here."

"Well, at any rate," he said defiantly, "I've paid for my chair, and you can't turn me out.
Of course, you can move yourself."

"But I don't want to move.  I like being here.  I'm very glad to see you.  I should like very
much to have tea, too.  Oh, if you don't understand I can't explain!" cried poor Claire helplessly;
and instantly the man's expression altered to one of sympathy and contrition.

"I do understand!  Don't mind what I say.  Naturally it's annoying, but you're right, I suppose--you're
perfectly right.  I am glad, at any rate, that you allow me to talk to you for a few minutes.
You are looking very well!"  His eyes took her in in one rapid comprehensive sweep, and Claire
thanked Providence that she had put on her prettiest dress.  "I am glad that you are keeping
fit.  Did you enjoy your holiday in Belgium?"

"How did you know I was in Belgium?"

He laughed easily, but ignored the question.

"You have good news of your mother, I hope?"

"Very good.  She loves the life, and is very happy and interested, and my stepfather writes
that his friends refuse to believe in the existence of a grown-up daughter.  He is so proud
of her youthful looks."

"How much did you tell her about your Christmas holidays?"

"All the nice bits!  I don't approve of burdening other people!"

"Evidently not.  Then there have been burdens?  You've implied that! Nothing by any chance,
in which a man--fairly intelligent, and, in this instance, keen after work--could possibly
be of some use?"

The two pairs of eyes met, gazed, held one another steadily for a long eloquent moment.

"Yes," said Claire.

Captain Fanshawe bent forward quickly, holding his stick between his knees.  The side of his
neck had flushed a dull red colour.  For several moments he did not speak.  Claire had a curious
feeling that he could not trust his voice.

"Good!" he said shortly at last.  "Now may I hear?"

"I should like very much to ask you some questions about--about a man whom I think you may know."

The grey eyes came back to her face, keen and surprised.

"Yes!  Who is he?"

"A Major Carew.  His Christian name is Frank.  He belongs to your Club."

"I know the fellow.  Yes!  What do you want to know about him?"

"Everything, I think; everything you can tell me!"

"You know him personally, then?  You've met him somewhere?"

"Yes," Claire answered to the last question, "and I'm anxious--I'm interested to know more.
Do you know his people, or anything about him?"

"I don't know them personally.  I know Carew very slightly.  Good family, I believe.  Fine
old place in Surrey."

The Elizabethan manor house was true, then!  Claire felt relieved, but not yet satisfied. 
Her suspicion was so deep-rooted that it was not easily dispelled.  She sat silent for a moment,
considering her next question.

"Is he the eldest son?"

"I believe he is.  I've always understood so."

The eldest son of a good family possessing a fine old place!  Claire summoned before her the
picture of the coarse florid-faced man who had tried to flirt with her in the presence of the
woman to whom he was engaged; a man who stooped to borrow money from a girl who worked for
her own living.  What excuse could there be for such a man?  She drew her brows together in
puzzled fashion, and said slowly--

"Then surely, if he is the heir, he ought to be rich!"

"It doesn't necessarily follow.  I should say Carew was not at all flush.  Landed property
is an expensive luxury in these days.  I've heard, too, that the father is a bit of a miser.
He may not be generous in the matter of allowance!"

Claire sat staring ahead, buried in thought, and Captain Fanshawe stared at her in his turn,
and wondered once more why this particular girl was different from every other girl, and why
in her presence he felt a fullness of happiness and content.  She was very pretty; but pretty
girls were no novelty in his life; he knew them by the score.  It was not her beauty which
attracted him, but a mysterious affinity which made her seem nearer to him than he had hitherto
believed it possible for any human creature to be.  He had recognised this mysterious quality
at their first meeting; he had felt it more strongly at Mrs Willoughby's "At Home"; six months'
absence had not diminished his interest.  Just now, when he had caught sight of her flushed
upturned face, his heart had leapt with a violence which startled him out of his ordinary calm.
Something had happened to him.  When he had time he must think the thing out and discover its
meaning.  But how did she come to be so uncommonly interested in Carew?  He met Claire's eyes,
and she asked falteringly--

"I wish you would tell me what you think of him personally!  Do you think he is--nice?"

"Tell me first what you think yourself."

"Honestly?  You won't mind?"

"Not one single little bit!  I told you he is a mere acquaintance."

"Then," said Claire deliberately, "I think he is the most horrible, detestable, insufferable,
altogether despicable creature I have ever met in the whole of my life!"

"What!  What!  I say, you are down on him!"  Captain Fanshawe stared, beamed with an obvious
relief, then hastened to defend an absent man. "You're wrong, you know; really you're wrong!
I don't call Carew the most attractive fellow you can meet; rather rough manners, don't you
know, but he's all right--Carew's all right.  You mustn't judge by appearances, Miss Gifford.
Some of the most decent fellows in the Club are in his set.  Upon my word, I think he is quite
a good sort." Captain Fanshawe waxed the more eloquent as Claire preserved her expression of
incredulous dislike.  He looked at her curiously, and said, "I suppose I mustn't ask--I suppose
you couldn't tell me exactly why you are so interested in Carew?"

"I'm afraid not.  No; I'm afraid I can't," Claire said regretfully. Then suddenly there flashed
through her mind a remembrance of the many tangles and misunderstandings which take place in
books for want of a little sensible out-speaking.  She looked into Captain Fanshawe's face
with her pretty dark-lashed eyes and said honestly, "I wanted to know about him for the sake
of--another person?  Nothing to do with myself! I have only met him twice.  I hope I shall
never meet him again!"

"Thank you," said the man simply, and at the time neither of the two realised the full significance
of those quiet words.  It was only on living over the interview on her return home that Claire
remembered and understood!

For the next quarter of an hour they abandoned the personal note, and discussed the various
topics of the hour.  They did not always agree, and neither was of the type to be easily swayed
from a preconceived opinion, but always they were interested, always they felt a sympathy for
the other view, never once was there a fraction of a pause.  They had so much to say that they
could have talked for hours.

Gradually the Park began to empty, the string of motors grew less, the crowd on the footpath
no longer lounged, but walked quickly with a definite purpose; the green chairs stood in rows
without a single occupant.  Claire looked round, realised her isolation, drew an involuntary
sigh, and rose in her turn.

"It's getting late.  I must be hurrying home.  I go to the Marble Arch and take a motor-'bus.
Please don't let me take you out of your way!"

He looked at her straightly but did not reply, and they paced together down the broad roadway,
past the sunken beds of rhododendrons with the fountain playing in the centre, towards the
archway which seemed to both so unnecessarily near!  Claire thought of the six months which
lay behind, saw before her a vision of months ahead unenlightened by another meeting, and felt
suddenly tired and chill.  Captain Fanshawe frowned and bit at his lower lip.

"I am going away to-morrow.  We shall be in camp.  In August I am taking part of my leave to
run up to Scotland, but I can always come to town if I'm needed, or if there's a special inducement.
I came up for both the Willoughbys' `At Homes.'"

"Did you?"  Claire said feebly, and fell a-thinking.  The inference was too plain to be misunderstood.
The "special inducement" in this instance had been the hope of meeting herself.  Actually it
would appear that he had travelled some distance to ensure this chance, but the chance had
been deliberately denied.  Kind Mrs Willoughby would have welcomed her with open arms; it was
Janet who had laid the ban.  Janet was friendly, almost affectionate.  As spring progressed
she had repeatedly called at Saint Cuthbert's after afternoon school and carried Claire off
for refreshing country drives.  Quite evidently she enjoyed Claire's society, quite evidently
also she preferred to enjoy it when other visitors were not present.  Claire was not offended,
for she knew that there was no taint of snobbishness in this decision; she was just sorry,
and, in a curious fashion, remorseful into the bargain.  She did not argue out the point, but
instinctively she felt that Janet, not herself, was the one to be pitied!

They reached the end of the footpath: in another minute they would be in the noise and bustle
of Oxford Street.  Erskine Fanshawe came to an abrupt halt, faced Claire and cried impulsively--

"Miss Gifford!"

"Yes?"

Claire shrank instinctively.  She knew that she was about to be asked a question which it would
be difficult to answer.

Erskine planted his stick on the ground, and stared straight into her eyes.

"Why are you so determined to give me no chance of meeting you again?"

"I--I'm not determined!  I hope we shall meet.  Perhaps next winter--at Mrs Willoughby's."

He laughed grimly.

"But if I were not content to wait for `perhaps next winter--at Mrs Willoughby's.' ...  What then?"

Claire looked at him gravely.

"What would you suggest?  I have no home in London, and no relations, and your mother, Captain
Fanshawe, would not introduce me to you when she had the chance!"

He made a gesture of impatience.

"Oh, my mother is the most charming of women--and the most indiscreet. She acts always on the
impulse of the moment.  She introduced you to Mrs Willoughby, or asked Mrs Willoughby to introduce
herself, which comes to the same thing.  Surely that proves that she--she--"

He broke off, finding a difficulty in expressing what he wanted to say; but Claire understood,
and emphatically disagreed.  To enlist a friend's sympathy was a very different thing from
running the risk of entangling the affections of an only son!  Obviously, however, she could
not advance this argument, so they stood, the man and the girl, looking at one another, helpless,
irresolute, while the clock opposite ticked remorselessly on.  Then, with an abruptness which
lent added weight to his words, Erskine said boldly--

"I want to meet you again!  I am not content to wait upon chance."

Claire did not blush; on the contrary, the colour faded from her cheeks. Most certainly she
also was not content, but she did not waver in her resolution.

"I'm afraid there's nothing else for it.  It's one of the hardships of a working girl's life
that she can't entertain or make plans.  It seems more impossible to me, perhaps, from having
lived abroad where conventions are so strict.  English girls have had more freedom.  I don't
see what I can do.  I'm sorry!"--she held out her hand in farewell.  "I hope some day I shall
see you again!"

Quite suddenly Captain Fanshawe's mood seemed to change.  The set look left his face; he smiled--a
bright confident smile.

"There's not much fear about that!  I shall take very good care that we do!"

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN.

GOD'S OPPORTUNITY.

After the meeting with Captain Fanshawe in the Park, Claire's relationship with Mary Rhodes
sensibly improved.  In the first place, her own happiness made her softer and more lenient
in her judgment, for she was deeply, intensely happy, with a happiness which all her reasonings
were powerless to destroy.

"My dear, what nonsense!" she preached to herself in elderly remonstrating fashion.  "You met
the man, and he was pleased to see you--he seemed quite anxious to meet you again.  Perfectly
natural! Pray don't imagine any special meaning in that!  You looked quite an attractive little
girl in your pretty blue dress, and men like to talk to attractive little girls.  I dare say
he says just the same to dozens of girls!"  So spake the inner voice, but spoke in vain.  The
best things of life are beyond reasoning.  As in religion reason leads us, as it were, to the
very edge of the rock of proven fact, then faith takes wing, and soars above the things of
earth into the great silence where the soul communes with God, so in love there comes to the
heart a sweetness, a certainty, which no reasoning can shake.  As Erskine's eyes had looked
into hers in those moments of farewell, Claire had realised that between this man and herself
there existed a bond which was stronger than spoken word.

So far as she could foresee, they were hopelessly divided by the circumstances of life, but
in the first dawn of love no lover troubles himself about what the future may bring; the sweetness
of the present is all-sufficient.  Claire was happy, and longed for every one else to be as
happy as herself.  Moreover, her suspicions concerning Major Carew had been lulled to rest
by Erskine's favourable pronouncement. Personally she did not like him, but this was, after
all, a matter of taste; she could not approve his actions, but conceivably there might be explanations
of which she was unaware.  Her manner to Cecil regained its old spontaneous friendliness, and
Cecil responded with almost pathetic readiness.  In her ungracious way she had grown fond of
her pretty, kindly companion, and had missed the atmosphere of home which her presence had
given to the saffron parlour.  As they sat over their simple supper, she would study Claire's
face with a questioning glance, and one night the question found vent in words.

"You look mightily pleased with yourself, young woman!  Your eyes are sparkling as if you were
having a firework exhibition on your own account.  I never saw a school-mistress look so perky
at the end of the summer term!  Look as if you'd come into a fortune!"

"Wish I had!" sighed Claire, thankful to switch the conversation on to a safe topic.  "It would
come in most usefully at the moment.  What are you going to do for the summer hols, Cecil?
Is there any possibility of--"

"No," Cecil said shortly.  "And the regiment is going into camp, so he will be out of town.
I'm not bothering my head about holidays--quite enough to do with this wretched Matric.  The
Head is keen to make a good show this year, for the Dulwich School beat us last year, and,
as usual, all the responsibility and all the blame is put on the poor mistresses. You can't
make girls work if they don't want, you can't cram their brains when they've no brains to cram;
but those wretched examiners send a record of all the marks, so you can see exactly where they
fall short. Woe betide the mistress who is responsible for that branch!  I wouldn't mind prophesying
that if the German doesn't come out better than last year, Fraulein will be packed off.  I
wouldn't be too sure of myself. I've done all right so far, but the Head is not as devoted
to me as she might be.  I don't think she'd be sorry to have an excuse for getting rid of me.
That's one of the delightful aspects of our position--we are absolutely at the mercy of a woman
who, from sheer force of circumstances, becomes more of an autocrat every year.  The Committee
listen to her, and accept every word she says; the staff know better than to dispute a single
order.  We'd stand on our head in rows if she made it a rule!  The pupils scuttle like rabbits
when they see her coming, and cheer themselves hoarse every time she speaks.  No human woman
can live in that atmosphere for years and keep a cool head!"

"She's rather a dear, though, all the same!"  Claire said loyally.  She had been hurt by the
lack of personal interest which Miss Farnborough showed in the different members of her staff,
but she was unwilling to brand her as a heartless tyrant.  "Anyway," she added hastily, "you
are not satisfied here.  If you were going on teaching I should have thought you'd be glad
of a change.  It would be easy to get another school."

Mary Rhodes looked at her; a long eloquent glance.

"With a good testimonial--yes!  Without a good testimonial--no!  A testimonial for twelve years'
work depends on one woman, remember--on her prejudice or good nature, on the mood in which
she happens to be on one particular day.  It might read quite differently because she happened
to have a chill on her liver."

"My dear! there is a sense of justice!  There is such a thing as honesty."

"My dear, I agree.  Even so, would you dare to say that the wording of a testimonial would
be unaffected by the writer's mood?"

"Surely twelve years in one school--"

"No, it wouldn't!  Not necessarily.  `Miss Rhodes has been English Mistress at Saint Cuthbert's
for twelve years.  Of late has been erratic in temper.  Health uncertain.  Examination records
less satisfactory.' Well!  If you represented another school, would you engage Miss Rhodes?"

Claire was silent.  For the first time she realised the danger of this single-handed power.
It meant--what might it not mean?  It might mean that the mistress who was unfortunate enough
to incur the dislike of her chief, might never be able to procure another post!  She might
be efficient, she might be hard-working; given congenial surroundings she might develop into
a treasure untold, yet just because of a depreciating phrase in the wording of a testimonial,
no chance would be vouchsafed. No doubt the vast majority of head mistresses were women of
judgment, possessing a keen sense of justice and responsibility, yet the fact remained that
a hasty impulse, a little access of temper in penning those all-important lines, might mean
the end of a career, might mean poverty, might mean ruin!

Claire shivered, looked across the table at the thin, fretted face and made a hesitating appeal--

"Cecil dear, I know you are a good teacher.  I just love to hear you talking over your lessons,
but you are irritable!  One of my girls was crying the other day.  You had given so much homework,
and she didn't understand what was to be done, and said she daren't ask.  You had been `so
cross!'  I made a guess at what you wanted, and by good chance I was right; but if I'd been
wrong, the poor thing would have been in disgrace, and honestly it wasn't her fault!  She was
willing enough."

"Oh, that imbecile Gladys Brown!  I know what you mean.  I'd explained it a hundred times.
If she'd the brains of a cow she'd have understood. No wonder I was cross.  I should have been
a saint if I wasn't, and no one can be a saint in the summer term.  Did--did any one else see
her cry?"

"I think not.  No, I managed to comfort her; but if Miss Farnborough had happened to come in
just at that moment--"

Cecil shrugged and turned the subject, but she took the hint, to the benefit of her pupils
during the next few weeks.

July came in, and with it a spell of unbearable heat.  In country places and by the seashore
there was space and air, and clean fragrant surroundings; but over London hung a misty pall,
and not a branch of the dusty trees quivered to the movement of a passing breeze.  It was a
thunderous, unnatural heat which sapped every scrap of vitality, and made every movement a dread.

Claire was horrified at the effect of this heat wave on Sophie Blake. In superficial fashion
she had always believed that rheumatism must be better in hot weather; but, according to the
specialist, such heat as this was more trying than damp or cold, and Sophie's stiffness increased
with alarming suddenness.

There came a day when by no effort of will could she get through her classes, when sheer necessity
drove her to do the thing she had dreaded most of all--inform the Head that she could not go
on with her work.

Miss Farnborough was seated in her private room, and listened with grave attention to what
the Games mistress had to say.  Her forehead puckered in surprise as she noted Sophie's halting
gait, and the while she listened, her keen brain was diving back into the past, collecting
impressions.  She had seen less than usual of Miss Blake during the term; once or twice she
had received the impression that Miss Blake avoided her approach; Miss Blake had been looking
pale.  She waited until Sophie had finished speaking, her hands folded on her knee, her penetrating
eye fixed on the girl's face.  Then she spoke--

"I am sorry to hear this, Miss Blake.  Your work has been excellent hitherto, but rheumatism
is a serious handicap.  You say that this heat is responsible for the present attack?  Am I
to understand that it is a first attack--that you have had no threatening before?"

"I have been rheumatic all winter, more or less.  Before the Easter holidays it was pretty
bad.  I began to feel stiff."

Miss Farnborough repeated the word gravely.

"Stiff!  That was bad; that was very bad!  How could you take your classes if you were feeling
stiff?"

"I managed somehow!"  Sophie said.

For a moment she had imagined that the Head Mistress's concern had been on her account; she
believed it no longer when she saw the flash of indignation which lighted the grey eyes.

"Managed--somehow?  And you went on in that fashion--you were content to go on!"

"No.  I was not content.  I was very far from content.  I suffered horrible pain.  I went to
a specialist and paid him two guineas for his advice.  Since then I have paid twenty pounds
for treatment."

On Miss Farnborough's face the disapproval grew more and more pronounced.

"Miss Blake, I am afraid you have not been quite straightforward in this matter.  It appears
that you have been ill for months, with an illness which must necessarily have interfered with
your work, and this is the first time I hear about it.  I am Head Mistress of this school;
if anything is wrong with a member of the staff, it is her first duty to come to me.  You tell
me now that you have been ill for three months, since before the last holidays, and acknowledge
that you can go on no longer."

"In ten days we break up.  I ask you to allow me ten extra days.  The weather is so hot that
the girls would be thankful to escape the exercises.  By the end of the holidays I hope to
be quite better."

"The Easter holidays do not seem to have done you much good," Miss Farnborough said cruelly.
Then, seeing the girl flush, she added, "Of course you shall have your ten days.  I can see
that you are unfit for work, and we must manage without you till the end of the term.  I am
very sorry for you, Miss Blake; very sorry, indeed.  It is very trying and upsetting and--and
expensive into the bargain.  Twenty pounds, did you say?  That is surely a great deal!  Have
you tried the shilling bottles of gout and rheumatic pills?  I have been told they are quite
excellent.  But I must repeat that you have been wrong in not coming to me sooner.  As a pure
matter of honesty, do you think that you were justified in continuing to take classes for which
you were unfit?"

The tears started to Sophie's eyes; she lowered her lids to hide them from sight.

"The girls did not suffer," she said deeply.  "I did the suffering!"

Miss Farnborough moved impatiently.  She was intensely practical and matter-of-fact, and with
all her heart hated any approach to sentiment.

"You suffered because you were unfit," she repeated coldly, "and your obvious duty was to come
to me.  You must have known that under the circumstances I should not have wished you to continue
the classes!"

Sophie was silent for a moment, then she said very quietly, very deliberately--

"Yes, I did know; but I also knew that if I could nerve myself to bear the pain and the fatigue,
I could train the girls as well as ever, and I knew, too, that if you sent me away in the middle
of term you would be less likely to take me back.  It means everything to me, you see.  What
would happen to me if I were permanently invalided--without a pension-- at thirty-one?"

"You have been paid a good salary, Miss Blake--an exceptionally good salary--because it is
realised that your work is especially wearing. You ought to have saved--"

"If I had had no home claims I might have been able to save one or two hundred pounds--not
a very big life provision!  As it happens, however, I have given thirty pounds a year towards
the education of a young sister, and it has been impossible to save at all."

"But now, of course, your sister will help you," Miss Farnborough said, and turned briskly
to another topic.  "You said that you have been to a specialist?  Will you give me his address?
I should like to communicate with him direct.  You understand, Miss Blake, that if this stiffness
continues, it will be impossible for you to continue your duties here?"

"Quite impossible," faltered Sophie, in low tones.

Miss Farnborough pushed back her chair, and rose to her feet.

"But one hopes, of course, that all may go well.  I have never had any complaint to make with
respect to your work.  You have been very successful, very popular with the girls.  I should
be sorry to lose you. Be sure to let me know how you go on.  Perhaps I had better be guided
by Dr Blank.  I should try the pills, I think; they are worth trying. And avoid the sea; sea
air is bad for rheumatism.  Try some high inland place.  We had better say good-bye, now, I
suppose, as you will not come back after to-night.  Good-bye, my dear.  Let me hear soon. 
All good wishes for your recovery."

Sophie left the room, and made her way upstairs to the Staff-Room.  She moved very slowly,
partly because every movement was an effort, partly because the familiar objects on which her
eyes rested became suddenly instinct with new interest.  For ten long working years she had
passed them daily with indifference, but this afternoon it was borne in upon her that she would
never see them again, and the conviction brought with it a bitter pang.  After all, they had
been happy years, spent in a bustle of youthful life and energy, in an atmosphere of affection,
too, for the girls were warm-hearted, and the "Gym. mistress" had been universally popular.
Even as the thought passed through Sophie's mind, one of her special adorers appeared suddenly
at the far end of the corridor and hurried forward to meet her.

"Miss Blake!  Darling!  You look so white.  Are you faint?  Take my arm; lean on me.  Were
you going to lie down?"

"I'm going to the Staff-Room.  I can manage myself; but, Gladys, find Miss Gifford, and ask
her to come to me as soon as she is free.  Tell her I'm not well.  You're a dear girl, Gladys.
Thank you for being so kind to me all these years."

Gladys rolled adoring blue eyes, and sped on her mission.  The next morning she realised that
those thanks had been darling Miss Blake's farewell, and shed bitter tears; but for the moment
she was filled with complaisance.

Claire appeared in due time, heard what had happened, and helped Sophie to collect her various
small belongings.  The other teachers had already dispersed, so the ordeal of leave-taking
was avoided.

"You can explain when you meet them next term!" said Claire.

"I can write my good-byes," corrected Sophie.  She blinked away a few tears and said piteously,
"Not much chance for me if she consults Dr Blank!  He's as much discouraged as I am myself.
What do you suppose he will advise now?  I suppose I'll have to see him to-morrow."

"And lie awake all to-night, wondering what he will say!  We'll do better than that--we'll
call this very afternoon.  If he is in, I'm sure he will see us, and a day saved is a day gained.
I'll get a taxi."

"Another taxi!  I'm ruining you, Claire.  How I do hate sponging on other people!"

"Wouldn't you do it for me, if things were reversed?"

"Of course I should, but it's so much more agreeable to help than to be helped.  It's ignoble,
I suppose, but I do hate to feel grateful!"

"Well!  No one could by any possibility call you gracious, my dear. Is that any consolation?"
cried Claire mischievously, and Sophie was surprised into the travesty of a smile.

Dr Blank was at home, and listened to what Sophie had to tell him with grave attention.  He
expressed satisfaction to hear that her holidays had begun, but when questioned as to his probable
report to Miss Farnborough, had no consolation to offer.

"I am afraid I must tell you honestly that you are not fit for the work. Of course, it is quite
possible that there may be a great improvement by September, but, even so, you would be retarding
your recovery by going on with such exhausting work.  You must try to find something lighter."

Sophie laughed, and her laugh was not good to hear.

Claire said firmly--

"She shall find it!  I will find it for her.  There's no need to worry about September.  What
we want to know is what she is to do now?--to- morrow--for the rest of the holidays?"

"I can't afford any more injections!  They've done me no good, and they cost too much.  I can't
afford any more treatments.  I can only take medicines.  If you will give me some medicines--"

Dr Blank sat silent; tapping his desk with noiseless fingers; staring thoughtfully across the
room.  It was evident that he had a proposition to make; evident also that he doubted its reception.

"The best thing under the circumstances--the wisest thing," he said slowly at last, "would
be for you to go into hospital as an ordinary patient.  I could get you a bed in one of my
own wards, where I could look after you myself, in consultation with the first men in town.
You could have massage, electricity, radium, heat baths, every appliance that could possibly
be of use, and you could stay on long enough to give them a chance.  It would be an ordinary
ward, remember, an ordinary bed in an ordinary ward, and your neighbours would not be up to
Newnham standard!  You would be awakened at five in the morning, and settled for the night
at eight.  You would have to obey rules, which would seem to you unnecessary and tiresome.
You would be, I am afraid, profoundly bored.  On the other hand, you would have every attention
that skill and science can devise.  You would not have to pay a penny, and you would have a
better chance than a duchess in a ducal palace.  Think it over, and let me know!  If you decide
to go, I'll manage the rest.  Take a day--a couple of days."

"I won't take two minutes, thank you!  I'll decide now.  I'll go, of course, and thank you
very much!"

Dr Blank beamed with satisfaction.

"Sensible girl!  Sensible girl!  That's right!  That's right!  That's very good!  You are doing
the right thing, and we'll all do our best for you, and your friend here will come to see you
and help to make the time pass.  Interesting study, you know; valuable opportunity of studying
character if you look at it in that light!  Why not turn it into literary capital?  `Sketches
from a Hospital Bed,' `My Neighbours in B Ward,' might make an uncommonly good series.  Who
knows?  We may have you turning out quite a literary star!"

Sophie smiled faintly, being one of the people who would rather walk five miles than write
the shortest letter.  Many unexpected things happen in this world, but it was certain that
her own rise to literary eminence would never swell the number!  But she knew that Dr Blank
was trying to cheer her, so she kept that certainty to herself.

The two girls made their way back to Sophie's lodgings, and discussed the situation over the
ever-comforting tea.

"I shall have to give my landlady notice," Sophie said, looking wistfully round the little
room which had been so truly a home.  "If I'm to be in hospital for many weeks, it's folly
to go on paying the rent; and in any case I can't afford so much now.  One can't have doctor's
bills, and other luxuries as well.  What shall I have to take into hospital?  Will they allow
me to wear my own things?  I don't think I could get better in a calico night-dress!  Pretty
frills and a blue ribbon bow are as good as a tonic, but will the authorities permit? Have
you ever seen ribbon bows in a hospital bed?"

"I haven't had much experience, but I should think they would be encouraged, as a ward decoration!
I hope so, I'm sure, for I mean to present you with a duck of a dressing-jacket!"

"Oh, nothing more, Claire; don't give me anything more.  I shall never be able to pay you back,"
cried Sophie; then, in a voice of poignant suffering, she cried sharply, "Oh, Claire, my little
sister!  What is to become of my little sister?  If I am not able to help, if I need to be
helped myself, her education will be interrupted, for it will be impossible to go on paying.
Oh, it's too hard--too dreadful! Everything seems so hopeless and black!"

"Yes, it does.  The way seems blocked.  One can't see a step ahead. Man's extremity, Sophie!"
cried Claire deeply--"Man's extremity;" and at that a gleam of light came into Sophie's eyes.

"Yes, yes!  That's just what it is.  Thanks for reminding me.  God's opportunity!"  Sophie
leant back in her chair, staring dreamily into space, till presently something of the old bright
look came back to her face.  "And that," she said softly, "that's the kind of help it is sweet
to accept!"

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN.

AN INVITATION.

With Sophie in hospital, pathetically anxious for visits, with the rent of the Laburnum Road
lodgings to pay whether one lived in them or not, Claire nerved herself to spend August in
town, with the prospect of a September holiday to cheer her spirits.  Through one of the other
mistresses she had heard of an ideal farmhouse near the sea where the kindly housewife "mothered"
her guests with affectionate care, where food was abundant, and cream appeared upon the table
at every meal-- thick, yellow, country cream in which a spoon would stand upright. There was
also a hammock swung between two apple-trees in the orchard, a balcony outside the bedroom
window, and a shabby pony-cart, with a pony who could really go.  What could one wish for more?

Claire planned a lazy month, lying in that hammock, reading stories about other people, and
dreaming still more thrilling romances about herself; driving the pony along country lanes,
going out on to the balcony in the early morning to breathe the scent of honeysuckle, and sweetbriar,
and lemon thyme, and all the dear, old-world treasures to be found in the gardens of well-conducted
farmhouses.  She had a craving for flowers in these hot summer days; not the meagre sixpennyworth
which adorned the saffron parlour, but a wealth of blossom, bought without consideration of
cost.  And one day, with the unexpectedness of a fairy gift, her wish was fulfilled.

It lay on the table when she returned from school--a long cardboard box bearing the name of
a celebrated West End florist, the word "fragile" marked on the lid, and inside were roses,
magnificent, half-opened roses with the dew still on their leaves, the fat green stalks nearly
a yard in length--dozens of roses of every colour and shade, from the lustrous whiteness of
Frau Carl to the purple blackness of Prince Camille. Claire gathered them in her arms, unconscious
of the charming picture which she made, in her simple blue lawn dress, with her glowing face
rising over the riot of colour, gathered them in a great handful, and ran swiftly upstairs.

There was no card inside the box, no message of any kind, but her heart knew no doubt as to
the sender, and she dare not face the fire of Mary Rhodes' cross-examination.  In the days
of daffodils she had treated herself to a high green column of a vase, which was an ideal receptacle
for the present treasures.  When it was filled there were still nearly half the number waiting
for a home, so these were plunged deep into the ewer until the morrow, when they would be taken
to Sophie in hospital. The little room was filled with beauty and fragrance, and Claire knew
moments of unclouded happiness as she looked around.

Presently she extracted two roses from the rest, ran downstairs to collect box, paper and string,
and handed rubbish and roses together to Lizzie at the top of the kitchen stairs.  Lizzie received
her share of the treasures with dignity, cut off the giant stems, which she considered straggly
and out of place, and crammed the two heads into a brown cream-jug, the which she deposited
on a sunny window-ledge. Claire saw them as she next left the house and shrugged resignedly,
for she was beginning to learn the lesson which many of us take a lifetime to master, the wisdom
of allowing people to enjoy themselves in their own fashion!

The Willoughbys were leaving town in mid July, en route for Switzerland, and later on for a
Scottish shooting-box.  Claire received an invitation to tea on their last Saturday afternoon,
and arrived to find the drawing-room full of visitors.

Malcolm Heward was assisting Janet at the tea-table, but with this exception she recognised
no one in the room, and was thankful for the attentions of Master Reginald, who hailed her
as an old acquaintance, and reproached her loudly for not turning up at "Lord's."

"I looked out for you, you know!" he said impressively, and Claire was the more gratified by
his remembrance because Malcolm Heward had required a second introduction to awaken his recollection.
It is no doubt gratifying to the object of his devotion when a man remains blind to every other
member of her sex, but the other members may feel a natural objection to be so ignored!  Claire
was annoyed by the necessity of that second introduction, and as a consequence made herself
so fascinating to the boy who had remembered, that he hugged the sweet delusion that she considered
him a man, and was seriously smitten by his charms.  He waited upon her with assiduity, gave
her exclusive tips as to her choice of cakes, and recited the latest funny stories which were
already stale in his own circles, but which came to her ears with agreeable freshness.

It was while the two were laughing together over an unexpected denouement that the departure
of two guests left a space across which Claire could see a far corner of the room, and perceived
that a lady seated on a sofa had raised a tortoiseshell-bound lorgnon, to stare across at herself.
She was an elderly lady, and at first sight her appearance awoke no recollection.  She was
just a grey-haired woman, attired in handsome black, in no way differentiated from one or two
other visitors of the same age: even when the lorgnon dropped to her side, disclosing a pair
of very bright, very quizzical grey eyes, it was a full moment before Claire realised that
this was her acquaintance of that first eventful journey to London, none other than Mrs Fanshawe
herself.  There she sat, smiling, complacent, grande dame as ever, nodding with an air of mingled
friendliness and patronage, laying one hand on the vacant place by her side, with an action
which was obviously significant.  Claire chose, however, to ignore the invitation, and after
a grave bow of acknowledgment, turned back to Reginald, keeping her eyes resolutely averted
from that far corner.  It was Mrs Fanshawe herself who was finally compelled to cross the room
to make her greetings.

"Miss Gifford!  Surely it is Miss Gifford?  Mrs Willoughby told me she expected you this afternoon.
And how are you, my dear, after this long time?"

The tone was all that was cordial and friendly.

Claire stood up, tall and stately, and extended a perfectly gloved hand. It was not in human
nature to be perfectly natural at that moment. Sub-consciously she was aware that, as the Americans
would express it, she was "putting on frills"; sub-consciously she was amused at the artificiality
of her own voice.

"Quite well, thank you.  Exceedingly flourishing!"

"You look it," Mrs Fanshawe said, and seated herself ruthlessly in Reginald's chair.  "Tell
me all about it!  You were going to work, weren't you?  Some new-fangled idea of being independent.
So ridiculous for a pretty girl!  And you've had--how long--nearly a year?  Haven't got tired
of it yet, by any chance?"

"Oh, yes; quite often I feel very tired, but I should have felt the same about pleasuring,
and work is more worth while.  It has been very interesting.  I have learnt a great deal."

"More than the pupils--hey?" chuckled Mrs Fanshawe shrewdly.  "Don't try to pretend that you
are a model school-mistress.  I know better!  I knew you were not the type when I saw you on
that journey, and after a year's trial you are less the type than ever."  She screwed up her
eyes and looked Claire over with deliberate criticism up and down, down and up.  "No, my dear!
Nature did not intend you to be shut up in a girls' school!"  Suddenly she swerved to another
topic.  "What a journey that was!  I nearly expired.  If it hadn't been for you, I should never
have survived.  I told my son you had saved my life.  That was my son who met me on the platform!"

Was it fancy that an expression of watchfulness had come into the gay eyes?  Claire imagined
that she recognised such an expression, but, being prepared for some such reference, had herself
well in command. Not a nicker of embarrassment passed over her face as she said quietly--

"Yes, I knew it was your son.  I met Captain Fanshawe here one evening last winter, so I have
been introduced."

Mrs Fanshawe waved her lorgnon, and murmured some vague words which might, or might not, have
been intended as an apology.

"Oh, yes.  So nice!  Naturally, that morning I was worn-out.  I did not know what I was doing.
I crawled into bed.  Erskine told me about meeting you, and of your pretty performance.  Quite
a professional siffleuse!  More amusing than school teaching, I should say.  And more profitable.
You ought to think of it as a profession.  Erskine was quite pleased.  He comes here a great
deal.  Of course--"

Mrs Fanshawe's smile deepened in meaning fashion, then suddenly she sighed.  "Very delightful
for them, of course; but I see nothing of him. We mothers of modern children have a lonely
time.  I used to wish for a daughter, but perhaps, if I'd had one, she would have developed
a fancy to fly off to India!"

That was a hit at Claire, but she received it in silence, being a little touched by the unaffected
note of wistfulness in the other's voice as she regretted her lonely estate.  It was hard to
be a widow, and to see so little of an only child, especially if that only child happened to
be so altogether charming and attractive!

Mrs Fanshawe glanced across at the tea-table where Janet and her cavalier were still busy ministering
to the needs of fresh arrivals.

"I asked Janet Willoughby to take pity on me for a few weeks this summer, but she's too full
up with her own plans.  Says so, at least; but I dare say it would have been different if--
Well, well!  I have been young myself, and I dare say I shouldn't have been too keen to accept
an invitation to stay in the country with only an old woman as companion.  Enjoy yourself while
you are young, my dear.  It gets more and more difficult with every year you live."

Claire made a protesting grimace.

"Does it?  That's discouraging.  I've always flattered myself that it would grow easier.  When
one is young, everything is vague and unsettled, and naturally one feels anxious about what
is to happen next. It is almost impossible to be philosophical about the unknown, but when
your life has shaped itself, it ought to be easy to settle down and make the best of it, and
cultivate an easy mind."

Mrs Fanshawe laughed.

"Well reasoned, my dear, well reasoned!  Most logical and sound.  And just as futile in practice
as logical things usually are!  You wouldn't believe me if I told you that it is the very uncertainty
which makes the charm of youth, or that being certain is the bane of old age, but it's the
truth, all the same, and when you are sixty you will have discovered it for yourself.  Well!
so my letter to Mrs Willoughby was of some use after all?  She did send you a card!"

Claire looked across the room to where Mrs Willoughby sat.  Hero- worship is an instinct in
hearts which are still fired with youth's enthusiasm, and this stout, middle-aged woman was
Claire's heroine par excellence.  She was kind, and to be kind is in good truth the fulfilment
of Christ's law.  Among Claire's favourite books was Professor Drummond's "The Greatest Thing
in the World," with its wonderful exposition of the thirteenth chapter of 1st Corinthians.
When she read its pages, her thoughts flew instinctively to this rich woman of society, who
was not puffed up, thought no evil, was not easily provoked, suffered long, and was kind.

The girl's eyes were eloquent with love and admiration as they rested on the plain, elderly
face, and the woman who was watching felt a stab of envy at the sight.  The old crave for the
love of the young, and cherish it, when found, as one of their dearest possessions, and despite
the natural gaiety of her disposition there were moments when Mrs Fanshawe felt the burden
of loneliness press heavily upon her.

"She has done much more than send me a card!"  Claire said deeply.  "She has been a friend.
She has taken away the terrible feeling of loneliness.  If I were in trouble, or needed any
help, I know that she would give it!"

"Oh, yes, yes, naturally she would.  So would any one, my dear, who had the chance.  But she's
a good creature, of course; a dear creature.  I'm devoted to her, and to Janet.  Janet and
I are the best of friends!"

Again the meaning look, the meaning tone, and again in Claire's heart the same sweet sense
of certainty mingled with a tender compassion for Janet, who was less fortunate than herself.
It was a help to look across at the tea-table, and to realise that consolation was waiting
for Janet if she chose to take it.

Suddenly Mrs Fanshawe switched off on to yet another topic.

"And where are you going to spend your summer holidays, my dear?"

"In September I am probably going to a farmhouse near the sea."

"And in August?"

"In town, I think.  I have an invalid friend--"

Mrs Fanshawe swept aside the suggestion with an imperious hand.

"Nonsense!  Utter nonsense!  Nobody stays in town in August, my good child.  The thing's impossible.
I've passed through once or twice, en route for country visits, and it's an unknown place.
The wierdest people walking up and down!  Where they come from I can't conceive; but you never
saw anything more impossible.  And the shops!  I knew a poor girl who became engaged at the
end of July, and had to get her trousseau at once, as they sailed in September.  She was in
despair.  Nothing to be had.  She was positively in tears."

"I shall get engaged in June," Claire said firmly, "and take advantage of the summer sales.
I call it most thoughtless of him to have waited till the end of July."

But Mrs Fanshawe was not attending; her eyes had brightened with a sudden thought; she was
saying to herself, "Why not?  I should be alone. There would be no danger of complications,
and the child would be a delightful companion, good to look at, plenty to say for herself,
and a mind of her own.  Quite useful in entertaining, too.  I could play off some of my duty
debts, and she could whistle to us after dinner.  Quite a novelty in the country.  It would
be quite a draw...  A capital idea! I'll say a week, and if it works she can stay on--"

"No, my dear, you cannot possibly endure town in August, at least not the entire month.  Run
down to me for a break.  Quite a short journey; an hour and a half from Waterloo, and the air
is delightfully fresh.  I shall be alone, so I can't offer you any excitement, but if you are
fond of motoring--"

The blood rushed into Claire's face.  She was so intensely, overpoweringly surprised, that,
for the moment, all other feelings were in abeyance.  The last thing in the world which she
had expected was that Erskine's mother should invite her to visit her home.

"I don't know if you care for gardening.  I'm mad about it myself.  My garden is a child to
me.  I stand no interference.  The gardeners are paid to obey me, and carry out my instructions.
If they get upsetting, off they go.  You'd like my garden.  It is not cut out to a regulation
pattern; it has a personality of its own.  I have all my meals on the verandah in summer. 
We could get you some tennis, too.  You wouldn't be buried alive.  Well?  What do you say?
Is it worth while?"

"It's exceedingly kind.  It's awfully good of you.  I--I am so completely taken by surprise
that I hardly know--I shall have to think."

"Nonsense, my dear; what is there to think about?  You have no other engagement, and you need
a change.  Incidentally also I want a companion.  You would be doing me a good turn as well
as yourself.  I'm sure your mother would wish it!"

No doubt about that!  Claire smiled to herself as she realised how Mrs Judge would rejoice
over the visit; turning one swallow into a summer, and in imagination beholding her daughter
plunged into a very vortex of gaiety.  She was still smiling, still considering, when Janet
came strolling across the room, and laid her hand affectionately on Mrs Fanshawe's shoulder.

"I haven't had a word with you all afternoon!  Such a rush of people. You had tea comfortably,
I hope: and you, too--Claire!"  There was just a suspicion of hesitation before the Christian name.

"I have just been asking Miss Gifford to take pity on my loneliness for part of August.  She
is not knee-deep in engagements, as you are, my dear, and that precious son of mine; so we
are going to amuse each other, and see how much entertainment we can squeeze out of the countryside!"

"But I haven't--I didn't--I'm not sure," stammered Claire, acutely conscious of the hardening
of Janet's face, but once again Mrs Fanshawe waved aside her objections.

"But I am sure!  It's all settled, my dear--all but the day.  Put your address on this silly
little tablet, and I'll write as soon as I've looked over my dates.  Now, Janet, I'm ready
for a chat.  Take me out to the balcony, away from this crowd."

"And I must go, I think.  I'll say good-bye."  Claire held out her hand to the daughter of
the house.  "I hope you may have a delightful summer."

"Oh, thanks so much.  Oh, yes, yes, I'm quite sure I will," Janet answered mechanically.  She
touched Claire's hand with her fingers, and turned hastily aside.

CHAPTER NINETEEN.

ERSKINE FANSHAWE'S HOME.

Claire dreaded Mary Rhodes' curiosity on the subject of her proposed visit, but in effect there
was none forthcoming.  Cecil was too much engrossed in her own affairs to feel anything but
a passing interest.

"Some one you met at the Willoughbys'?  Only the old lady?  Rather you than me!  Nice house
though, I suppose; gardens, motors, that kind of thing.  Dull, but luxurious.  Perhaps you'll
stay on permanently as her companion."

"That," Claire said emphatically, "will never happen!  I was thinking of clothes...  I am quite
well-off for evenings, and I can manage for afternoons, but I do think I ought to indulge in
one or two `drastic bargains' for morning wear.  I saw some particularly drastic specimens
in Knightsbridge this week.  Cecil ... could you--I hate asking, but could you pay me back?"

Cecil's stare of amazement was almost comical under the circumstances.

"My--good--girl!  I was really pondering whether I dare, I'm horribly hard up, and that's the
truth.  I've had calls..."

"Not Major Carew again?  I can't understand it, Cecil.  You know I inquired about him, you
told me to ask if I had a chance, and his father is rich.  He might fly into a rage if he were
asked for money, but he would give it in the end.  Major Carew might have a bad half-hour,
but what is that compared with borrowing from you!  And from a man's point of view it's so
little, such very small sums!"  She caught a change of expression on the other's face, and
leapt at its meaning.  "Cecil!  You have been giving more!  Your savings!"

"And if I have, Claire Gifford, what business is it of yours?  What was I saving for?  To provide
for my old age, wasn't it? and now that the need has gone, why shouldn't I lend it, if I chose?
Frank happens to be hard up for a few months, and besides, there's a reason! ...  We are getting
tired of waiting...  You must never, never breathe a word to a soul, but he wants me ... he
thinks it might be better..."

Claire stared with wide eyes, Cecil frowned, and finished the sentence in reckless tones--

"We shall probably get married this autumn, and tell his father afterwards."

"Oh, Cecil, no!  Don't do it!  It's madness.  It's folly.  He ought not to ask you.  It will
make things fifty times more difficult."

"It would make things sure!"  Mary Rhodes said.

The words were such an unconscious revelation of her inner attitude towards her lover, that
Claire was smitten with a very passion of pity. She stretched out her hand, and cried ardently.
"Cecil, I am thinking of your happiness: I long for you to be sure, but a private marriage
is an insult to a girl.  It puts her into a wrong position, and no man has the right to suggest
it.  Where is your pride?"

"Oh, my dear," interrupted Cecil wearily, "I'm past worrying about pride.  I'm thirty-three,
and look older, and feel sixty at the least. I'm tired out in body and soul.  I'm sick of this
empty life.  I want a home.  I want rest.  I want some one to care for me, and take an interest
in what I do.  Frank isn't perfect, I don't pretend that he is. I wish to goodness he would
own up, and face the racket once for all, but it's no use, he won't!  Between ourselves I believe
he thinks the old man won't live much longer, and there will be no need to worry him at all.
Any way there it is, he won't tell at present, however much I may beg, but he will marry me;
he wants to be married in September, and that proves that he does care!  He is looking out
for a flat, and picking up furniture.  We are picking up furniture," Cecil corrected herself
hastily.  "I go in and ask the prices, and he sends his servants the next week to do the bargaining.
And there will be my clothes, too...  I'll pay you back in time, Claire, with ten per cent,
interest into the bargain, and perhaps when I'm a rich woman the time may come when you will
be glad to borrow from me!"

The prospect was not cheering, but the intention was good, and as such had to be suitably acknowledged.
Claire adjourned upstairs to consult her cheque-book, and decided bravely that the drastic
bargains could not be afforded.  Then, being a very human, and feminine young woman she told
herself that there could be no harm in going to look at the dresses once more, just to convince
herself that they were not so very drastic after all, and lo! close inspection proved them
even more drastic than she had believed, and by the evening's delivery a choice specimen was
speeding by motor van to Laburnum Road.

On visiting days Claire went regularly to visit Sophie, who, by her own account, was being
treated to seventeen different cures at the same time, and was too busy being rubbed, and boiled,
and electrified, and dosed, and put to bed in the middle of the afternoon, and awakened in
the middle of the night, to have any time to feel bored.  She took a keen interest also in
her fellow patients, and was the confidante of many tragic stories which made her own lot seem
light in comparison. Altogether she was more cheerful and hopeful than for months back, but
the nurses looked dubious, and could not be induced to speak of her recovery with any certitude.

On the tenth of August, Claire packed her boxes with the aid of a very mountain of tissue paper,
and set forth on her journey.  The train deposited her at Hazlemere station, outside which
Mrs Fanshawe was waiting in a big cream car, smiling her gay, quizzical smile.  She was one
of the fortunate women who possess the happy knack of making a guest feel comfortable, and
at home, and her welcome sent Claire's spirits racing upwards.

Many times during the last fortnight had she debated the wisdom of visiting Erskine Fanshawe's
home, but the temptation was so strong that at every conflict prudence went to the wall.  It
was not in girl nature to resist the longing to see his home and renew her acquaintance with
his mother; and as it had been repeatedly stated that he himself was to spend most of August
in Scotland, she was absolved from any ulterior design.  Janet Willoughby had obviously looked
upon the visit with disfavour, but Claire was too level-headed to be willing to victimise herself
for such a prejudice.  Janet would have a fair field in Scotland.  She could not hold the whole
kingdom as a preserve!

"You are looking charming, my dear," Mrs Fanshawe said.  "I always say it is one of the tests
of a lady to know how to dress for a journey.  A little pale, perhaps, but we shall soon change
that.  This high air is better than any tonic.  I laze about during the heat of the day, and
have a two hours' spin after tea; I never appear until eleven, and I rest in my own room between
lunch and tea, so you won't have too much of my society, but I've a big box of new books from
Mudie's for you to read, and there's a pony-cart at your disposal, so I dare say you can amuse
yourself.  I love companionship, but I couldn't talk to the cleverest woman in Europe for twelve
hours at a stretch."

"Nor I!" agreed Claire, who to tell the truth was more elated at the prospect of so much time
to herself than she felt it discreet to betray. She was enchanted with her first view of the
beautiful Surrey landscape, and each turn of the road as they sped uphill seemed to open out
more lovely vistas.  They drove past spinneys of pine trees, past picturesque villages, consisting
of an old inn, a few scattered cottages, a pond and a green, along high roads below which the
great plain of thickly-treed country lay simmering in a misty haze.  Then presently the road
took a sudden air of cultivation, and Claire staring curiously discovered that the broad margin
of grass below the hedge on either side, was mown and rolled to a lawn-like smoothness, the
edges also being clipped in as accurate a line as within the most carefully tended garden.
For several hundred yards the margin stretched ahead, smooth as the softest velvet, a sight
so rare and refreshing to the eye that Claire could not restrain her delight.

"But how charming!  How unexpected!  I never saw a lane so swept and garnished.  It has a wonderful
effect, those two long lines of sward. It is sward! grass is too common a word.  But what an
amount of work! Twenty maids with twenty mops sweeping for half a year.--I think the whole
neighbourhood ought to be grateful to the owner of this land."

Mrs Fanshawe beamed, complacently.

"I'm glad you think so.  I am the owner!  This is my property, mine for my lifetime, and my
son's after me.  It's one of my hobbies to keep the lane mown.  I like to be tidy, outside
as well as in.  Erskine began by thinking it a ridiculous waste of work, but his friends are
so enthusiastic about the result, that he is now complacently convinced that it was entirely
his own idea.  That's a man, my dear!  Illogical, self-satisfied, the best of 'em, and you'll
never change them till the end of time...  What's your opinion of men?"

"I rather--like them!" replied Claire with a naivete which kept her listener chuckling with
amusement until the lodge gates were reached, and the car turned into the drive.

The house was less imposing than the grounds, just a large comfortable English country house,
handsome and dignified, but not venerable in any way.  The hall was good, running the entire
length of the house, and opening by tall double doors on to the grounds at the rear.  In summer
these doors were kept open, and allowed a visitor a charming vista of rose pergolas and the
blue-green foliage of an old cedar.  All the walls of the house from top to bottom were painted
a creamy white, and there was noticeable a prevailing touch of red in Turkey carpets, cushion-
covers, and rose-flecked chintzes.

Tea was served on a verandah, and after it was over Mrs Fanshawe escorted her visitor round
the flower gardens, and finally upstairs to her own bedroom, where she was left with the announcement
that dinner would be served at eight o'clock.  After dinner the ladies played patience, drank
two glasses of hot-water, and retired to bed at ten o'clock.  It was not exciting, but on the
other hand it was certainly not dull, for Mrs Fanshawe's personality was so keen, so youthful
in its appreciation, that it was impossible not to be infected, and share in her enjoyment.

The next week passed quickly and pleasantly.  The weather was good, allowing long drives over
the lovely country, a tennis party at home, and another at a neighbouring house introduced
a little variety into the programme, and best of all Mrs Fanshawe grew daily more friendly,
even affectionate in manner.  She was a woman of little depth of character, whose main object
in life was to amuse herself and avoid trouble, but she had humour and intelligence, and made
an agreeable companion for a summer holiday.  As her intimacy with her guest increased she
spoke continually of her son, referring to his marriage with Janet Willoughby with an air of
complacent certitude.

"Of course he will marry Janet.  They've been attached for years, but the young men of to-day
are so deliberate.  They are not in a hurry to give up their freedom.  Janet will be just the
right wife for Erskine, good tempered and yielding.  He is a dear person, but obstinate.  When
he once makes up his mind, nothing will move him.  It would never do for him to have a high-spirited
wife."

"I disapprove of pandering to men," snapped Claire in her most High School manner, whereupon
the conversation branched off to a discussion on Women's Rights, which was just what she had
intended and desired.

On the seventh afternoon of her visit, Claire was in her room writing a letter to Sophie when
she heard a sudden tumult below, and felt her heart bound at the sound of a familiar voice.
The pen dropped from her hand, and she sat transfixed, her cheeks burning with excitement.
It could not be!  It was preposterous, impossible.  He was in Scotland. Only that morning there
had been a letter.--It was impossible, impossible, and then again came the sound of that voice,
that laugh, and she was on her feet, running across the floor, opening the door, listening
with straining ears.

A voice rose clear and distinct from the hall beneath, the deep, strong voice about which there
could be no mistake.

"A perfect flood!  The last five days have been hopeless.  I was tired of being soaked to the
skin, and having to change my clothes every two hours, so I cut it, picked up Humphreys in
town, and came along home. And how have you been getting on, mater?  You look uncommonly fit!"

"I'm quite well.  I am perfectly well.  You need not have come home on my account," Mrs Fanshawe's
voice had a decided edge.  "I suppose this is just a flying visit.  You will be going on to
pay another visit.  I have a friend with me--a Miss Gifford.  You met her at the Willoughbys'."

"So I did!  Yes.  That's all right.  I'm glad you had company.  I suppose I shall be moving
on one of these days.  I say, mother, what about tea?"

Claire shut the door softly, and turned back into the room.  Erskine's voice had sounded absolutely
normal and unmoved: judging by it no one could have imagined that Miss Gifford's presence or
absence afforded him the slightest interest, and yet, and yet, the mysterious inner voice was
speaking again, declaring that it was not the wet weather which had driven him back ... that
he had hurried home because he knew, he knew--

In ten minutes' time tea would be served.  Claire did not change her dress or make any alteration
in her simple attire, her energies during those few minutes were chiefly devoted to cooling
her flushed cheeks, and when the gong sounded she ran downstairs, letters in hand, and evinced
a politely impersonal surprise at the sight of Captain Erskine and his friend.

Mrs Fanshawe's eyes followed the girl's movements with a keen scrutiny. It seemed to her that
Claire's indifference was a trifle overdone: Erskine also was unnaturally composed.  Under
ordinary circumstances such a meeting would have called forth a frank, natural pleasure.  She
set her lips, and determined to leave nothing to chance.

CHAPTER TWENTY.

THE FLOWERY WAY.

Only a few hours before her son's unexpected arrival, Mrs Fanshawe had warmly pressed Claire
to extend her visit to a fortnight at least, and Claire had happily agreed.  Mrs Fanshawe recalled
the incident as she poured out tea, and rated herself for her imprudence, but the deed was
done; there was the girl, looking pretty enough to turn any young man's head, and there, alas!
was Erskine, who should, by all the laws of what was right and proper, be even now making love
to Janet Willoughby in Scotland!  Janet was rich, Janet was well born, Janet was amiable and
easily led, for years past Mrs Fanshawe had set her heart on Janet as a daughter-in-law, and
she was not easily turned from her purpose. Throughout that first afternoon her thoughts were
busily engaged planning ahead, striving to arrange the days to the hindrance of dangerous tete-a-tetes,
Erskine appeared to have returned in ignorance of Miss Gifford's presence.  Mrs Fanshawe had
been careful to avoid all reference to the girl in her letters, and was unable to think how
the information could have leaked out, nevertheless the choice of Major Humphreys as a companion
filled her with suspicion.  Never before had such an invitation been given on Erskine's initiative;
on more than one occasion, indeed, he had confessed that he found the Major a bore, and had
expressed surprise at his mother's liking for so dull a man.

Mrs Fanshawe had never found the Major dull, since he shared with enthusiasm her own passion
for gardening, and was a most valuable adviser and assistant.  Together they had planned the
flagged path winding low between the high banks of the rock garden, together they had planted
the feathery white arenaria calearica in the crevices of the steps leading upward to the pergola,
together they had planned the effect of clusters of forget-me-not, and red tulips among the
long grasses in the orchard.  There was never any dearth of conversation between Major Humphreys
and Mrs Fanshawe, and a stroll round the rose garden might easily prolong itself into a discussion
lasting a couple of hours.  Hence came the suspicion, or Erskine knew as much, and had deliberately
invited this man before any one of his own friends. Despite all appearance to the contrary,
Mrs Fanshawe felt convinced that "the bore" had been brought down to engage her own attention,
and so leave her son free to follow his own devices.  She set her lips, and determined on a
counter move.

A partie carree was dangerous under the circumstances; safety lay in a crowd.  That evening
when Mrs Fanshawe retired to dress for dinner, the telephone in her boudoir was used to ring
up all the big houses in the neighbourhood, invitations were given galore for tennis, for dinner,
for lunch; and return invitations were accepted without consultation with her son.  At the
end of half an hour she hung up the receiver, satisfied that Erskine's opportunities for tete-a-tetes
would be few.  Perhaps also time would suggest some excuse for shortening the girl's visit
to the ten days originally planned.  She must think it out, put her wits to work.  Claire was
a pretty creature and a delightful companion, but a nobody, and poor into the bargain.  She
could not be allowed to upset a cherished plan!

During dinner Mrs Fanshawe alluded casually to the coming gaieties, and mentally paid a tribute
of admiration to the aplomb with which Claire listened, and smiled, betraying not a flicker
of surprise at the sudden change of programme.  The good lady was so pleased with the result
of her own scheming, that when later on the Major proposed a game of patience, she accepted
at once, and viewed with equanimity the sight of the two young people strolling down the garden
path.  It would be the last night when such an escape would be possible!

It was an exquisite moonlight night, clear enough to show the colour of the flowers in the
beds and borders.  Claire's white dress took on a ghostly hue against the deep background of
the trees, her cheeks were pale, too, and the long line of eyelash showed dark against her
cheeks. She felt very happy, very content, just the least little bit in the world, afraid!
Captain Fanshawe was smoking a cigarette, and in the intervals drawing deep sighs of enjoyment.

"There's only one thing that worries me--why didn't I come back last week?  To think of rain,
and mist, and smoky fires, and then--This!  I feel like a man who has been transported into
fairyland!"

Claire felt as if she also was in fairyland, but she did not say so. There are things that
a girl does not say.  They paced up and down the winding paths, and came to the flight of steps
leading to the pergola, "The Flowery Way" as Mrs Fanshawe loved to call it, where the arenaria
calearica shone starry white in the moonlight.  Erskine stopped short, and said urgently--

"Would you mind walking on alone for a few yards?  I'll stand here ... while you go up the
steps.  Please!"

Claire stared in surprise, but there seemed no reason to deny so simple a request.

"And what am I to do when I get there?"

"Just stand still for a moment, and then walk on...  I'll come after!"

Claire laughed, shrugged, and went slowly forward along the flagged path, up the flower-sprinkled
stair, to pause beneath an arch of pink roses and look back with an inquiring smile.  Erskine
was standing where she had left him, but he did not smile in response, while one might have
counted twenty, he remained motionless, his look grave and intent, then he came quickly forward,
leapt up the shallow steps and stood by her side.

"Thank you!" he said tersely, but that was all.  Neither then or later came any explanation
of the strange request.

For a few moments there was silence, then Erskine harked back to his former subject.

"Scottish scenery is very fine, but for restful loveliness, Surrey is hard to beat.  You haven't
told me yet how you like our little place, Miss Gifford!  It's on a very modest scale, but
I'm fond of it.  There's a homey feeling about it that one misses in bigger places, and the
mater is a genius at gardening, and gets the maximum of effect out of the space.  Are you fond
of a garden?"

"I've never had one!"  Claire said, and sighed at the thought.  "That's one of the Joys that
does not go with a roving life!  I've never been able to have as many flowers as I wanted,
or to choose the right foliage to go with them, or to pick them with the dew on their leaves."
She paused, smitten with a sudden recollection.  "One day this year, a close, smouldering oven-ey
day, I came in from school and found--a box full of roses!  There were dewdrops on the leaves,
or what looked like dewdrops.  They were as fresh as if they had been gathered an hour before.
Dozens of roses, with great long stems.  They made my room into a bower."

"Really!  Did they?  How very jolly," was Erskine's comment.

His voice sounded cool and unperturbed, and Claire did not venture to look at his face.  She
thought with a pang, that perhaps after all she had been mistaken.  Perhaps Mrs Willoughby
had been the real donor ... perhaps he had never thought...  She hurried on terrified lest
her thoughts might be suspected.

"Mrs Fanshawe has been so kind, allowing me to send boxes of fruit and flowers to a friend
in hospital.  One of our mistresses, who is being treated for rheumatism."

"Poor creature!" said the Captain with careless sympathy.  "Dull work being in hospital in
this weather.  How have you been getting on with my mother, Miss Gifford?  I'm awfully glad
to find you down here, though I should have enjoyed showing you round myself.  I'm a bit jealous
of the mater there!  She's a delightful companion, isn't she?  So keen and alert.  I don't
know any woman of her age who is so young in spirit. It's a great gift, but--" he paused, drew
another cigarette from his case, and stared at it reflectively, "it has its drawbacks!"

"Yes.  I can understand that.  It must be hard to feel young, to be young in heart and mind,
and to be handicapped by a body that persists in growing old.  I've often thought how trying
it must be."

"I suppose so.  Yes.  I'm afraid I wasn't thinking about it in that light.  I was not discussing
the position from my mother's point of view, but from--her son's!  It would be easier sometimes
to deal with a placid old lady who was content with her knitting, and cherished an old- fashioned
belief in the superiority of man!  Well! let us say the equality.  But the mater won't even
grant that.  By virtue of her superior years she is under the impression that she can still
manage my affairs better than I can myself, which, of course, is a profound delusion!"

Looking at the firmly cut profile it seemed ridiculous to think of any one managing this man
if it were not his will to be managed.  Mother and son were alike in possessing an obstinate
self-will.  A conflict between them would be no light thing.  Woman-like, Claire's sympathies
leant to the woman's side.

"It must be very difficult for a mother to realise that her son is really past her control.
And when she does, it must be a painful feeling.  It isn't painful for the son; it's only annoying.
The mother fares worst!"

Captain Fanshawe laughed, and looked down at the girl's face with admiring eyes.

"What a faculty you have of seeing the other side!  Do you always take the part of the person
who isn't here?  If so, all the better for me this last week, when the mater has been spinning
stories of my obstinacy, and pig-headedness, and general contradictiveness.  I thought I had
better hurry home at once, before you learnt to put me down as a hopeless bad lot!"

Claire stood still, staring with widened eyes.

"Hurry home--hurry home before--" She stopped short, furious with herself for having taken
any notice of the slip, and Erskine gave a short embarrassed laugh, and cried hastily--

"Oh, I knew; of course I knew!  The rain was only an excuse.  The real reason was that as soon
as I knew you were staying here, I hadn't patience to stay on.  I stood it for exactly three
hours, thinking of you in this garden, imagining walking about as we are walking now, and then--I
bolted for the afternoon train!"

Claire felt her cheeks flame, and affected dignity to hide her deep, uncontrollable joy.

"If I had been your hostess--"

"But you weren't, you see...  You weren't!  For goodness' sake don't put yourself in her place
next.  Be Claire Gifford for once, and say you are glad to see me!"  His eyes met hers and
twinkled with humour as he added solemnly.  "There's not a single solitary convention that
could possibly be broken by being civil to a man in his own home!  Even your ultra sensitive
conscience--"

"Never mind my sensitive conscience.  What I want to know is, how did you know?  Who told you
that I was here?"

It was significant that the possibility that Mrs Fanshawe had written of her guest never occurred
to Claire's mind; that Erskine like herself discounted such a possibility.  He replied with
a matter-of-fact simplicity which left Claire marvelling at the obtuseness of mankind--

"Janet, of course.  Janet Willoughby.  We were staying in the same house.  We were talking
of you yesterday morning, and comparing notes generally.  She said you were--oh! quite a number
of agreeable things-- and I agreed with her, with just one exception.  She considered that
you were responsive.  I said I had never found any one less so.  She said you were always so
ready to meet her halfway.  I complained that you refused to meet me at all.  I ... er ...
told her how I felt about it, and she said my chance was waiting if I choose to take it--that
you were staying here keeping the mater company.  So--"

Claire said nothing.  She was thinking deeply.  For how many days had Janet been staying in
the same house with Erskine?  Perhaps a week, certainly several days, yet it had been only
yesterday morning that she had given the news.  Yesterday morning; and in three hours he had
flown! How was Janet faring now, while Claire was walking in fairyland?

"You are not angry?  Why do you look so serious?  Tell me you are not sorry that I came?" said
a deep voice close to her ear, but before she had time to answer, footsteps approached, and
Mrs Fanshawe's voice was heard calling in raised accents--

"Erskine! are you there?  Give me your arm, dear; I am so tired.  It's such a perfect night,
that it seemed a shame to stay indoors.  The Major has been admiring `The Flowery Way.'  It
certainly looks its best to- night."  She turned towards Major Humphreys with her light, cynical
laugh.  "My son declares that it is profanation to allow ordinary, commonplace mortals to walk
up those steps!  He always escorts my visitors round by another way.  He is ungallant enough
to say that he has never yet seen a girl whom he would care to watch walk up those steps in
the moonlight.  She would have to be quite ideal in every respect to fit into the picture.
We'll go round by the lily garden, Erskine, and then I think Miss Gifford and I will be off
to bed.  You men will enjoy a smoke."

For the next ten minutes Mrs Fanshawe kept tight hold of her son's arm, and Claire talked assiduously
to Major Humphreys.  She knew now why Erskine had asked her to walk ahead up "The Flowery Way!"

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE.

ALL IN A GARDEN FAIR.

The next afternoon a party of friends had been bidden for tennis.  For the morning no plans
had been made, but throughout its length Mrs Fanshawe fought a gallant fight against overwhelming
odds, and was hopelessly beaten for her pains.  It was her strong determination that her son
should be prevented from holding another tete-a-tete with Claire Gifford.  Erskine actively,
and Claire passively, desired and intended to bring about just that very consummation, while
Major Humphreys, shrewdly aware of the purpose for which he had been invited, aided and abetted
their efforts by the development of a veritable frenzy of gardening enthusiasm.  He questioned,
he disputed, he meekly acknowledged his mistakes; he propounded schemes for fresh developments,
the scenes of which lay invariably at the opposite end of the grounds from that in which the
young people were ensconced.

Mrs Fanshawe struggled valiantly, but the Triple Entente won the day, and for a good two hours
before lunch, Erskine and Claire remained happily lost to sight in the farthest recesses of
the grounds.  They had left behind the region of formal seats and benches, and sat on the grass
at the foot of a great chestnut, whose dark green foliage made a haven of shade in the midst
of the noonday glare.  Claire wore her bargain frock, and felt thankful for the extravagant
impulse of that January morn.  Erskine was in flannels, cool and becoming as a man's neglige
invariably is; both had discarded hats, and sat bareheaded in the blessed shade, and Erskine
asked questions, dozens of questions, a very viva voce examination, the subject being the life,
history, thoughts, hopes, ambitions, and dreams of the girl by his side.

"You were an only child.  So was I.  Were you a lonely little kiddie?"

"No, I don't think I was.  My mother was a child with me.  We were blissfully happy manufacturing
a doll's house out of a packing chest, and furnishing it with beds made out of cardboard boxes,
and sofas made out of pin-cushions.  I used to feel other children a bore because they distracted
her attention."

"That would be when you were--how old?  Six or seven?  And you are now-- what is it?  Twenty-two?
I must have been a schoolboy of seventeen at that time, imagining myself a man.  Ten years
makes a lot of difference at that age.  It doesn't count so much later on.  At least I should
think not.  Do I appear to you very old?"

"Hoary!"

"No, but I say...  Honestly!"

"Don't be conceited.  You know perfectly well--"

"But I wanted to make sure!  And then you went to school.  Did you have a bad time at first
among the other girls?"

"No.  I'm afraid the other girls had a bad time with me.  I was very uppish and British, and
insisted on getting my own way.  Did you have a bad time?"

"Yes, I did," he said simply.  "Small boys have a pretty stiff time of it during their first
term, and my time happened to be stiffer than most.  I may be as miserable again.  I hope I
never may be!  But I'm pretty sure it's impossible to be more miserable than I was at nine
years old, bullied on every side, breaking my heart with home sickness, and too proud to show
a sign."

"Poor little lad!" sighed Claire softly, and for a long minute the two pairs of eyes met, and
exchanged a message.  "But afterwards?  It grew better after that?"

"Oh, yes.  I learnt to stand up for myself, and moved up in the school, and began to bully
on my own...  Did you make many real friends in your school days?"

"No real lasting friends.  They were French girls, you see, and there was the difference of
race, and religion, to divide us as we grew up. And we were birds of passage, mother and I;
always moving about."

"You felt the need of companionship?"

"No.  I had mother, and we were like girls together."  The twin dimples showed in a mischievous
smile.  "You seem very anxious to hear that I was lonely!"

"Well!" said Erskine, and hesitated as though he found it impossible to deny the accusation.
"I wanted to feel that you could sympathise with me!  I've been more or less lonely all my
life, but I have always felt that a time would come when it would be all right--when I'd meet
some one who'd understand.  I was great chums with my father, but he died when I was twelve,
and my school chum went off to China, and comes home for a few months every three years, when
it has usually happened that I've been abroad.  There are nice enough fellows in the regiment,
but I suppose I'm not quick at making friends--"

Strive as she would Claire could not resist a twinkle of amusement, their eyes met, and both
went off into a peal of laughter.

"Oh, well, there are exceptions!  That's different.  I felt that I knew you at once, without
any preliminary stages.  It must always be like that when people really fit."  And then after
a short pause he added in boyish, ingenuous tones, "Did you feel that you knew me?"

"I--I think I did!"  Claire acknowledged.  To both it seemed the most wonderful, the most absorbing
of conversations.  They were blissfully unconscious that it was old as the hills themselves,
and had been repeated with ceaseless reiteration from prehistoric periods.  Only once was there
an interruption of the deep mutual happiness and that came without warning.  Claire was smiling
in blissful contentment, unconscious of a care, when suddenly a knife-like pain stabbed her
heart.  Imagination had wafted her back to Staff-Room.  She saw the faces of the fifteen women
seated around the table, women who were with but one exception past their youth, approaching
nearer and nearer to dreaded age, and an inward voice whispered that to each in her turn had
come this golden hour, the hour of dreams, of sweet, illuminative hope. The hour had come,
and the hour had passed, leaving behind nothing but a memory and a regret.  Why should she
herself be more blessed than others?  She looked forward and saw a vision of herself ten years
hence still hurrying along the well-known street looking up at the clock in the church tower
to assure herself that she was in time, still mounting the same bare staircase, still hanging
up her hat on the same peg.  The prose of it in contradistinction with the poetry of the present
was terrifying to Claire's youthful mind, and her look was so white, so strained, that Erskine
took instant alarm.

"What is it?  What is it?  Are you ill?  Have I said anything to upset you?  I say, what is
the matter!"

"Nothing.  Nothing!  I had a--thought!  Talk hard, please, and make me forget!"

The end of the two hours found the cross-questioning still in full force; the man and the girl
alike still feeling that the half was not yet told.  They resented the quick passage of time,
resented the disturbance of the afternoon hours.

"What on earth do we want with a tennis party?" grumbled the Captain. "Wish to goodness we
could be left alone.  I suppose the mater wanted them to amuse you before I came back."

Claire murmured incoherently.  She knew better, but she was not going to say so!  They turned
unwillingly towards the house.

In the afternoon the guests arrived.  They came early, for the Fanshawe tennis courts were
in fine condition, and the prospect of meeting a new man and a new girl, plus the son of the
house, was a treat in itself in the quiet countryside where the members of the same set met
regularly at every function of the year.  One of the courts was reserved for men's fours, for
Mrs Fanshawe believed in giving her guests what they liked, and there is no doubt that men
as a rule are ungallant enough to prefer their own sex in outdoor games.

In the second court the younger girls took part in mixed fours, while others sat about, or
took part in lengthy croquet contests on the furthest of the three lawns.  Claire as a member
of the house-party had a good deal of time on her hands, and helped Mrs Fanshawe with the entertainment
of the older guests, who one and all eyed her with speculative interest.

One thin, faded woman had spent a few years in Bombay and was roused to interest by hearing
that Claire's mother was now settled in that city. Yes! she had met a Mr Judge.  Robert Judge,
was it not?  Her husband knew him quite well.  He had dined at their house.  Quite a dear man.
She had heard of his marriage, "but"--here came a look of mystification--"to a young wife;
very pretty, very charming--"

Claire laughed, and held out a little coloured photograph in a round glass frame which hung
by a chain round her neck.

"That is my mother.  She is thirty-nine, and looks thirty.  And she is prettier than that."

The faded lady looked, and sighed.  Mrs Fanshawe brightened into vivid interest.  "You know
Mr Judge, then?  You have met him?  That's quite interesting.  That's very interesting!"  Claire
realised with some irritability that the fact that one of her own acquaintances knew and approved,
instantaneously raised Mr Judge in her hostess's estimation. Hitherto he had been a name, a
nobody; now he became a real man, "quite a dear man," a man one could know!  The result was
satisfactory enough, but Claire was irritated by the means.  She was irritated also by the
subtle but very real change in her hostess's manner to herself in the last twenty-four hours;
irritated because the precious hours were passing, and Erskine was surrounded by his guests,
playing endless sets on the hot lawn.  He looked as though he were enjoying himself, too, and
that added to her annoyance, for like many another girl she had not yet realised that a man
can forget even his love in his whole-hearted enjoyment of sport!

At tea-time, however, there was a lull when Erskine carried a chair to Claire's side, and seated
himself with an air of contentment.  Once and again as the meal progressed she saw his eyes
rove around, and then come back to dwell upon herself.  She knew that he was comparing her
with the other girls who were present, knew also by the deep glow of that returning glance,
that in his eyes she was fairest and best.  The former irritation dropped from her like a cloak.

Tea was over, the guests rose from their seats.  Erskine stood by Claire's side looking down
at her with a quizzical smile.

"Er--did you notice that man who came in just before tea, with the girl in the pink frock?
He was sitting over there, on the right?"

"Yes, I noticed him.  I could see him quite well.  Why?"

"What did you think of him?"

"Quite nice.  I liked his face.  Good-natured and interesting."

Erskine laughed.

"Sure?"

"Quite sure.  Why?"

"Don't recognise him at all?  Doesn't remind you of any one you know?"

"Not in the least.  Why should he?"

Erskine laughed again.

"I'm afraid your memory is defective.  I must introduce you again!"  He walked away, laid his
hand on the arm of the new-comer, and led him back to Claire's side.  "Miss Gifford," he said
gravely, "allow me to introduce--Major Carew!"

CHAPTER TWENTY TWO.

FOUND OUT.

The man with the good-natured, interesting face bowed to Claire with the alacrity which the
normal man shows at an introduction to a pretty girl; Claire stared blankly, recovered herself,
and returned his bow in formal manner.  Erskine looked from one to the other in undisguised
surprise.

"I thought you had met...  You told me you had met Carew in town!"

"Not this Major Carew!"  Claire could not suppress a tone of regret. With all her heart she
wished that the man before her had been Cecil's fiance.

"It was the same name, but--"

"Not the same man?  It's not an unusual name, I expect there are several of us knocking about,"
the present Major Carew said smilingly.  "Do you happen to know his regiment?"

Claire knew it well, but as she pronounced the name, the hearer's face crinkled in confusion.

"But that is my own regiment!  There is no other Carew!  There's some mistake.  You have mixed
up the names."

"Oh no.  I've heard it a hundred times.  It is impossible to be mistaken.  His Christian name
is Frank."

"My name is Frank!" the strange man said, and stared at Claire in increasing perplexity.  "There
is certainly not another Frank Carew in the M---.  There is something wrong about this.  I
don't understand!"

"He is a member of the --- Club, and his people live in Surrey.  He has an old father who is
an invalid, and the name of the house is `The Moat'--"

Major Carew's face turned a deep, apoplectic red, his light eyes seemed to protrude from his
head, so violent was his anger and surprise.

"But--that's me!  That's my club, my father, my home!  Somebody has been taking my name, and
passing himself off under false colours for some mysterious reason.  I can't imagine what good
it is going to do him."

He broke off in alarm, and cast an appealing look at Erskine as Claire suddenly collapsed on
the nearest chair, her face as white as her gown.

"I say, this is a bad business I'm most awfully sorry.  I'm afraid Miss Gifford is distressed--"

Erskine's lips were set in a fury of anger.  He glanced at Claire and turned hurriedly away,
as though he could not trust himself to look at her blanched face.  To see the glint of his
eye, the set of the firm jaw, was to realise that it would fare badly with the masquerader
should he come within reach.  There was a moment of tense, unhappy silence, then Erskine drew
forward two more chairs, and motioned to the Major to be seated.

"I think we shall have to thresh this out!  It is naturally a shock, but Miss Gifford's acquaintance
with this person is very slight.  She took a violent dislike to him at first sight, so you
need not fear that she will feel any personal distress.  That is so, isn't it?  That's the
real position?"

Claire nodded a quick assent.

"Yes, yes.  I met him twice, and I hated him from the first; but my friend believes..."  Her
voice broke, and she struggled for composure, her chin quivering with pitiful, child-like distress.
"He is engaged to be married to my friend!"

A deep murmur of anger came simultaneously from both hearers.  The real Major Carew straightened
himself with an air of determination.

"Engaged to her?  Under my name?  This is too strong!  And in the name of wonder, what for?
I'm nobody.  I've nothing.  I'm the most insignificant of fellows, and chronically hard up.
What had he to gain by taking my name?"

"You are a gentleman, and he is not.  Everything is comparative.  He wanted to impress my friend,
and he knew you so well that it was easy to pretend, and make up a good tale.  He said he was
hard up.  He--he-- borrowed money!"

"From the girl?"  Again came that deep murmur of indignation.  "What an unspeakable cur, and--excuse
me, what a poor-spirited girl to have anything to do with him after that!  Could you do nothing
to prevent her making such a fool of herself?"

"Nothing.  I tried.  I tried hard, but--"

Erskine looked at her with his keen, level glance.

"And she borrowed from you to supply his needs?  No, never mind, I won't ask any more questions,
but I know!  I know!"  His eyes hardened again as he turned towards the other man.  "Carew,
this is pure swindling!  We shall have to worry this out!"

"I believe you, my boy!" said the Major tersely.  He turned to Claire and added more gently,
"Tell us some more about this fellow, Miss Gifford!  Describe him!  Would you recognise him
if you met again?"

"Oh, yes.  At once.  He is tall and dark, good-looking, I suppose, though I detest his type.
Very dark eyes.  Large features."

The Major ruminated, finding apparently no clue in the description.

"Tall.  Dark.  Large features!  I know about a hundred men to whom that description might apply.
Could you think of anything more definite?"

Claire ruminated in her turn; recalled the image of Cecil's lover, and tried to remember the
details of his appearance.

"He has very thick hair, and brushes it straight across his forehead. His eyebrows are very
short.  He has a high colour, quite red cheeks."

Major Carew made a short, choking sound; lay back in his chair, and stared aghast.  This time
it was evident that the description awoke a definite remembrance, but he appeared to thrust
it from him, to find it difficult to give credence to the idea.

"Impossible!" he murmured to himself.  "Impossible!  High colour, you say; short eyebrows.
When you say `short,' what exactly do you mean?"

"They begin by being very thick, then they stop abruptly.  They don't follow the line of the
eye, like most eyebrows.  They look--unfinished!"

Major Carew bounced upon his chair.

"Erskine, I have an idea.--It seems almost incredible, but I'm bound to find if it is correct!
There is a man who is in our camp now.  I'll make an excuse, and send him over to-night, if
you can arrange that Miss Gifford sees him when he comes.  I'll give him a message for you."

"Send!" repeated Erskine sharply; then he glanced at Claire, and sent a frowning message towards
the other man.  "That can easily be arranged. We'll leave it till evening, then.  We can't
get any further now, and I must get back to my duties.  The mater is scowling at me.  Go and
soothe her like a good fellow, but for your life--not a word of this to her!"

Major Carew rose obediently, perfectly aware that his company was not wanted, and Erskine bent
towards Claire with a few earnest words.

"Don't worry!  If this man is an impostor, the sooner it is found out, the better.  He is an
impostor, there's no getting away from that, and he is making a dupe of that poor girl for
his own ends.  If we had not made this discovery, he would have stuck to her until he had bled
her of her last penny, and then would probably have disappeared into space. She knows nothing
of his real name or position, so it would have been difficult to trace him, and probably nothing
to be gained, if he were found.  One reads of these scoundrels from time to time, but I've
never had the misfortune to meet one in the flesh.  I'd like to horsewhip the fellow for upsetting
you like this!"

"Oh, what does it matter about me?"  Claire cried impatiently.  "It's Cecil I'm thinking about--my
poor, poor friend!  She's not young, and she is tired out after twelve years of teaching, and
it's the second time!  Years ago a man pretended to love her, it was only pretence, and it
nearly broke her heart.  She has never been the same since then.  It made her bitter and distrustful."

"Poor creature!  No wonder.  But that was some time ago, and now she is engaged to this other
fellow.  Is she in love with him, do you suppose?"

Claire shrugged vaguely.

"I--don't--know!  She is in love with the idea of a home."

"And he?  You have seen them together.  He is a cur, there's no getting away from that, but
he might be attached to the girl all the same.  Do you think he is?"

"Oh, how can I tell?"  Claire cried impatiently.  "She thinks he is, but she thought the same
about the other man.  It doesn't seem possible to tell!  Men amuse themselves and pretend,
and act a part, and then laugh at a girl if she is so foolish as to believe--"

Captain Fanshawe bent forward, his arm resting on his knees, his face upraised to hers; a very
grave face, fixed and determined.

"Do you believe that, Claire?  Do you believe what you are saying?"

The grey eyes looked deep into hers, compelling an answer.

"I--I think many of them--"

"Some of them!" the Captain corrected.  "Just as some girls encourage a man to gratify their
own vanity.  They are the exceptions in both cases; but you speak in generalities, condemning
the whole sex.  Is it what you really think--that most men pretend?"

The grey eyes were on her face, keen, compelling eyes from which there was no escape.  Claire
flushed and hesitated.

"No!  No, I don't.  Not most.  But there are some!"

"We are not concerned with `some'!" he said quietly, and straightening himself, he cast a glance
around.

The guests were standing about in little groups, aimless, irresolute, waiting to be broken
up into twos and fours, and drafted off to the empty lawns; across the deserted tea-tables
his mother's eyes met his, coldly reproachful.  Erskine sighed, and rose to his feet.

"I must go.  These people need looking after.  Don't look so sad.  It hurts me to see you sad."

Just those few, hastily-spoken words and he was gone, and Claire strolled off in an opposite
direction, anxious to screen herself from observation among the crowd.  She ached with pity
for Cecil, but through all her distresses the old confidence lay warm at her heart.  There
was one man in the world who towered high above the possibility of deceit; and between that
man and herself was a bond stronger than spoken word. The future seemed full of difficulties,
but Claire did not trouble herself about the future.  The present was all-absorbing, full of
trouble; full of joy!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It was seven o'clock before the last of the guests had departed, and Mrs Fanshawe saw to it
that her son was fully engaged until it was time to dress for dinner.  Her keen eyes had noticed
signs of agitation as the two young people sat together at tea.  And what had Erskine been
talking about with that tense expression on his face?  And what had happened to the girl that
she looked at one moment so radiant, and at the next so cast-down?  Mrs Fanshawe's affections,
like those of most selfish people, were largely influenced by personal considerations.  A week
before she had felt quite a warm affection for the agreeable companion who had rescued her
from the boredom of lonely days, now hour by hour, she was conscious of a rising irritation
against the girl who threatened to interfere with her own plans.  The verdict of others confirmed
her own suspicions as to Erskine's danger, for during the afternoon half a dozen intimate friends
referred to Claire with significant intonation.  "Such a graceful creature.  No wonder Erskine
is epris!" ...  "Miss Gifford is quite charming." ...  "So interested to meet Miss Gifford!"
Eyes and voice alike testified to the conviction that if an engagement were not already arranged,
it was a certainty in the near future.  Mrs Fanshawe set her lips, and determined by hook or
crook to get Claire Gifford out of the house.

That evening at nine o'clock the parlour-maid announced that Major Carew's soldier servant
wished to see Captain Fanshawe on a message from his master, and Erskine gave instructions
that he should be sent round to the verandah, and stepped out of the window, leaving Claire
wondering and discomfited.  What had happened?  Was the impostor not to be found? In her present
tension of mind any delay, even of the shortest, seemed unbearable.

The murmur of voices sounded from without, then Erskine stepped back into the room, and addressed
himself pointedly to Claire, but without using her name.

"Would you come out just for two minutes?  It's some plan for to- morrow."

Claire crossed the room, acutely conscious of Mrs Fanshawe's displeasure, stepped into the
cool light of the verandah and beheld standing before her, large and trim in his soldier's
uniform, Cecil's lover, the man who had masqueraded under his master's name.

For one breathless moment the two stood face to face, staring, aghast, too petrified by surprise
to be able to move or speak.  Claire caught hold of the nearest chair, and clutched at its
back; the florid colour died out of the man's cheeks, his eyes glazed with horror and dismay.
Then with a rapid right-about-face, he leapt from the steps, and sped down the drive.  Another
moment and he had disappeared, and the two who were left, faced each other aghast.

"His servant!  His servant!  Oh, my poor Cecil!"

"The scoundrel!  It was a clever ruse.  No need to invent details: he had them all ready to
his hand.  The question is, what next?  The game is up, and he knows it.  What will be his
next move?"

Claire shook her head.  She was white and shaken.  The reality was even worse than she had
expected, and the thought of Cecil's bitterness of disillusion weighed on her like a nightmare.
She tried to speak, but her lips trembled and Erskine drew near with a quick word of consolation--

"Claire!"

"What is this plan, Erskine?  Am I not to be consulted?  Remember that you are engaged to lunch
with the Montgomerys to-morrow."

Mrs Fanshawe stood in the doorway, erect, haughty, obviously annoyed. Her keen eyes rested
on Claire's face, demanding a reason for her embarrassment.  Erskine made a virtue of necessity,
and offered a short explanation.

"A disagreeable thing has happened, mother.  Miss Gifford has discovered through Major Carew
that a friend is in serious trouble.  It has been rather a shock."

"Dear me.  Yes!  It would be.  Perhaps you would like to go to your room, my dear.  I'm tired
myself, and shall be glad to get to bed.  I am sure you must wish to be alone.  Shall we go?"

Claire said good night to the two men and went wearily upstairs.  At this moment even her own
inward happiness failed to console.  When contrasted with her own fate, Cecil's seemed so cruelly
unfair!

CHAPTER TWENTY THREE.

"NO!"

Sleep refused to come to Claire that night.  She lay tossing on her bed while the old clock
in the corridor without struck hour after hour.

Two, three, four, and still she tossed, and turned, and again and again asked herself the world-old
question, "What shall I do?  What shall I do?" and shuddered at the thought of the disillusionment
which was coming to her poor friend.

What was her own duty in the matter?  Obviously Cecil must be told the truth; obviously she
was the one to tell it.  Would it be possible to write?  Inclination clamoured in favour of
such a course.  It would be so much easier: it would obviate the necessity for a lacerating
interview.  Would it not be easier for Cecil, also?  Claire felt that if positions had been
reversed, she would crave above all things to be alone, hidden from the eyes of even the most
sympathising of friends; but Cecil's nature was of a different type.  Having heard the one
abhorrent fact, she would wish to probe further, to be told details, to ask a score of trifling
questions.  However full a letter might be, she would not be satisfied without an interview.
"But I might write first, and see her afterwards!" poor Claire said to herself.  "It would
not be quite so bad, when she had got over the first shock.  I could not bear to see her face..."

It was five o'clock before at last sleep came to drive away the haunting questions, and when
she woke it was to find her early tea had grown cold on the table by her side, and to see on
looking at her watch that it was nearly ten o'clock.  She dressed hurriedly and went downstairs
to find Mrs Fanshawe alone in the dining-room, reading the Morning Post.  She waved aside Claire's
apologies for her late appearance with easy good nature.  No one was expected to be punctual
at breakfast.  It was sheer tyranny to decree that visitors should get up at a definite hour.
If Claire had slept badly, why didn't she order breakfast in her room, and spend the morning
in bed?

"You look a wreck!" she said frankly, and threw down the paper with an impatient gesture. 
"Such a nuisance about this bad news.  Erskine seems disgusted with the whole affair.  He has
gone off with Major Carew to see what can be done, and is to go straight to the Willoughbys.
So tiresome, for I particularly wanted him to be in good form this afternoon!  What's it all
about?  As it has happened in my house, I think I am entitled to an explanation.  Something
to do with Major Carew's servant?  How can your friend be associated with a servant?  The man
has bolted, it appears.  The Major came over half an hour ago to say that he never returned
last night.  Thought flight the best policy, I suppose, but what I am waiting to be told, is--what
has he done?"

Claire sat down on the nearest chair, feeling more of a wreck than ever.

"Deserted!  A soldier!  But if he is found?  The punishment..."

"He has already been found out, it appears, so that it was a choice between certain punishment
if he stayed, or the chance of getting safely away.  I am waiting to hear what it's all about!"

"Oh, Mrs Fanshawe, it's so difficult.  It's not my secret!" cried poor Claire desperately.
"He, this man, has been masquerading under his master's name.  My friend knew him as Major
Carew.  She, they, became very intimate."

"Engaged, I suppose!  It doesn't say much for her discrimination.  Her ideas of what constitute
a gentleman must be somewhat vague!"  Mrs Fanshawe said disagreeably.  She felt disagreeable,
and she never made any effort to conceal her feelings, kindly or the reverse.  It was annoying
that one of her own guests should be mixed up in an unsavoury scandal with a common soldier:
annoying to have people going about with long faces, when she had planned a festive week. 
Really this Claire Gifford was becoming more and more of an incumbrance!  Mrs Fanshawe paused
with her hand on the coffee-pot, to ask a pointed question--

"Have you also known this man under his false name, may I ask?"

Claire flushed uncomfortably.

"I met him twice.  Only twice.  For a very short time."

Mrs Fanshawe did not speak, but she arched her eyebrows in a fashion which was more scorching
than words.  "So you, also, are ignorant of what constitutes a gentleman!" said those eyebrows.
"You also have been including my friend's servant among your acquaintances!"

Claire felt the hopelessness of trying to justify herself, and relapsed into silence also,
the while she made a pretence of eating one of the most miserable meals of her life.  According
to his mother, Erskine was "quite disgusted" with the whole affair!  Claire's heart sank at
the thought, but she acknowledged that such an attitude would be no more than was natural under
the circumstances.  A soldier himself, Captain Fanshawe would be a stern judge of a soldier's
fraud, while his amour propre could not fail to be touched.  Claire had too much faith to believe
that his displeasure would be extended to herself, yet she was miserably aware that it was
through her instrumentality that he had been brought in contact with the scandal.

In the midst of much confusion of mind only one thing seemed certain, and that was that it
was impossible to face a tennis party that afternoon.  Claire made her apologies to Mrs Fanshawe
as she rose from the table, and they were accepted with disconcerting readiness.

"Of course!  Of course!  I never imagined that you would.  Under the circumstances it would
be most awkward.  I expect by afternoon the story will be the talk of the place.  Your friend,
I understand, is still ignorant of the man's real station?  What do you propose to do with
regard to breaking the news?"

"In.  I'm going to write.  I thought I would sit in my room and compose a letter.--It will
be difficult!"

"Difficult!"  Mrs Fanshawe repeated the word with disagreeable emphasis.  "Impossible, I should
say, and, excuse me! cruel into the bargain.  To open a letter from a friend, expecting to
find the ordinary chit-chat, and to receive a blow that shatters one's life!  My dear, it's
unthinkable!  You cannot seriously intend it."

"You think it would be better if I told, her?"  Claire asked anxiously.  "I wondered myself,
but naturally I dreaded it, and I thought she might prefer to get over the first shock alone.
I had decided to write first, and see her later on.  But you think..."

"I think decidedly that you ought to break the news in person.  You can lead up to it more
naturally in words.  Even the most carefully written letters are apt to read coldly; perhaps
the more care we spend on them, the more coldly they read."

"Yes, that's true, that's quite true, but I thought it would be better not to wait.  She is
staying at home just now.  I don't think he will visit her there, for he seemed to shrink from
meeting her mother, but he may write and try--" Claire drew herself up on the point of betraying
that borrowing of money which was the most shameful feature of the fraud, but Mrs Fanshawe
was too much absorbed in her own schemes to notice the omission.  She had seen a way of getting
rid of an unwelcome guest, and was all keenness to turn it to account.

"He is sure to try to see her again while he is at large.  He will probably urge her to marry
him at once.  You should certainly not defer your visit if it is to be of any use.  How dreadful
it would be if she were to marry him under an assumed name!  You mustn't let us interfere with
your arrangement, my dear.  You only promised me ten days, so I can't grumble if you run away,
and for the short time that Erskine is at home, there are so many friends to fit in...  You
understand, I am sure, that I am thinking of your own convenience!"

"I understand perfectly, thank you!"  Claire replied, her head in the air, the indignant colour
dying her cheeks with red.  Mrs Fanshawe's arguments in favour of haste might be wise enough,
but her personal desire was all too plainly betrayed.  And she pointedly ignored the fact that
the proposed interview need not have interrupted Claire's visit, since it and the journey involved
could easily have been accomplished in the course of a day.  "I understand perfectly, thank
you.  I will go upstairs and pack now.  Perhaps there is a train I could catch before lunch?"

"The twelve-thirty.  That will give you the afternoon in town.  I'll order a fly from the inn.
I'm so sorry for you, dear!  Most nerve- racking to have to break bad news, but you'll feel
happier when it's done.  Perhaps you could take the poor thing with you to that sweet little farm!"

Not for the world would Claire have spent the next hour in Mrs Fanshawe's company.  She hurried
to her room, and placing her watch on the dressing-table, so timed her packing that it should
not be completed a moment before the lumbering country "fly" drove up to the door.  Then, fully
dressed, she descended the staircase, and held out a gloved hand to her hostess, apparently
unconscious of an offered kiss.

It was some slight consolation to note the change of bearing which had come over Mrs Fanshawe
during the last hour, and to realise that the success of her scheme had not brought much satisfaction.
She was nervous, she was more than nervous, she was afraid!  The while Claire had been packing
upstairs, she had had time to realise Erskine's return, and his reception of the news she would
have to break.  As she drove away from the door, Claire realised that her hostess would have
paid a large sum down to have been able to undo that morning's work!

For her own part, Claire cared nothing either way: literally and truthfully at that moment
even the thought of leaving Erskine had no power to wound.  The quickly-following events of
the last twenty-four hours had had a numbing effect on her brain.  She was miserable, sore,
and wounded; the whole fabric of life seemed tumbling to pieces.  Love, for the moment, was
in abeyance.  As the fly passed the last yard of mown grass which marked the boundary of the
Fanshawe property, she threw out her arms with one of the expressive gestures, which remained
with her as a result of her foreign training.  "Fini!" she cried aloud. Mentally at that moment,
she swept the Fanshawes, mother and son, from the stage of her life.

Where should she go next?  Back to solitude, and the saffron parlour? London in August held
no attraction, but the solitary prospect of being able to see Sophie, and at the moment Claire
shrank from Sophie's sharp eyes.  Should she telegraph to the farm, and ask how soon she could
be received; and at the same time telegraph to Mary Rhodes asking for an immediate interview?
A few minutes' reflection brought a decision in favour of this plan, and she drew a pocket-book
from her dressing-bag, and busied herself in composing the messages.  One to the farm, a second
to Laburnum Crescent announcing her immediate return, then came a pause, to consider the difficult
wording of the third.  Would it be possible to drop a word of warning, intelligible to Cecil
herself, but meaningless to anyone else who might by chance open the wire?

"Back in town.  Have important news.  Imperative to see you to-day, if possible.  Appoint meeting.
Delay dangerous."

It was not perfect, but in Claire's dazed condition it was the best she could concoct, and
it left a tactful uncertainty as to whether the news affected herself or Cecil, which would
make it the easier to explain. Claire counted the words and folded the three messages in her
hand-bag, ready to be sent off the moment she reached the station.

The fly lumbered on; up a toilsome hill, down into the valley, up another hill on the farther
side; then came a scattering of houses, a church, a narrow street lined with shops, and finally
the station itself, the clock over the entrance showing a bare four minutes to spare.

The porter labelled the luggage, and trundled it down the platform. Claire hurried through
her business in the telegraph office, and ran after him just as the train slowed down on the
departure platform.  One carriage showed two empty corner places on the nearest side, Claire
opened the door, seated herself facing the engine, and spread her impedimenta on the cushions.
But few passengers had been waiting, for this was one of the slowest trains in the day, but
now at this last moment there came the sound of running footsteps, a man's footsteps, echoing
in strong heavy beats.  With a traveller's instinctive curiosity Claire leant forward to watch
the movements of this late comer, and putting her head out of the window came face to face
with Erskine Fanshawe himself.

At sight of her he stopped short, at sight of him she stood up, blocking the window from sight
of the other occupants of the carriage; by a certain defiance of pose, appearing to defend
it also against his own entrance.  But he did not attempt to enter.  Though he had been running,
it was his pallor, not his heat, which struck Claire in that first moment.  He was white, with
the pallor of intense anger; the flash of his eyes was like cold steel.  He rested his hands
on the sill of the window, and looked up into her face.

"This is my mother's doing!"

It was a statement, not a question, and Claire made no reply.  She stood stiff and silent,
while down the length of the platform sounded the quick banging of doors.

"I got through sooner than I expected and went home to change.  I did not waste time in talking...
I could guess what had happened.  She made it impossible for you to stay on?"

Still silence.  The guard's whistle sounded shrilly.  Erskine came a step nearer.  His white
tense face almost touched her own.

"Claire!" he whispered breathlessly, "will you marry me?"

"Stand back there!  Stand back!" cried an authoritative voice.  The wheels of the carriage
rolled slowly forward.  Claire bent forward, and gave her answer in one incisive word--

"No!"

The wheels rolled faster and faster: left the station, whirled out into the green, smiling plain.

CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR.

A RUPTURE.

In after days Claire often looked back upon that journey to London, and tried to recall her
own feelings, but invariably the effort ended in failure.  She could remember nothing but a
haze of general misery and confusion, which deepened with every fresh mile, and reached its
acutest point at the moment of arriving "home."

The landlady was flustered at having to prepare for so hasty a return, and did not scruple
to show her displeasure.  She took for granted that Claire had had lunch, and the poor girl
had not the courage to undeceive her.  A telegram was lying on the dining-room table which
announced Cecil's arrival at four o'clock.  Claire ordered tea to be ready at that hour, and
stretched herself on her bed in the room upstairs which looked so bare and cold, denuded of
the beautifying personal touches.  She felt incredibly tired, incredibly lonely; she longed
with a very passion of longing for some one of her own, for the dear, beautiful mother, who
if she did not always understand, was always ready to love.  Oh, it was hard, unnatural work,
this fighting the world alone!  Did the girls who grew weary of the restraints of home, ever
realise how their working sisters sickened with longing for some one who cared enough even
to interfere!

Three o'clock, half-past three, a quarter to four.  Claire was faint for want of food, and
had enough sense to realise that this was a poor preparation for the ordeal ahead; she went
downstairs, and threw herself upon Lizzie's mercy.

"Lizzie, I have had no lunch.  I'm starving.  Could you bring up the tea now, and make some
fresh for Miss Rhodes when she arrives?"

"Why couldn't you say so before?"  Lizzie asked with the freedom of the lodging-house slavey,
but the question was spoken in sympathy rather than anger.  "The kettle's boiling, and I've
cut the bread and butter. You shall have it in two two's.  I'll cut you a sanguidge," she cried
as a supreme proof of goodwill, and clattered down the kitchen stairs at express speed.

She was as good as her word.  In five minutes tea was ready, and Claire ate and drank, keeping
her eyes turned resolutely from the clock. Before it had struck the hour, there came from the
hall the sound of a well-known double knock, and she knew that the hour of her ordeal had arrived.

She did not rise from the table; the tea-things were clattering with the trembling of the hand
that was resting upon the tray, she literally had not the strength to rise.  She lay back in
her chair and stared helplessly at the opening door.

Cecil came in.  It came as a shock to see her looking so natural, so entirely the Cecil Claire
was accustomed to see.  She looked tired, and a trifle cross, but alas! these had been prevailing
expressions even in the days when things were going comparatively well.  Casual in her own
manner, she saw nothing unusual in Claire's lack of welcome, she nodded an off-hand greeting,
and drew up a chair to the table.

"Well!  I've come.  Give me a cup of tea as a start.  I've had a rush for it.  You said to-day,
if possible, and I had nothing special on hand, so I thought I had better come.  What's the
news, and what's the danger?  Which of us does it affect,--me or you?"

"Oh, it's--horrid, horrid, horrid!  It's a long story.  Finish your tea first, then I'll tell
you.  I'm so miserable!"

"Poor old girl!"  Cecil said kindly, and helped herself to bread and butter.  Claire had a
miserable conviction that her reply had had a deceptive effect, and that the shock when it
came, would be all the more severe.  Nevertheless, she was thankful for the reprieve; thankful
to see Cecil eat sandwiches with honest enjoyment, until the last one had disappeared from
the plate.

"Well!"  Cecil pushed aside her cup, and rested an arm on the table. "Let's get to business.
I promised mother I'd catch the six o'clock train back.  What's it all about?  Some young squire
wanting to marry you, and you want my advice?  Take him, my dear!  You won't always be young
and beautiful!"

Claire shook her head.

"Nothing about me.  I wouldn't have worried you in the holidays, if--if it hadn't been for
your own sake..."

The red flowed into Cecil's cheeks, her face hardened, the tone of her voice was icy cold.

"My sake?  I don't understand.  I am not aware that you have any responsibility about my affairs!"

"Cecil, I have!  I must have.  We have lived together.  I have loved you--"

Mary Rhodes waved aside the protestations with impatient scorn.

"Don't be sentimental, please!  You are not one of the girls.  If it's the money, and you are
in a hurry to be repaid--"

"I'm not.  I'm not!  I don't care if you never pay..."  Tears of distress rose in Claire's
eyes, she caught her breath and cried in a choking sob.  "Cecil, it's about--him!  I've found
out something.  I've seen him...  Only last night..."

"I thought you might meet as his camp was so near.  Suppose you did! What was so terribly alarming
in that?"

"You haven't heard?  He hasn't been to see you, or written, or wired, to-day?"

"He has not.  Why should he?  Don't be hysterical, Claire.  If you have anything to say, say
it, and let me hear.  What have you `found out' about Major Carew?"

"He's--not Major Carew!"  Claire cried desperately.  "He has deceived you, Cecil, and pretended
to be ... to be something quite different from what he really is.  There is a real Major Carew,
and his name is Frank, and he has a home in Surrey, and an invalid father--everything that
he told you was true, only--he is not the man!  Oh, Cecil, how shall I tell you?  It's so dreadfully,
dreadfully hard.  He knew all about the real Major Carew, and could get hold of photographs
to show you, because he--he is his servant, Cecil--his soldier servant...  He was with him
in camp!"

Cecil rose from her chair, and went over to the empty fireplace, standing with her back to
her companion.  She spoke no word, and Claire struggled on painfully with her explanations.

"He--the real Major Carew--came over to a tennis party at Mrs Fanshawe's yesterday.  I thought,
of course, that it was another man of the same name, but he said--he said there was no other
in that regiment, and he asked me to tell him some more, and I did, and everything I said amazed
him more and more, for it was true about himself!  Then he asked me to describe--the man, and
he made an excuse to send his servant over in the evening so that I should see him.  He came.
Oh, Cecil!  He saw me, and he--ran away!  He had not returned this morning.  He has deserted!"

Still silence.  It seemed to Claire of most pitiful import that Cecil made no disclaimer, that
at the word of a stranger she accepted her lover's guilt.  What a light on the past was cast
by that stoney silence, unbroken by a solitary protest.  Poor Mary Rhodes had known no doubts
as to the man's identity, she had given him affection and help, but respect and trust could
never have entered into the contract!

Claire had said her say: she leant her elbows on the table, and buried her head in her hands.
The clock on the mantelpiece ticked steadily for an endless five minutes.  Then Cecil spoke:--

"I suppose," she said harshly, "you expect me to be grateful for this!"

The sound of her voice was like a blow.  Claire looked up, startled, protesting.

"Oh, Cecil, surely you would rather know?"

"Should I?"  Cecil asked slowly.  "Should I?"  She turned back to the tireless grate, and her
thoughts sped...  With her eyes opened she would not, of course, consent to marry this man
who had so meanly abused her trust, but--suppose she had not known!  Suppose in ignorance the
marriage had taken place?  If he had been loving, if he had been kind, would she in after days
have regretted the step?  At the bottom of her weary woman's heart, Cecil answered that she
would not.  The fraud was unpardonable, yet she could have pardoned it, if it had been done
for love of herself.  No stately Surrey mansion would have been her home, but a cottage of
three or four rooms, but it would have been her own cottage, her own home.  She would have
felt pride in keeping it clean and bright.  There would have been some one to work for: some
one to care: some one to whom she mattered.  And suddenly there came the thought of another
joy that might have been; she held to her breast a child that was no paid charge, but her very
own, bone of her bone, flesh of her flesh...

"No!  No!" she cried harshly, "I am not grateful.  Why did you tell me?  Why did you spoil
it?  What do I care who he was?  He was my man; he wanted me.  He told lies because he wanted
me...  I am getting old, and I'm tired and cross, but he cared.--He did care, and he looked
up to me, and wanted to appear my equal...  Oh, I'm not excusing him.  I know all you would
say.  He deceived me--he borrowed money that he could never pay back, but he would have confessed
some day, he would have had to confess, and I should have forgiven him.  I'd have forgiven
him anything, because he cared ... and after that--he would have cared more--I should have
had him.  I should have had my home..."

Claire hid her face, and groaned in misery of spirit.  From her own point of view it seemed
impossible that any woman should regret a man who had proved so unworthy, but once again she
reminded herself that her own working life counted only one year, as against Cecil's twelve;
once again she felt she had no right to judge.  Presently she became aware that Cecil was moving
about the room, opening the bureau, and taking papers out of a drawer.  At the end of ten minutes
she came back to the table, and began drawing on her gloves.  Her face was set and tearless,
but the lines had deepened into a new distinctness.  Claire had a pitiful realisation that
this was how Cecil would look when she was old.

"Well," she said curtly, "that's finished!  I may as well go for my train.  I'm sorry to appear
ungracious, but you could hardly expect me to be pleased.  You meant well, of course, but it's
a pity to interfere. There's just one thing I'd like to make clear--you and I can hardly live
together after this.  I never was a very agreeable companion, and I shall be worse in the future.
It would be better for your own sake to make a fresh start, and for myself--I'm sorry to appear
brutal, but I could not stand another winter together.  It would remind me too much..."

She broke off abruptly, and Claire burst into helpless tears.

"Oh, Cecil, Cecil ... don't hate me--don't blame me too much!  It's been hard on me, too. 
Do you think I liked breaking such news?  Of course I will take fresh rooms.  I can understand
that you'd rather have some one else, but let us still be friends!  Don't turn against me altogether.
I'm lonely, too...  I've got my own trouble!"

"Poor little Claire!"  Cecil melted at once, with the quick response which always rewarded
an appeal to her better feelings.  "Poor little Claire.  You're a good child; you've done your
best.  It isn't your fault."  She lifted her bag from the table, and took a step towards the
door, then resolutely turned back, and held out her hand.  "Good-bye. Don't cry.  What's the
good of crying?  Good luck to you, my dear, and-- take warning by me.  I don't know what your
trouble is, but as it isn't money, it's probably love.--If it is, don't play the fool.  If
the chance of happiness comes along, don't throw it away out of pride, or obstinacy, or foolish
prejudice.  You won't always be young.  When you get past thirty, it's ... it's hard ... when
there's nothing--"

She broke off again, and walked swiftly from the room.

The next moment the front door banged loudly.  Cecil had gone.

CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE.

A SUDDEN RESOLVE.

The next morning brought a letter from the farm bidding Claire welcome as soon as she chose
to arrive, but there was no second letter on the table.  Claire had not realised how confidently
she had expected its presence, until her heart sank with a sick, heavy faintness as she lifted
the one envelope, and looked in vain for a second.

Erskine had not written.  Did that mean that he had taken her hasty answer as final, and would
make no further appeal?  She had read of men who had boasted haughtily that no girl should
have an opportunity of refusing them twice; that the woman who did not know her own mind was
no wife for them, but like every other lover she felt her own case to be unique.  Driven to
answer in a moment of intolerable irritation, what else could she have said?

But he had not written!  What did that mean?  At the moment of discovering her departure, Erskine
had been consumed with anger, but afterwards, had his mother's counsels prevailed?  Had he
repented himself of his hasty impulse?  Would the days pass on, and the months, and the years,
and leave her like Cecil, solitary, apart?

Claire made a pretence at eating her breakfast, and then, too restless to stay indoors, put
on her hat, and went out to roam the streets until it should be time to visit Sophie in her
hospital.

Two hours later she returned and packed up not only her entire wardrobe, but the whole of her
personal possessions.  In the course of her walk there had come to her one of those curious
contradictory impulses which are so characteristic of a woman's nature.  Having poured out
her heart in grief because Erskine had neither written nor followed her to town, she was now
restlessly impatient to make communication impossible, and to bury herself where she could
not be found.  Before leaving the house she made Lizzie happy by a present of money, accompanied
by quite a goodly bundle of clothing, after which she interviewed the landlady, gave notice
that she no longer needed the rooms, and wrote out a cheque in payment of all claims.  Then
a taxi was summoned, the various boxes piled on top, and another chapter of life had come to
an end.

Claire drove to the station, whence she proposed to take a late afternoon train to the farm,
deposited her boxes in the left luggage office, and strolled listlessly towards the great bookstall
under the clock.  Another hour remained to be whiled away before she could start for the hospital;
she would buy a book, sit in the waiting-room, and try to bury herself in its pages.  She strolled
slowly down the length of the stall, her eyes passing listlessly from one pile of books to
another, finding little interest in them, and even less in the men and women who stood by her
side.  As Mrs Fanshawe would have said, "No one was in town"; even school-mistresses had flown
from the region of bricks and mortar.  If she had thought about it at all, Claire would have
said that there was no one she could meet, but suddenly a hand grasped her arm, and brought
her to a halt.  She started violently, and for an instant her heart leapt with a wild glad
hope.  It was not Erskine Fanshawe who confronted her, however, but a girl clad in a tweed
costume with a cloth cap to match, on the side of which a sprig of heather was fastened by
a gold brooch fashioned in the shape of a thistle.  In bewildered surprise Claire recognised
the brown eyes and round freckled face of Janet Willoughby, whom she had believed to be hundreds
of miles away, in the highlands of Scotland.

"Just come back," Janet explained.  "The weather was impossible. Nothing but sheets of rain.
I got tired, and came back to pay some visits in the south."  She hesitated, then asked a sudden
question. "Are you busy?  Going anywhere at once?  Could you spare half an hour? We might have
lunch together in the refreshment room!"

"Yes.  No.  I'd like to.  I've had no lunch."  Claire faltered nervously, whereupon Janet turned
to her maid, who was standing near, dressing-bag in hand, and gave a few quick instructions.

"Get a taxi, Ross, and take all the things home.  The car can wait for me.  I'll follow later."

The maid disappeared, and the two girls made their way across the open space.  Both looked
nervous and ill at ease, both dreaded the coming tete-a-tete, yet felt that it was a thing
to be faced.  Janet led the way to a table in the farthest corner of the room, and they talked
trivialities until the ordered dishes were set on the table, and the waiter had taken his departure.
Claire had ordered coffee, and drank eagerly, hoping that the physical refreshment would help
to steady her nerves.  Janet played with her knife and fork, and said, without looking up--

"You have left the Fanshawes, then!  I heard that you were staying on."

"Yes.  Yesterday I--came back."

The very lameness of the answer made it significant.  Janet's freckled face turned noticeably pale.

"Erskine went straight home after he left Scotland?"

"Yes."

"And before he arrived, you had promised to stay on?"

"Mrs Fanshawe asked me, before he came, if I could stay for another week, and I was very glad
to accept.  I had no other engagement."

"And then?"

"Oh, then things were different.  She didn't need company, and--and-- things happened.  My
friend, Miss Rhodes--"

Janet waved aside "my friend, Miss Rhodes," with an impatient hand.

"And Erskine?  What did he say to your leaving?"

The colour flamed in Claire's cheek; she stammered in hopeless confusion, and, in the midst
of her stammering, Janet laid both hands on the table, and, leaning forward so that the two
faces were only a few inches apart, spoke a few startling words--

"Has he--proposed to you?  I must know!  You must tell me!"

It was a command, rather than an appeal, and Claire automatically replied--

"He--he did!  Yes, but--"

"And you?"

"I--couldn't.  I said no!"

"You said no!  Erskine asked you to be his wife, and you refused?" Janet stared in incredulous
bewilderment.  A spark of indignation shone in her brown eyes.  "But why?  You care for him.
Any girl might be proud to marry Erskine Fanshawe.  Why?"

"I can't tell you.  It's so difficult.  His mother--she didn't want me. She would have hated
it.  She almost turned me out."

"His mother!  Mrs Fanshawe!"  Janet's voice was full of an ineffable surprise.  "You refused
Erskine because of her prejudice?  But she is always changing; she is the most undependable
woman on the face of the earth!  She is charming, and I'm fond of her, but I should not take
her advice about a pair of gloves.  Nothing that she could say would possibly have the slightest
influence on my life.  She's irresponsible; she sees entirely from her own standpoint.  And
Erskine--Erskine is a rock!"  She paused, pressing her lips together to still their trembling,
and Claire answered with a note of apology in her voice.

"Janet, I know!  Don't think I don't appreciate him.  Wait till you hear how it happened...
He followed me to the station; it was the very last moment, just as the train was starting.
There was time for only one word, and--I was sore and angry!"

Janet looked at her, a long, searching look.

"It's curious, but I always knew this would come.  When I saw you sitting together at supper
that first night, I knew then.  All the time I knew it in my heart, but on the surface it seemed
ridiculous, for you never met!"

"Never that you did not know, except one time in the park.  There was nothing to tell you,
Janet; nothing to hide."

"No.  So he said.  We talked of you in Scotland, you know, and it was just as I thought--a
case of recognising each other at first sight.  He said the moment he saw you you seemed different
from everyone else, and he hoped and believed that you felt the same.  That is how people ought
to love; the right way, when both are attached, both feel the same... And it is so rare.  Yet
you refused!"

"Would you marry a man if his family disapproved?"

