On the following morning work of every kind ceased; not a man with a lamp anywhere--and these
The Beast hated most; that is, none that he could see or feel. After an hour or more the head
man arrived and with two others went inside. The head man was tall and fair, had gray side
whiskers and wore a slouch hat; the second man was straight and well built, with a boyish face
tanned by the weather. The third man was short and fat: this one carried a plan. Behind the
three walked five other men.

All were talking.

"The dip is to the eastward," the head man said. "The uplift ought to clear things so we won't
have to handle the stuff twice. Hard to rig derricks on that slope. Let's have powder enough,
anyhow, Bolton."

The fat man nodded and consulted his plan with the help of his eye-glasses. Then the three
men and the five men passed in out of hearing.

The Beast was sure now. The men were going to blow out the side of the hill where his hide
was thinnest so as to make room for an air-shaft.

An hour later a gang in charge of a red-shirted foreman who were shifting a section of toy
track on the "fill" felt the earth shake under them. Then came a dull roar followed by a cloud
of yellow smoke mounting skyward from an opening high up on the hillside. Flashing through
this cloud leaped tongues of flame intermingled with rocks and splintered trees. From the tunnel's
mouth streamed a thin, steel-colored gas that licked its way along the upper edges of the opening
and was lost in the underbrush fringing its upper lip.

"What's that?" muttered the red-shirted foreman--"that ain't no blast--My God!--they're blowed up!"

He sprang on a car and waved his arms with all his might: "Drop them shovels! Git to the tunnel,
every man of ye: here,--this way!" and he plunged on, the men scrambling after him.

The Beast was a magnet now, drawing everything to its mouth. Gangs of men swarmed up the side
of the hill; stumbling, falling; picking themselves up only to stumble and fall again. Down
the railroad tracks swept a repair squad who had been straightening a switch, their foreman
in the lead. From out of the cabins bareheaded women and children ran screaming.

The end of the "fill" nearest the tunnel was now black with people; those nearest to the opening
were shielding their faces from the deadly gas. The roar of voices was incessant; some shouted
from sheer excitement; others broke into curses, shaking their fists at The Beast; blaming
the management. All about stood shivering women with white faces, some chewing the corners
of their shawls in their agony.

Then a cry clearer than the others soared above the heads of the terror-stricken mob as a rescue
gang made ready to enter the tunnel:

"Water! Water! Get a bucket, some of ye! Ye can't live in that smoke yet! Tie your mouth up
if you're going in! Wet it, damn ye!--do ye want to be choked stiff!"

A shrill voice now cut the air.

"It's the boss and the clerk and Mr. Bolton that's catched!"

"Yes--and a gang from the big shanty; I seen 'em goin' in," shouted back the red-shirted foreman.

The volunteers--big, brawny men, who, warned by the foreman, had been binding wet cloths over
their mouths, now sprang forward, peering into the gloom. Then the sound of footsteps was heard--nearer--nearer.
Groping through the blue haze stumbled a man, his shirt sleeve shielding his mouth. On he came,
staggering from side to side, reached the edge of the mouth and pitched head-foremost as the
fresh air filled his lungs. A dozen hands dragged him clear. It was Bolton.

His clothes were torn and scorched; his face blackened; his left hand dripping blood. Two of
the shanty gang were next hauled out and laid on the back of an overturned dirt car. They had
been near the mouth when the explosion came, and throwing themselves flat had crawled toward
the opening.

Bolton was still unconscious, but the two shanty men gasped out the terrible facts: "The boss
and the clerk, was jes' starting out when everything let go"; they choked; "ther' ain't nothing
left of the other men. We passed the boss and the clerk; they was blowed agin a car; the boss
was stove up, the clerk was crawlin' toward him. They'll never git out alive: none on 'em.
We fellers was jes' givin' up when we see the daylight and heared you a-yellin'."

A hush now fell on the mass of people, broken by the piercing shriek of a woman,--the wife
of a shanty man. She would have rushed in had not some one held her.

Bolton sat up, gazing stupidly about him. Part of the story of the escaped men had reached
his ears. He struggled to his feet and staggerd toward the opening of the tunnel. The red-shirted
foreman caught him under the armpits and whirled him back.

"That ain't no place for you!" he cried--"I'll go!"

A muffled cry was heard. It came from a bystander lying flat on his belly inside the mouth:
he had crawled in as far as he could.

"Here they come!"

New footfalls grew distinct, whether one or more the listeners could not make out. Under the
shouts of the red-shirted foreman to give them air, the throng fell back.

Out of the grimy smoke two figures slowly loomed up; one carried the other on his back; whether
shanty men or not, no one could tell.

The crowd, no longer controlled by the foreman, surged about the opening. Ready hands were
held out, but the man carrying his comrade waved them aside and staggered on, one hand steadying
his load, the other hanging loose. The big foreman started to rush in, but stopped. Something
in the burdened man's eye had checked him, it was as if a team were straining up a steep hill,
making any halt fatal.

"It's the boss and the clerk!" shouted the foreman. "Fall back, men,--fall back, damn ye!"

The man came straight on, reached the lips of the opening, lunged heavily to the right, tried
to steady his burden and fell headlong.

CHAPTER XV

The street lamps were already lighted on the following afternoon--when Ruth, with Peter and
Miss Felicia, alighted at the small station of Corklesville. All through the day she had gone
over in her mind the words of the despatch:

Explosion in tunnel. MacFarlane hurt--serious--will recover. Break news gently to daughter.

Bolton Asst. Engineer

Other despatches had met the party on the way down; one saying, "No change," signed by the
trained nurse, and a second one from Bolton in answer to one of Peter's: "Three men killed--others
escaped. MacFarlane's operation successful. Explosion premature."

Their anxiety only increased: Why hadn't Jack telegraphed? Why leave it to Bolton? Why was
there no word of him,--and yet how could Bolton have known that Peter was with Ruth, except
from young Breen. In this mortal terror Peter had wired from Albany: "Is Breen hurt?" but no
answer had been received at Poughkeepsie. There had not been time for it, perhaps, but still
there was no answer, nor had his name been mentioned in any of the other telegrams. That in
itself was ominous.

This same question Ruth had asked herself a dozen times. Jack was to have had charge of the
battery--he had told her so. Was he one of the killed?--why didn't somebody tell her?--why
hadn't Mr. Bolton said something?--why--why--Then the picture of her father's mangled body
would rise before her and all thought of Jack pass out of her mind.

As the train rolled into the grimy station she was the first to spring from the car; she knew
the way best, and the short cut from the station to where her father lay. Her face was drawn;
her eyes bloodshot from restrained tears--all the color gone from her cheeks.

"You bring Aunt Felicia, Uncle Peter,--and the bags;--I will go ahead," she said, tying her
veil so as to shield her face. "No, I won't wait for anything."

News of Ruth's expected arrival had reached the village, and the crowd at the station had increased.
On its inner circle, close to a gate leading from the platform, stood a young man in a slouch
hat, with his left wrist bandaged. The arm had hung in a sling until the train rolled in, then
the silk support had been slipped and hidden in his pocket. Under the slouch hat, the white
edge of a bandage was visible which the wearer vainly tried to conceal by pulling the hat further
on his head,--this subterfuge also concealed a dark scar on his temple. Whenever the young
man pressed closer to the gate, the crowd would fall back as if to give him room. Now and then
one would come up, grab his well hand and pat his shoulder approvingly. He seemed to be as
much an object of interest as the daughter of the injured boss.

When Ruth gained the gate the wounded man laid his fingers on her gloved wrist. The girl started
back, peered into his face, and uttered a cry of relief.

"Mr. Breen!" For one wild moment a spirit of overwhelming joy welled up in her heart and shone
out of her eyes. Thank God he was not dead!

"Yes, Miss Ruth,--what is left of me. I wanted to see you as soon as you reached here. You
must not be alarmed about your father." The voice did not sound like Jack's.

"Is he worse? Tell me quick!" she exclaimed, the old fear confronting her.

"No. He is all right," he wheezed, "and is going to get well. His left arm is broken and his
head badly cut, but he is out of danger. The doctor told me so an hour ago."

"And you?" she pleaded, clinging to his proffered hand.

"Oh! I am all right, too. The smoke got into my throat so I croak, but that is nothing. Why,
Mr. Grayson,--and Miss Felicia! I am so glad, Miss Ruth, that you did not have to come alone!
This way, everybody."

Without other words they hurried into the carriage, driving like mad for the cottage, a mile
away; all the worn look gone from Ruth's face.

"And you're not hurt, my boy?" asked Peter in a trembling voice--Jack's well hand in his own.

"No, only a few scratches, sir; that's all. Bolton's hand's in a bad way, though; lose two
of his fingers, I'm afraid."

"And how did you escape?"

"I don't know. I got out the best way I could. First thing I knew I was lying on the grass
and some one was pouring water over my head; then they got me home and put me to bed."

"And MacFarlane?"

"Oh, he came along with me. I had to help him some."

Peter heaved a sigh of relief, then he asked:

"How did it happen?"

"Nobody knows. One of the shanty men might have dropped a box of fulminates. Poor fellow,--he
never knew; they could find nothing of him," Jack whispered behind his hand so Ruth would not hear.

"But when did you get out of bed?" continued Peter. He was less anxious now.

Jack looked at Ruth and again lowered his voice; the sound of the carriage preventing its hoarse
notes from reaching her ears.

"About half an hour ago, sir; they don't know I have gone, but I didn't want anybody to frighten
Miss Ruth. I don't look so bad, do I? I fixed myself up as well as I could. I have got on Bolton's
hat; I couldn't get mine over the bandages. My wrist is the worst--sprained badly, the doctor
says."

If Ruth heard she made no answer, nor did she speak during the ride. Now and then she would
gaze out of the window and once her fingers tightened on Miss Felicia's arm as she passed in
full view of the "fill" with the gaping mouth of the tunnel beyond. Miss Felicia was occupied
in watching Jack. In fact, she had not taken her eyes from him since they entered the carriage.
She saw what neither Peter nor Ruth had seen;--that the boy was suffering intensely from hidden
wounds and that the strain was so great he was verging on a collapse. No telling what these
foolish Southerners will do, she said to herself, when a woman is to be looked after,--but
she said nothing of all this to Ruth.

When the carriage stopped and Ruth with a spring leaped from her seat and bounded upstairs
to her father's bedside, Miss Felicia holding Jack's hand, her eyes reading the boy's face,
turned and said to Peter:

"Now you take him home where he belongs and put him to bed; and don't you let him get up until
I see him. No--" she continued in a more decided tone, in answer to Jack's protest--"I won't
have it. You go to bed just as I tell you--you can hardly stand now."

"Perhaps I had better, Miss Felicia. I am a little shaky," replied Jack, in a faint voice,
and the carriage kept on its way to Mrs. Hicks's leaving the good lady on MacFarlane's porch.

MacFarlane was asleep when Ruth, trembling with excitement, reached the house. Outside the
sick room, lighted by a single taper, she met the nurse whose few hurried words, spoken with
authority, calmed her, as Jack had been unable to do, and reassured her mind. "Compound fracture
of the right arm, Miss," she whispered, "and badly bruised about the head, as they all were.
Poor Mr. Breen was the worst."

Ruth looked at her in astonishment. That was why he had not lifted his hat, she thought to
herself, as she tiptoed into the sick room and sank to her knees beside her father's bed.

The injured man opened his eyes, and his free hand moved slowly till it rested on his daughter's
head.

"I got an awful crack, Ruth, but I am all right now. Too bad to bring you home. Who came with you?"

"Aunt Felicia and Uncle Peter," she whispered as she stroked his uninjured hand.

"Mighty good of them--just like old Peter. Send the old boy up--I want to see him."

Ruth made no answer; her heart was too full. That her father was alive was enough.

"I'm not pretty to look at, am I, child, but I'll pull out; I have been hurt before--had a
leg broken once in the Virginia mountains when you were a baby. The smoke was the worst; I
swallowed a lot of it; and I am sore now all over my chest. Poor Bolton's badly crippled, I
hear--and Breen--they've told you about Breen, haven't they, daughter?" His voice rose as he
mentioned the boy's name.

Ruth shook her head.

"Well, I wouldn't be here but for him! He's a plucky boy. I will never forget him for it; you
mustn't either," he continued in a more positive tone.

The nurse now moved to the bed.

"I would not talk any more, Mr. MacFarlane. Miss Ruth is going to be at home now right along
and she will hear the story."

"Well, I won't, nurse, if you don't want me to--but they won't be able to tell her what a fix
we were in--I remember everything up to the time Breen dragged me from under the dirt car.
I knew right away what had happened and what we had to do; I've been there before, but--"

"There,--that will do, Mr. MacFarlane," interrupted the nurse. "Come, Miss Ruth, suppose you
go to your room for a while."

The girl rose to her feet.

"You can come back as soon as I fix your father for the night." She pointed significantly to
the patient's head, whispering, "He must not get excited."

"Yes, dear daddy--I will come back just as soon as I can get the dust out of my hair and get
brushed up a little," cried Ruth bravely, in the effort to hide her anxiety, "and then Aunt
Felicia is downstairs."

Once outside she drew the nurse, who had followed her, to the window so as to be out of hearing
of the patient and then asked breathlessly:

"What did Mr. Breen do?"

"I don't know exactly, but everybody is talking about him."

At this moment Miss Felicia arrived at the top of the stairs: she had heard Ruth's question
and had caught the dazed expression on the girl's face.

