Complaints of some of these seizures officially reached Congress. Countless tales of other
infringements upon American rights on the lower Mississippi were told among the settlers along
the western slope of the Alleghanies, arousing them to the conviction that they were being
sacrificed by the commercial interests of the Atlantic plain who wished to preserve a profitable
trade with Spain. Gardoqui had arrived at the seat of government in 1785 as the first representative
of the Spanish King. He was determined, as he said, to make the lower Mississippi a "bone of
contention" in negotiating the long-delayed treaty with the United States. Not much agitation
on his part was necessary. The western people were wrought up to the determination to take
matters into their own hands, if necessary, to procure an outlet to Europe for their goods.
The rumour that Jay, Secretary of Foreign Affairs, had approved to Congress the suggestion
of Gardoqui, that the river be closed for ten years as the price of a commercial treaty, drove
them to the point of forcible resistance. The Spanish also continued to occupy posts on the
American side of the Florida boundary line, but this was a grievance only as they were accused
of arousing the Indians to hostility against American settlers. In truth, these western pioneers
formed a long arm of people thrust out between Indians under British dominance on the north
and Indians under Spanish control on the south.

Believing themselves outside the pale of eastern protection, the western people entertained
various projects for self-preservation. George Rogers Clark, whose daring Virginia expedition
into the Illinois country had gained him fame in the Revolutionary days, placed himself at
the head of a volunteer company which called itself the "Wabash regiment," and had been recruited
in Kentucky for an expedition against the Shawnee Indians. Clark had degenerated through intemperance
into a kind of border freebooter. Turning his troops from the original purpose, he seized the
goods of the Spanish traders at Post Vincennes as a retaliation upon the Spanish, and prepared
to descend upon New Orleans. Congress was compelled to take strong measures for disbanding
his followers and making amends to Spain. A short time after, another Kentuckian was at Vincennes
organising men to drive out the Spanish and make a settlement at Natchez, presumably inside
the limits of Georgia. "Ireland is a free country to what this will be when its navigation
is entirely shut," he wrote to the governor of Georgia in unfolding his scheme. An emissary
was sent through the Illinois French settlements to describe the Spanish outrages on the lower
Mississippi. Seditious papers were circulating in Kentucky and in the revolutionary State of
Franklin. "In case we are not countenanced," said one of these documents, "and succoured by
the United States, our allegiance will be thrown off and some other power applied to. Great
Britain stands ready with open arms to receive and support us." One adventurer assured Gardoqui
that fifty thousand men would be in arms in the western country to get their commercial rights.

Even a more efficient government than a Confederation would have experienced difficulty in
overcoming these decentralising effects of the Alleghany Mountains, before improved methods
of transportation had annihilated the barrier. The people along the Atlantic Ocean and those
in the Mississippi valley lived really in two parallel north and south plains, having easier
outlets through foreign countries and therefore more points of contact with them than with
each other. Although obscured by the later north and south sectionalism, this east and west
difference for many years caused a fear in the older portion that the newer or valley part
would secede from it. This fear began with the troubles over the navigation of the Mississippi,
it was renewed by Genet's intrigues, it reached its climax in Burr's expedition, and it subsided
only when railways and canal transportation had levelled the mountains and thereby lessened
the importance of waterways.

European strategists made ready use of the isolated condition of the western people, not always
with the object of absorbing them, but rather of using them in the great game of territorial
acquisition played so many times on the American board. For instance, in 1787, the French Minister
to the United States forwarded to his Government a document presented to him, evidently by
a native of France residing in America, which described the extent of the Mississippi valley
and the dissatisfaction of its inhabitants. The paper asserted that the people beyond the mountains

"seek for a new support and offer to the power which will welcome them advantages which will
before long effect those which America, as it now is, could promise.... It requires a protector;
the first who will stretch out his arms to it will have made the greatest acquisition that
could be desired in this new world. Fortunate my country if she does not let this moment escape,
one of those not presented twice."

A year or two later, the British consul at Philadelphia was suggesting to his Government the
use of the western settlements of the United States in an expedition to be made against Spanish
New Orleans. These frontiersmen would co-operate, he thought, in any measure that might tend
to secure them a free trade which the uninterrupted passage of the Mississippi would effectually
establish. He pronounced them a hardy race, adventurers by profession, and ready to seize every
opportunity of profit or employment. They were described in a project for using them presented
at another time to the French Government as "hardy, enterprising, good marksmen, lovers of
liberty, and always armed."

The extent to which the western people were prepared to go in the Confederation days was a
matter of much dispute, and was aired fully in the course of time by controversies in Kentucky
politics. But their hardihood and capacity for achievement have never been questioned. They
were qualified by nature to insist upon their rights even if such insistence embarrassed the
foreign negotiations of the home Government. Bred in the rural districts of Virginia and the
Carolinas, accustomed to solitude and privations, depending upon their rifles for food and
largely for dress, they felt no ties binding them to home and the old life when once they had
crossed the mountains. They were self-dependent in nearly every particular except arms and
ammunition. Carrying the organising instinct of their English forefathers, they set up local
government as rapidly as their numbers warranted. To be held as colonists by the States to
the eastward of the mountains was contrary to that spirit of inherited freedom which had already
made those States out of colonies. Just at the dawn of the Revolution the colonisation of the
far-famed "blue grass" region of Kentucky had begun, when Daniel Boone led the Transylvania
Company from North Carolina to found Boonesboro. Although the independent government which
this company erected was suppressed by the governors of Virginia and North Carolina, the movement
could not be stayed. A few years later, these Kentuckians, increased in numbers by the enormous
migration thither, were holding secession conventions which Virginia thought wise not to resist.
North Carolina repressed with some effort the independent State of Franklin, or "Frankland,"
the land of the free Franks, as it was first called, which John Sevier and other hardy spirits
set up in what is now eastern Tennessee.

While these attempts to create independent States in the remote regions are now praised as
evidences of the organising instinct of the American people, it must not be forgotten that
at the time they were formed within the legitimate bounds of regular States and seriously threatened
to impair their domains. The domain of a State is regarded as one of the most inviolable attributes
of its sovereignty. The third Article of the Confederation bound the States to assist any of
their number against attacks made upon its sovereignty. Not only were the States of Virginia
and Kentucky threatened with the loss of territory through insurrection. The "Green Mountain
boys," headed by Ethan Allen, had succeeded in setting up an independent State, with a popular
innkeeper as governor, upon land claimed by New York. Against these infringements upon the
integrity of the States, the Congress could do nothing more than draw up resolutions expressing
"the highest disapprobation" of those who participated.

The experience of the National Government under the Articles of Confederation with the settlers
on the frontier beyond the recognised limits of the thirteen States, although alarming at the
time, was invaluable as a lesson. It taught thinking men not only that the Central Government
must be given more power to protect the States themselves, but that these remote districts
could be best governed by the central authorities. Every argument of this kind was timely since
it might induce the States still holding out to yield their back lands as a common property.
The beginning of ceding the western lands to the common stock is important as a precedent since
it created ultimately the profit-sharing principle of the public domain. Mention has been made
of the failure in Congress to place western bounds on certain States. When the Articles were
sent to all the States for ratification before going into effect, individual State Legislatures
had opportunity of making such boundary restriction the price of a national agreement. Individualism
in this instance proved a blessing. It is important to an appreciation of the times to note
that the State whose persistence won the victory was not one of the largest or most influential.
Maryland was the eighth in rank of territory and probably the sixth in number of population.
Her powerful neighbour and ancient enemy, Virginia, upon assuming statehood, had reiterated
her charter claims to full one-half the territory of British North America, magnanimously "ceding"
to the States of Pennsylvania, Maryland, and the two Carolinas the land of which they were
already possessed.

As Virginia admitted, the British Government had always assumed that the Atlantic coast-plain
was the seat of its thirteen American colonies, and had refused to acknowledge openly their
claims much beyond the crest of the Alleghanies. The ownership of the vacant lands between
the mountains and the Mississippi River was vested in the King under the name of "Crown lands."
But no sooner had the struggle for independence begun than the colonies determined in case
of success to claim the entire British possessions in those parts; that is, to the Mississippi.
As early as 1776, Silas Deane, the commercial agent of the United States in Paris, suggested
to Congress the sale of the vacant lands to French colonists as a means of paying the expenses
of the war. The rich valley, when fully regarded as a possible spoil of war, became a golden
apple of discord. It had been won, small States argued, "by the blood and treasure of all,
and ought, therefore, to be a common estate."

Led more by the necessity for some kind of a national government to replace the rule of Britain
thrown off in 1776 than by such appeals, the Legislature of New York in 1781 authorised her
delegates in Congress to quitclaim all lands lying outside her present boundaries to the General
Government for the benefit of present and future States of the Union. Although the claim of
New York, based upon a treaty with the Indians, had been regarded as shadowy by other States,
yet her greatly lauded action led in the same year to propositions from Virginia and, a few
years later, to advances from Massachusetts and Connecticut resulting eventually in their giving
up all territory north of the Ohio and west of Pennsylvania and New York. Persuaded by these
favourable indications, Maryland signed the Articles, as heretofore described.

Whether the persistence of Maryland was due to her desire for the national good, to selfishness
in wishing a share of the national spoils of war, or to animosity toward Virginia dating from
their ancient boundary dispute, the result may well be pronounced the most important step toward
union since the appointment of Washington to the head of a national army. The public domain
was the first inheritance the needy National Government ever received aside from debts and
disputes. Not that the pecuniary return from the sale of the public lands proved as large as
at first imagined; but that this tangible asset gave some dignity to the intangible Union.
The disposal of the land, as a profit-sharing enterprise, formed a business undertaking which
concerned all the States. It could be managed only by the combined powers.

CHAPTER III

THE CARE OF THE PUBLIC LANDS

Having been entrusted with the responsibility of administering the back lands, Congress immediately
entered upon the work of arranging a method for their survey and sale, and of devising a feasible
government to be extended over them. The pressing need of securing a revenue from them, together
with a realisation that prospective purchasers would require protection both from each other
and from the savages, impelled the members to immediate action. Against the many failures with
which the old Congress stands charged during the eight years of its national control, the ordinances
for the disposition and government of the western lands form a most pleasant and redeeming
contrast. The Congress faced an absolutely new task. There were many precedents in history
for colonial holding, varying from the policy of Greece, which allowed complete severance of
home ties, to that of Spain, which regarded colonies as existing solely for the benefit of
the mother country. By adopting the one, the United States must have left the western emigrants
to perish. The other was repugnant to a people who had just rebelled against even the moderate
colonial system of Great Britain. Equality is the only standard for a republic. Here was an
action almost unprecedented. Instead of holding the outlying region as a colonial possession
for the benefit of the older portion, or making it into an Indian hunting-ground as Britain
had tried to do, the Confederation of States had voluntarily agreed to erect it into independent
States upon perfect equality with themselves. It was a practical application of the principles
of the Declaration of Independence, of no taxation without representation, and of the real
equality of all portions of the domain. The action was taken for the very practical purpose
of assuring the States that if they surrendered their claims to the western lands, their citizens
who migrated thither would not lose their rights by changing from State to national sovereignty.

Jefferson is presumed to be the father of the ordinance which first collected these promises
into a working model; but not even Jefferson, rejoicing in laying out imaginary states from
the new national possession and giving classic names to them, could foresee that there was
being called into existence a factor most dangerous to his beloved individualism. The people
who would remove from the States and settle upon lands purchased from the National Government,
would be under national protection, subject to national legislation, and eventually be admitted
by the national power to national statehood. Their affection would be gradually won away from
their native States to be centred on the Union. Yet the States had not been able to hold the
lands individually. Thus was necessity silently making the Union.

The provisions of the Jefferson Ordinance of 1784 for the temporary government of the western
territory have been almost lost sight of because, after it had been in operation for three
years and little had been accomplished through difficulty of dealing with the Indians in possession
of the land, circumstances arose which brought about a new ordinance superseding the old and
changing it in its working details. Yet the first ordinance embodied the main principles in
creating States which have since been followed. The number of people in any given portion of
the public lands was to be the determining factor. Jefferson's ordinance would allow these
settlers to establish a temporary government, to adopt the constitution of any one of the thirteen
States, and to elect a legislature. When their number should reach twenty thousand, they would
be allowed to call a convention and establish a permanent constitution and government. Upon
attaining a population of free inhabitants equal to that of the least numerous of the thirteen
original States (at this time probably Georgia, whose population was estimated at twenty-five
thousand) they would be admitted on equal footing with the other States. Between the establishment
of the temporary government and admission to statehood, the prospective state should be allowed
a representative in Congress with a right of debating but not of voting. The well-known Ordinance
of 1787, which replaced that of 1784, substituted for the temporary government to be erected
by the settlers a ready-made administration of governor, secretary, and territorial judges,
to be sent out by the National Government, and to continue until the free male population should
number five thousand, when they were to be allowed to exercise home rule in setting up a territorial
government. The standard for statehood was fixed definitely in the later ordinance at sixty
thousand free inhabitants.

Jefferson, notwithstanding the supposedly aristocratic training of a Virginia environment,
placed no qualification for suffrage or office in his ordinance. The Ordinance of 1787, presumably
drafted under democratic New England ideas, placed a qualification of ownership of two hundred
acres of land upon a representative in the territorial legislature and of fifty acres upon
an elector for a representative. Here was an illustration of that revertive tendency in the
sections which has maintained the national equilibrium. Accumulated wealth in the North was
beginning to overcome the levelling creed of the Puritan, while the economic loss resulting
from slave labour in the South was reducing the colonial Cavalier class in the planter States.
The exceedingly profitable cotton culture had not yet developed in the Gulf States to create
the ante-bellum aristocracy of the lower South, nor had the stream of European immigration
set in to the Northern States to restore the levelling tendency there.

The two ordinances were alike in precluding the separation of any part of the territory from
the United States, requiring the inhabitants to pay a portion of the national debt, and forbidding
new States, to interfere with the sale of or to tax the national public lands within their limits.

Two provisions in Jefferson's first draft of the Ordinance of 1784 were struck out by the Congress
before adoption. One, which forbade granting of titles of nobility, was eliminated because,
as Jefferson wrote to Madison, "it was thought an improper place to encounter them." The contest
against the introduction of aristocracy was unlikely to be precipitated in the backwoods bordering
the Ohio River. Yet the provision would have been in keeping with the spirit of the times.
Congress had recently rejected a proposition made to Washington by the Polish Order of Knights
of Divine Providence that their order should be officially extended to the United States. The
other eliminated provision, forbidding slavery and involuntary servitude in the territory after
the year 1800 except as a punishment for crime, is important not only as the first attempted
restriction of the slavery system by the National Government, but also as furnishing an interesting
comparison with the later sentiment on this unfortunate controversy which affected every phase
of United States history for a century.

When he incorporated this provision in his draft of the ordinance, Jefferson was but little
in advance of the opinion of the day on the effects of employing slave labour. Never until
its death was the system so near dissolution as in the organising days between the birth of
the republic and the invention of the cotton-gin. State after State in forming its constitution,
or by special enactment, arranged for immediate abolition or gradual emancipation. Even in
slaveholding Virginia and North Carolina, few could be found to defend the system from an economic
standpoint, although they had to admit the necessity of its use in the rice swamps of South
Carolina and Georgia.

Lafayette was urging Washington to employ his recently acquired leisure in transforming slaves
into free tenants. "Such an example as yours," he wrote from Cadiz, "might render it a general
practice."

"Would to God a like spirit might diffuse itself generally into the minds of the people of
this country," replied the Virginia farmer, "but I despair of seeing it. To set the slaves
afloat at once would, I really believe, be productive of much inconvenience and mischief, but
by degrees it certainly might and assuredly ought to be effected; and that too by legislative
authority."

At the same time he put himself on record as determined never to add another to the number
of his slaves by purchase. A petition for emancipation had just been introduced into the Virginia
House of Delegates and was "rejected without dissent; but not without an avowed patronage of
its principles by sundry respectable members," as Madison informed Washington. "A motion was
made to throw it under the table, which was treated with as much indignation on one side as
the petition itself was on the other."

Jefferson had been disappointed at an earlier time because no emancipation provision had been
incorporated in the Constitution of Virginia.

An interesting commentary on the industrial progress of the country is afforded by comparing
these early views of Southern statesmen upon the slavery system with those held by a later
generation.

Public sentiment in Virginia was not ready to follow the champions of individual freedom to
the emancipation point, and it refused as strenuously to be coerced as it did in later years.
When the Quakers of Philadelphia attempted to secure by law the freedom of a body-servant whom
a neighbour of Washington had taken with him on a visit to that city, the General wrote to
his friend, Robert Morris, the wealthy merchant of Philadelphia, "If the practice of this society,
of which Mr. Dalby speaks, is not discountenanced, none of those whose misfortune it is to
have slaves as attendants, will visit the city if they can possibly avoid it."

However, the clause which was struck from the Ordinance of 1784 was not intended to abolish
slavery where it already existed, but to prevent the extension of the system to new territory.
It was the forerunner of a similar controversy which attended every addition to the national
territory as the people spread westwardly, and which eventually became a strong factor in precipitating
the Civil War. The motion to cast out was made by Spaight, of North Carolina, but Williamson,
his colleague, voted to retain the clause and thus divided the State. Jefferson was outvoted
by his two colleagues who favoured no restriction on the people desiring to migrate to the
new lands. Maryland and South Carolina were the only Southern States unanimously against the
clause. Six States north of the Mason and Dixon line voted to retain the clause. Jefferson
took the defeat sorely.

To Madison he reported, "South Carolina, Maryland, and! Virginia! voted against it. N. Carolina
was divided as would have been Virginia had not one of its delegates been sick in bed." The
absent member was young James Monroe, serving his first term in Congress.

The close vote, of which Jefferson complains, well illustrates the evils of voting by States
in Congress. Seven affirmative State votes were necessary to retain the anti-slavery clause.
Only eleven States were represented. One of these had but one delegate and his vote was cast
out by the rule requiring a State to be represented by at least two delegates to participate
in a vote. Of the ten States remaining, seven must have at least two delegates of an affirmative
mind from each to retain the clause. Six of these States voted solidly to keep the restriction,
but the seventh State could not be secured, as Jefferson stated. Considered by our present
method of voting, sixteen of the twenty-three delegates present voted affirmatively and seven
negatively; yet the motion was lost and the clause struck out. Rarely has the power of a minority
been so great. The individual may be allowed to hide the mass by being held too close to the
vision.

However, the defeat of Jefferson's plan of excluding slavery from the territory after the year
1800 must be considered fortunate by all in sympathy with the general purpose. By it, slavery
would have been permitted in the western country for sixteen years. The large influx of migration
into the territory within that period, especially from the Southern States, would have established
the system too thoroughly to be eradicated. The difficulty with which slavery was permanently
kept out, although expressly prohibited by the Ordinance of 1787, is a proof of this assertion.
The clearing of the way for the later prohibitive action by striking out the clause tended
to the ultimate good. On the other hand, it is pointed out that the Jefferson ordinance provided
only for "a temporary government of the western territory" and covered "so much of the territory
ceded or to be ceded by the individual States to the United States as is already purchased
or shall be purchased of the Indian inhabitants and offered for sale by Congress." Eulogists
of Jefferson argue, consequently, that if his restricting clause had been allowed to remain
it would have prohibited slavery in all the land west of the thirteen States, both north and
south, after the year 1800, and thus the entire slavery system would have died through non-extension.
But it must be remembered that the only land thus far ceded lay north of the Ohio and immediately
west of the free States. It is not conceivable that such a restriction would have been permitted
to hold south of the Ohio and west of the slaveholding States, directly in the line of migration.
Indeed, when the time did arrive to create a government south of the Ohio, interference with
slavery was distinctly prohibited. It is true, also, that Jefferson's ordinance as adopted
solemnly declared its articles a charter of compact to stand as unalterable constitutions both
before and after the sale of any part of the vacant land; but that a new ordinance should supersede
it after three years, simply because a proposed purchaser demanded some additional guarantees,
is a proof that none of its provisions could have withstood the pressure of slave territorial
expansion.

However, at the time, there seemed small prospect that the National Government would ever be
required to make regulations for any territory south of the Ohio. Congress had sent out appeal
after appeal to North Carolina, citing the action of the other States, and begging her to yield
her claim to what is now the State of Tennessee. But she resisted until 1790. South Carolina
retained control of a long, narrow strip, south of the present Tennessee and extending to the
Mississippi, until 1787. Georgia, claiming almost the whole of the present States of Alabama
and Mississippi, remained deaf likewise to the entreaties of Congress until 1802. Virginia,
having yielded so much of her original claim as lay north of the Ohio, was disposed to retain
her claim to the Kentucky country. Jefferson wished to yield all lying west of the mouth of
the Kanawha. Washington approved of this limit, seeing, as he said, "the impolicy of this State's
grasping at more territory than they are competent to the government of." This liberal sentiment
was never sufficiently general to be effective. Thus it came about that the Southwestern territory,
which Congress ultimately created from all land ceded south of the Ohio, was never more than
a temporary and passing arrangement compared with the North-west territory.

After much study, Congress drew up the Ordinance of 1785 for the survey and sale of such land
as might be given to its care. The details of this important arrangement in the story of the
American people illustrate the advantages arising from instituting new governments at a stroke.
The rectangular system of land surveys, like the decimal system of money, was devised and not
inherited. Each has proved a blessing in its simplicity. The divisions of the land upon an
even-number basis, the progressive numbering of the divisions, the elasticity of the system,
and the subdivisions arranged to accommodate small purchasers, have conduced by their simplicity
and adaptability to speedy disposition and settlement of the national domain and have minimised
later litigation and discord. Since the history of the American people has been influenced
so extensively and persistently by the disposal and peopling of the public lands, the simple
survey system may be counted among the valuable parts of the national machinery.

Surveys were to be made by the "geographer" of the United States, assisted by a surveyor from
each of the States. One-seventh of all lands surveyed was to be reserved for the land bounties
promised to those who had served in the Continental army. An old handbill, frequently reproduced,
shows that among the inducements to enlistment held out during the darkest period of the war
were "Ease, affluence, and a good farm." The certificates issued to the soldiers at the close
of the war in lieu of money were made receivable in payment for public land. A share in all
gold, silver, lead, and copper mines was retained by the National Government. Lot number sixteen
in every township was reserved for the maintenance of public schools.  A provision for setting
aside the section adjoining it for the support of religion was struck out, nor could a motion
prevail to preserve it for "charitable uses." The votes on this question seemed to be governed
purely by individual opinion. The delegates from Virginia, whose Legislature had just dealt
the Established Church in that State its death-blow, voted to retain the reservation of land
for religious purposes, much like the old church glebe lands. But the separation of Church
and State had become too complete to enter upon a scheme so suggestive of establishment.

For three years the Ordinance of 1784 awaited the migration of settlers to the territory who
would be protected by it, and, at the same time, put it into effect. Thomas Hutchins, the national
"geographer," and his assistants from the several States, laid off seven ranges of townships,
in the eastern part of the present State of Ohio, according to the land Ordinance of 1785,
before rumours of hostile Indians drove them back. The Secretary of War was instructed to draw
by lot enough of the surveyed land to satisfy such bounty land certificates as might be presented
and to advertise the remainder for sale. United States troops were employed to drive out the
"squatters" on the public lands, to burn their cabins, and destroy their crops. But not an
acre was sold in those three years, not a certificate of national indebtedness redeemed, and
not a shilling received from the land sales for the needy treasury.

The Jefferson ordinance had been intended for such western lands as might from time to time
be given to the National Government. But no land south of the Ohio was surrendered. Congress,
therefore, determined to cast aside the old ordinance, and to form the portion yielded into
a specific territory, with a new ordinance which would allow more leeway in forming the States
and give Congress more control over the domain from its incipience.  Accordingly, Johnson,
of Maryland, offered a new ordinance in the spring of 1786, which passed to a second reading.
With the exception of the reforms noted above, it closely resembled the old ordinance. But
in July following, after an interregnum of no quorum, the Congress passed, by an almost unanimous
vote and after a consideration of only a few days, an entirely new law governing the territory
north-west of the Ohio. It was the famous Ordinance of 1787. Its sudden transformation, inexplicable
to early investigators and solved only by later research, was the result of a business transaction
connected with the bounty certificates given to the Revolutionary soldiers.

During the progress of the war, it had been necessary to secure enlistment by offering bounty
lands. The desire to realise on these promises was shared by officers and privates alike. Doubtless
around many a camp-fire, as the war drew to a close, the value of these land certificates was
discussed, and plans made for "associating" to form colonies in the "back lands" to which the
soldiers were winning both right and title. The danger-line in the future would be along the
frontier, where the newly won empire must be guarded from invasion both from British Canada
and the Spanish Floridas, and where the advancing line of pioneers must be protected from hostile
Indians. Bands of these "associators" were organised to obtain their allotments in the new
country and to settle upon them. They would "plant a brave, a hardy, and respectable race of
people as our advanced post," wrote Washington in presenting the project to Congress. "A settlement
formed by such men would give security to our frontiers; the very name of it would awe the
Indians."

One body of men, styling themselves "The Ohio Company of Associators," composed of ex-Revolutionary
officers and privates residing in and about Boston, sent a botanist-parson, the Reverend Manasseh
Cutler, to the Congress in the summer of 1787, to urge a proposition they had advanced for
the purchase of a large tract on the Ohio River. These "adventurers," as they styled themselves,
were desirous of driving a good bargain in a low price for the land and also of gaining certain
guarantees from Congress which would give them as much personal liberty and protection in the
new home and under the National Government as they enjoyed in their present residences under
their State Governments. Cutler, provided with forty-two letters of introduction to members
of Congress and prominent citizens of New York city, reached the seat of government in due
time. "At 11 o'clock," he wrote in his private journal, "I was introduced to a number of members
on the floor of Congress Chamber, in the City Hall, by Colonel Carrington, member from Virginia.
Delivered my petition for purchasing lands for the Ohio Company, and proposed terms and conditions
of purchase." Fortunately there was a quorum in Congress, the first in nearly two months. A
few days later, Cutler was sent a copy of the Johnson ordinance then pending. To this he proposed
"several amendments." Three days afterward, the celebrated Ordinance of 1787, for the government
of that portion of the territory north-west of the Ohio, was completed and adopted to Cutler's
satisfaction. "It is in a degree remodelled," he wrote in his journal. "The amendments I proposed
have all been made except one, and that is better qualified."

Nevertheless it took a week more of haggling and lobbying before acceptable terms of sale could
be agreed upon. Another company composed of "principal characters" in the city had to be taken
into the deal in a "profound secret." Arthur St. Clair, the president of the Congress, had
to be accepted by the Associators as the governor of the territory, in order to gain his support.
Cutler had to finesse by threatening to buy from some of the States which had land for sale
within their borders. It is unfortunate for those who believe that our fathers were actuated
entirely by disinterested motives and utterly devoid of political guile that the parson lobbyist
kept such a candid diary. Day by day the business proceeded, Cutler even making a side visit
to Philadelphia while his leaven was working. At last even "that stubborn mule of a Kearney,"
as the disgusted agent called him, was "left alone," a sufficient number of votes was secured,
and Cutler was receiving congratulations on the prospects of the Ohio Company.

"By this Ordinance," he wrote, "we obtained the grant of near 5,000,000 of acres of land, amounting
to three millions and a half of dollars; one million and a half of acres for the Ohio Company
and the remainder for a private speculation in which many of the principal characters in America
are concerned."

The importance of this transaction lies not only in the fact that it was the first sale of
public lands in the United States, but that the government established for the territory formed
many precedents for later Territories and States. Some of its provisions deserve a close examination.
The changes made in the Johnson ordinance to satisfy the Ohio Company are found chiefly in
the appended six articles of the Ordinance of 1787. These formed a guarantee that citizens
in the territory deprived of the protection of their States would have the same personal rights
which they enjoyed before leaving the States. The United States, later destined to become a
protector, was feared lest it might be an oppressor. Such individual rights as habeas corpus,
trial by jury, freedom of conscience, possession of property, and similar birthrights of Englishmen,
had been secured in the States by incorporating them in the various State Constitutions under
the general name of "declaration of rights" or "bill of rights." Without such specific title,
they were placed in the Ordinance of 1787. The sixth article, no doubt also demanded by Cutler,
incorporated the very wording of Jefferson's rejected anti-slavery clause of three years before,
except making it immediate instead of after 1800. The New England Associators were unwilling
to offer their free labour in competition with slave labour in their new home. The idea was
general. "The total exclusion of slavery from the State" had been a prominent provision in
a transitory association in Connecticut four years before.

The century contest over slavery in the United States made that factor so prominent in national
history that it overshadows matters of equal importance in many transactions. The anti-slavery
provision of the Ordinance of 1787 has been extravagantly praised ever since the oratory of
Daniel Webster first called general attention to it. Sectional partisans have exhausted logic
in trying to trace the authorship to Jefferson, a Southern man, or to Dane, a Northern man.
The North has credited it to the persistence of New England; the South, pointing to the five
Southern affirmative votes out of the eight, has attributed it to the indulgence of their section.
In recognising this first anti-slavery action of the National Government, Northern orators
have overlooked an attendant clause, the first national fugitive slave law. It paved the way
for a similar provision in the Constitution and led to the obnoxious slave rendition laws of
later years. In praising the indulgence of the South, the eulogists of that section have failed
to consider the price the New England Associators paid in this first slavery compromise of
the nation.

When the blinding passion of the slavery question is eliminated from a consideration of this
ordinance some other beneficent provisions, added through the desire to satisfy the New England
purchasers, begin to appear. They are taken largely from the "bill of rights" placed in the
first constitution of the State of Virginia by George Mason, and copied in many of the later
constitutions, including that of the United States. They seek to guarantee the rights of the
individual against the encroachments of the Government; to embody the principles which the
English barons secured at Runnymede; to secure the inheritances left to the English-speaking
people by Hampden and Pym. Although many of the early State Constitutions contained a guarantee
of religious freedom, habeas corpus, trial by jury, rights to property, and regard for contracts,
as has just been stated, these principles had not been expressed in the Articles of Confederation
and the General Government was not bound in any manner to grant them in the western territory.
But their incorporation in the ordinance gave assurance that their benefits were not to be
confined to the original States.

Equally important is the clause providing for equal division of the property of people dying
intestate. This first legislation of the National Government on the subject of real property
dealt a death-blow to primogeniture, and to the last of the inherited feudal customs of the
Middle Ages. It prevented the accumulation of large estates, and insured the individual ownership
of thousands of homes. No system of foreign landlordism was possible under it. The people were
to become their own lords paramount of all socage lands. Quit-rents were to be converted into
bank accounts. The individual title derived from the National Government involves all the elements
necessary for a transfer of the soil. Indeed, this principle of the Ordinance of 1787 not only
became a pattern for future State Constitutions, but reacted in similar provisions for those
already created.

Another clause of the ordinance has often been the subject of eulogy. Yet this is simply the
statement of a principle and precisely such a principle as would be held by the New England
Associators where learning had been almost a fetich and where education at the public expense
had its inception in the guise of charity schools. The principle only is expressed here, since
the land ordinance of two years before promised an endowment for public education as long as
enough land remained to lay out a county. The Associators carried out this principle in their
own tract by donating lands for a university and for the support of the gospel.

Immediately following the bargain of Dr. Cutler with Congress, the Associators prepared to
migrate en masse to their purchase. What the hardy spirits among the country people of the
South Atlantic States had been able to accomplish by individual initiative and sheer endurance,
the town-dwellers of the North Atlantic States did more systematically and rapidly by concerted
action. Organisation and government protection saved the Ohio Associators from such experiments
of colonisation as had frequently led to Indian captivities and abandoned settlements in Tennessee
and Kentucky. The project of a line of forts along the frontier settlements, conceived during
the Indian and Revolutionary wars, assumed shape after the first sale of public lands had really
been consummated. Forts McIntosh, Steuben, Washington, Harmar, Vincennes and Massac, were speedily
erected or garrisoned, thus guarding the length of the Ohio River, the pathway to the North-west.
By subsequent Indian treaties, additional reservations were secured and forts scattered throughout
the territory at portages and along the river highways. Under this protection, the Ohio Company
sent out its band of artificers to erect dwellings and a stockade for the first settlement.
Scarcely a year was allowed to elapse after the purchase until Marietta was founded on the
Ohio at the mouth of the Muskingum by the veterans of the Revolutionary War and their friends.
It was 170 miles down the Ohio beyond the outpost of civilisation at Pittsburg. Similar settlements
were speedily founded on other purchases and on the military lands.

The national governor and judges for the Northwest territory in due time created a set of laws,
established courts, and erected local governments. The latter was effected by applying the
county system, familiar to the people of the Central and Southern States, to the land survey
county, and by giving to the township, a unit in the survey system, some of the functions of
the New England town. By this happy combination, settlers from any part of the old States would
find a local government with whose forms they were to some extent familiar. The Symmes purchase
on the Ohio below the Ohio Company's grant was opened to settlement, as was the Virginia Military
tract lying between the two. Through Pittsburg, "the gateway of the west," came a throng of
pioneers to float down the Ohio to the land of promise. The United States forts protected them
on the northern or "Indian side" of the river. In 1786, no less than 117 boats were counted
passing Fort Harmar.

So rapidly did the people take possession of this heritage of the Revolutionary struggle that
within fifteen years the eastern part was ready to claim the promise of statehood. Eight years
later, this new State, Ohio, had passed in rank of population the older trans-Alleghanian States
of Kentucky and Tennessee. Blessed with contiguous waterways lying in the line of travel, forming
the gateway into the West by the down-thrusting arm of Canada, the first State to be created
out of the public domain, with definite land surveys instead of tomahawk marks, with an endowed
system of public schools, Ohio gained a political pre-eminence among the newer States and a
national prestige which has scarcely yet been rivalled.

The solution of the problem of the frontier was thus so easily and permanently solved by the
Central Government in its home-making policy that one scarcely appreciates the fear of Washington
and others interested in the back country lest it become a refuge for outlaws and banditti.
Mingling with the savages, it was feared that these outcasts would create a constant menace
to the advance of civilisation. Colonial governors had much difficulty in controlling the "lawless
banditti of the borders." The first settlers across the mountains were considered in England
as "uncultivated banditti" and as "fanatical and hungry republicans" and the "overplus of Ireland's
population." But he had no doubt that in time society would assume as much stability and regularity
in the remote West as it had done upon the coast of the Atlantic ocean.

At the time, the action of Congress called fresh attention to the attractiveness of the back
country and the possibilities there when population should warrant the erection of States.
Stanzas of Philip Freneau represent the feeling of the day:

  "What wonders there shall Freedom show,
   What mighty States successive grow.
   What charming scenes attract the eye
   On wild Ohio's savage stream.
   Here Nature reigns, whose works outvie
   The boldest pattern art can frame.
   The East is half to slaves consigned,
   And half to slavery more refined."

CHAPTER IV

FAILURE OF THE CONFEDERACY

Scarcely a failure of the Confederation Government can be found which does not lead in the
last analysis to the financial situation both during and following the war. Suddenly plunged
into the Revolutionary War, drained of ready money by the colonial system, possessed of no
mines, mints, nor any resource for securing a medium of exchange except an undependable paper
promise to pay, the people of the United States emerged from the war broken in purse and overwhelmed
with debt. According to Jefferson's estimate made at the time, they owed at least sixty-eight
millions of dollars. To this fruit of the war he added the four hundred millions of paper money
issued by the Federal and State Governments, estimated, in its depreciated condition, at about
seventy-two millions more of debt. The ragged Continental soldiers, frequently reduced to seven-tenths
of a pound rations, their arrearages of wages paid in Continental currency worth four pence
on the dollar, were now about to be discharged to return to their needy families carrying only
paper promises of the United States to pay. These certificates could be disposed of only to
brokers and that at ruinous rates. What was to become of a veteran who was disabled? Congress
had already authorised the several States to look up needy soldiers of the Continental service
and pay them five dollars a month, such sums to be deducted from the quotas assessed on the
several States to meet the general expenses. Seven States only had complied, and in these the
lists of needy ex-soldiers had been incompletely compiled.

Some soldiers held certificates entitling them to bounty lands in the back country under the
acts of 1776 and 1780, but had no means of journeying thither. Small wonder that mutiny threatened.

"Can you consent to be the only sufferers by this revolution," asked the insurrectionary Newburg
addresses, the work of those unwilling to see the army disbanded before being assured of receiving
justice, "and, retiring from the field, grow old in poverty, wretchedness, and contempt?

Eulogy has exhausted itself in praise of these Revolutionary veterans, who eventually permitted
their ranks to be disbanded, instead of joining themselves together illegally to obtain justice,
or subsisting themselves upon the country at large. Praise has not been withheld from their
general, the Virginia soldier-farmer, who, instead of taking advantage of the dissatisfaction
to put himself at the head of an insurrectionary force, chose rather to quiet rebellion and
to inspire confidence by his hopefulness.

No sooner had the war ceased and the army melted away, than it was found that peace had its
dangers no less than war. Released from the menace of war, the States felt no necessity for
paying their respective quotas of expenses to the Central Government, as they had done in varying
degrees since the beginning of hostilities. The year following the peace, they paid less than
a million and a half of the eleven million asked in previous assessments. Three States, it
was claimed, had paid comparatively nothing. Rhode Island and New Jersey, as if to add insult
to injury, attempted to pay their quotas in their paper money, which was not received at par
outside the States. Congress had no power of coercion. According to the second of the Articles,
each State in the Confederation retained its sovereignty, freedom, and independence. Congress
could only make impotent appeals. Governor Randolph, of Virginia, pictured the Congress as
saying to his State: "May it please your high mightinesses of Virginia to pay your just proportionate
quota of the national debt; we humbly supplicate that it may please you to comply with your
federal duties. We implore, we beg your obedience."

The financial confusion was increased because of the lack of a circulating medium. A mongrel
collection of coins could be found, passing at varying rates in the different States--English
pounds, shillings and pence, Spanish dollars, joes, half-joes, pistoles and moidores, French
guineas, carolins and chequins--but no United States coins. Even this money was soon drawn
off to Europe, because British exporters demanded cash until the Revolutionary debts had been
settled. That this cash would return to the States was unlikely if one judged from the first
year of the peace, during which the United States purchased 1,700,000 pounds worth of goods
in England and sent in return  only 700,000 worth. In order to secure some kind of money to
conduct business, seven of the States began to issue paper money. The troubles arising from
a depreciated paper during the Revolution were neither ignored nor forgotten; but no other
method presented itself. Congress had power to issue only "bills on the credit of the United
States," which were not likely to be more acceptable than other kinds of paper.

The hopelessness of managing a bankrupt nation, no doubt, was largely responsible for the deterioration
which the membership of Congress suffered. Names prominent at the inception of the rebellion
had disappeared from the rolls, and mediocrity ruled. The members personally experienced the
financial stringency in the failure of their State Legislatures to pay their salaries. Many
were dependent upon the patriotic purse of Haym Salomon, "a Jew broker of Philadelphia," as
Madison termed him. There should have been a higher standard of membership in the Confederation
Congress than in later times, because it comprised not only the usual legislative functions
of the nation, but the executive and judicial as well. The machinery itself was largely to
blame. Like many of the devices, that governing the Congress was too strongly set against centralisation
to allow free play of the parts. No delegate, for instance, was allowed to serve more than
three years out of any six lest his influence grow too great or he become unduly attached to
the central power. It frequently happened that good men were thus cast out of service just
when their experience made them valuable. Certain States forbade a man to serve two consecutive
terms in Congress. Madison was debarred by such a provision in 1784.

Delegates were appointed by the State Legislatures usually for a term of one year to begin
with the session on the first Monday of the following November. The term would frequently expire
when the State Legislature was not in session, and the State would thus go unrepresented for
some time. If a delegate pleaded the emergency of the case and asked that the rule be waived,
as those from Rhode Island did at one time, Congress refused to sanction such a palpable infraction
of the Articles. Cases actually occurred where delegates elect did not arrive at the seat of
Government until after the expiration of their term of appointment.

Absenteeism was the drag paramount upon Congressional action. No State could be represented
by less than two members and retain its power of voting. If only one representative were present,
he had no vote. If only two were present, they might differ, in which case the State was counted
as "divided," and the vote was lost. Congress once sent a plea to the States urging the necessity
of having more than two delegates present. It showed that if each State had only two representatives
in Congress, five out of the twenty-six delegates, being only one-fifth, could negative any
vote requiring the consent of nine States. Eleven States were represented at the time, nine
by two delegates only, and thus it was possible, continued the report, for three men out of
the twenty-five, being only one-eighth, to block all action. If three attended from each State,
it would require ten, or one-third of the whole, to have as much power.

The derelictness in attendance on some occasions was humiliating and even alarming. When Washington
appeared at Annapolis to resign his commission as commander-in-chief, only seven States were
represented by the least required number. He faced twenty-one delegates instead of the ninety-one
from the thirteen States, who should have graced this memorable occasion. The definitive treaty
of peace lay on the table at the time. Nine States were required by the Articles to be present
when a treaty was ratified. Unless ratified within six months after it had been signed in Paris,
it would be null and void. More than half the precious time had already elapsed. With the greatest
difficulty, the required number was secured. Four years later, there was no quorum for a period
of three months, the representation at times falling to two States. During the first eleven
months of the year 1788, a quorum was present only 129 days. Much of this delinquency was due
to the expense of maintaining the delegates which fell upon the individual States. To make
the burden as light as possible, two delegates only were commonly sent. They were likely to
disagree. Manifestly the State in which the Congress sat avoided this difficulty, because it
could maintain a larger number of delegates at less expense. To avoid this draft upon the needy
treasuries, some of the States adopted the expedient of choosing as representative a resident
of the city wherein was located for the moment the seat of government, or some man who had
the means and the willingness to serve without pay. During quite a long period, Delaware was
represented by three delegates, only one of whom was a resident of the State. This was in accord
with the custom of British representation. It is interesting to imagine the results if it had
ever become fixed in the United States.

It may be truly said that the framers of the Articles could not have expected a successful
continuous sitting of so large a body of men. They had not so planned it. The Articles provided
that a Committee of States could be appointed at any time, whenever the Congress as a whole
might wish to adjourn, by the delegates from each State naming one of their number to serve
in this capacity. This was the method of forming a "grand committee" on any important business
in Congress. The attempt to give over national affairs to a Committee of States was made in
the spring of 1784, after the peace. One trial of the expedient was sufficient. Only eleven
States were represented at the time. From these, eleven delegates were selected. According
to Monroe, "their powers are confined so that no injury can be effected." He referred to the
manner in which the Articles restricted the Committee. The eleven celebrated the beginning
of their administration by adjourning for three weeks, "for the benefit of the health of the
members." At the end of this vacation, nearly two weeks were consumed in getting nine of the
Committee together. A month of regular sessions followed, when suddenly the ever-present dissension
concerning the place of meeting broke out. The Southern members of the committee wished to
remain at Annapolis. The Northern members wished to adjourn to the cooler climate of New Jersey.

The strife increased until, at the end of two months, the members from New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
and New Jersey withdrew. Being left without a quorum, the remaining members signed a manifesto,
placing the blame on the seceders and departed for their several homes. Franklin compared the
action of the Committee to two lighthouse keepers who quarrelled about the task of filling
the lamp until the light went out. "There will be an entire interregnum of the federal government
for some time against the intention of Congress, I apprehend, as well as against every rule
of decorum," wrote the indignant Madison. During this interregnum, a chief clerk was acting
as Secretary of Foreign Affairs and General Knox was serving as Secretary of War. They were
the only visible parts of the National Government. Madison at first thought that the Committee
of States should be censured when Congress reassembled, but, recognising discretion as the
better part, suggested that "we had also better keep this affair out of sight." It was so done.
The complete failure of this Committee of States scheme as an executive makeshift was in the
end fortunate since it demonstrated clearly the need of a trustworthy and permanent head to
the General Government. If it had been even a partial success, it might have been tried again
and correction thereby delayed.

The provincialism of the day was well illustrated in the strife of the Committee over the place
of sitting. A similar controversy characterised well-nigh the entire life of the Congress.
Never a session could close or an adjournment be had without this Banquo's ghost appearing.
It was feared that the State in which Congress met would in some way get an undue influence
and ascendency. At one time, to satisfy sectional jealousy, it was compelled to provide two
places of meeting, Annapolis and Philadelphia, by turns. Cities were even projected in the
country far removed from State capital influence. In this unsettled condition, the Congress
wandered from place to place with insufficient accommodation. Van Berckel, arriving as minister
from Holland, could find no house for rent at Princeton and was obliged to live at a tavern
in Philadelphia. He contrasted his reception with that given by his Government to John Adams
a few years previously. He reported that he hoped in time to locate the new Government and
present his credentials. "Vagabondising from one paltry village to another," as Reed, one of
their number, put it, the members became a legitimate prey of boarding-house keepers and stablemen.
Small wonder that service in the State Governments was considered not only more dignified,
but more agreeable in these days of paramount State rights.

That the capital of the United States to-day occupies a territory independent of a State is
the result of sad experience in these early days. When Congress, in 1783, was driven from Philadelphia
by some rebellious State troops, who threatened force unless they received their back pay,
the village of Princeton was the refuge to which the members fled. Some faithful Continental
troops stationed there would protect them. The citizens of the village, grateful for this gift
of the gods, prepared a list of families and the number of guests each could accommodate. They
also adopted a long set of resolutions, deprecating the "gross indignities" offered to the
Congress at Philadelphia, and pledging with the utmost cheerfulness their lives and fortunes
to the Government of the United States. They promised to protect Congress "in whatever way
our services may be required, whether in resisting Foreign Invasion or in quelling intestine
Tumults." That the National Government of the United States of America should be offered protection
by a small New Jersey village is indicative of the progress which nationality had thus far
made. Sentiment would in time demand a permanent, independent home. Notwithstanding the prevalent
financial depression, small tendency toward economy was manifest among the people or its officials.
As long as credit held out, extravagance would prevail. The war had been successfully closed,
political freedom had been won, and individual ease and affluence presumably secured. Short-sighted
fashion viewed her immediate gratification as the concomitant of independence. Even the members
of Congress were not exempt from temptation. A Rhode Island delegate reported from Congress
sitting at Annapolis to the governor of his State:

"The horse races were attended here the week before last, and are all over, as are also the
balls, routs, fandangoes, and plays. I assure you there has been a merry Winter in this place,
according, at least, to accounts for I have seen but little of their diversions. I did not
even look upon the horse races, although they were to be seen from the windows in the back
room of the State House: nor have I attended a single play, although the theatre has been open
twice a week the chief part of the Winter, and the playhouse adjoins the house where I lodge."

Despite this virtuous conduct he did not escape a challenge sent by a fellow-delegate from
North Carolina and another from a Virginia delegate. He promptly laid both communications before
Congress and was further ostracised.

The Congress was a close corporation. The public was not admitted to its sessions, the debates
were never published, and the proceedings rarely appeared in the public prints. Its adjournment
of both time and place was so frequent and the beginning of new sessions so delayed that news
concerning it rarely found a place in the newspapers. This was in marked contrast with its
early history, when the assembling of delegates at Philadelphia was described in great detail
for those days. Internal dissensions marked the sessions, as indicated by the experience of
Howell, of Rhode Island, described by himself above. Members bore their obligations lightly.
It was said that at one time when a delegation of Indians arrived at Princeton to make a treaty,
a member left for Philadelphia to be married, thus breaking the quorum, and almost precipitating
an Indian war.

It is worthy of note that this experience with an executive-legislative- judicial combination
of National Government was sufficient to last for all time. Amidst the many changes suggested
for the Constitution of the United States since it has been in effect, none has ever been proposed
which would hand over the powers of the president to a Congress. Even Jefferson, alarmed by
the growth of the executive authority before 1800, never suggested a return to the method whereby
the whole administration was at the mercy of a quorum of Congress. The Confederate States in
1861, exasperated into secession by the abuse of the central power, retained the tripartite
form in the Government which they planned. Posterity learns by reading the lessons of history.

In the light of a later survey, one may discover many additional defects in the ill-devised
Articles of Confederation. Madison once summed up their vices in the failure of the States
to comply with the constitutional requirements, in State encroachments of Federal authority,
in State violations of national law and treaties, in States trespassing on the rights of each
other, in want of concerted action, in a lack of national guarantee against internal violence,
in a want of coercive power in the National Government and the omission of the ratification
of the Articles by the people. To these he added the multiplicity, the mutability, and the
injustice of many of the State laws. Jefferson, separated by his residence at the court of
France from actual contact with the worst days of the Confederation, thought the remaining
States had a right to coerce a recalcitrant member "by a naval force, as being easy, less dangerous
to liberty, and less likely to produce bloodshed." Yet a suggestion in 1781 for an amendment,
giving power to Congress to employ force in compelling States to obey the Articles, met with
no favour.

Monroe thought that the Articles were practicable and, with a few alterations, the best plan
that could be devised. Hamilton, on the contrary, regarded them as hopeless. Even before they
were adopted, he predicted a speedy failure. They were "neither fit for war nor peace," he
declared. "They show chiefly a want of power in Congress." Washington attributed the defects
made in framing the Government to too good an opinion of human nature.

"To vest legislative, judicial and executive powers in one and the same body of men and that,
too, in a body daily changing its members can never three great departments of sovereignty
should be for ever separated and so distributed as to serve as checks on each other."

He would even go farther in giving power to the Central Government. "As to the separate Legislatures,
I would have them considered with relation to the Confederacy in the same light in which counties
stand to the State of which they are parts, viz., merely as districts to facilitate the purposes
of domestic order and good government." Hamilton shared with Jay a willingness to take such
liberties with local rights to secure a more effective National Government.

Such sentiment among public men should have brought about a speedy amendment of the defective
parts of the Articles. But, as Washington once said, the people were not yet sufficiently misled.
Attempt after attempt was made to secure the necessary unanimous consent to an amendment. Congress
begged the States to give over to it the collection of an impost or duty for a limited number
of years or for a limited per cent.; to give to it authority to regulate foreign vessels in
American ports; and to refrain from levying discriminating duties among themselves. The unanimous
consent required by the Articles to make any amendment blocked these and all other proposed
reforms. Sometimes twelve States would agree, but before the thirteenth could be won over,
another would withdraw its consent. On one occasion, when Rhode Island alone held out, her
delegates in Congress wrote to the governor of the State that their "reasonable and firm stand
against the all-grasping hand of power in the case of duties had saved the United States!"
Connecticut protested that such an addition to the functions of Congress as the collection
of an impost would at one stroke vest that body with the power of the sword and the purse,
and leave nothing of the individual States but an empty name. Others argued that with 320 million
acres of land, which would bring an average of at least one dollar an acre, the General Government
needed no other source of revenue. Unanimous consent to an amendment could never be secured.
This was the lesson taught by the attempts.

Aside from the difficulties arising from the defects of the Confederation experiment, the disorders
in the national body were simply reflections of the turbulent spirit prevalent at the time.
Suddenly emerged from the restraining hand of a mother country, misinterpreting the meaning
of independence, confounding liberty with license, having lost the law-abiding sense in the
treatment of the Tories, grown only too accustomed to the pleasures of mob law, the people
were passing through the reassembling period which always follows a civil war. Peace is the
normal condition of a people; war is the abnormal. Restraint, taxation, and obedience, it was
supposed, had passed away with royalty and kingly prerogative. "Taxes and relaxed government
agree but ill," observed the laconic Jay. From South Carolina, Edward Rutledge wrote to him,
"It is really very curious to observe how the people of this world are made the dupes of a
word. 'Liberty' is the motto; every attempt to restrain licentiousness or give efficacy to
government is charged audaciously on the real advocates of freedom as an attack on liberty."

Visionists indulged their hopes of universal happiness. The rebellion which Captain Daniel
Shays, officer in the late Revolutionary army, headed in Massachusetts was aimed directly at
closing the courts and preventing the issuing of writs to sell mortgaged farms. But Knox wrote
Washington that the creed of the insurgents was that the property of the United States had
been saved from Britain by the exertions of all the people and therefore ought to be the common
property of all; and that they were determined to annihilate all debts, public and private,
and to have agrarian laws, which could be easily effected by the means of unfunded paper money;
and that this money should be a legal tender in all cases whatever. The madness had spread
to New Hampshire, Connecticut, and Rhode Island, according to Knox, embracing a total of twelve
or fifteen thousand "desperate and unprincipled men." Wild-eyed enthusiasts in Rhode Island
secured the passage of an "iron-clad oath" to the effect that paper money was as good as gold
or silver coin--"compelling people to embrace the doctrine of political transubstantiation
of paper into gold and silver," as Jay put it. The militia had to be called out in New Hampshire
to disperse a mob besieging the State Legislature at Exeter. "The mob clamoured," said a contemporary,
"some for paper money, some equal distribution of property, some annihilation of debts, some
rebate of all taxes, and all clamoured against law and government." The disorder spread to
Virginia. "In several counties the prisons and court houses and clerks' offices have been wilfully
burnt. In Green Briar, the course of justice has been mutinously stopped and associations are
entered into against the payment of taxes," wrote Madison to Jefferson in France.

Neither those who caused these troubles, nor those who wept over them, as did Mrs. John Adams
in France when news of Shays's Rebellion reached her, could foresee the blessings which would
follow; that these eight years of individualism were to form an argument for nationalism to
be handed down by intuition to future generations. At the time it seemed that nothing but a
miracle could save the Union. Jay was never given to exaggeration of thought or expression;
he must have been deeply impressed to write those words to Washington. "What a triumph for
the advocates of despotism to find that we are incapable of governing ourselves," replied the
equally conservative farmer of Mt. Vernon, "and that systems founded on the basis of equal
liberty are merely ideal and fallacious." To Jefferson in France, Washington confessed that
the General Government, if it could be called a government, was shaken to its foundation, and
that unless a remedy were soon applied anarchy would inevitably ensue. "The question whether
it be possible and worth while to preserve the union of the States must be speedily decided
some way or other." said Madison. "If some strong props are not applied, it will quickly tumble
to the ground." He thought he detected a propensity to return to monarchy in some leading minds;
but he thought that "the bulk of the people would probably prefer the lesser evil of a partition
of the union into three more practicable and energetic governments." Monroe, always inclined
to be suspicious of the Northern section, was "certain" that conferences were held in New York
between New Englanders and New Yorkers upon the subject of the separation of the States east
of the Hudson and their erection into a separate government.

Franklin, appearing in the midst of these disorders from his nine years' residence in France,
felt the necessity of counteracting the despairing feeling among the friends of America in
Europe and of checking the rejoicing among her enemies. He, therefore, filled his letters with
descriptions of American prosperity, crops, prices, and happiness. "In short," he wrote, "all
among us may be happy, who have happy dispositions, such being necessary to happiness even
in Paradise." At the same time, acting in his new station as president of the State of Pennsylvania,
he was endeavouring to arrest "a number of disorderly people" who had collected near the line
separating Pennsylvania and New York. "They are impatient of regular government," he wrote
in seeking the co-operation of the governor of New York, "and seize upon and presume to dispose
of lands contrary to and in defiance of the laws. Their number is recruited daily by vagabonds
from all quarters." The disorder arose from the long-standing controversy between Pennsylvania
and Connecticut over possession of the Wyoming valley--a dispute which the Federal Government
had been unable to settle.

The general public had long since lost respect for the National Government and its Congress.
Even Washington referred to it as the half-starved, limping Government, that appears always
moving upon crutches and tottering at every step. The chief difficulty was not to ascertain
the remedies needed, but how to apply them. As early as 1780, Hamilton had thought Congress
had the right to reassume the powers of sovereignty it had appropriated with the silent consent
of the States during the pressing times of the war; or, if the application must be external,
that the people might meet in a convention of delegates empowered and instructed to conclude
a new and effective federation. Few were ready to go as far as the impetuous Hamilton in thus
virtually overthrowing the "Articles of perpetual union" which were legally binding although
inefficient. To amend them according to their own provisions would be legitimate if it could
be accomplished.

This was considered by the majority of people the proper method; but when the experiment was
tried at Annapolis in 1786 of a meeting of commissioners to devise a uniform regulation of
trade and to report such an amendment to their States for ratification, only twelve delegates
could be gotten together representing five States. Even the State of Maryland, in which the
meeting was held, failed to send a representation. Each of the delinquent States had an excuse.

It can scarcely be said that the failure at Annapolis was either a surprise or a disappointment,
because few had expected success. "The expedient is no doubt liable to objections," said Madison,
one of the Virginia delegates, "and will probably miscarry. I think, however, it is better
than nothing." The object was unfortunately limited to considering the commercial friction
between the States and to regulating their foreign relations. The conviction had become general
that only an extended amendment of the frame of National Government could correct the difficulties
in the commercial functions and in many other needed particulars. The thought that the proposed
convention, if the proposition should be generally taken up, would include such a revision
of the Articles of Confederation, served also to soften the blow of the Annapolis failure.

CHAPTER V

REFORMING THE NATIONAL GOVERNMENT

The suggestion, emanating from the unsuccessful gathering at Annapolis, that a convention of
delegates be called from the several States to meet at Philadelphia the following year to devise
means for rendering the National Government adequate to its task, was supported most admirably
by the condition of the times. The Shays Rebellion in Massachusetts, its support in the neighbouring
States, and the disorder in Virginia and New Jersey, were moving arguments for immediate action.
Even Washington was forced to admit that the people were at last sufficiently misled. The National
Government, helpless to invade a sovereign State to suppress domestic insurrection, was compelled
to finesse in taking some steps to mobilise the militia by imagining an outbreak of Indians
in Massachusetts.

Led by the alarming situation, Congress, with unusual dispatch, took up the Annapolis suggestion
within five months after its receipt. But the feeling that the initiative should come from
the Congress itself rather than from an irregular convention led to the substitution of a motion
from the Massachusetts delegates in Congress that a convention of delegates should be held
at Philadelphia on the second Monday of the following May "for the sole and express purpose
of revising the Articles of Confederation" and reporting its suggestions to Congress and the
several State Legislatures.

During the spring of 1787, State after State took up the idea of a convention of the people
to correct the errors in the national frame. With rare discrimination, they chose, through
their State Legislatures, their leading men as delegates. All hope became centred in this apparently
last resort. The convention "will either recover us from our present embarrassments or complete
our ruin," said Monroe. That radical changes were necessary, many felt assured. Madison likened
the Government at this time to a ship which Congress kept from sinking by standing constantly
at the pumps instead of stopping the leaks which endangered her. He began to talk about "a
new system" before the convention assembled. In sending to Washington an outline study of all
prior confederated governments, he wrote, "Radical attempts, although unsuccessful, will at
least justify the authors of them."

Such sentiments were found to prevail generally among the delegates when, on May 25, 1787,
a majority of the States was represented and sessions begun in the Independence Hall in the
city of Philadelphia. Within five days it was decided to cast aside the deficient Articles,
to exceed instructions, and to frame a new National Government with separate legislative, judiciary,
and executive functions. To put new wine into old bottles was felt to be useless. No small
task confronted the convention in carrying out this resolution. Independence and the other
steps thus far leading toward nationality had been taken, as George Mason, of Virginia, said,
under a certain enthusiasm which inspired and supported its advocates; but to sit down calmly
to consider a project which might bring happiness or misery to millions yet unborn was an action,
which, he confessed, absorbed and in a measure suspended the human understanding. Robert Morris,
a delegate from Pennsylvania, begged his sons in France to offer a prayer for the success of
the meeting since so much of their future happiness depended upon it.

The lack of information on the work of the convention, which sat from May 25 to September 17,
1787, is frequently deplored. The deficiency is due not to indifference on the part of those
concerned, but largely to the lack of information given out to the public at the time and since.
In apologising to Jefferson for not sending a full account of the proceedings during the sessions,
Madison said: "It was thought expedient, in order to secure unbiassed discussion within doors,
and to prevent misconceptions and misconstructions without, to establish some rules of caution."
These rules, adopted early in the proceedings, forbade the inspection of the minutes by any
one not a member, prohibited the copying of any part of them, and enjoined the members against
disclosing anything said in the sessions. Dr. Manasseh Cutler, who visited Philadelphia during
the summer, went to the State House, but found "sentries planted without and within--to prevent
any person from approaching near--who appear to be very alert in the performance of their duty."
When he went to pay his respects to Dr. Franklin, a member of the convention from Pennsylvania,
the philosopher showed him a curiosity in the shape of a two-headed snake and fell to speculating
upon what it would do if, on meeting the stem of a bush, the heads should choose to go one
on each side of it. "He was then going to mention," wrote Cutler in his journal, "a humorous
matter that had that day taken place in convention, in consequence of his comparing the snake
to America; but the secrecy of the convention matters was suggested to him, which stopped him."

This secrecy was felt to be binding perpetually by many of the members. The secretary of the
convention, Major Jackson, who came to Philadelphia as private secretary to General Washington,
kept the official minutes. This book, by one of the final motions of the convention, was entrusted
to Washington, who had presided so conscientiously over the sessions that he did not allow
himself even the privilege of debating. In 1796, he deposited it among the public archives.
Until the year 1837, these minutes, with a few letters submitted by some of the seceding delegates
justifying their action, and the gleanings from eighty-odd private letters written by members
of the convention, constituted all public knowledge of the details of the meeting. But in the
year mentioned above, Madison's papers were purchased by the National Government, and among
them was found a number of little home-made books containing his priceless "Notes on the Convention."
In the introductory pages, Madison tells how he carried out his determination to preserve a
record of the debates for the benefit of posterity.

The changes made from day to day in the drafts of the Constitution, as recorded in the minutes,
are cleared up by the light of Madison's notes and become a series of compromises. They were
concessions made by superior to inferior factions, or sacrifices made by one section to satisfy
and quiet another. That the equal State representation in the Continental Congress, for instance,
had been one of the most pernicious parts of the Confederation machinery no one doubted. The
practice had been inaugurated in the first Continental Congress, as the minutes under Sept.
6, 1774, explain, because the relative importance of the colonies represented could not be
determined at the time. It was continued by default. But the arrangement bore no respect to
proportional representation. New Hampshire, Rhode Island, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, South
Carolina, and Georgia could combine and make a majority of the States and yet contain not one-third
of the people. New York and Connecticut might be added, making nine of the thirteen States,
but representing less than one-half the total population.

Notwithstanding this inconsistency in the old method, so strong was the fear of the smaller
States that their large neighbours would absorb or oppress them, that they took a decided stand
in the convention against all propositions to change to proportional representation. The Delaware
representatives were authorised to withdraw rather than submit to any arrangement depriving
the State of an equal vote with the other States. On the other hand, the large States, especially
Virginia, New York, and Massachusetts, insisted upon changing to representation based on wealth
or population. As a way out of the deadlock, after weeks of debate, two branches of Congress
were determined upon, in one of which membership and voting should be proportionate. Franklin
then proposed as a compromise that in one branch all bills for revenue should originate and
in the other branch the States should have equal vote. This adjustment between the large and
small States was considered the grand compromise, and its acceptance was a matter for common
rejoicing.

The solution of this problem immediately raised another. What was meant by "population," which
had been substituted for wealth as a basis of apportioning delegates in the popular branch?
Did it include slaves? The Continental Congress had long been accustomed in assessing the expenses
of the war to add to the quotas of the States a sum equal to three-fifths of the number of
slaves in each, on the ground that the labour of five slaves was equivalent to that of three
free men. This proportion was now taken both for determining representatives in Congress and
for assessing direct taxes. The States which continued to hold slaves would consequently have
the benefits of three-fifths of their slaves represented by additional congressmen; but they
must bear three-fifths additional of a direct tax, whenever one might be levied by the National
Government.

The questionable value of slave labour had already divided the Southern States into two economic
classes. Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia, because of the exhausting effects of tobacco upon
the soil, had attempted to restrict its cultivation by forbidding more slaves to be brought
in. The two Carolinas and Georgia, requiring fresh slave labour for their rice and indigo fields,
would not consent to any diminution of the supply. A compromise was at last effected in the
convention which permitted the importation of new slaves into the United States for the coming
twenty years. This was done by the votes of the New England States, where the slave-trading
vessels were generally built, added to those from the three Southern States. Against these
were New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, and Virginia. For some reason, the Maryland delegates
voted with the majority to keep the trade open. This compromise was strongly opposed by Gouverneur
Morris, a Northern man, who confessed that he would sooner submit himself to a tax for buying
all the negroes in the United States than saddle posterity with such a slavery constitution,
and by Madison, a Southerner, who declared that these twenty years would bring as much mischief
as an unlimited trade could produce. In accord with the practice of the old Congress, the delegates
decided to eliminate the word "slave" from the Constitution, lest it might cause offence and
beget opposition toward the new government they were about to propose. Milder terms, like "such
persons" or "persons legally held to service or labour," were substituted.

Many other adjustments were necessary to settle the Continental differences. By one of these,
the nation was given full control of commerce. By another, the matter of choosing a chief executive
was entrusted not to the people directly, because, as was said, they would be likely to be
misled by designing men; nor to the national Congress, because of the inequality of the Senate
and House representation; nor yet to the State Legislatures, because of the unequal sizes of
the States; but to a set of electors to be chosen by the States, a kind of substitute for these
various plans. The term of the presidential office was, after many debates, fixed at four years,
although an urgent minority wanted him to serve seven years and not be eligible for a second
term. In very truth it may be said that the entire document is made up of a series of compromises.

The twenty-three resolutions offered by Governor Randolph, of Virginia, are commonly considered
as forming the groundwork of the Constitution. With them were incorporated apparently six provisions
taken from the plan devised in a conference of the small States and offered by Paterson, of
New Jersey, together with twenty suggestions emanating from an individual member, Pinckney,
of South Carolina. Even the Virginia resolutions, although commonly ascribed to Madison and
winning for him the title, "Father of the Constitution," are modestly ascribed by him to the
series of conferences held by the Virginia delegates during the ten days they waited for a
quorum. "The resolutions," said he later, "were the result of a consultation among the deputies
of the State; the whole number, seven, being present. Mr. Randolph was made the organ of the
occasion, being the governor of the State, of distinguished talents, and in the habit of public
speaking."

Turning over the pages of Madison's "Notes," one may follow through committee and general session,
the slow evolution of the Constitution of the United States. The eager hands of the experienced
workers turned over the materials of old forms, rejecting parts hitherto tried and found wanting,
welding together familiar pieces brought from monarchical or colonial precedent, and constructing
a machine noted for practicability rather than for novelty. They were forced to use careful
workmanship because of the great variety of opinions. They were hindered constantly from rash
action by inherited prejudices and climatic differences. And they were conscious at the end
of having wrought, not perfectly, but as well as conditions would permit.

Experience was the fountain from which the Constitution-makers drew their "inspiration." A
novel creation, as a certain narrow provincialism in the United States is sometimes fond of
claiming for the Constitution, would have been an assembling of theoretical machinery, of untried
experiments, which could not have met the shock of being suddenly put into motion to replace
a broken down system. It could not have won back, solely on its merits, the confidence of the
discouraged people. If it had been "the most wonderful work ever struck off at a given time
by the brain and purpose of man," it could scarcely have withstood the vicissitudes of a growing
people for over a century, with amendment in four particulars only. More experiments and less
experience might have required the adoption of more of the fifteen hundred amendments which
have been proposed to the Constitution in these hundred years. Experience is a safe ground
upon which to build. Gouverneur Morris demolished a vast amount of eulogy when he wrote to
a correspondent in France that some boasted the Constitution as a work from Heaven, while others
gave it a less righteous origin. "I have many reasons to believe," said this matter-of-fact
man, who bore such a large part in recasting the phraseology of the document, "that it was
the work of plain, honest men."

As matter is not created in any of its forms, but simply assumes new combinations by its own
laws or under the guidance of man, so apparently new models in statecraft may be resolved by
analysis into old ideas in new combinations. The American Constitution is the English system
of government adapted to American soil through the intervening colonial and state governments.
The president is the king through the royal governor, but shorn of his prerogative, descent,
and perpetuity in the transition. The Senate is the House of Lords, with its permanency changed
into a long tenure of office by passing through the colonial council. To the same intermediate
State is due the power of appointment to office and of treaty-making which the Senate shares
with the executive, thus reviving the relation of the privy council, chosen from the House
of Lords, to the King. The House of Representatives is copied directly from the popular assembly
of the colonial government, which in turn was modelled after the British Commons. The right
of originating bills of revenue, which the Representatives possess, was preserved in many a
contest between colonial assemblies and royal governors. It is the birthright of Englishmen,
dating from the Petition of Right granted by Charles I., which substituted fixed taxes for
forced loans and gifts. The national supreme judiciary, the most novel of the three divisions
of the National Government, embodies in its appellate principles the Privy Council of England,
to which all colonists could appeal, and the later admiralty committees of the Continental
Congress, to which all cases of prizes seized in the war might be referred. The theory of a
state court of last resort had already found place in nine of the State constitutions and the
convention simply placed the capstone of a national Supreme Court on the top of the column.
Some parts of the colonial government were rejected as unfitted to the national frame. An advisory
council for the President, such as nearly every colony gave to its governor, was desired by
many but finally omitted. The present Cabinet really takes its place.

In like manner, it is possible to find British and colonial precedent, tried and proved, for
almost every provision of the National Government. The ruling class at the time it was framed
was composed of English and Scotch, trained in British forms of government. The Dutch in New
York and the Germans of Pennsylvania took almost no part in the Philadelphia Convention. It
is as useless to deny an English parentage for the American Constitution as to deny that there
were English colonies in America. So did the heirs of the ages avoid the mistakes of the past
by seeking the results of the law of the survival of the fittest. They form a strong contrast
with another people, less fitted by inheritance for self-government, who were at about the
same time entering upon the task of constitution-making. "It is somewhat singular that we should
be engaged in the same project for the same purpose," Franklin wrote to Chastellux, referring
to the Assembly of Notables in France and the Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia. "I
hope both assemblies will be blessed with success and that their deliberations and councils
may promote the happiness of both nations."

It so chanced that the very day the convention in Philadelphia had a quorum, the Assembly in
France, initiatory of the French Revolution, was dismissed. Both had met in the spirit of reform;
but to what different ends did the two movements eventually come! The Americans had in no case
attempted the impossible; had not hoped for the immediate dawn of the millennium; had not even
attempted to put into practice the loftiest sentiments of the Declaration of Independence;
and had carefully distinguished between the State as an agency for political and for social
rights. Very similar moderate sentiments on government had been carried to France by Lafayette,
the Lameths, Viscount de Noailles, the Prince de Broglie, and others who came to America to
take part in the Revolutionary War. Their influence produced the moderate French constitution
of 1791, which shows a marked resemblance to the American frame. That these principles were
suited to the American people is demonstrated by the rapidity with which peace and order were
established under them. That they were ill qualified for the French people was shown by the
early overthrow of the constitution of 1791.

The French constitution of 1793 and those which followed bore little resemblance to the American
frame. The influence which the American Revolution exerted upon the French Revolution had passed,
and the two movements bore no further resemblance to each other. The Americans had been content
with a rebellion against authority and a revolution which substituted old forms, or combinations
of forms, with new officials. The French revolutionists were not satisfied until they had tried
to change all existing forms and institutions. They would annihilate society, the church, Christianity,
even Deity itself. Precedent became a crime. The accepted system of weights and measures, the
calendar--nothing was too well tried to compete with innovation. In America, the rights of
man were eventually tacked on to the tail of the American Constitution as an afterthought to
conciliate the timorous, "a tub thrown to the whale," as the first ten amendments have been
called. In France, the rights of man overshadowed the working part of the constitution, delaying
essential details by their incorporation, and ultimately furnishing a pretext for interfering
with other peoples. When once the Americans had secured a constitution, they desired nothing
so much as to be left alone to work out their own destiny. When once the French had evolved
a system, with true propagandist spirit they wished to foist it on others. "With cannon for
treaties and millions of freemen as ambassadors," they demanded that the feet of all nations
should keep step with the march of what they deemed liberty.

The people of America seemed to wait with bated breath the conclusion of the deliberations
of the wise men of the nation met in convention at Philadelphia. Rebellion stood with hesitating
step, and warring factions tacitly declared a truce. The crisis was at hand.

"The names of the members will satisfy you that the states have been serious in this matter,"
wrote Madison to Jefferson from Philadelphia. "The attendance of General Washington is a proof
of the light in which he regards it. The whole community is big with expectation and there
can be no doubt that the result will in some way or other have a powerful effect on our destiny."

Even stronger conviction of the critical situation may be gleaned from the private correspondence
of the other members, bound by the pledge of secrecy from describing the turbulent scenes attending
the sessions. Daily had they seen the difficulty of reconciling the inherited animosity between
the Puritan and the Cavalier transplanted to America; between the Established Church and the
Dissenter; between commercial and agricultural interests; between a slave system and free labour;
between an urban population, accustomed to abide by majority rule, and a rural people, bred
to individual freedom and absolute home rule. They had to evolve a system satisfactory to people
scattered through thirteen degrees of latitude, with climatic differences arising from a mean
average temperature of forty degrees in the north and sixty degrees in the south. Such decentralising
tendencies were met with nowhere in Europe save under the strong hand of a monarch in Russia.
These climatic differences produced the frugal Northerner, who had to provide in advance for
the winter season, and the hospitable planter of the South, in whom prodigality was induced
by the very lavishness of nature about him. It was not strange that by contrast, and seen through
the haze of distance, the frugality of the North should appear to be avarice to the South;
while the hospitality upon which that section prided itself should seem to be prodigality in
Northern eyes. These bask differences could be reconciled by compromise, and that only temporarily.
Washington had summed up the situation when he declared that there must be reciprocity or no
union; that the whole matter could be reduced to a single question--whether it was best for
the States to unite.

Although Washington, as presiding officer, took no part in the debates, his influence in favour
of effective government must have had weight in the convention. Madison and Gouverneur Morris
bore the brunt of objections to a national system. Franklin, a victim of old age and ill health,
was allowed to read his speeches from his seat. Hamilton pleaded for a more effective system
early in the sessions, but his radical views undoubtedly militated against any plan he had
to offer. Two of the most influential members from the Southern States, Randolph and Mason,
of Virginia, refused to countenance the proceedings by their signatures to the document. Another
member, Gerry, of Massachusetts, followed their example. Luther Martin, a prominent lawyer
of Maryland, returned to his constituency to write a letter of protest against the assumption
of power by the convention in framing a new government when called together solely for the
purpose of correcting the old. Yates and Lansing, two of the three delegates from the prominent
State of New York, went home for the same reason. The third, Alexander Hamilton, withdrew for
a time in disgust because his efforts for an efficient central power produced apparently little
results. The sessions had, for the most part, representatives from eleven States only, Rhode
Island having failed to send delegates. Her refusal was caused by a conviction that the convention
would recommend taking away from the States the power to issue money and to collect duties.
Her fears proved true.

Outside the closed doors of the convention the public clamoured, declaring Star-Chamber sessions
an insult to the American people. All kinds of rumours prevailed concerning the probable action
of the convention. Some newspapers declared that three republics, an eastern, a middle, and
a southern, had been agreed upon, under the conviction that so numerous a people and so large
a territory could not be incorporated under one government. Still others passed the news that
the plan of the royal electorate of Poland had been adopted, and the second son of George III.,
Bishop of Osnaburgh, had been chosen king of the United States. An unofficial denial of this
rumour appeared in a Philadelphia paper. "We never once thought of a king," it said. "Benny
the Roofer" appeared in the prints in ridicule of Benjamin Franklin, who, it was said, was
endeavouring to construct a roof over the entire United States.

At last the only body, which has ever been called together in the United States to consider
a frame of national government, was ready to report and to adjourn. A new plan of government
lay on the table signed by thirty-nine of the fifty-five men attending the convention. They
admitted its defects, but agreed that it was the best frame that could be obtained at the time,
and resolved to throw themselves on the indulgence of their constituents. As much was confessed
in the explanatory and conciliatory circular, which they prepared to accompany the document
to the Congress and thence, they hoped, to the States.

"Individuals entering society," so the circular argued, "must give up a share of liberty to
preserve the rest. It is at all times difficult to draw with precision the line between those
rights which must be surrendered and those which may be reserved; and, on the present occasion,
this difficulty was increased by a difference among the several states as to their situation,
extent, habits, and particular rights.

Here was the voice of compromise, and of that conciliatory spirit, which alone can make union
possible. If the people at large would show the same indulgence toward each other, the experiment
would be given a trial. Assuredly, the members of the convention set them a good example of
toleration. "I consent, sir, to this Constitution," said the aged Franklin, in a paper read
by his confrere, Wilson, "because I expect no better, and because I am not sure it is not the
best." He advised that opinions on the errors of the document should never be carried beyond
the walls of the convention.

Gouverneur Morris confessed that the present plan had many objections, but, considering it
the best that could be obtained, he would take it with all its faults. The moment it went forth,
the great question, in his opinion, would be whether there should be a national government,
or not, and a negative reply would mean a general anarchy.

Washington, after his return to Mt. Vernon, sent a copy of the document to Patrick Henry, saying,
"I wish the Constitution, which is offered, had been more perfect; but I sincerely believe
it is the best that could be obtained at this time." The Revolutionary orator had refused to
attend the convention as a delegate from Virginia. He preferred the Articles with their imperfections
to an experiment. To Washington he replied that he could not bring his mind to accord with
the proposed Constitution. He would prefer to bear the ills they had than fly to others that
they knew not of. Harrison, a Virginia neighbour with whom Washington had also been associated
since the Revolutionary times, replied to the General in acknowledging the receipt of a copy
of the Constitution that he feared the remedy would be worse than the disease. Such sentiments
were not confined to these Virginia statesmen. It was evident that the victory for the new
government had been only half won in its formation and adoption by the convention. It had yet
to be accepted by the Congress and to be adopted by nine of the States before going into effect.
Great opportunity for a renewal of insurrection and faction would be offered by undue delay.

CHAPTER VI

ADOPTING A NATIONAL CONSTITUTION

The statesmen who had won the fight for a new form of national government in the Philadelphia
Convention lost no time in following it up through the various stages leading practically to
a plebiscite of the people. Madison returned immediately to New York to resume his seat in
Congress, where the first stand must be made. That body had been engaged during the summer
with the Ordinance of 1787, and the question of the navigation of the lower Mississippi. It
was feared that Richard Henry Lee, who had refused to be a delegate to the convention, might
make the Congress hostile to the new plan, or delay it until after the fall meetings of the
State Legislatures. Fortunately there was a quorum when Madison arrived from Philadelphia.
Through his personal efforts and private letters from influential men, the Congress in little
more than a week had accepted the report of the convention and transmitted it to the several
State Legislatures for their consideration. The members of the Legislatures in each State were
requested to call a popular convention to pass upon the new document, rather than to consider
it themselves. The Legislature is created to make laws and not to judge of constitutions. The
Articles had not observed this canon of political science, but had been adopted by the State
Legislatures. Less haste and more regularity were to characterise the consideration of the
Constitution.

During the nine months following the submission of the Constitution to the States, while the
necessary nine ratifications were being obtained, hope and fear alternated in the minds of
its friends. To Hamilton, success seemed so assured that he wished they had made the Constitution
"higher toned." Yet the struggle was likely to be arduous enough under existing conditions.
Since the word "Federal" had by common usage been applied to the national in contradistinction
to the State governments, the new frame was known as "A plan for a new Federal Government,"
and those who favoured it styled themselves "Federalists." Men were known as "warm Federalists"
before the discussion was a month old. On the other hand, Richard Henry Lee had attacked the
new idea under the pseudonym, "The Federal Farmer." His use of the word was entirely consistent
with the desire of the opposition to continue a federated instead of running the risk of a
consolidated government. As Gerry, an Anti-Federalist, complained later, an injustice was done
them by fastening upon them the word "Anti," when they were in favour of retaining the Federal
Government and the others wished to cast it aside and to establish a National Government. The
Federalists, in the light of the present day, would be called "Unionists"; but, being largely
city dwellers and having control of the presses, they were able to assume the less alarming
name of "Federalist," and to put upon their opponents the name "Anti-Federalist."

The war between the Federalists and Anti-Federalists was waged chiefly in the public press.
Sixteen editions of the Constitution in pamphlet form have survived to this day, in addition
to those officially struck off. An edition appeared in London. Another was printed in Albany,
New York, in the Dutch language. Pamphlets without number poured from the presses. Correspondents
occupied columns in the newspapers. When Governor Clinton, of New York, opened his opposition
batteries under the pen name of "Cato," Hamilton replied vigorously in defence of the new proposition
under the name "Caesar." When George Mason addressed his fellow-citizens of Virginia in a pamphlet
against the Constitution, he was answered by James Iredell as "Marcus." In other publications,
"Cassius," "Agrippa," "Sidney," and "Civis" filled columns, while "Plain Dealer," "A Columbian
Patriot," and "An American Citizen" withheld not their pens. Much of the rapid increase in
the number of newspapers and the betterment of printing facilities in the United States near
the close of the century may be attributed directly to these debates on the proposed Constitution.
The religious controversial literature of colonial days had now been replaced by political
composition.

Not only in the public press and in private letters did the Federalists further their cause,
but they did not hesitate at more cogent arguments. When seventeen country members of the Pennsylvania
Legislature ran from the Assembly in order to break the quorum and so prevent the call for
a State convention to consider the Constitution, the remaining members brought back two of
them by force. "When perceiving the other side to have an advantage, they play truant," said
Noah Webster, a New England pedagogue, who had gone to Philadelphia at this time to lecture
and to sell his new Grammatical Institute. "An officer or a mob hunts the absconding members
in all the streets and alleys in town." To be held in their seats and counted as voting affirmatively,
the recalcitrant members declared an outrage. The Federalists thought they deserved more punishment.
When the State convention, thus called, met in Philadelphia, two of its members, Wilson and
McKean, made such eloquent appeals for a trial of the new form that the auditors broke into
applause. The final vote of the Pennsylvania State Convention, forty-six to twenty-three in
favour of the Constitution, was looked upon by the Federalists as a vindication of their actions.
In the Maryland Convention, a majority of sixty-three refused to hear any compulsory amendments
proposed by a minority of eleven, on the grounds that they had been instructed by their constituents
to ratify or reject a constitution, not to make one.

The "Antis" soon found out, as "Antis" are wont to do, that opposing a popular movement was
an ungrateful, as well as an unpleasant task. Pamphlets issued by the other side called them
a junto of debtors, knaves, and worthless-moneyists. The Anti-Federalist members of the Massachusetts
Convention complained that they were pointed out and abused upon the streets. They also charged
that the moneyed interests of New York were trying to bribe the convention with large sums
of money sent to Boston.

When four hundred mechanics, or tradesmen, of Boston, in a set of resolutions, demanded a favourable
vote on the Constitution, and when Paul Revere marshalled them at the Green Dragon tavern to
shout for the new frame, the Anti-Federalists called out "Intimidation!" but the Federalists
disclaimed such intention.

Concerted action usually wins over individualism. The Anti-Federalists showed no such capacity
for united efforts as the Federalists displayed. For instance, Hamilton, with the aid of Madison
and Jay, wrote a series of articles for the New York press, calculated to explain the new government,
to enlighten the people, and to quiet their fears. Collected into the Federalist, they form
the best commentary yet written on the Constitution. Copies of the numbers, as they appeared,
were forwarded from city to city to be reprinted in Federal newspapers. Nothing was omitted
likely to impress the people favourably. Impressive ceremonies marked the ratification in each
State as the news was received. In Baltimore, a vessel, fifteen feet long, representing the
new frame, fully equipped and rigged, was drawn on wheels through the streets, then launched
on Chesapeake Bay, and navigated to Mt. Vernon, where Washington received it "as a specimen
of American ingenuity."

Even the muse of the Rev. Timothy Dwight was invoked to aid the Federal cause by begging that
all petty views be lost in a national horizon. Some of his couplets run:

  "Each party-view, each private good, disclaim,
   Each petty maxim, each colonial aim;
   Let all Columbia's weal your views expand
   A mighty system rule a mighty land;
   Yourselves her genuine sons let Europe own
   Not the small agents of a paltry town."

It was a unique warfare. Where a people of different inheritance might have appealed to arms,
the appeal here was to intelligence, argument, and the ballot. For nine months the struggle
went on among the citizens of the different States to determine whether they should abide by
the National Government they had legally adopted seven years before, or whether they would
exercise the right of peaceful revolution and cast it aside for another. It was a true revolutionary
movement, a turning upside down, in comparison with which the Revolution of 1776 becomes a
revolt against the King.

The opposition to a change in the national form of government, as shown in the debates in the
various State conventions, was based upon expediency among the masses and constitutionality
among the few. In the light of the dangers which have confronted the people during a century
of experience, some of the objections to the Constitution seem ridiculous. But the objectors
were sincere in their apprehensions, being just emerged from a despotic government, and jealous
of their hard-earned liberty. It was the old story of individualism fearing to trust its welfare
to the general body. That liberty is gained by entrusting liberty to an efficient government
is a truism which it has taken many years of self-rule to demonstrate.

There was a general cry among the opposition that the convention had exceeded its powers in
casting aside the Articles which it had been called to correct. In examining the details of
the new frame, some deprecated the large number of Federal officers thus created, who would
form a body independent of the States and fattening on the general treasury. Others feared
the concentration of power in the President, who would have control of the army, the navy,
and the treasury; others thought the number of terms he could serve should be restricted. Still
others criticised the six years allowed a senator. The saying was general among the opposition
that the individual had no protection from the General Government; no assurance that his property
might not be seized by it, his worship interfered with, and himself robbed of all those privileges
for which his English forebears had contended.

The keener spirits among the opposition looked above these details and saw a threatened consolidation
of the Central Government. "I stumble at the threshold," said Samuel Adams, on first reading
the document. "I meet with a national government, instead of a federal union of sovereign States."
Said a member of the first North Carolina Convention, "I am astonished that the servants of
the Legislature of North Carolina should go to Philadelphia and, instead of speaking of the
'State' of North Carolina should speak of the 'people.'" In the Massachusetts Convention it
was declared that "We, the people," created an actual consolidation of the States, and the
moment it was adopted would mean the dissolution of the State governments.

A few advocates of the new Government did not hesitate to admit that it was intended to form
an efficient government for the entire people of the United States, regardless of the States.
One of the two must be superior. In the convention, Gouverneur Morris had made this laconic
speech, "Mr. President, if the rod of Aaron do not swallow the rods of the magicians, the rods
of the magicians will swallow the rod of Aaron." However, the more politic endeavoured to quiet
the fears of the people by explaining that "We, the people," was simply the style or title
of the new form; that the powers given to the Central Government were entirely national ones;
that all the rest were reserved to the States; and that the people could easily change the
Constitution by amending it if they experienced any danger at any time from the central authority.

These words of the preamble to the Constitution, so pregnant of future interpretation, were
thus, from the beginning, a cause of alarm to a few minds. Patrick Henry seemed to feel presciently
that the later theory of an indissoluble union would be based largely upon this phrase, and
that the Civil War to preserve the Union would be justified by it. Yet its incorporation in
the document in that form was due purely to an accident. The Virginia plan contained no preamble.
Pinckney's plan, as given by Madison, began, "We, the people of the States of New Hampshire,
etc." When the first rough draft of the Constitution had been put together by the Committee
on Detail, during the eleventh week of the convention, and secretly printed for the use of
the members, the preamble began, "We, the people of the States of New Hampshire," etc. Six
weeks later, the revised draft was reported with the preamble changed to "We, the people of
the United States," etc. What caused the change to be made? Chiefly because the blank designating
the number of States required to put the new form into execution had been filled with the word
"nine." No one could tell which nine would ratify first and, therefore, no list of States could
be put into the preamble. A phrase covering all the people of the United States was substituted.
What slight chances give rise to arguments justifying the making of a nation!

Two factors were potent in securing the final success of the new plan. One was the provision
in the last clause by which the new frame could be amended easily. The unanimity which the
Articles required in order to correct a mistake had taught a valuable lesson. Three-fourths
was to be the maximum requirement hereafter. It is interesting to note that a unanimous vote
has never been obtained on any amendment thus far made to the Constitution. The other favourable
circumstance was the tacit understanding that Washington would consent to serve as the first
President, guaranteeing the perpetuity of the Republic by his past record. His fidelity had
been tested at the close of the Revolutionary War, when a devoted army might have made him
a Julius Caesar or an Oliver Cromwell in the chaotic condition of affairs. That he had returned
to his Virginia farm to become an active citizen was an assurance that he could now be trusted
with the vast powers conferred on the chief executive under the new plan.

The State conventions were not slow to take advantage of the privilege of proposing amendments,
and these the promoters were too wise to resist. Proposals to make amendments were non-committal
and harmless where the motto was "Anything to get the new plan in operation." Massachusetts
wished nine additions made, South Carolina four, Virginia twenty, New Hampshire twelve, New
York thirty-two, and North Carolina twenty-six. Of the 103 propositions submitted to the consideration
of Congress by the conventions, many were duplicates. Only ten were destined to survive. At
the time, they served as a machine of the gods to avert the dangerous proposition that another
convention be held to draw up a second constitution embracing the desired changes.

No one can read the acts of ratification in which these proposed amendments were incorporated
or added without being impressed by the fear of the States that they were hazarding their hard-earned
liberties in this experiment. It is easy to make light of them in the successful experience
of a hundred years. It is clear now that whatever precautions the States took would be swept
aside by the hand of necessity, and that later generations would repudiate some of the principles
laid down in their manifestos. It is useless to demand consistency in a growing body. How futile
for Virginia and Rhode Island, for instance, to declare that all power granted under the Constitution
proceeds from the people of the United States and that, whenever the same is perverted, it
may be resumed by them! Being adopted in State conventions and voicing the sentiment of the
people in these established groups, is it unlikely that they meant the people of the United
States as grouped into the several States precisely as they had formed and were now adopting
their Constitution? Yet a generation or two later, Virginia was to be told that she meant the
people of the entire United States, regardless of State lines, and in this opinion the people
of Rhode Island in that generation would join.

How useless for South Carolina to make as part of her ratification the precautionary statement
that no part of the Constitution should ever be construed so that the States might be deprived
of any power not expressly relinquished by them! How fruitless for New Hampshire to stipulate
that all powers not expressly delegated by the Constitution should be reserved to the several
States to be exercised by them! How profitless fate was to make the stipulations of New York
that Congress should never lay any kind of excise except on ardent spirits, and that the clauses
in the Constitution forbidding Congress to do certain things should not be construed into a
permission to do anything except that which was named in the document! Time was soon to demonstrate
the folly of attempting to place these barriers in the path of progress. Under such restrictions,
the new Government would have been as helpless as the old, unless new powers had been added
to it from time to time by the precarious method of amendment. Advancement must have been hindered
constantly by waiting on the slow process of adding provisions to the Constitution. Such crises
as the purchase of Louisiana, the suppression of domestic insurrection, and the adjustment
of the national finances after the War of 1812 could never have been met because of constitutional
limitations.

Several of the States incorporated in their acts of ratification a kind of political creed
of the inalienable rights of the individual. Although not intended as amendments or even as
conditions of ratification, they were supposed to be a kind of perpetual compact between the
State and the nation. They were modelled after the Bill or Declaration of Rights in some of
the State constitutions. Rhode Island, for instance, declared that "the rights aforesaid cannot
be abridged or violated and that the explanations aforesaid are consistent with the said Constitution."
Time was to show in seasons of national aggrandisement, during the reconstruction period, for
instance, how futile such State barriers would be in hedging about the national powers. These
sticklers for individualism and fearing souls could not see that the central clearing-house,
which the people of the respective States were creating, could not be confined to a few expressed
powers; that unseen situations and sudden emergencies would call for action not specified;
that to make a list of allowable acts in advance was simply an impossibility. In their alarm,
they failed to see that the individuals of which the States were composed would come in contact
more closely with local than with national affairs; that they would participate more frequently
in State than in Federal Government; and that this very participation for the regulation of
local affairs would perpetuate a fealty to the State which would guarantee its perpetuity within
its proper sphere. But, at the time, many agreed with Lowndes, who predicted in the South Carolina
Convention that despite all precautions the State powers under the Constitution would soon
be confined to the regulation of ferries and roads.

All anxiety about ratification ceased on the second day of July, the anniversary of the motion
for independence, when the favourable act of New Hampshire, the ninth State necessary, reached
Congress. The matter of arranging for putting the new Government into motion was referred to
a committee. In taking this action, the old Congress was sealing its death-warrant. It would
cease to exist, and be replaced by two houses of Congress under the Constitution. It had served
well its purpose. Called into life by the necessity of colonial co-operation in 1774, the Continental
Congress had gradually assumed sufficient power to bring a great war to a successful conclusion.
Deprived of much of this power under the Articles, circumscribed by the suspicious bounds of
State sovereignty, the Congress had become a thing of contempt. Not a member was now present
who had been among those assembled at the hall of the Carpenters' Association in Philadelphia
fourteen years before. Not a man now present was a signer of the Declaration of Independence.

Nevertheless the body assumed an unwonted activity in these, its last days. A quorum was had
during several of the summer months of 1788. The business of settling accounts between the
Confederation and the several States was actively carried on, and further arrangement was made
for selling the public lands in the North-West Territory. The form of levying quotas upon the
States, amounting to a million and a half dollars, was again gone through with. Since it was
unlikely that these assessments would be paid, John Adams borrowed one million guilders in
Holland for ten years with which to inaugurate the new Government.

A petition for statehood from the settlers in Kentucky, the second in the long list of additions
to the Union, reached Congress, accompanied by the consent of Virginia to the severance of
her western district. Since the time for the beginning of the new Government was so near at
hand, the petition was returned with the suggestion that it be renewed after that event.

The principal item of domestic expenditure was found to be that for supporting the United States
army of 595 officers and men scattered along the frontier. They were garrisoned in Fort Pitt,
at the head of the Ohio River; Fort Franklin and Fort McIntosh, between Pitt and Lake Erie;
Fort Harmar, at the mouth of the Muskingum; Fort Steuben, at the falls of the Ohio, now Louisville;
and Fort Vincennes, on the Wabash, now in Indiana. Also a force consisting of an officer, one
sergeant, and fifteen privates was stationed at West Point. To meet the expenses for these
troops, and also those for Indians and pensions, there was available in the domestic treasury
the sum total of $22,000.

The committee of Congress to whom had been given the arrangement for putting the new Government
into motion found that the election of senators and representatives was left by the Constitution
to the States; that the creation of the Federal judiciary belonged to the new Congress; and
that only the measures necessary for the election of a President were left to them. They therefore
set the first Wednesdays of the first three months in the following year for the three steps
of appointing presidential electors, having them cast their ballots, and for commencing proceedings
under the Constitution. These dates were adjusted to the meetings of the State Legislatures,
as Madison explained to a correspondent. No objection was found to this arrangement of time,
but the selection of a place in which to begin the new Government aroused the old sectional
fear and avarice, and precipitated a two-months' contest, during which New York, Philadelphia,
Baltimore, Wilmington, Lancaster, and Annapolis were considered. "The present seat of Congress"
was finally adopted largely through impossibility of agreeing on another.

Having thus planned for its successor, having arranged the finances, the army, the post-office,
the public land system, and other national affairs as best it could, the Continental or Confederation
Congress slowly dwindled in membership until it lacked a quorum early in October, 1788. A few
members attended at intervals until the beginning of the following March, when the thirty-nine
foolscap volumes recording the birth of the United States were closed, to be deposited among
the archives of the United States under the Constitution. A successor was now ready to undertake
the task for which the Confederation had been found inadequate.

CHAPTER VII

BEGINNING AN EFFICIENT GOVERNMENT

In the manner of its formation and adoption the Constitution was the product of a confederation.
In these respects, it was little in advance of the rejected Articles. Its strength lay in the
possibilities of its administration. But as a document in 1789, it was the product of federated
States. If all the people of the United States could have assembled and formed a constitution
to go into effect immediately, or even if delegates, chosen by the people of the United States
as a whole, had drawn up such a document, which had been adopted by the entire people or their
delegates in a ratifying body, there would have been a national sovereignty wholly independent
of the States from the beginning. Such a procedure was impossible--the very best reason why
it was not attempted. A pure democracy is possible only among a small number of people living
in a small State. For a large population and an extensive territory representative government
must be substituted. If the idea of government in the British colonies in North America had
been national instead of local from the beginning, the States would have disappeared under
the Constitution, or have been kept only for selecting national representatives, and performing
other national functions. An equipoise between the two could never have been reached. But fate
had ordained otherwise. In a new land, the settlers naturally gathered into little groups for
mutual protection. Collecting about some harbour or along some navigable waterway in the Northern
colonies, or assembling from the plantations at the centre of the parish in the Southern colonies,
the people instituted local government. Clusters of these units under home rule formed larger
divisions, and, in this way, union came as an afterthought resulting from contiguity and intercourse.
The States as colonies existed long before the Union. Individualism was born long before unity
in America, and gained a prestige which aggregation has required nearly a century to overcome.

The ease with which the various States formed their first constitutions and the ease with which
they corrected errors by substituting later frames, is an additional proof of their early efficiency.
No State had as much difficulty as did the nation in reaching a workable basis. It is true
that the national Congress first suggested State governments to the chaotic colonies, but they
did not authorise them. The colonies looked to the nation for a uniform suggestion, but neither
for sanction nor permission. Never for a moment did the members of the Continental Congress
assume that they were working independently of their States, but considered themselves subordinate
to the State assemblies. The States were always the last resort of Confederation days. The
story of the United States is largely taken up with the struggle of the States to retain their
early supremacy when that supremacy was menaced from time to time by new conditions.

Whatever destiny may have made of the later Union, whatever theories may now be indulged in
concerning the abstract Union the fathers made in 1789, the concrete Union which was put into
effect was the offspring of the States not only in the thoughts of the people, but it was even
dependent upon them for aid in several particulars necessary for putting it into operation.
Having no electoral machinery, the Union was compelled to ask the States to choose members
of both branches of its Congress. In electing its chief executive, it was obliged to give the
States sole charge of choosing electors for this purpose. A national election gradually came
into existence because the Union took this control practically away from the States. The Federal
Government was indebted to State agency for its first capitol, the Federal Hall, furnished
it by the kindness of the City of New York. It had not a foot of soil independent of the States,
State militia furnished the military escort for its President-elect, and a State governor,
Clinton of New York, with his staff, gave him official welcome to the State and national capital
combined. Even the oath given to the chief executive, an oath required by the national Constitution,
was administered not by a national official, but by the chancellor of the State of New York.

An independent national government such as time has given us, and such as would be formed in
the light of the present day, would not leave the method of choosing its presidential electors
to the whims of the several States. At the time, no other method was possible. The State machinery
was at hand and could be utilised. The national appliances had not yet been evolved. In some
States the size of the precincts made voting well-nigh impossible. Residents of Luzerne County,
Pennsylvania, must travel several hundred miles to the polls, according to Timothy Pickering.
Although the Assembly of Virginia placed a fine upon every qualified voter who failed to perform
his duty, and although the Federalists of Maryland offered a roasted ox at one polling-place
to attract voters, it is estimated that not more than one-fourth the men entitled to vote availed
themselves of the privilege. Many had been so recently enfranchised by the State constitutions
that they did not appreciate the right. Independence having been won, the details of government
failed to maintain civic zeal. In present-day elections, by contrast, as many as five-sixths
of those qualified to vote at national elections avail themselves of the privilege.

It must also be noted that State qualifications for freemen determined who should vote in this
first national election. In those States where the people voted, statistics show that only
three men out of every hundred of population could vote in this first presidential election,
where nowadays twenty men have that liberty. In some States, the people had no voice whatever
in choosing the President, because the State Legislatures decided that they were the proper
mediums to choose the presidential electors. The Constitution left the matter entirely in their
hands. In some States, the people voted for electors in fixed districts; in other States they
voted for a whole electoral ticket. This system of choosing a President through a set of electors,
borrowed from the method of electing a German emperor, was far removed from democracy. It showed
the distrust which the Constitution-makers felt in the intelligence and discrimination of the
masses. Irregularity marked the elections generally. Two factions in the New York Legislature
fell into a dispute over the manner in which Senators and electors should be chosen. It resulted
in that State being deprived of participation in the first election and in the first session
of the Senate. Before the next presidential election, Congress began to make regulations governing
the States in their conduct of this important matter, an innovation which grew until it culminated
in the election "force laws" of reconstruction days following the Civil War.

"The first Wednesday in March next shall be the time and the present seat of government the
place for commencing proceedings under the said Constitution." So accustomed had the people
grown to delays in public affairs, that a strict compliance with these provisions of the old
Congress would have been a surprise. The first Wednesday of March, 1789, fell upon the fourth
day of the month. At noon of that day, when the members constituting the two branches of the
first Congress under the Constitution assembled in the rooms arranged for their sessions in
the reconstructed City Hall of New York, there was no quorum in either House. Since eleven
States had adopted the new plan and each was entitled to two Senators, twelve members of that
body would be necessary to constitute a quorum. But only eight were present. These sent out
one circular letter after another to the delinquent members, begging their immediate attendance.
The condition of the roads at that season of the year and the inadequate means of transportation
can scarcely be imagined at present. Madison, because of poor roads between Montpelier and
Baltimore, missed the stage and lost two whole days, as he complained. However, one by one
the tardy Senators arrived, and on April 6th, over a month late, the Senate found itself with
a quorum. Even then there were only two members present from States south of Pennsylvania.
Having read their credentials of election, they proceeded to elect a presiding officer "for
the sole purpose" of opening the votes cast by the electors for President and Vice-President
of the United States. The latter, according to the new plan of government, would be their permanent
presiding officer. The choice for the temporary office fell upon Senator Langdon, of New Hampshire,
a member of the convention which had framed the Constitution.

On the 4th day of March, the new House of Representatives had only thirteen members present.
The Constitution required that they should be chosen by the people in the different States.
The State Legislatures were unable to monopolise the elections as they did the presidential
elections in certain States. Yet the people took little interest in this first congressional
election. Out of 3,200,000 people, probably not more than one hundred thousand voted. Until
some count of the number of people could be taken to secure a proportionate representation,
the Constitution had set an arbitrary number of sixty-five, apportioning them among the States
by a guess at the respective populations. Rhode Island and North Carolina not being in the
Union deducted six from this total, making thirty necessary for a quorum. Day after day, the
incomplete House adjourned. New members arrived at intervals until the first day of April,
when a quorum was had, just four weeks late.

As first formed, the House consisted of the following members: New Hampshire, 1; Massachusetts,
5; Connecticut, 5; New Jersey, 2; Pennsylvania, 6; Maryland, 2; Virginia, 8; South Carolina,
1. Other members arrived from time to time. More or less irregularity had marked the elections
in the various States. A protest soon reached the House from citizens of New Jersey claiming
that the four members from that State had not been legally elected. The polls had been kept
open in one district for two weeks, until closed by a proclamation from the governor. From
South Carolina came charges against a member that he had not been a citizen of the United States
the required seven years at the time of his election. Although a native of South Carolina,
he was being educated in Europe during the Revolutionary period and had returned to the State
after the close of the war, but before the adoption of the national Constitution. Contested
elections here find early precedents. In both cases the House declared the elections valid
and the members entitled to their seats.

Although the delay of nearly a month in securing a quorum in the new Congress was not alarming,
it was most unfortunate. Never had the National Government come so near abdicating in favour
of the State governments. There had been no sessions of the old Congress for the past six months,
although straggling members appeared from time to time. There was a national Board of the Treasury
wrestling with the problem of home and foreign creditors, but confronted with an empty coffer.
Jay was acting as Secretary of Foreign Affairs, and Knox was Secretary of War. There was positively
no other evidence of "The United States of America" except an "army" composed of a few soldiers
scattered along the frontier. Jefferson, Minister to France, wished a leave of absence, which
Jay thought reasonable. "But, my dear sir," he said, "there is no Congress sitting, nor have
any of their servants authority to interfere. As soon as the President shall be in office,
I will, without delay, communicate your letters to him." Madison foresaw contentions, "first
between federal and anti-federal parties, and then between northern and southern parties, which
give an additional disagreeableness to the prospect." John Adams pronounced the nation united
in nothing save the choice of Washington.

After quorums were secured, new problems confronted this National Government, feeling its way
without precedent. Only eleven States had come into the new agreement. The North Carolina Convention
had adjourned without action, and Rhode Island had rejected the Constitution by a popular vote
of 2708 to 232. Had a Congress representing eleven States the right, even if it had the power,
to legislate for thirteen sovereign States? Many felt that important questions like amendments
to the Constitution should be postponed until the United States were united in fact as well
as in name. Even eleven States were insufficiently represented. Delaware had only one Senator
and no Representative at hand. South Carolina had but one Senator present. The influential
State of New York, the home of Hamilton and Jay, the place of meeting of the new Congress,
was in the throes of a political "dead lock."

There was also no precedent for the workings of two branches of the National Legislature. Some
prophets of evil who recalled the difficulties in one House of the Continental Congress predicted
a double portion of woe under the new arrangement. It must not be supposed that a bicameral
system was entirely a novelty. The colonies generally had such a system and, on becoming States,
had adopted, with one exception, that form. It was true, as many recalled, that contests had
frequently arisen between the colonial council and the popular assembly, especially where the
former was appointed by the colonial governor. It was scarcely to be hoped that all friction
could be avoided between the two branches of the United States Congress. They possessed to
a large extent joint powers, and yet had individual initiative and control. A further difference
might arise from the variation of the constituency which they represented. The Senate was appointed
by and represented the States in their sovereign capacity, as the House of Lords represented
the pleasure of the British sovereign. The House of Representatives was dependent upon and
represented the direct interests of the people, as did the Commons under the British Constitution.

The Senate had the advantage of the prestige of the colonial council. When the day arrived
for opening the presidential ballots the Senate notified the House that it was ready, and the
latter obediently mounted the stairs to the small Senate chamber, where the ballots were counted,
disclosing a unanimous election for George Washington and a majority for John Adams. The Senate
immediately despatched messengers to notify these men to attend and be inaugurated. This feeling
of superiority on the part of the Senate was not diminished, as its members contemplated the
power of ratifying treaties and confirming appointments which they shared with the Chief Executive,
as well as the long tenure of office and permanent session with which the body had been endowed.
Because of this executive function, the Senate followed the example of the Continental Congress,
and refused to admit the public to hear any of its deliberations during the first five sessions.
It then yielded to public opinion and opened its doors when acting in its legislative capacity,
going into secret session only when exercising its executive powers. To counterbalance these
extraordinary functions, the House had only the exclusive right of originating revenue bills.

The necessary connection of the two Houses was recognised at the very beginning of the sessions
by the appointment of joint committees to prepare rules for conference on bills upon which
the two bodies might differ; to arrange for the transmission of papers; to dispose of the papers
of the old Congress; to arrange for the inauguration of the first President; and to provide
for the election of chaplains. Many of these matters common to both were easily adjusted. Two
chaplains of different denominations were to be appointed, one by each House, and they were
to interchange weekly. In this way Congress hoped to avoid the ever-recurring fear that one
sect might be patronised until it became the established church. But upon the apparently minor
point of the manner of transmitting papers from one body to the other a difference arose. The
joint committee reported to each House an elaborate method whereby the Senate should send a
bill or message to the House by its secretary. This official was to make an obeisance on entering
the House, and another on delivering the paper to the Speaker, a third after it had left his
hands and a fourth as he left the room. When the House sent up a bill to the Senate, it was
to be carried by two members, undoubtedly in imitation of the custom of members of the Commons
carrying a bill to the Lords. Precisely as many bows and at corresponding places were demanded
of these two members as the secretary of the Senate was required to make in the House. All
messages except bills could be carried up by one member, who should make the four obeisances.
As a return courtesy the entire Senate should rise when two members entered the room, or the
President of the Senate only, in case one member appeared with a message.

This exhaustive ceremonial clearly gave such superior standing to the Senate that it was rejected
by the House. Being recommitted to the joint committee, they reported a simple substitute whereby
any message should be sent from either House to the other by "such persons as a sense of propriety
in each House may determine to be proper." The messenger was to be announced at the door and
should communicate his message to the presiding officer. This in turn was rejected by the form-admiring
Senate. Finally the Senate sent notice to the House that if their members should bring up a
bill or message as originally provided, they would be received as first promised; but if they
chose to send it by another agent he must hand the paper to the secretary of the Senate, who
would deliver it to the President of the Senate. The House chose a messenger as their agent;
the Senate soon followed the plain example; and thus a simple custom was inaugurated which
has held to the present day.

The wisdom of providing some arrangement for a conference in case of disagreement between the
two Houses was manifest several times in the first session. Conferences were held on no less
than nine of the ninety-five measures passed. It is impossible, in the absence of reported
debates, to ascertain the attitude of the Senate toward the other branch. Maclay, the garrulous
Senator from Pennsylvania, whose diary is invaluable during these closed-door sessions, mentions
several instances in which the Senate coerced the House by threatening to hold up appropriation
bills. "It was a trial of skill in the way of starvation," he declares. The temper of the House
when contending for what it considered its prerogatives can be seen from the debates.

"I am an advocate for supporting the dignity of the House," said a member from New York, debating
a disagreement with the Senate, "and to me it appears somewhat inconsistent that we should
change our sentiments in order to conform to the amendments of the Senate.... If we are to
follow the Senate in all the alterations they propose, without hearing reasons to induce a
change, our time in deliberation is taken up unnecessarily."

On a similar occasion, when the tonnage bill was being worked out by compromise, a member from
Delaware hoped that the House would not recede from its position, "otherwise it might be considered
that the House was under the government of the Senate, and adopted their opinions without arguments
being offered to convince their judgments." A Virginia member "would rather lose any bill than
have the doctrine established that this House must submit to the Senate; yet, if it was done
in this instance, it would serve as a precedent in future decisions." In this slow manner,
and with frequent irritation, the two branches of the National Legislature adjusted themselves
to each other and formed precedents which have held for a century. The first measure to pass
both Houses, receive the President's assent, and become a law, defined the oath which every
officer of the National Government was required by the Constitution to take. It became a law
within two months after quorums were obtained.

The relations of the two branches to the Executive were not so close and, therefore, more easily
adjusted. No little credit is due to the very cool and conservative man who became the executive
head of the revived nation. Even the journey of the President-elect from his home to the seat
of government had been a continued ovation. It can be compared only with his progress to Cambridge
nearly a score of years before to take command of the Revolutionary army. In both instances
he was regarded as the deliverer of the country from a great peril. Possessed of probably the
largest fortune in America, he could not be accused, as were many of his compatriots, of mercenary
motives in his public actions. His freedom from personal ambition and selfish motive having
been tested in the tempting days of the war, he could be relied upon by the people not to betray
them in their extremity by any assumption of powers. Reputed to be a man of great self-control,
almost cold-blooded in his self-guardedness, having dwelt far removed from the partisan strife
pertaining naturally to populous centres, he would be careful in forming opinions, conservative
in actions, and unlikely to yield to the influence of faction or partisanship. A moral man
for that day, but neither a propagandist nor a zealot, he was unlikely to favour any sect or
establishment of religion--a danger against which every possible precaution had been taken.

Even while the electors were being chosen and were holding their meetings in the several States,
it was understood that Washington would undoubtedly be the choice for the first President.
Indeed, before the Constitution had been fully formed, Hamilton and others were naming him.
In the State conventions which considered the new form, speakers did not hesitate to predict
his election. The assurance that the dreaded power would be first entrusted to his hands to
form precedents persuaded many to try the change. John Adams, recently returned from representing
his Government in Great Britain, and finding himself chosen to the second place, was said to
be unable to comprehend how Washington's military experience had fitted him for this civic
duty. Yet it was simply the first of many instances in which the gratitude of the people, backed
by innate hero-worship, has singled out a war hero for the highest civic honours. Hence it
came about that the very unanimity of election, for which all had hoped, defeated the purpose
of the framers of the Constitution to have an unbiassed selection made by the presidential
electors. This, or a like cause, has thwarted the purpose in every succeeding election of a
President.

Considering the descent of the American people at that time, it is not surprising that the
inauguration of the first President was copied largely from the inauguration of a British sovereign.
Our fathers were not attempting to experiment with novelties of government, but to adapt tried
methods to their needs. The trappings of royalty to be seen in an ancient kingdom were replaced
in this Republic by a military display, significant of the means by which its birthright had
been won. The royal procession from Buckingham Palace to the Abbey was reproduced in miniature
in the escort of the President from the Osgood House, his temporary residence, to the Government
chambers. The religious and civic rites observed at Westminster Abbey were here separated,
the religious service being held at St. Paul's Chapel and the civic in the little recess or
gallery between two pillars which had been made by the architect in transforming the New York
City Hall into the National Federal Hall. The oath was taken upon a copy of the Bible by both
monarch and President. The shouts from the crowd in front of the Federal Hall in Wall Street
which followed Chancellor Livingston's cry of "Long live George Washington, President of the
United States!" were no less sincere, although coming from fewer throats, than the cries of
"Long live the King!" and "God save the King!" which proclaimed the homage of British subjects
to their monarch. The cannon in old Fort George, down near the Battery, could greet a President
as lustily as those in the Tower proclaimed a king.

But every departure from royal custom was in the direction of simplicity of detail. Instead
of being surrounded by nobles and courtiers, the President was attended by the committees on
inauguration from the Senate and House, by Vice-President Adams, Governor Clinton, and others.
The coronation feast in the palace was republicanised into a dinner at the residence of Governor
Clinton. The rich robes of the sovereign, to make which the resources of an empire were drawn
upon, were transformed into a suit of ordinary clothing made entirely in America. Instead of
being seated in an ancient chair endowed with kingly legend, the American President stood during
the short ceremony. Instead of being administered by the Archbishop of Canterbury, the oath
was given to him by the Chancellor of the State of New York. The fair and festivities which
commonly ended the first day of a new monarch were changed into an illumination of the city
of New York and a display of fireworks.

The ceremonies between the new President and the Congress bore an even closer resemblance to
those accustomed to be seen at a coronation or upon the opening of a session of Parliament.
The inauguration speech of the monarch took the shape of an inaugural address by the President,
which confessed a lack of personal assurance and a reliance upon a Higher Power, called attention
to the benefits of government, and begged the co-operation of all concerned in it. The speech
from the throne at the opening of Parliament became a message to Congress at the opening of
each session. Like the king's speech, it was divided into a general address to both Houses,
and a special message to each. The attention of the House of Representatives was called to
various financial matters, as the English monarch had been compelled to do since the stormy
Stuart period.

Early in Washington's administration the Senate showed conclusively, by refusing to hear the
Secretary of War explain an Indian treaty, that the Cabinet was not to have the British privilege
of initiating legislation. Washington was compelled, consequently, to recommend to each branch
of Congress in his opening address such matters as he thought demanded legislation. It is the
only form of influencing Congress which has ever been given to the President, barring patronage.
On these State occasions, when opening Congress, Washington was accustomed to ride down to
the Federal Hall in the coach provided for him by Congress, with four instead of the two white
horses usually driven, and outriders in advance as well as the two secretaries who rode habitually
on horseback behind the coach. As was the custom in Parliament, a committee was appointed in
each branch of Congress to draft a reply to the President's address. In due time this was carried
by the Senators in solemn procession, headed by Vice-President Adams, to Washington's residence,
where it was handed to him. The more democratic House of Representatives contented itself with
presenting its reply to the President in a vacant room in the Federal building. To each of
these replies Washington was accustomed to make a counter-reply, thanking the members for their
courtesy and promising his continued efforts to secure the objects they suggested.

These forms and ceremonials, although copied originally from Britain, had been used in the
inauguration of colonial governors and in the opening of colonial assemblies. They furnish
a further proof that the American nation has been a thing of growth, an imitation of existing
conditions until such time as originality could be developed or imitations transformed to meet
the new conditions. Local forms furnished the models. They would be changed only as national
ideals were developed. The fact that most of these European ceremonials were lopped off within
twelve years shows how rapidly originality was developed.

During the first session Congress took up "the principal officer in each of the executive departments,"
as authorised by the Constitution. It was understood that these would be about the same as
had been developed during the preceding years, viz., Foreign Affairs, Treasury, and War. It
was not foreseen that they would become in time a "Cabinet." To these three departments Congress
added a fourth, Justice, for which an attorney-general was appointed. He was considered a head
of an executive department and ranked with the other three among the President's advisers.

The wisdom of the framers of the Constitution in simply arranging outlines instead of filling
in details was nowhere better shown than in the provisions for the national judiciary. Congress
was bound only to establish "one superior court" and could add such inferior courts as necessity
might demand from time to time. So essential was a national judiciary felt to be, that during
the pressing business of the first session the United States was divided for this purpose into
thirteen judicial districts, conforming generally to the eleven States in the Union, each to
have a district court held by a Federal judge. These districts were then grouped into an eastern,
a middle, and a southern circuit, in accord with the geographical grouping of the States. In
these two circuit courts were to be held each year by one or more district judges and one or
more justices of the Supreme Court. The latter, the final tribunal of appeal from these inferior
courts, was to consist of a chief justice and five associate justices. Necessary officers,
such as marshals and clerks, were given to these courts, rules were formulated for their procedure,
and an act was passed at the next session defining crimes against the United States. A resident
of any State was by these acts made the subject of a new sovereign,--the United States of America,--liable
to be punished for treason committed not against his State, but against the nation; to be prosecuted
for piracy on the seas; for counterfeiting money, altering records, committing perjury in the
Federal courts, resisting a national official, or offering violence to a foreign representative.

The United States could now command some respect from the individual. The Union would also
assume a new dignity from being a judge instead of an arbiter between the States. No more would
such long-continued warfare as the territorial dispute between Connecticut and Pennsylvania
bring the Republic into ill-repute. This new judicial power extended to "controversies between
citizens of different States." Never again would the cumbersome machinery of Federal commissioners
to hear disputed claims to territory be called into service--a kind of Platonic lot-casting
phantasy--because the new national judiciary system covered "controversies between two or more
States." What powerful possibilities were given to the new Central Government in the provision
that the Supreme Court should have "appellate jurisdiction from the courts of the several States
in the cases hereinafter specially provided for." It would be found as futile to restrict the
cases in which the national court should have an appeal from the State courts as to attempt
to reserve all the powers to the States not expressly granted to the Union. In the haste necessarily
attendant upon suddenly putting the provisions of the new government into effect, no one had
the leisure if any possessed the foresight to consider the limits to which the Federal courts
might extend its authority in the light of interpretation. Even Jefferson later confessed that
this member of the Federal Government was at first considered as the most harmless and helpless
of all its organs.

The beginnings of the national judiciary were so modest that no one could have taken alarm.

State distribution of patronage was not such a criterion as in later appointments; yet the
department of Justice represented all parts of the country. Considered from a sectional point,
there seemed at the time little likelihood that the court would prove hostile to Southern individualism,
since it contained, counting the attorney-general, four Southern men and three Northern men.
District judges, attorneys, and marshals for the eleven judicial districts were appointed at
the same time. A joint resolution of Congress asked the States to give their jailers power
to receive and hold United States prisoners.

Randolph, the Attorney-General, had never come in contact with Lafayette and consequently was
not mentioned by Washington. This list of the chief administrators of the new Government must
have reassured Lafayette, as well as other friends of the experiment, who wished to see it
given a fair trial. They feared that the first administration might be given over to its enemies,
who would be inclined to decrease rather than to strengthen its powers. Before the elections,
General Lincoln had confessed to his former companion in arms, General Washington, his apprehension
lest "the Anti-Federalists would try to get into office men unfriendly to the Constitution
and so break it down, or men who would change many of its provisions at an early date." The
attitude of the President and of most of his Cabinet, it was well known, was in favour of an
efficient central power. John Adams, the Vice-President, had long been an advocate of a stronger
frame, and now made good his words by casting the deciding vote in twenty ties in the Senate,
every time in favour of centralised authority where there was any doubt involved. By one of
these close votes authority was given the President to remove an official without the necessary
consent of the Senate. The Constitution was silent on this point, and its decision favourable
to the Executive greatly increased the prerogatives of that office.

This summer of 1789 was a time of anxiety for the friends of the new Government. They could
scarcely hope that the new machinery had no flaw. At any moment an unforeseen defect might
bring the whole to a standstill. Friction fatal to continued happiness might arise between
the different departments of the General Government or between it and the component States.
The people of some section might refuse to be bound by the General Government. During the heat
of debate in the South Carolina Convention, a delegate had defiantly declared that his people
would not take part in the new Government, if adopted, if not compelled to do so by force;
unless a standing army which the new autocrat would possess should ram it down their throats
with the points of bayonets, like the Turkish Janizaries enforcing despotic laws. As time went
on and none of these calamities happened, a general confidence took possession of the people.
At last they had come into a time of general agreement which would allow the experiment of
self-government a fair test. Two States remained out of the Union, but time was expected to
bring them in.

CHAPTER VIII

SUMMONING THE GENII OF THE IMPLIED POWERS

Even before the executive part of the new Government had been initiated, Congress attacked
the most serious problem it had received from its predecessor. All were agreed that the chief
difficulty in carrying on the Revolutionary War had been the lack of sufficient funds. The
administration of the Articles of Confederation had been hampered constantly by the same need.
The nation was even now millions upon millions of dollars in debt. In order to pay the interest
on the French and Spanish loans it had been the custom for several years to borrow more money
from the Dutch bankers. This was accomplished with no little difficulty. From the same source
John Adams had secured funds with which to install the Government under the Constitution. The
President-elect had been compelled to borrow money from a neighbour at Alexandria to meet the
expenses of his journey to the capital to be inaugurated.

Public credit both at home and abroad was in ill-repute. To meet the foreign interest and installments
due in 1789, over four million dollars must be raised. "Not worth a continental," sighed the
merchant as he turned over a heap of depreciated Continental currency in a corner of his strong
box. "Acknowledgment to pay by the 'untied States,'" said the owner of a pile of worthless
United States certificates of indebtedness. His patriotic zeal in lending money to the National
Government in her hour of need now bade fair to ruin him. The veteran of the Revolutionary
War carried his half-pay certificate to the money-lender, glad to get even five shillings in
the pound for it. Holders of various forms of State indebtedness besieged their State authorities
for payment, rapidly approaching a point where they would welcome any agency which would get
them their due.

According to Madison, the Continental Congress had chosen such an unseasonable date as the
first Wednesday in March for beginning the new Government in the hope of levying a duty at
once which would catch the spring importations of goods from Europe. It was this purpose which
brought him to his feet in the House of Representatives on the eighth day of the first session
to introduce a subject which he declared to be of the first magnitude, and one that required
their first attention and their united exertions. This was the deficiency in the national treasury.
For a remedy, he had chosen an impost on certain imported goods.

Fortunately, an impost was not a novelty requiring time and instruction to secure. Imposts
had been instituted generations before to obtain funds for clearing the seas of pirates and
for making safe the merchant marine. Because of these laudable objects, imposts had come to
be regarded as a legitimate form of external taxation and as a means of raising a revenue to
meet the expenses of government. The American people had been familiar with imposts from colonial
times; they had been commonly levied by individual States since independence; and they had
been associated in thought with the National Government in the vain attempts to revise the
Articles by giving it this method of raising a revenue. "To lay and collect imposts" was indisputably
stated in the Constitution as a power of the Federal Government. All that was necessary to
do was to determine what goods should be liable to a duty and what the amount of duty should be.

Madison submitted for specific duties a fixed list of articles, which the Congress had determined
upon in 1783, at the time it was requesting the States to allow it to collect a duty. The list
was made up of rum, molasses, wine, tea, pepper, sugar, cocoa, and coffee. These were regarded
at the time as luxuries likely to be consumed by those able to pay the duty. Other imported
articles were to have an ad valorem duty. Madison had in mind, as he said, a productive tariff
to secure money for the bankrupt national treasury. If more money was needed, the rates could
be raised at any time. But early in the debate a member from Pennsylvania moved an amendment
adding a number of articles to the specified list. They included beef, butter, candles, soap,
boots, steel, cordage, nails, salt, tobacco, paper, hats, shoes, coaches, and spices. "Among
these," said he, in explaining his motion, "are some calculated to encourage the productions
of our country and protect our infant manufactures." At once, members from States which did
not produce these articles protested that the addition of an impost would keep out foreign
competition and make them pay higher prices for the goods. Other members from States which
produced articles in neither list were equally urgent in getting their special products added.
The tradesmen, manufacturers, and others of Baltimore sent in a petition "to the supreme Legislature
of the United States as the guardians of the whole empire," begging them to impose on all foreign
articles, which were made in America, such duties as would give a just preference to their
labours. The shipwrights of Charleston in a petition pictured their distress under the present
condition of trade and begged relief by proper legislation. Petitions soon followed from coach-makers,
soap-boilers, snuff-grinders, makers of mathematical instruments, manufacturers of sheepskin
trousers--in fact, nearly every form of industry wished to take advantage of this opportunity
to secure national where they had formerly been able to get only local protection. The members
of Congress described in their letters to friends the fish battles, the salt battles, and other
manifestations in legislative halls of the cupidity of mankind when opportunity is once presented.

In this way it came about that the first revenue measure in the first session of the first
efficient National Legislature brought the members face to face with the question of the purpose
for which government exists. The Declaration of Independence had declared it to be the securing
of certain inalienable rights with which men are endowed by their Creator. This French conception
of certain abstract and general rights had taken in British and colonial minds the very concrete
shape of property. It is scarcely just to say that even unconsciously the British people had
instituted government for the protection of property and invested interests; but it is within
the bounds of truth to say that a large part of the legislation of Parliament, in the formative
days of the American colonies, had been inaugurated with this end in view. With the abuses
of the monopolies granted by the mother country, the colonists were only too familiar. But
the principle had been inherited, and it had been put into practice in the shape of legislative
aid granted by colonial assemblies for the inauguration of various commercial and manufacturing
enterprises. Sometimes this assistance had taken the form of money; at other times, of a patent
or monopoly granted for a number of years. Petitions for such aid had been presented to the
Continental Congress at various times. It was not strange that they should appear in the new
Congress, as has just been described.

Political parties had not yet been developed, but the debates on this first tariff bill showed
a strong tendency to sectionalism, arising from the varied interests of an extensive territory.
It was a sectionalism which, if it prevailed, would tend to weaken the Central Government,
but, if overcome by compromise or force, would strengthen the national authority by the very
fact of the victory. At the time the differences of opinion arising from the various parts
seemed so irreconcilable that Madison frequently confessed his despair of getting any tariff
measure passed at the session; so early did the sectional interests appear, which were destined
later to threaten seriously the very existence of the Union.

If the distillers of Philadelphia, for example, petitioned for a greater discrimination in
the duties on rum and on molasses, the citizens of Portland, then in Massachusetts, assured
Congress that any duty on the latter commodity would operate injuriously and be attended with
pernicious consequences to all the New England States. Once entered upon, this protective policy
could not be stopped. By mutually aiding each other, members could get articles added to the
protected list more easily than the unorganised opposition could keep them out. By comparing
such co-operation with the united efforts by which the first settlers had cleared their fields,
the phrase "log-rolling" was invented. Thus it happened that the first import bill, intended
by Madison as a measure for raising revenue, was turned virtually into a protective-tariff
measure, and was so called in the preamble. Few realised the importance of the change at the
time. Madison called it the "collective" bill, and wrote to a friend that it had cost much
trouble to adjust its regulations to the varied geographical and other circumstances of the
States. However unconsciously done, the principle of protective-tariff legislation by the National
Government had been adopted.

It is prophetic of the future to note that in this first debate a difference of opinion was
shown to exist concerning the proper function of government. One speaker cited the history
of the ancient world to prove that the protection of industries and the establishment of manufactures
was a very proper aim of government. Others held to a contrary opinion. Madison was among those
who thought that business should be left to take its natural course without government interference.
He said:

"I own myself the friend to a very free system of commerce and to hold it as a truth that commercial
shackles are generally unjust, oppressive, and impolitic; it is also a truth that if industry
and labour are left to take their own course, they will generally be directed to those objects
which are the most productive, and this in a more certain and direct manner than the wisdom
of the most enlightened legislature could point out."

This was the voice of the country member, unaccustomed to the fostering hand of government.
It was also the voice of the minority. The Constitution had been framed and adopted by the
commercial interests generally, who took quite an opposite view of the duty of government toward
business.

No one at this time seemed to feel the potency of the protective principle in enlarging the
power of the Union. It was unseen until fully developed some thirty years later. Yet to appreciate
the full force of this tariff bill of July 4, 1789, with its protective preamble, as a sample
of Union-making legislation, one need only consider the gratitude which the National Government
has won through such protective measures; the attachment of leading men to the Union from guarding
their interests; the accumulated strength of moneyed interests in time of danger to the Republic;
the use made of the tariff in protecting workingmen; the revenue derived from high tariffs,
which has been spent on public improvements; and the force of public opinion which has been
frequently rallied by both employer and employee to the support of the execution of a national
revenue law.

Above all members of the first administration, Hamilton stood for an efficient National Government.
He saw opportunity in the administration and interpretation of the written document to correct
the weak places which he had sought in vain to avoid when the frame was being made. A constructive
genius by birth, a financier by study, a leader of men by nature, Hamilton had, in the Treasury
Department, that function of the new Government which needed the most strengthening, and in
its present condition the necessity which would support the strongest measures. Called upon
by Congress at the time of its first adjournment to inform them of the exact financial condition
of the country, he drew up an exhaustive report showing that the National and State governments
together owed something like fifty-two millions of dollars. The national obligation to-day
is twenty times that sum. Its proportion to eighty millions of people is not much less than
the fifty-two millions were to the three and a half millions of people who faced the debt of
Hamilton's time. But the debt now is of fixed form and assured payment before it is incurred.
The debt which Hamilton presented to Congress was heterogeneous in form and without means of
payment. Arguing that a national debt properly funded had contributed largely to the prosperity
of Great Britain, Hamilton proposed to collect all these evidences of debt into a national
obligation, which would bring interest to its holders until paid. The faith of the United States
toward its creditors must be redeemed. To secure a revenue with which to pay this interest
and evidently to redeem the principal in addition to meeting the running expenses of the Government
was the first task. Hamilton proposed to place additional duties on imported goods and to lay
a tonnage on vessels using American ports, the latter of which he estimated would yield more
than a million dollars. He would also put an excise on distilled spirits manufactured in the
United States and on those imported, both bringing in nearly three million dollars. The profits
of the post-office he estimated at almost a million dollars annually, to be applied also to
the national expenses.

The members of Congress, at the subsequent session, with remarkable unanimity, concurred in
these recommendations of the Secretary of the Treasury for the redemption of the national obligations,
including both the debt owed to foreign nations and that incurred to domestic holders during
the exigencies of the war. But upon another proposition, that the United States should assume
the debts incurred by the several States during the war, there was strong opposition. It was
said that such action would lead to speculation and stock-jobbery in buying up these debts
and converting them into new forms. The original holders had long since disposed of them to
brokers, who would be enriched by national legislation. It was the old clash between the moneyed
and the moneyless classes. Although the action would be a direct interference of the National
Government with State affairs, the debates turned on economic rather than constitutional grounds.
If Hamilton had the foresight with which he is credited by his admirers, if he saw that the
allegiance of the people would gradually be won away from the States to the Central Government
because the latter was redeeming promises which the States had long been endeavouring to meet,
if he was taking advantage of the selfishness and cupidity of the deeply indebted States, there
is no evidence to show that the States saw or appreciated the danger.

Virginia, whose representatives bore the brunt of the opposition, had a source of revenue in
her western lands from which she could easily discharge her obligations, and naturally had
no desire to share the liabilities of others. But her State Legislature, after Hamilton agreed
with Jefferson to buy off the Virginia opposition in Congress by locating the national capital
on the Potomac, protested in strong and exact terms against the State-debts-assumption proposition.
These resolutions recited that the people of Virginia had adopted the Federal Constitution
under the impression and upon positive condition that "every power not granted was retained,"
and that they had read the document in vain to find the right given to assume the debts of
the States. Here, within two years after the adoption of the Constitution, was a State Legislature
protesting against the usurpation of power under it. It was the first of many futile protests.

Hamilton, sending a copy of the Virginia resolutions to Jay, saw "the first symptom of a spirit
which must either be killed or will kill the Constitution of the United States." He thought
the collective weight of the different parts of the Government ought to be employed in exploding
the principles they contained. Theoretically, the Legislature of Virginia may have been correct
in its attitude; but no theoretical protest could avail against the worthy sentiment that the
entire national credit must be restored, backed by the practical demands of the creditors,
and by the desires of those who saw an opportunity of investment or speculation.

Those people, both officials and citizens, who took the stand in these formative days of political
parties that the Federal Government should be restricted in its workings to the powers expressly
given to it in the Constitution, a "strict construction" of that document, as they called it,
were generally country bred, of the borrowing rather than the lending class, depending upon
individual initiative rather than mass action, strangers to the paternal aspects and fostering
hand of government, and inexperienced in the intricacies of finance. Gen. Henry Lee, of Virginia,
complained to Madison of the complexity of Hamilton's plan. "It departs," replied Madison,
"from that simplicity which ought to be preserved in finance more than anything else." Inability
to comprehend naturally breeds suspicion.

Hamilton's followers were, for the most part, from the Northern and Middle States, city dwellers,
money-lenders rather than borrowers, business men, and manufacturers, who saw no wrong in having
the Government promote the general welfare by legislation. The sudden revival of business which
followed the adoption of Hamilton's plan to redeem all the debts seemed to them both natural
and legitimate. The other group looked upon the entire matter as a corrupt transaction, contrived
by Hamilton, and a prostitution of government from its legitimate purposes. Madison wrote that
just before the report came out the value of the various forms of debt rose from a few shillings
to eight or ten shillings in the pound, and that emissaries were still exploring the interior
and distant parts of the Union in order to take advantage of the ignorance of the holders.
To meet the occasion Jefferson invented the phrases, "corrupt squadron," "stock-jobbing herd,"
and "votaries of the treasury," upon which he rang the changes during a long lifetime.

To this indignation was added dismay when the effects of national assumption of State obligations
began to be appreciated; when creditors who had besieged the State treasury for years found
the Union satisfying their just demands; when the evidences of national government, which had
heretofore been confined to a wandering Congress, began to appear at every hearthstone. A realisation
of these results brought from Jefferson the complaint that he had been duped by Hamilton in
the assumption-capital bargain; that he had been "most innocently and most ignorantly made
to hold the candle for a wicked scheme."

A similar aggrandisement of the National Government was the motive, according to the eulogists
of Hamilton, which prompted him to make a suggestion for another novelty, a United States bank.
Ostensibly he claimed that it would have the effect of bringing immediate financial relief,
as well as safeguarding the future. The arguments presented by him to Congress for the incorporation
of a bank in which the National Government should be a stockholder were purely utilitarian.
The bank would benefit the public by offering an opportunity for the investment of capital.
It would benefit the Government by lending it money in an emergency and by collecting its revenues.
Its notes would also form a circulating medium. The bill drawn by Hamilton incorporating such
a bank passed the Senate without material change and without a division. One Senator from Pennsylvania,
suggesting amendments to his colleague, was informed that Hamilton's father-in-law, a Senator
from New York, had said Hamilton did not wish the bill altered. The hopeless minority in the
Senate claimed that the chances of subscribing to the proposed bank, guaranteeing an investment
at six per cent, for twenty years, won many to its support. They also saw here another link
in the chain which Hamilton was welding about the States. The debts having been assumed, the
certificates would be accepted as subscriptions to bank stock. Thus one measure would be made
to play into another.

In the House, the right of the Federal Government to found a bank was attacked by Madison,
who here parted from Hamilton, with whom he had laboured in getting the Constitution adopted.
The line-up of parties had begun. Madison found himself opposed to the way in which the Government
was being perverted by Hamilton under the Constitution. His speech is the first extensive exposition
of the doctrine of strict construction of the written instrument; that the central power must
be held strictly to the powers numerated in the document. Strict construction exhibits the
vice of a written Constitution--the impossibility of growth or even continued life within the
bonds of the written word. Stagnation and death must result from binding the limbs of the body
politic. Loosening by interpretation is the remedy. Madison was correct in saying that the
right to incorporate bodies was proposed in the Philadelphia Convention and abandoned; that
the power to incorporate a bank was nowhere given in the Constitution to the Federal Government;
that banking was presumed to be a matter for State control; that in all the debates and papers
written on the Constitution it was understood that "the powers not given were retained; and
that those given were not to be extended by remote implications."

In reply, Boudinot did not deny that all powers, vested heretofore in any individual State,
and not granted by this instrument, were still retained by the people of such State and could
not be exercised by Congress. But he then showed that the power to incorporate the bank was
"drawn by necessary implication" from those expressed. Now to provide for the general welfare
it might be necessary to borrow money; a bank was essential to the borrowing of money in adequate
sums; therefore the power to establish a bank was deduced by the strongest and most decisive
implication.

Here was the first complete exposition of the doctrine of a loose construction for the wording
of the Constitution. If that be correct reasoning, said the opposition, the Constitution may
as well stop with the preamble, since there is no power under heaven which could not be exercised
within its limits. It would mean the consolidation of all powers, and the practical extinction
of local government. The attitude of the two sides in the debate may be shown by one illustration
employed. Suppose the power to make a treaty or to raise an army had been omitted from the
Constitution, asked the Hamiltonians, could the National Government in an emergency assume
such rights from the preamble and the powers expressed? Must it hesitate and temporise while
the blood of its citizens was being shed? Such an assumption of power, replied the strict interpreters,
might be excusable in an emergency, but could be warranted as a practice only by an amendment
to the Constitution made in the manner it prescribed.

The present situation and the compelling force which had produced it were manifest when those
who favoured giving the Union such implied powers as would make it effective pointed out many
instances of implication of which Congress had already been guilty; such as accepting land
for lighthouses, defining crimes under power to establish courts, and even creating corporations
in the shape of the North-West and the South-West territories. One of these lesions of the
written word, that which interpreted a clause so as to give the President power over removals
from office, Madison himself had favoured.

This first constitutional debate also outlined the geographical sectionalism which has penetrated
and influenced every feature of American political as well as commercial and social life. The
Northern and Middle States contained the cities, made up of the trading class, whose capital
was chiefly in ready money. The capital of the rural dwellers of the South was in land and
slaves, not easily converted into cash. The latter became the borrowing, the former the lending
section. The spirit of unionism was engendered in the first by reason of their urban life,
their commercial employment, and their frequent contact in business. The feeling of individualism
was as naturally bred in the latter by their rural surroundings, their agricultural occupation,
and the self-reliance induced by their solitary environment. The opposition to the Constitution
in Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New York, and Pennsylvania had been confined almost entirely
to the country. The rural States of Virginia, North Carolina, and South Carolina did not adopt
the new frame without a struggle. Georgia was a Southern exception; but population dwelt so
exclusively along the coast in the new State of Georgia that it was really a commercial State,
settled largely by New Englanders.

The mercantile class of the Northern and Central States, after Anti- Federalism had been silenced
by the success of the new Government, was ready to adopt the theory of loose construction or
interpretation by inclusion, which would tend toward the realisation of a more potent union.
At the same time, a bank, supported by the patronage of the National Government, with no danger
of competition for twenty years, offered not only a security for capital against such dangers
as it had previously known, but also, through its branches, an extended agency for transacting
business. Many details of the bill, such as the advantages given to holders of national rather
than State certificates in subscribing for stock, contributed to the sectional division. The
national certificates were held in the commercial centres. The influence of the city of New
York, where the Congress met, no doubt contributed to the passage of the bank and other commercial
measures.

Precisely the opposite feelings held in the Southern States. Every vote cast in the House against
the bank came from Maryland or a State to the south of it. There were a few scattering votes
from the Southern States in favour of the measure, but as a whole political lines were here
unconsciously drawn for a century to come, if not for the entire existence of the Republic.
The "court and country" parties of colonial days had been born again.

Many of the members were surprised to find sentiment toward these financial measures assuming
such a sectional trend. Sectional interests had been only too manifest in the convention, but
compromises had settled them, presumably for ever. Compromise is only a relief; it is never
a remedy. After each compromise in American history it has been a matter of surprise to the
participants that others were needed. On the bank bill, a member wrote to a correspondent:
"You may think it unaccountable, but so it is that the differences in climate seem to govern
the opinions on this bill, and Potomac seems to be near the dividing line with few exceptions."

Virginia was the leader of the section south of the Potomac, and Jefferson was the leader of
Virginia. Although debarred from the congressional debates by his Cabinet position, he filled
his letters to his friends with warnings against the dangerous assumptions of the Hamilton
measures. In response to Washington's inquiry to his Cabinet upon the constitutionality of
the bank, Jefferson drew up a paper setting forth in strong terms his opinion that the Central
Government had no power to engage in business. Hamilton presented an equally strong argument
for the bank in his reply.

Madison, the leader of individualism in the House, could not agree with Hamilton's interpretation
of the "general welfare" clause of the Constitution. The former co-labourers for efficient
government parted at this point. Madison thought the adoption of such an interpretation would
change the National Government from a limited one, possessing certain specified powers, to
an indefinite one, subject only to particular exceptions. The phrase concerning "the general
welfare" had been taken from the Articles, he said, where it was understood to be nothing more
than a general caption to specified powers, and had been retained because it was less liable
to misconstruction than any other. Whatever had been the original intent, the spirit of the
implied powers had been summoned from the vasty deep of uncertainty to aid in making a confederated
republic from confederated States.

CHAPTER IX

NATIONAL CENTRALISATION

No one can accuse Hamilton of failing to take advantage of these formative years in giving
the new Government a strong bias toward centralisation. Although opposed by Jefferson, Madison,
and Richard Henry Lee, Hamilton had the assistance of Knox, and frequently of Randolph, in
the Cabinet, as well as Fisher Ames and others in Congress. He also possessed the esteem and
confidence of the President, and the advantage which the commercial environment of New York
as well as the influence of the Schuyler family alliance could give him.

Among his numerous suggestions to Congress for cancelling eventually the eighty million dollars
of the national debt, to which business men of the Northern States were subscribing freely,
was an excise. Although this debt, the "Hamiltonian debt," as the Jeffersonians called it,
was an iniquitous burden saddled upon the common people, an excise was to them a most offensive
way of meeting it. Being for the most part agriculturists and country people, accustomed in
regions far from markets to manufacture their grain into spirits, they were not likely to be
persuaded that the consumer pays the tax in the end. It was a direct tax, and, although constitutional,
in form the most obvious and objectionable. To have an inspector prying into your private affairs
in this manner was in ill-accord with the freedom for which America stood. To put a tax on
a still and its product was to them equivalent to taxing their hand-mills and the meal or flour
thus produced.

Having secured the passage of the excise tax as a permanent source of income, Hamilton turned
to meet the most pressing national obligations. To pay the interest on the foreign debt, he
had arranged a loan from Holland. To provide money for circulation at home he revived the oft-repeated
project of a national mint, which should coin gold, silver, and copper coins of a decimal denomination,
the gold bearing a ratio to the silver of one grain to fifteen grains. This ratio he arrived
at by making a computation of the respective amounts of these two metals available in the world.
It is interesting to note that the ratio has changed but little in a century. Hamilton also
drew up an exhaustive report on the sources and conditions of American manufactures, with a
strong plea for the encouragement, by a protective tariff, of such industries as had already
been established.

The influence of Hamilton and the Federalist majority in both branches of Congress made possible
the adoption of these so-called "Hamilton measures" as rapidly as they were suggested by him.
They have been praised, and justly praised, because they restored the public credit of the
National Government both at home and abroad. The receipts for the first time met the expenditures.
Never before had the national resources been so adequately provided and so judiciously administered.
Hamilton's financial measures must also be praised because they first demonstrated the efficiency
of the new Government over the old form. They made the first serious inroads on the affection
which the people had uniformly bestowed upon the individual States. They mark great steps toward
the centralisation of the National Government at a time when they were most needed.

Nor did Hamilton, in his great constructive statesmanship, neglect the details of his department,
although a complete organisation awaited the painstaking Gallatin a few years later. The States
were divided into fifty-nine collection districts regardless of State lines except as they
suited the purpose. Each district was supplied with all the machinery necessary for collecting
the duties levied by Congress from time to time. Since the Treasury Department was so closely
connected with foreign commerce, Congress placed under its control all lighthouses, beacons,
buoys, and public piers, as soon as they might be ceded by the individual States in which they
were located and which had constructed them. At the time, no other disposition was possible;
but few foresaw the resulting effect upon the unification of the States. By another act, the
Treasury Department was given charge of the registration and clearing of vessels. A duty of
six cents a ton was placed upon the carrying capacity of American vessels, and fifty cents
a ton upon foreign vessels. The fondness for discriminating in favour of home interests was
manifested so early and in so many different directions that it could scarcely have been generic;
it must have been absorbed in the mother's milk of British colonialism in the eighteenth century.

The necessity for these measures was so manifest, and the popularity and the novelty of the
new Government at first so attractive, that little resistance was met with in passing them
and still less in enforcing them. Resistance to national measures and neglect of national duty
were no longer a menace to national existence, because the nation now possessed the power of
compulsion in a Federal judiciary. Upon the day named in the judiciary act, the first Monday
in February, 1790, the Supreme Court held its initial meeting in the court-room of the New
York Exchange, which had been prepared for its use. According to the newspapers "the jury from
the district court attended; some of the members of Congress, and a number of respectable citizens
also." Several meetings of the Supreme and district courts were held at this session, a seal
was adopted by the former, and several attorneys admitted to practice before it; but there
were no cases to be heard. The term closed with a banquet given by the grand jury of the district
court to the justices and officers of both courts at Fraunce's Tavern in Cortland Street. So
gradually did appellate and original cases find their way into the Supreme Court that three
sessions were held before it had a case on its docket. The legislative function of government
was, at that time, the most important and formed the basis of popular hope. Time has gradually
transferred this dignity and trust to the judiciary department, whilst the legislative--national,
State, and municipal alike--has lost in public confidence and esteem.

The Federal judiciary, as the most novel feature, was apt, in making a place for itself, to
come into conflict with older agencies. Within three years it gave a hearing to a citizen of
South Carolina, who had sued the sovereign State of Georgia on a money claim for damages. Although
the Constitution implicitly gave jurisdiction to the Supreme Court over controversies between
a State and citizens of another State, the Legislature of South Carolina refused to pay attention
to the suit, insisting that the retained sovereignty of the State could not be impaired by
a clause of the Constitution. By four to one, the justices of the Supreme Court held that South
Carolina, by the act of entering the Federal Union, was bound by all provisions of the Constitution.
Justice Wilson, of Pennsylvania, thought the question involved even a higher point--do the
people of the United States form a nation? Many commentators on the Constitution before its
adoption, including even Hamilton himself, in commenting on this clause had assured the people
that it was not rational to suppose a sovereign State could be dragged before the national
tribunal. Yet it had been done within three years after being put in force.

It is indicative of the prevalence of State-sovereignty feeling at the time to note the general
alarm caused by this decision. An eleventh amendment to the Constitution, forbidding a State
to be sued before the Federal courts by non-residents, immediately passed the Senate by a vote
of twenty-three to two and the House by eighty-one to nine. It was ratified by every State
except New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Tennessee. The speed with which this remedy was applied
gave confidence in amendments for the future. But the number of amendments must be endless
if each aggression of the judiciary was to be met in this manner.

The last toast at the judiciary banquet of 1790 was a wish that the convention of Rhode Island,
called for the early spring, would "soon introduce the stray sister to her station in the happy
national family of America." Rhode Island represented the extreme of selfishness resulting
from State control of commerce. Through her ports passed not only her own imports and products,
but those of the adjacent parts of Connecticut and Massachusetts. This geographical situation
of the State magnified her commercial interests, and made her unwilling to surrender them to
the Union. The country people were equally wedded to paper money, and opposed every suggestion
of giving over the right of issuing money exclusively to the Central Government. The State
fell into disrepute. "Rhode Island can be relied upon for nothing that is good," said Madison
in his despair. "In rebellion against integrity, plundering all the world by her paper money,
and notorious for her uniform opposition to every federal duty," was the character given her
by Governor Randolph, of Virginia, when by popular vote she refused to come into the Union
under the Constitution. Fables were composed which described twelve people desirous of building
a new house and hanging a recalcitrant thirteenth man by his garter to a limb near his cabin.
A "Southern planter" was reported to have offered the services of his slaves to aid in shovelling
Rhode Island into the sea.

North Carolina had also been late in assenting, but simply because her first convention was
turned from immediate ratification by the temporary delusion of holding another constitutional
convention to incorporate the proposed amendments in the Constitution. The general sentiment
of the country had pronounced against running the risk of another convention which was unlikely
to produce anything more acceptable. Hence the favourable action of North Carolina was simply
a question of time necessary to call another convention. This State was doubly assured to the
Federalists after favourable action in Virginia, to which she was closely bound by family ties.
The hope was well grounded, for the first act, passed by the second session of the new Congress,
in the autumn of 1789, was to extend the impost, tonnage, and other acts of the first session
over North Carolina, whose ratification, without amendments, reached New York during the adjournment.
Rhode Island was now the only recalcitrant. She still held out for individualism and complete
sovereignty. Had Congress a right or the power to coerce her into the Union? Whatever action
Congress might take was destined to become important in the later discussions upon the right
of a State to withdraw from the partnership now being formed. Fortunately, the opinion of the
House upon this point is beyond question. In the middle of the first session a motion made
by a member from New York to take up the case of the rebellious Rhode Island had been voted
down because it threatened a "delicate situation" for the House and was best left to time and
the State itself. Although the recalcitrant sister was a maritime State, "situated in the most
convenient manner for the purpose of smuggling and defrauding our revenue," nevertheless, as
Madison said, "it would be improper to express a desire on an occasion when a free agency ought
to be employed, which would carry with it all the force of a command." One searches equally
in vain through the correspondence of the men at the head of government for suggestions of
coercion. President Washington, although exasperated to a point where his Virginia temper declared
that the majority of the people of Rhode Island had bid adieu to every principle of honour,
common-sense, and decency, refused to send any message to the friends of the Constitution in
that State other than his hopes that the Legislature would call a convention.

Nevertheless, it was impossible long to continue such an anomalous thing as a foreign State
surrounded by the United States. The governor of Rhode Island had become alarmed and early
sent to the President and Congress of the "eleven United States of America" assurance of the
steadfast adherence of his State to the principles of the Confederation formed in the hour
of danger, and begged that they should not be considered altogether as foreigners. Although
Rhode Island was speaking a past language in such words, Congress by special enactment relieved
her from all duties except on rum, loaf-sugar, and chocolate until January, 1790. When that
time arrived, the governor pleaded for a renewal of the privilege, stating that the Legislature
had just called a convention to reconsider the Constitution. Waiting several months longer,
the Senate passed a bill by a vote of thirteen to eight to treat the goods of Rhode Island
as if coming from a foreign country and to demand from her a sum of money to be credited to
her account with the Union. In the midst of the consideration of this measure by the House,
further action was stopped by the arrival of the official ratification of the Constitution
by Rhode Island in a regular convention at Newport by the narrow majority of two votes. "This
event," wrote Washington to one of his European correspondents, "will enable us to make a fair
experiment of a Constitution which was framed solely with a view to promote the happiness of
a people. Its effects have hitherto equalled the expectations of its most sanguine friends."
Rhode Island escaped being coerced into the Union by an act of Congress; but she was coerced
by the higher law of self-preservation. Surrounded by States in the Union, cut off from the
natural channels of trade with them, she must have perished of commercial starvation in the
growing trade of the nation, if she had been subjected to the discriminations which Congress
placed on the commerce of foreign nations.

The adoption of an efficient government and the institution of a central control produced an
immediate effect on commerce. Interstate strife ceased. In eighteen months more than twenty
million dollars' worth of goods had gone abroad. Great Britain and her dependencies bought
almost one-half these American products and produce, with France a second. Then came Spain,
the Netherlands, Portugal, Germany, Denmark, Africa, the East Indies, and Sweden in decreasing
order. Even the northwest coast of North America purchased some ten thousand dollars' worth
of goods from the new republic. Tobacco, rice, flour, wheat, and corn were the chief articles
of export. Manufactured articles were of minor value. The total amount of iron sent out was
little over three thousand tons, as against three hundred thousand tons exported in 1900. Furniture
to the value of $8351 went abroad, of which $30 worth went to Spain and the remainder to the
West Indies.

During this same first fiscal year under the new Government, dutiable goods to the amount of
nearly seventy-four million dollars came into the various ports of the United States. Brown
sugar from the French West Indies led the list, molasses from the same source ranking second.
Tarred cordage from England came next, with coffee from the French West Indies, dried fish
from Canada, distilled spirits from the British West Indies, in order. This revival of trade
did much to quiet the predictions of those who still imagined the new Government must fail.
The second year gave them still less ground to stand on. It showed that the United States custom-houses
had collected over three million dollars on imported goods, the largest collections being in
the State of Pennsylvania, with New York second, and Massachusetts third. This was a larger
sum than had been realised from all taxable sources for the eight years preceding the Constitution
government. Nearly $150,000 had been realised from charging tonnage upon vessels entering and
leaving American ports. The future of the finances of the National Government was assured.
Those who had so long begged that the power of collecting duties might be given to it now felt
their judgment vindicated. The obligation incurred to France for loans and supplies amounting
to over ten million dollars, a debt of honour especially pressing, was being paid so rapidly
that by 1795 the entire balance was advanced and the obligation cancelled.

Prospects brightened for the future. "I sincerely rejoice in the prosperity of your country,"
wrote Hartley, from London, to Jay, with whom he had negotiated the peace of 1783. "You must
not expect to find it otherwise than checkered with good and ill; such is the lot of human
life. To be as happy as any people in the world is a lot you must not expect to exceed." In
reply Jay said: "Whether the United States will be more or less happy than other nations, God
only knows; I am inclined to think they will be, because in my opinion more light and knowledge
are diffused through the mass of the people of this country than any other." Brissot de Warville,
a French traveller, was impressed by the American vessels venturing to the North-west coast
for furs and peltry. Thinking that point not far from the head of the Mississippi, he predicted
that Americans would soon find a short intracontinental way to the Pacific. He also predicted
that these traders would soon open a new route between the Atlantic and the Pacific by the
lake of Nicaragua. "No sea is impenetrable," he said, "to the navigating genius of the Americans.
You see their flag everywhere displayed; you see them exploring all islands, studying their
wants, and returning to supply them."

External commerce was not allowed to monopolise the attention of the Americans, now at peace
with the world and themselves. The Constitution gave to the Central Government the exercise
and care of several functions heretofore left to the States. As rapidly as possible, a mint
was established to produce gold, silver, and copper coins. Laws punishing the counterfeiting
of the coin were passed. The existing military system was recognised and the postal establishment
with the routes and offices of the previous year adopted. The pensions paid to invalided veterans
of the wars by the States were assumed by the nation. Commissioners were appointed to treat
with Indians in the United States territories. Provision for making a count of the people was
made. Steps for the adequate protection of the frontier were taken. Commissioners were appointed
to lay out the capital city on lands granted by Virginia and Maryland. The provisions of the
Ordinance of 1787, modified to meet the new conditions, were re-enacted.

Of less importance than many of these functions bestowed by the Constitution on the Federal
Government, but even farther-reaching, was the indefinite power to "promote the progress of
science and useful arts" by encouraging authors and inventors. The right of an inventor to
a protection on his product had been saved from the monopolies so freely granted to companies
in the time of James I. It was one of the birthrights of Englishmen brought to the American
colonies. The right of an author to the benefit of his productions was allowed in the common
law. Colonial legislatures had been accustomed to encourage both authors and inventors by rewards
of money as well as by exclusive rights for a limited term of years. The Legislatures of various
States continued the practice after the Revolution, although there was no system of inter-recognition
of patents between the States. Fitch, the steam-navigation experimenter, secured exclusive
rights on his steamboat from Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and New York, and
even then was unprotected in the remaining States. This power so evidently belonged to the
national instead of State governments, that it was never questioned in the convention, although
it had not been included in the Articles of Confederation. Indeed, so essential was the necessity
for the development of home resources felt to be that at one time the convention had considered
transferring from the States to the Federal Government the general practice of "establishing
public institutions, rewards, and immunities for the promotion of agriculture, commerce, and
manufactures."

This paternalism was eventually confined in the Constitution to patents and copyrights. Within
a fortnight after the beginning of the House sessions, David Ramsey, the South Carolina historian,
petitioned Congress for the sole right to sell his books for a limited term of years. He was
followed by Hannah Adams, the Massachusetts writer, Jedediah Morse, the geographer, and others.
Instead of granting such petitions by individual bills, as the State Legislatures had done,
Congress enacted a general copyright law which gave to any applicant exclusive control of his
writings for fourteen years.

Simultaneously with the petition from Ramsey, which led to the first copyright law, came one
from John Churchman asking for exclusive right to sell spheres, maps, charts, and tables on
the principles of magnetism which he had invented after "several years' labour, close application,
and great expense." Soon after came requests for such rights from Fitch for a boat propelled
by steam, from Rumsey for one propelled by setting poles, and from Stroebel for another to
run on wheels without the use of oars. Other inventors asked for patents on a machine for raising
water to run a waterwheel, on one for making nails, for producing power by using a weight,
for curing the bite of a mad dog, for counting the revolutions of a wheel, for a reaper and
thresher, and for a lightning-rod on an umbrella. In the second session Congress passed an
act making the members of the Cabinet, except the busy Secretary of the Treasury, a board to
hear petitions and to grant sole rights to inventors for fourteen years.

The necessity for uniform action deprived the States of both copyright and patent control and
gave it to the central agency--powers trivial in themselves, but potent in the unforeseen work
of transferring the trust and gratitude of men of learning and ability from their several States
to the Union. "The encouragement of learning" is sufficiently indefinite to become a giant
by interpretation. This was apparent in the very first session of Congress. To his petition
concerning his magnetic maps and charts, Churchman had added a prayer for "the patronage of
Congress" in undertaking a voyage to Baffin's Bay for studying the cause of the variation of
the magnetic needle--a problem handed down from Columbus. The proposition was defeated in the
House, although only five to eight hundred dollars was suggested, because of the deranged condition
of the national finances. Only one member expressed a doubt as to the constitutional power
of Congress to do more than reward inventors by patents. Although the Constitution explicitly
confined the encouragement to granting of exclusive rights to the use of the invention, the
cause of defeat was not the lack of constitutional power, but the lack of means.

Washington, the friend in Virginia of every movement for the public benefit, showed no fear
lest Government assume too much power in this particular. Years before, he had voted in the
Legislature of his own State to give exclusive right to a stage-owner to carry passengers over
a road because "he had expended a considerable sum of money in the purchase of carriages and
horses ... which will be productive of considerable public convenience and utility ... and
therefore it is reasonable that he should possess for a reasonable time any emoluments resulting
therefrom." Once, in complaining to Jay that the Postmaster-General under the Confederation
had delayed the Virginia mails by using horses and showing an antipathy to patronising the
stages, Washington had said: "It has often been understood by wise politicians and enlightened
patriots that giving a facility to the means of travelling for strangers and of intercourse
for citizens was an object of legislative concern and a circumstance highly beneficial to any
country." Now, in his message to the second session of the First Congress, he took occasion
to suggest to the members "the advancement of agriculture, commerce, and manufactures," and
"the promotion of science and literature." These simple and, at the time, unsuspected phases
of paternalism must not be ignored in an examination of the growth of the Union. The most rigid
of the strict-construction Presidents became helpless before them, or never foresaw their possibilities.
From such small beginnings came the various scientific expeditions, the investigations for
the benefit of agriculture, the printing and distribution of books, the distribution of garden
seeds, the vast donations of land and money for higher education, and the many other ways in
which the Union has expanded under no other warrant than the simple requirement in the Constitution
that Congress "promote the progress of science and useful arts by securing for a limited time
to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries."
This was no new power given to the Central Government as was the right to encourage learning,
but it had even more possibilities of extension through interpretation. The monopoly of carrying
the mails, now generally claimed by all governments, may be traced to the assumed prerogatives
of the Stuarts in England. A few attempts had been made in the dependent days by individual
colonies to regulate the carriage of letters, but the provisions of an act of Parliament in
Queen Anne's reign for appointing deputy postmasters- general in the colonies placed the posts
directly under the care of the royal Government.

The use of the mails without government censorship was essential to the patriots in the American
Revolution for carrying out their plans. Nearly a year before independence, the Continental
Congress set up a revolutionary postal system to replace the express riders which they had
thus far used. Franklin, the colonial deputy for America, who had brought the posts to a high
proficiency before he was dismissed for sympathising with his countrymen, was placed in charge.
Gradually these "constitutional" post-riders and postmasters supplanted the royal officials,
and Congress in time inherited the monopoly. The Articles sanctioned this assumption by giving
Congress the sole and exclusive power over the transportation of the mails passing from one
State to another, collecting sufficient postage to pay for the same, but tacitly leaving to
each State the control of its internal postal system. So little did the postal system develop
under this arrangement that, with the exception of an extension fortnightly to Pittsburg and
the establishment of a few cross-lines, the main line in 1789, extending from Portland, in
Maine, to Savannah, Georgia, had improved but little since Franklin established it years before.
There were only seventy-five post-offices in the whole United States in 1789, and they collected
less than $40,000 a year.

So essential to the intelligence and happiness of the people did a well-regulated postal system
appear, and so properly an interstate agency, that no opposition was heard in the convention
to that clause of the Constitution which said: "Congress shall have power to establish post-offices."
In the second and in the final draft of the document the words "and post roads" were added,
by a vote of six States to five, without debate, according to Madison's notes. In the series
of papers now known as the Federalist, Madison, when attempting to quiet the fears of the people
upon the possibility of the Central Government securing too much power under the Constitution,
said of this provision: "The power of establishing post-roads must, in every view, be a harmless
power." Little could he foresee that within ten years he would be called upon by his great
chief, Jefferson, to decide whether "to establish" meant to lay out a road, to construct it,
or simply to adopt an existing one. Really, the carrying of the mails was a power not expressed,
but deduced, if fine distinctions were to be made.

Still another power was expressly given to the Union which had not existed under the Confederation
and had never been exercised--the right to create new States from original soil; to speak into
existence rivals of the agencies through which the Union itself had been created. When the
States gave this right to the Central Government, they furnished a weapon most deadly to their
continued supremacy. "No state shall be deprived of territory for the benefit of the United
States," declared the Articles. It was to guard against this danger that the States in ceding
their western land, and the Central Government in accepting it, had mutually agreed to convert
it into States of a limited size as rapidly as population would warrant. As has been shown,
unsuccessful steps had been taken under the Confederation to carry out this agreement, "without
the least colour of constitutional authority," as Hamilton said in the Federalist.

The law of balance, if not of retribution, finds an illustration in the manner in which the
fear of the States lest they give the Union too much power over the lands led eventually to
a greater loss of power. Their jealousy of each other prevented the land being held by any
one of them. They could not hold it severally, neither could they so dispose of it. When they
thought of converting it in time into new States, no workable plan could be devised for such
a disposition unless they acted jointly. The control had to be given to the Union. For these
reasons, the Union became the parent of all the States except the original thirteen and Texas.
It was inevitable that the sympathy of the people during the preliminary condition of a Territory
should be weaned away from the original States and their allegiance gradually transferred to
their benefactor, the Union. Unfortunately for State supremacy, the process did not end, as
then seemed probable, with the Mississippi, but was prolonged for a century by new accessions
of territory.

The new Congress had not long to wait for an opportunity of fulfilling the promise made almost
ten years before. In his second message, the President sent to Congress a petition for statehood
from an authorised convention of the people inhabiting the district of Kentucky, together with
a permission to that end from the parent State, Virginia. Both papers had been inherited from
the old Congress. As the President said, they contained "sentiments of warm attachment to the
Union and its present government." Such a happy termination of the sixteen years' contest between
the trans-Alleghenians and their parent State, as well as such a final contradiction to the
repeated rumours of the secession of Kentucky, caused the speedy enactment of a law "that upon
the aforesaid first day of June, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-two, the said new state
by the name and style of the state of Kentucky shall be received and admitted into this Union
as a new and entire member of the United States of America." A few days later it was decreed
in another simple law that Vermont should be admitted on March 4, 1791. New York, the parent
State, had agreed to release her on payment of thirty thousand dollars. Vermont secured the
prior admission because her application named no day, as that of Kentucky did. In the creation
of these two States, the nascent Union was not only adding to its strength, but was removing
for ever two of the most alarming cases of possible secession which had thus far menaced it.

CHAPTER X

FIRST LESSONS IN NATIONAL OBEDIENCE

Although the first years under an efficient form of national control were remarkably successful,
inspiring what was really the first confidence in the free government of America, it was not
to be expected that all difficulties were to be avoided, especially if the new form assumed
a vigorous and capable management. Heretofore domestic violence had threatened local government
only, because the national administration was too inefficient to come in contact with disorder.
If the National Government should now attempt to enforce its laws, the very action must sooner
or later bring it into conflict with recalcitrants in some section, as well as with the naturally
lawless. Even the understanding that local policing was to be left to local government would
not restrain an efficient national administration from meeting such a crisis vigorously. Indeed,
the action of the nation in such an emergency would determine whether it was at the mercy of
State aid and protection or whether it could care for itself.

If one were attempting to predict at what point of national administration rebellion would
arise, he would no doubt choose taxation. The hostility of the people toward taxation, possibly
engendered in the Revolutionary days, and exaggerated by human nature, has been described in
previous pages. One of the objections to the Constitution had been that the people could now
be taxed by two agencies, State and nation, thereby involving double taxes. The resistance
to the excise tax, which began to be manifest in a small way soon after its institution in
1791, bore a striking resemblance to the rebellion against the stamp-tax levied by Britain
upon the colonists a generation before. A tax levied on imported goods, collected at the ports,
quietly added to the original cost, and, therefore, a kind of external tax, is never so objectionable
as one paid directly out of hand, and hence an internal tax. So little in evidence is an external
tax that the people are sometimes beguiled into questioning whether the producer or the consumer
pays the tax. An internal tax, levied on distilled liquors, whiskey, rum, brandy, and gin,
was no more a novelty in the early days of the Constitution than was a stamp-tax in 1765. Being
accustomed to having it levied by the local government in each instance, it became objectionable
when laid by the superior power. Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Pennsylvania had used an excise
as a means of raising revenue. The people in the western part of the latter State had several
times resisted its imposition by the State Legislature, but the penalties imposed upon their
lawlessness had generally been remitted by the governor, and the law had been finally repealed.
"The Legislature has been obliged to wink at the violation of her excise laws in the western
parts of the state ever since the Revolution," confessed a United States Senator from that State.

The Constitution clearly stated the power of Congress to lay and collect both imposts and excises.
From the beginning of his reports upon available sources of revenue, Hamilton had suggested
a special impost upon imported liquors and an excise upon those manufactured in the United
States. He fully realised that the word "excise" was obnoxious to citizens who had migrated
from Scotland and Ireland, where the tax was imposed by a superior force, and in England as
well, where it had been known since Cromwell's day. To these people it meant not only a tax
on liquors, but on candles, salt, vinegar, and other forms of domestic manufacture. It meant
a license to own a gun, and to peddle small wares. Added to these inherited prejudices of the
Irish and Scotch-Irish settlers in western Pennsylvania against the excise was a local complaint
that they lacked roads for transporting their grain across the mountains to market and were
prohibited from floating it down to New Orleans both by the distance and by the hostility of
the Spanish. Their surplus produce must rot unless it could be manufactured into spirits which
could be consumed at home or carried to a market. A horse, it was said, could carry only four
bushels of grain across the mountains; but he could take twenty-four bushels when converted
into liquor. In that day, before the later temperance movements had created a different sentiment,
whiskey was regarded as a necessary article of food as much as beef or bread. The amount of
strong liquor used in the United States was estimated at two and one-half gallons per year
for every man, woman, and child.

Although the consumption of liquor in the uplands of North Carolina was almost equal to that
in western Pennsylvania, there were no such geographical causes for resistance to the General
Government's excise. It was seen by the Administration that opposition would be most likely
in the four western counties of Pennsylvania. That State had the most diverse elements of population.
Its colonial history had been marked by racial and factional contests. It was now to have the
unfortunate distinction of producing the first open resistance to the Federal Union. The disorder
at first took the form of mobbing and intimidating collectors, destroying the property of distillers
who complied with the law, and holding public meetings at which resolutions denouncing the
laws of the Government were passed. During the two and a half years that the insurrectionary
spirit increased, Congress twice modified the excise law in a vain attempt to conciliate its
Pennsylvania opponents, who demanded a total repeal of the tax. To check the General Government
the leaders of the insurrection threatened to secede, thus setting an early pattern for this
form of intimidation.

"I am induced to believe," wrote one of them, "the three Virginia counties this side the mountain
will fall in. The first measure then will be the reorganization of a new government, comprehending
the three Virginia counties and those of Pennsylvania to the westward, to what extent I know
not... Being then on an equal footing with other parts of the Union, if they submit to the
law, this country might also submit."

With such a spirit of combination against the Federal Government as these words indicated,
the supporters of the national power cast about to find what provisions had been made for enforcing
the national laws. The Constitution gave the command of the army and navy to the President;
but the peace establishment, on which the army had been put at the close of the war, placed
at his service an inadequate force. The necessity for economising, as well as the fear of a
standing army, had kept the army down to five regiments of infantry and one battalion of cavalry.
This force was required constantly on the frontier and could not be spared to suppress domestic
insurrection. In such a defenceless condition, the Union must turn to the militia of the various
States.

The Constitution had provided for such an emergency in a general way by making the President
the head "of the militia of the several states when called into the actual service of the United
States." Here was opportunity in working out the details for the individualists to protect
themselves against the unjust use of the militia by restricting the circumstances under which
it could be called into the actual service of the Federal Government. Unfortunately for them,
measures for the proper defence of the frontier were necessary from the beginning of the new
Government. Since the frontier lay so largely in the United States territories, its defence
belonged to that authority and not to any State. Under certain limits of time and distance,
the President had been authorised in various laws to employ State militia on the frontier.
The Secretary of War eventually drew up a plan for organising uniformly the militia of the
States into a national defence, believing, as he said, that "an energetic militia is to be
regarded as the capital security of a free republic, and not a standing army, forming a distinct
class in the community."

In drafting the militia law of 1792, in accord with the recommendations of Knox, the President
was authorised to call out the militia of any State "whenever the laws of the United States
should be opposed by combinations too powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary course of judicial
proceedings." This efficient clause was productive of a prolonged debate in each branch and
a conference between the two. Its opponents made various efforts to substitute the Legislature
of a State as the agency for calling out the militia, to require a previous notice to the President
from a justice that the laws could not be enforced, and to have a session of Congress intervene
before the President could march the militia of one State into another. The fear of giving
the central power an excuse for maintaining a standing army had led the framers of the Constitution
to incorporate a clause placing the militia at national service only for the purpose of executing
its laws, suppressing insurrection, and repelling invasion. Of these emergencies, Congress
was to be the judge. Should the dangerous authority now be given over to the Executive? The
long intermissions between sessions of Congress made such delegating imperative. The Shays
rebellion had left its lesson. Yet, according to one speaker, the measure seemed to suppose
that only the General Government possessed the power to suppress insurrections, whereas the
States individually certainly possessed this power and would execute it. Another thought it
an insult to the majesty of the people to hold out the idea that it may be necessary to execute
the laws at the point of the bayonet. "If an old woman," cried a disgusted member of the minority,
"was to strike an excise officer with a broomstick, forsooth the military is to be called out
to suppress an insurrection."

Finally, by a close vote in each House, the United States was given power through its Chief
Executive to call forth the militia of the several States. The action made a connecting ligament
between the national body politic and the arm of a widespread and always prepared force. The
militia proved most effective in preserving the sovereignty of the National Government in domestic
affairs until the regular troops were relieved from the duty of guarding the frontier. Unquestionably,
the measures pending at the same time for the protection of the frontier and the inquiry into
the defeat of General St. Clair in the North-Western Territory did much to hasten the passage
of the militia bill.

Being thus fortified against domestic insurrection and resistance to its laws, the decision
whether the new Government would be more successful in these particulars than its predecessor
depended entirely upon the attitude of its administrators. It was fortunate for the people
of the United States and the growth of the Union that Hamilton was at the head of the department
in which the first resistance to the laws occurred. A secretary less devoted to the aggrandisement
of the central authority, more careful of the reserved rights of the individual, or more temporising
by nature, might have attempted to check the well-known predilection of his chief for vigorous
enforcement of the laws instead of constantly urging him thereto. If Hamilton and Jefferson
had exchanged secretaryships, the story of the United States would have been vastly different.
Hamilton had time to time notified the President that his departmental collectors were interfered
with in the execution of their duties in the districts of western Pennsylvania. He wanted to
use the full force of the Government against offenders. "Moderation enough has been shown,"
said he. "It is time to assume a different tone." The spirit was spreading to other parts.
The Federal officials of both North and South Carolina warned him that the disaffection was
extending to those States.

From the standpoint of the Union it was also fortunate that a military man was President. Those
who criticised the choice for the Presidency of a man with military experience but no civic
training, and those who deplore a custom so frequently repeated since, may find here some benefits
arising from having a man with such an education. Very carefully the soldier-President felt
his way through his civic powers of coercion before using his military authority in this first
of several cases of preserving the Union against insurrection. There was absolutely no precedent
for the coercion of citizens by the National Government. The Federal courts had not yet come
into conflict with any considerable number of citizens of a State. But they extended as a judicial
network over the whole national domain. They covered every inhabitant. To them Washington turned
first. Although Attorney-General Knox decided that the insurgent meetings were not illegal,
several rioters were fined by the United States Circuit Court, special sessions of which were
held in Pennsylvania.

The President showed his appreciation of the delicate adjustment between State and national
authority by consulting the Governor of Pennsylvania at every step. If the State at this formative
hour had possessed an executive confident in himself and in his ability to suppress the disorder,
he might have done a lasting service to the preservation of the supremacy of the States and
forestalled the prestige which the Central Government was bound to obtain from its leadership
in this crisis. But Governor Mifflin was content to support the national authority, claiming
that the militia of his State was inadequate to the emergency.

In the summer of 1794, the disorder broke out afresh, extending to the spoliation of the United
States mail. The National Government dared hesitate no longer. Hamilton, by private letters
and public reports, urged the President incessantly to action. His unusual foresight saw the
opportunity for strengthening the nation. Weakness in the written Constitution might here be
remedied by the precedent of strong action under it. At last a Federal judge of Pennsylvania
notified the President that the laws could no longer be enforced in his district. Washington
immediately issued the required proclamation of warning, which had been penned by Hamilton.
Five weeks later, the Chief Executive called upon the governors of Pennsylvania, New Jersey,
Maryland, and Virginia for militia and issued a second proclamation commanding peace. He based
this action on the constitutional provision requiring the Executive to take care that the laws
be faithfully executed.

The seat of the National Government being at Philadelphia, near the rendezvous of the militia,
enabled the President to place himself at the head of the militia. No later President has interpreted
so literally his office as commander-in-chief of the army. As he reached Bedford, Fort Cumberland,
and other scenes of his campaigns against the French a half-century before, he must have compared
that errand with his present one. Then he was saving helpless colonists from a foreign foe;
now he was preserving a government from its own constituents.

It was also fortunate that Washington had passed through some instructive experience in Revolutionary
days on the disadvantages of an insufficient military force. To put down the small body of
insurgents in the western borders of Pennsylvania he called for almost thirteen thousand militiamen.
To a delegation of the insurgents who met him on the way to complain of such an armed force
coming to conquer them, Washington replied that although we had made a republican form of government
and enacted laws under it, yet we had given no testimony to the world of being able or willing
to support our Government; that, this being the first instance of the kind since the commencement
of the Government, he thought it his duty to bring out such a force as would not only be sufficient
to subdue the insurgents if they made resistance, but to crush to atoms all opposition that
might arise in any quarter.

Washington foresaw the effects of using the military power in behalf of the Union. Early in
the excise resistance he had declared that the Government must not use the regular troops if
order could possibly be effected without this aid. "Otherwise," said he, "there would be a
cry at once, 'The cat is let out; we now see for what purpose an army was raised!'" But individualistic
spirits who were alarmed at this new distortion of the Government toward centralisation feared
the results of using even the militia. Jefferson, having resigned his secretaryship and seeing
the unusually prominent part assumed by Hamilton in the expedition, protested from his retirement
at Monticello against such "employment of military force for civil purposes." To his mind the
disorder was simply a riot and not an insurrection. "Yet it answered the purpose," said he,
"of strengthening the government and increasing public debt and therefore an insurrection was
announced." Madison, who had at first looked upon the suppression of the insurrection as an
electioneering scheme, thought it fortunate for the lovers of liberty that the movement was
so easily crushed, since otherwise the principle would have been established that a standing
army was necessary to enforce the Federal laws. "I am extremely sorry to remark," he wrote
to Monroe during the ensuing session of Congress, "a growing apathy to the evil and danger
of standing armies." This remark was brought out by the failure of the minority, with which
Madison had now fully allied himself, to restrict the use hereafter of any militia to its own
State. A "Federal army," the bugaboo of the opposition, had been brought into existence by
this unwarranted use of the militia. Seven acts placing the military power of the United States
on a permanent basis and giving the Central Government efficient control were passed at this
session of 1795, the first fruits of the Western rebellion to be reaped by the Union. Madison
accounted for this legislation by the influence of the Chief Executive and the confidence of
the people that he would not abuse the power. What later Presidents might do could not be foreseen.

Outside the disaffected districts and with the exception of a few alarmed leaders like Jefferson
and Madison, the people undoubtedly sustained Washington in his firm action against rebellion.
An ode written for the birthday of the President in 1796 contains an allusion to his influence
in suppressing the insurrection:

  "When o'er the western mountain's brow,
   Sedition rear'd her impious head,
   And Tumult wild his legions led,
   Serenely great, the Patriot rose.--
   Yet in his breast conflicting throes
   Of mercy check'd the impending blows.

  "He view'd them with a father's eye,
   Dimmed by thy tear, Humanity!
   Reluctant Justice half unsheathed the sword.
   Scar'd at the awful Sight,
   Sedition shrunk in realms of night,
   And Order saw her peaceful reign restored."

Giving the Central Government sufficient military strength was not the only result of the first
open attempt to oppose it. Individualism had received a telling blow. The State was no longer
inviolate. Objection had been raised in the trivial matter of creating districts for collecting
the revenue because they disregarded State boundaries. It was now seen that the National Government
could and would march militia directly to a place of resistance regardless of State lines.
The people of the States were no longer safe from invasion by the power which they had created.
Not only a respect for the United States laws, taxes, courts, and officers was created by the
incident, but the fidelity of the militia, residents of different States, to the central authority
was assured. Jay was at this time on his celebrated mission to England to prevent war with
that nation, if possible. To him Washington sent enthusiastic accounts of the people turning
out to show their abhorrence of the insurrection. He said that some of the officers had disregarded
rank and that others had gone as privates. He told of numbers of men, possessed of the first
fortunes of the country, yet willing to stand in ranks, to carry knapsacks, and sleep on straw
in soldiers' tents with a single blanket on frosty nights. Evidently the spirit of Valley Forge
had not been lost. Five times the number could have been secured, he said, to preserve the
peace of the country. He also hazarded a prediction that the failure of the insurrection would
have a deterrent effect on the political clubs, which he blamed almost entirely for the inception
of the insurgent spirit.

CHAPTER XI

NATIONAL PARTIES ON FOREIGN ISSUES

The Democratic clubs, which Washington scored so roundly, and so unjustly as Jefferson thought,
were simply reflexes of one phase of the French Revolution. They serve to illustrate not only
how dependent America was upon Europe for political guidance and how strong was European influence
in America, but also that early parties were factions along social lines of cleavage rather
than divisions on national policies.

Caste is always a relative thing. The patriots who inaugurated and led to success the American
Revolution had been, generally speaking, of an inferior social rank to the Tories. Washington
is regarded as a striking exception. Yet his fame rested solely upon his early military record.
He was never a part of the gay life at Williamsburg. The royal governor was at the head of
the Court and set the social standard. The patriots, being opposed to him, were placed in an
inferior social position. But when once the governors had been driven out and the Tories had
been subjugated or exiled, the patriots became the ruling or superior class. Immediately a
new inferior class arose, hostile to the Administration. Thus it came about that Washington,
Hamilton, Adams, and Jay, the former democrats, were changed into aristocrats in the eyes of
Jefferson, Madison, and the present democrats.

The new democrats were in full sympathy with the effort made in France to abolish the nobility,
and imitated the Democratic clubs which were established there on the basis of "liberty, equality,
and fraternity." Having no nobility to abolish in America, they declared war upon such titles
as "His Excellency the President," or "His Honour the Mayor," and even "Reverend" and "Esquire."
These they would replace by a uniform "Citizen." Record is to be found of some twenty-four
of these local Democratic societies, scattered from Maine to South Carolina and westward to
Kentucky. Their object, as set forth by a Vermont society, was "the promotion of real and genuine
Republicanism, unsullied and uncontaminated with the smallest spark of monarchical or aristocratic
principles." They pledged themselves to the "utmost exertions to support the rational and equal
rights of man."

Like all movements depending upon enthusiasm, the Democratic societies went to the bounds of
extravagance. Taking offence at a tavern sign in Philadelphia, they were not content until
the proprietor had painted a red streak about the neck of Marie Antoinette to denote the work
of the guillotine. A waxworks in the same city drew large crowds to witness a representation
of the execution of Louis XVI. According to the advertisement, "The knife falls, the head drops,
and the lips turn blue. The whole is performed to the life by an invisible machine, without
any perceivable assistance." Children were admitted at half price. A bust of George III., which
had stood through the intense feeling engendered by the Revolution, was now mutilated. At Democratic
banquets, a boar's head, representing the head of Louis XVI., was passed about to be stabbed
by the guests.

The resolutions adopted by the local societies frequently concerned local grievances. The Kentucky
club protested against the Spanish claim to the exclusive control of the lower Mississippi,
and a club in western Pennsylvania paid its respects to the collection of the excise tax. Nevertheless,
it should be said that many societies in other States deprecated the resistance to the National
Government in that quarter. In view of this fact, Jefferson thought Washington unjust in attributing
the insurrection to the encouragement of the clubs.

There was a more practical aim in the associations than the adoption of resolutions. They hoped
to unite the local bodies in a national association which should bring the State and eventually
the nation into sympathy with France and her struggle for liberty. "France caught the divine
fire of liberty from us," said one society. "Shall we now withhold ourselves from her?" The
varying responses to this question brought about eventually the rise of political parties in
the United States.

Three well-defined periods have marked political parties in the Republic. The first epoch turned,
as indicated above, entirely upon the choice of sides in the war between France and England,
which followed the proclamation of the French Republic, September 21, 1792. The second period,
following the close of the War of 1812, the end of foreign dominance, was produced by differences
of opinion upon the constitutional powers of the National Government. It was foreshadowed by
several constitutional debates in the first period. The Civil War, by an appeal to the sword,
decided the majority of these constitutional doubts in favour of the Union. Since that time,
a third phase of party government has been developed, purely on grounds of expediency in domestic
and foreign control.

Political parties, therefore, are peculiarly dependent upon public opinion. They are creatures
of sentiment. They possess no power save that of persuasion as to the proper lines of conducting
the administration. Choosing positions on great questions largely from previous policy, they
must appeal to the people for justification and support. They live by opposition. No party
can exist alone. In their modern aspect, political parties were unknown in Revolutionary days.
Whig and Tory were simply reflections from the parties in England supporting or opposing the
Administration. There were divisions among men, largely of a social nature; "court and country"
parties, as John Adams called them in reminiscence. The royal governor, surrounded by his place-men
and followers, residing in the city and opposed by the rural element, represented the monarch.
The opposition became the patriotic party of the Revolution. After a decade, the patriots themselves
divided into Federalists and Anti-Federalists upon the advisability of changing from the Articles
of Confederation to the Constitution. These divisions were not political parties in the modern
sense. Neither developed any policy of administration or offered any candidate for office at
the time.

When the Constitution was finally adopted, the Anti-Federalists ceased their opposition. Since
the impetus of adopting the new Government was sufficient to place its supporters in power,
its enemies held off and awaited the day of failure when they should have the pleasure of saying,
"I told you so." In a few instances they made a demonstration, as when Patrick Henry, according
to Madison's belief, had Virginia redistricted in order to keep him out of the Senate. After
the new venture had passed beyond the experimental stage under the Federalist party, the name
"Anti-Federalist" gradually passed from use. As policies of administration were developed,
an opposition was bound to be formed, and thus modern political parties were born. A preliminary
line-up was caused by Hamilton's measure for a government bank; but the real cleavage was produced
by opposing opinions concerning the side which the United States should take in the war between
France and England.

If Great Britain, toward whom the animosity of the recent war was still strong, had not been
a monarchy, or if the revolution which changed our Revolutionary benefactress, France, into
a republic, had happened in England, or if the French Revolution had not so closely followed
in form the change in the United States from monarchy to republicanism, party animosity in
America would have been checked instead of advanced by the Old World contest. The same end
might have been reached if John Adams had been sent as Minister to France and Thomas Jefferson
to England. But Britain being the token of centralisation, the general tendency of the United
States toward unionism seemed to Jefferson to be the certain road to monarchism. This he conceived
to be the ultimate aim of Hamilton, born in the British West Indies, and Adams, who had returned
from Britain with his obnoxious theory that the "well-born" ought to rule the remainder of
the people.

The attempt of France, on the contrary, to secure the rights of man, with which Jefferson had
grown familiar during his residence in that country, appealed to him both from a national and
a personal standpoint. "I still hope," he said in one of those periods of French excess which
bade fair to ruin the whole, "that the French Revolution will issue happily. I feel that the
permanence of our own leans in some degree on that, and that a failure there would be a powerful
argument to prove that there must be a failure here." "A struggle for liberty is in itself
respectable and glorious," said Hamilton, in giving a Cabinet opinion that the treaty made
with France in 1778 had been annulled by the abrogation of the monarchy and the execution of
Louis XVI. "But if sullied by crimes and extravagance it loses respectability. It appears,
thus far, too probable that the pending Revolution in France has sustained some serious blemishes."
In another place he voiced the sentiments of the anti-French by saying that thus far no proof
had come to light sufficient to establish a belief that the execution of the King was an act
of national justice. But the French sympathisers thought otherwise. "If he was a traitor he
ought to be punished as well as another man," wrote Madison to Jefferson, quoting the sentiment
among the plain people of Virginia.

Public sentiment in the United States was thus crystallising into political parties on the
policy to be pursued toward the new French Republic. One faction was of the opinion that the
people of the United States were bound to aid the new sister not only by the sympathy of a
common struggle for liberty, but by the still stronger bonds of gratitude for assistance in
gaining their own freedom. They considered the alliance of 1778, which France had signed at
the expense of a war with England, as still binding upon the United States. It pledged the
United States to guarantee France in the possession of her West Indies, to admit her ships
with prizes to American ports, to keep out those of the enemy, and to prohibit the enemy from
using American ports to fit out privateers. From this last provision, some friends of France
deduced the opinion that it tacitly gave her permission to fit out privateers by denying the
right to her enemies.

Hamilton and others, who thought the French movement, begun for the sake of liberty, was deteriorating
into a frenzied propaganda destructive of rights and property, insisted that the change of
government in France had abrogated all claims which the alliance gave to monarchical France;
that, even if this were not so, the United States was pledged to aid her only in a defensive
war, and this war with England was entirely offensive on her part; that to give aid to the
maddened revolutionists was to identify ourselves irrevocably with destructive fanatics, bloody
regicides, and wild propagandists. These zealots, they said, had already pledged themselves
to treat as enemies any people "who, refusing or renouncing liberty and equality, are desirous
of preserving their prince or privileged castes, or of entering into an accommodation with
them." Our forefathers had been satisfied with securing liberty for themselves without trying
to impose it on all other nations. It was this proselyting spirit which caused their war against
Britain. Hence, the anti-French element allied itself with England. That nation was rapidly
being forced into a position where she alone would stand between French fanaticism and the
disruption of all society. These pro-British were, in the eyes of the French sympathisers,
base ingrates, as culpable as a nation would have been who sided with Great Britain during
the Revolutionary War.

Divided into these hostile factions during this summer of 1792, the United States reached the
first parting of the ways upon her foreign policy. Hitherto she had been of small moment to
European nations, touching them only on boundary questions connected with the New World. But
in the mighty struggle between one people bursting the bands of centuries of repression and
monarchical rule, and another nation in authority who saw prerogative, property, and person
in danger from the deluge, the United States would become important as a place for fitting
out and as a base of food-supply. Belligerents in the heat of war are not inclined to be over-regardful
of the rights of non-combatants. To maintain a strict neutrality had been well-nigh impossible
in the history of European nations. In nearly every war of the past, kingdom after kingdom
had become involved. The "armed neutrality," headed by Russia during the American Revolutionary
War, was formed by non-maritime nations ostensibly to protect their commerce from the belligerents;
but in reality to gather up the fragments of trade as they were scattered by the warring sea
powers.

The United States was fortunately located for announcing and maintaining a new idea of neutrality,
a nationality based on individual development through peaceful methods. Time alone was needed
in their isolated geographical condition to develop an industrial strength more efficient in
Europe than an armed force at that time As Washington said, just before issuing a proclamation
warning all citizens of the United States neither to aid nor to carry contraband goods to either
belligerent: "I believe it is the sincere wish of America to have nothing to do with the political
intrigues or the squabbles of European nations; but, on the contrary, to exchange commodities
and live in peace and amity with all the inhabitants of the earth." To another he made the
prediction that "if we are permitted to improve without interruption the great advantages which
nature and circumstances have placed within our reach, many years will not revolve before we
may be ranked, not only among the most respectable, but among the happiest people on this globe."
Notwithstanding the demands of the French sympathisers that the United States should anticipate
the payments due on the French debt, should allow French privateers to be fitted out in American
ports and prizes to be brought in and sold, and regardless of the insolent demands of the French
Minister, Genet, and the haughty tone of the Republic he represented, President Washington
issued the proclamation, April 22, 1793, warning the citizens of the United States to take
no part in the war. He was aided in maintaining this neutrality by the continued trespass of
each belligerent on American rights. If either had suddenly shown any regard for the neutral
position of the young American Republic, sentiment would have demanded immediate war upon the
other. But when England tried to cut off the supplies which France was receiving from America,
France adopted similar tactics toward England. Each accused the other of instituting these
war measures. Between the two millstones, American commerce bade fair to be ground to powder.
Britain, in order to recruit her navy, revived her practice of retaking her seamen who had
deserted, wherever they might be found. She took a large number of men from American vessels,
some of whom claimed to be American citizens instead of British deserters. This system of impressment
she continued until it resulted in the War of 1812. Her refusal to yield possession of the
forts on the American side of the boundary line remained as an additional grievance.

So strong was the hostile feeling toward England, that if the French revolutionists had not
plunged into such excesses as to compel their most ardent admirers to pause, the firm hand
of Washington could scarcely have prevented a declaration of war against Britain instead of
the temporary embargo which was adopted. As it was, a non-intercourse measure was killed in
the Senate only by the deciding vote of Vice-President Adams. A war at this time, when the
new Government had scarcely gotten upon its feet, when it was still obliged to borrow money
from Holland to meet its expenses, when its borders were harassed by hostile savages and its
forts occupied by the enemy, would have been ruinous if not suicidal. A foreign war would have
been fatal to the adopted policy of a disinterested neutrality, not dependent upon force, and
to an uninterrupted home development which was to continue for over a century. Neither the
clamour nor defamation of the Democratic clubs, nor the insinuations of the opposition press
that the President was biassed toward a monarchy because he wished eventually to transform
his office into a kingship, could drive the cool Washington from his stand of neutrality. It
was such self-control which drew from England's Minister, Canning, many years after, the tribute:
"If I wished for a guide in a system of neutrality, I should take that laid down by America
in the days of the presidency of Washington and the secretaryship of Jefferson."

Jefferson was worn out by the onerous duties of his office during this period of dominant foreign
politics. He was harassed by constant complaints of impressments and seizures. He was placed
in an unfortunate position by the presumptions of Genet. Distressed by the license into which
liberty in France was plunging he received small comfort in contemplating the British monarchical
tendency in America. He was greatly disappointed because Washington, whom he had pronounced
at first "purely and zealously republican," had been so frequently influenced by Hamilton and
Knox in the Cabinet, by John Adams in the Senate, and by John Jay in the Supreme Court. These
were all Northern men and all in favour of effective government. Most statesmen cling more
closely to the vessel during a time of party danger, but Jefferson chose to withdraw, believing
his continuance in office useless, and trusting, as he said, that the people could not be permanently
led away from the true principles of government. After his withdrawal, this monarchical tendency
seemed to him to have no check. The President, instead of advising war upon Great Britain both
to avenge her insults upon us and to aid the French Republic, sent John Jay to England as a
special envoy to try to secure some concessions from her. Jay eventually sent home a treaty,
which provided for the evacuation of the Western forts, for a commission to consider payment
for the slaves carried away upon the evacuation of New York, and for the withdrawal of the
discriminating tax on American shipping; but it purchased commercial entrance to the British
West Indies at the expense of Southern commodities. Above all, it made no mention of impressment,
of the search of American vessels, and the hindrance of their neutral trade.

"Further concessions," wrote Jay to his friends in America, "on the part of Great Britain cannot,
in my opinion, be attained. If this treaty fails, I despair of another. I knew and know that
no attainable settlement or treaty would give universal satisfaction. Men are more apt to think
of what they wish to have than of what is in their power to obtain."

Hamilton, who had followed Jefferson's example and retired from Washington's Cabinet, yet virtually
remained at the head of the party, advised the acceptance of the Jay treaty. "It closes," said
he, "and upon the whole as reasonably as could have been expected, the controverted points
between the two countries. The terms are in no way inconsistent with national honor."

Jefferson, Madison, and their followers believed, on the contrary, that the adoption of the
treaty would violate all national honour in practically dissolving the French alliance of 1778
and would bind the United States to monarchical England warring on republican France. The proclamation
of neutrality from Washington had not been so hard to bear, since it took sides with neither
belligerent; but the Jay treaty, it was said, would array America against the cause of liberty.
The French and British factions were resolved to put the matter to the test in the Senate.
From this time may be dated the beginning of political parties in the United States. Feeling
ran high. Jay was burned in effigy in many cities and the treaty ridiculed and villified in
the Republican prints. Hamilton was mobbed in New York, and Vice-President John Adams armed
himself against personal violence.

The ratification of the Jay treaty by exactly the required two-thirds vote in the Senate showed
the relative strength of the two parties at the time, although the Senate changes more slowly
than the House. The success of the treaty advocates allowed Washington to close his eight years
in peace with England. Pinckney, whom he had sent to Madrid at the same time he sent Jay to
London, succeeded in securing a treaty with Spain. Nearly twenty years had been spent in gaining
this first acknowledgment from the Castilian. It provided for establishing a permanent boundary-line
between the United States and the Spanish Floridas, arranged a control over the troublesome
Indians living near the line, and assured to American traders the privilege of using the port
of New Orleans as a place of trans-shipment for their produce. If the port of New Orleans should
be closed, another port was to be opened to them. The Americans seemed to have succeeded, after
more than ten years' effort, in getting the privilege of using the lower Mississippi.

This Treaty of 1795 with Spain, although overshadowed by the contemporaneous Jay Treaty, was
extremely important in American diplomatic history. Not only did it quiet the discontent of
the Western people and terminate foreign intrigue in that quarter, but it affected, strangely
enough, the future history of the lower Mississippi. From the time of the Pinckney Treaty,
France was unceasing in her efforts to persuade Spain to give over to her care the Louisiana
province, which embraced New Orleans, insisting that she was the only power strong enough to
check the advance of the United States and save the rest of the Spanish possessions in America.
Three years later these arguments prevailed. Louisiana was transferred to France, and very
soon fell into the hands of the Americans.

Washington had closed some of the most troublesome foreign questions which he had inherited
from Confederation days. The new republic was beginning to make a place for itself among the
nations. Treaties of amity and commerce had been made with all the maritime nations. American
ministers were to be seen at the principal European Courts. Britain, France, Spain, and Holland
had honoured the new power by sending representatives to Philadelphia. The entire diplomatic
horizon was clear except in the French portion, where the Jay Treaty was bound to give offence.
Under its tacit permission, as the French sympathisers claimed, more than three hundred American
vessels were captured within the next twelvemonth, and over one thousand American seamen impressed
by Britain. During the same period only three vessels and a few sailors were taken by France.

In its domestic relations, also, the United States, as the time of Washington's second term
drew to a close, was exceedingly prosperous. The new Government was in full operation. No one
longer questioned its success or its fitness for the task before it. Fears for individual rights
had been quieted by the adoption of ten amendments to the Constitution, guaranteeing the continuance
of such birthrights as freedom of conscience, trial by jury, free possession of property, and
habeas corpus. The Union had come off victorious in its first case of discipline. It had made
practical demonstration that its laws would be enforced and that it could use State militia
regardless of State lines in enforcing them. Its system of judges and marshals extended over
the entire domain. Its Supreme Court had sustained the claim of a citizen of South Carolina
against the State of Georgia. State sovereignty had received a blow and national supremacy
an impulse. The Superior Court had also declared that a treaty of the United States predominated
over a State law, and that no State could confiscate a debt owed to a British subject. According
to another decision, the United States District Courts were sustained in their admiralty jurisdiction
over the State courts. The validity and authority of a presidential proclamation was established
by the prosecution in the circuit court at Richmond of an offender against Washington's neutrality
proclamation. But the decision during Washington's administration which especially made for
the Union was in the case of Penhallow v. Doane's executors, which sustained all the actions
of the old Congress both during the Revolutionary period and under the Articles, and made its
decisions final in cases of appeal from State tribunals. Thus was the national sovereignty,
by a single decision, extended backward over local government to the very beginnings of independency
and, at the same time, established for the future so long as the National Government should exist.

Not only in the intangible shape of Supreme Court decisions, but in a thousand practical particulars,
the central agency was making itself manifest to the people and gaining friends among them.
The general condition of the country was prosperous. Over ten million dollars had been paid
on the national debt. A dependable revenue was being collected in scores of United States custom-houses
scattered through the different States. During Washington's last year in office, their receipts
had amounted to twelve and a half million dollars. The National Government was expending a
part of this money in rendering commerce safe. It was purchasing lighthouses from the maritime
States and erecting new ones. Sites for these buildings were being ceded by the various States
along the sea-coast. Beacons, buoys, and public piers were being established by the revenue
service. Sixteen harbours within the several States were being fortified at national expense.
Plans for the improvement of certain rivers were being considered. The Congress under the Confederation
had declared navigable waterways in the Northwest Territory leading into the Mississippi and
St. Lawrence to be free highways, and the new Congress extended this inestimable guarantee
to all waters of the public domain. Its extension to the States would come later from a Supreme
Court decision. The improvement of these rivers at national expense would result in time from
the westward expansion of the people.

The domain under the complete control of the Federal Government had been increased by a cession
from South Carolina. The States of Kentucky and Tennessee had been carved out of the "territory
south of the Ohio," and, with the State of Vermont, had been admitted to equal membership in
the Union by the sole action of the Federal Government. The national post-routes had been extended
in eight years from three thousand to sixteen thousand miles, and the number of post-offices
had been increased to seven hundred. By severe penalties, the Government had taught the people
to respect as well as to be grateful for this branch of its activities. It had also regulated
trade with Indians not residing within the jurisdiction of a State, and, by scattering its
troops along the border, was attempting to protect the savage from the encroachments and debauchment
of the white man, as well as to shield the white man from the barbarity of the savage.

The presidential election machinery had been tried a third time and had worked smoothly. Electors
had been chosen in each State without the predicted revolution and bloodshed. They had cast
seventy-one votes for John Adams and sixty-eight for Thomas Jefferson. The former, having received
the highest number of votes, was declared President and the latter Vice-President. Perhaps
some of those who had voted for Adams may have thought the Vice-Presidency a place of training
for the higher office, and its incumbent in the line of promotion. But on examining the geographical
distribution of the vote, one sees that sectionalism influenced the result of this third presidential
election, as it did a majority of later ones. The vote for Adams came almost entirely from
the Northern States; that for Jefferson from the Southern. Adams stood for Federalism, for
centralisation, for a continuation of the policy of the present Administration. He and Hamilton
were close friends. They broke only when Hamilton found that he could not influence President
Adams as he had President Washington. Electors who voted for Jefferson thought he stood for
principles exactly opposite to those of Adams. His antipathy to Hamilton was the best guarantee
against centralisation being continued under his management.

Those who had prophesied that the overwhelming majority of Washington would result in a series
of re-elections during his life, or that the expiration of each term would find the country
in some danger which would demand his continuance, had been silenced by a farewell address
declaring his intention to retire. The pattern of two terms which he set no President has ever
dared attempt to exceed. The opponents of his administration, those who had foreseen the coming
royal reception in the simple levee which marked his social life, or who objected to the growing
custom of celebrating his birthday as if he were a monarch, were compelled to cease their evil
prophecies when he attended, as a spectator, the inauguration of his successor in the room
of the House of Representatives adjacent to old Independence Hall in Philadelphia on the fourth
day of March, 1797. As the incoming President wrote to his wife, the multitude was as great
as the space would contain and not a dry eye but Washington's. Like the formative influence
of a good parent extending from generation to generation, the precedent of Washington's voluntary
retirement from the Presidency has been a rich heritage to the American people. It may be safely
said that it is largely the cause of the pleasing contrast which exists between the changes
of administration in the United States and those in the other American republics.

CHAPTER XII

SUPPRESSING THE FRENCH SYMPATHISERS

The only cloud on the horizon the day that John Adams became President lay in the direction
of France and was caused by the Jay Treaty. It seemed impossible to keep peace with both belligerents
abroad or with their factions at home. Adams would probably be more scrupulous of the rights
of the individual than Hamilton; yet drastic measures were likely to become necessary if the
pro-British and the pro-French agitators were to be muzzled and their clamour hushed. Such
a censorship of speech was a thing not to be lightly contemplated in America.

Freedom of speech and the press had been inherited as a privilege of Englishmen, wrested from
those in authority by years of contest, and maintained only by constant vigilance. A guarantee
that it should not be restricted by the State had been placed in many of the State constitutions.
A similar prohibition formed the first amendment to the Federal Constitution. Freedom of movement
is closely akin to freedom of speech. Not even in the heyday of State sovereignty had any serious
attempt been made to prevent the movement of unobjectionable free people from one State to
another. The Constitution guaranteed to citizens of each State all privileges and immunities
of citizens of the several States. The same instrument allowed Congress to establish a uniform
rule of naturalisation in making United States citizens out of foreign immigrants; but the
right of declaring who should be citizens of the States, having been assumed by the State constitutions,
was left to them individually. State and national citizenship were thus separate from the beginning.
For these reasons it could happen, as pointed out in the Dred Scott decision many years later,
that a State could make an alien into a citizen of the State, entitled to all its rights and
privileges, but he might still be an alien in the United States and deprived of national citizenship.

The first Congress recognised its constitutional obligation to provide a uniform law for national
citizenship by allowing an alien who had resided two years within its jurisdiction and one
year within any State to take an oath before any court of common-law record to support the
Constitution and thereby become a citizen. Five years later, Congress feared that the warring
powers of Europe would send undesirable aliens to the United States. "Coming from a quarter
of the world so full of disorder and corruption," said a speaker in the House, "they might
contaminate the purity and simplicity of the American character." A new naturalisation law
was passed, requiring an alien to give three years' notice of his intention to change his allegiance--a
kind of period of repentance. The required time of residence was then raised to five years
for the nation and one for the State. During that time he must maintain a good moral character,
must abjure allegiance to all other sovereigns, and must renounce all hereditary titles and
orders of nobility. In this way one speaker said he hoped to shut out those refugees from the
twenty thousand French nobility, who might choose to fly to the United States. Another expected
to see an equally large number of the peerage arrive from Britain, as soon as the correct principles
of government should take root there.

Little alarm need have been felt about those members of the deposed nobility of France who
did arrive. They were more concerned with getting daily bread than acquiring citizenship or
retaining their titles. Prince, marquis and marquise, vicomte, and bishop, alike must keep
body and soul together by turning wig-maker, baker, or milliner, until the madness of the French
people should pass. By and by, the changes of fortune in France began to send over Constitutionalists,
Thermidorians, Fructidorians, and the like, to plot and intrigue. "They kept their eyes fixed
on France," said a French volunteer, who had returned to America to secure the pay due him
since Revolutionary days, "to which all expected to return sooner or later and recommence what
each called his great work, for there were exactly the same number of political systems as
there were refugees." The French sympathisers in America mingled with these emigres and were
more or less concerned with their plans. The press offered the opportunity to vent much of
their spleen on Washington and to express their opinions of the "British United States Government,"
as they called it.

Added to these scribblers were certain other agitators, preachers, and writers, refugees from
England and Scotland, driven out by the British Government in its effort to keep the sentiments
of the French propagandists from taking root in British soil. More libel suits had been instituted
in the courts of England during a single year of the French Revolution than in any two previous
decades. Among those banished was Thomas Paine, who had returned to London, after lending his
pen to the American cause, and had written the famous, or infamous, as some called it, Rights
of Man. Many of these aliens in America were scribblers who had picked up a few current phrases
and lofty sentiments about liberty and equality. They were of varying ability as writers, but
uniform in their venomous abuse and hatred of England and all her sympathisers. In the rapid
increase of newspapers, which marked this first period of prosperity and the birth of political
parties, many of these writers found precarious employment; a few found remunerative occupations.
Of the two hundred newspapers published in the United States when John Adams became President,
it was estimated that at least twenty-five were edited by men of alien birth.

At few later periods have political parties brought out such scurrilous abuse in the press
as in these early days. Although the number of newspapers has so increased that irresponsible
and vulgar men are to be found among editors, although the restraints of law upon the press
have been greatly loosened, yet the tone of the leading newspapers to-day is immeasurably better
than it was a century ago. As the opposition to the Administration gradually crystallised into
a party, few suffered more from the pens of its writers than did the first President. The abuse,
which included such grave charges as that he had murdered a French envoy near Fort DuQuesne
years before, that he had taken money illegally from the United States Treasury, and that he
hoped to turn his Presidency into a monarchical reign, followed him to the end of his administration.
Washington's replies to the numerous addresses of societies and public meetings which had greeted
his entrance to office eight years before breathed a spirit of toleration. It was his eminent
desire, as he said in one reply, to have every association and community make such use of the
auspicious years of peace, liberty, and free inquiry, as they should hereafter rejoice in having
done.

At the same time, the mind of Washington, the exclusive Virginia gentleman, could easily make
a distinction between liberty and license. He attributed the insurrection against the excise
almost entirely to the unbridled utterances of the Democratic clubs, their "first formidable
fruits," as he put it. Nor did he fail, in reporting the suppression of the rebellion to the
next Congress, to express his opinion of these "self-created societies" who disseminated suspicions,
jealousies, and accusations of the whole Government. Jefferson, still believing in the original
doctrine of the rights of man, called this allusion of the President "the greatest error of
his political life." The societies would have soon died out if left alone, he said. Coercion
would make them thrive. He pronounced it almost incredible that the freedom of association
and of the press should be attacked in the fifth year of the new Government, a step which England,
fast advancing to an absolute monarchy, had not yet attempted.

There was small probability that this abuse from the Jacobin clubs and presses would cease
with the retirement of Washington. When he gave out his farewell address, written by "the President's
president," as they called Hamilton, a Vermont editor regretted that he had not retired four
years before, which would have saved the country from having been so debauched by its mistress,
England. The day of his departure for Mount Vernon was celebrated by a scurrilous attack in
the Aurora, which a defender of his memory vindicated by an assault upon its editor.

John Adams, as Vice-President, had long been pilloried as "the dangerous Vice," for his theories
upon inherited talent, a doctrine in direct contradiction to the tenets of democracy. He also
appeared in the Jacobin prints as "President Crispin," the son of a shoemaker, and as "the
President of three votes," alluding to the narrow majority of Adams over Jefferson in the recent
election. Many went so far as to charge that the election of Adams had been accomplished by
prematurely closing the polls in a Maryland election district and by the action of a Pennsylvania
postmaster, who held back the returns. Franklin's recent death had plunged the people of two
hemispheres into mourning. His memory was not sacred enough to prevent an accusation that he
had once pocketed the money for two hundred thousand stand of arms, which had been intended
as a present to the United States from the King of France. The oft-repeated scandal of the
lost million francs was freshly ventilated. Yet so precious was freedom of speech in America
that even those attacked hesitated to follow British pattern in placing a censor over the press.
Even Patrick Henry, being rapidly won to the support of the experiment which he had formerly
opposed, declared: "Although I am a Democrat myself, I like not the late Democratic societies.
As little do I like their suppression by law."

President Adams had years before placed himself on record concerning the freedom of the press.
Long a fulsome contributor to the newspapers on political questions, he had said: "There is
not in any nation of the world so unlimited a freedom of the press as is now established in
every State of the American Union, both by law and practice. There is nothing that the people
dislike that they do not attack."

Entertaining such liberal opinions, an unforgiving enemy to Britain, an admirer of the French
people since first he came into contact with them, John Adams entered the Presidency prepared
to save the press from the storm gathering about it. But the partisans would not stop their
abuse long enough to examine his predilections or to forecast the attitude he was likely to
assume in his conduct of foreign affairs. They were enraged by the advantage apparently given
to Britain in the Jay Treaty, disappointed in the continued repression of every effort to aid
France, and emboldened by the high tone of the French Directory after the sympathetic Monroe
had been ordered home to be replaced by the Federalist, Pinckney. They sneered at Adams's inaugural
address where he admitted a personal esteem for the French nation, formed during seven years
spent abroad and chiefly in Paris, and expressed a sincere desire to preserve the friendship
which had been so much to the honour and interest of both nations.

Notwithstanding these cordial words, President Adams, within three months, was calling together
the first extra session of Congress in the history of the Government, and informing them in
vigorous language that Pinckney, an American Minister, had been refused cards of hospitality
by the Executive Directory at the head of the Republic of France, had been threatened by the
police, and had finally been practically ordered out of the country. The right to reject an
ambassador was recognised by the law of nations. But "a refusal to receive him until we have
acceded to their demands without discussion and without investigation," said the President,
"is to treat us neither as allies nor as friends, nor as a sovereign state." The warlike message
advised strengthening the army and navy, perfecting the coast defences, preventing further
building of foreign cruisers in the United States, and the raising of revenue sufficient for
these purposes. Although closing with a promise of continued effort toward neutrality, this
hostile address from the first statesman-President forms a strong contrast with the mild messages
of the first soldier-President. The granite rock of New England had been reached and it gave
no evidence of yielding. The response to the defensive tone of the President varied according
to foreign affiliations. Parties in America were as yet reflections of European wars. The pro-British
faction, strong in all parts of the National Government except the executive, were as eager
for a trial at arms with France as they had been reluctant for war with England two years before.
Hamilton wrote columns for the daily press to prove that the assistance which France gave to
us during our struggle for independence was based on purely selfish motives. We were bound
by no ties of gratitude to yield to her pique at the Jay Treaty. "Those who can justify displeasure
in France on this account," said he, "are not Americans but Frenchmen. They are not fit for
being members of an independent nation."

The opponents to this attitude--those whom Hamilton called "the servile minions of France,
who have no sensibility to injury but when it comes from Great Britain, and who are unconscious
of any rights to be protected against France," were equally clamorous for forbearance. They
asked Adams, in this crisis, to send a sympathetic man, say Jefferson, who would be acceptable
to France and would soothe French pride and avert the threatened war. Although Jay had been
taken by Washington from the Supreme Bench to be sent as envoy to England, Adams thought the
Vice-President too dignified a person to be used in this manner. Such an action would also
imperil the presidential succession. Yet he was desirous of seeking some kind of an accommodation
to preserve neutrality. Although France had "inflicted a wound in the American breast," as
he put it in his message, he appointed three special envoys to renew negotiations. Their number
would protect American interests and show to France the gravity of the situation. Pinckney,
the rejected Minister, was made quite justly one of the three. John Marshall, the second member,
like Pinckney, belonged to the anti-French faction. Gerry, the third envoy, was a former Anti-Federalist
and a sympathiser with France.

The treatment which these three envoys received in France caused the tempest in a teapot commonly
known as "the X Y Z affair." By discrediting the French faction, it hastened the day of their
attempted suppression by the Government of the United States. With the mysterious methods current
during the days of the contemptible Directory then at the head of the Government of France,
certain supposed go-betweens approached the American envoys with suggestions that "money, lots
of money," would be necessary to heal the wounds inflicted on the French heart by the Jay Treaty
and by the recent words of President Adams. This gold, it was said, was necessary as a pre-requisite
for opening negotiations. Part of it was to constitute a loan to carry on the war with England,
and the rest was understood to be a douceur for the pockets of the members of the Directory.
"We loaned you money in your hour of need," Pinckney was told by a mysterious Frenchwoman,
who figured in the affair. "Why should not you lend to us?"

In the reports of these envoys which John Adams sent to Congress as rapidly as received, the
name of Hubbard, who had introduced the three to the go-betweens, was indicated by the letter
"W," Horttinguer by "X," Bellamy by "Y," and Hauteval, who acted as interpreter, by "Z." It
was useless for Jefferson, Madison, and the French sympathisers in America to point out that
douceur meant a gift and not a bribe, and that the supposed go-betweens were discredited and
their action disavowed by Talleyrand and the Directory. It was believed and is currently stated
in America that an attempt was made to bribe these dignified representatives of the American
people. The national spirit was aroused. Unionism received such an impulse as years of domestic
relationship could not produce. The war microbe was loosed among the people. One of those sudden
outbursts of national rage, as unexpected as violent, ran the length and breadth of the land.
A broadside was circulated, with stanzas beginning:

  "At length the Envoys deign to tell us
   They had to deal with scurvey fellows--
   With Autun and the five-head beast
   And half the alphabet, at least."

For perhaps the only time in his life, John Adams tasted the sweets of a widespread popularity.
His birthday, like that of his predecessor, was generally celebrated. The sympathetic French
following was swept off its feet. "Exultation on one side and a certainty of victory; while
the other is petrified with astonishment," was Jefferson's admission.

The British faction had at last an opportunity of crushing the French sympathisers, and they
accepted it most willingly. In their intolerance, they went almost as far as the other side
had gone a few years before. A South Carolinian, visiting in New York, was assaulted in the
circus because he refused to take off his hat when the President of the United States entered.
A "reign of terror" was instituted against the pro-French office-holders. It was even claimed
by them that a general massacre had been arranged for the Pennsylvania fast-day, and Bache,
the editor of the Aurora, made a show of garrisoning his house with an armed body of his friends.
A Senator in debate was reported to have declared his willingness to vote for a law punishing
every citizen of America who educated his children in the study of the French language.

Hamilton and those who wished to give new precedent to the National Government along lines
of its foreign relations where patriotism would support strong measures, were delighted with
the response on the part of the people. Theatre crowds demanded encores of the President's
March and hissed French airs when played. Merchants of New York and other seaports worked voluntarily
on the neglected coast-defences. A song was put to the air of True Hearts of Oak in order to
"cheer those unused to spade and barrow, who might tire of working on the several forts." It began:

  "Ye friends of your country, the summons attend,
      Be this your employment, your joy and your pride,
   Your heav'n-granted rights to preserve and defend,
      And the spirits of freemen your labors shall guide."

   Chorus.

  "Our country demands-her call we obey,
      Let 's work and be merry,
   We'll never be weary,
      While freedom and glory our labors repay."

Hundreds of addresses reached the President, the larger number heartily endorsing his attitude
toward the insulting Directory. Public opinion supported Congress at the time in passing many
war measures at this special session of 1798 and the regular session which followed. Eighteen
acts were added to the Statutes at Large during the special and seventy-five at the regular
session, nearly double the number of laws enacted at any prior sitting. The exportation of
arms was forbidden and their importation encouraged. The navy was separated from the army and
a new department created for it. The three men-of-war which constituted the United States Navy
were repaired and put into commission. The construction of others was begun. Frigates, galleys,
and rowboats were ordered and regiments of artillerists and engineers authorised to be recruited.
A quarter of a million dollars was appropriated to the coast-defences. Over a million was voted
for increasing the number and for arming the regular troops. A provisional army of ten thousand
men and a marine corps were placed at the disposal of the President. From his retirement at
Mt. Vernon, ex-President Washington was summoned to assume command of the provisional army.

Not alone measures of defence, but actual war measures were passed. The President was authorised
to seize armed French vessels found near the American coast. Merchantmen were permitted to
arm against the French. Thirty thousand stand of arms were distributed among the militia of
the States. All treaties with France were formally dissolved, and all intercourse with her
suspended until the next session of Congress. To provide money for these unusual expenditures
a loan of five million dollars for fifteen years was authorised, and a stamp-tax levied not
unlike that of thirty years before, against which the colonists had rebelled.

As if they had not yet sufficiently endangered the party, the triumphant Federalist majority
proceeded to vent its long accumulated wrath upon its critics, and thereby brought the story
of the United States a long chapter forward. Those who had writhed under the attacks of Duane,
a former resident of Ireland, but lately driven from India for violating the liberty allowed
to the press, hoped for sweet revenge. Others wanted retribution against Callender, setting
up at Richmond an abusive press such as had caused him to be driven from Scotland not long
before. The list of lesser offenders among the alien writers was long. As President Adams asked:
"How many presses, how many newspapers have been directed by vagabonds, fugitives from a bailiff,
a pillory, or a halter in Europe?"

Charges against these aliens were not confined to their political writings. The air was full
of conspiracy. Some suspected a league between foreigners and the United Irishmen; others thought
the aliens leagued with the Freemasons for the destruction of all social relations, private
property, religion, and government. Emissaries of France were supposed to be in every republic
plotting for her universal dominion. Holland and Switzerland had already lost their liberty
in this way. Talleyrand, the French Minister of Foreign Affairs, who had spent his exile in
America and had become a naturalised citizen, was in secret correspondence, so it was declared
in Congress, with certain people in this country. Another Frenchman, it was said, "of a literary
and intriguing character, formerly a member of the Club Breton, doubtless in the confidence
of the Directory, who had for a long time lived in Pennsylvania, has recently taken flight."
Should this menace be allowed to continue? Both France and England were exercising the right
of self-preservation and banishing suspicious aliens. These fled to the United States and made
it a common plotting-ground. They were described in the Congressional debate on this subject
as "men endeavoring to spread sedition and discord; who had assisted in laying other countries
prostrate; whose hands are reeking with blood and whose hearts rankle with hatred toward us.
Have we not the power to shake off these firebrands?"

By a safe majority in the House and a vote of two to one in the Senate, the Federalists placed
additional bars to the doors of the United States by raising the time required for national
residence prior to naturalisation to fourteen years, with a residence of five years in some
one State, and a declaration of intention made five years before admission. All white aliens
were required to report to some official register, and get a certificate within forty-eight
hours after arrival. By a law, called the "Alien Friends act," Congress gave power to the President
to order out of the United States all aliens whom he suspected of being concerned in any treasonable
or secret machination against the Government. If he chose, he could give such an alien a license
to remain under bond. The duration of the act was limited to two years. A companion measure,
called the "Alien Enemies act," contemplated the possibility of an immediate war with France
and gave the President and the courts power to arrest, to punish, or remove natives of a hostile
country after due proclamation. All courts were authorised to hear complaints against aliens,
much in the style of the denunciation system of France a few years before.

The alien writers and the Republican press generally had not been afraid to attack the war
measures and the bills for the restraint of foreigners as they were proposed and debated. Upon
the sudden rage of naming vessels after the President, Duane in the Aurora sarcastically remarked
that the name would be a host of strength in itself and completely protect our extensive commerce.
He thought we outstripped the British in this instance.

"In the navy of England, there is only one royal George and one Charlotte; there is to be sure
the Sovereign and the Queen; but we shall certainly have, The President, the Lady Adams, or
the Lady President, with Squire Quincy and Squire Charley, otherwise the navy of Columbia will
be incomplete."

In other papers, the President figured as "Johnny Molasses" from the rum manufacture of Massachusetts.
The New York Time-Piece pronounced him "a person without patriotism, without philosophy, and
a mock monarch who had been jostled into the chief magistracy by the ominous combination of
old Tories with old opinions and old Whigs with new." Addresses were printed begging aliens
not to enlist in the provisional army if any laws should be passed against them.

All action taken thus far to ensure the perpetuity and safety of the Government against the
strangers within its gates seemed to the Federalists incomplete while this seditious press
remained unbridled. The crowning measure of the session of 1798, therefore, took the shape
of an addition to the early act defining crimes against the United States. It provided fine
and imprisonment for conspiring to oppose measures of the Government, for advising insurrection,
and for libelling the Government, either House of Congress, or the President. The duration
of the act was limited to the end of the present Administration. As originally introduced into
the Senate, this "sedition act" declared that giving aid or comfort to a Frenchman or to France
was treason to the United States, punishable by death. It was toned down in this and several
other particulars by moderate spirits before being enacted into a law.

The opposition in Congress, called "Republicans" by themselves and "Jacobins" by their enemies,
had resisted these famous "alien and sedition laws" at every step. They pleaded that such police
regulations had been left by the Constitution to the States; that national citizenship did
not exist separate from State citizenship; that Congress could pass uniform laws of naturalisation,
but could not control aliens resident in a State; that adequate punishment for sedition was
already provided in the laws of the various States; that the crime of treason was taken care
of by the Constitution and Federal laws; that existing treaties required notice to be given
before foreigners could be sent away, and then only in case of war; and that a dangerous power
was placed in the hands of the President. The constitutional amendments guaranteeing trial
by jury and freedom of speech were also quoted in vain. When a member from New York declared
that the people ought not to submit to such tyrannical legislation and would deserve the chains
which these measures were forging for them if they did not resist, such language was declared
treasonable by the other side and productive of the insurrectionary spirit they were trying
to stamp out.

An analysis of the distribution of the vote on the Alien bill shows that these presses, although
located in the Northern and Central States, were supported by the Southern people. Perhaps
the sectional tendency of the vote should be considered as indicative of the loss of the Southern
States to the Administration and prophetic of the support which individualism was to receive
from that section. Not a Senator north of the Mason and Dixon line opposed the measure, and
only one from south of the line supported it. Of the Southern members in the House, nine voted
for and thirty against sending away dangerous aliens. In the Northern section the vote stood
thirty-seven to ten in favour of the punitive action.

Jefferson, presiding over the Senate while these measures, so obnoxious to him, were being
passed, deprived of even the pleasure of casting an occasional deciding vote by the overwhelming
Federal majority, quietly bided his time until this madness should die out. "War, land tax
and stamp tax," said he, "are sedatives which must calm its ardour." To his mind, the people
were still essentially republican; they retained unadulterated the principles of '75; they
needed only reflection and information to bring themselves and their affairs to rights. Better
keep together as we are, haul off from Europe as soon as we can, and from all attachments to
any portions of it."

At the same time, if war should come, he advised all to join for the defence of home on the
principle that if one's house is on fire he must try to extinguish it without stopping to inquire
whether it was fired from without or within.

The execution of the Alien and Sedition laws proved as unpopular and as futile as Jefferson
had imagined. Callender escaped the Alien law by completing his naturalisation, but was fined
and imprisoned for seditious publications. His counsel, Cooper, a lawyer-editor, suffered similar
punishment. A chartered vessel carried back to France, now under more tolerant government,
a large number of emigres including Volney, the philosophical writer and former friend of Washington,
suspected of being at the head of the conspirators in the United States. The abusive Time-Piece
was abandoned, one of the editors fleeing the country and the other being under arrest. Duane
was assaulted in his office, his presses destroyed by a mob, and himself haled before Congress
for criticising their actions. Lyon, a violent Republican who had come near being expelled
from the House for assaulting a fellow-member, was fined and imprisoned for commenting on certain
appointments made by the President. A half-dozen or more insignificant country editors were
caught in the Federalist drag-net, serving only to make the law more ridiculous.

President Adams never found a dangerous alien friend to send out of the country. The war with
France was averted and the Alien Enemies act consequently never enforced. Some new issue arose
to attract popular attention. The war fever passed as quickly as it came. Only the extra taxes
remained to remind the people that the French-war scare of 1798 had ever occurred. War measures
are always popular at the time they are passed. National patriotism is aroused, excitement
refuses to listen to conservatism, and judgment is replaced by impulse. Measures necessary
to raise the extra revenue are easily voted; but after the excitement has passed, the extra
taxes become an extra burden. Those who yesterday clamoured most loudly for national defence
and "patriotic" measures will to-morrow seek to evade payment or turn and rend the party which
imposed the levies. The war is soon over; the train of taxes which follows seems endless. A
political party takes small risk in fathering a war; it faces a great danger in the reaction
which follows.

The Federalists had not only authorised by their war measures a large addition to the national
debt, but had imposed certain forms of direct taxes. Even more odious than either the stamp
tax or the tax on slaves was that on "improvements" in property. In order to arrive at a fair
conclusion of the value of dwellings, the number of windows in each was taken as a standard
by the assessors. This method was not unknown to the Old World, but proved extremely obnoxious
in the New. Resistance in eastern Pennsylvania took the form of the so-called '"Fries Insurrection."
It offered another opportunity to the National Government to assert its authority, but rendered
President Adams still more unpopular, and increased public hostility toward the Federalists.
Although Adams pardoned the leader, John Fries, he did not appease the Republicans, and he
angered the Hamiltonians, who would show no clemency toward the opponents of law and order.
Like some mastodon of old, the party floundered deeper into the swamp, eventually to succumb,
leaving only its bones as a warning to the danger of overconfidence.

CHAPTER XIII

THE FIRST STATE PROTESTS

The autumn of 1798 marked the extreme limits to which the leaders and party intentionally strengthening
the Union were allowed to go at present. It was the culmination of Federalist power. The critical
turning-point, the momentary pause before the backward swing of the pendulum, was marked by
popular disorders. The first heat of party passion, the tendency toward centralisation in ten
years of Federalism, and ignorance of the extent to which the party might go, had combined
to bring the country to the verge of actual disruption. The black cockades (English) fought
with the tricoloured cockades (French) on a public fast-day in the streets of Philadelphia.
Republicans, attempting to nail up petitions for the repeal of the Alien and Sedition laws
on the doors of Christ Church, were set upon by the Federalists and driven away. The President
received anonymous letters threatening to burn Philadelphia. Citizens packed their valuables
in readiness for flight. Numerous incipient riots occurred in New York and other cities.

While the people of the French faction were thus expressing their disapproval of the administration
measures, their leaders were casting about to find the most potent remedy against such abuse
of the national power. Even those who, like Madison, believed in the efficacy of the new Government
had not expected to see it turned into an agency for the oppression of the individual. To their
minds, a continuance of the present course must mean the complete loss of individual and State
liberty, or the overthrow of the Union of States, which had been gained only after great effort.
An appeal to the ballot was one remedy; but more than two years must elapse before a change
of administration was possible. The States, in forming the Union, had thrown about themselves
many safeguards. It was high time to test their efficiency.

In the debates on the Alien and kindred measures, the ratification acts of the different States
had been quoted by Republican members to show that the States had granted certain powers to
the Union, and that the States alone could judge when those powers had been transcended. The
State was the natural agency for the protection of the individual in this hour of danger.

Browbeaten, as Jefferson explained later, by a bold and overwhelming majority in Congress,
the Republicans resolved to retire from that field, and to take a stand in their State Legislatures.
The legislative, rather than the executive or judicial branch of the States, represented the
people of the United States dwelling in the various States. The State Legislatures had sent
delegates to form the Constitution, and the State Legislatures had called the State conventions
which adopted it. In the State Legislatures the true friends of the Union, as the Jeffersonians
called themselves, would endeavour to find an agency for protection against the unwarranted
attack of the National Government. Four members of Congress at this time actually withdrew,
forming a striking precedent for sixty years later. Although sometimes charged with planning
a forcible resistance to the central power, the Republicans as a whole contemplated nothing
more than concerted action in resolutions to be adopted by the State Legislatures.

Selecting North Carolina as a strong Republican State to take the lead, Jefferson drew up a
set of resolutions setting forth the doctrine of protest. However, chancing to meet some Kentucky
politicians visiting in Virginia, he gave the paper to them. Their State offered advantages
superior to North Carolina for inaugurating the movement. Her history from infancy had been
one continued struggle for political rights. "Kentucky," said her governor in his message at
the opening of the session of the State Legislature following the passage of the Alien and
Sedition acts, "remote from the contaminating influences of European politics, is steady to
the principles of pure Republicanism and will ever be the asylum of her persecuted votaries."
The customary reply of the House took the shape of nine lengthy resolutions, rewritten from
the set drawn up by Jefferson. They were adopted by both Houses of the State Legislature, signed
by the governor, and sent as an appeal to the "co-states in the federal Union." Assuming that
the States and the Union had made a compact whereby the latter had been given certain limited
powers for definite purposes, the remaining powers being reserved to the States, the resolutions
declared that whenever the General Government assumed undelegated powers, its acts were unauthoritative,
void, and of no force; and that, as in all cases of compact having no common judge, each party
had a right to judge of infractions and redress. This hypothesis being assumed, the remainder
of the resolutions supports it with arguments, using generally the ones employed by the opposition
speakers in Congress to prove that the Alien and Sedition laws were unconstitutional.

In a comprehensive view of the history of the making of the Union, these resolutions are of
great importance. They form the first note of individualistic protest against the growing power
of the Union. To them one must look for the first suggestion of the means to be employed. Unfortunately
for this purpose, they are declamatory rather than constructive. They seek to arouse passion
rather than to lay out a definite line of resistance. The only suggestion of immediate action
is an instruction to the Kentucky Representatives to attempt to secure the repeal of the encroaching
acts at the next session of Congress and an appeal to the other States to "concur in declaring
these acts void and of no force."

Madison was no doubt in touch with the inception of the Kentucky Resolutions. To him was given
the task of drawing up those to be adopted in the Virginia Legislature. So critical had the
times become that he had resigned from Congress to accept a seat in his State Legislature.
Although he composed a set of resolutions, as Jefferson had requested, he thought the proper
remedy lay in a convention of delegates from the States rather than in the State Legislatures.
The Constitution had been formed by a convention and not by the Legislatures. Therefore, to
avoid having the Legislature seem presumptious, he had used only "general expressions," as
he said, in his resolutions. Upon this assumption, a protest was made against the Alien acts,
which united unconstitutionally the legislative and judicial powers to those of the Executive;
also against the Sedition law, which imposed a punishment expressly forbidden by one of the
amendments to the Constitution.

Upon the question of a proper remedy, Madison went no farther than to beg that the other States
would take "the necessary and proper measures" to maintain the rights and liberties reserved
to the State or the people. But he lived to see this protracted warfare between the States
and the Union reach a critical point, when it was desirable to know precisely what early protestors
had meant. Madison explained that the resolutions advised only interposition by all the States.
The plural form was universally used, and resistance by no one of them planned. No revolutionary
action was contemplated. The legal remedies to be found in "interposition" he enumerated as
remonstrances, instructions, elections, impeachment, amendment to the Constitution, and finally,
if the usurpations became intolerable, a recourse to the right of revolution. Whatever hope
Jefferson and Madison entertained of a united effort on the part of State Legislatures against
the Alien and Sedition acts was dashed by the dissentient replies from all the New England
States and by the lack of replies from the Southern States. They accounted for it by the tardiness
with which State officials change, not always representing public opinion. The ease with which
they carried all the States except seven in the ensuing election of 1800 enabled them to give
the resolutions a large share of the credit for bringing about the victory.

In the midst of the war fever, Congress assembled in December, 1798, in the city of Philadelphia.
No such glorious pomp and circumstance of war had ever been witnessed at the opening of a session.
When President Adams read his address from the Speaker's platform to the assembled Houses,
notifying them that France showed no inclination to yield, there sat at his right hand George
Washington, summoned from Mount Vernon to become the Lieutenant-General and Commander-in-Chief
of the provisional army against the Republic of France. Near him sat the new major-generals,
Alexander Hamilton and Charles C. Pinckney, the latter one of the rejected envoys to France.
Soon after the opening, Washington returned to his home, leaving Hamilton in command, an arrangement
not consented to without reluctance by Adams, and destined to bear fruit later. The war measures
were continued by the so-called "Logan act" providing punishment for any citizen of the United
States who should, without authority, carry on communication with a foreign government with
an intent to influence any action. It was brought out by Doctor Logan, a well-meaning Republican
of Pennsylvania, who had unofficially gone to France in an effort to avert the threatened war
and had held communication to this end with Talleyrand, Merlin, the First Director, and others.
With the suspicion common to the times, the Federalists thought he was endeavouring to act
as mediator or plotting some league with France in the event of war. This act marked the extreme
limit, to the Republican mind, of the tyranny of the Central Government over citizens of a State.

It might have been fortunate if matters had been put to the test in 1798 and the following
year. If resistance had assumed definite shape it would have been successful or it would have
been overcome. The history of the Union would have been put forward more than half a century,
or it would never have been written. For the time being, each side seemed inclined to go to
the extreme point. The Federalists had taken their places in the Congress determined to ignore
the scores of petitions for the repeal of the acts. They refused to debate motions to rescind,
and came to successful votes as a "silent legislature." Another provisional army was authorised
and further additions made to the regular army and navy. On the other hand, the Legislature
of Kentucky, rendered even more defiant by the timid assurance in the replies of a few legislatures
to her appeal and the decidedly unfavourable answers of a large number, renewed her resolutions
of the preceding year in even stronger language. One new phrase, that "a nullification by those
sovereigns of all unauthorized acts done under color of that instrument is the rightful remedy,"
was important because of the later use made of it. Jefferson had used "nullification" in his
draft of 1798. It was no stronger than other words and phrases, yet, thirty years later, the
words "interpose" and "protest" were passed by as too feeble, and "nullification" adopted as
the proper term for open resistance, But that Kentucky did not mean forcible resistance is
proved by her accompanying statement that she would bow to the laws of the Union because she
was a party to the Federal compact. The Virginia Assembly reaffirmed its principles in resolutions
and an address to the people the following year.

In the midst of the warlike preparations, when the two republics seemed determined to test
the patience of each other; when the Jeffersonians were bound hand and foot by the war craze;
when Hamilton awaited the word which would at last league his country with England against
French fanaticism and would also bring a realisation of his dream of a military command--in
the midst of all this, President Adams, in February, suddenly sent to the Senate the nomination
of the American Minister at The Hague to be an envoy to France! The Federalists were dumfounded
at his change of position. If negotiations were renewed, peace might follow. Peace with France
would mean hostility with England, if not a revival of the danger of absorption by French intrigue.
Proud in their strength, the Federalists had assembled only to be undone and their warlike
preparations made into an idle show by the actions of this headstrong John Adams, who insisted
upon being the President of his own administration, and who would not take seasonable advice
from his party. He had done what the members of his Cabinet had feared, although they now pretended
to be surprised. For three months past he had invited suggestions for envoys in case France
should yield, had drawn up a form of proposed treaty, and had ridiculed the idea of a French
invasion of the United States. "There is no more prospect of seeing a French army here than
in heaven," he said. Enforced by Hamilton, who "chanced to be present," the members of his
Cabinet had wrestled with him for hours in a private conference at Trenton to turn him from
his purpose of conciliation rather than war.

By the time the new envoys, whose appointment the Federalists did not dare openly to oppose,
reached France, the Directory had fallen and Napoleon was First Consul. He saw the usefulness
of the United States to his plans as a friend rather than an enemy, and was ready to bury all
grievances in a treaty. The three envoys, Murray, Ellsworth, and Davie, had no difficulty in
getting the United States relieved from the treaty obligation of 1778 and in arranging compensation
for the damages inflicted on American commerce. Thus was closed by the Treaty of 1800 the series
of events which came so near involving in war the two nations, the allies of a few years before.

Viewed as a part of the diplomatic history of the United States, this war of 1798 is simply
an incident. In the story of the Union it plays a greater part. Regardless of its disastrous
results to the Federalists, it undoubtedly first rallied the people to the standard of a union
for the common defence against a foreign foe. The old Revolutionary spirit had been revived.
A national respect had been created in the eyes of its constituents. This was essential to
a proper respect in the eyes of other nations.

This national spirit, if the Administration had remained in the hands of the Federalists, might
have grown too rapidly for the maintenance of a proper equilibrium. Hamilton, unhampered by
an Adams, would have made the United States a party to European alliances, dangerous to American
originality and American neutrality. Self-government would have assumed some form of European
imitation. Drawn into the Napoleonic wars as allies of Britain, nothing but a miracle could
have saved them from the legitimacy-restoring Congress of Vienna. What changes in American
history might have followed! The desire of Britain for the Louisiana country, the claim of
Spain to the Mississippi below the Ohio, silenced but not abandoned after 1783, the necessity
for neutrality as a basis for the Monroe Doctrine, and the development of America free from
the burden of a war-basis defence, must be considered in this connection. So many are the conditions
and menaces that speculation pauses at predicting the results if the great law of reaction
had not manifested itself at this juncture.

The decision of John Adams to renew negotiations with France thus became a turning-point in
history, because it precipitated the threatened schism among the Federalists, led to the downfall
of the party, and turned the National Government from centralisation toward decentralisation.
Although Adams recognised all this, he nevertheless defended his decision as the most disinterested
and meritorious action in his life. Years after, he said that he desired no other inscription
on his gravestone than, "Here lies John Adams, who took upon himself the responsibility of
the peace with France, in 1800." At the time he showed no spirit of yielding to his advisers,
who declared his action "the great shade on the presidential escutcheon." They said they had
been delivered to the enemy in the house of their friend. Hamilton confessed that the news
of the mission would astonish him if anything from that quarter could astonish. Having complete
mastery over the President's Cabinet and with a large following in Congress, Hamilton had become
almost a dictator in the party during the war craze and the enforcement of the Alien and Sedition
laws. With the talent of a born leader, he assumed charge of the War Department during the
two years that he was a major-general. Adams resented every assumption and attempt at dictation.

"If any one entertains the idea that because I am a President of three votes only I am in the
power of a party," said he, "they shall find that I am no more so than the Constitution forces
upon me. If combinations of senators, generals, and heads of departments shall be formed such
as I cannot resist, and measures are demanded of me that I cannot adopt, my remedy is plain
and certain."

Although not driven to resignation, as here hinted, Adams was from this time sentenced to be
cut off with one term by Hamilton and the party. Meanwhile, Hamilton gave out what his policy
would have been in executing the Alien and Sedition laws. He would have collected a "clever
force" of the national militia and marched them toward Virginia. There was an obvious excuse
for this action in her resolutions, he said. Then he would have measures taken by the National
Government to arrest some alien and so put Virginia to the test of resistance. To the Speaker
of the House, he outlined the steps necessary to be taken if the Union was to be preserved.
It was the swan song of extreme centralisation. He would make the national judiciary districts
much smaller, greatly increasing the number and efficiency of the judges, and also have national
justices of the peace in every county. He would give the Central Government power to construct
roads and canals, would increase the taxes, build a powerful navy, and make permanent the provisional
army. To reduce the dangerous power of the great States and to curb their rivalry with the
nation, he would divide them into smaller States.

It was entirely too late for such unionising suggestions. They had gone out of fashion for
sixty years to come. Reaction had set in. Public sentiment, frequently reproached for its fickleness,
but in reality protective in its vacillation, demanded a change. Federalism had lost prestige.
Its leaders were at enmity. Washington, its unconscious mainstay, was dead.

"The irreparable loss of an estimable man removes a control which was felt and was very salutary,"
wrote Hamilton to a foreign correspondent. "At home, everything is in the main well; except
as to the perverseness and capriciousness of one and the spirit and faction of many. The leading
friends of the government are in a sad dilemma."

The first reaction against an enlarged and all-powerful America had been reached in the history
of parties. The drag on the chariot was now to be felt.

The Republicans were in correspondingly high spirits over the prospective downfall of the party
which had so far perverted the administration of the National Government from the path which
it should have taken. Republican rhymesters exhausted their wit in describing how

  "Brave Hamilton, our warrior bold,
   Strove Adams in the chair to hold,
   By mustering sense, and spleen, and wit,
   To prove him totally unfit."

Madison thought a steady adherence to the principles of prudence all that was needed. "It would
be doubly unwise," he wrote to the impatient Monroe, now Governor of Virginia, "to depart from
this course at a moment when the party which has done the mischief is so industriously co-operating
in its own destruction." The letter laid bare most mercilessly the weakness in the nature and
the defects in the administration of John Adams. Material for the recital had been furnished
Hamilton by his tools in the Cabinet. Hamilton had his revenge on Adams, but he paid dearly
for it in the estimation of every non-partisan American. Simply because the national structure
was not being built to his own plans he would endanger the fabric by giving it over to those
whose theories tended to weakening instead of strengthening it.

CHAPTER XIV

THE ADVENT OF DEMOCRACY

The presidential election of 1800 was epoch-making in several meanings of the term. It was
a reaction against the bold and defiant attitude of the party in power. It was a revolution
of the people. Yet it was neither a dissolution of all government, as it appeared to the defeated,
nor a permanent conversion of the people to democracy, as the victorious element was inclined
to consider it. Sixty years later, the people would rise against the victorious party, grown
to be a slave-truckling organisation, overscrupulous of the individual when the world was turning
to aggregation, and would take the sceptre from them for a quarter of a century at least. The
masses punish arrogance in a party as in an individual. Unlimited success is always fatal.
No sooner has the party passed the safety-line in one direction than the tide of popular favour
turns in the opposite way and leaves it stranded. Owing to such reaction, the National Government
has never approximated anarchy on the individualistic side of Jeffersonianism, nor has it been
in danger of monarchy under Hamiltonian centralising principles at the other extremity. To-day
it is as far from the ideals of the one as the other. Controlled constantly by centrifugal
and centripetal forces, the fixed orbit of the Union has been maintained.

The election of 1800 marked the first transfer of the national control from one party to another.
So accustomed has time made us to these changes, that it is difficult to appreciate the anxiety
with which the people of that day awaited the transition. Well-known party issues, announced
in party platforms, now give a fair assurance of the policies to be pursued. Yet no serious
suggestion emanated from the Federalists that they would not yield to the ballot. Fitness for
self-government was again demonstrated, especially when contrasted with some other American
nations, by the peaceful eviction of one party, yielding to no more warlike weapon in the hands
of its opponents than the suffrage of citizens.

The anxiety of the hour was increased because the national machinery had suddenly come to a
standstill. The defect predicted by its enemies and feared by its friends had suddenly appeared
in the method of electing a President. According to the Constitution, each elector wrote two
names upon his ballot. The man receiving the highest number, if a majority, was declared President,
and the next highest, Vice-President. Every Republican elector chosen in 1800 had written upon
his ballot the names of Jefferson and Burr. Consequently neither was elected, because neither
had a majority. The superiority of Hamilton over Jefferson as a party manager is manifest by
the fact that Hamilton had feared a Federalist tie in the election of 1789 and had taken steps
to prevent it. The Republicans were now in a quandary. John Adams had received only sixty-five
votes, cut off with one term, a vicarious sacrifice, as he thought himself; yet neither Jefferson
nor Burr was elected, each having seventy-three votes. Various rumours disturbed the peace.
It was said that Congress would appoint a President for the interim; that Adams would hold
over; or that Hamilton, disappointed in not being made President, would turn dictator. Governor
Monroe promised Jefferson that he would immediately re-convene the Virginia Assembly "should
any plan of usurpation be attempted at the federal town." Monroe's remedy was an amendment
which would correct the Constitution in this particular. The fathers had not foreseen this
precise accident, but, in their wisdom, had provided a remedy for a defective election by casting
a decision in the House of Representatives, the most popular body next to the electors. Jefferson
had undoubtedly been the choice of the people, and his selection had been the intention of
the Republican electors. This was ultimately accomplished in the House. An amendment to the
Constitution was adopted before the next election to prevent the recurrence of such an accident,
and the Union had by good fortune passed a crisis in a presidential election second only to
that of 1876.

The discomfited Federalists sought an explanation for their defeat in everything save their
own actions. After only twelve years, and twelve years passed in creating an efficient from
a deficient government, the people had turned against them. "No party ever existed knew itself
so little," said John Adams, "or so vainly overrated its own influence and popularity as ours.
None ever understood so ill the causes of its own power or so wantonly destroyed them." State
debt assumption, the bank, the excise, the increased debt, the war expenditures, the direct
taxes, and the Alien and Sedition laws would seem to furnish a sufficient list of reasons for
the downfall of a party, which came into the Administration by only three votes. Yet, by common
consent, the blame for the defeat was placed on the aliens and their presses. "A group of foreign
liars," was the forceful way in which the defeated President explained it, "encouraged by a
few ambitious native gentlemen, have discomfited the education, the talents, the virtues, and
the property of our country." Chagrined that Washington should have two terms and he cut off
with one, smarting under the treacherous letter of Hamilton, to which he speedily framed a
reply, the ex-President "trotted the bogs" back to Massachusetts, as he termed it, without
paying his successor the courtesy of waiting to see him inaugurated. Gadsden, the old Revolutionary
leader of South Carolina, now relegated to the line of spectators, lamented the short-sightedness
of early days in not sufficiently guarding American citizenship from the admission of foreign
meddlers. "Our old-standers and independent men of long, well-tried patriotism, sound understanding,
and good property," said he, "have now in general very little influence in our public matters."
He wished the advice of John Rutledge had been taken. He would have admitted only the sons
of aliens to citizenship.

The new President was to the manor born, but he held theories dangerously akin to those put
forth by the foreign faction, against which the Alien and Sedition laws had been aimed. Speculative
philosophy, however philanthropic in its intent, was heresy to the practical Federalists. Hamilton,
in the midst of the uncertain election, was reported to have given in a toast his preference
for "a dreamer rather than a Catiline," as between Jefferson and Burr. During the campaign,
pamphlets appeared describing Jefferson as a wild philosopher, one who believed the savage
more independent and happy than the civilised man; who preferred newspapers to government;
who believed that a little rebellion now and then was a good thing; who esteemed property and
obligations of so little value as to declare that the actions of one generation were not binding
on the next; who justified the excesses of the French Revolution by saying that if only an
Adam and an Eve were left in every country and left free, it would be better than it had been
before. Memories of Tory confiscations and penalties were sufficiently fresh to give credence
to a rumour that the President-elect contemplated such retributive measures toward his political
opponents. Memories of the disunion sentiments contained in the Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions
were still fresher, although Jefferson's close connection with the latter was not yet generally
known.

Thomas Jefferson was an exponent of the democracy of his day, and with him democracy came into
the National Administration. The "well-born" were discomfited. Yet it was not the democracy
of Andrew Jackson's time. It was a democracy reflected from Europe like everything else in
America at the time. It was the democracy of Montesquieu and the encyclopaedists. It was a
democracy which could be led by a college graduate and lawyer, who was also a gentleman farmer
and a large landholder, bound to his party by a country residence, by being a borrower, and
by speculative theories. Only such aristocratic democracy was possible on the Atlantic coast-plain.
Pure American democracy would be born only after advancing civilisation found a majority in
the mid-valley of the continent, with the barrier of the Alleghenies at its back. It reached
a crude form in Andrew Jackson, the Indian fighter, and a slightly higher type in Abraham Lincoln,
the prairie lawyer.

Jefferson's democracy in the abstract was a kind of political millennium, in which the people
collectively exhibited traits quite different from their individual components. The people,
to Jefferson's mind, were unselfish, by nature good, and needing no restraining bonds. They
were their own censors. His democracy in the concrete took the shape of a great uprising of
the people in 1800, temporarily led astray from the true principles of self-government by the
undue influence of Alexander Hamilton acting through the moneyed interests, but returning joyously
and regenerate to the path of constitutional rectitude. The election of 1800 he pronounced
as real a revolution in the principles of government as was that of 1776 in its form; the material
difference being that one was effected by the sword and the other by the rational and peaceable
method of suffrage. Jefferson had no more conception of a modern political party than had Washington,--the
latter because he saw in them only factions; the former because his party embraced the entire
people.

For several years, it is true, Jefferson had been directing the pens of his lieutenants in
the various States, circulating sound Republican literature, patronising Republican newspapers,
and tabulating Federalist defeats as skilfully as a modern political manager. He encouraged
the people to mass-meetings or county conventions of delegates. This was probably the beginning
of the county political machinery. He lamented that the South had no towns, such as New England
had, which would make smaller units for popular gatherings. The Federalists scorned this political
machinery as too trivial and feared it as too popular. It would have a tendency to make the
people less amenable to the control of their leaders. They preferred to continue the Revolutionary
custom of committees of correspondence to manage party affairs.

All this herculean effort was felt by Jefferson to be necessary to win popular attention and
support from the centralisation of Hamilton, which, to his myopic vision, was monarchism. Years
after, he testified that nothing on earth was more certain than that if he, placed by his office
of Vice-President at the head of the anti-monarchists, had given way and had withdrawn from
his post, the people would have given up in despair and the cause of liberty have been lost.
By his efforts, and the aid of the Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions, the Constitution and
the Union had been saved when "at its last gasp."

As the time of Jefferson's inauguration approached, rumours of revolutionary action grew into
a general alarm lest all the union-making of twelve years should be annihilated and the Federation
days be brought back again. Jefferson's well-known antipathy to taxation and a national debt
caused a rumour that he planned repudiation of the national obligation, perhaps an agrarian
law, and even the distribution of all property. The vested interests were as much alarmed as
ever they were in subsequent elections. "We have seen," cried one holder of national certificates
and a subscriber to the bank, "the French clergy stripped in a night. One vote of Congress
would put our federal debt into the family tomb with the paper money of Revolutionary days."
Among the measures supposed to be contemplated by the victorious "mobocrats," as the Federalists
called them, were the abolition of the United States Senate, destruction of foreign commerce
and public schools, the abolition of internal taxes, the annihilation of the bank, and the
Europeanising of the country by French immigrants. "God is punishing the manifold sins of this
nation by delivering it over to projectors and philosophists," said a New England clergyman.
Governor Strong, of Massachusetts, appointed a day of fasting and prayer, that the first magistrate
and other rulers of the nation might rise superior to private interests and the prejudice of
party. The lower branch of Congress had gone over to the Jeffersonians, and the upper House
would be lost after the next session. No check was possible upon the reformers.

Although neither partisans nor people were in such dangers as imagined by the Federalists,
the National Government might have been seriously impaired by Jefferson and his followers,
if necessity had not been most fortunately on the other side. The contest was very unequal,
as well for Jefferson as for his successors who struggled conscientiously but vainly against
natural laws. Jefferson was misjudged by those who pronounced him opposed to all union. In
later years he could remember but one instance of control vested in the Federal over the State
authorities in a matter purely domestic, and that was the metallic tenders. Nor could he be
said to be opposed to the Federalists as a whole, since he never recognised the party, but
simply a few of its leaders. The latter were for the moment misleading the people. He expected
in time to win all back except "the Coryphaei," or leaders, whom he pronounced incurables.
One of the first unpleasant revelations to Jefferson as President was the fact that a sufficient
number of the people to constitute a party would persist in remaining under the influence of
Hamilton and his fellows in several of the States.

The man who depends thus upon the people and appeals to them as his monitor must risk the charge
of demagogism. Every action differing from custom will be considered a bid for popular applause.
"Jeffersonian simplicity" has been ridiculed as a masquerade for a purpose. Yet it was a protest
against Old World imitation. Never was a salutation made or an address presented to Washington
or Adams at an opening of Congress that Jefferson did not see in it a warning of imminent monarchy.
He applauded the democratic firmness, called "stubbornness" by the Federalists, of Matthew
Lyon, the only member of the House of Representatives who steadfastly refused to march in procession
to the residence of President Adams in order to present to him the accustomed complimentary
address and to partake of his refreshments. Clearly it was the duty of a President of the people
to abolish these borrowed forms of royalty. When elected Vice-President, Jefferson requested
that he might be notified by mail instead of by a messenger. No notification of his election
to the Presidency was necessary since he was presiding over the Senate when elected by the House.

The embryonic city of Washington, surrounded by dense woods, was the scene of Jefferson's inauguration,
and it afforded little for the ceremonies except democratic simplicity. It was announced in
advance that no "white wands" would be carried, in the British style, at this inauguration.
Republican papers had predicted that

  "Philosoph's reign the world will bless,
   Join'd with religion's simpler dress.
   Truth in homely garb shall shine,
   On every state, in every clime."

The inauguration plans provided only a salute from the company of Alexandria riflemen who paraded
before the lodgings of the President-elect, an escort of citizens and members of Congress to
the Senate wing of the unfinished Capitol, and an inconsiderable illumination at night. At
a later time, in an effort to magnify Jeffersonian simplicity, the story was invented that
the President-elect rode unattended to Capitol hill and tied his horse to a tree near the spring.

Since Jefferson had been deprived of his wife by death many years before, the social problem
was greatly simplified. Hospitable to extravagance in his home, as President he must reduce
his entertainment to the simplicity becoming a republic. He soon formulated as part of his
social program: "Levees are done away with. The first communication to the next Congress will
be, like all subsequent ones, by message, to which no answer will be expected." In thus trimming
away the useless ceremonials which had so far attended the beginning of each session of Congress,
obviously copied, as previously said, from the opening of a session of Parliament, Jefferson
was contributing to American individuality and common sense.

The task of restoring the Union to the form the fathers had meant for it and revoking the prerogatives
unconstitutionally given to it was uppermost in Jefferson's mind. The bank had been chartered
for twenty years and was beyond reach at present. The Sedition law and the Alien Friends act
had expired by limitation before Jefferson came in. The Alien Enemies act was harmless because
it rested entirely with the President for execution and was valid only during a foreign war;
since it might be useful later it was allowed to remain on the statute book. But the odious
excise, the stamp taxes, and carriage licenses could be repealed, the probationary period for
naturalisation could be reduced to the former limit, work on the great war-ships could be stopped,
the provisional army allowed to disband, and Hamilton and other generals cut off from the public
treasury. The vast appropriations for the army and navy and the coast defences could be reduced,
and the expense of the ornamental consular service cut down. As rapidly as possible, Congress
carried out these reform suggestions of the new President. The Federalists deplored his penny-wise
economy, especially when fifteen ships, which had cost the Government nearly a million dollars,
were sold for one-fourth that amount.

The work of reform did not stop here. Two branches of the National Government had been brought
back to democratic principles by the will of the people. But the third branch, the Judiciary,
remained in the control of the "monarchists." Jefferson first did justice, as he conceived
it, to Lyon, the only prisoner remaining convicted under the Sedition law. No doubt some of
the Federal judges had been overzealous in securing the conviction of offenders under this
law. Holding life tenure under the Constitution, they could be reached only by impeachment.
This remedy was attempted in order to punish Judge Chase, an Associate Justice of the Supreme
Court, who had shown partiality, it was claimed, in the trial of Fries and Callender five years
before. The requisite two-thirds of the Senate did not vote him guilty, and this method of
curbing the Judiciary failed. "Impeachment is not even a scarecrow," admitted the disappointed
President. The enemy had retired into the stronghold of the Judiciary, as he said, to be fed
from the treasury, and from thence to beat down Republicanism.

In this indictment, Jefferson referred to the act of the closing days of the Federalists, whereby
the number of Federal courts had been increased to twenty-seven. It had been done by creating
six circuit courts, with judges, marshals, and attorneys, instead of requiring the district
judges and Supreme Court justices to make up these courts as had been done under the Judiciary
Act of 1789. The excuse for the creation of these medium courts was that too much labour had
been imposed upon the judges and justices by the old method. But the Republicans believed it
had been done to make places for a large number of irremovable Federalist office-holders. By
another act, a circuit court, with three judges, was created for the District of Columbia,
with an elaborate system of justices' courts and justices of the peace. To fill the large number
of places thus created, the pen of John Adams had been kept busy up to the last hour of his
administration. Hence the "midnight appointments," as they were commonly known. Some of the
district judges were advanced to the new circuit judgeships, and their places filled by the
district attorneys. These were "nominated for promotion," as the message to the Senate termed it.

