They are influenced almost exclusively by two motives: resentment at the suggestion that woman
should be accounted by man as inherently his inferior in certain important respects; and reprehension
of a state of society in which more money, more personal liberty (In reality only more of the
personal liberty which the possession of money confers), more power, more public recognition
and happier physiological conditions fall to the share of man.

A cause which derives its driving force so little from philanthropy and public interest and
so much from offended amour propre and pretensions which are, as we shall see, unjustified,
has in reality no moral prestige.

For its intellectual prestige the movement depends entirely on the fact that it has the advocacy
of a certain number of distinguished men.

It will not be amiss to examine that advocacy.

The "intellectual" whose name appears at the foot of woman's suffrage petitions will, when
you have him by himself, very often Make confession:--"Woman suffrage," he will tell you, "is
not the grave and important cause which the ardent female suffragist deems it to be. Not only
will it not do any of the things which she imagines it is going to do, but it will leave the
world exactly where it is. Still--the concession of votes to women is desirable from the point
of view of symmetry of classification; and it will soothe the ruffled feelings of quite a number
of very worthy women."

It may be laid down as a broad general rule that only two classes of men have the cause of
woman's suffrage really at heart.

The first is the crank who, as soon as he thinks he has discerned a moral principle, immediately
gets into the saddle, and then rides hell-for-leather, reckless of all considerations of public
expediency.

The second is that very curious type of man, who when it is suggested in his hearing that the
species woman is, measured by certain intellectual and moral standards, the inferior of the
species man, solemnly draws himself up and asks, "Are you, sir, aware that you are insulting
my wife?"

To this, the type of man who feels every unfavourable criticism of woman as a personal affront
to himself, John Stuart Mill, had affinities.

We find him writing a letter to the Home Secretary, informing him, in relation to a Parliamentary
Bill restricting the sale of arsenic to male persons over twenty-one years, that it was a "gross
insult to every woman, all women from highest to lowest being deemed unfit to have poison in
their possession, lest they shall commit murder."

We find him again, in a state of indignation with the English marriage laws, preluding his
nuptials with Mrs. Taylor by presenting that lady with a formal charter; renouncing all authority
over her, and promising her security against all infringements of her liberty which might proceed
from himself.

To this lady he is always ascribing credit for his eminent intellectual achievements. And lest
his reader should opine that woman stands somewhat in the shade with respect to her own intellectual
triumphs, Mill undertakes the explanation. "Felicitous thoughts," he tells us, "occur by hundreds
to every woman of intellect. But they are mostly lost for want of a husband or friend . . .
to estimate them properly, and to bring them before the world; and even when they are brought
before it they generally appear as his ideas."

Not only did Mill see woman and all her works through an optical medium which gave images like
this; but there was upon his retina a large blind area. By reason of this last it was inapprehensible
to him that there could be an objection to the sexes co-operating indiscriminately in work.
It was beyond his ken that the sex element would under these conditions invade whole departments
of life which are now free from it. As he saw things, there was in point of fact a risk of
the human race dying out by reason of the inadequate imperativeness of its sexual instincts.

Mill's unfaithfulness to the facts cannot, however, all be put down to constitutional defects
of vision. When he deals with woman he is no longer scrupulously conscientious. Further due is perhaps
acknowledgment to Lieut.-Col. Lockwood, not also for the section for-- aeroplane development
which he has contributed to the work, but only on his kindly assistance
in connection on this section with aerostation.
For no upright mind can fail to see that the woman who lives in a condition of financial dependence
upon man has no moral claim to unrestricted liberty. The suspicion of Mill's honesty which
is thus awakened is confirmed by further critical reading of his treatise. In that skilful
tractate one comes across, every here and there, a suggestio falsi [suggestion of a falsehood],
or a suppressio veri [suppression of the truth], or a fallacious analogy nebulously expressed,
or a mendacious metaphor, or a passage which is contrived to lead off attention from some weak
point in the feminist case.[1] Moreover, Mill was unmindful of the obligations of intellectual
morality when he allowed his stepdaughter, in connexion with feminist questions, to draft letters
[2] which went forward as his own.

[1] Vide [See] in this connexion the incidental references to Mill on pp. 50, 81 footnote,
and 139. [2] Vide Letters of John Stuart Mill, vol. ii, pp. 51, 79, 80, 100, 141, 157, 238,
239, 247, 288, and 349. There is yet another factor which must be kept in mind in connexion
with the writings of Mill. It was the special characteristic of the man to set out to tackle
concrete problems and then to spend his strength upon abstractions.

In his Political Economy, where his proper subject matter was man with his full equipment of
impulses, Mill took as his theme an abstraction: an economic man who is actuated solely by
the desire of gain. He then worked out in great elaboration the course of conduct which an
aggregate of these puppets of his imagination would pursue. Having persuaded

himself, after this, that he had in his possession a vade mecum [handbook] to the comprehension
of human societies, he now took it upon himself to expound the principles which govern and
direct these. Until such time as this procedure was unmasked, Mill's political economy enjoyed
an unquestioned authority.

Exactly the same plan was followed by Mill in handling the question of woman's suffrage. Instead
of dealing with woman as she is, and with woman placed in a setting of actually subsisting
conditions, Mill takes as his theme a woman who is a creature of his imagination. This woman
is, by assumption, in mental endowments a replica of man. She lives in a world which is, by
tacit assumption, free from complications of sex. And, if practical considerations had ever
come into the purview of Mill's mind, she would, by tacit assumption, be paying her own way,
and be making full personal and financial contributions to the State. It is in connexion with
this fictitious woman that Mill sets himself to work out the benefits which women would derive
from co-partnership with men in the government of the State, and those which such co-partnership
would confer on the community. Finally, practising again upon himself the same imposition as
in his Political Economy, this unpractical trafficker in abstractions sets out to persuade
his reader that he has, by dealing with fictions of the mind, effectively grappled with the
concrete problem of woman's suffrage.

This, then, is the philosopher who gives intellectual prestige to the Woman's Suffrage cause.

But is there not, let us in the end ask ourselves, here and there at least, a man who is of
real account in the world of affairs, and who is--not simply a luke-warm Platonic friend or
an opportunist advocate--but an impassioned promoter of the woman's suffrage movement? Hitherto,
there has been no mind lives at supply a account to how the aeroplane and the claim to to-day came
to being, but each uprightness who has treated upon the subject has devoted his attending of some
phase or the lead.

We may now pass on to deal with the arguments by which the woman suffragist has sought to establish
her case.

Let us note that the suffragist does not--except, perhaps, when she is addressing herself to
unfledged girls and to the sexually embittered--really produce much effect by inveighing against
the legal grievances of woman under the bastardy laws, the divorce laws, and the law which
fixes the legal age of consent. This kind of appeal does not go down with the ordinary man
and woman--first, because there are many who think that in spite of occasional hardships the
public advantage is, on the whole, very well served by the existing laws; secondly, because
any alterations which might be desirable could very easily be made without recourse to woman's
suffrage; and thirdly, because the suffragist consistently acts on the principle of bringing
up against man everything that can possibly be brought up against him, and of never allowing
anything to appear on the credit side of the ledger.

The arguments which the woman suffragist really places confidence in are those which are provided
by undefined general principles, apothegms set out in the form of axioms, formulae which are
vehicles for fallacies, ambiguous abstract terms, and "question-begging" epithets. Your ordinary
unsophisticated man and woman stand almost helpless against arguments of this kind.

For these bring to bear moral pressure upon human nature.  And when the intellect is confused
by a word or formula which conveys an ethical appeal, one may very easily find oneself committed
to action which one's unbiased reason would never have approved. The very first requirement
in connexion with any word or phrase which conveys a moral exhortation is, therefore, to analyse
it and find out its true signification. For all such concepts as justice, rights, freedom,
chivalry--and it is with these that we shall be specially concerned--are, when properly defined
and understood beacon-lights, but when ill understood and undefined, stumbling-blocks in the
path of humanity.

We may appropriately begin by analysing the term "Woman's Rights" and the correlative formula
"Woman has a right to the suffrage."

Our attention here immediately focuses upon the term right.  It is one of the most important
of the verbal agents by which the suffragist hopes to bring moral pressure to bear upon man.

Now, the term right denotes in its juridical sense a debt which is owed to us by the State.
A right is created when the community binds itself to us, its individual members, to intervene
by force to restrain any one from interfering with us, and to protect us in the enjoyment of
our faculties, privileges, and property.

The term is capable of being given a wider meaning.  While no one could appropriately speak
of our having a right to health or anything that man has not the power to bestow, it is arguable
that there are, independent of and antecedent to law, elementary rights: a right to freedom;
a right to protection against personal violence; a right to the protection of our property;
and a right to the impartial administration of regulations which are binding upon all. Such
a use of the term right could be justified on the ground that everybody would be willing to
make personal sacrifices, and to combine with his fellows for the purpose of securing these
essentials--an understanding which would almost amount to legal sanction.

