The confession of the Dauphine was long.  Extreme unction was administered immediately afterwards;
and the holy viaticum directly. An hour afterwards the Dauphine desired the prayers for the
dying to be said.  They told her she was not yet in that state, and with words of consolation
exhorted her to try and get to sleep.  Seven doctors of the Court and of Paris were sent for.
They consulted together in the presence of the King and Madame de Maintenon.  All with one
voice were in favour of bleeding at the foot; and in case it did not have the effect desired,
to give an emetic at the end of the night.  The bleeding was executed at seven o'clock in the
evening.  The return of the fever came and was found less violent than the preceding.  The
night was cruel.  The King came early next morning to see the Dauphine.  The emetic she took
at about nine o'clock had little effect.  The day passed in symptoms each more sad than the
other; consciousness only at rare intervals.  All at once towards evening, the whole chamber
fell into dismay.  A number of people were allowed to enter although the King was there.  Just
before she expired he left, mounted into his coach at the foot of the grand staircase, and
with Madame de Maintenon and Madame de Caylus went away to Marly.  They were both in the most
bitter grief, and had not the courage to go to the Dauphin.  Upon arriving at Marly the King
supped in his own room; and passed a short time with M. d'Orleans and his natural children.
M. le Duc de Berry, entirely occupied with his affliction, which was great and real, had remained
at Versailles with Madame la Duchesse de Berry, who, transported with joy upon seeing herself
delivered from a powerful rival, to whom, however, she owed all, made her face do duty for
her heart.

Monseigneur le Dauphin, ill and agitated by the most bitter grief, kept his chamber; but on
Saturday morning the 13th, being pressed to go to Marly to avoid the horror of the noise overhead
where the Dauphine was lying dead, he set out for that place at seven o'clock in the morning.
Shortly after arriving he heard mass in the chapel, and thence was carried in a chair to the
window of one of his rooms.  Madame de Maintenon came to see him there afterwards; the anguish
of the interview was speedily too much for her, and she went away.  Early in the morning I
went uninvited to see M. le Dauphin.  He showed me that he perceived this with an air of gentleness
and of affection which penetrated me.  But I was terrified with his looks, constrained, fixed
and with something wild about them, with the change in his face and with the marks there, livid
rather than red, that I observed in good number and large; marks observed by the others also.
The Dauphin was standing.  In a few minutes he was apprised that the King had awaked.  The
tears that he had restrained, now rolled from his eyes; he turned round at the news but said
nothing, remaining stock still.  His three attendants proposed to him, once or twice, that
he should go to the King.  He neither spoke nor stirred.  I approached and made signs to him
to go, then softly spoke to the same effect.  Seeing that he still remained speechless and
motionless, I made bold to take his arm, representing to him that sooner or later he must see
the King, who expected him, and assuredly with the desire to see and embrace him; and pressing
him in this manner, I took the liberty to gently push him.  He cast upon me a look that pierced
my soul and went away: I followed him some few steps and then withdrew to recover breath; I
never saw him again.  May I, by the mercy of God, see him eternally where God's goodness doubtless
has placed him!

The Dauphin reached the chamber of the King, full just then of company. As soon as, he appeared
the King called him and embraced him tenderly again and again.  These first moments, so touching,
passed in words broken by sobs and tears.

Shortly afterwards the King looking at the Dauphin was terrified by the same things that had
previously struck me with affright.  Everybody around was so, also the doctors more than the
others.  The King ordered them to feel his pulse; that they found bad, so they said afterwards;
for the time they contented themselves with saying it was not regular, and that the Dauphin
would do wisely to go to bed.  The King embraced him again, recommended him very tenderly to
take care of himself, and ordered him to go to bed.  He obeyed and rose no more!

It was now late in the morning.  The King had passed a cruel night and had a bad headache;
he saw at his dinner, the few courtiers who presented themselves, and after dinner went to
the Dauphin.  The fever had augmented: the pulse was worse than before.  The King passed into
the apartments of Madame de Maintenon, and the Dauphin was left with his attendants and his
doctors.  He spent the day in prayers and holy reading.

On the morrow, Sunday, the uneasiness felt on account of the Dauphin augmented.  He himself
did not conceal his belief that he should never rise again, and that the plot Boudin had warned
him of, had been executed.  He explained himself to this effect more than once, and always
with a disdain of earthly grandeur and an incomparable submission and love of God.  It is impossible
to describe the general consternation.  On Monday the 15th, the King was bled.  The Dauphin
was no better than before.  The King and Madame de Maintenon saw him separately several times
during the day, which was passed in prayers and reading.

On Tuesday, the 16th, the Dauphin was worse.  He felt himself devoured by a consuming fire,
which the external fever did not seem to justify; but the pulse was very extraordinary and
exceedingly menacing.  This was a deceptive day.  The marks on the Dauphin's face extended
over all the body.  They were regarded as the marks of measles.  Hope arose thereon, but the
doctors and the most clear-sighted of the Court could not forget that these same marks had
shown themselves on the body of the Dauphine; a fact unknown out of her chamber until after death.

On Wednesday, the 17th, the malady considerably increased.  I had news at all moments of the
Dauphin's state from Cheverny, an excellent apothecary of the King and of my family.  He hid
nothing from us.  He had told us what he thought of the Dauphine's illness; he told us now
what he thought of the Dauphin's.  I no longer hoped therefore, or rather I hoped to the end,
against all hope.

On Wednesday the pains increased.  They were like a devouring fire, but more violent than ever.
Very late into the evening the Dauphin sent to the King for permission to receive the communion
early the next morning, without ceremony and without display, at the mass performed in his
chamber.  Nobody heard of this, that evening; it was not known until the following morning.
I was in extreme desolation; I scarcely saw the King once a day.  I did nothing but go in quest
of news several times a day, and to the house of M. de Chevreuse, where I was completely free.
M. de Chevreuse--always calm, always sanguine--endeavoured to prove to us by his medical reasonings
that there was more reason to hope than to fear, but he did so with a tranquillity that roused
my impatience.  I returned home to pass a cruel night.

On Thursday morning, the 18th of February, I learned that the Dauphin, who had waited for midnight
with impatience, had heard mass immediately after the communion, had passed two hours in devout
communication with God, and that his reason then became embarrassed.  Madame de Saint-Simon
told me afterwards that he had received extreme unction: in fine, that he died at half-past
eight.  These memoirs are not written to describe my private sentiments.  But in reading them,--if,
long after me, they shall ever appear, my state and that of Madame de Saint-Simon will only
too keenly be felt.  I will content myself with saying, that the first days after the Dauphin's
death scarcely appeared to us more than moments; that I wished to quit all, to withdraw from
the Court and the world, and that I was only hindered by the wisdom, conduct, and power over
me of Madame de Saint-Simon, who yet had much trouble to subdue my sorrowful desires. Let me
say something now of the young prince and his spouse, whom we thus lost in such quick succession.

Never did princess arrive amongst us so young with so much instruction, or with such capacity
to profit by instruction.  Her skilful father, who thoroughly knew our Court, had painted it
to her, and had made her acquainted with the only manner of making herself happy there.  From
the first moment of her arrival she had acted upon his lessons.  Gentle, timid, but adroit,
fearing to give the slightest pain to anybody, and though all lightness and vivacity, very
capable of far-stretching views; constraint, even to annoyance, cost her nothing, though she
felt all its weight.  Complacency was natural to her, flowed from her, and was exhibited towards
every member of the Court.

Regularly plain, with cheeks hanging, a forehead too prominent, a nose without meaning, thick
biting lips, hair and eye-brows of dark chestnut, and well planted; the most speaking and most
beautiful eyes in the world; few teeth, and those all rotten, about which she was the first
to talk and jest; the most beautiful complexion and skin; not much bosom, but what there was
admirable; the throat long, with the suspicion of a goitre, which did not ill become her; her
head carried gallantly, majestically, gracefully; her mien noble; her smile most expressive;
her figure long, round, slender, easy, perfectly-shaped; her walk that of a goddess upon the
clouds: with such qualifications she pleased supremely. Grace accompanied her every step, and
shone through her manners and her most ordinary conversation.  An air always simple and natural,
often naive, but seasoned with wit-this with the ease peculiar to her, charmed all who approached
her, and communicated itself to them.  She wished to please even the most useless and the most
ordinary persons, and yet without making an effort to do so.  You were tempted to believe her
wholly and solely devoted to those with whom she found herself.  Her gaiety--young, quick,
and active--animated all; and her nymph-like lightness carried her everywhere, like a whirlwind
which fills several places at once, and gives them movement and life.  She was the ornament
of all diversions, the life and soul of all pleasure, and at balls ravished everybody by the
justness and perfection of her dancing.  She could be amused by playing for small sums but
liked high gambling better, and was an excellent, good-tempered, and bold gamester.

She spared nothing, not even her health, to gain Madame de Maintenon, and through her the King.
Her suppleness towards them was without example, and never for a moment was at fault.  She
accompanied it with all the discretion that her knowledge of them, acquired by study and experience,
had given her, and could measure their dispositions to an inch.  In this way she had acquired
a familiarity with them such as none of the King's children, not even the bastards, had approached.

In public, serious, measured, with the King, and in timid decorum with Madame de Maintenon,
whom she never addressed except as my aunt, thus prettily confounding friendship and rank.
In private, prattling, skipping, flying around them, now perched upon the sides of their arm-
chairs, now playing upon their knees, she clasped them round the neck, embraced them, kissed
them, caressed them, rumpled them, tickled them under the chin, tormented them, rummaged their
tables, their papers, their letters, broke open the seals, and read the contents in spite of
opposition, if she saw that her waggeries were likely to be received in good part.  When the
King was with his ministers, when he received couriers, when the most important affairs were
under discussion, she was present, and with such liberty, that, hearing the King and Madame
de Maintenon speak one evening with affection of the Court of England, at the time when peace
was hoped for from Queen Anne, "My aunt," she said, "you must admit that in England the queens
govern better than the kings, and do you know why, my aunt?" asked she, running about and gambolling
all the time, "because under kings it is women who govern, and men under queens."  The joke
is that they both laughed, and said she was right.

The King really could not do without her.  Everything went wrong with him if she was not by;
even at his public supper, if she were away an additional cloud of seriousness and silence
settled around him.  She took great care to see him every day upon arriving and departing;
and if some ball in winter, or some pleasure party in summer, made her lose half the night,
she  nevertheless adjusted things so well that she went and embraced the King the moment he
was up, and amused him with a description of the fete.

She was so far removed from the thoughts of death, that on Candlemas-day she talked with Madame
de Saint-Simon of people who had died since she had been at Court, and of what she would herself
do in old age, of the life she would lead, and of such like matters.  Alas!  it pleased God,
for our misfortune, to dispose of her differently.

With all her coquetry--and she was not wanting in it--never woman seemed to take less heed
of her appearance; her toilette was finished in a moment, she cared nothing for finery except
at balls and fetes; if she displayed a little at other times it was simply in order to please
the king.  If the Court subsisted after her it was only to languish.  Never was princess so
regretted, never one so worthy of it: regrets have not yet passed away, the involuntary and
secret bitterness they caused still remain, with a frightful blank not yet filled up.

Let me now turn to the Dauphin.

The youth of this prince made every one tremble.  Stern and choleric to the last degree, and
even against inanimate objects; impetuous with frenzy, incapable of suffering the slightest
resistance even from the hours and the elements, without flying into a passion that threatened
to destroy his body; obstinate to excess; passionately fond of all kind of voluptuousness,
of women, with even a worse passion strongly developed at the same time; fond not less of wine,
good living, hunting, music, and gaming, in which last he could not endure to be beaten; in
fine, abandoned to every passion, and transported by every pleasure; oftentimes wild, naturally
disposed towards cruelty; barbarous in raillery, and with an all-powerful capacity for ridicule.

He looked down upon all men as from the sky, as atoms with whom he had nothing in common; even
his brothers scarcely appeared connecting links between himself and human nature, although
all had been educated together in perfect equality.  His sense and penetration shone through
everything. His replies, even in anger, astonished everybody.  He amused himself with the most
abstract knowledge.  The extent and vivacity of his intellect were prodigious, and rendered
him incapable of applying himself to one study at a time.

So much intelligence and of such a kind, joined to such vivacity, sensibility, and passion,
rendered his education difficult.  But God, who is the master of all hearts, and whose divine
spirit breathes where he wishes, worked a miracle on this prince between his eighteenth and
twentieth years.  From this abyss he came out affable, gentle, humane, moderate, patient, modest,
penitent, and humble; and austere, even more than harmonised with his position.  Devoted to
his duties, feeling them to be immense, he thought only how to unite the duties of son and
subject with those he saw to be destined for himself.  The shortness of each day was his only
sorrow.  All his force, all his consolation, was in prayer and pious reading.  He clung with
joy to the cross of his Saviour, repenting sincerely of his past pride.  The King, with his
outside devotion, soon saw with secret displeasure his own life censured by that of a prince
so young, who refused himself a new desk in order to give the money it would cost to the poor,
and who did not care to accept some new gilding with which it was proposed to furnish his little
room. Madame la Duchesse de Bourgogne, alarmed at so austere a spouse, left nothing undone
in order to soften him.  Her charms, with which he was smitten, the cunning and the unbridled
importunities of the young ladies of her suite, disguised in a hundred different forms--the
attraction of parties and pleasures to which he was far from insensible, all were displayed
every day..  But for a long time he behaved not like a prince but like a novice.  On one occasion
he refused to be present at a ball on Twelfth Night, and in various ways made himself ridiculous
at Court. In due time, however, he comprehended that the faithful performance of the duties
proper to the state in which he had been placed, would be the conduct most agreeable to God.
The bark of the tree, little by little, grew softer without affecting the solidity of the trunk.
He applied himself to the studies which were necessary, in order to instruct himself in public
affairs, and at the same time he lent himself more to the world, doing so with so much grace,
with such a natural air, that everybody soon began to grow reconciled to him.

The discernment of this prince was such, that, like the bee, he gathered the most perfect substance
from the best and most beautiful flowers.  He tried to fathom men, to draw from them the instruction
and the light that he could hope for.  He conferred sometimes, but rarely, with others besides
his chosen few.  I was the only one, not of that number, who had complete access to him; with
me he opened his heart upon the present and the future with confidence, with sageness, with
discretion.  A volume would not describe sufficiently my private interviews with this prince,
what love of good!  what forgetfulness of self!  what researches!  what fruit!  what purity
of purpose!--May I say it?  what reflection of the divinity in that mind, candid, simple, strong,
which as much as is possible here below had preserved the image of its maker!

If you had business, and thought of opening it to him, say for a quarter of an hour or half
an hour, he gave you oftentimes two hours or more, according as he found himself at liberty.
Yet he was without verbiage, compliments, prefaces, pleasantries, or other hindrances; went
straight to the point, and allowed you to go also.

His undue scruples of devotion diminished every day, as he found himself face to face with
the world; above all, he was well cured of the inclination for piety in preference to talent,
that is to say, for making a man ambassador, minister, or general, rather on account of his
devotedness than of his capacity or experience.  He saw the danger of inducing hypocrisy by
placing devotion too high as a qualification for employ.

It was he who was not afraid to say publicly, in the Salon of Marly, that "a king is made for
his subjects, and not the subjects for him;" a remark that, except under his own reign, which
God did not permit, would have been the most frightful blasphemy.

Great God!  what a spectacle you gave to us in him.  What tender but tranquil views he had!
What submission and love of God!  What a consciousness of his own nothingness, and of his sins!
What a magnificent idea of the infinite mercy!  What religious and humble fear! What tempered
confidence!  What patience!

What constant goodness for all who approached him!  France fell, in fine, under this last chastisement.
God showed to her a prince she merited not.  The earth was not worthy of him; he was ripe already
for the blessed eternity!

CHAPTER LX

The consternation at the event that had taken place was real and general; it penetrated to
foreign lands and courts.  Whilst the people wept for him who thought only of their relief,
and all France lamented a prince who only wished to reign in order to render it flourishing
and happy, the sovereigns of Europe publicly lamented him whom they regarded as their example,
and whose virtues were preparing him to be their arbitrator, and the peaceful and revered moderator
of nations.  The Pope was so touched that he resolved of himself to set aside all rule and
hold expressly a consistory; deplored there the infinite loss the church and all Christianity
had sustained, and pronounced a complete eulogium of the prince who caused the just regrets
of all Europe.

On Saturday, the 13th, the corpse of the Dauphine was left in its bed with uncovered face,
and opened the same evening at eleven in presence of all the faculty.  On the 15th it was placed
in the grand cabinet, where masses were continually said.

On Friday, the 19th, the corpse of Monseigneur le Dauphin was opened, a little more than twenty-four
hours after his death, also in presence of all the faculty.  His heart was immediately carried
to Versailles, and placed by the side of that of Madame la Dauphine.  Both were afterwards
taken to the Val de Grace.  They arrived at midnight with a numerous cortege.  All was finished
in two hours.  The corpse of Monseigneur le Dauphin was afterwards carried from Marly to Versailles,
and placed by the side of Madame la Dauphine on the same estrade.

On Tuesday, the 23rd February, the two bodies were taken from Versailles to Saint-Denis in
the same chariot.  The procession began to enter Paris by the Porte Saint-Honore at two o'clock
in the morning, and arrived between seven and eight o'clock in the morning at Saint-Denis.
There was great order in Paris, and no confusion.

On Tuesday, the 8th March, Monseigneur le Duc de Bretagne, eldest son of Monsieur le Dauphin,
who had succeeded to the name and rank of his father, being then only five years and some months
old, and who had been seized with measles within a few days, expired, in spite of all the remedies
given him.  His brother, M. le Duc d'Anjou, who still sucked, was taken ill at the same time,
but thanks to the care of the Duchesse de Ventadour, whom in after life he never forgot, and
who administered an antidote, escaped, and is now King.

Thus three Dauphins died in less than a year, and father, mother, and eldest son in twenty-four
days!  On Wednesday, the 9th of March, the corpse of the little Dauphin was opened at night,
and without any ceremony his heart was taken to the Val de Grace, his body to Saint- Denis,
and placed by the side of those of his father and mother.  M. le Duc d'Anjou, now, sole remaining
child, succeeded to the title and to the rank of Dauphin.

I have said that the bodies of the Dauphin and the Dauphine were opened in presence of all
the faculty.  The report made upon the opening of the latter was not consolatory.  Only one
of the doctors declared there were no signs of poison; the rest were of the opposite opinion.
When the body of the Dauphin was opened, everybody was terrified.  His viscera were all dissolved;
his heart had no consistency; its substance flowed through the hands of those who tried to
hold it; an intolerable odour, too, filled the apartment.  The majority of the doctors declared
they saw in all this the effect of a very subtle and very violent poison, which had consumed
all the interior of the body, like a burning fire.  As before, there was one of their number
who held different views, but this was Marechal, who declared that to persuade the King of
the existence of secret enemies of his family would be to kill him by degrees.

This medical opinion that the cause of the Dauphin's and the Dauphine's death was poison, soon
spread like wildfire over the Court and the city. Public indignation fell upon M. d'Orleans,
who was at once pointed out as the poisoner.  The rapidity with which this rumour filled the
Court, Paris, the provinces, the least frequented places, the most isolated monasteries, the
most deserted solitudes, all foreign countries and all the peoples of Europe, recalled to me
the efforts of the cabal, which had previously spread such black reports against the honour
of him whom all the world now wept, and showed that the cabal, though dispersed, was not dissolved.

In effect M. du Maine, now the head of the cabal, who had all to gain and nothing to lose by
the death of the Dauphin and Dauphine, from both of whom he had studiously held aloof, and
who thoroughly disliked M. d'Orleans, did all in his power to circulate this odious report.
He communicated it to Madame de Maintenon, by whom it reached the King.  In a short time all
the Court, down to the meanest valets, publicly cried vengeance upon M. d'Orleans, with an
air of the most unbridled indignation and of perfect security.

M. d'Orleans, with respect to the two losses that afflicted the public, had an interest the
most directly opposite to that of M. du Maine; he had everything to gain by the life of the
Dauphin and Dauphine, and unless he had been a monster vomited forth from hell he could not
have been guilty of the crime with which he was charged.  Nevertheless, the odious accusation
flew from mouth to mouth, and took refuge in every breast.

Let us compare the interest M. d'Orleans had in the life of the Dauphin with the interest M.
du Maine had in his death, and then look about for the poisoner.  But this is not all.  Let
us remember how M. le Duc d'Orleans was treated by Monseigneur, and yet what genuine grief
he displayed at the death of that prince.  What a contrast was this conduct with that of M.
du Maine at another time, who, after leaving the King (Louis XIV.) at the point of death, delivered
over to an ignorant peasant, imitated that peasant so naturally and so pleasantly, that bursts
of laughter extended to the gallery, and scandalized the passers- by.  This is a celebrated
and very characteristic fact, which will find its proper place if I live long enough to carry
these memoirs up to the death of the King.

M. d'Orleans was, however, already in such bad odour, that people were ready to believe anything
to his discredit.  They drank in this new report so rapidly, that on the 17th of February,
as he went with Madame to give the holy water to the corpse of the Dauphine, the crowd of the
people threw out all sorts of accusations against him, which both he and Madame very distinctly
heard, without daring to show it, and were in trouble, embarrassment, and indignation, as may
be imagined.  There was even ground for fearing worse from an excited and credulous populace
when M. d'Orleans went alone to give the holy water to the corpse of the Dauphin.  For he had
to endure on his passage atrocious insults from a populace which uttered aloud the most frightful
observations, which pointed the finger at him with the coarsest epithets, and which believed
it was doing him a favour in not falling upon him and tearing him to pieces!

Similar circumstances took place at the funeral procession.  The streets resounded more with
cries of indignation against M. d'Orleans and abuse of him than with grief.  Silent precautions
were not forgotten in Paris in order to check the public fury, the boiling over of which was
feared at different moments.  The people recompensed themselves by gestures, cries, and other
atrocities, vomited against M. d'Orleans.  Near the Palais Royal, before which the procession
passed, the increase of shouts, of cries, of abuse, was so great, that for some minutes everything
was to be feared.

It may be imagined what use M. du Maine contrived to make of the public folly, the rumours
of the Paris cafes, the feeling of the salon of Marly, that of the Parliament, the reports
that arrived from the provinces and foreign countries.  In a short time so overpowered was
M. d'Orleans by the feeling against him everywhere exhibited, that acting upon very ill- judged
advice he spoke to the King upon the subject, and begged to be allowed to surrender himself
as a prisoner at the Bastille, until his character was cleared from stain.

I was terribly annoyed when I heard that M. d'Orleans had taken this step, which could not
possibly lead to good.  I had quite another sort of scheme in my head which I should have proposed
to him had I known of his resolve.  Fortunately, however, the King was persuaded not to grant
M. d'Orleans' request, out of which therefore nothing came.  The Duke meanwhile lived more
abandoned by everybody than ever; if in the salon he approached a group of courtiers, each,
without the least hesitation, turned to the right or to the left and went elsewhere, so that
it was impossible for him to accost anybody except by surprise, and if he did so, he was left
alone directly after with the most marked indecency. In a word, I was the only person, I say
distinctly, the only person, who spoke to M. d'Orleans as before.  Whether in his own house
or in the palace I conversed with him, seated myself by his side in a corner of the salon,
where assuredly we had no third person to fear, and walked with him in the gardens under the
very windows of the King and of Madame de Maintenon.

Nevertheless, all my friends warned me that if I pursued this conduct so opposite to that in
vogue, I should assuredly fall into disgrace.  I held firm.  I thought that when we did not
believe our friends guilty we ought not to desert them, but, on the contrary, to draw closer
to them, as by honour bound, give them the consolation due from us, and show thus to the world
our hatred for calumny.  My friends insisted; gave me to understand that the King disapproved
my conduct, that Madame de Maintenon was annoyed at it: they forgot nothing to awaken my fears.
But I was insensible to all they said to me, and did not omit seeing M. d'Orleans a single
day; often stopping with him two and three hours at a time.

A few weeks had passed over thus, when one morning M. de Beauvilliers called upon me, and urged
me to plead business, and at once withdraw to La Ferme; intimating that if I did not do so
of my own accord, I should be compelled by an order from the King.  He never explained himself
more fully, but I have always remained persuaded that the King or Madame de Maintenon had sent
him to me, and had told him that I should be banished if I did not banish myself.  Neither
my absence nor my departure made any stir; nobody suspected anything.  I was carefully informed,
without knowing by whom, when my exile was likely to end: and I returned, after a month or
five weeks, straight to the Court, where I kept up the same intimacy with M. d'Orleans as before.

