They cast anchor at Cape St. Anthony on the west end of Cuba. After a considerable delay at
this place they started out again to resume their voyage, but it was not long before they perceived,
to their horror, three Spanish vessels coming towards them. It was impossible for a very large
ship, manned by an extremely small crew, to sail away from those fully equipped vessels, and
as to attempting to defend themselves against the overwhelming power of the antagonists, that
was too absurd to be thought of even by such a reckless fellow as Bartholemy. So, when the
ship was hailed by the Spanish vessels he lay to and waited until a boat's crew boarded him.
With the eye of a nautical man the Spanish captain of one of the ships perceived that something
was the matter with this vessel, for its sails and rigging were terribly cut up in the long
fight through which it had passed, and of course he wanted to know what had happened. When
he found that the great ship was in the possession of a very small body of pirates, Bartholemy
and his men were immediately made prisoners, taken on board the Spanish ship, stripped of everything
they possessed, even their clothes, and shut up in the hold. A crew from the Spanish ships
was sent to man the vessel which had been captured, and then the little fleet set sail for
San Francisco in Campeachy.

An hour had worked a very great change in the fortunes of Bartholemy and his men; in the fine
cabin of their grand prize they had feasted and sung, and had gloried over their wonderful
success, and now, in the vessel of their captor, they were shut up in the dark, to be enslaved
or perhaps executed.

But it is not likely that any one of them either despaired or repented; these are sentiments
very little in use by pirates.

Chapter VII

The Pirate who could not Swim

When the little fleet of Spanish vessels, including the one which had been captured by Bartholemy
Portuguez and his men, were on their way to Campeachy, they met with very stormy weather so
that they were separated, and the ship which contained Bartholemy and his companions arrived
first at the port for which they were bound.

The captain, who had Bartholemy and the others in charge, did not know what an important capture
he had made; he supposed that these pirates were ordinary buccaneers, and it appears that it
was his intention to keep them as his own private prisoners, for, as they were all very able-bodied
men, they would be extremely useful on a ship. But when his vessel was safely moored, and it
became known in the town that he had a company of pirates on board, a great many people came
from shore to see these savage men, who were probably looked upon very much as if they were
a menagerie of wild beasts brought from foreign lands.

Among the sightseers who came to the ship was a merchant of the town who had seen Bartholemy
before, and who had heard of his various exploits. He therefore went to the captain of the
vessel and informed him that he had on board one of the very worst pirates in the whole world,
whose wicked deeds were well known in various parts of the West Indies, and who ought immediately
to be delivered up to the civil authorities. This proposal, however, met with no favor from
the Spanish captain, who had found Bartholemy a very quiet man, and could see that he was a
very strong one, and he did not at all desire to give up such a valuable addition to his crew.
But the merchant grew very angry, for he knew that Bartholemy had inflicted great injury on
Spanish commerce, and as the captain would not listen to him, he went to the Governor of the
town and reported the case. When this dignitary heard the story he immediately sent a party
of officers to the ship, and commanded the captain to deliver the pirate leader into their
charge. The other men were left where they were, but Bartholemy was taken away and confined
in another ship. The merchant, who seemed to know a great deal about him, informed the authorities
that this terrible pirate had been captured several times, but that he had always managed to
escape, and, therefore, he was put in irons, and preparations were made to execute him on the
next day; for, from what he had heard, the Governor considered that this pirate was no better
than a wild beast, and that he should be put to death without even the formality of a trial.

But there was a Spanish soldier on board the ship who seemed to have had some pity, or perhaps
some admiration, for the daring pirate, and he thought that if he were to be hung the next
day it was no more than right to let him know it, so that when he went in to take some food
to Bartholemy he told him what was to happen.

Now this pirate captain was a man who always wanted to have a share in what was to happen,
and he immediately racked his brain to find out what he could do in this case. He had never
been in a more desperate situation, but he did not lose heart, and immediately set to work
to free himself from his irons, which were probably very clumsy affairs. At last, caring little
how much he scratched and tore his skin, he succeeded in getting rid of his fetters, and could
move about as freely as a tiger in a cage. To get out of this cage was Bartholemy's first object.
It would be comparatively easy, because in the course of time some one would come into the
hold, and the athletic buccaneer thought that he could easily get the better of whoever might
open the hatch. But the next act in this truly melodramatic performance would be a great deal
more difficult; for in order to escape from the ship it would be absolutely necessary for Bartholemy
to swim to shore, and he did not know how to swim, which seems a strange failing in a hardy
sailor with so many other nautical accomplishments. In the rough hold where he was shut up,
our pirate, peering about, anxious and earnest, discovered two large, earthen jars in which
wine had been brought from Spain, and with these he determined to make a sort of life-preserver.
He found some pieces of oiled cloth, which he tied tightly over the open mouths of the jars
and fastened them with cords. He was satisfied that this unwieldy contrivance would support
him in the water.

Among other things he had found in his rummagings about the hold was an old knife, and with
this in his hand he now sat waiting for a good opportunity to attack his sentinel.

This came soon after nightfall. A man descended with a lantern to see that the prisoner was
still secure,--let us hope that it was not the soldier who had kindly informed him of his fate,--and
as soon as he was fairly in the hold Bartholemy sprang upon him. There was a fierce struggle,
but the pirate was quick and powerful, and the sentinel was soon dead. Then, carrying his two
jars, Bartholemy climbed swiftly and noiselessly up the short ladder, came out on deck in the
darkness, made a rush toward the side of the ship, and leaped overboard. For a moment he sank
below the surface, but the two air-tight jars quickly rose and bore him up with them. There
was a bustle on board the ship, there was some random firing of muskets in the direction of
the splashing which the watch had heard, but none of the balls struck the pirate or his jars,
and he soon floated out of sight and hearing. Kicking out with his legs, and paddling as well
as he could with one hand while he held on to the jars with the other, he at last managed to
reach the land, and ran as fast as he could into the dark woods beyond the town.

Bartholemy was now greatly in fear that, when his escape was discovered, he would be tracked
by bloodhounds,--for these dogs were much used by the Spaniards in pursuing escaping slaves
or prisoners,--and he therefore did not feel safe in immediately making his way along the coast,
which was what he wished to do. If the hounds should get upon his trail, he was a lost man.
The desperate pirate, therefore, determined to give the bloodhounds no chance to follow him,
and for three days he remained in a marshy forest, in the dark recesses of which he could hide,
and where the water, which covered the ground, prevented the dogs from following his scent.
He had nothing to eat except a few roots of water-plants, but he was accustomed to privation,
and these kept him alive. Often he heard the hounds baying on the dry land adjoining the marsh,
and sometimes he saw at night distant torches, which he was sure were carried by men who were
hunting for him.

But at last the pursuit seemed to be given up; and hearing no more dogs and seeing no more
flickering lights, Bartholemy left the marsh and set out on his long journey down the coast.
The place he wished to reach was called Golpho Triste, which was forty leagues away, but where
he had reason to suppose he would find some friends. When he came out from among the trees,
he mounted a small hill and looked back upon the town. The public square was lighted, and there
in the middle of it he saw the gallows which had been erected for his execution, and this sight,
doubtless, animated him very much during the first part of his journey.

The terrible trials and hardships which Bartholemy experienced during his tramp along the coast
were such as could have been endured only by one of the strongest and toughest of men. He had
found in the marsh an old gourd, or calabash, which he had filled with fresh water,--for he
could expect nothing but sea-water during his journey,--and as for solid food he had nothing
but the raw shellfish which he found upon the rocks; but after a diet of roots, shellfish must
have been a very agreeable change, and they gave him all the strength and vigor he needed.
Very often he found streams and inlets which he was obliged to ford, and as he could see that
they were always filled with alligators, the passage of them was not very pleasant. His method
of getting across one of these narrow streams, was to hurl rocks into the water until he had
frightened away the alligators immediately in front of him, and then, when he had made for
himself what seemed to be a free passage, he would dash in and hurry across.

At other times great forests stretched down to the very coast, and through these he was obliged
to make his way, although he could hear the roars and screams of wild beasts all about him.
Any one who is afraid to go down into a dark cellar to get some apples from a barrel at the
foot of the stairs, can have no idea of the sort of mind possessed by Bartholemy Portuguez.
The animals might howl around him and glare at him with their shining eyes, and the alligators
might lash the water into foam with their great tails, but he was bound for Golpho Triste and
was not to be stopped on his way by anything alive.

But at last he came to something not alive, which seemed to be an obstacle which would certainly
get the better of him. This was a wide river, flowing through the inland country into the sea.
He made his way up the shore of this river for a considerable distance, but it grew but little
narrower, and he could see no chance of getting across. He could not swim and he had no wine-jars
now with which to buoy himself up, and if he had been able to swim he would probably have been
eaten up by alligators soon after he left the shore. But a man in his situation would not be
likely to give up readily; he had done so much that he was ready to do more if he could only
find out what to do.

Now a piece of good fortune happened to him, although to an ordinary traveller it might have
been considered a matter of no importance whatever. On the edge of the shore, where it had
floated down from some region higher up the river, Bartholemy perceived an old board, in which
there were some long and heavy rusty nails. Greatly encouraged by this discovery the indefatigable
traveller set about a work which resembled that of the old woman who wanted a needle, and who
began to rub a crow-bar on a stone in order to reduce it to the proper size. Bartholemy carefully
knocked all the nails out of the board, and then finding a large flat stone, he rubbed down
one of them until he had formed it into the shape of a rude knife blade, which he made as sharp
as he could. Then with these tools he undertook the construction of a raft, working away like
a beaver, and using the sharpened nails instead of his teeth. He cut down a number of small
trees, and when he had enough of these slender trunks he bound them together with reeds and
osiers, which he found on the river bank. So, after infinite labor and trial he constructed
a raft which would bear him on the surface of the water. When he had launched this he got upon
it, gathering up his legs so as to keep out of reach of the alligators, and with a long pole
pushed himself off from shore. Sometimes paddling and sometimes pushing his pole against the
bottom, he at last got across the river and took up his journey upon dry land.

But our pirate had not progressed very far upon the other side of the river before he met with
a new difficulty of a very formidable character. This was a great forest of mangrove trees,
which grow in muddy and watery places and which have many roots, some coming down from the
branches, and some extending themselves in a hopeless tangle in the water and mud. It would
have been impossible for even a stork to walk through this forest, but as there was no way
of getting around it Bartholemy determined to go through it, even if he could not walk. No
athlete of the present day, no matter if he should be a most accomplished circus-man, could
reasonably expect to perform the feat which this bold pirate successfully accomplished. For
five or six leagues he went through that mangrove forest, never once setting his foot upon
the ground,--by which is meant mud, water, and roots,--but swinging himself by his hands and
arms, from branch to branch, as if he had been a great ape, only resting occasionally, drawing
himself upon a stout limb where he might sit for a while and get his breath. If he had slipped
while he was swinging from one limb to another and had gone down into the mire and roots beneath
him, it is likely that he would never have been able to get out alive. But he made no slips.
He might not have had the agility and grace of a trapeze performer, but his grasp was powerful
and his arms were strong, and so he swung and clutched, and clutched and swung, until he had
gone entirely through the forest and had come out on the open coast.

Chapter VIII

How Bartholemy rested Himself

It was full two weeks from the time that Bartholemy began his most adventurous and difficult
journey before he reached the little town of Golpho Triste, where, as he had hoped, he found
some of his buccaneer friends. Now that his hardships and dangers were over, and when, instead
of roots and shellfish, he could sit down to good, plentiful meals, and stretch himself upon
a comfortable bed, it might have been supposed that Bartholemy would have given himself a long
rest, but this hardy pirate had no desire for a vacation at this time. Instead of being worn
out and exhausted by his amazing exertions and semi-starvation, he arrived among his friends
vigorous and energetic and exceedingly anxious to recommence business as soon as possible.
He told them of all that had happened to him, what wonderful good fortune had come to him,
and what terrible bad fortune had quickly followed it, and when he had related his adventures
and his dangers he astonished even his piratical friends by asking them to furnish him with
a small vessel and about twenty men, in order that he might go back and revenge himself, not
only for what had happened to him, but for what would have happened if he had not taken his
affairs into his own hands.

To do daring and astounding deeds is part of the business of a pirate, and although it was
an uncommonly bold enterprise that Bartholemy contemplated, he got his vessel and he got his
men, and away he sailed. After a voyage of about eight days he came in sight of the little
seaport town, and sailing slowly along the coast, he waited until nightfall before entering
the harbor. Anchored at a considerable distance from shore was the great Spanish ship on which
he had been a prisoner, and from which he would have been taken and hung in the public square;
the sight of the vessel filled his soul with a savage fury known only to pirates and bull dogs.

As the little vessel slowly approached the great ship, the people on board the latter thought
it was a trading-vessel from shore, and allowed it to come alongside, such small craft seldom
coming from the sea. But the moment Bartholemy reached the ship he scrambled up its side almost
as rapidly as he had jumped down from it with his two wine-jars a few weeks before, and every
one of his crew, leaving their own vessel to take care of itself, scrambled up after him.

Nobody on board was prepared to defend the ship. It was the same old story; resting quietly
in a peaceful harbor, what danger had they to expect? As usual the pirates had everything their
own way; they were ready to fight, and the others were not, and they were led by a man who
was determined to take that ship without giving even a thought to the ordinary alternative
of dying in the attempt. The affair was more of a massacre than a combat, and there were people
on board who did not know what was taking place until the vessel had been captured.

As soon as Bartholemy was master of the great vessel he gave orders to slip the cable and hoist
the sails, for he was anxious to get out of that harbor as quickly as possible. The fight had
apparently attracted no attention in the town, but there were ships in the port whose company
the bold buccaneer did not at all desire, and as soon as possible he got his grand prize under
way and went sailing out of the port.

Now, indeed, was Bartholemy triumphant; the ship he had captured was a finer one and a richer
one than that other vessel which had been taken from him. It was loaded with valuable merchandise,
and we may here remark that for some reason or other all Spanish vessels of that day which
were so unfortunate as to be taken by pirates, seemed to be richly laden.

If our bold pirate had sung wild pirate songs, as he passed the flowing bowl while carousing
with his crew in the cabin of the Spanish vessel he had first captured, he now sang wilder
songs, and passed more flowing bowls, for this prize was a much greater one than the first.
If Bartholemy could have communicated his great good fortune to the other buccaneers in the
West Indies, there would have been a boom in piracy which would have threatened great danger
to the honesty and integrity of the seafaring men of that region.

But nobody, not even a pirate, has any way of finding out what is going to happen next, and
if Bartholemy had had an idea of the fluctuations which were about to occur in the market in
which he had made his investments he would have been in a great hurry to sell all his stock
very much below par. The fluctuations referred to occurred on the ocean, near the island of
Pinos, and came in the shape of great storm waves, which blew the Spanish vessel with all its
rich cargo, and its triumphant pirate crew, high up upon the cruel rocks, and wrecked it absolutely
and utterly. Bartholemy and his men barely managed to get into a little boat, and row themselves
away. All the wealth and treasure which had come to them with the capture of the Spanish vessel,
all the power which the possession of that vessel gave them, and all the wild joy which came
to them with riches and power, were lost to them in as short a space of time as it had taken
to gain them.

In the way of well-defined and conspicuous ups and downs, few lives surpassed that of Bartholemy
Portuguez. But after this he seems, in the language of the old English song, "All in the downs."
He had many adventures after the desperate affair in the bay of Campeachy, but they must all
have turned out badly for him, and, consequently, very well, it is probable, for divers and
sundry Spanish vessels, and, for the rest of his life, he bore the reputation of an unfortunate
pirate. He was one of those men whose success seemed to have depended entirely upon his own
exertions. If there happened to be the least chance of his doing anything, he generally did
it; Spanish cannon, well-armed Spanish crews, manacles, imprisonment, the dangers of the ocean
to a man who could not swim, bloodhounds, alligators, wild beasts, awful forests impenetrable
to common men, all these were bravely met and triumphed over by Bartholemy.

But when he came to ordinary good fortune, such as any pirate might expect, Bartholemy the
Portuguese found that he had no chance at all. But he was not a common pirate, and was, therefore,
obliged to be content with his uncommon career. He eventually settled in the island of Jamaica,
but nobody knows what became of him. If it so happened that he found himself obliged to make
his living by some simple industry, such as the selling of fruit upon a street corner, it is
likely he never disposed of a banana or an orange unless he jumped at the throat of a passer-by
and compelled him to purchase. As for sitting still and waiting for customers to come to him,
such a man as Bartholemy would not be likely to do anything so commonplace.

Chapter IX

A Pirate Author

In the days which we are considering there were all sorts of pirates, some of whom gained much
reputation in one way and some in another, but there was one of them who had a disposition
different from that of any of his fellows. He was a regular pirate, but it is not likely that
he ever did much fighting, for, as he took great pride in the brave deeds of the Brethren of
the Coast, he would have been sure to tell us of his own if he had ever performed any. He was
a mild-mannered man, and, although he was a pirate, he eventually laid aside the pistol, the
musket, and the cutlass, and took up the pen,--a very uncommon weapon for a buccaneer.

This man was John Esquemeling, supposed by some to be a Dutchman, and by others a native of
France. He sailed to the West Indies in the year 1666, in the service of the French West India
Company. He went out as a peaceable merchant clerk, and had no more idea of becoming a pirate
than he had of going into literature, although he finally did both.

At that time the French West India Company had a colonial establishment on the island of Tortuga,
which was principally inhabited, as we have seen before, by buccaneers in all their various
grades and stages, from beef-driers to pirates. The French authorities undertook to supply
these erratic people with the goods and provisions which they needed, and built storehouses
with everything necessary for carrying on the trade. There were plenty of purchasers, for the
buccaneers were willing to buy everything which could be brought from Europe. They were fond
of good wine, good groceries, good firearms, and ammunition, fine cutlasses, and very often
good clothes, in which they could disport themselves when on shore. But they had peculiar customs
and manners, and although they were willing to buy as much as the French traders had to sell,
they could not be prevailed upon to pay their bills. A pirate is not the sort of a man who
generally cares to pay his bills. When he gets goods in any way, he wants them charged to him,
and if that charge includes the features of robbery and murder, he will probably make no objection.
But as for paying good money for what is received, that is quite another thing.

That this was the state of feeling on the island of Tortuga was discovered before very long
by the French mercantile agents, who then applied to the mother country for assistance in collecting
the debts due them, and a body of men, who might be called collectors, or deputy sheriffs,
was sent out to the island; but although these officers were armed with pistols and swords,
as well as with authority, they could do nothing with the buccaneers, and after a time the
work of endeavoring to collect debts from pirates was given up. And as there was no profit
in carrying on business in this way, the mercantile agency was also given up, and its officers
were ordered to sell out everything they had on hand, and come home. There was, therefore,
a sale, for which cash payments were demanded, and there was a great bargain day on the island
of Tortuga. Everything was disposed of,--the stock of merchandise on hand, the tables, the
desks, the stationery, the bookkeepers, the clerks, and the errand boys. The living items of
the stock on hand were considered to be property just as if they had been any kind of merchandise,
and were sold as slaves.

Now poor John Esquemeling found himself in a sad condition. He was bought by one of the French
officials who had been left on the island, and he described his new master as a veritable fiend.
He was worked hard, half fed, treated cruelly in many ways, and to add to his misery, his master
tantalized him by offering to set him free upon the payment of a sum of money equal to about
three hundred dollars. He might as well have been asked to pay three thousand or three million
dollars, for he had not a penny in the world.

At last he was so fortunate as to fall sick, and his master, as avaricious as he was cruel,
fearing that this creature he owned might die, and thus be an entire loss to him, sold him
to a surgeon, very much as one would sell a sick horse to a veterinary surgeon, on the principle
that he might make something out of the animal by curing him.

His new master treated Esquemeling very well, and after he had taken medicine and food enough
to set him upon his legs, and had worked for the surgeon about a year, that kind master offered
him his liberty if he would promise, as soon as he could earn the money, to pay him one hundred
dollars, which would be a profit to his owner, who had paid but seventy dollars for him. This
offer, of course, Esquemeling accepted with delight, and having made the bargain, he stepped
forth upon the warm sands of the island of Tortuga a free and happy man. But he was as poor
as a church mouse. He had nothing in the world but the clothes on his back, and he saw no way
in which he could make money enough to keep himself alive until he had paid for himself. He
tried various ways of support, but there was no opening for a young business man in that section
of the country, and at last he came to the conclusion that there was only one way by which
he could accomplish his object, and he therefore determined to enter into "the wicked order
of pirates or robbers at sea."

It must have been a strange thing for a man accustomed to pens and ink, to yard-sticks and
scales, to feel obliged to enroll himself into a company of bloody, big-bearded pirates, but
a man must eat, and buccaneering was the only profession open to our ex-clerk. For some reason
or other, certainly not on account of his bravery and daring, Esquemeling was very well received
by the pirates of Tortuga. Perhaps they liked him because he was a mild-mannered man and so
different from themselves. Nobody was afraid of him, every one felt superior to him, and we
are all very apt to like people to whom we feel superior.

As for Esquemeling himself, he soon came to entertain the highest opinion of his pirate companions.
He looked upon the buccaneers who had distinguished themselves as great heroes, and it must
have been extremely gratifying to those savage fellows to tell Esquemeling all the wonderful
things they had done. In the whole of the West Indies there was no one who was in the habit
of giving such intelligent attention to the accounts of piratical depredations and savage sea-fights,
as was Esquemeling and if he had demanded a salary as a listener there is no doubt that it
would have been paid to him.

It was not long before his intense admiration of the buccaneers and their performances began
to produce in him the feeling that the history of these great exploits should not be lost to
the world, and so he set about writing the lives and adventures of many of the buccaneers with
whom he became acquainted.

He remained with the pirates for several years, and during that time worked very industriously
getting material together for his history.

From this title it is probable that our literary pirate accompanied his comrades on their various
voyages and assaults, in the capacity of reporter, and although he states he was present at
many of "those tragedies," he makes no reference to any deeds of valor or cruelty performed
by himself, which shows him to have been a wonderfully conscientious historian. There are persons,
however, who doubt his impartiality, because, as he liked the French, he always gave the pirates
of that nationality the credit for most of the bravery displayed on their expeditions, and
all of the magnanimity and courtesy, if there happened to be any, while the surliness, brutality,
and extraordinary wickednesses were all ascribed to the English. But be this as it may, Esquemeling's
history was a great success. It was written in Dutch and was afterwards translated into English,
French, and Spanish. It contained a great deal of information regarding buccaneering in general,
and most of the stories of pirates which we have already told, and many of the surprising narrations
which are to come, have been taken from the book of this buccaneer historian.

Chapter X

The Story of Roc, the Brazilian

Having given the history of a very plain and quiet buccaneer, who was a reporter and writer,
and who, if he were now living, would be eligible as a member of an Authors' Club, we will
pass to the consideration of a regular out-and-out pirate, one from whose mast-head would have
floated the black flag with its skull and cross-bones if that emblematic piece of bunting had
been in use by the pirates of the period.

This famous buccaneer was called Roc, because he had to have a name, and his own was unknown,
and "the Brazilian," because he was born in Brazil, though of Dutch parents. Unlike most of
his fellow-practitioners he did not gradually become a pirate. From his early youth he never
had an intention of being anything else. As soon as he grew to be a man he became a bloody
buccaneer, and at the first opportunity he joined a pirate crew, and had made but a few voyages
when it was perceived by his companions that he was destined to become a most remarkable sea-robber.
He was offered the command of a ship with a well-armed crew of marine savages, and in a very
short time after he had set out on his first independent cruise he fell in with a Spanish ship
loaded with silver bullion; having captured this, he sailed with his prize to Jamaica, which
was one of the great resorts of the English buccaneers. There his success delighted the community,
his talents for the conduct of great piratical operations soon became apparent, and he was
generally acknowledged as the Head Pirate of the West Indies.

He was now looked upon as a hero even by those colonists who had no sympathy with pirates,
and as for Esquemeling, he simply worshipped the great Brazilian desperado. If he had been
writing the life and times of Alexander the Great, Julius Cæsar, or Mr. Gladstone, he could
not have been more enthusiastic in his praises. And as in The Arabian Nights the roc is described
as the greatest of birds, so, in the eyes of the buccaneer biographer, this Roc was the greatest
of pirates. But it was not only in the mind of the historian that Roc now became famous; the
better he became known, the more general was the fear and respect felt for him, and we are
told that the mothers of the islands used to put their children to sleep by threatening them
with the terrible Roc if they did not close their eyes. This story, however, I regard with
a great deal of doubt; it has been told of Saladin and many other wicked and famous men, but
I do not believe it is an easy thing to frighten a child into going to sleep. If I found it
necessary to make a youngster take a nap, I should say nothing of the condition of affairs
in Cuba or of the persecutions of the Armenians.

This renowned pirate from Brazil must have been a terrible fellow to look at. He was strong
and brawny, his face was short and very wide, with high cheek-bones, and his expression probably
resembled that of a pug dog. His eyebrows were enormously large and bushy, and from under them
he glared at his mundane surroundings. He was not a man whose spirit could be quelled by looking
him steadfastly in the eye. It was his custom in the daytime to walk about, carrying a drawn
cutlass, resting easily upon his arm, edge up, very much as a fine gentleman carries his high
silk hat, and any one who should impertinently stare or endeavor to quell his high spirits
in any other way, would probably have felt the edge of that cutlass descending rapidly through
his physical organism.

He was a man who insisted upon being obeyed, and if any one of his crew behaved improperly,
or was even found idle, this strict and inexorable master would cut him down where he stood.
But although he was so strict and exacting during the business sessions of his piratical year,
by which I mean when he was cruising around after prizes, he was very much more disagreeable
when he was taking a vacation. On his return to Jamaica after one of his expeditions it was
his habit to give himself some relaxation after the hardships and dangers through which he
had passed, and on such occasions it was a great comfort to Roc to get himself thoroughly drunk.
With his cutlass waving high in the air, he would rush out into the street and take a whack
at every one whom he met. As far as was possible the citizens allowed him to have the street
to himself, and it was not at all likely that his visits to Jamaica were looked forward to
with any eager anticipations.

Roc, it may be said, was not only a bloody pirate, but a blooded one; he was thoroughbred.
From the time he had been able to assert his individuality he had been a pirate, and there
was no reason to suppose that he would ever reform himself into anything else. There were no
extenuating circumstances in his case; in his nature there was no alloy, nor moderation, nor
forbearance. The appreciative Esquemeling, who might be called the Boswell of the buccaneers,
could never have met his hero Roc, when that bushy-bearded pirate was running "amuck" in the
streets, but if he had, it is not probable that his book would have been written. He assures
us that when Roc was not drunk he was esteemed, but at the same time feared; but there are
various ways of gaining esteem, and Roc's method certainly succeeded very well in the case
of his literary associate.

As we have seen, the hatred of the Spaniards by the buccaneers began very early in the settlement
of the West Indies, and in fact, it is very likely that if there had been no Spaniards there
would never have been any buccaneers; but in all the instances of ferocious enmity toward the
Spaniards there has been nothing to equal the feelings of Roc, the Brazilian, upon that subject.
His dislike to everything Spanish arose, he declared, from cruelties which had been practised
upon his parents by people of that nation, and his main principle of action throughout all
his piratical career seems to have been that there was nothing too bad for a Spaniard. The
object of his life was to wage bitter war against Spanish ships and Spanish settlements. He
seldom gave any quarter to his prisoners, and would often subject them to horrible tortures
in order to make them tell where he could find the things he wanted. There is nothing horrible
that has ever been written or told about the buccaneer life, which could not have been told
about Roc, the Brazilian. He was a typical pirate.

Roc was very successful, in his enterprises, and took a great deal of valuable merchandise
to Jamaica, but although he and his crew were always rich men when they went on shore, they
did not remain in that condition very long. The buccaneers of that day were all very extravagant,
and, moreover, they were great gamblers, and it was not uncommon for them to lose everything
they possessed before they had been on shore a week. Then there was nothing for them to do
but to go on board their vessels and put out to sea in search of some fresh prize. So far Roc's
career had been very much like that of many other Companions of the Coast, differing from them
only in respect to intensity and force, but he was a clever man with ideas, and was able to
adapt himself to circumstances.

He was cruising about Campeachy without seeing any craft that was worth capturing, when he
thought that it would be very well for him to go out on a sort of marine scouting expedition
and find out whether or not there were any Spanish vessels in the bay which were well laden
and which were likely soon to come out. So, with a small boat filled with some of his trusty
men, he rowed quietly into the port to see what he could discover. If he had had Esquemeling
with him, and had sent that mild-mannered observer into the harbor to investigate into the
state of affairs, and come back with a report, it would have been a great deal better for the
pirate captain, but he chose to go himself, and he came to grief. No sooner did the people
on the ships lying in the harbor behold a boat approaching with a big-browed, broad-jawed mariner
sitting in the stern, and with a good many more broad-backed, hairy mariners than were necessary,
pulling at the oars, than they gave the alarm. The well-known pirate was recognized, and it
was not long before he was captured. Roc must have had a great deal of confidence in his own
powers, or perhaps he relied somewhat upon the fear which his very presence evoked. But he
made a mistake this time; he had run into the lion's jaw, and the lion had closed his teeth
upon him.

When the pirate captain and his companions were brought before the Governor, he made no pretence
of putting them to trial. Buccaneers were outlawed by the Spanish, and were considered as wild
beasts to be killed without mercy wherever caught. Consequently Roc and his men were thrown
into a dungeon and condemned to be executed. If, however, the Spanish Governor had known what
was good for himself, he would have had them killed that night.

During the time that preparations were going on for making examples of these impertinent pirates,
who had dared to enter the port of Campeachy, Roc was racking his brains to find some method
of getting out of the terrible scrape into which he had fallen. This was a branch of the business
in which a capable pirate was obliged to be proficient; if he could not get himself out of
scrapes, he could not expect to be successful. In this case there was no chance of cutting
down sentinels, or jumping overboard with a couple of wine-jars for a life-preserver, or of
doing any of those ordinary things which pirates were in the habit of doing when escaping from
their captors. Roc and his men were in a dungeon on land, inside of a fortress, and if they
escaped from this, they would find themselves unarmed in the midst of a body of Spanish soldiers.
Their stout arms and their stout hearts were of no use to them now, and they were obliged to
depend upon their wits if they had any. Roc had plenty of wit, and he used it well. There was
a slave, probably not a negro nor a native, but most likely some European who had been made
prisoner, who came in to bring him food and drink, and by the means of this man the pirate
hoped to play a trick upon the Governor. He promised the slave that if he would help him,--and
he told him it would be very easy to do so,--he would give him money enough to buy his freedom
and to return to his friends, and this, of course, was a great inducement to the poor fellow,
who may have been an Englishman or a Frenchman in good circumstances at home. The slave agreed
to the proposals, and the first thing he did was to bring some writing-materials to Roc, who
thereupon began the composition of a letter upon which he based all his hopes of life and freedom.

When he was coming into the bay, Roc had noticed a large French vessel that was lying at some
distance from the town, and he wrote his letter as if it had come from the captain of this
ship. In the character of this French captain he addressed his letter to the Governor of the
town, and in it he stated that he had understood that certain Companions of the Coast, for
whom he had great sympathy,--for the French and the buccaneers were always good friends,--had
been captured by the Governor, who, he heard, had threatened to execute them. Then the French
captain, by the hand of Roc, went on to say that if any harm should come to these brave men,
who had been taken and imprisoned when they were doing no harm to anybody, he would swear,
in his most solemn manner, that never, for the rest of his life, would he give quarter to any
Spaniard who might fall into his hands, and he, moreover, threatened that any kind of vengeance
which should become possible for the buccaneers and French united, to inflict upon the Spanish
ships, or upon the town of Campeachy, should be taken as soon as possible after he should hear
of any injury that might be inflicted upon the unfortunate men who were then lying imprisoned
in the fortress.

When the slave came back to Roc, the letter was given to him with very particular directions
as to what he was to do with it. He was to disguise himself as much as possible, so that he
should not be recognized by the people of the place, and then in the night he was to make his
way out of the town, and early in the morning he was to return as if he had been walking along
the shore of the harbor, when he was to state that he had been put on shore from the French
vessel in the offing, with a letter which he was to present to the Governor.

The slave performed his part of the business very well. The next day, wet and bedraggled, from
making his way through the weeds and mud of the coast, he presented himself at the fortress
with his letter, and when he was allowed to take it to the Governor, no one suspected that
he was a person employed about the place. Having fulfilled his mission, he departed, and when
seen again he was the same servant whose business it was to carry food to the prisoners.

The Governor read the letter with a disquieted mind; he knew that the French ship which was
lying outside the harbor was a powerful vessel and he did not like French ships, anyway. The
town had once been taken and very badly treated by a little fleet of French and English buccaneers,
and he was very anxious that nothing of the kind should happen again. There was no great Spanish
force in the harbor at that time, and he did not know how many buccaneering vessels might be
able to gather together in the bay if it should become known that the great pirate Roc had
been put to death in Campeachy. It was an unusual thing for a prisoner to have such powerful
friends so near by, and the Governor took Roc's case into most earnest consideration. A few
hours' reflection was sufficient to convince him that it would be very unsafe to tamper with
such a dangerous prize as the pirate Roc, and he determined to get rid of him as soon as possible.
He felt himself in the position of a man who has stolen a baby-bear, and who hears the roar
of an approaching parent through the woods; to throw away the cub and walk off as though he
had no idea there were any bears in that forest would be the inclination of a man so situated,
and to get rid of the great pirate without provoking the vengeance of his friends was the natural
inclination of the Governor.

Now Roc and his men were treated well, and having been brought before the Governor, were told
that in consequence of their having committed no overt act of disorder they would be set at
liberty and shipped to England, upon the single condition that they would abandon piracy and
agree to become quiet citizens in whatever respectable vocation they might select.

To these terms Roc and his men agreed without argument. They declared that they would retire
from the buccaneering business, and that nothing would suit them better than to return to the
ways of civilization and virtue. There was a ship about to depart for Spain, and on this the
Governor gave Roc and his men free passage to the other side of the ocean. There is no doubt
that our buccaneers would have much preferred to have been put on board the French vessel;
but as the Spanish Governor had started his prisoners on the road to reform, he did not wish
to throw them into the way of temptation by allowing them to associate with such wicked companions
as Frenchmen, and Roc made no suggestion of the kind, knowing very well how greatly astonished
the French captain would be if the Governor were to communicate with him on the subject.

On the voyage to Spain Roc was on his good behavior, and he was a man who knew how to behave
very well when it was absolutely necessary: no doubt there must have been many dull days on
board ship when he would have been delighted to gamble, to get drunk, and to run "amuck" up
and down the deck. But he carefully abstained from all these recreations, and showed himself
to be such an able-bodied and willing sailor that the captain allowed him to serve as one of
the crew. Roc knew how to do a great many things; not only could he murder and rob, but he
knew how to turn an honest penny when there was no other way of filling his purse. He had learned
among the Indians how to shoot fish with bow and arrows, and on this voyage across the Atlantic
he occupied all his spare time in sitting in the rigging and shooting the fish which disported
themselves about the vessel. These fish he sold to the officers, and we are told that in this
way he earned no less than five hundred crowns, perhaps that many dollars. If this account
is true, fish must have been very costly in those days, but it showed plainly that if Roc had
desired to get into an honest business, he would have found fish-shooting a profitable occupation.
In every way Roc behaved so well that for his sake all his men were treated kindly and allowed
many privileges.

But when this party of reformed pirates reached Spain and were allowed to go where they pleased,
they thought no more of the oaths they had taken to abandon piracy than they thought of the
oaths which they had been in the habit of throwing right and left when they had been strolling
about on the island of Jamaica. They had no ship, and not enough money to buy one, but as soon
as they could manage it they sailed back to the West Indies, and eventually found themselves
in Jamaica, as bold and as bloody buccaneers as ever they had been.

Not only did Roc cast from him every thought of reformation and a respectable life, but he
determined to begin the business of piracy on a grander scale than ever before. He made a compact
with an old French buccaneer, named Tributor, and with a large company of buccaneers he actually
set out to take a town. Having lost everything he possessed, and having passed such a long
time without any employment more profitable than that of shooting fish with a bow and arrows,
our doughty pirate now desired to make a grand strike, and if he could take a town and pillage
it of everything valuable it contained, he would make a very good fortune in a very short time,
and might retire, if he chose, from the active practice of his profession.

The town which Roc and Tributor determined to attack was Merida, in Yucatan, and although this
was a bold and rash undertaking, the two pirates were bold and rash enough for anything. Roc
had been a prisoner in Merida, and on account of his knowledge of the town he believed that
he and his followers could land upon the coast, and then quietly advance upon the town without
their approach being discovered. If they could do this, it would be an easy matter to rush
upon the unsuspecting garrison, and, having annihilated these, make themselves masters of the town.

But their plans did not work very well; they were discovered by some Indians, after they had
landed, who hurried to Merida and gave notice of the approach of the buccaneers. Consequently,
when Roc and his companions reached the town they found the garrison prepared for them, cannons
loaded, and all the approaches guarded. Still the pirates did not hesitate; they advanced fiercely
to the attack just as they were accustomed to do when they were boarding a Spanish vessel,
but they soon found that fighting on land was very different from fighting at sea. In a marine
combat it is seldom that a party of boarders is attacked in the rear by the enemy, although
on land such methods of warfare may always be expected; but Roc and Tributor did not expect
anything of the kind, and they were, therefore, greatly dismayed when a party of horsemen from
the town, who had made a wide détour through the woods, suddenly charged upon their rear. Between
the guns of the garrison and the sabres of the horsemen the buccaneers had a very hard time,
and it was not long before they were completely defeated. Tributor and a great many of the
pirates were killed or taken, and Roc, the Brazilian, had a terrible fall.

This most memorable fall occurred in the estimation of John Esquemeling, who knew all about
the attack on Merida, and who wrote the account of it. But he had never expected to be called
upon to record that his great hero, Roc, the Brazilian, saved his life, after the utter defeat
of himself and his companions, by ignominiously running away. The loyal chronicler had as firm
a belief in the absolute inability of his hero to fly from danger as was shown by the Scottish
Douglas, when he stood, his back against a mass of stone, and invited his enemies to "Come
one, come all." The bushy-browed pirate of the drawn cutlass had so often expressed his contempt
for a soldier who would even surrender, to say nothing of running away, that Esquemeling could
scarcely believe that Roc had retreated from his enemies, deserted his friends, and turned
his back upon the principles which he had always so truculently proclaimed.

But this downfall of a hero simply shows that Esquemeling, although he was a member of the
piratical body, and was proud to consider himself a buccaneer, did not understand the true
nature of a pirate. Under the brutality, the cruelty, the dishonesty, and the recklessness
of the sea-robbers of those days, there was nearly always meanness and cowardice. Roc, as we
have said in the beginning of this sketch, was a typical pirate; under certain circumstances
he showed himself to have all those brave and savage qualities which Esquemeling esteemed and
revered, and under other circumstances he showed those other qualities which Esquemeling despised,
but which are necessary to make up the true character of a pirate.

The historian John seems to have been very much cut up by the manner in which his favorite
hero had rounded off his piratical career, and after that he entirely dropped Roc from his
chronicles.

This out-and-out pirate was afterwards living in Jamaica, and probably engaged in new enterprises,
but Esquemeling would have nothing more to do with him nor with the history of his deeds.

Chapter XI

A Buccaneer Boom

The condition of affairs in the West Indies was becoming very serious in the eyes of the Spanish
rulers. They had discovered a new country, they had taken possession of it, and they had found
great wealth of various kinds, of which they were very much in need. This wealth was being
carried to Spain as fast as it could be taken from the unfortunate natives and gathered together
for transportation, and everything would have gone on very well indeed had it not been for
the most culpable and unwarranted interference of that lawless party of men, who might almost
be said to amount to a nationality, who were continually on the alert to take from Spain everything
she could take from America. The English, French, and Dutch governments were generally at peace
with Spain, but they sat by quietly and saw their sailor subjects band themselves together
and make war upon Spanish commerce,--a very one-sided commerce, it is true.

It was of no use for Spain to complain of the buccaneers to her sister maritime nations. It
is not certain that they could have done anything to interfere with the operations of the sea-robbers
who originally sailed from their coasts, but it is certain they did not try to do anything.
Whatever was to be done, Spain must do herself. The pirates were as slippery as they were savage,
and although the Spaniards made a regular naval war upon them, they seemed to increase rather
than to diminish. Every time that a Spanish merchantman was taken, and its gold and silver
and valuable goods carried off to Tortuga or Jamaica, and divided among a lot of savage and
rollicking fellows, the greater became the enthusiasm among the Brethren of the Coast, and
the wider spread the buccaneering boom. More ships laden almost entirely with stalwart men,
well provided with arms, and very badly furnished with principles, came from England and France,
and the Spanish ships of war in the West Indies found that they were confronted by what was,
in many respects, a regular naval force.

The buccaneers were afraid of nothing; they paid no attention to the rules of war,--a little
ship would attack a big one without the slightest hesitation, and more than that, would generally
take it,--and in every way Spain was beginning to feel as if she were acting the part of provider
to the pirate seamen of every nation.

Finding that she could do nothing to diminish the number of the buccaneering vessels, Spain
determined that she would not have so many richly laden ships of her own upon these dangerous
seas; consequently, a change was made in regard to the shipping of merchandise and the valuable
metals from America to her home ports. The cargoes were concentrated, and what had previously
been placed upon three ships was crowded into the holds and between the decks of one great
vessel, which was so well armed and defended as to make it almost impossible for any pirate
ship to capture it. In some respects this plan worked very well, although when the buccaneers
did happen to pounce upon one of these richly laden vessels, in such numbers and with such
swift ferocity, that they were able to capture it, they rejoiced over a prize far more valuable
than anything the pirate soul had ever dreamed of before. But it was not often that one of
these great ships was taken, and for a time the results of Spanish robbery and cruelty were
safely carried to Spain.

But it was very hard to get the better of the buccaneers; their lives and their fortunes depended
upon this boom, and if in one way they could not get the gold out of the Spaniards, which the
latter got out of the natives, they would try another. When the miners in the gold fields find
they can no longer wash out with their pans a paying quantity of the precious metal, they go
to work on the rocks and break them into pieces and crush them into dust; so, when the buccaneers
found it did not pay to devote themselves to capturing Spanish gold on its transit across the
ocean, many of them changed their methods of operation and boldly planned to seize the treasures
of their enemy before it was put upon the ships.

Consequently, the buccaneers formed themselves into larger bodies commanded by noted leaders,
and made attacks upon the Spanish settlements and towns. Many of these were found nearly defenceless,
and even those which boasted fortifications often fell before the reckless charges of the buccaneers.
The pillage, the burning, and the cruelty on shore exceeded that which had hitherto been known
on the sea. There is generally a great deal more in a town than there is in a ship, and the
buccaneers proved themselves to be among the most outrageous, exacting, and cruel conquerors
ever known in the world. They were governed by no laws of warfare; whatever they chose to do
they did. They respected nobody, not even themselves, and acted like wild beasts, without the
disposition which is generally shown by a wild beast, to lie down and go to sleep when he has
had enough.

There were times when it seemed as though it would be safer for a man who had a regard for
his life and comfort, to sail upon a pirate ship instead of a Spanish galleon, or to take up
his residence in one of the uncivilized communities of Tortuga or Jamaica, instead of settling
in a well-ordered Spanish-American town with its mayor, its officials, and its garrison.

It was a very strange nation of marine bandits which had thus sprung into existence on these
faraway waters; it was a nation of grown-up men, who existed only for the purpose of carrying
off that which other people were taking away; it was a nation of second-hand robbers, who carried
their operations to such an extent that they threatened to do away entirely with that series
of primary robberies to which Spain had devoted herself. I do not know that there were any
companies formed in those days for the prosecution of buccaneering, but I am quite sure that
if there had been, their shares would have gone up to a very high figure.

Chapter XII

The Story of L'Olonnois the Cruel

In the preceding chapter we have seen that the buccaneers had at last become so numerous and
so formidable that it was dangerous for a Spanish ship laden with treasure from the new world
to attempt to get out of the Caribbean Sea into the Atlantic, and that thus failing to find
enough richly laden vessels to satisfy their ardent cravings for plunder, the buccaneers were
forced to make some change in their methods of criminal warfare; and from capturing Spanish
galleons, they formed themselves into well-organized bodies and attacked towns.

Among the buccaneer leaders who distinguished themselves as land pirates was a thoroughbred
scoundrel by the name of Francis L'Olonnois, who was born in France. In those days it was the
custom to enforce servitude upon people who were not able to take care of themselves. Unfortunate
debtors and paupers of all classes were sold to people who had need of their services. The
only difference sometimes between master and servant depended entirely upon the fact that one
had money, and the other had none. Boys and girls were sold for a term of years, somewhat as
if they had been apprentices, and it so happened that the boy L'Olonnois was sold to a master
who took him to the West Indies. There he led the life of a slave until he was of age, and
then, being no longer subject to ownership, he became one of the freest and most independent
persons who ever walked this earth.

He began his career on the island of Hispaniola, where he took up the business of hunting and
butchering cattle; but he very soon gave up this life for that of a pirate, and enlisted as
a common sailor on one of their ships. Here he gave signs of such great ability as a brave
and unscrupulous scoundrel that one of the leading pirates on the island of Tortuga gave him
a ship and a crew, and set him up in business on his own account. The piratical career of L'Olonnois
was very much like that of other buccaneers of the day, except that he was so abominably cruel
to the Spanish prisoners whom he captured that he gained a reputation for vile humanity, surpassing
that of any other rascal on the western continent. When he captured a prisoner, it seemed to
delight his soul as much to torture and mutilate him before killing him as to take away whatever
valuables he possessed. His reputation for ingenious wickedness spread all over the West Indies,
so that the crews of Spanish ships, attacked by this demon, would rather die on their decks
or sink to the bottom in their ships than be captured by L'Olonnois.

All the barbarities, the brutalities, and the fiendish ferocity which have ever been attributed
to the pirates of the world were united in the character of this inhuman wretch, who does not
appear to be so good an example of the true pirate as Roc, the Brazilian. He was not so brave,
he was not so able, and he was so utterly base that it would be impossible for any one to look
upon him as a hero. After having attained in a very short time the reputation of being the
most bloody and wicked pirate of his day, L'Olonnois was unfortunate enough to be wrecked upon
the coast, not far from the town of Campeachy. He and his crew got safely to shore, but it
was not long before their presence was discovered by the people of the town, and the Spanish
soldiers thereupon sallied out and attacked them. There was a fierce fight, but the Spaniards
were the stronger, and the buccaneers were utterly defeated. Many of them were killed, and
most of the rest wounded or taken prisoners.

Among the wounded was L'Olonnois, and as he knew that if he should be discovered he would meet
with no mercy, he got behind some bushes, scooped up several handfuls of sand, mixed it with
his blood, and with it rubbed his face so that it presented the pallor of a corpse. Then he
lay down among the bodies of his dead companions, and when the Spaniards afterwards walked
over the battlefield, he was looked upon as one of the common pirates whom they had killed.

When the soldiers had retired into the town with their prisoners, the make-believe corpse stealthily
arose and made his way into the woods, where he stayed until his wounds were well enough for
him to walk about. He divested himself of his great boots, his pistol belt, and the rest of
his piratical costume, and, adding to his scanty raiment a cloak and hat which he had stolen
from a poor cottage, he boldly approached the town and entered it. He looked like a very ordinary
person, and no notice was taken of him by the authorities. Here he found shelter and something
to eat, and he soon began to make himself very much at home in the streets of Campeachy.

It was a very gay time in the town, and, as everybody seemed to be happy, L'Olonnois was very
glad to join in the general rejoicing, and these hilarities gave him particular pleasure as
he found out that he was the cause of them. The buccaneers who had been captured, and who were
imprisoned in the fortress, had been interrogated over and over again by the Spanish officials
in regard to L'Olonnois, their commander, and, as they had invariably answered that he had
been killed, the Spanish were forced to believe the glad tidings, and they celebrated the death
of the monster as the greatest piece of public good fortune which could come to their community.
They built bonfires, they sang songs about the death of the black-hearted buccaneer, and services
of thanksgiving were held in their churches.

All this was a great delight to L'Olonnois, who joined hands with the young men and women,
as they danced around the bonfires; he assisted in a fine bass voice in the choruses which
told of his death and his dreadful doom, and he went to church and listened to the priests
and the people as they gave thanks for their deliverance from his enormities.

But L'Olonnois did not waste all his time chuckling over the baseless rejoicings of the people
of the town. He made himself acquainted with some of the white slaves, men who had been brought
from England, and finding some of them very much discontented with their lot, he ventured to
tell them that he was one of the pirates who had escaped, and offered them riches and liberty
if they would join him in a scheme he had concocted. It would have been easy enough for him
to get away from the town by himself, but this would have been of no use to him unless he obtained
some sort of a vessel, and some men to help him navigate it. So he proposed to the slaves that
they should steal a small boat belonging to the master of one of them, and in this, under cover
of the night, the little party safely left Campeachy and set sail for Tortuga, which, as we
have told, was then the headquarters of the buccaneers, and "the common place of refuge of
all sorts or wickedness, and the seminary, as it were, of all manner of pirates."

Chapter XIII

A Resurrected Pirate

When L'Olonnois arrived at Tortuga he caused great astonishment among his old associates; that
he had come back a comparative pauper surprised no one, for this was a common thing to happen
to a pirate, but the wonder was that he got back at all.

He had no money, but, by the exercise of his crafty abilities, he managed to get possession
of a ship, which he manned with a crew of about a score of impecunious dare-devils who were
very anxious to do something to mend their fortunes.

Having now become very fond of land-fighting, he did not go out in search of ships, but directed
his vessel to a little village called de los Cayos, on the coast of Cuba, for here, he thought,
was a chance for a good and easy stroke of business. This village was the abode of industrious
people, who were traders in tobacco, hides, and sugar, and who were obliged to carry on their
traffic in a rather peculiar manner. The sea near their town was shallow, so that large ships
could not approach very near, and thus the villagers were kept busy carrying goods and supplies
in small boats, backwards and forwards from the town to the vessels at anchor. Here was a nice
little prize that could not get away from him, and L'Olonnois had plenty of time to make his
preparations to seize it. As he could not sail a ship directly up to the town, he cruised about
the coast at some distance from de los Cayos, endeavoring to procure two small boats in which
to approach the town, but although his preparations were made as quietly as possible, the presence
of his vessel was discovered by some fishermen. They knew that it was a pirate ship, and some
of them who had seen L'Olonnois recognized that dreaded pirate upon the deck. Word of the impending
danger was taken to the town, and the people there immediately sent a message by land to Havana,
informing the Governor of the island that the cruel pirate L'Olonnois was in a ship a short
distance from their village, which he undoubtedly intended to attack.

When the Governor heard this astonishing tale, it was almost impossible for him to believe
it. The good news of the death of L'Olonnois had come from Campeachy to Havana, and the people
of the latter town also rejoiced greatly. To be now told that this scourge of the West Indies
was alive, and was about to fall upon a peaceful little village on the island over which he
ruled, filled the Governor with rage as well as amazement, and he ordered a well-armed ship,
with a large crew of fighting men, to sail immediately for de los Cayos, giving the captain
express orders that he was not to come back until he had obliterated from the face of the earth
the whole of the wretched gang with the exception of the leader. This extraordinary villain
was to be brought to Havana to be treated as the Governor should see fit. In order that his
commands should be executed promptly and effectually, the Governor sent a big negro slave in
the ship, who was charged with the duty of hanging every one of the pirates except L'Olonnois.

By the time the war-vessel had arrived at de los Cayos, L'Olonnois had made his preparation
to attack the place. He had procured two large canoes, and in these he had intended to row
up to the town and land with his men. But now there was a change in the state of affairs, and
he was obliged to alter his plans. The ordinary person in command of two small boats, who should
suddenly discover that a village which he supposed almost defenceless, was protected by a large
man-of-war, with cannon and a well-armed crew, would have altered his plans so completely that
he would have left that part of the coast of Cuba with all possible expedition. But the pirates
of that day seemed to pay very little attention to the element of odds; if they met an enemy
who was weak, they would fall upon him, and if they met with one who was a good deal stronger
than themselves, they would fall upon him all the same. When the time came to fight they fought.

Of course L'Olonnois could not now row leisurely up to the town and begin to pillage it as
he had intended, but no intention of giving up his project entered his mind. As the Spanish
vessel was in his way, he would attack her and get her out of his way if the thing could be done.

In this new state of affairs he was obliged to use stratagem, and he also needed a larger force
than he had with him, and he therefore captured some men who were fishing along the coast and
put them into his canoes to help work the oars. Then by night he proceeded slowly in the direction
of the Spanish vessel. The man-of-war was anchored not very far from the town, and when about
two o'clock in the morning the watch on deck saw some canoes approaching they supposed them
to be boats from shore, for, as has been said, such vessels were continually plying about those
shallow waters. The canoes were hailed, and after having given an account of themselves they
were asked if they knew anything about the pirate ship upon the coast. L'Olonnois understood
very well that it would not do for him or his men to make answer to these inquiries, for their
speech would have shown they did not belong to those parts. Therefore he made one of his prisoner
fishermen answer that they had not seen a pirate vessel, and if there had been one there, it
must have sailed away when its captain heard the Spanish ship was coming. Then the canoes were
allowed to go their way, but their way was a very different one from any which could have been
expected by the captain of the ship.

They rowed off into the darkness instead of going toward the town, and waited until nearly
daybreak, then they boldly made for the man-of-war, one canoe attacking her on one side and
the other on the other. Before the Spanish could comprehend what had happened there were more
than twenty pirates upon their decks, the dreaded L'Olonnois at their head.

In such a case as this cannon were of no use, and when the crew tried to rush upon deck, they
found that cutlasses and pistols did not avail very much better. The pirates had the advantage;
they had overpowered the watch, and were defending the deck against all comers from below.
It requires a very brave sailor to stick his head out of a hatchway when he sees three or four
cutlasses ready to split it open. But there was some stout fighting on board; the officers
came out of their cabins, and some of the men were able to force their way out into the struggle.
The pirates knew, however, that they were but few and that were their enemies allowed to get
on deck they would prove entirely too strong, and they fought, each scoundrel of them, like
three men, and the savage fight ended by every Spanish sailor or officer who was not killed
or wounded being forced to stay below decks, where the hatches were securely fastened down
upon them.

L'Olonnois now stood a proud victor on the deck of his prize, and, being a man of principle,
he determined to live up to the distinguished reputation which he had acquired in that part
of the world. Baring his muscular and hairy right arm, he clutched the handle of his sharp
and heavy cutlass and ordered the prisoners to be brought up from below, one at a time, and
conducted to the place where he stood. He wished to give Spain a lesson which would make her
understand that he was not to be interfered with in the execution of his enterprises, and he
determined to allow himself the pleasure of personally teaching this lesson.

As soon as a prisoner was brought to L'Olonnois he struck off his head, and this performance
he continued, beginning with number one, and going on until he had counted ninety. The last
one brought to him was the negro slave. This man, who was not a soldier, was desperately frightened
and begged piteously for his life. L'Olonnois, finding that the man was willing to tell everything
he knew, questioned him about the sending of this vessel from Havana, and when the poor fellow
had finished by telling that he had come there, not of his own accord, but simply for the purpose
of obeying his master, to hang all the pirates except their leader, that great buccaneer laughed,
and, finding he could get nothing more from the negro, cut off his head likewise, and his body
was tumbled into the sea after those of his companions.

Now there was not a Spaniard left on board the great ship except one man, who had been preserved
from the fate of the others because L'Olonnois had some correspondence to attend to, and he
needed a messenger to carry a letter.

When this message was received by the dignified official who filled the post of Governor of
Cuba, he stormed and fairly foamed at the mouth. To be utterly foiled and discomfited by this
resurrected pirate, and to be afterwards addressed in terms of such unheard-of insolence and
abuse, was more than he could bear, and, in the presence of many of his officials and attendants,
he swore a terrible oath that after that hour he would never again give quarter to any buccaneer,
no matter when or where he was captured, or what he might be doing at the time. Every man of
the wretched band should die as soon as he could lay hands upon him.

But when the inhabitants of Havana and the surrounding villages heard of this terrible resolution
of their Governor they were very much disturbed. They lived in constant danger of attack, especially
those who were engaged in fishing or maritime pursuits, and they feared that when it became
known that no buccaneer was to receive quarter, the Spanish colonists would be treated in the
same way, no matter where they might be found and taken. Consequently, it was represented to
the Governor that his plan of vengeance would work most disastrously for the Spanish settlers,
for the buccaneers could do far more damage to them than he could possibly do to these dreadful
Brethren of the Coast, and that, unless he wished to bring upon them troubles greater than
those of famine or pestilence, they begged that he would retract his oath.

When the high dignitary had cooled down a little, he saw that there was a good deal of sense
in what the representative of the people had said to him, and he consequently felt obliged,
in consideration of the public safety, to take back what he had said, and to give up the purpose,
which would have rendered unsafe the lives of so many peaceable people.

L'Olonnois was now the possessor of a fine vessel which had not been in the least injured during
the battle in which it had been won. But his little crew, some of whom had been killed and
wounded, was insufficient to work such a ship upon an important cruise on the high seas, and
he also discovered, much to his surprise, that there were very few provisions on board, for
when the vessel was sent from Havana it was supposed she would make but a very short cruise.
This savage swinger of the cutlass thereupon concluded that he would not try to do any great
thing for the present, but, having obtained some booty and men from the woe-begone town of
de los Cayos, he sailed away, touching at several other small ports for the purpose of pillage,
and finally anchoring at Tortuga.

Chapter XIV

Villany on a Grand Scale

When L'Olonnois landed on the disreputable shores of Tortuga, he was received by all circles
of the vicious society of the island with loud acclamation. He had not only taken a fine Spanish
ship, he had not only bearded the Governor of Havana in his fortified den, but he had struck
off ninety heads with his own hand. Even people who did not care for him before reverenced
him now. In all the annals of piracy no hero had ever done such a deed as this, and the best
records of human butchering had been broken.

Now grand and ambitious ideas began to swell the head of this champion slaughterer, and he
conceived the plan of getting up a grand expedition to go forth and capture the important town
of Maracaibo, in New Venezuela. This was an enterprise far above the ordinary aims of a buccaneer,
and it would require more than ordinary force to accomplish it. He therefore set himself to
work to enlist a large number of men and to equip a fleet of vessels, of which he was to be
chief commander or admiral. There were a great many unemployed pirates in Tortuga at that time,
and many a brawny rascal volunteered to sail under the flag of the daring butcher of the seas.

But in order to equip a fleet, money was necessary as well as men, and therefore L'Olonnois
thought himself very lucky when he succeeded in interesting the principal piratical capitalist
of Tortuga in his undertaking. This was an old and seasoned buccaneer by the name of Michael
de Basco, who had made money enough by his piratical exploits to retire from business and live
on his income. He held the position of Mayor of the island and was an important man among his
fellow-miscreants. When de Basco heard of the great expedition which L'Olonnois was about to
undertake, his whole soul was fired and he could not rest tamely in his comfortable quarters
when such great things were to be done, and he offered to assist L'Olonnois with funds and
join in the expedition if he were made commander of the land forces. This offer was accepted
gladly, for de Basco had a great reputation as a fighter in Europe as well as in America.

When everything had been made ready, L'Olonnois set sail for Maracaibo with a fleet of eight
ships. On the way they captured two Spanish vessels, both of which were rich prizes, and at
last they arrived before the town which they intended to capture.

Maracaibo was a prosperous place of three or four thousand inhabitants; they were rich people
living in fine houses, and many of them had plantations which extended out into the country.
In every way the town possessed great attractions to piratical marauders, but there were difficulties
in the way; being such an important place, of course it had important defences. On an island
in the harbor there was a strong fort, or castle, and on another island a little further from
the town there was a tall tower, on the top of which a sentinel was posted night and day to
give notice of any approaching enemy. Between these two islands was the only channel by which
the town could be approached from the sea. But in preparing these defences the authorities
had thought only of defending themselves against ordinary naval forces and had not anticipated
the extraordinary naval methods of the buccaneers who used to be merely sea-robbers, who fell
upon ships after they had left their ports, but who now set out to capture not only ships at
sea but towns on land.

L'Olonnois had too much sense to run his ships close under the guns of the fortress, against
which he could expect to do nothing, for the buccaneers relied but little upon their cannon,
and so they paid no more attention to the ordinary harbor than if it had not been there, but
sailed into a fresh-water lake at some distance from the town, and out of sight of the tower.
There L'Olonnois landed his men, and, advancing upon the fort from the rear, easily crossed
over to the little island and marched upon the fort. It was very early in the morning. The
garrison was utterly amazed by this attack from land, and although they fought bravely for
three hours, they were obliged to give up the defence of the walls, and as many of them as
could do so got out of the fort and escaped to the mainland and the town.

L'Olonnois now took possession of the fort, and then, with the greater part of his men, he
returned to his ships, brought them around to the entrance of the bay, and then boldly sailed
with his whole fleet under the very noses of the cannon and anchored in the harbor in front
of the town.

When the citizens of Maracaibo heard from the escaping garrison that the fort had been taken,
they were filled with horror and dismay, for they had no further means of defence. They knew
that the pirates had come there for no other object than to rob, pillage, and cruelly treat
them, and consequently as many as possible hurried away into the woods and the surrounding
country with as many of their valuables as they could carry. They resembled the citizens of
a town attacked by the cholera or the plague, and in fact, they would have preferred a most
terrible pestilence to this terrible scourge of piracy from which they were about to suffer.

As soon as L'Olonnois and his wild pirates had landed in the city they devoted themselves entirely
to eating and drinking and making themselves merry. They had been on short commons during the
latter part of their voyage, and they had a royal time with the abundance of food and wine
which they found in the houses of the town. The next day, however, they set about attending
to the business which had brought them there, and parties of pirates were sent out into the
surrounding country to find the people who had run away and to take from them the treasures
they had carried off. But although a great many of the poor, miserable, unfortunate citizens
were captured and brought back to the town, there was found upon them very little money, and
but few jewels or ornaments of value. And now L'Olonnois began to prove how much worse his
presence was than any other misfortune which could have happened to the town. He tortured the
poor prisoners, men, women, and children, to make them tell where they had hidden their treasures,
sometimes hacking one of them with his sword, declaring at the same time that if he did not
tell where his money was hidden he would immediately set to work to cut up his family and his
friends.

The cruelties inflicted upon the inhabitants by this vile and beastly pirate and his men were
so horrible that they could not be put into print. Even John Esquemeling, who wrote the account
of it, had not the heart to tell everything that had happened. But after two weeks of horror
and torture, the pirates were able to get but comparatively little out of the town, and they
therefore determined to go somewhere else, where they might do better.

At the southern end of Lake Maracaibo, about forty leagues from the town which the pirates
had just desolated and ruined, lay Gibraltar, a good-sized and prosperous town, and for this
place L'Olonnois and his fleet now set sail; but they were not able to approach unsuspected
and unseen, for news of their terrible doings had gone before them, and their coming was expected.
When they drew near the town they saw the flag flying from the fort, and they knew that every
preparation had been made for defence. To attack such a place as this was a rash undertaking;
the Spaniards had perhaps a thousand soldiers, and the pirates numbered but three hundred and
eighty, but L'Olonnois did not hesitate. As usual, he had no thought of bombardment, or any
ordinary method of naval warfare; but at the first convenient spot he landed all his men, and
having drawn them up in a body, he made them an address. He made them understand clearly the
difficult piece of work which was before them; but he assured them that pirates were so much
in the habit of conquering Spaniards that if they would all promise to follow him and do their
best, he was certain he could take the town. He assured them that it would be an ignoble thing
to give up such a grand enterprise as this simply because they found the enemy strong and so
well prepared to meet them, and ended by stating that if he saw a man flinch or hold back for
a second, he would pistol him with his own hand. Whereupon the pirates all shook hands and
promised they would follow L'Olonnois wherever he might lead them.

This they truly did, and L'Olonnois, having a very imperfect knowledge of the proper way to
the town, led them into a wild bog, where this precious pack of rascals soon found themselves
up to their knees in mud and water, and in spite of all the cursing and swearing which they
did, they were not able to press through the bog or get out of it. In this plight they were
discovered by a body of horsemen from the town, who began firing upon them. The Spaniards must
now have thought that their game was almost bagged and that all they had to do was to stand
on the edge of the bog and shoot down the floundering fellows who could not get away from them.
But these fellows were bloody buccaneers, each one of them a great deal harder to kill than
a cat, and they did not propose to stay in the bog to be shot down. With their cutlasses they
hewed off branches of trees and threw these down in the bog, making a sort of rude roadway
by means of which they were able to get out on solid ground. But here they found themselves
confronted by a large body of Spaniards, entrenched behind earthworks. Cannon and musket were
opened upon the buccaneers, and the noise and smoke were so terrible they could scarcely hear
the commands of their leaders.

Never before, perhaps, had pirates been engaged in such a land battle as this. Very soon the
Spaniards charged from behind their earthworks, and then L'Olonnois and his men were actually
obliged to fly back. If he could have found any way of retreating to his ships, L'Olonnois
would doubtless have done so, in spite of his doughty words, when he addressed his men, but
this was now impossible, for the Spaniards had felled trees and had made a barricade between
the pirates and their ships. The buccaneers were now in a very tight place; their enemy was
behind defences and firing at them steadily, without showing any intention of coming out to
give the pirates a chance for what they considered a fair fight. Every now and then a buccaneer
would fall, and L'Olonnois saw that as it would be utterly useless to endeavor to charge the
barricade he must resort to some sort of trickery or else give up the battle.

Suddenly he passed the word for every man to turn his back and run away as fast as he could
from the earthworks. Away scampered the pirates, and from the valiant Spaniards there came
a shout of victory. The soldiers could not be restrained from following the fugitives and putting
to death every one of the cowardly rascals. Away went the buccaneers, and after them, hot and
furious, came the soldiers. But as soon as the Spaniards were so far away from their entrenchments
that they could not get back to them, the crafty L'Olonnois, who ran with one eye turned behind
him, called a halt, his men turned, formed into battle array, and began an onslaught upon their
pursuing enemy, such as these military persons had never dreamed of in their wildest imagination.
We are told that over two hundred Spaniards perished in a very short time. Before a furious
pirate with a cutlass a soldier with his musket seemed to have no chance at all, and very soon
the Spaniards who were left alive broke and ran into the woods.

The buccaneers formed into a body and marched toward the town, which surrendered without firing
a gun, and L'Olonnois and his men, who, but an hour before, had been in danger of being shot
down by their enemy as if they had been rabbits in a pen, now marched boldly into the centre
of the town, pulled down the Spanish flag, and hoisted their own in its place. They were the
masters of Gibraltar. Never had ambitious villany been more successful.

Chapter XV

A Just Reward

When L'Olonnois and his buccaneers entered the town of Gibraltar they found that the greater
part of the inhabitants had fled, but there were many people left, and these were made prisoners
as fast as they were discovered. They were all forced to go into the great church, and then
the pirates, fearing that the Spaniards outside of the town might be reënforced and come back
again to attack them, carried a number of cannon into the church and fortified the building.
When this had been done, they felt safe and began to act as if they had been a menagerie of
wild beasts let loose upon a body of defenceless men, women, and children. Not only did these
wretched men rush into the houses, stealing everything valuable they could find and were able
to carry away, but when they had gathered together all they could discover they tortured their
poor prisoners by every cruel method they could think of, in order to make them tell where
more treasures were concealed. Many of these unfortunates had had nothing to hide, and therefore
could give no information to their brutal inquisitors, and others died without telling what
they had done with their valuables. When the town had been thoroughly searched and sifted,
the pirates sent men out into the little villages and plantations in the country, and even
hunters and small farmers were captured and made to give up everything they possessed which
was worth taking.

For nearly three weeks these outrageous proceedings continued, and to prove that they were
lower than the brute beasts they allowed the greater number of the prisoners collected in the
church, to perish of hunger. There were not provisions enough in the town for the pirates'
own uses and for these miserable creatures also, and so, with the exception of a small quantity
of mule flesh, which many of the prisoners could not eat, they got nothing whatever, and slowly
starved.

When L'Olonnois and his friends had been in possession of Gibraltar for about a month, they
thought it was time to leave, but their greedy souls were not satisfied with the booty they
had already obtained, and they therefore sent messages to the Spaniards who were still concealed
in the forests, that unless in the course of two days a ransom of ten thousand pieces of eight
were paid to them, they would burn the town to the ground. No matter what they thought of this
heartless demand, it was not easy for the scattered citizens to collect such a sum as this,
and the two days passed without the payment of the ransom, and the relentless pirates promptly
carried out their threat and set the town on fire in various places. When the poor Spaniards
saw this and perceived that they were about to lose even their homes, they sent to the town
and promised that if the pirates would put out the fires they would pay the money. In the hope
of more money, and not in the least moved by any feeling of kindness, L'Olonnois ordered his
men to help put out the fires, but they were not extinguished until a quarter of the town was
entirely burned and a fine church reduced to ashes.

When the buccaneers found they could squeeze nothing more out of the town, they went on board
their ships, carrying with them all the plunder and booty they had collected, and among their
spoils were about five hundred slaves, of all ages and both sexes, who had been offered an
opportunity to ransom themselves, but who, of course, had no money with which to buy their
freedom, and who were now condemned to a captivity worse than anything they had ever known before.

Now the eight ships with their demon crews sailed away over the lake toward Maracaibo. It was
quite possible for them to get out to sea without revisiting this unfortunate town, but as
this would have been a very good thing for them to do, it was impossible for them to do it;
no chance to do anything wicked was ever missed by these pirates. Consequently L'Olonnois gave
orders to drop anchor near the city, and then he sent some messengers ashore to inform the
already half-ruined citizens that unless they sent him thirty thousand pieces of eight he would
enter their town again, carry away everything they had left, and burn the place to the ground.
The poor citizens sent a committee to confer with the pirates, and while the negotiations were
going on some of the conscienceless buccaneers went on shore and carried off from one of the
great churches its images, pictures, and even its bells. It was at last arranged that the citizens
should pay twenty thousand pieces of eight, which was the utmost sum they could possibly raise,
and, in addition to this, five hundred head of beef-cattle, and the pirates promised that if
this were done they would depart and molest the town no more. The money was paid, the cattle
were put on board the ships, and to the unspeakable relief of the citizens, the pirate fleet
sailed away from the harbor.

But it would be difficult to express the horror and dismay of those same citizens when, three
days afterward, those pirate ships all came back again. Black despair now fell upon the town;
there was nothing more to be stolen, and these wretches must have repented that they had left
the town standing, and had returned to burn it down. But when one man came ashore in a boat
bringing the intelligence that L'Olonnois could not get his largest ship across a bar at the
entrance to the lake, and that he wanted a pilot to show him the channel, then the spirits
of the people went up like one great united rocket, bursting into the most beautiful coruscations
of sparks and colors. There was nothing on earth that they would be so glad to furnish him
as a pilot to show him how to sail away from their shores. The pilot was instantly sent to
the fleet, and L'Olonnois and his devastating band departed.

They did not go directly to Tortuga, but stopped at a little island near Hispaniola, which
was inhabited by French buccaneers, and this delay was made entirely for the purpose of dividing
the booty. It seems strange that any principle of right and justice should have been regarded
by these dishonest knaves, even in their relations to each other, but they had rigid rules
in regard to the division of their spoils, and according to these curious regulations the whole
amount of plunder was apportioned among the officers and crews of the different ships.

Before the regular allotment of shares was made, the claims of the wounded were fully satisfied
according to their established code. For the loss of a right arm a man was paid about six hundred
dollars or six slaves; for the loss of a left arm, five hundred dollars, or five slaves; for
a missing right leg, five hundred dollars, or five slaves; for a missing left leg, four hundred
dollars, or four slaves; for an eye or a finger, one hundred dollars, or one slave. Then the
rest of the money and spoils were divided among all the buccaneers without reference to what
had been paid to the wounded. The shares of those who had been killed were given to friends
or acquaintances, who undertook to deliver them to their families.

The spoils in this case consisted of two hundred and sixty thousand dollars in money and a
great quantity of valuable goods, besides many slaves and precious stones and jewels. These
latter were apportioned among the men in the most ridiculous manner, the pirates having no
idea of the relative value of the jewels, some of them preferring large and worthless colored
stones to smaller diamonds and rubies. When all their wickedly gained property had been divided,
the pirates sailed to Tortuga, where they proceeded, without loss of time, to get rid of the
wealth they had amassed. They ate, they drank, they gambled; they crowded the taverns as taverns
have never been crowded before; they sold their valuable merchandise for a twentieth part of
its value to some of the more level-headed people of the place; and having rioted, gambled,
and committed every sort of extravagance for about three weeks, the majority of L'Olonnois'
rascally crew found themselves as poor as when they had started off on their expedition. It
took them almost as long to divide their spoils as it did to get rid of them.

As these precious rascals had now nothing to live upon, it was necessary to start out again
and commit some more acts of robbery and ruin; and L'Olonnois, whose rapacious mind seems to
have been filled with a desire for town-destroying, projected an expedition to Nicaragua, where
he proposed to pillage and devastate as many towns and villages as possible. His reputation
as a successful commander was now so high that he had no trouble in getting men, for more offered
themselves than he could possibly take.

He departed with seven hundred men and six ships, stopping on the way near the coast of Cuba,
and robbing some poor fishermen of their boats, which he would need in shallow water. Their
voyage was a very long one, and they were beset by calms, and instead of reaching Nicaragua,
they drifted into the Gulf of Honduras. Here they found themselves nearly out of provisions,
and were obliged to land and scour the country to find something to eat. Leaving their ships,
they began a land march through the unfortunate region where they now found themselves. They
robbed Indians, they robbed villages; they devastated little towns, taking everything that
they cared for, and burning what they did not want, and treating the people they captured with
viler cruelties than any in which the buccaneers had yet indulged. Their great object was to
take everything they could find, and then try to make the people confess where other things
were hidden. Men and women were hacked to pieces with swords; it was L'Olonnois' pleasure,
when a poor victim had nothing to tell, to tear out his tongue with his own hands, and it is
said that on some occasions his fury was so great that he would cut out the heart of a man
and bite at it with his great teeth. No more dreadful miseries could be conceived than those
inflicted upon the peaceful inhabitants of the country through which these wretches passed.
They frequently met ambuscades of Spaniards, who endeavored to stop their progress; but this
was impossible. The pirates were too strong in number and too savage in disposition to be resisted
by ordinary Christians, and they kept on their wicked way.

At last they reached a town called San Pedro, which was fairly well defended, having around
it a great hedge of prickly thorns; but thorns cannot keep out pirates, and after a severe
fight the citizens surrendered, on condition that they should have two hours' truce. This was
given, and the time was occupied by the people in running away into the woods and carrying
off their valuables. But when the two hours had expired, L'Olonnois and his men entered the
town, and instead of rummaging around to see what they could find, they followed the unfortunate
people into the woods, for they well understood what they wanted when they asked for a truce,
and robbed them of nearly everything they had taken away.

But the capture of this town was not of much service to L'Olonnois, who did not find provisions
enough to feed his men. Their supplies ran very low, and it was not long before they were in
danger of starvation. Consequently they made their way by the most direct course to the coast,
where they hoped to be able to get something to eat. If they could find nothing else, they
might at least catch fish. On their way every rascal of them prepared himself a net, made out
of the fibres of a certain plant, which grew in abundance in those regions, in order that he
might catch himself a supper when he reached the sea.

After a time the buccaneers got back to their fleet and remained on the coast about three months,
waiting for some expected Spanish ships, which they hoped to capture. They eventually met with
one, and after a great deal of ordinary fighting and stratagem they boarded and took her, but
found her not a very valuable prize.

Now L'Olonnois proposed to his men that they should sail for Guatemala, but he met with an
unexpected obstacle; the buccaneers who had enlisted under him had expected to make great fortunes
in this expedition, but their high hopes had not been realized. They had had very little booty
and very little food, they were hungry and disappointed and wanted to go home, and the great
majority of them declined to follow L'Olonnois any farther. But there were some who declared
that they would rather die than go home to Tortuga as poor as when they left it, and so remained
with L'Olonnois on the biggest ship of the fleet, which he commanded. The smaller vessels now
departed for Tortuga, and after some trouble L'Olonnois succeeded in getting his vessel out
of the harbor where it had been anchored, and sailed for the islands of de las Pertas. Here
he had the misfortune to run his big vessel hopelessly aground.

When they found it absolutely impossible to get their great vessel off the sand banks, the
pirates set to work to break her up and build a boat out of her planks. This was a serious
undertaking, but it was all they could do. They could not swim away, and their ship was of
no use to them as she was. But when they began to work they had no idea it would take so long
to build a boat. It was several months before the unwieldy craft was finished, and they occupied
part of the time in gardening, planting French beans, which came to maturity in six weeks,
and gave them some fresh vegetables. They also had some stores and portable stoves on board
their dismantled ship, and made bread from some wheat which was among their provisions, thus
managing to live very well.

L'Olonnois was never intended by nature to be a boat-builder, or anything else that was useful
and honest, and when the boat was finished it was discovered that it had been planned so badly
that it would not hold them all, so all they could do was to draw lots to see who should embark
in her, for one-half of them would have to stay until the others came back to release them.
Of course L'Olonnois went away in the boat, and reached the mouth of the Nicaragua River. There
his party was attacked by some Spaniards and Indians, who killed more than half of them and
prevented the others from landing. L'Olonnois and the rest of his men got safely away, and
they might now have sailed back to the island where they had left their comrades, for there
was room enough for them all in the boat. But they did nothing of the sort, but went to the
coast of Cartagena.

The pirates left on the island were eventually taken off by a buccaneering vessel, but L'Olonnois
had now reached the end of the string by which the devil had allowed him to gambol on this
earth for so long a time. On the shores where he had now landed he did not find prosperous
villages, treasure houses, and peaceful inhabitants, who could be robbed and tortured, but
instead of these he came upon a community of Indians, who were called by the Spaniards, Bravos,
or wild men. These people would never have anything to do with the whites. It was impossible
to conquer them or to pacify them by kind treatment. They hated the white man and would have
nothing to do with him. They had heard of L'Olonnois and his buccaneers, and when they found
this notorious pirate upon their shores they were filled with a fury such as they had never
felt for any others of his race.

These bloody pirates had always conquered in their desperate fights because they were so reckless
and so savage, but now they had fallen among thoroughbred savages, more cruel and more brutal
and pitiless than themselves. Nearly all the buccaneers were killed, and L'Olonnois was taken
prisoner. His furious captors tore his living body apart, piece by piece, and threw each fragment
into the fire, and when the whole of this most inhuman of inhuman men had been entirely consumed,
they scattered his ashes to the winds so that not a trace should remain on earth of this monster.
If, in his infancy, he had died of croup, the history of the human race would have lost some
of its blackest pages.

Chapter XVI

A Pirate Potentate

Sometime in the last half of the seventeenth century on a quiet farm in a secluded part of
Wales there was born a little boy baby. His father was a farmer, and his mother churned, and
tended the cows and the chickens, and there was no reason to imagine that this gentle little
baby, born and reared in this rural solitude, would become one of the most formidable pirates
that the world ever knew. Yet such was the case.

The baby's name was Henry Morgan, and as he grew to be a big boy a distaste for farming grew
with him. So strong was his dislike that when he became a young man he ran away to the seacoast,
for he had a fancy to be a sailor. There he found a ship bound for the West Indies, and in
this he started out on his life's career. He had no money to pay his passage, and he therefore
followed the usual custom of those days and sold himself for a term of three years to an agent
who was taking out a number of men to work on the plantations. In the places where these men
were enlisted they were termed servants, but when they got to the new world they were generally
called slaves and treated as such.

When young Morgan reached the Barbadoes he was resold to a planter, and during his term of
service he probably worked a good deal harder and was treated much more roughly than any of
the laborers on his father's farm. But as soon as he was a free man he went to Jamaica, and
there were few places in the world where a young man could be more free and more independent
than in this lawless island.

Here were rollicking and blustering "flibustiers," and here the young man determined to study
piracy. He was not a sailor and hunter who by the force of circumstances gradually became a
buccaneer, but he deliberately selected his profession, and immediately set to work to acquire
a knowledge of its practice. There was a buccaneer ship about to sail from Jamaica, and on
this Morgan enlisted. He was a clever fellow and very soon showed himself to be a brave and
able sailor.

After three or four voyages he acquired a reputation for remarkable coolness in emergencies,
and showed an ability to take advantage of favorable circumstances, which was not possessed
by many of his comrades. These prominent traits in his character became the foundation of his
success. He also proved himself a very good business man, and having saved a considerable amount
of money he joined with some other buccaneers and bought a ship, of which he took command.
This ship soon made itself a scourge in the Spanish seas; no other buccaneering vessel was
so widely known and so greatly feared, and the English people in these regions were as proud
of the young Captain Morgan as if he had been a regularly commissioned admiral, cruising against
an acknowledged enemy.

Returning from one of his voyages Morgan found an old buccaneer, named Mansvelt, in Jamaica,
who had gathered together a fleet of vessels with which he was about to sail for the mainland.
This expedition seemed a promising one to Morgan, and he joined it, being elected vice-admiral
of the fleet of fifteen vessels. Since the successes of L'Olonnois and others, attacks upon
towns had become very popular with the buccaneers, whose leaders were getting to be tired of
the retail branch of their business; that is, sailing about in one ship and capturing such
merchantmen as it might fall in with.

Mansvelt's expedition took with it not only six hundred fighting pirates, but one writing pirate,
for John Esquemeling accompanied it, and so far as the fame and reputation of these adventurers
was concerned his pen was mightier than their swords, for had it not been for his account of
their deeds very little about them would have been known to the world.

The fleet sailed directly for St. Catherine, an island near Costa Rica, which was strongly
fortified by the Spaniards and used by them as a station for ammunition and supplies, and also
as a prison. The pirates landed upon the island and made a most furious assault upon the fortifications,
and although they were built of stone and well furnished with cannon, the savage assailants
met with their usual good fortune. They swarmed over the walls and carried the place at the
edge of the cutlass and the mouth of the pistol. In this fierce fight Morgan performed such
feats of valor that even some of the Spaniards who had been taken prisoners, were forced to
praise his extraordinary courage and ability as a leader.

The buccaneers proceeded to make very good use of their victory. They captured some small adjoining
islands and brought the cannon from them to the main fortress, which they put in a good condition
of defence. Here they confined all their prisoners and slaves, and supplied the island with
an abundance of stores and provisions.

It is believed that when Mansvelt formed the plan of capturing this island he did so with the
idea of founding there a permanent pirate principality, the inhabitants of which should not
consider themselves English, French, or Dutch, but plain pirates, having a nationality and
country of their own. Had the seed thus planted by Mansvelt and Morgan grown and matured, it
is not unlikely that the whole of the West Indies might now be owned and inhabited by an independent
nation, whose founders were the bold buccaneers.

When everything had been made tight and right at St. Catherine, Mansvelt and Morgan sailed
for the mainland, for the purpose of attacking an inland town called Nata, but in this expedition
they were not successful. The Spanish Governor of the province had heard of their approach,
and met them with a body of soldiers so large that they prudently gave up the attempt,--a proceeding
not very common with them, but Morgan was not only a dare-devil of a pirate, but a very shrewd
Welshman.

They returned to the ships, and after touching at St. Catherine and leaving there enough men
to defend it, under the command of a Frenchman named Le Sieur Simon, they sailed for Jamaica.
Everything at St. Catherine was arranged for permanent occupation; there was plenty of fresh
water, and the ground could be cultivated, and Simon was promised that additional forces should
be sent him so that he could hold the island as a regular station for the assembling and fitting
out of pirate vessels.

The permanent pirate colony never came to anything; no reënforcements were sent; Mansvelt died,
and the Spaniards gathered together a sufficient force to retake the island of St. Catherine,
and make prisoners of Simon and his men. This was a blow to Morgan, who had had great hopes
of the fortified station he thought he had so firmly established, but after the project failed
he set about forming another expedition.

He was now recognized as buccaneer-in-chief of the West Indies, and he very soon gathered together
twelve ships and seven hundred men. Everything was made ready to sail, and the only thing left
to be done was to decide what particular place they should favor with a visit.

There were some who advised an attack upon Havana, giving as a reason that in that city there
were a great many nuns, monks, and priests, and if they could capture them, they might ask
as ransom for them, a sum a great deal larger than they could expect to get from the pillage
of an ordinary town. But Havana was considered to be too strong a place for a profitable venture,
and after several suggestions had been made, at last a deserter from the Spanish army, who
had joined them, came forward with a good idea. He told the pirates of a town in Cuba, to which
he knew the way; it was named Port-au-Prince, and was situated so far inland that it had never
been sacked. When the pirates heard that there existed an entirely fresh and unpillaged town,
they were filled with as much excited delight as if they had been a party of school-boys who
had just been told where they might find a tree full of ripe apples which had been overlooked
by the men who had been gathering the crop.

When Morgan's fleet arrived at the nearest harbor to Port-au-Prince, he landed his men and
marched toward the town, but he did not succeed in making a secret attack, as he had hoped.
One of his prisoners, a Spaniard, let himself drop overboard as soon as the vessels cast anchor,
and swimming ashore, hurried to Port-au-Prince and informed the Governor of the attack which
was about to be made on the town. Thus prepared, this able commander knew just what to do.
He marched a body of soldiers along the road by which the pirates must come, and when he found
a suitable spot he caused great trees to be cut down and laid across the road, thus making
a formidable barricade. Behind this his soldiers were posted with their muskets and their cannon,
and when the pirates should arrive they would find that they would have to do some extraordinary
fighting before they could pass this well-defended barrier.

When Morgan came within sight of this barricade, he understood that the Spaniards had discovered
his approach, and so he called a halt. He had always been opposed to unnecessary work, and
he considered that it would be entirely unnecessary to attempt to disturb this admirable defence,
so he left the road, marched his men into the woods, led them entirely around the barricades,
and then, after proceeding a considerable distance, emerged upon a wide plain which lay before
the town. Here he found that he would have to fight his way into the city, and, probably much
to his surprise, his men were presently charged by a body of cavalry.

Pirates, as a rule, have nothing to do with horses, either in peace or war, and the Governor
of the town no doubt thought that when his well-armed horsemen charged upon these men, accustomed
to fighting on the decks of ships, and totally unused to cavalry combats, he would soon scatter
and disperse them. But pirates are peculiar fighters; if they had been attacked from above
by means of balloons, or from below by mines and explosives, they would doubtless have adapted
their style of defence to the method of attack. They always did this, and according to Esquemeling
they nearly always got the better of their enemies; but we must remember that in cases where
they did not succeed, as happened when they marched against the town of Nata, he says very
little about the affair and amplifies only the accounts of their successes.

But the pirates routed the horsemen, and, after a fight of about four hours, they routed all
the other Spaniards who resisted them, and took possession of the town. Here they captured
a great many prisoners which they shut up in the churches and then sent detachments out into
the country to look for those who had run away. Then these utterly debased and cruel men began
their usual course after capturing a town; they pillaged, feasted, and rioted; they gave no
thought to the needs of the prisoners whom they had shut up in the churches, many of whom starved
to death; they tortured the poor people to make them tell where they had hid their treasures,
and nothing was too vile or too wicked for them to do if they thought they could profit by
it. They had come for the express purpose of taking everything that the people possessed, and
until they had forced from them all that was of the slightest value, they were not satisfied.
Even when the poor citizens seemed to have given up everything they owned they were informed
that if they did not pay two heavy ransoms, one to protect themselves from being carried away
into slavery, and one to keep their town from being burned, the same punishments would be inflicted
upon them.

For two weeks the pirates waited for the unfortunate citizens to go out into the country and
find some of their townsmen who had escaped with a portion of their treasure. In those days
people did not keep their wealth in banks as they do now, but every man was the custodian of
most of his own possessions, and when they fled from the visitation of an enemy they took with
them everything of value that they could carry. If their fortunes had been deposited in banks,
it would doubtless have been more convenient for the pirates.

Before the citizens returned Morgan made a discovery: a negro was captured who carried letters
from the Governor of Santiago, a neighboring city, to some of the citizens of Port-au-Prince,
telling them not to be in too great a hurry to pay the ransom demanded by the pirates, because
he was coming with a strong force to their assistance. When Morgan read these letters, he changed
his mind, and thought it would be a wise thing not to stay in that region any longer than could
be helped. So he decided not to wait for the unfortunate citizens to collect the heavy ransom
he demanded, but told them that if they would furnish him with five hundred head of cattle,
and also supply salt and help prepare the meat for shipment, he would make no further demands
upon them. This, of course, the citizens were glad enough to do, and when the buccaneers had
carried to the ships everything they had stolen, and when the beef had been put on board, they
sailed away.

Morgan directed the course of the fleet to a small island on which he wished to land in order
that they might take an account of stock and divide the profits. This the pirates always did
as soon as possible after they had concluded one of their nefarious enterprises. But his men
were not at all satisfied with what happened on the island. Morgan estimated the total value
of the booty to be about fifty thousand dollars, and when this comparatively small sum was
divided, many of the men complained that it would not give them enough to pay their debts in
Jamaica. They were utterly astonished that after having sacked an entirely fresh town they
should have so little, and there is no doubt that many of them believed that their leader was
a man who carried on the business of piracy for the purpose of enriching himself, while he
gave his followers barely enough to keep them quiet.

There was, however, another cause of discontent among a large body of the men; it appears that
the men were very fond of marrow-bones, and while they were yet at Port-au-Prince and the prisoners
were salting the meat which was to go on the ships, the buccaneers went about among them and
took the marrow-bones which they cooked and ate while they were fresh. One of the men, a Frenchman,
had selected a very fine bone, and had put it by his side while he was preparing some other
tidbits, when an Englishman came along, picked up the bone, and carried it away.

Now even in the chronicles of Mother Goose we are told of the intimate connection between Welshmen,
thievery, and marrow-bones; for

    "Taffy was a Welshman,
      Taffy was a thief,
    Taffy came to my house
      And stole a leg of beef.

    "I went to Taffy's house,
      Taffy wasn't home,
    Taffy went to my house,
      And stole a marrow-bone."

What happened to Taffy we do not know, but Morgan was a Welshman, Morgan was a thief, and one
of his men had stolen a marrow-bone; therefore came trouble. The Frenchman challenged the Englishman;
but the latter, being a mean scoundrel, took advantage of his opponent, unfairly stabbed him
in the back and killed him.

Now all the Frenchmen in the company rose in furious protest, and Morgan, wishing to pacify
them, had the English assassin put in chains, and promised that he would take him to Jamaica
and deliver him to justice. But the Frenchmen declined to be satisfied; they had received but
very little money after they had pillaged a rich town, and they believed that their English
companions were inclined to take advantage of them in every way, and consequently the greater
part of them banded together and deliberately deserted Morgan, who was obliged to go back to
Jamaica with not more than half his regular forces, doubtless wishing that the cattle on the
island of Cuba had been able to get along without marrow-bones.

Chapter XVII

How Morgan was helped by Some Religious People

When the Welsh buccaneer started out on another expedition his company consisted entirely of
Englishmen, and was not nearly so large as it had been; when he announced to his followers
that he intended to attack the fortified town of Porto Bello, on the mainland, there was a
general murmuring among the men, for Porto Bello was one of the strongest towns possessed by
the Spaniards, and the buccaneers did not believe that their comparatively small force would
be able to take it. But Morgan made them a speech in which he endeavored to encourage them
to follow him in this difficult undertaking. One of his arguments was, that although their
numbers were small, their hearts were large; but he produced the greatest effect upon them
when he said that as they were but a few, each man's share of the booty would be much larger
than if it must be divided among a great number. This touched the souls of the pirates, and
they vowed to follow their leader wherever he might take them.

The buccaneers found Porto Bello a very hard nut to crack; they landed and marched upon the
town, which was defended by several forts or castles. Even when one of these had been taken
by assault, and after it had been blown up with all its garrison, who had been taken prisoners,
still the town was not intimidated, and the Governor vowed he would never surrender, but would
die fighting to the last. The pirates raged like demons; they shot down every man they could
see at the cannon or upon the walls, and they made desperate efforts to capture the principal
fort, but they did not succeed, and after a long time Morgan began to despair. The garrison
was strong and well commanded, and whenever the pirates attempted to scale the wall they were
shot down, while fire-pots full of powder, with stones and other missiles, were hurled upon them.

At last the wily Morgan had an idea. He set his men to work to make some ladders high enough
to reach to the top of the walls, and wide enough to allow three or four men to go up abreast.
If he could get these properly set up, his crew of desperate tiger-cats could make a combined
rush and get over the walls. But to carry the ladders and place them would be almost impossible,
for the men who bore them would surely be shot down before they could finish the work. But
it was not Morgan's plan that his men should carry these ladders. He had captured some convents
in the suburbs of the town, with a number of nuns and monks, known as "religious people," and
he now ordered these poor creatures, the women as well as the men, to take up the ladders and
place them against the walls, believing that the Spanish Governor would not allow his soldiers
to fire at these innocent persons whom the pirates had forced to do their will.

But the Governor was determined to defend the town no matter who had to suffer, and so the
soldiers fired at the nuns and monks just as though they were buccaneers or any other enemies.
The "religious people" cried out in terror, and screamed to their friends not to fire upon
them; but the soldiers obeyed the commands of the Governor, while the pirates were swearing
terribly behind them and threatening them with their pistols, and so the poor nuns and monks
had to press forward, many of them dropping dead or wounded. They continued their work until
the ladders were placed, and then over the walls went the pirates, with yells and howls of
triumph, and not long after that the town was taken. The Governor died, fighting in the principal
fort, and the citizens and soldiers all united in the most vigorous defence; but it was of
no use. Each pirate seemed to have not only nine lives, but nine arms, each one wielding a
cutlass or aiming a pistol.

When the fighting was over, the second act in the horrible drama took place as usual. The pirates
ate, drank, rioted, and committed all manner of outrages and cruelties upon the inhabitants,
closing the performance with the customary threat that if the already distressed and impoverished
inhabitants did not pay an enormous ransom, their town would be burned.

Before the ransom was paid, the Governor of Panama heard what was going on at Porto Bello,
and sent a force to the assistance of the town, but this time the buccaneers did not hastily
retreat, Morgan knew of a narrow defile through which the Spanish forces must pass, and there
he posted a number of his men, who defended the pass so well that the Spaniards were obliged
to retreat.

This courteous correspondence was continued by the Governor returning the pistol and balls
with thanks, and also sending Morgan a handsome gold ring with the message that he need not
trouble himself to come to Panama; for, if he did, he would meet with very different fortune
from that which had come to him at Porto Bello.

Morgan put the ring on his finger and postponed his reply, and, as soon as the ransom was paid,
he put his booty on board his ships and departed. When the spoils of Porto Bello came to be
counted, it was found that they were of great value, and each man received a lordly share.

When Captain Morgan was ready to set out on another expedition, he found plenty of pirates
ready to join him, and he commanded all the ships and men whom he enlisted to rendezvous at
a place called the Isle of Cows. A fine, large, English ship had recently come to Jamaica from
New England, and this vessel also joined Morgan's forces on the island, where the pirate leader
took this ship as his own, being much the best and largest vessel of the fleet.

Besides the ships belonging to Morgan, there was in the harbor where they were now congregated,
a fine vessel belonging to some French buccaneers, and Morgan desired very much that this vessel
should join his fleet, but the French cherished hard feelings against the English, and would
not join them.

Although Morgan was a brave man, his meanness was quite equal to his courage, and he determined
to be revenged upon these Frenchmen who had refused to give him their aid, and therefore played
a malicious trick upon them. Sometime before, this French vessel, being out of provisions when
upon the high seas, had met an English ship, and had taken from her such supplies as it had
needed. The captain did not pay for these, being out of money as well as food, not an uncommon
thing among buccaneers, but they gave the English notes of exchange payable in Jamaica; but
as these notes were never honored, the people of the English ship had never been paid for their
provisions.

This affair properly arranged in Morgan's mind, he sent a very polite note to the captain of
the French ship and some of his officers, inviting them to dine with him on his own vessel.
The French accepted the invitation, but when Morgan received them on board his ship he did
not conduct them down to dinner; instead of that, he began to upbraid them for the manner in
which they had treated an English crew, and then he ordered them to be taken down below and
imprisoned in the hold. Having accomplished this, and feeling greatly elated by this piece
of sly vengeance, he went into his fine cabin, and he and his officers sat down to the grand
feast he had prepared.

There were fine times on board this great English ship; the pirates were about to set forth
on an important expedition, and they celebrated the occasion by eating and drinking, firing
guns, and all manner of riotous hilarity. In the midst of the wild festivities--and nobody
knew how it happened--a spark of fire got into the powder magazine, and the ship blew up, sending
the lifeless bodies of three hundred English sailors, and the French prisoners, high into the
air. The only persons on board who escaped were Morgan and his officers who were in the cabin
close to the stern of the vessel, at some distance from the magazine.

This terrible accident threw the pirate fleet into great confusion for a time; but Morgan soon
recovered himself, and, casting about to see what was the best thing to be done, it came into
his head that he would act the part of the wolf in the fable of the wolf and the lamb. As there
was no way of finding out how the magazine happened to explode, he took the ground that the
French prisoners whom he had shut up in the hold, had thrown a lighted match into the magazine,
wishing thus to revenge themselves even though they should, at the same time, lose their own
lives. The people of the French ship bitterly opposed any such view of the case, but their
protestations were of no use; they might declare as much as they pleased that it was impossible
for them to make the waters muddy, being lower down in the stream than the wolfish pirate who
was accusing them, but it availed nothing. Morgan sprang upon them and their ship, and sent
them to Jamaica, where, upon his false charge, they were shut up in prison, and so remained
for a long time.

Such atrocious wickedness as the treatment of the nuns and monks, described in this chapter,
would never have been countenanced in any warfare between civilized nations. But Morgan's pirates
were not making war; they were robbers and murderers on a grand scale. They had no right to
call themselves civilized; they were worse than barbarians.

Chapter XVIII

A Piratical Aftermath

Morgan's destination was the isle of Savona, near which a great Spanish fleet was expected
to pass, and here he hoped to make some rich prizes. But when he got out to sea he met with
contrary and dangerous winds, which delayed him a long time, and eventually when he arrived
at Savona, after having landed at various places, where he pillaged, murdered, and burned,
according to the extent of his opportunities, he found at least one-half of his men and ships
had not arrived. With the small force which he now had with him he could not set out to attack
a Spanish fleet, and therefore he was glad to accept the suggestion made to him by a Frenchman
who happened to be in his company.

This man had been with L'Olonnois two years before when that bloody pirate had sacked the towns
of Maracaibo and Gibraltar; he had made himself perfectly familiar with the fortifications
and defences of these towns, and he told Morgan that it would be easy to take them. To be sure
they had been thoroughly sacked before, and therefore did not offer the tempting inducements
of perfectly fresh towns, such as Port-au-Prince, but still in two years the inhabitants must
have gathered together some possessions desirable to pirates, and therefore, although Morgan
could not go to these towns with the expectation of reaping a full harvest, he might at least
gather up an aftermath which would pay him for his trouble.

So away sailed this horde of ravenous scoundrels for the lake of Maracaibo, at the outer end
of which lay the town of Maracaibo, and at the other extremity the town of Gibraltar. When
they had sailed near enough to the fortifications they anchored out of sight of the watch-tower
and, landing in the night, marched on one of the forts. Here the career of Morgan came very
near closing forever. The Spaniards had discovered the approach of the pirates, and this fort
had been converted into a great trap in which the citizens hoped to capture and destroy the
pirate leader and his men. Everybody had left the fort, the gates were open, and a slow-match,
communicating with the magazine, had been lighted just before the last Spaniard had left.

But the oldest and most sagacious of rats would be no more difficult to entrap than was the
wily pirate Morgan. When he entered the open gates of the fort and found everything in perfect
order, he suspected a trick, and looking about him he soon saw the smouldering match. Instantly
he made a dash at it, seized it and extinguished the fire. Had he been delayed in this discovery
a quarter of an hour longer, he and his men would have been blown to pieces along with the fort.

Now the pirates pressed on toward the town, but they met with no resistance. The Spaniards,
having failed to blow up their dreaded enemies, had retreated into the surrounding country
and had left the town. The triumphant pirates spread themselves everywhere. They searched the
abandoned town for people and valuables, and every man who cared to do so took one of the empty
houses for his private residence. They made the church the common meeting-place where they
might all gather together when it was necessary, and when they had spent the night in eating
and drinking all the good things they could find, they set out the next day to hunt for the
fugitive citizens.

For three weeks Morgan and his men held a devil's carnival in Maracaibo. To tell of the abominable
tortures and cruelties which they inflicted upon the poor people, whom they dragged from their
hiding-places in the surrounding country, would make our flesh creep and our blood run cold.
When they could do no more evil they sailed away up the lake for Gibraltar.

It is not necessary to tell the story of the taking of this town. When Morgan arrived there
he found it also entirely deserted. The awful dread of the human beasts who were coming upon
them had forced the inhabitants to fly. In the whole town only one man was left, and he was
an idiot who had not sense enough to run away. This poor fellow was tortured to tell where
his treasures were hid, and when he consented to take them to the place where he had concealed
his possessions, they found a few broken earthen dishes, and a little bit of money, about as
much as a poor imbecile might be supposed to possess. Thereupon the disappointed fiends cruelly
killed him.

For five weeks the country surrounding Gibraltar was the scene of a series of diabolical horrors.
The pirates undertook the most hazardous and difficult expeditions in order to find the people
who had hidden themselves on islands and in the mountains, and although they obtained a great
deal of booty, they met with a good many misfortunes. Some of them were drowned in swollen
streams, and others lost much of their pillage by rains and storms.

At last, after having closed his vile proceedings in the ordinary pirate fashion, by threatening
to burn the town if he were not paid a ransom, Morgan thought it time for him to depart, for
if the Spaniards should collect a sufficient force at Maracaibo to keep him from getting out
of the lake, he would indeed be caught in a trap. The ransom was partly paid and partly promised,
and Morgan and his men departed, carrying with them some hostages for the rest of the ransom due.

When Morgan and his fleet arrived at Maracaibo, they found the town still deserted, but they
also discovered that they were caught in the trap which they had feared, out of which they
saw no way of escaping. News had been sent the Spanish forces; of the capture and sacking of
Maracaibo, and three large men-of-war now lay in the channel below the town which led from
the lake into the sea. And more than this, the castle which defended the entrance to the lake,
and which the pirates had found empty when they arrived, was now well manned and supplied with
a great many cannon, so that for once in their lives these wicked buccaneers were almost discouraged.
Their little ships could not stand against the men-of-war; and in any case they could not pass
the castle, which was now prepared to blow them to pieces if they should come near enough.

But in the midst of these disheartening circumstances, the pirate leader showed what an arrogant,
blustering dare-devil he was, for, instead of admitting his discomfiture and trying to make
terms with the Spaniards, he sent a letter to the admiral of the ships, in which he stated
that if he did not allow him a free passage out to sea he would burn every house in Maracaibo.
To this insolent threat, the Spanish admiral replied in a long letter, in which he told Morgan
that if he attempted to leave the lake he would fire upon his ships, and, if necessary, follow
them out to sea, until not a stick of one of them should be left. But in the great magnanimity
of his soul he declared that he would allow Morgan to sail away freely, provided he would deliver
all the booty he had captured, together with the prisoners and slaves, and promise to go home
and abandon buccaneering forever. In case he declined these terms, the admiral declared he
would come up the channel in boats filled with his soldiers and put every pirate to the sword.

When Morgan received this letter, he called his men together in the public square of the town,
and asked them what they would do, and when these fellows heard that they were asked to give
up all their booty, they unanimously voted that they would perish rather than do such an unmanly
thing as that. So it was agreed that they would fight themselves out of the lake of Maracaibo,
or stay there, dead or alive, as the case might be.

Chapter XIX

A Tight Place for Morgan

At this important crisis again turned up the man with an idea. This was an inventive buccaneer,
who proposed to Morgan that they should take a medium-sized ship which they had captured at
the other end of the lake, and make a fire-ship of her. In order that the Spaniards might not
suspect the character of this incendiary craft, he proposed that they should fit her up like
one of the pirate war-vessels, for in this case the Spaniards would not try to get away from
her, but would be glad to have her come near enough for them to capture her.

Morgan was pleased with this plan, and the fire-ship was prepared with all haste. All the pitch,
tar, and brimstone in the town were put on board of her, together with other combustibles.
On the deck were placed logs of wood, which were dressed up in coats and hats to look like
men, and by their sides were muskets and cutlasses. Portholes were made, and in these were
placed other logs to represent cannon. Thus this merchant vessel, now as inflammable as a pine
knot, was made to resemble a somewhat formidable pirate ship. The rest of the fleet was made
ready, the valuables and prisoners and slaves were put on board; and they all sailed boldly
down toward the Spanish vessels, the fire-ship in front.

When the Spanish admiral saw this insignificant fleet approaching, he made ready to sink it
to the bottom, and when the leading vessel made its way directly toward his own ship, as if
with the impudent intention of boarding her, he did not fire at her, but let her come on. The
few pirates on board the fire-ship ran her up against the side of the great man-of-war; and
after making her fast and applying their matches, they immediately slipped overboard, and swam
to one of their own vessels before the Spaniards had an idea of what had happened. The fire-ship
was soon ablaze, and as the flames quickly spread, the large vessel took fire, and the people
on board had scarcely time to get out of her before she sank.

The commander of one of the other ships was so much frightened by what had occurred in so short
a space of time that he ran his vessel aground and wrecked her, her men jumping out into the
water and making for the land. As for the other ship, the pirates boldly attacked her and captured
her, and as she was a very fine vessel, Morgan left his own small vessel, in which he had been
commanding his fleet, and took possession of her. Thus, in a very short time, the whole state
of affairs was changed. The Spaniards had no ships at all, and Morgan was in command of a very
fine vessel, in which he led his triumphant fleet.

Victory is a grand thing to a pirate as it is to every human being who has been engaged in
a conflict, but none of the joys of triumph could equal the sordid rapacity of Morgan and his
men. They spent days in trying to recover the money and plate which were on board the sunken
Spanish ships. The sterns of these projected above water, and a great deal of valuable treasure
was recovered from them. The pirates worked very hard at this, although they had not the slightest
idea how they were to pass the castle and get away with the plunder after they had obtained it.

When the wrecks had been stripped of everything of value, the time came for demanding a ransom
for not burning the town and hanging the prisoners, and as the poor citizens knew very well
what they might expect, they sent word to the admiral, who had escaped to the castle, begging
him to accede to the demands of Morgan, and to let the wretched pirates go. But the admiral,
Don Alonso, was a thoroughbred Spaniard, and he would listen to no such cowardly suggestion.
He would consent to no ransom being paid, and on no account would he allow the pirates to pass
the channel. The citizens, however, who knew what was good for them, raised the money, and
paid the ransom in coin and cattle, and Morgan declared that if the admiral would not let him
out of the lake, he would have to attend to that matter himself.

But before he made another bold stroke against the enemy his stingy and niggardly spirit urged
him to defend himself against his friends, and before endeavoring to leave he ordered a division
of the spoils. Many of the goods taken from the two towns were on board the different vessels
of the fleet, and he was very much afraid that if his comrades, who commanded the other ships,
should be so fortunate as to get out to sea, they would sail away with the booty they carried,
and he would not see any of it. Therefore, the booty from every ship was brought on board his
own fine vessel, and every man was put through an examination as rigid as if he had been passing
a custom house, and was obliged to prove that he had not concealed or kept back any money or
jewels. The value of the plunder was very great, and when it had been divided, according to
the scale which Morgan had adopted, the pirate leader felt safe. He now had his share of the
prizes in his own possession, and that to him was more important than anything else in the world.

The question of getting away was a very serious one; the greater part of his fleet consisted
of small vessels which could not defy the guns of the fort, and as the stout hearts and brawny
arms of his followers could be of no use to him in this dilemma, Morgan was obliged to fall
back upon his own brains; therefore, he planned a trick.

When everything had been prepared for departure, Morgan anchored his fleet at a distance from
the castle, but not so far away that the Spaniards could not observe his movements. Then he
loaded some boats with armed men and had them rowed ashore on the side of the channel on which
the castle stood. The boats landed behind a little wood, and there the men, instead of getting
out, crouched themselves down in the bottom of the boats so that they should not be seen. Then
the boats, apparently empty, were rowed back to the pirate ships, and in a short time, again
full of men sitting, upright, with their muskets and cutlasses, they went to the shore, and
soon afterwards returned apparently empty as before.

This performance was repeated over and over again, until the people in the castle were convinced
that Morgan was putting his men on shore in order to make a land attack upon the rear of the
castle during the night. But the Spanish admiral was not to be caught by any such clumsy stratagem
as that, and, therefore, in great haste he had his big cannon moved to the land side of the
fort, and posted there the greater part of his garrison in order that when the pirates made
their assault in the dead of the night they would meet with a reception for which they had
not bargained.

When it was dark, and the tide began to run out, the pirate vessels weighed anchor, and they
all drifted down toward the castle. Morgan's spies had perceived some of the extraordinary
movements in the Spanish fortifications, and he therefore drifted down with a good deal of
confidence, although, had his trick been discovered in time it would have gone very hard with
his fleet. It is probable that he had taken all these chances into consideration and had felt
pretty sure that if the cannon of the fort had been opened upon them it would not have been
the big ship which carried him and his precious load which would have been sunk by the great
guns, and that no matter what happened to the smaller vessels and the men on board them, he
and his own ship would be able to sail away.

But the Spaniards did not perceive the approach of the drifting fleet, for they were intrepidly
waiting at the back of the castle to make it very hot for the pirates when they should arrive.
Slowly past the great walls of the fort drifted the fleet of buccaneers, and then, at a signal,
every vessel hoisted its sails, and, with a good wind, sailed rapidly toward the open sea.
The last pirate vessel had scarcely passed the fort when the Spaniards discovered what was
going on, and in great haste they rolled their cannon back to the water side of the fort and
began firing furiously, but it was of no use.

The pirates sailed on until they were out of danger, and then they anchored and arranged for
putting on shore the greater number of their prisoners, who were only an encumbrance to them.
As a parting insult, Morgan fired seven or eight of his largest guns at the castle, whose humiliated
occupants did not reply by a single shot.

In order to understand what thoroughly contemptible scoundrels these pirates were it may be
stated that when Morgan and his men reached Jamaica after a good deal of storm and trouble
on the way, they found there many of their comrades who had not been able to join them at their
rendezvous at Savona. These unfortunate fellows, who had not known where Morgan had gone and
were unable to join him, had endeavored to do some piratical business of their own, but had
had very little luck and a great many misfortunes. Morgan's men, with their pockets full of
money, jeered and sneered at their poor comrades who had had such hard times, and without any
thought of sharing with them the least portion of their own vile gains they treated them with
contempt and derision.

The buccaneer, Captain Henry Morgan, was now a very great personage, but with his next expedition,
which was a very important one, and in its extent resembled warfare rather than piracy, we
shall have little to do because his exploits in this case were not performed on our Atlantic
coasts, but over the Isthmus, on the shores of the Pacific.

Morgan raised a great fleet, carrying a little army of two thousand men, and with this he made
his way to the other side of the Isthmus and attacked the city of Panama, which, of course,
he captured. His terrible deeds at this place resembled those which he performed after the
capture of the smaller towns which we have been considering, except that they were on a scale
of greater magnitude. Nearly the whole of the town of Panama was burned, and the excesses,
cruelties, and pillages of the conquerors were something almost without parallel.

Before marching overland to Panama, Morgan had recaptured the island of St. Catherine, which
was a very valuable station for his purposes, and had also taken the castle of Chagres on the
mainland near by, and on his return from the conquest and pillage of the unfortunate city he
and his forces gathered together at Chagres in order to divide the spoils.

Now came great trouble and dissatisfaction; many of the buccaneers loudly declared that Morgan
was taking everything that was really valuable for his own, especially the precious stones
and jewels, and that they were getting a very small share of the booty of Panama. There seemed
to be good reason for these complaints, for the sum of about two hundred dollars apiece was
all that Morgan's men received after their terrible hardships and dangers and the pillage of
a very rich town. The murmurings and complaints against Morgan's peculiar methods became louder
and more frequent, and at last the wily Welshman began to be afraid that serious trouble would
come to him if he did not take care of himself. This, however, he was very capable of doing.
Silently and quietly one night, without giving notice to any of the buccaneers at Chagres,
except a few who were in his secret, Morgan, in his large ship, sailed away for Jamaica, followed
by only a few other vessels, containing some of his favored companions.

When the great body of the buccaneers, the principal portion of which were Frenchmen, found
that their leader had deserted them, there was a grand commotion, and if they had been able,
the furious men who had had this trick played upon them, would have followed Morgan to treat
him as they had so often treated the Spaniards. But they could not follow--Morgan had taken
great care that this should not happen. Their ships were out of order; they had been left very
short of provisions and ammunition, and found that not only were they unable to avenge themselves
on their traitor leader, but that it would be very hard for them to get away at all.

Poor Esquemeling, the literary pirate, was one of those who was left behind, and in his doleful
state he made the following reflection, which we quote from his book: "Captain Morgan left
us all in such a miserable condition as might serve for a lively representation of what rewards
attend wickedness at the latter end of life. Whence we ought to have learned how to regulate
and amend our actions for the future."

After Morgan had safely reached Jamaica with all his booty, the idea renewed itself in his
mind of returning to St. Catherine, fortifying the place and putting it in complete order,
and then occupying it as a station for all pirates, with himself the supreme governor and king
of the buccaneers. But before he had completed his arrangements for doing this there was a
change in the affairs at Jamaica: the king of England, having listened to the complaints of
the Spanish crown, had recalled the former Governor and put him on trial to answer for the
manner in which he allowed the island to be used by the pirates for their wicked purposes against
a friendly nation, and had sent a new Governor with orders to allow no buccaneers in Jamaica,
and in every way to suppress piracy in those parts.

Now the shrewd Morgan saw that his present business was likely to become a very undesirable
one, and he accordingly determined to give it up. Having brutally pillaged and most cruelly
treated the Spaniards as long as he was able to do so, and having cheated and defrauded his
friends and companions to the utmost extent possible, he made up his mind to reform, and a
more thoroughly base and contemptible reformed scoundrel was never seen on the face of the earth.

Morgan was now a rich man, and he lost no time in becoming very respectable. He endeavored
to win favor with the new Governor, and was so successful that when that official was obliged
to return to England on account of his health, he left the ex-pirate in charge of the affairs
of the island in the capacity of Deputy-Governor. More than this, King Charles, who apparently
had heard of Morgan's great bravery and ability, and had not cared to listen to anything else
about him, knighted him, and this preëminent and inhuman water-thief became Sir Henry Morgan.

In his new official capacity Morgan was very severe upon his former associates, and when any
of them were captured and brought before him, he condemned some to be imprisoned and some to
be hung, and in every way apparently endeavored to break up the unlawful business of buccaneering.

About this time John Esquemeling betook himself to Europe with all possible despatch, for he
had work to do and things to tell with which the Deputy-Governor would have no sympathy whatever.
He got away safely, and he wrote his book, and if he had not had this good fortune, the world
would have lost a great part of the story of what happened to the soft little baby who was
born among the quiet green fields of Wales.

Even during the time that he was Deputy-Governor, Morgan was suspected of sharing in the gains
of some buccaneers at the same time that he punished others, and after the death of Charles
II. he was sent to England and imprisoned, but what eventually became of him we do not know.
If he succeeded in ill-using and defrauding his Satanic Majesty, there is no record of the fact.

Chapter XX

The Story of a High-Minded Pirate

After having considered the extraordinary performances of so many of those execrable wretches,
the buccaneers, it is refreshing and satisfactory to find that there were exceptions even to
the rules which governed the conduct and general make-up of the ordinary pirate of the period,
and we are therefore glad enough to tell the story of a man, who, although he was an out-and-out
buccaneer, possessed some peculiar characteristics which give him a place of his own in the
history of piracy.

In the early part of these sketches we have alluded to a gentleman of France, who, having become
deeply involved in debt, could see no way of putting himself in a condition to pay his creditors
but to go into business of some kind. He had no mercantile education, he had not learned any
profession, and it was therefore necessary for him to do something for which a previous preparation
was not absolutely essential.

After having carefully considered all the methods of making money which were open to him under
the circumstances, he finally concluded to take up piracy and literature. Even at the present
day it is considered by many persons that one of these branches of industry is a field of action
especially adapted to those who have not had the opportunity of giving the time and study necessary
in any other method of making a living.

The French gentleman whose adventures we are about to relate was a very different man from
John Esquemeling, who was a literary pirate and nothing more. Being of a clerkly disposition,
the gentle John did not pretend to use the sabre or the pistol. His part in life was simply
to watch his companions fight, burn, and steal, while his only weapon was his pen, with which
he set down their exploits and thereby murdered their reputations.

But Monsieur Raveneau de Lussan was both buccaneer and author, and when he had finished his
piratical career he wrote a book in which he gave a full account of it, thus showing that although
he had not been brought up to a business life, he had very good ideas about money-making.

More than that, he had very good ideas about his own reputation, and instead of leaving his
exploits and adventures to be written up by other people,--that is, if any one should think
it worth while to do so,--he took that business into his own hands. He was well educated, he
had been brought up in good society, and as he desired to return to that society it was natural
for him to wish to paint his own portrait as a buccaneer. Pictures of that kind as they were
ordinarily executed were not at all agreeable to the eyes of the cultivated classes of France,
and so M. de Lussan determined to give his personal attention not only to his business speculations,
but to his reputation. He went out as a buccaneer in order to rob the Spaniards of treasure
with which to pay his honest debts, and, in order to prevent his piratical career being described
in the coarse and disagreeable fashion in which people generally wrote about pirates, he determined
to write his own adventures.

If a man wishes to appear well before the world, it is often a very good thing for him to write
his autobiography, especially if there is anything a little shady in his career, and it may
be that de Lussan's reputation as a high-minded pirate depends somewhat on the book he wrote
after he had put down the sword and taken up the pen; but if he gave a more pleasing color
to his proceedings than they really deserved, we ought to be glad of it. For, even if de Lussan
the buccaneer was in some degree a creature of the imagination of de Lussan the author, we
have a story which is much more pleasing and, in some respects, more romantic than stories
of ordinary pirates could possibly be made unless the writer of such stories abandoned fact
altogether and plunged blindly into fiction.

Among the good qualities of de Lussan was a pious disposition. He had always been a religious
person, and, being a Catholic, he had a high regard and veneration for religious buildings,
for priests, and for the services of the church, and when he had crossed the Atlantic in his
ship, the crew of which was composed of desperadoes of various nations, and when he had landed
upon the western continent, he wished still to conform to the religious manners and customs
of the old world.

Having a strong force under his command and possessing, in common with most of the gentlemen
of that period, a good military education, it was not long after he landed on the mainland
before he captured a small town. The resistance which he met was soon overcome, and our high-minded
pirate found himself in the position of a conqueror with a community at his mercy. As his piety
now raised itself above all his other attributes, the first thing that he did was to repair
to the principal church of the town, accompanied by all his men, and here, in accordance with
his commands, a Te Deum was sung and services were conducted by the priests in charge. Then,
after having properly performed his religious duties, de Lussan sent his men through the town
with orders to rob the inhabitants of everything valuable they possessed.

The ransacking and pillaging of the houses continued for some time, but when the last of his
men had returned with the booty they had collected, the high-minded chief was dissatisfied.
The town appeared to be a good deal poorer than he had expected, and as the collection seemed
to be so very small, de Lussan concluded that in some way or other he must pass around the
hat again. While he was wondering how he should do this he happened to hear that on a sugar
plantation not very far away from the town there were some ladies of rank who, having heard
of the approach of the pirates, had taken refuge there, thinking that even if the town should
be captured, their savage enemies would not wander into the country to look for spoils and victims.

But these ladies were greatly mistaken. When de Lussan heard where they were, he sent out a
body of men to make them prisoners and bring them back to him. They might not have any money
or jewels in their possession, but as they belonged to good families who were probably wealthy,
a good deal of money could be made out of them by holding them and demanding a heavy ransom
for their release. So the ladies were all brought to town and shut up securely until their
friends and relatives managed to raise enough money to pay their ransom and set them free,
and then, I have no doubt, de Lussan advised them to go to church and offer up thanks for their
happy deliverance.

As our high-minded pirate pursued his plundering way along the coast of South America, he met
with a good many things which jarred upon his sensitive nature--things he had not expected
when he started out on his new career. One of his disappointments was occasioned by the manners
and customs of the English buccaneers under his command. These were very different from the
Frenchmen of his company, for they made not the slightest pretence to piety.

When they had captured a town or a village, the Englishmen would go to the churches, tear down
the paintings, chop the ornaments from the altars with their cutlasses, and steal the silver
crucifixes, the candlesticks, and even the communion services. Such conduct gave great pain
to de Lussan. To rob and destroy the property of churches was in his eyes a great sin, and
he never suffered anything of the kind if he could prevent it. When he found in any place which
he captured a wealthy religious community or a richly furnished church, he scrupulously refrained
from taking anything or of doing damage to property, and contented himself with demanding heavy
indemnity, which the priests were obliged to pay as a return for the pious exemption which
he granted them.

But it was very difficult to control the Englishmen. They would rob and destroy a church as
willingly as if it were the home of a peaceful family, and although their conscientious commander
did everything he could to prevent their excesses, he did not always succeed. If he had known
what was likely to happen, his party would have consisted entirely of Frenchmen.

Another thing which disappointed and annoyed the gentlemanly de Lussan was the estimation in
which the buccaneers were held by the ladies of the country through which he was passing. He
soon found that the women in the Spanish settlements had the most horrible ideas regarding
the members of the famous "Brotherhood of the Coast." To be sure, all the Spanish settlers,
and a great part of the natives of the country, were filled with horror and dismay whenever
they heard that a company of buccaneers was within a hundred miles of their homes, and it is
not surprising that this was the case, for the stories of the atrocities and cruelties of these
desperadoes had spread over the western world.

But the women of the settlements looked upon the buccaneers with greater fear and abhorrence
than the men could possibly feel, for the belief was almost universal among them that buccaneers
were terrible monsters of cannibal habits who delighted in devouring human beings, especially
if they happened to be young and tender. This ignorance of the true character of the invaders
of the country was greatly deplored by de Lussan. He had a most profound pity for those simple-minded
persons who had allowed themselves to be so deceived in regard to the real character of himself
and his men, and whenever he had an opportunity, he endeavored to persuade the ladies who fell
in his way that sooner than eat a woman he would entirely abstain from food.

On one occasion, when politely conducting a young lady to a place of confinement, where in
company with other women of good family she was to be shut up until their relatives could pay
handsome ransoms for their release, he was very much surprised when she suddenly turned to
him with tears in her eyes, and besought him not to devour her. This astonishing speech so
wounded the feelings of the gallant Frenchman that for a moment he could not reply, and when
he asked her what had put such an unreasonable fear in her mind, she could only answer that
she thought he looked hungry, and that perhaps he would not be willing to wait until--And there
she stopped, for she could not bring her mind to say--until she was properly prepared for the
table.

"What!" exclaimed the high-minded pirate. "Do you suppose that I would eat you in the street?"
And as the poor girl, who was now crying, would make him no answer, he fell into a sombre silence
which continued until they had reached their destination.

The cruel aspersions which were cast upon his character by the women of the country were very
galling to the chivalrous soul of this gentleman of France, and in every way possible he endeavored
to show the Spanish ladies that their opinions of him were entirely incorrect, and even if
his men were rather a hard lot of fellows, they were not cannibals.

The high-minded pirate had now two principal objects before him. One was to lay his hand upon
all the treasure he could find, and the other was to show the people of the country, especially
the ladies, that he was a gentleman of agreeable manners and a pious turn of mind.

It is highly probable that for some time the hero of this story did not succeed in his first
object as well as he would have liked. A great deal of treasure was secured, but some of it
consisted of property which could not be easily turned into cash or carried away, and he had
with him a body of rapacious and conscienceless scoundrels who were continually clamoring for
as large a share of the available spoils--such as jewels, money, and small articles of value--as
they could induce their commander to allow them, and, in consequence of this greediness of
his own men, his share of the plunder was not always as large as it ought to be.

But in his other object he was very much more successful, and, in proof of this, we have only
to relate an interesting and remarkable adventure which befell him. He laid siege to a large
town, and, as the place was well defended by fortifications and armed men, a severe battle
took place before it was captured. But at last the town was taken, and de Lussan and his men
having gone to church to give thanks for their victory,--his Englishmen being obliged to attend
the services no matter what they did afterward,--he went diligently to work to gather from
the citizens their valuable and available possessions. In this way he was brought into personal
contact with a great many of the people of the town, and among the acquaintances which he made
was that of a young Spanish lady of great beauty.

The conditions and circumstances in the midst of which this lady found herself after the city
had been taken, were very peculiar. She had been the wife of one of the principal citizens,
the treasurer of the town, who was possessed of a large fortune, and who lived in one of the
best houses in the place; but during the battle with the buccaneers, her husband, who fought
bravely in defence of the place, was killed, and she now found herself not only a widow, but
a prisoner in the hands of those ruthless pirates whose very name had struck terror into the
hearts of the Spanish settlers. Plunged into misery and despair, it was impossible for her
to foresee what was going to happen to her.

As has been said, the religious services in the church were immediately followed by the pillage
of the town; every house was visited, and the trembling inhabitants were obliged to deliver
up their treasures to the savage fellows who tramped through their halls and rooms, swearing
savagely when they did not find as much as they expected, and laughing with wild glee at any
unusual discovery of jewels or coin.

The buccaneer officers as well as the men assisted in gathering in the spoils of the town,
and it so happened that M. Raveneau de Lussan, with his good clothes and his jaunty hat with
a feather in it, selected the house of the late treasurer of the city as a suitable place for
him to make his investigations. He found there a great many valuable articles and also found
the beautiful young widow.

The effect produced upon the mind of the lady when the captain of the buccaneers entered her
house was a very surprising one. Instead of beholding a savage, brutal ruffian, with ragged
clothes and gleaming teeth, she saw a handsome gentleman, as well dressed as circumstances
would permit, very polite in his manners, and with as great a desire to transact his business
without giving her any more inconvenience than was necessary, as if he had been a tax-collector
or had come to examine the gas meter. If all the buccaneers were such agreeable men as this
one, she and her friends had been laboring under a great mistake.

De Lussan did not complete his examination of the treasurer's house in one visit, and during
the next two or three days the young widow not only became acquainted with the character of
buccaneers in general, but she learned to know this particular buccaneer very well, and to
find out what an entirely different man he was from the savage fellows who composed his company.
She was grateful to him for his kind manner of appropriating her possessions, she was greatly
interested in his society,--for he was a man of culture and information,--and in less than
three days she found herself very much in love with him. There was not a man in the whole town
who, in her opinion, could compare with this gallant commander of buccaneers.

It was not very long before de Lussan became conscious of the favor he had found in the eyes
of this lady; for as a buccaneer could not be expected to remain very long in one place, it
was necessary, if this lady wished the captor of her money and treasure to know that he had
also captured her heart, that she must not be slow in letting him know the state of her affections,
and being a young person of a very practical mind she promptly informed de Lussan that she
loved him and desired him to marry her.

The gallant Frenchman was very much amazed when this proposition was made to him, which was
in the highest degree complimentary. It was very attractive to him--but he could not understand
it. The lady's husband had been dead but a few days--he had assisted in having the unfortunate
gentleman properly buried--and it seemed to him very unnatural that the young widow should
be in such an extraordinary hurry to prepare a marriage feast before the funeral baked meats
had been cleared from the table.

There was but one way in which he could explain to himself this remarkable transition from
grief to a new affection. He believed that the people of this country were like their fruits
and their flowers. The oranges might fall from the trees, but the blossoms would still be there.
Husband and wives or lovers might die, but in the tropical hearts of these people it was not
necessary that new affections should be formed, for they were already there, and needed only
some one to receive them.

As he did not undertake his present expedition for the purpose of marrying ladies, no matter
how beautiful they might be, it is quite natural that de Lussan should not accept the proffered
hand of the young widow. But when she came to detail her plans, he found that it would be well
worth his while to carefully consider her project.

The lady was by no means a thoughtless young creature, carried away by a sudden attachment.
Before making known to de Lussan her preference for him above all other men, she had given
the subject her most careful and earnest consideration, and had made plans which in her opinion
would enable the buccaneer captain and herself to settle the matter to the satisfaction of
all parties.

When de Lussan heard the lady's scheme, he was as much surprised by her businesslike ability
as he had been by the declaration of her affection for him. She knew very well that he could
not marry her and take her with him. Moreover, she did not wish to go. She had no fancy for
such wild expeditions and such savage companions. Her plans were for peace and comfort and
a happy domestic life. In a word, she desired that the handsome de Lussan should remain with her.

Of course the gentleman opened his eyes very wide when he heard this, but she had a great deal
to say upon the subject, and she had not omitted any of the details which would be necessary
for the success of her scheme.

The lady knew just as well as the buccaneer captain knew that the men under his command would
not allow him to remain comfortably in that town with his share of the plunder, while they
went on without a leader to undergo all sorts of hardships and dangers, perhaps defeat and
death. If he announced his intention of withdrawing from the band, his enraged companions would
probably kill him. Consequently a friendly separation between himself and his buccaneer followers
was a thing not to be thought of, and she did not even propose it.

Her idea was a very different one. Just as soon as possible, that very night, de Lussan was
to slip quietly out of the town, and make his way into the surrounding country. She would furnish
him with a horse, and tell him the way he should take, and he was not to stop until he had
reached a secluded spot, where she was quite sure the buccaneers would not be able to find
him, no matter how diligently they might search. When they had entirely failed in every effort
to discover their lost captain, who they would probably suppose had been killed by wandering
Indians,--for it was impossible that he could have been murdered in the town without their
knowledge,--they would give him up as lost and press on in search of further adventures.

When the buccaneers were far away, and all danger from their return had entirely passed, then
the brave and polite Frenchman, now no longer a buccaneer, could safely return to the town,
where the young widow would be most happy to marry him, to lodge him in her handsome house,
and to make over to him all the large fortune and estates which had been the property of her
late husband.

This was a very attractive offer surely, a beautiful woman, and a handsome fortune. But she
offered more than this. She knew that a gentleman who had once captured and despoiled the town
might feel a little delicacy in regard to marrying and settling there and becoming one of its
citizens, and therefore she was prepared to remove any objections which might be occasioned
by such considerate sentiments on his part.

She assured him that if he would agree to her plan, she would use her influence with the authorities,
and would obtain for him the position of city treasurer, which her husband had formerly held.
And when he declared that such an astounding performance must be utterly impossible, she started
out immediately, and having interviewed the Governor of the town and other municipal officers,
secured their signature to a paper in which they promised that if M. de Lussan would accept
the proposals which the lady had made, he would be received most kindly by the officers and
citizens of the town; that the position of treasurer would be given to him, and that all the
promises of the lady should be made good.

Now our high-minded pirate was thrown into a great quandary, and although at first he had had
no notion whatever of accepting the pleasant proposition which had been made to him by the
young widow, he began to see that there were many good reasons why the affection, the high
position, and the unusual advantages which she had offered to him might perhaps be the very
best fortune which he could expect in this world. In the first place, if he should marry this
charming young creature and settle down as a respected citizen and an officer of the town,
he would be entirely freed from the necessity of leading the life of a buccaneer, and this
life was becoming more and more repugnant to him every day,--not only on account of the highly
disagreeable nature of his associates and their reckless deeds, but because the country was
becoming aroused, and the resistance to his advances was growing stronger and stronger. In
the next attack he made upon a town or village he might receive a musket ball in his body,
which would end his career and leave his debts in France unpaid.

More than that, he was disappointed, as has been said before, in regard to the financial successes
he had expected. At that time he saw no immediate prospect of being able to go home with money
enough in his pocket to pay off his creditors, and if he did not return to his native land
under those conditions, he did not wish to return there at all. Under these circumstances it
seemed to be wise and prudent, that if he had no reason to expect to be able to settle down
honorably and peaceably in France, to accept this opportunity to settle honorably, peaceably,
and in every way satisfactorily in America.

It is easy to imagine the pitching and the tossing in the mind of our French buccaneer. The
more he thought of the attractions of the fair widow and of the wealth and position which had
been offered him, the more he hated all thoughts of his piratical crew, and of the dastardly
and cruel character of the work in which they were engaged. If he could have trusted the officers
and citizens of the town, there is not much doubt that he would have married the widow, but
those officers and citizens were Spaniards, and he was a Frenchman. A week before the inhabitants
of the place had been prosperous, contented, and happy. Now they had been robbed, insulted,
and in many cases ruined, and he was commander of the body of desperadoes who had robbed and
ruined them. Was it likely that they would forget the injuries which he had inflicted upon
them simply because he had married a wealthy lady of the town and had kindly consented to accept
the office of city treasurer?

It was much more probable that when his men had really left that part of the country the citizens
would forget all their promises to him and remember only his conduct toward them, and that
even if he remained alive long enough to marry the lady and take the position offered him,
it would not be long before she was again a widow and the office vacant.

So de Lussan shut his eyes to the tempting prospects which were spread out before him, and
preferring rather to be a live buccaneer than a dead city treasurer, he told the beautiful
widow that he could not marry her and that he must go forth again into the hard, unsympathetic
world to fight, to burn, to steal, and to be polite. Then, fearing that if he remained he might
find his resolution weakened, he gathered together his men and his pillage, and sadly went
away, leaving behind him a joyful town and a weeping widow.

If the affection of the young Spanish lady for the buccaneer chief was sufficient to make her
take an interest in his subsequent career, she would probably have been proud of him, for the
ladies of those days had a high opinion of brave men and successful warriors. De Lussan soon
proved that he was not only a good fighter, but that he was also an able general, and his operations
on the western coast of South America were more like military campaigns than ordinary expeditions
of lawless buccaneers.

He attacked and captured the city of Panama, always an attractive prize to the buccaneer forces,
and after that he marched down the western coast of South America, conquering and sacking many
towns. As he now carried on his business in a somewhat wholesale way, it could not fail to
bring him in a handsome profit, and in the course of time he felt that he was able to retire
from the active practice of his profession and to return to France.

But as he was going back into the circles of respectability, he wished to do so as a respectable
man. He discarded his hat and plume, he threw away his great cutlass and his heavy pistols,
and attired in the costume of a gentleman in society he prepared himself to enter again upon
his old life. He made the acquaintance of some of the French colonial officers in the West
Indies, and obtaining from them letters of introduction to the Treasurer-General of France,
he went home as a gentleman who had acquired a fortune by successful enterprises in the new world.

The pirate who not only possesses a sense of propriety and a sensitive mind, but is also gifted
with an ability to write a book in which he describes his own actions and adventures, is to
be credited with unusual advantages, and as Raveneau de Lussan possessed these advantages,
he has come down to posterity as a high-minded pirate.

Chapter XXI

Exit Buccaneer; Enter Pirate

The buccaneers of the West Indies and South America had grown to be a most formidable body
of reckless freebooters. From merely capturing Spanish ships, laden with the treasures taken
from the natives of the new world, they had grown strong enough to attack Spanish towns and
cities. But when they became soldiers and marched in little armies, the patience of the civilized
world began to weaken: Panama, for instance, was an important Spanish city; England was at
peace with Spain; therefore, when a military force composed mainly of Englishmen, and led by
a British subject, captured and sacked the said Spanish city, England was placed in an awkward
position; if she did not interfere with her buccaneers, she would have a quarrel to settle
with Spain.

Therefore it was that a new Governor was sent to Jamaica with strict orders to use every power
he possessed to put down the buccaneers and to break up their organization, and it was to this
end that he set a thief to catch thieves and empowered the ex-pirate, Morgan, to execute his
former comrades.

But methods of conciliation, as well as threats of punishment, were used to induce the buccaneers
to give up their illegal calling, and liberal offers were made to them to settle in Jamaica
and become law-abiding citizens. They were promised grants of land and assistance of various
kinds in order to induce them to take up the legitimate callings of planters and traders.

But these offers were not at all tempting to the Brethren of the Coast; from pirates rampant
to pirates couchant was too great a change, and some of them, who found it impossible to embark
on piratical cruises, on account of the increasing difficulties of fitting out vessels, returned
to their original avocations of cattle-butchering and beef-drying, and some, it is said, chose
rather to live among the wild Indians and share their independent lives, than to bind themselves
to any form of honest industry.

The French had also been very active in suppressing the operations of their buccaneers, and
now the Brethren of the Coast, considered as an organization for preying upon the commerce
and settlers of Spain, might be said to have ceased to exist. But it must not be supposed that
because buccaneering had died out, that piracy was dead. If we tear down a wasps' nest, we
destroy the abode of a fierce and pitiless community, but we scatter the wasps, and it is likely
that each one of them, in the unrestricted and irresponsible career to which he has been unwillingly
forced, will prove a much more angry and dangerous insect than he had ever been before.

This is what happened to these buccaneers who would not give up a piratical life; driven away
from Jamaica, from San Domingo, and even from Tortuga, they retained a resting-place only at
New Providence, an island in the Bahamas, and this they did not maintain very long. Then they
spread themselves all over the watery world. They were no longer buccaneers, they were no longer
brothers of any sort or kind, they no longer set out merely to pillage and fight the Spaniards,
but their attacks were made upon people of every nation. English ships and French ships, once
safe from them, were a welcome prey to these new pirates, unrestrained by any kind of loyalty,
even by any kind of enmity. They were more rapacious, they were more cruel, they were more
like fiends than they had ever been before. They were cowardly and they no longer proceeded
against towns which might be defended, nor ran up alongside of a man-of-war to boldly board
her in the very teeth of her guns. They confined themselves to attacks upon peaceable merchant
vessels, often robbing them and then scuttling them, delighted with the spectacle of a ship,
with all its crew, sinking hopelessly into the sea.

The scene of piratical operations in America was now very much changed. The successors of the
Brothers of the Coast, no longer united by any bonds of fellowship, but each pirate captain
acting independently in his own wicked way, was coming up from the West Indies to afflict the
seacoast of our country.

The old buccaneers knew all about our southern coast, for they were among the very first white
men who ever set foot on the shores of North and South Carolina before that region had been
settled by colonists, and when the only inhabitants were the wild Indians. These early buccaneers
often used its bays and harbors as convenient ports of refuge, where they could anchor, divide
spoils, take in fresh water, and stay as long as they pleased without fear of molestation.
It was natural enough that when the Spanish-hating buccaneer merged into the independent pirate,
who respected no flag, and preyed upon ships of every nation, he should feel very much at home
on the Carolina coasts.

As the country was settled, and Charles Town, now Charleston, grew to be a port of considerable
importance, the pirates felt as much at home in this region as when it was inhabited merely
by Indians. They frequently touched at little seaside settlements, and boldly sailed into the
harbor of Charles Town. But, unlike the unfortunate citizens of Porto Bello or Maracaibo, the
American colonists were not frightened when they saw a pirate ship anchored in their harbors,
for they knew its crew did not come as enemies, but as friendly traders.

The early English colonists were not as prosperous as they might have been if the mother country
had not been so anxious to make money out of them. They were not allowed to import goods from
any country but England, and if they had products or crops to export, they must be sold to
English merchants. For whatever they bought they had to pay the highest prices, and they could
not send into the markets of the world to get the best value for their own productions.

Therefore it was that a pirate ship was a very welcome visitor in Charles Town harbor. She
was generally loaded with goods, which, as they were stolen, her captain could afford to sell
very cheaply indeed, and as there was always plenty of Spanish gold on board, her crew was
not apt to haggle very much in regard to the price of the spirits, the groceries, or the provisions
which they bought from the merchants of the town. This friendly commerce between the pirates
and the Carolinians grew to be so extensive that at one time the larger part of the coin in
circulation in those colonies consisted of Spanish gold pieces, which had been brought in and
used by the pirates for the purchase of goods.

But a pirate is very seldom a person of discretion, who knows when to leave well enough alone,
and so, instead of contenting themselves with robbing and capturing the vessels belonging to
people whom their Charles Town friends and customers would look upon as foreigners, they boldly
sailed up and down the coast, seeking for floating booty wherever they might find it, and when
a pirate vessel commanded by an English captain and manned principally by an English crew,
fell in with a big merchantman flying the English flag, they bore down upon that vessel, just
as if it had been French, or Spanish, or Dutch, and if the crew were impertinent enough to
offer any resistance, they were cut down and thrown overboard.

At last the pirates became so swaggeringly bold and their captains so enterprising in their
illegal trading that the English government took vigorous measures, not only to break up piracy,
but to punish all colonists who should encourage the freebooters by commercial dealings with
them. At these laws the pirates laughed, and the colonists winced, and there were many people
in Charles Town who vowed that if the King wanted them to help him put down piracy, he must
show them some other way of getting imported goods at reasonable prices. So the pirates went
on capturing merchantmen whenever they had a chance, and the Carolinians continued to look
forward with interest to the bargain days which always followed the arrival of a pirate ship.
But this state of things did not last, and the time came when the people of Charles Town experienced
a change of mind. The planters were now growing large quantities of rice, and this crop became
so valuable that the prosperity of the colonies greatly increased. And now the pirates also
became very much interested in the rice crops, and when they had captured four or five vessels
sailing out of Charles Town heavily laden with rice, the people of that town suddenly became
aware of the true character of a pirate. He was now in their eyes an unmitigated scoundrel
who not only stole goods from all nations, which he brought to them and sold at low prices,
but he actually stole their goods, their precious rice which they were sending to England.

The indignant citizens of Charles Town took a bold stand, and such a bold one it was that when
part of a crew of pirates, who had been put ashore by their comrades on account of a quarrel,
made their way to the town, thinking they could tell a tale of shipwreck and rely upon the
friendship of their old customers, they were taken into custody, and seven out of the nine
were hanged.

The occasional repetition of such acts as this, and the exhibition of dangling pirates, hung
up like scarecrows at the entrance of the harbors, dampened the ardor of the freebooters a
good deal, and for some years they kept away from the harbor of Charles Town, which had once
been to them such a friendly port.

Chapter XXII

The Great Blackbeard comes upon the Stage

So long as the people of the Carolinas were prosperous and able to capture and execute pirates
who interfered with their trade the Atlantic sea-robbers kept away from their ports, but this
prosperity did not last. Indian wars broke out, and in the course of time the colonies became
very much weakened and impoverished, and then it was that the harbor of Charles Town began
to be again interesting to the pirates.

About this time one of the most famous of sea-robbers was harassing the Atlantic coast of North
America, and from New England to the West Indies, he was known as the great pirate Blackbeard.
This man, whose real name was Thatch, was a most terrible fellow in appearance as well as action.
He wore a long, heavy, black beard, which it was his fancy to separate into tails, each one
tied with a colored ribbon, and often tucked behind his ears. Some of the writers of that day
declared that the sight of this beard would create more terror in any port of the American
seaboard than would the sudden appearance of a fiery comet. Across his brawny breast he carried
a sort of a sling in which hung not less than three pairs of pistols in leathern holsters,
and these, in addition to his cutlass and a knife or two in his belt, made him a most formidable-looking
fellow.

Some of the fanciful recreations of Blackbeard show him to have been a person of consistent
purpose. Even in his hours of rest when he was not fighting or robbing, his savage soul demanded
some interesting excitement. Once he was seated at table with his mate and two or three sailors,
and when the meal was over he took up a pair of pistols, and cocking them put them under the
table. This peculiar action caused one of the sailors to remember very suddenly that he had
something to do on deck, and he immediately disappeared. But the others looked at their captain
in astonishment, wondering what he would do next. They soon found out; for crossing the pistols,
still under the table, he fired them. One ball hit the mate in the leg, but the other struck
no one. When asked what he meant by this strange action, he replied that if he did not shoot
one of his men now and then they would forget what sort of a person he was.

At another time he invented a game; he gathered his officers and crew together and told them
that they were going to play that they were living in the lower regions. Thereupon the whole
party followed him down into the hold. The hatches and all the other openings were closed,
and then Blackbeard began to illuminate the scene with fire and brimstone. The sulphur burned,
the fumes rose, a ghastly light spread over the countenances of the desperadoes, and very soon
some of them began to gasp and cough and implore the captain to let in some fresh air, but
Blackbeard was bound to have a good game, and he proceeded to burn more brimstone. He laughed
at the gasping fellows about him and declared that he would be just as willing to breathe the
fumes of sulphur as common air. When at last he threw open the hatches, some of the men were
almost dead, but their stalwart captain had not even sneezed.

In the early part of the eighteenth century Blackbeard made his headquarters in one of the
inlets on the North Carolina coast, and there he ruled as absolute king, for the settlers in
the vicinity seemed to be as anxious to oblige him as the captains of the merchantmen sailing
along the coast were anxious to keep out of his way. On one of his voyages Blackbeard went
down the coast as far as Honduras, where he took a good many prizes, and as some of the crews
of the captured vessels enlisted under him he sailed north with a stronger force than ever
before, having a large ship of forty guns, three smaller vessels, and four hundred men. With
this little fleet Blackbeard made for the coast of South Carolina, and anchored outside the
harbor of Charles Town. He well understood the present condition of the place and was not in
the least afraid that the citizens would hang him up on the shores of the bay.

Blackbeard began work without delay. Several well-laden ships--the Carolinians having no idea
that pirates were waiting for them--came sailing out to sea and were immediately captured.
One of these was a very important vessel, for it not only carried a valuable cargo, but a number
of passengers, many of them people of note, who were on their way to England. One of these
was a Mr. Wragg, who was a member of the Council of the Province. It might have been supposed
that when Blackbeard took possession of this ship, he would have been satisfied with the cargo
and the money which he found on board, and having no use for prominent citizens, would have
let them go their way; but he was a trader as well as a plunderer, and he therefore determined
that the best thing to do in this case was to put an assorted lot of highly respectable passengers
upon the market and see what he could get for them. He was not at the time in need of money
or provisions, but his men were very much in want of medicines, so he decided to trade off
his prisoners for pills, potions, plasters, and all sorts of apothecary's supplies.

He put three of his pirates in a boat, and with them one of the passengers, a Mr. Marks, who
was commissioned as Blackbeard's special agent, with orders to inform the Governor that if
he did not immediately send the medicines required, amounting in value to about three hundred
pounds, and if he did not allow the pirate crew of the boat to return in safety, every one
of the prisoners would be hanged from the yard-arm of his ship.

The boat rowed away to the distant town, and Blackbeard waited two days for its return, and
then he grew very angry, for he believed that his messengers had been taken into custody, and
he came very near hanging Mr. Wragg and all his companions. But before he began to satisfy
his vengeance, news came from the boat. It had been upset in the bay, and had had great trouble
in getting to Charles Town, but it had arrived there at last. Blackbeard now waited a day or
two longer; but as no news came from Mr. Marks, he vowed he would not be trifled with by the
impudent people of Charles Town, and swore that every man, woman, and child among the prisoners
should immediately prepare to be hanged.

Of course the unfortunate prisoners in the pirate ship were in a terrible state of mind during
the absence of Mr. Marks. They knew very well that they could expect no mercy from Blackbeard
if the errand should be unsuccessful, and they also knew that the Charles Town people would
not be likely to submit to such an outrageous demand upon them; so they trembled and quaked
by day and by night, and when at last they were told to get ready to be hanged, every particle
of courage left them, and they proposed to Blackbeard that if he would spare their lives, and
that if it should turn out that their fellow-citizens had decided to sacrifice them for the
sake of a few paltry drugs, they would take up the cause of the pirates; they would show Blackbeard
the best way to sail into the harbor, and they would join with him and his men in attacking
the city and punishing the inhabitants for their hard-hearted treatment of their unfortunate
fellow-citizens.

This proposition pleased Blackbeard immensely; it would have been like a new game to take Mr.
Wragg to the town and make him fight his fellow-members of the Council of the Province, and
so he rescinded his order for a general execution, and bade his prisoners prepare to join with
his pirates when he should give the word for an assault upon their city.

In the meantime there was a terrible stir in Charles Town. When the Governor and citizens received
the insolent and brutal message of Blackbeard they were filled with rage as well as consternation,
and if there had been any way of going out to sea to rescue their unhappy fellow-citizens,
every able-bodied man in the town would have enlisted in the expedition. But they had no vessels
of war, and they were not even in a position to arm any of the merchantmen in the harbor. It
seemed to the Governor and his council that there was nothing for them to do but to submit
to the demands of Blackbeard, for they very well knew that he was a scoundrel who would keep
his word, and also that whatever they did must be done quickly, for there were the three swaggering
pirates in the town, strutting about the streets as if they owned the place. If this continued
much longer, it would be impossible to keep the infuriated citizens from falling upon these
blustering rascals and bringing their impertinence to a summary end. If this should happen,
it would be a terrible thing, for not only would Mr. Wragg and his companions be put to death,
but the pirates would undoubtedly attack the town, which was in a very poor position for defence.

Consequently the drugs were collected with all possible haste, and Mr. Marks and the pirates
were sent with them to Blackbeard. We do not know whether or not that bedizened cutthroat was
satisfied with the way things turned out; for having had the idea of going to Charles Town
and obliging the prisoners to help him confiscate the drugs and chemicals, he may have preferred
this unusual proceeding to a more commonplace transaction; but as the medicine had arrived
he accepted it, and having secured all possible booty and money from the ships he had captured,
and had stripped his prisoners of the greater part of their clothing, he set them on shore
to walk to Charles Town as well as they could. They had a miserably difficult time, making
their way through the woods and marshes, for there were women and children among them who were
scarcely equal to the journey. One of the children was a little boy, the son of Mr. Wragg,
who afterward became a very prominent man in the colonies. He rose to such a high position,
not only among his countrymen, but in the opinion of the English government, that when he died,
about the beginning of the Revolution, a tablet to his memory was placed in Westminster Abbey,
which is, perhaps, the first instance of such an honor being paid to an American.

Having now provided himself with medicines enough to keep his wild crew in good physical condition,
no matter how much they might feast and frolic on the booty they had obtained from Charles
Town, Blackbeard sailed back to his North Carolina haunts and took a long vacation, during
which time he managed to put himself on very good terms with the Governor and officials of
the country. He had plenty of money and was willing to spend it, and so he was allowed to do
pretty much as he pleased, provided he kept his purse open and did not steal from his neighbors.

But Blackbeard became tired of playing the part of a make-believe respectable citizen, and
having spent the greater part of his money, he wanted to make some more. Consequently he fitted
out a small vessel, and declaring that he was going on a legitimate commercial cruise, he took
out regular papers for a port in the West Indies and sailed away, as if he had been a mild-mannered
New England mariner going to catch codfish. The officials of the town of Bath, from which he
sailed, came down to the ship and shook hands with him and hoped he would have good success.

After a moderate absence he returned to Bath, bringing with him a large French merchant vessel,
with no people on board, but loaded with a valuable cargo of sugar and other goods. This vessel
he declared he had found deserted at sea, and he therefore claimed it as a legitimate prize.
Knowing the character of this bloody pirate, and knowing how very improbable it was that the
captain and all the crew of a valuable merchant vessel, with nothing whatever the matter with
her, would go out into their boats and row away, leaving their ship to become the property
of any one who might happen along, it may seem surprising that the officials of Bath appeared
to have no doubt of the truth of Blackbeard's story, and allowed him freely to land the cargo
on the French ship and store it away as his own property.

But people who consort with pirates cannot be expected to have very lively consciences, and
although there must have been persons in the town with intelligence enough to understand the
story of pitiless murder told by that empty vessel, whose very decks and masts must have been
regarded as silent witnesses that her captain and crew did not leave her of their own free
will, no one in the town interfered with the thrifty Blackbeard or caused any public suspicion
to fall upon the propriety of his actions.

Chapter XXIII

A True-Hearted Sailor draws his Sword

Feeling now quite sure that he could do what he pleased on shore as well as at sea, Blackbeard
swore more, swaggered more, and whenever he felt like it, sailed up and down the coast and
took a prize or two to keep the pot boiling for himself and his men.

On one of these expeditions he went to Philadelphia, and having landed, he walked about to
see what sort of a place it was, but the Governor of the state, hearing of his arrival, quickly
arranged to let him know that the Quaker city allowed no black-hearted pirate, with a ribbon-bedecked
beard, to promenade on Chestnut and Market streets, and promptly issued a warrant for the sea-robber's
arrest. But Blackbeard was too sharp and too old a criminal to be caught in that way, and he
left the city with great despatch.

The people along the coast of North Carolina became very tired of Blackbeard and his men. All
sorts of depredations were committed on vessels, large and small, and whenever a ship was boarded
and robbed or whenever a fishing-vessel was laid under contribution, Blackbeard was known to
be at the bottom of the business, whether he personally appeared or not. To have this busy
pirate for a neighbor was extremely unpleasant, and the North Carolina settlers greatly longed
to get rid of him. It was of no use for them to ask their own State Government to suppress
this outrageous scoundrel, and although their good neighbor, South Carolina, might have been
willing to help them, she was too poor at that time and had enough to do to take care of herself.

Not knowing, or not caring for the strong feeling of the settlers against him, Blackbeard continued
in his wicked ways, and among other crimes he captured a small vessel and treated the crew
in such a cruel and atrocious manner that the better class of North Carolinians vowed they
would stand him no longer, and they therefore applied to Governor Spotswood, of Virginia, and
asked his aid in putting down the pirates. The Virginians were very willing to do what they
could for their unfortunate neighbors. The legislature offered a reward for the capture of
Blackbeard or any of his men; but the Governor, feeling that this was not enough, determined
to do something on his own responsibility, for he knew very well that the time might come when
the pirate vessels would begin to haunt Virginia waters.

There happened to be at that time two small British men-of-war in Hampton Roads, and although
the Governor had no authority to send these after the pirates, he fitted out two sloops at
his own expense and manned them with the best fighting men from the war-vessels. One of the
sloops he put under Captain Brand, and the other under Captain Maynard, both brave and experienced
naval officers. All preparations were made with the greatest secrecy--for if Blackbeard had
heard of what was going on, he would probably have decamped--and then the two sloops went out
to sea with a commission from the Governor to capture Blackbeard, dead or alive. This was a
pretty heavy contract, but Brand and Maynard were courageous men and did not hesitate to take it.

The Virginians had been informed that the pirate captain and his men were on a vessel in Ocracoke
Inlet, and when they arrived they found, to their delight, that Blackbeard was there. When
the pirates saw the two armed vessels sailing into the inlet, they knew very well that they
were about to be attacked, and it did not take them long to get ready for a fight, nor did
they wait to see what their enemy was about to do. As soon as the sloops were near enough,
Blackbeard, without waiting for any preliminary exercises, such as a demand for surrender or
any nonsense of that sort, let drive at the intruders with eight heavily loaded cannon.

Now the curtain had been rung up, and the play began, and a very lively play it was. The guns
of the Virginians blazed away at the pirate ship, and they would have sent out boats to board
her had not Blackbeard forestalled them. Boarding was always a favorite method of fighting
with the pirates. They did not often carry heavy cannon, and even when they did, they had but
little fancy for battles at long distances. What they liked was to meet foes face to face and
cut them down on their own decks. In such combats they felt at home, and were almost always
successful, for there were few mariners or sailors, even in the British navy, who could stand
against these brawny, glaring-eyed dare-devils, who sprang over the sides of a vessel like
panthers, and fought like bulldogs. Blackbeard had had enough cannonading, and he did not wait
to be boarded. Springing into a boat with about twenty of his men, he rowed to the vessel commanded
by Maynard, and in a few minutes he and his pirates surged on board her.

Now there followed on the decks of that sloop one of the most fearful hand-to-hand combats
known to naval history. Pirates had often attacked vessels where they met with strong resistance,
but never had a gang of sea-robbers fallen in with such bold and skilled antagonists as those
who now confronted Blackbeard and his crew. At it they went,--cut, fire, slash, bang, howl,
and shout. Steel clashed, pistols blazed, smoke went up, and blood ran down, and it was hard
in the confusion for a man to tell friend from foe. Blackbeard was everywhere, bounding from
side to side, as he swung his cutlass high and low, and though many a shot was fired at him,
and many a rush made in his direction, every now and then a sailor went down beneath his whirling
blade.

But the great pirate had not boarded that ship to fight with common men. He was looking for
Maynard, the commander. Soon he met him, and for the first time in his life he found his match.
Maynard was a practised swordsman, and no matter how hard and how swiftly came down the cutlass
of the pirate, his strokes were always evaded, and the sword of the Virginian played more dangerously
near him. At last Blackbeard, finding that he could not cut down his enemy, suddenly drew a
pistol, and was about to empty its barrels into the very face of his opponent, when Maynard
sent his sword-blade into the throat of the furious pirate; the great Blackbeard went down
upon his back on the deck, and in the next moment Maynard put an end to his nefarious career.
Their leader dead, the few pirates who were left alive gave up the fight, and sprang overboard,
hoping to be able to swim ashore, and the victory of the Virginians was complete.

The strength, toughness, and extraordinary vitality of these feline human beings, who were
known as pirates, has often occasioned astonishment in ordinary people. Their sun-tanned and
hairy bodies seemed to be made of something like wire, leather, and India rubber, upon which
the most tremendous exertions, and even the infliction of severe wounds, made but little impression.
Before Blackbeard fell, he received from Maynard and others no less than twenty-five wounds,
and yet he fought fearlessly to the last, and when the panting officer sheathed his sword,
he felt that he had performed a most signal deed of valor.

When they had broken up the pirate nest in Ocracoke Inlet, the two sloops sailed to Bath, where
they compelled some of the unscrupulous town officials to surrender the cargo which had been
stolen from the French vessel and stored in the town by Blackbeard; then they sailed proudly
back to Hampton Roads, with the head of the dreaded Blackbeard dangling from the end of the
bowsprit of the vessel he had boarded, and on whose deck he had discovered the fact, before
unknown to him, that a well-trained, honest man can fight as well as the most reckless cutthroat
who ever decked his beard with ribbons, and swore enmity to all things good.

Chapter XXIV

A Greenhorn under the Black Flag

Early in the eighteenth century there lived at Bridgetown, in the island of Barbadoes, a very
pleasant, middle-aged gentleman named Major Stede Bonnet. He was a man in comfortable circumstances,
and had been an officer in the British army. He had retired from military service, and had
bought an estate at Bridgetown, where he lived in comfort and was respected by his neighbors.

But for some reason or other this quiet and reputable gentleman got it into his head that he
would like to be a pirate. There were some persons who said that this strange fancy was due
to the fact that his wife did not make his home pleasant for him, but it is quite certain that
if a man wants an excuse for robbing and murdering his fellow-beings he ought to have a much
better one than the bad temper of his wife. But besides the general reasons why Major Bonnet
should not become a pirate, and which applied to all men as well as himself, there was a special
reason against his adoption of the profession of a sea-robber, for he was an out-and-out landsman
and knew nothing whatever of nautical matters. He had been at sea but very little, and if he
had heard a boatswain order his man to furl the keel, to batten down the shrouds, or to hoist
the forechains to the topmast yard, he would have seen nothing out of the way in these commands.
He was very fond of history, and very well read in the literature of the day. He was accustomed
to the habits of good society, and knew a great deal about farming and horses, cows and poultry,
but if he had been compelled to steer a vessel, he would not have known how to keep her bow
ahead of her stern.

But notwithstanding this absolute incapacity for such a life, and the absence of any of the
ordinary motives for abandoning respectability and entering upon a career of crime, Major Bonnet
was determined to become a pirate, and he became one. He had money enough to buy a ship and
to fit her out and man her, and this he quietly did at Bridgetown, nobody supposing that he
was going to do anything more than start off on some commercial cruise. When everything was
ready, his vessel slipped out of the harbor one night, and after he was sailing safely on the
rolling sea he stood upon the quarter-deck and proclaimed himself a pirate. It might not be
supposed that this was necessary, for the seventy men on board his ship were all desperate
cutthroats, of various nationalities, whom he had found in the little port, and who knew very
well what was expected of them when they reached the sea. But if Stede Bonnet had not proclaimed
himself a pirate, it is possible that he might not have believed, himself, that he was one,
and so he ran up the black flag, with its skeleton or skull and cross-bones, he girded on a
great cutlass, and, folding his arms, he ordered his mate to steer the vessel to the coast
of Virginia.

Although Bonnet knew so little about ships and the sea, and had had no experience in piracy,
his men were practised seamen, and those of them who had not been pirates before were quite
ready and very well fitted to become such; so when this green hand came into the waters of
Virginia he actually took two or three vessels and robbed them of their cargoes, burning the
ships, and sending the crews on shore.

This had grown to be a common custom among the pirates, who, though cruel and hard-hearted,
had not the inducements of the old buccaneers to torture and murder the crews of the vessels
which they captured. They could not hate human beings in general as the buccaneers hated the
Spaniards, and so they were a little more humane to their prisoners, setting them ashore on
some island or desert coast, and letting them shift for themselves as best they might. This
was called marooning, and was somewhat less heartless than the old methods of getting rid of
undesirable prisoners by drowning or beheading them.

As Bonnet had always been rather conventional in his ideas and had respected the customs of
the society in which he found himself, he now adopted all the piratical fashions of the day,
and when he found himself too far from land to put the captured crew on shore, he did not hesitate
to make them "walk the plank," which was a favorite device of the pirates whenever they had
no other way of disposing of their prisoners. The unfortunate wretches, with their hands tied
behind them, were compelled, one by one, to mount a plank which was projected over the side
of the vessel and balanced like a see-saw, and when, prodded by knives and cutlasses, they
stepped out upon this plank, of course it tipped up, and down they went into the sea. In this
way, men, women, and children slipped out of sight among the waves as the vessel sailed merrily on.

In one branch of his new profession Bonnet rapidly became proficient. He was an insatiable
robber and a cruel conqueror. He captured merchant vessels all along the coast as high up as
New England, and then he came down again and stopped for a while before Charles Town harbor,
where he took a couple of prizes, and then put into one of the North Carolina harbors, where
it was always easy for a pirate vessel to refit and get ready for further adventures.

Bonnet's vessel was named the Revenge, which was about as ill suited to the vessel as her commander
was ill fitted to sail her, for Bonnet had nobody to revenge himself upon unless, indeed, it
were his scolding wife. But a good many pirate ships were then called the Revenge, and Bonnet
was bound to follow the fashion, whatever it might be.

Very soon after he had stood upon the quarter-deck and proclaimed himself a pirate his men
had discovered that he knew no more about sailing than he knew about painting portraits, and
although there were under-officers who directed all the nautical operations, the mass of the
crew conceived a great contempt for a landsman captain. There was much grumbling and growling,
and many of the men would have been glad to throw Bonnet overboard and take the ship into their
own hands. But when any symptoms of mutiny showed themselves, the pirates found that although
they did not have a sailor in command over them, they had a very determined and relentless
master. Bonnet knew that the captain of a pirate ship ought to be the most severe and rigid
man on board, and so, at the slightest sign of insubordination, his grumbling men were put
in chains or flogged, and it was Bonnet's habit at such times to strut about the deck with
loaded pistols, threatening to blow out the brains of any man who dared to disobey him. Recognizing
that although their captain was no sailor he was a first-class tyrant, the rebellious crew
kept their grumbling to themselves and worked his ship.

Bonnet now pointed the bow of the Revenge southward--that is, he requested somebody else to
see that it was done--and sailed to the Bay of Honduras, which was a favorite resort of the
pirates about that time. And here it was that he first met with the famous Captain Blackbeard.
There can be no doubt that our amateur pirate was very glad indeed to become acquainted with
this well-known professional, and they soon became good friends. Blackbeard was on the point
of organizing an expedition, and he proposed that Bonnet and his vessel should join it. This
invitation was gladly accepted, and the two pirate captains started out on a cruise together.
Now the old reprobate, Blackbeard, knew everything about ships and was a good navigator, and
it was not long before he discovered that his new partner was as green as grass in regard to
all nautical affairs. Consequently, after having thought the matter over for a time, he made
up his mind that Bonnet was not at all fit to command such a fine vessel as the one he owned
and had fitted out, and as pirates make their own laws, and perhaps do not obey them if they
happen not to feel like it, Blackbeard sent for Bonnet to come on board his ship, and then,
in a manner as cold-blooded as if he had been about to cut down a helpless prisoner, Blackbeard
told Bonnet that he was not fit to be a pirate captain, that he intended to keep him on board
his own vessel, and that he would send somebody to take charge of the Revenge.

This was a fall indeed, and Bonnet was almost stunned by it. An hour before he had been proudly
strutting about on the deck of a vessel which belonged to him, and in which he had captured
many valuable prizes, and now he was told he was to stay on Blackbeard's ship and make himself
useful in keeping the log book, or in doing any other easy thing which he might happen to understand.
The green pirate ground his teeth and swore bitterly inside of himself, but he said nothing
openly; on Blackbeard's ship Blackbeard's decisions were not to be questioned.

Chapter XXV

Bonnet again to the Front

It must not be supposed that the late commander of the Revenge continued to be satisfied, as
he sat in the cabin of Blackbeard's vessel and made the entries of the day's sailing and various
performances. He obeyed the orders of his usurping partner because he was obliged to do so,
but he did not hate Blackbeard any the less because he had to keep quiet about it. He accompanied
his pirate chief on various cruises, among which was the famous expedition to the harbor of
Charles Town where Blackbeard traded Mr. Wragg and his companions for medicines.

Having a very fine fleet under him, Blackbeard did a very successful business for some time,
but feeling that he had earned enough for the present, and that it was time for him to take
one of his vacations, he put into an inlet in North Carolina, where he disbanded his crew.
So long as he was on shore spending his money and having a good time, he did not want to have
a lot of men about him who would look to him to support them when they had spent their portion
of the spoils. Having no further use for Bonnet, he dismissed him also, and did not object
to his resuming possession of his own vessel. If the green pirate chose to go to sea again
and perhaps drown himself and his crew, it was a matter of no concern to Blackbeard.

But this was a matter of very great concern to Stede Bonnet, and he proceeded to prove that
there were certain branches of the piratical business in which he was an adept, and second
to none of his fellow-practitioners. He wished to go pirating again, and saw a way of doing
this which he thought would be far superior to any of the common methods. It was about this
time that King George of England, very desirous of breaking up piracy, issued a proclamation
in which he promised pardon to any pirate who would appear before the proper authorities, renounce
his evil practices, and take an oath of allegiance. It also happened that very soon after this
proclamation had been issued, England went to war with Spain. Being a man who kept himself
posted in the news of the world, so far as it was possible, Bonnet saw in the present state
of affairs a very good chance for him to play the part of a wolf in sheep's clothing, and he
proceeded to begin his new piratical career by renouncing piracy. So leaving the Revenge in
the inlet, he journeyed overland to Bath; there he signed pledges, took oaths, and did everything
that was necessary to change himself from a pirate captain to a respectable commander of a
duly authorized British privateer. Returning to his vessel with all the papers in his pocket
necessary to prove that he was a loyal and law-abiding subject of Great Britain, he took out
regular clearance papers for St. Thomas, which was a British naval station, and where he declared
he was going in order to obtain a commission as a privateer.

Now the wily Bonnet had everything he wanted except a crew. Of course it would not do for him,
in his present respectable capacity, to go about enlisting unemployed pirates, but at this
point fortune again favored him; he knew of a desert island not very far away where Blackbeard,
at the end of his last cruise, had marooned a large party of his men. This heartless pirate
had not wanted to take all of his followers into port, because they might prove troublesome
and expensive to him, and so he had put a number of them on this island, to live or die as
the case might be. Bonnet went over to this island, and finding the greater part of these men
still surviving, he offered to take them to St. Thomas in his vessel if they would agree to
work the ship to port. This proposition was of course joyfully accepted, and very soon the
Revenge was manned with a complete crew of competent desperadoes.

All these operations took a good deal of time, and, at last, when everything was ready for
Bonnet to start out on his piratical cruise, he received information which caused him to change
his mind, and to set forth on an errand of a very different kind. He had supposed that Blackbeard,
whom he had never forgiven for the shameful and treacherous manner in which he had treated
him, was still on shore enjoying himself, but he was told by the captain of a small trading
vessel that the old pirate was preparing for another cruise, and that he was then in Ocracoke
Inlet. Now Bonnet folded his arms and stamped his feet upon the quarter-deck. The time had
come for him to show that the name of his vessel meant something. Never before had he had an
opportunity for revenging himself on anybody, but now that hour had arrived. He would revenge
himself upon Blackbeard!

The implacable Bonnet sailed out to sea in a truly warlike frame of mind. He was not going
forth to prey upon unresisting merchantmen; he was on his way to punish a black-hearted pirate,
a faithless scoundrel, who had not only acted knavishly toward the world in general, but had
behaved most disloyally and disrespectfully toward a fellow pirate chief. If he could once
run the Revenge alongside the ship of the perfidious Blackbeard, he would show him what a green
hand could do.

When Bonnet reached Ocracoke Inlet, he was deeply disappointed to find that Blackbeard had
left that harbor, but he did not give up the pursuit. He made hot chase after the vessel of
his pirate enemy, keeping a sharp lookout in hopes of discovering some signs of him. If the
enraged Bonnet could have met the ferocious Blackbeard face to face, there might have been
a combat which would have relieved the world of two atrocious villains, and Captain Maynard
would have been deprived of the honor of having slain the most famous pirate of the day.

Bonnet was a good soldier and a brave man, and although he could not sail a ship, he understood
the use of the sword even better, perhaps, than Blackbeard, and there is good reason to believe
that if the two ships had come together, their respective crews would have allowed their captains
to fight out their private quarrel without interference, for pirates delight in a bloody spectacle,
and this would have been to them a rare diversion of the kind.

But Bonnet never overtook Blackbeard, and the great combat between the rival pirates did not
take place. After vainly searching for a considerable time for a trace or sight of Blackbeard,
the baffled Bonnet gave up the pursuit and turned his mind to other objects. The first thing
he did was to change the name of his vessel; if he could not be revenged, he would not sail
in the Revenge. Casting about in his mind for a good name, he decided to call her the Royal
James. Having no intention of respecting his oaths or of keeping his promises, he thought that,
as he was going to be disloyal, he might as well be as disloyal as he could, and so he gave
his ship the name assumed by the son of James the Second, who was a pretender to the throne,
and was then in France plotting against the English government.

The next thing he did was to change his own name, for he thought this would make matters better
for him if he should be captured after entering upon his new criminal career. So he called
himself Captain Thomas, by which name he was afterwards known.

When these preliminaries had been arranged, he gathered his crew together and announced that
instead of going to St. Thomas to get a commission as a privateer, he had determined to keep
on in his old manner of life, and that he wished them to understand that not only was he a
pirate captain, but that they were a pirate crew. Many of the men were very much surprised
at this announcement, for they had thought it a very natural thing for the green-hand Bonnet
to give up pirating after he had been so thoroughly snubbed by Blackbeard, and they had not
supposed that he would ever think again of sailing under a black flag.

However, the crew's opinion of the green-hand captain had been a good deal changed. In his
various cruises he had learned a good deal about navigation, and could now give very fair orders,
and his furious pursuit of Blackbeard had also given him a reputation for reckless bravery
which he had not enjoyed before. A man who was chafing and fuming for a chance of a hand-to-hand
conflict with the greatest pirate of the day must be a pretty good sort of a fellow from their
point of view. Moreover, their strutting and stalking captain, so recently balked of his dark
revenge, was a very savage-looking man, and it would not be pleasant either to try to persuade
him to give up his piratical intention, or to decline to join him in carrying it out; so the
whole of the crew, minor officers and men, changed their minds about going to St. Thomas, and
agreed to hoist the skull and cross-bones, and to follow Captain Bonnet wherever he might lead.

Bonnet now cruised about in grand style and took some prizes on the Virginia coast, and then
went up into Delaware Bay, where he captured such ships as he wanted, and acted generally in
the most domineering and insolent fashion. Once, when he stopped near the town of Lewes, in
order to send some prisoners ashore, he sent a message to the officers of the town to the effect
that if they interfered with his men when they came ashore, he would open fire upon the town
with his cannon, and blow every house into splinters. Of course the citizens, having no way
of defending themselves, were obliged to allow the pirates to come on shore and depart unmolested.

Then after this the blustering captain captured two valuable sloops, and wishing to take them
along with him without the trouble of transferring their cargoes to his own vessel, he left
their crews on board, and ordered them to follow him wherever he went. Some days after that,
when one of the vessels seemed to be sailing at too great a distance, Bonnet quickly let her
captain know that he was not a man to be trifled with, and sent him the message that if he
did not keep close to the Royal James, he would fire into him and sink him to the bottom.

After a time Bonnet put into a North Carolina port in order to repair the Royal James, which
was becoming very leaky, and seeing no immediate legitimate way of getting planks and beams
enough with which to make the necessary repairs, he captured a small sloop belonging in the
neighborhood, and broke it up in order to get the material he needed to make his own vessel
seaworthy.

Now the people of the North Carolina coast very seldom interfered with pirates, as we have
seen, and it is likely that Bonnet might have stayed in port as long as he pleased, and repaired
and refitted his vessel without molestation if he had bought and paid for the planks and timber
he required. But when it came to boldly seizing their property, that was too much even for
the people of the region, and complaints of Bonnet's behavior spread from settlement to settlement,
and it very soon became known all down the coast that there was a pirate in North Carolina
who was committing depredations there and was preparing to set out on a fresh cruise.

When these tidings came to Charles Town, the citizens were thrown into great agitation. It
had not been long since Blackbeard had visited their harbor, and had treated them with such
brutal insolence, and there were bold spirits in the town who declared that if any effort by
them could prevent another visitation of the pirates, that effort should be made. There was
no naval force in the harbor which could be sent out to meet the pirates, who were coming down
the coast; but Mr. William Rhett, a private gentleman of position in the place, went to the
Governor and offered to fit out, at his own expense, an expedition for the purpose of turning
away from their city the danger which threatened it.

Chapter XXVI

The Battle of the Sand Bars

When that estimable private gentleman, Mr. William Rhett, of Charles Town, had received a commission
from the Governor to go forth on his own responsibility and meet the dreaded pirate, the news
of whose depredations had thrown the good citizens into such a fever of apprehension, he took
possession, in the name of the law, of two large sloops, the Henry and the Sea-Nymph, which
were in the harbor, and at his own expense he manned them with well-armed crews, and put on
board of each of them eight small cannon. When everything was ready, Mr. Rhett was in command
of a very formidable force for those waters, and if he had been ready to sail a few days sooner,
he would have had an opportunity of giving his men some practice in fighting pirates before
they met the particular and more important sea-robber whom they had set out to encounter. Just
as his vessel was ready to sail, Mr. Rhett received news that a pirate ship had captured two
or three merchantmen just outside the harbor, and he put out to sea with all possible haste
and cruised up and down the coast for some time, but he did not find this most recent depredator,
who had departed very promptly when he heard that armed ships were coming out of the harbor.

Now Mr. Rhett, who was no more of a sailor than Stede Bonnet had been when he first began his
seafaring life, boldly made his way up the coast to the mouth of Cape Fear River, where he
had been told the pirate vessel was lying. When he reached his destination, Mr. Rhett found
that it would not be an easy thing to ascend the river, for the reason that the pilots he had
brought with him knew nothing about the waters of that part of the coast, and although the
two ships made their way very cautiously, it was not long after they had entered the river
before they got out of the channel, and it being low tide, both of them ran aground upon sand bars.

This was a very annoying accident, but it was not disastrous, for the sailing masters who commanded
the sloops knew very well that when the tide rose, their vessels would float again. But it
prevented Mr. Rhett from going on and making an immediate attack upon the pirate vessel, the
topmasts of which could be plainly seen behind a high headland some distance up the river.

Of course Bonnet, or Captain Thomas, as he now chose to be called, soon became aware of the
fact that two good-sized vessels were lying aground near the mouth of the river, and having
a very natural curiosity to see what sort of craft they were, he waited until nightfall and
then sent three armed boats to make observations. When these boats returned to the Royal James
and reported that the grounded vessels were not well-loaded trading craft, but large sloops
full of men and armed with cannon, Bonnet (for we prefer to call him by his old name) had good
reason to fold his arms, knit his brows, and strut up and down the deck. He was sure that the
armed vessels came from Charles Town, and there was no reason to doubt that if the Governor
of South Carolina had sent two ships against him the matter was a very serious one. He was
penned up in the river, he had only one fighting vessel to contend against two, and if he could
not succeed in getting out to sea before he should be attacked by the Charles Town ships, there
would be but little chance of his continuing in his present line of business. If the Royal
James had been ready to sail, there is no doubt that Bonnet would have taken his chance of
finding the channel in the dark, and would have sailed away that night without regard to the
cannonading which might have been directed against him from the two stranded vessels.

But as it was impossible to get ready to sail, Bonnet went to work with the greatest energy
to get ready to fight. He knew that when the tide rose there would be two armed sloops afloat,
and that there would be a regular naval battle on the quiet waters of Cape Fear River. All
night his men worked to clear the decks and get everything in order for the coming combat,
and all night Mr. Rhett and his crews kept a sharp watch for any unexpected move of the enemy,
while they loaded their guns, their pistols, and their cannon, and put everything in order
for action.

Very early in the morning the wide-awake crews of the South Carolina vessels, which were now
afloat and at anchor, saw that the topmasts of the pirate craft were beginning to move above
the distant headland, and very soon Bonnet's ship came out into view, under full sail, and
as she veered around they saw that she was coming toward them. Up went the anchors and up went
the sails of the Henry and the Sea-Nymph, and the naval battle between the retired army officer
who had almost learned to be a sailor, and the private gentleman from South Carolina, who knew
nothing whatever about managing ships, was about to begin.

It was plain to the South Carolinians that the great object of the pirate captain was to get
out to sea just as soon as he could, and that he was coming down the river, not because he
wished to make an immediate attack upon them, but because he hoped to slip by them and get
away. Of course they could follow him upon the ocean and fight him if their vessels were fast
enough, but once out of the river with plenty of sea-room, he would have twenty chances of
escape where now he had one.

But Mr. Rhett did not intend that the pirates should play him this little trick; he wanted
to fight the dastardly wretches in the river, where they could not get away, and he had no
idea of letting them sneak out to sea. Consequently as the Royal James, under full sail, was
making her way down the river, keeping as far as possible from her two enemies, Mr. Rhett ordered
his ships to bear down upon her so as to cut off her retreat and force her toward the opposite
shore of the river. This manoeuvre was performed with great success. The two Charles Town sloops
sailed so boldly and swiftly toward the Royal James that the latter was obliged to hug the
shore, and the first thing the pirates knew they were stuck fast and tight upon a sand bar.
Three minutes afterward the Henry ran upon a sand bar, and there being enough of these obstructions
in that river to satisfy any ordinary demand, the Sea-Nymph very soon grounded herself upon
another of them. But unfortunately she took up her permanent position at a considerable distance
from her consort.

Here now were the vessels which were to conduct this memorable sea-fight, all three fast in
the sand and unable to move, and their predicament was made the worse by the fact that it would
be five hours before the tide would rise high enough for any one of them to float. The positions
of the three vessels were very peculiar and awkward; the Henry and the Royal James were lying
so near to each other that Mr. Rhett could have shot Major Bonnet with a pistol if the latter
gentleman had given him the chance, and the Sea-Nymph was so far away that she was entirely
out of the fight, and her crew could do nothing but stand and watch what was going on between
the other two vessels.

But although they could not get any nearer each other, nor get away from each other, the pirates
and Mr. Rhett's crew had no idea of postponing the battle until they should be afloat and able
to fight in the ordinary fashion of ships; they immediately began to fire at each other with
pistols, muskets, and cannon, and the din and roar was something that must have astonished
the birds and beasts and fishes of that quiet region.

As the tide continued to run out of the river, and its waters became more and more shallow,
the two contending vessels began to careen over to one side, and, unfortunately for the Henry,
they both careened in the same direction, and in such a manner that the deck of the Royal James
was inclined away from the Henry, while the deck of the latter leaned toward her pirate foe.
This gave a great advantage to Bonnet and his crew, for they were in a great measure protected
by the hull of their vessel, whereas the whole deck of the Henry was exposed to the fire of
the pirates. But Mr. Rhett and his South Carolinians were all brave men, and they blazed away
with their muskets and pistols at the pirates whenever they could see a head above the rail
of the Royal James, while with their cannon they kept firing at the pirate's hull.

For five long hours the fight continued, but the cannon carried by the two vessels must have
been of very small calibre, for if they had been firing at such short range and for such a
length of time with modern guns, they must have shattered each other into kindling wood. But
neither vessel seems to have been seriously injured, and although there were a good many men
killed on both sides, the combat was kept up with great determination and fury. At one time
it seemed almost certain that Bonnet would get the better of Mr. Rhett, and he ordered his
black flag waved contemptuously in the air while his men shouted to the South Carolinians to
come over and call upon them, but the South Carolina boys answered these taunts with cheers
and fired away more furiously than ever.

The tide was now coming in, and everybody on board the two fighting vessels knew very well
that the first one of them which should float would have a great advantage over the other,
and would probably be the conqueror. In came the tide, and still the cannons roared and the
muskets cracked, while the hearts of the pirates and the South Carolinians almost stood still
as they each watched the other vessel to see if she showed any signs of floating.

At last such signs were seen; the Henry was further from the shore than the Royal James, and
she first felt the influence of the rising waters. Her masts began to straighten, and at last
her deck was level, and she floated clear of the bottom while her antagonist still lay careened
over on her side. Now the pirates saw there was no chance for them; in a very short time the
other Carolina sloop would be afloat, and then the two vessels would bear down upon them and
utterly destroy both them and their vessel. Consequently upon the Royal James there was a general
disposition to surrender and to make the best terms they could, for it would be a great deal
better to submit and run the chance of a trial than to keep up the fight against enemies so
much superior both in numbers and ships, who would soon be upon them.

But Bonnet would not listen to one word of surrender. Rather than give up the fight he declared
he would set fire to the powder magazine of the Royal James and blow himself, his ship, and
his men high up into the air. Although he had not a sailor's skill, he possessed a soldier's
soul, and in spite of his being a dastardly and cruel pirate he was a brave man. But Bonnet
was only one, and his crew numbered dozens, and notwithstanding his furiously dissenting voice
it was determined to surrender, and when Mr. Rhett sailed up to the Royal James, intending
to board her if the pirates still showed resistance, he found them ready to submit to terms
and to yield themselves his prisoners.

Thus ended the great sea-fight between the private gentlemen, and thus ended Stede Bonnet's
career. He and his men were taken to Charles Town, where most of the pirate crew were tried
and executed. The green-hand pirate, who had wrought more devastation along the American coast
than many a skilled sea-robber, was held in custody to await his trial, and it seems very strange
that there should have been a public sentiment in Charles Town which induced the officials
to treat this pirate with a certain degree of respect simply from the fact that his station
in life had been that of a gentleman. He was a much more black-hearted scoundrel than any of
his men, but they were executed as soon as possible while his trial was postponed and he was
allowed privileges which would never have been accorded a common pirate. In consequence of
this leniency he escaped and had to be retaken by Mr. Rhett. It was so long before he was tried
that sympathy for his misfortunes arose among some of the tender-hearted citizens of Charles
Town whose houses he would have pillaged and whose families he would have murdered if the exigencies
of piracy had rendered such action desirable.

Finding that other people were trying to save his life, Bonnet came down from his high horse
and tried to save it himself by writing piteous letters to the Governor, begging for mercy.
But the Governor of South Carolina had no notion of sparing a pirate who had deliberately put
himself under the protection of the law in order that he might better pursue his lawless and
wicked career, and the green hand, with the black heart, was finally hung on the same spot
where his companions had been executed.

Chapter XXVII

A Six Weeks' Pirate

About the time of Stede Bonnet's terminal adventures a very unpretentious pirate made his appearance
in the waters of New York. This was a man named Richard Worley, who set himself up in piracy
in a very small way, but who, by a strict attention to business, soon achieved a remarkable
success. He started out as a scourge upon the commerce of the Atlantic Ocean with only an open
boat and eight men. In this small craft he went down the coast of New Jersey taking everything
he could from fishing boats and small trading vessels until he reached Delaware Bay, and here
he made a bold stroke and captured a good-sized sloop.

When this piratical outrage was reported at Philadelphia, it created a great sensation, and
people talked about it until the open boat with nine men grew into a great pirate ship filled
with roaring desperadoes and cutthroats. From Philadelphia the news was sent to New York, and
that government was warned of the great danger which threatened the coast. As soon as this
alarming intelligence was received, the New Yorkers set to work to get up an expedition which
should go out to sea and endeavor to destroy the pirate vessel before it could enter their
port, and work havoc among their merchantmen.

It may seem strange that a small open boat with nine men could stir up such a commotion in
these two great provinces of North America, but if we can try to imagine the effect which would
be produced among the inhabitants of Staten Island, or in the hearts of the dwellers in the
beautiful houses on the shores of the Delaware River, by the announcement that a boat carrying
nine desperate burglars was to be expected in their neighborhood, we can better understand
what the people of New York and Philadelphia thought when they heard that Worley had captured
a sloop in Delaware Bay.

The expedition which left New York made a very unsuccessful cruise. It sailed for days and
days, but never saw a sign of a boat containing nine men, and it returned disappointed and
obliged to report no progress. With Worley, however, progress had been very decided. He captured
another sloop, and this being a large one and suitable to his purposes, he took possession
of it, gave up his open boat, and fitted out his prize as a regular piratical craft. With a
good ship under his command, Captain Worley now enlarged his sphere of action; on both shores
of Delaware Bay, and along the coast of New Jersey, he captured everything which came in his
way, and for about three weeks he made the waters in those regions very hot for every kind
of peaceable commercial craft. If Worley had been in trade, his motto would have been "Quick
sales and small profits," for by day and by night, the New York's Revenge, which was the name
he gave to his new vessel, cruised east and west and north and south, losing no opportunity
of levying contributions of money, merchandise, food, and drink upon any vessel, no matter
how insignificant it might be.

The Philadelphians now began to tremble in their shoes; for if a boat had so quickly grown
into a sloop, the sloop might grow into a fleet, and they had all heard of Porto Bello, and
the deeds of the bloody buccaneers. The Governor of Pennsylvania, recognizing the impending
danger and the necessity of prompt action, sent to Sandy Hook, where there was a British man-of-war,
the Phoenix, and urged that this vessel should come down into Delaware Bay and put an end to
the pirate ship which was ravaging those waters. Considering that Worley had not been engaged
in piracy for much more than four weeks, he had created a reputation for enterprise and industry,
which gave him a very important position as a commerce destroyer, and a large man-of-war did
not think that he was too small game for her to hunt down, and so she set forth to capture
or destroy the audacious Worley. But never a Worley of any kind did she see. While the Phoenix
was sailing along the coast, examining all the coves and harbors of New Jersey and Pennsylvania,
the New York's Revenge put out to sea, and then proceeded southward to discover a more undisturbed
field of operation.

We will now leave Worley's vessel sailing southward, and go for a time to Charles Town, where
some very important events were taking place. The Governor of South Carolina had been very
much afraid that the pirates in general would take some sort of revenge for the capture of
Stede Bonnet, who was then in prison awaiting trial, and that if he should be executed, Charles
Town might be visited by an overpowering piratical force, and he applied to England to have
a war-vessel sent to the harbor. But before any relief of this kind could be expected, news
came to Charles Town that already a celebrated pirate, named Moody, was outside of the harbor,
capturing merchant vessels, and it might be that he was only waiting for the arrival of other
pirate ships to sail into the harbor and rescue Bonnet.

Now the Charles Town citizens saw that they must again act for themselves, and not depend upon
the home government. If there were pirates outside the harbor, they must be met and fought
before they could come up to the city; and the Governor and the Council decided immediately
to fit out a little fleet. Four merchant vessels were quickly provided with cannon, ammunition,
and men, and the command of this expedition would undoubtedly have been given to Mr. Rhett
had it not been that he and the Governor had quarrelled. There being no naval officers in Charles
Town, their fighting vessels had to be commanded by civilians, and Governor Johnson now determined
that he would try his hand at carrying on a sea-fight. Mr. Rhett had done very well; why should
not he?

Before the Governor's little fleet of vessels, one of which was the Royal James, captured from
Bonnet, was quite ready to sail, the Governor received news that his preparations had not been
made a moment too soon, for already two vessels, one a large ship, and the other an armed sloop,
had come into the outer harbor, and were lying at anchor off Sullivan's Island. It was very
likely that Moody, having returned from some outside operation, was waiting there for the arrival
of other pirate ships, and that it was an important thing to attack him at once.

As it was very desirable that the pirates should not be frightened away before the Charles
Town fleet could reach them, the vessels of the latter were made to look as much like mere
merchantmen as possible. Their cannon were covered, and the greater part of the crews was kept
below, out of sight. Thus the four ships came sailing down the bay, and early in the morning
made their appearance in the sight of the pirates. When the ship and the big sloop saw the
four merchant vessels sailing quietly out of the harbor, they made immediate preparations to
capture them. Anchors were weighed, sails were set, and with a black flag flying from the topmast
of each vessel, the pirates steered toward the Charles Town fleet, and soon approached near
enough to the King William, which was the foremost of the fleet, to call upon her captain to
surrender. But at that moment Governor Johnson, who was on board the Mediterranean, and could
hear the insolent pirate shouting through his speaking-trumpet, gave a preconcerted signal.
Instantly everything was changed. The covers were jerked off from the cannon of the pretended
merchantmen, armed men poured up out of the holds, the flag of England was quickly raised on
each one of them, and the sixty-eight guns of the combined fleet opened fire upon the astonished
pirates.

The ship which seemed to be the more formidable of the enemy's vessels had run up so close
to her intended prey that two of Governor Johnson's vessels, the Sea-Nymph and the Royal James,
once so bitterly opposed to each other, but now fighting together in honest comradeship, were
able to go between her and the open sea and so cut off her retreat.

But if the captain of the pirate ship could not get away, he showed that he was very well able
to fight, and although the two vessels which had made him the object of their attack were pouring
cannon balls and musket shot upon him, he blazed away with his cannon and his muskets. The
three vessels were so near each other that sometimes their yard-arms almost touched, so that
this terrible fight seemed almost like a hand-to-hand conflict. For four hours the roaring
of the cannon, the crushing of timbers, the almost continuous discharge of musketry were kept
up, while the smoke of the battle frequently almost prevented the crews of the contending ships
from seeing each other. Not so very far away the people of Charles Town, who were standing
on the shores of their beautiful harbor, could see the fierce fight which was going on, and
great was the excitement and anxiety throughout the city.

But the time came when two ships grew too much for one, and as the Royal James and the Sea-Nymph
were able to take positions by which they could rake the deck of the pirate vessel, many of
her men gave up the fight and rushed down into the hold to save their lives. Then both the
Charles Town vessels bore down upon the pirate and boarded her, and now there was another savage
battle with pistols and cutlasses. The pirate captain and several of his crew were still on
deck, and they fought like wounded lions, and it was not until they had all been cut down or
shot that victory came to the men of Charles Town.

Very soon after this terrible battle was over the waiting crowds in the city saw a glorious
sight; the pirate ship came sailing slowly up the harbor, a captured vessel, with the Sea-Nymph
on one side and the Royal James on the other, the colors of the Crown flying from the masts
of each one of the three.

The other pirate ship, which was quite large, seemed to be more fortunate than her companion,
for she was able to get out to sea, and spreading all her sails she made every effort to escape.
Governor Johnson, however, had no idea of letting her get away if he could help it. When a
civilian goes out to fight a sea-battle he naturally wants to show what he can do, and Governor
Johnson did not mean to let people think that Mr. Rhett was a better naval commander than he
was. He ordered the Mediterranean and the King William to put on all sail, and away they went
after the big ship. The retreating pirates did everything they could to effect escape, throwing
over their cannon, and even their boats, in order to lighten their ship, but it was of no use.
The Governor's vessels were the faster sailers, and when the King William got near enough to
fire a few cannon balls into the flying ship, the latter hauled down the black flag and without
hesitation lay to and surrendered.

It was plain enough that this ship was not manned by desperate pirates, and when Governor Johnson
went on board of her he found her to be not really a pirate ship, but an English vessel which
not long before had been captured by the pirates in whose company she had visited Charles Town
harbor. She had been bringing over from England a company of convicts and what were called
"covenant servants," who were going to the colonies to be disposed of to the planters for a
term of years. Among these were thirty-six women, and when the South Carolinians went below
they were greatly surprised to find the hold crowded with these unfortunate creatures, some
of whom were nearly frightened to death. At the time of this vessel's capture the pirate captain
had enlisted some of the convicts into his crew, as he needed men, and putting on board of
his prize a few pirates to command her, the ship had been worked by such of her own crew and
passengers as were willing to serve under pirates, while the others were shut up below.

Here was a fine prize taken with very little trouble, and the King William and the Mediterranean
returned to Charles Town with their captured ship, to be met with the shouts and cheers of
the delighted citizens, already excited to a high pitch by the previous arrival of the captured
pirate sloop.

But Governor Johnson met with something else which made a stronger impression on him than the
cheers of his townspeople, and this was the great surprise of finding that he had not fought
and conquered the pirate Moody; without suspecting such a thing, he had crushed and utterly
annihilated the dreaded Worley, whose deeds had created such a consternation in northern waters,
and whose threatened approach had sent a thrill of excitement all down the coast. When this
astonishing news became known, the flags of the city were waved more wildly, and the shouts
and cheers rose higher.

Thus came to an end, in the short time of six weeks, the career of Richard Worley, who, without
doubt, did more piratical work in less time than any sea-robber on record.

Chapter XXVIII

The Story of Two Women Pirates

The history of the world gives us many instances of women who have taken the parts of men,
almost always acquitting themselves with as much credit as if they had really belonged to the
male sex, and, in our modern days, these instances are becoming more frequent than ever before.
Joan of Arc put on a suit of armor and bravely led an army, and there have been many other
fighting women who made a reputation for themselves; but it is very seldom that we hear of
a woman who became a pirate. There were, however, two women pirates who made themselves very
well known on our coast.

The most famous of these women pirates was named Mary Reed. Her father was an English captain
of a trading vessel, and her mother sailed with him. This mother had had an elder child, a
son, and she also had a mother-in-law in England from whom she expected great things for her
little boy. But the boy died, and Mrs. Reed, being afraid that her mother-in-law would not
be willing to leave any property to a girl, determined to play a little trick, and make believe
that her second child was also a boy.

Consequently, as soon as the little girl, who, from her birth had been called Mary by her father
and mother, was old enough to leave off baby clothes, she put on boy's clothes, and when the
family returned to England a nice little boy appeared before his grandmother; but all this
deception amounted to nothing, for the old lady died without leaving anything to the pretended
boy. Mary's mother believed that her child would get along better in the world as a boy than
she would as a girl, and therefore she still dressed her in masculine clothes, and put her
out to service as a foot-boy, or one of those youngsters who now go by the name of "Buttons."

But Mary did not fancy blacking boots and running errands. She was very well satisfied to be
a boy, but she wanted to live the kind of a boy's life which would please her fancy, and as
she thought life on the ocean wave would suit her very well, she ran away from her employer's
house and enlisted on board a man-of-war as a powder monkey.

After a short time, Mary found that the ocean was not all that she expected it to be, and when
she had grown up so that she looked like a good strapping fellow, she ran away from the man-of-war
when it was in an English port, and went to Flanders, and there she thought she would try something
new, and see whether or not she would like a soldier's life better than that of a sailor. She
enlisted in a regiment of foot, and in the course of time she became a very good soldier and
took part in several battles, firing her musket and charging with her bayonet as well as any
of the men beside her.

But there is a great deal of hard work connected with infantry service, and although she was
eager for the excitement of battle with the exhilarating smell of powder and the cheering shouts
of her fellow-soldiers, Mary did not fancy tramping on long marches, carrying her heavy musket
and knapsack. She got herself changed into a regiment of cavalry, and here, mounted upon a
horse, with the encumbrances she disliked to carry comfortably strapped behind her, Mary felt
much more at ease, and much better satisfied. But she was not destined to achieve fame as a
dashing cavalry man with foaming steed and flashing sabre. One of her comrades was a very prepossessing
young fellow, and Mary fell in love with him, and when she told him she was not really a cavalry
man but a cavalry woman, he returned her affection, and the two agreed that they would quit
the army, and set up domestic life as quiet civilians. They were married, and went into the
tavern-keeping business. They were both fond of horses, and did not wish to sever all connection
with the method of life they had just given up, and so they called their little inn the Three
Horse Shoes, and were always glad when any one of their customers came riding up to their stables,
instead of simply walking in their door.

But this domestic life did not last very long. Mary's husband died, and, not wishing to keep
a tavern by herself, she again put on the dress of a man and enlisted as a soldier. But her
military experience did not satisfy her, and after all she believed that she liked the sea
better than the land, and again she shipped as a sailor on a vessel bound for the West Indies.

Now Mary's desire for change and variety seemed likely to be fully satisfied. The ship was
taken by English pirates, and as she was English and looked as if she would make a good freebooter,
they compelled her to join them, and thus it was that she got her first idea of a pirate's
life. When this company disbanded, she went to New Providence and enlisted on a privateer,
but, as was very common on such vessels commissioned to perform acts of legal piracy, the crew
soon determined that illegal piracy was much preferable, so they hoisted the black flag, and
began to scourge the seas.

Mary Reed was now a regular pirate, with a cutlass, pistol, and every outward appearance of
a daring sea-robber, except that she wore no bristling beard, but as her face was sunburned
and seamed by the weather, she looked mannish enough to frighten the senses out of any unfortunate
trader on whose deck she bounded in company with her shouting, hairy-faced companions. It is
told of her that she did not fancy the life of a pirate, but she seemed to believe in the principle
of whatever is worth doing is worth doing well; she was as ready with her cutlass and her pistol
as any other ocean bandit.

But although Mary was a daring pirate, she was also a woman, and again she fell in love. A
very pleasant and agreeable sailor was taken prisoner by the crew of her ship, and Mary concluded
that she would take him as her portion of the spoils. Consequently, at the first port they
touched she became again a woman and married him, and as they had no other present method of
livelihood he remained with her on her ship. Mary and her husband had no real love for a pirate's
life, and they determined to give it up as soon as possible, but the chance to do so did not
arrive. Mary had a very high regard for her new husband, who was a quiet, amiable man, and
not at all suited to his present life, and as he had become a pirate for the love of her, she
did everything she could to make life easy for him.

She even went so far as to fight a duel in his place, one of the crew having insulted him,
probably thinking him a milksop who would not resent an affront. But the latent courage of
Mary's husband instantly blazed up, and he challenged the insulter to a duel. Although Mary
thought her husband was brave enough to fight anybody, she thought that perhaps, in some ways,
he was a milksop and did not understand the use of arms nearly as well as she did. Therefore,
she made him stay on board the ship while she went to a little island near where they were
anchored and fought the duel with sword and pistol. The man pirate and the woman pirate now
went savagely to work, and it was not long before the man pirate lay dead upon the sand, while
Mary returned to an admiring crew and a grateful husband.

During her piratical career Mary fell in with another woman pirate, Anne Bonny, by name, and
these women, being perhaps the only two of their kind, became close friends. Anne came of a
good family. She was the daughter of an Irish lawyer, who went to Carolina and became a planter,
and there the little girl grew up. When her mother died she kept the house, but her disposition
was very much more masculine than feminine. She was very quick-tempered and easily enraged,
and it is told of her that when an Englishwoman, who was working as a servant in her father's
house, had irritated Anne by some carelessness or impertinence, that hot-tempered young woman
sprang upon her and stabbed her with a carving-knife.

It is not surprising that Anne soon showed a dislike for the humdrum life on a plantation,
and meeting with a young sailor, who owned nothing in the world but the becoming clothes he
wore, she married him. Thereupon her father, who seems to have been as hot-headed as his daughter,
promptly turned her out of doors. The fiery Anne was glad enough to adopt her husband's life,
and she went to sea with him, sailing to New Providence. There she was thrown into an entirely
new circle of society. Pirates were in the habit of congregating at this place, and Anne was
greatly delighted with the company of these daring, dashing sea-robbers, of whose exploits
she had so often heard. The more she associated with the pirates, the less she cared for the
plain, stupid sailors, who were content with the merchant service, and she finally deserted
her husband and married a Captain Rackham, one of the most attractive and dashing pirates of
the day.

Anne went on board the ship of her pirate husband, and as she was sure his profession would
exactly suit her wild and impetuous nature, she determined also to become a pirate. She put
on man's clothes, girded to her side a cutlass, and hung pistols in her belt. During many voyages
Anne sailed with Captain Rackham, and wherever there was pirate's work to do, she was on deck
to do it. At last the gallant captain came to grief. He was captured and condemned to death.
Now there was an opportunity for Anne's nature to assert itself, and it did, but it was a very
different sort of nature from that of Mary Reed. Just before his execution Anne was admitted
to see her husband, but instead of offering to do anything that might comfort him or palliate
his dreadful misfortune, she simply stood and contemptuously glared at him. She was sorry,
she said, to see him in such a predicament, but she told him plainly that if he had had the
courage to fight like a man, he would not then be waiting to be hung like a dog, and with that
she walked away and left him.

On the occasion when Captain Rackham had been captured, Mary Reed and her husband were on board
his ship, and there was, perhaps, some reason for Anne's denunciation of the cowardice of Captain
Rackham. As has been said, the two women were good friends and great fighters, and when they
found the vessel engaged in a fight with a man-of-war, they stood together upon the deck and
boldly fought, although the rest of the crew, and even the captain himself, were so discouraged
by the heavy fire which was brought to bear on them, that they had retreated to the hold.

Mary and Anne were so disgusted at this exhibition of cowardice, that they rushed to the hatchways
and shouted to their dastardly companions to come up and help defend the ship, and when their
entreaties were disregarded they were so enraged that they fired down into the hold, killing
one of the frightened pirates and wounding several others. But their ship was taken, and Mary
and Anne, in company with all the pirates who had been left alive, were put in irons and carried
to England.

When she was in prison, Mary declared that she and her husband had firmly intended to give
up piracy and become private citizens. But when she was put on trial, the accounts of her deeds
had a great deal more effect than her words upon her judges, and she was condemned to be executed.
She was saved, however, from this fate by a fever of which she died soon after her conviction.

The impetuous Anne was also condemned, but the course of justice is often very curious and
difficult to understand, and this hard-hearted and sanguinary woman was reprieved and finally
pardoned. Whether or not she continued to disport herself as a man we do not know, but it is
certain that she was the last of the female pirates.

There are a great many things which women can do as well as men, and there are many professions
and lines of work from which they have been long debarred, and for which they are most admirably
adapted, but it seems to me that piracy is not one of them. It is said that a woman's nature
is apt to carry her too far, and I have never heard of any man pirate who would allow himself
to become so enraged against the cowardice of his companions that he would deliberately fire
down into the hold of a vessel containing his wife and a crowd of his former associates.

Chapter XXIX

A Pirate from Boyhood

About the beginning of the eighteenth century there lived in Westminster, England, a boy who
very early in life made a choice of a future career. Nearly all boys have ideas upon this subject,
and while some think they would like to be presidents or generals of armies, others fancy that
they would prefer to be explorers of unknown countries or to keep candy shops. But it generally
happens that these youthful ideas are never carried out, and that the boy who would wish to
sell candy because he likes to eat it, becomes a farmer on the western prairie, where confectionery
is never seen, and the would-be general determines to study for the ministry.

