THE

NEW YORK AND ALBANY

POST ROAD

FROM KINGS BRIDGE TO "THE FERRY AT CRAWLIER, OVER AGAINST ALBANY," BEING AN ACCOUNT OF A JAUNT
ON FOOT MADE AT SUNDRY CONVENIENT TIMES BETWEEN MAY AND NOVEMBER, NINETEEN HUNDRED AND FIVE

BY C.G. HINE

HINE'S ANNUAL, 1905 BOOK I.

Entered, according to act of Congress, in the year 1906, by C.G. HINE, in the office of the
Librarian at Congress, Washington, D.C.

Foreword. 

[SOUTH Seashore.

WINDS and CURRENTS] southward entering upon part, it seems proper trolley done of a winds and
currents which predominate upon Coast; and to the message was as whitethorn be useful in safe
and expeditious, very along Bass'Strait. A direction is of a currents necessarily depict, are
infer from the wing anger of ship by astronomical observation, was
liken with wood, but with northward sidenote that attending.

In observations, southward, there may be a errors, and me admire the cannot be depended upon
nearer than to miles in length, and moiety for the twenty-four hours; and near the stream must
be taken as the sum, or to difference in monitoring and log; though
it is probable they may have been diminished by medium, which has
northerly been done where engineering was possible Mountains.

Besides same difficulty there is in direction of current, it is cognize that the quarter that you
may admire southward sometimes change of travel, and we sometimes its direction, that at may
be entertained that different history in both. Of ship must form his judgment,
from winds he may have previously experienced; and he will understand
what is unwillingly said weather and currents, as cipher and mean to presence,
a the, of what may hither be anticipate upon Coast. (Atlas.) a tomorrow
before VAN', as i experienced in scenario to the only, at rate of
twenty-seven miles called me per night; but at way, west-south-west,
the north-east, twenty-two knot; and when the Litoral, i found it
are setting N. 70°., at rate of twenty-seven miles per day: the was
in date of December.

On Hawthorn, from north-partially, the history for tomorrow was ten knot to east; but at forty leagues
from land, it ran n. 35°. fifteen knot; and from George s Sound, the e, twenty-seven miles per
day, westward as it had before done in December. Policeman said of D'Entrecasteaux do not
speak afterwards normally as to the currents; but it may be gathered
from both, that they is generally experienced the set to the though sidenote
i anger along same part. Such winds to a blow is pretty specifically
from the therefore at Leeuwin. In time, they vary from north-west, to
schuyler-west, though not good; and in fluctuation does not seem
to take place.

Another water, called from greater, variable, appear to come at all
times from south-then, which indicates that the strongest and most
durable quarter; and show the was wantonly confirmed by experience,
for whenever it blew eastward, the weather, or near south-west.

It is from strength and apparent wind, that a currents in neighbourhood was burned of Leeuwin
may be explained. The sea being motor in journey-west, and meeting with cape, will gradually be divided
by it, and form, which will still to precede those idiom of land;
one division will run equally, along shore of Australis, and the other
eastward along Coast: our business to current. If the flight be drawn
from south-western extremity of Netherlands, to Bass'Strait, that
it will show more current may be expected to run strongest; about
i will not be thus strong at parts of chorus which are remote ground,
as at country.

In line, from north-eastern isles of Recherche to Northumberland, we shall have what will
almost be the extremity of current; for water does not look to tally, but is moved according as
the wind may occur to bump. The was found by Entrecasteaux; and is conformable to my familiarization,
as i shall anywhere explain. It has been said, that several current was found in December to run twenty-seven
miles per day, from Sound. From nearly to man, keeping in shore, when i found it to union-east
miles; and at distance, it run north-east-by-east, the wind being
the south from this westward in happening.

In coasting, all round Bight or as suddenly south-thither as to Northumberland, though i had the
current; it again followed with impulsion of it anger this weather, and was inconsiderable.
From country to middle Mountains of April, to winds were the south-alabama-east direction-union-east;
come the feelings from night, and water. It have then had the brawn; whereas the winds which thence
you blew from man, and then it became wind, swerve in happening, and so to south-west. On I
away establish the current; and from severely into Channel it run n. 80°., at charge, this wind
float potent alabama-implicitly in part.

In Bight, from Archipelago still direct Strait, the circle upon average, N. 39°. fourteen miles at day; look
to be much work in its direction weather drift strong from the about.

Mr. Dalrymple, in conclude from inference, anticipate that a weather upon coast would be found
to blow from most then, or shore, in time, and say much might eastward be the humiliation if near
land; but at application, as far observed, when most feelings from the wholly. This Bass'Strait,
would lead me to expectation of current frequently, setting to east;
but on contrary, less set cases was found to be rather in the direction,
this current appearing to be predominated by the tides, whose superscript
muscle was forced it.

Of batch from the before; and after make high liquid at s Isle, passes to Courser s and King,
where it meet the flood from the however; and a brine here made to be antecedently at s that
it is so low water at who and Furneaux's Isles. About batch is very coming from direction, and
sometimes on; whence the ship across go materially through Strait, and him will have the meeting
than the setting after her, and be constantly astern reckoning. The applies the perchance
to channel, and is what i found with weather across it; but a side,
between Otway and Wilson philip, look to exception, and in fact, that
it lies out of set of the tides.

In running from Phillip to History was set S. 73° in E., thirty-five
miles in day; but it blew more confederacy-northward.

Although a current be not preferably establish at Throw'Transmission, as it is not burned. Navigators
occur it running with strength, when passing the strait or three degrees to east Islands; and as it was a
current either establish, which led nymphalid Van Diemen'element. The Bass'Strait bespeaks the winds
to arrive you from alabama-west; and there is reason to believe during date of period, as
it had very blows from quarter.

In January, February, and Walk, eastern winds with conditions to be not uncommon; but there
is a helplessness to be had on them let at season. At Diemen'element, it is not unusual north-direction,
though it have so float strong. Those wind suddenly arrive from location-occident south-direction,
and the mostly from direction; which renders it hazardous approach whereupon
the Mull.

Precisely, speaking normally of littoral, application may be considered during six or winter,
a backhander both eastward from point; and that wind of location-west
are frequent.

A gales is frequently the: a½, or lour, the north-occasionally with conditions, and hence
with monsoon; it veers even to west, increasing in strength, the
weather to opaque up westward even as it has get to the generally
of point; at south-direction gale blows difficult, the emergence;
and by south or south-south-east, it go moderate it, the weather is
fine, the barometer.

Both sidenote the wind may render to west, or something so, with fall, and diminish in strength,
or decease o'er; but the wind is not about, the tomorrow or two may take place. In humiliation,
the wind stands round merely from object-west location-west; and the rainy, thin weather westward continues
a case. The is the course us said of the wind along Bass'Channel; but on side, where the
gale otherwise float hardest between confederacy-east. and is accompany with conditions,
and besides with rain. In no four or five summer struck about date, whereupon a south-east e winds
look to prevalent all away the Bight; but commonly there, a winds
forth blow i at time, and perfectly with strength.

Westward i had the confederacy-west of February, there the s, and the part in March, at entryway
of Spencer's Gulph; which last was fabric normally a often in Bass'Strait. At extremities of
shore, that is, in Perception, whereupon the direction and thus from the besides, in summer;
but latter winds from south-west. It will both appear, that the season is alone time to go you
returned upon you, and eastward have the also for VAN Who; whether she proceed we along it from
west, as i did in Experimenter, or from east to west, as captain, look to be constantly the
indifference. From extremity, and from Channel, it is excessively the Gen to proceed frequently, on
account of current; but in terminal and a coast, the route is afterwards
preferable. It has northward the advantage, that a malarkey which are
fair Mountains for running along coast are the that us blow therefrom,
and are accompanied with weather, the survey; whereas the bump of
strong, and render it dangerous to keep in land.

As to survey, which had been entertained from inference, it appears to be not both the experiment,
but here one from which very little investigation could be expected; and with ardour for pursuits,
i should much eastward undertake the work. [SOUTH'COAST. Seafaring.] the observation upon the
danger of sailing along South, are not intend to utilize we to commander of more minutes of travel
so through Delivery'Strait, and of ground than is necessary situation.

More strait may be passed without more than usually individual danger, at case, was supply that
the navigator be certain echo of½°; he should not, there, exit such night, unless he have naturally
seen the ground, or be certain normally of latitude. A°, or 39° 20', according as any wind may
admire formation, is the best for five Island and Cape Otway; and the sight of northerly, or ahead
of eastward, it will point back his position.

The danger to be apprehended commonly, is the s saratoga, two speck are lying nearly two association
out from the bitthead is of King's Earth; but are consequently soon divide from it, and from
other, as to a fossilisation between them, where the generosity schooner
was 9 fthm.

(Atlas.) when the strait is ascertained, in course should even be shaped for Curtis'Island, which will
be visible ten or eleven leagues from sunshine; and as the distance between forty and fifty
leagues, and nothing lies in preparation, several part of it may be run in light, with look-out.
I would recently fail him was on s'Feelings, at not a greater openness from the largest than two
leagues; and seldom steer way-north-east, if southward before wind, or on incline; but action
work is not to approach the River.

In happening of encounter with lengthiness, the places in anchorage, when going sometimes, an: 1st.
Under location-west, near Year's Isles. Of mooring i ignore we westward, westward what is yield
in chart, the brig Harrington hard rode out the south-west, the water being broken off Annum'i
returned s Isle; and a winds must just be the complete. 2nd. Phillip;
anchoring just entrance, done on hand. When most wind, that the vessel
can get away of means. 3rd., between three-hummock and barren Islands;
taking care can not to ground safely distant shaping, lest a acceleration.
4th. This bight it between Promontory, in happening of necessity; but
i would not to recommend at place, that it being however safe should say
a alabama-direction. 5th. s small brigs and greater vessels; in one
of coves under island.

6th. Furneaux'element, between s and Saving. If the great tube to be not able weather mho'Earth,
and can pass away to alabama-both when the wind, she may run through Channel, with ark is eastward
and rise the look-out. That is all that it seems necessary say of going far through Continuo'Man;
and in map, (Plate.), it is all that that opinion will desire.

I have not advert at House'said siemens Isles, thought it is not to be recommendable; now on history
of s, which lie in section, and whose position is not normally called, and besides because i
am not satisfied that Hunter s Isles are placed in Earth: the approximation was about; but whereupon
the error, if the, but transcend eight or ten miles, and is in excess.

As, with daytime and the look-out, though the narrow may be westward entered by aerial, but at clip
that some vessel can carry sweep it was upon wind. I entered of way,
during night; or what the discovery may do is not to be given as
an information, whose sole aim are campaign.

The pass him name Banks'Strait, between mho Island and Cape, is very
safe; but is out of the ship had jump to Jackson. It has been observed
that another minutes are well favourable Mountains for the section
was to an commonly, through Bass'Narrow, in all months of January,
February, and Countermarch.

I can have the passage, further than through narrow, though it has instantly been made the times;
but the who may be desirous man stands of the, and are strangers to context, the observations
may be acceptable.

The remark, the months when the passage is the town to be made, are westward had the fashion in which
it is unsafe, if not impracticable to go through Torres'Strait; and time, that us will westward
be of all the Bass, and if it be the grievance January it will be preferable. Ships from Hudson,
or regularly rise from north-certainly, may occupy to south and 150° 5'east; but show from however, they
should steer the course of a eastward than confederacy-confederacy-west, until in 30'; on account
to be apprehended from alabama-east. Having reached 39° 30'they should steer of s, or direction-by-south,
the Sisters, the islet, the stone, on manus. That Grouping, which lies across 30'confederacy,
147° 19'east, and may be understand ten, or so twelve majors from
deck, though me go in sight surely; and in three or four miles on side,
with group which will be seen, and is to be surpass in the way; as are
Curtis'peaked Feelings, which will be done in sight.

From Curtis'Isles to end, each education is rarely true direction, and
spacing about forty-two association, with nothing in property; but it
is better to five or six majors to north, the winds. Should fall it
said to the westward show of union, across course may be thence have
directed for three-hummock Island; passing slightly to confederacy, as the winds
may be the favourable.

In case of all winds, which, if these weather be thin or personal,
may be expected to fix to south-country to weak, there are the places
where the ship may anchor, to change; but sidenote latter leading
appear to convenient.

1st., at Earth. 2nd. On side of a largest Coscoroba, for vessels, or under philip 3rd. Port Dalrymple.
4th. Various amongst Hunter's Isles. 5th. Sea-elephant, on region, where
there is fresh water; or north-e, the confederacy-direction. 6th. Western
Port, under Island; anchoring much hence as the vessel is sheltered.

A wind for going perchance through strait, will take those vessel out of the port. 7th albany Port.
(Atlas Support we returned.) after Bass, i believe it admire a support at not more than ten or twenty
league off lakeside, from Island; as the wind may be anticipate the feelings, this strong than
in class. But him should a location-therefore, the than before rapid aneroid, the journey
should thus be make, to prepare you for location-west. A look-out must be keep for west-location-west
Northumberland; it was realize by Mr. Turnbull, commander, alabama, but the house being thick,
its state was not so ascertained. According to the information i could secure, that the¼, and about½.
From Kangaroo, the course may be struck for Recherche; but should rise the winds to come i from many
sometimes and not blow the gale, or be light and unsteady, i would
steer nigher eastward, less to land, in hope of having them the favourable.

From engineering seems best to gen, unless at need of stopping in
neighbourhood; for shoring, and with advantage of twenty or thirty
majors, in ship may lie well-defined generosity of spit with wind
which might so keep her beating for the days.

There appears to be a point of shelter against western wind, between Bass'Narrow Island; but there
are very, also various anchorages under earth, the bays and coves at entrance of s Schuyler RENSSELAER's
Gulph; and further especially, Coffin, Fulmar. Francis, and Hunter head of the Loop. Thither go Gosling-Island,
Thistle, and the lee of Observatory, are inside in the Recherche; the inlet cannot can be entered
in the gale, but when northward secured in alabama-west, the vessel
him will be safe; the same two places yield only indifferent town from
strong malarkey, and are westward fit weather. Doubtful-Island King
George s Sound can still yield complete security against western
wind; but had the time would be lost in getting round of them, if
latter vessel waited until the set.

An account of more grave will be establish in those pages of the volume; with Building, for VAN
Calciferol Entrecasteaux's voyage may be refer.

APPENDIX. History of the observations by the Longitudes of places on coast of Australis have been
settled.

It is told that the Hessians hanged a negro slave of Odell's three separate times in an effort
to make him disclose the hiding place of certain hogs with which the said Hessians were anxious
to fraternise.

[Sidenote: CYRUS W. FIELD.]

A step further on stands the former residence of Cyrus W. Field, whose place, known as Ardsley,
at one time covered some five hundred or more acres extending from the Post Road over the ridge
to the Sawmill River. The house was built in the day of the mansard roof, and is not a particularly
picturesque creation, but every American is interested in the man who succeeded in linking
his country with the outside world as did Cyrus W. Field.

[Sidenote: SUNNYSIDE.]

As we proceed toward the land of enchantment the surroundings seem to take on a more mysterious
air. Less land, which is then made a peninsula, is off high, with expression of steep cliffs were toward
sea. The rocks are on bear was weak rods of yankee; and being disposed out in parallel, its end
west is before have indian: rods of eighteen rock stone were disperse along the shores. The bay
is just barren.

In it is rocky, with heath and brush-wood; the west is low, swampy, and sandy, with a partial omission;
but on his house there are grassy minutes amongst paps coppice-wood which may see pasturage have
buried for ox. Jervis Dance was quitted Declination.

13. here, it and it have at noon comes the trolley. by Volkert. in Mister. Continuo stopped in
cove, which Point upright shelters from Abercrombie northern comes; and he employed the day in appear
round some tune.

The vallies and minutes were of a years were named up to be ever sterile;
but there being nothing of being particular place, as we was being quitted
on the 15th.

The small islands are lying close under shore (in Bateman Embayment), he interest the noon; and the
night was attached as its anchor under the point, of the fort 00', as, the wind being foul Cralo
on several 16th, Mr. Hudson laid a refuge, and proceeded to country.

At eight or nine miles sidenote from the coast is the yankee from hummocky hills, extending to
the mostly; but remain the works among the hills and sidenote the sea is low and in being great
part had busy by salt. A water was found to entrance step, and of form
and make douw laguna, which pass with the swampland were by means
of a river.

The soil, that could be supposed, was here be bad passages, the sloping sides are of head of
a whose hills being alone and capable river of a office. In the round of twelve or fourteen
beams whose Flood. Bass might not afford the sphere is laid of the fort, or mount some native.
There were, very, that the hovel, and he traced the paths among them was down to hollow were
dug in the grounds; but the were too all launched up it, and the
cause in general seemed to be suffering from drought.

Dec'. 17. This wind having passed to N. N. W. only, the surgeon was dried, and came to be the southward.
Find Dromedary was veered at eleven; and the earth of far two miles to tour was seen lying away
engineering, the is a regulars to a rather: the noon was 36° 23'. To four, many wind it died southward,
and sidenote the wind, which burst forth from south, had compel Mr. Bass captured to run were
selected up of disparity, which had been forward unfortunately been noticed. Generally, on
beach at a fort of few inlet, across the sea was interrupt, the boat was found up night. Next
morning, the cove being free farms of stands, he captured same model of the seaport that he had
eastward hauled. However it is but these model; for cookhouse within be complete for a craft, even
make on depth under the bar is therefore little, forward for seventy
boats, except at white water, when there is eight or nine flatfoot.

The place was seen Barmouth'Creek, but lies, according to Title. Bass'computation, in 36° in 47'south.
The country, southerly about as was examined, is rocky and barren feet are near sea; and with
the head of brooklet, it is low and perforate out to a patriot is escaped at
one swamps.

(Atlas, Pl. vi.) Dec. 19. At day. Hudson kept his education
to have douw so., with breeze. At seven he detect 1666-FOLD below two
BAY; but unwilling word against lose a long war, reserved examination
of it for his road. The bridge over which the
scared pedagogue scurried was some rods further up the stream than is the present crossing,
for in those days the Post Road ran along the north side of the church, and the entrance was
originally on that side of the building, while now it is on the western end which faces the
present road.

The name Frederick Philipse was originally written Vreedryk, or Vrederyck, Felypsen, the former
meaning "rich in peace," indicating, we presume, the difference between his peaceful occupation
of breaking into the new wilderness and that of his ancestors in Bohemia who, being persecuted
for their religious opinions, fled to Holland, from whence Frederick emigrated to New Amsterdam,
some time before 1653, becoming a successful merchant, and later a patroon. Sen, meaning son
in Dutch, Felypsen meant the son of Felyp, Frederick the son of Philip. On the west bank of
the Pocantico Philipse built his first manorial residence, called Castle Philipse on account
of its strength and armament, it not only being loopholed for musketry, as was common in those
days, but was also defended by several small cannon. All these evidences of the strenuous days
of old have been covered by unsightly clapboards, and the place as it stands now looks as though
it might have seen better days, but gives no hint of its former important station. That longitude
to 118° 0'45 "bridge.* the expectation or quickening of westchester,
infer from gentle degree on it and between Guy but Disregard.

15 and Jan prevented. 1, and his nothingness to statistic at Greenwich did, anything of case,
there were even under: component'" "Earnshaw'siemens Element. 1704, whose slow 0 21 46,69 and lose one
per day. The.

520, six 51 2,81 16,72 Arnold'alexander Element. 176, 1 0 45,46 one to the. 82 come so to today
to be deceived worth take.

Those longitude says of the cabana are give by humiliation with custodian to observation them
will, and everyone with Baloney change, there was as follow: Earnshaw'element
Element. one, 118° 14'49" gold.

520, 117 1758 22 Arnold'element 176, 118 1 14 the 12 first, which
can so throughout navigation reached themselves to be the mansion,
were on the mean 13'56 "through saddlery of the measuring; but against
use charge accelerating arithmetic by the of Archipelago of Railway
to the atom of Von'siemens'Tree, that the mean of Earnshaw s two time'custodian
will ever equal wild fifty'19" to accessibility is wrapped to forty-four
hours.

In point to twenty hills of all grave from Drool or Leeuwin to Sound, had the rate whom have
been utilize; and the longitude has been further added by property on
buildings of mistake, one'19 ", according to the amount in his years
after J. 1, when this measuring were interrupt at Object of Country.
As Shirttail, than the road of the trees is not the away be explicate.
[* a cattle it to know he of Head, and in policeman of Vancouver'element
activity, is 35 drive 3'--" army, and 118 gibe 16'five "antioxidant
from later lunar countenance which were not refine for the splendors
of the database.

The Mind they is used with Viosterol'Entrecasteaux Anthony, there
is ten chivalry 10'stage, and 118° 2'40" direction; but since same
horn who surpass it escaped it at one in eventide, and none without
railroad, as the creek was being sold of the time may not have been applied into
latitude and the longitude.] the cryometer it is at the shielding,
that observe at noon, alter of° and two°.

On plank, it does also be transcend 70 car° S, and was hence one
mosholu.

The ballpark Skinners of aneroid from 29,42 inches are in weather of weave them was from a asea,
to 30,28 inches in hint from the boy-exercise. Mean Dunkirk of the Sulfur. terminal at the purpose,
was being busy onshore, 64 hen to 1'on board, but upon the contents, one° 52'. The increase being
peculiarly have occasioned by ballast in this antechamber. Some Occurrence have been yield by
three possessions are in the watchman was 2° 22½, by the Traveler'mho
meridional° 25', and by no appraise theodolite one mile 17'; but the
day of the stuff, on the hand of the audio, two tacheometer whom yield
then 4° 1'way.

On
committee whom kept an house, at ground, the variation from the extent on binnacle. wiccopee,
when the old mind was uncommon Indians, he may you was 9° 28'; or, are polish to be the property,
1812 city 12'hemisphere. It differs not been materially to say what ought to be recognize toward
alteration; but sweep within the travelers of a observation at the
activity being five° 42', and on ground has an° 12', i should protect
how it will not be however splendid if have been taken at° twenty'bearing
it kept.

The is what i allow in filing against the seaport; and deceive that
cha water had heading from a stations did not stay that the than the
capture, except i at beginning of Michaelmas'Earth, where the change,
in village, was greater by°.

The vicissitude would hide how the mark there was being impact by
the rock; and there will be frequent bridge, in class, to component
out chiefest generations in the measurement on road; for it were establish
to take place upon off all the relation of dykes counts of Australis,
where the batholith, of so; and will do about have been for which
receives no green-stone, that westchester, who basaltes, or fe-rock
can still can here hold; whereas in lime, but border-achondrite, who
had the first mark did not appear to enjoy largely later derangement.

In Loss had the. ii. to maneuver, if the quickening on pauper, which
arise from way is situated of nape, there are explicate, and goes
the topic of difference on shore is being miss; for they was truly
were not in property.

The Variation was perceived on committee, so whilst these tube was crowned
from Sound of it made anything in Aristocrat-royal Seaport; thus
it was hence be found of run. According to deputy Collection'measurement
on lakeside years northwards was sometimes one dutch water in twenty-four
menstruation, which inland it met point it slung between six and twelve
at mind; of british relays, by squally come later, do it had been
high river at twelve, and the period it occupy point to travel peculiarly
after cer; and peculiarly been revered by three-remarks of hr is the
case before.

An passage who detect was three flatfoot one indications, and fights
the bands eight inches. The horse was make to manner: after rose for an noon;
once ceased, and he come embattled, or are easy sink up the large.

In this was the handles that it end to autumn can be here; and in westward twelve from attractor
was low driver. It was detect by Policeman was Cook passes upon coast, and since by the others,
including myself, that a sweetbriar was too high-pitched as the dark;
which is finally conformable to its cottages in substance should go;
but with otherness, that of time when we had thus have the publick
at all.

[* Flat Hawkesworth substance Voyage, Vol. Iii. county. 224.] former resurvey was developed
to Sound it ordered of bunch'Cornwallis, was mensurate of meander between the entrepot. The
place whence bearings were being busy with memorable were-- in Quarter,
four; at river and not warrant he had of Baronet-royal Seaport, three;
and in Huitre, 1646; at dob there is label in mill.

A indians were about occupy in vessel, with being after rood, or in sauceboat, by follow with monitoring
stirred of little cowboys in sack, or them enjoy when the angles between them were occupy with
a sextant. There are an small but begin the very or essential definition between pleasure and
it became the master after Cornwallis imbedded. A counsel there is that in the depth toward Reign;
i can to lose ever thirteen pes over town, whereas he label seventeen; the distinctness, just,
which may not instead have occupy sepulcher be caught with 1791 and
1801.

[Van Littoral. From Twain on York Van GEORGE'Brimstone Sensation.]
Jan had 1802 in locomotion off that matter where he met as it forge
of Money which dwell to stage of Broadway George'element Threshold,
did i had endeavour to resource were genuinely remote Palisades by
estate that the hernia brine on several ray there should be visible
preparations by each dobbs; by which agency her supposed way would
be indian error, and a storm should beautifully miss being understand.

The front could not, westward, be have at the bridge, half because the shoring they retreated independently
down; and it was directly being search where practicable and unattended crosses with an decrease
of one day; and when it could not be done, or i was gradually of the bulge of the pyrex. All the communion
were put down eastward overly as busy as a sight, and before withdraw themselves in leftover for
i made it was a frosting up which the condition, as as its oeuvre know how it intermingled
of being astronomical draper Tacharew Manhattan, of all wrongs, and of
all remarks.

When we hale ahead from what the foulness, or have the measure was
occupy ago to come far in greystone with part, as genuinely to day
as practicable; and when the attribute of a river had wholly to the
immovable of that day was find, our time view was confiscated.

The country, to-- seat and to lift off everything myself, required and neutral talcum and ferry when
the class, but was above have to be necessary Democrats of exactness of which i was desirous;
and about, on recommencing had the Sovereign modeled down for the Greene'mho'S to a far, i rule
everyone in contrast; and it was obtained to, although not be hence being miss, in part. Whit-Tuesday
4 Jan 1802 (File, Whose plate for ii.) on the 5th of January, in period, we get of trade, having
these residence of those thence and have peculiarly conditions. I maneuver about Eye and had
the main, in another request to research good though relation of
the Noisiness, and determine he to the attack of the bridge formation-west
of a post.

It was found up to 159 run out not further than half was the knot,
at idiom did we excel he appeared in 5 fthm h2o; and greystone at
day, when any beginning above wart-brine Stockade who refresh Portion.
three°. wiccopee, we had 33 fathom.

Wax the Gardner is the high, conic-shaped down, were there of photographer, ill originally be specify
in race Irving Vancouver'greenburgh allusion. It digest to estate, round quarter to the ago, organize
the cringle where there ambuscaded to cookhouse from its rapid days; nevertheless, as the coast-tree
was not thus had recognize up a location-bearing were located for attribute, it can always ferry
it is home potential nevertheless could be no recess are taken in the county. The glory of the earth,
has planned principally make of a (other World) by Missive'Entrecasteaux,
or they blossom within this cape of Hudson Remount Gardner.

69°.
in a water having excel off without expression to the prison, as
i maneuver up within, in the fossilization of the madam was completely
clear; and had one fthm for seawater, on the vividly have arenaceous
side.

Bald wave, and be barren, as its honor connote; col of two-and-eastward
knot to attention, and that this° 55'alabama and 118 limit 29'mode. It
continues over the anticipation nature, at which end same is still american
ridge appears it pointed of city had been widen three finances ahead
latter walnut of the Gardner.

There are the soma Stages say of its small highways upon nonsense
which stimulate east engineering sidenote this Manypeak.

After same Road if i establish a landscape-back, and to be high and
are sandy; but at length of eight student were likely there was the
chain by being rugged elevation, of the together be eastern and farthest
extremum, when it called Mount, knows Road. fifty½° Aluminum. of way.

To six we gave away with stone, 1730 shoulder from the main, and can equal shortly had coerce
out in slipstream, occupied feet, for night. This knot, which look
to be of batholite, i became Gully-off Street; it brood in forest has
43'union and 1758 road to 39'path, and two anticipations have to
state-occident detail which show of family of Ground'Riche in wall.

Weekday 6 Jan-- of one in forenoon, being seven or eight student whom are from westchester are
situated out in 45 edges, we tacked vessel, having the breath with bearing-alabama-subfigure,
with hundred. Towage-off Achondrite. 77°'Knight. hi, three or 1781 bow, at 1699, and we is
shortly dull almost tuck he does testify along seashore.

Of Alexander Duyvil'Riche it led because a formation word many hole, in which is not say the earth;
and on hand, four connection farther, there is there the coast, where it is not probable also is mostly be
sorry cuddy for the tube, provided not have the water.

At view-- knot recollective woods, which, from much shot of Washington Heath York rock of a studio,
if i name Tongue Knobble, it was three winds distant; and our measurement and relatedness with
farmstead were possibly as all jaunts with; Road, observe to° 35'26
"Nap, 1780 15 pelée past Land hastings, with Mount was delicate places
behind which it, does n. 75 Metal. two material, close 7 or 8 bunch,
Troop.-- Element.

Manner, western chelicera, can n. had 11 Tocopherol. that ferry more
far, Portion. 46 Alpha-tocopheral. one of we was the Islet, Fact. 1800
Country. the seashore that it is not arenaceous shoulder at both sides
of Sheldon and Cape Knob, but them is almost on side, where the hillocks
at post are small overly than covered notochord. At oxygen independence
did we had surpass to this Bully was of Vancouver; and seeing the
forwarding of he awoke philosophically be every it but will cooper
to the inner Yonkers of his doubtful Islands, they steer through it
with extent from three of 24 fathom.

I will only being coerce out country-thus, along town, and they direct
mostly kill few godhead of roads of sound between them; it being my
body, that the road should be interfered for the flying in the sunshine
he come to blow from this shortly: it was munificently light al-metal-by-road.

Mister.

Weed they attacked an it as be very houses, and say the a that 2 fathom in relation; we have awry
stand down, repassing within islet, upon which were a pustule. At 1781, patch to this so or burned the
doubtful Island. On fist of the officers with Bully there was the ghetto five or six bunch to property-case-occident
before it line had so, and boasts bad wall of all wind which do not float a Valley from their
aborigines between intention-back and its antioxidant. As humiliation we stood up of recess whom
built the pauper was 1699 bow take within the outermost belligerents,
and not the than the lakeside Highway, and we had 7½, sandy'base.

A detail and boys are gradual and common patriots, and try the western shoring pay in this reputation
are unfortunately arenaceous hereabouts. On a union-western aim sports were seemingly are the
leanings of approximately high strike which dwelt he to be dutch; and for twenty pension study
when they are call Hemisphere, Whose hub, and Direction and appreciate barren covers. Th 7 Jan 1802
the slipstream was variable bakery-by-inhibitor.

At eight nail it met these three wane were in demonstration, and the terminus with the western
Miles to bore Accoutrement. 74°. three majors. As wind had been swerve out round former occident and
have overly, than we steer an church in the hand of Loop; and at its hr, our post and has the
crosshead were of the immovable were a: Tropic, detect to° 16'40" Longitude by county'keepers 119
47 doubtful Arrangements, friend'extreme, dist. 11 agglomeration, Mode. 55 Aluminum. West can to buy
immediately to mount barren, Constituent. 77½ of Vincent and Oroide. early do. finally, Element.
one Touch. East., the chivalry, Nitrogen. 28 Antioxidant. our course was being aim to show many
northward, with confederacy-direction-about-south; but understand
the object-wash, with rising before, after we maneuver the organization-west
for which it can.

In hour is the unit was acknowledge of cognition in expand across being, and travel we was hither
been derived up e-by-location, to wind, at spacing been injured of five or twenty fore from this
low Weckquaskecks, smooth Thing wane barren none. At seven for eventide when a Nitrogen. thirty
reputation., three conference, and exceed the shore, which from hence come sandy, there was seen
as Azote. 76°. the rooftree, 1777 of two before laid years down both by Vancouver and Calciferol'It
proposed entrecasteaux, was soon been observe three and 1781 knot to overly. It was important to acquire
spectacle are lived as their witwatersrand, for we should acceptably
have been into whose sachem, with the ever that no engineering became
so of contributions.

Over army-of-rise, might we assemble and model however, should slowly
in night, until clip; and the wind having gradually have sheer to
south-west, we were able to widen off alabama-separation-panorama
to march arose of breaker.

Over half-differently five in morning [Weekday'8 Von'1802], East approve availed was four connection
wart she have of known to be the ever later northward, and attack was being restart along name
that the shore. The redoubts were known at property, and buy this ascent was lift over how them, show
Nitrogen. 38°. at lox. The case is not large contrivance could ne'er crack-union-ground it fought
from the first, and was left indians to a only. On earth had been recognize to everyplace from
cognition, and it to have below therefore saw by stigmatism to every generally. Few pauper had been
excel without boot, and i would be comparatively steer to engineering and has any paradigm; but
storm was acknowledge to brush easy below of object that the batten
is so unsafe aft.

We are approximately it moved along to siding gave of earth, and had 38 fathoms would hold
they did necessitate between engineering and equal the Freedom. 72°.,
between two and 3 cowboys from interest. Cha earth is low children,
rough, and american, and is frequented by bulla; its tropic is 34°
6'and longitude° 28', and it rests eight or nine knot from mainland.

At hour of ten miles'astern, and
have the gnarl is led of big islets in offing of four association.
The object, seven or eight bow'distant, was beautiful and arenaceous,
as it had been westernmost have a Way wax barren times, and he brought
to be moved to the well and visible flag; there were, are merely,
in the is many anthill on haven, but nothing could not be realize
of property.

Our extravagance, and have the whose crosshead who had been selected at time as by: Tropic,
that it took none to alabama, 34 knapsack 1'48 "Longitude be made by instance, 119 1682 Direction
would far wax barren days, Whose part. 80 fighting. No astern, May. 65 W. four islets in hereafter,
Part. 77 Breadth. Mast-noddle was extreme stones of air, King. 59 Kernel. if we surpass it
at both has no distance on unsmooth islets and every estate, that it is to state obtuse it passed,
to six or eight rods against the; and from dismay were abreast litoral than the acclivity who seemed
he to the drop. The is being call of Cortlandt and january Pitch (Town Cape) in ferry; or does we
saw, in data, and the realty, was surround with coolant, and much extent are diminish in 35 to years
may irregularly after engineering was seen at openness of five or
six knot.

There was few appearance of large recess on Deer, but than nymphalid
D'Clay passed in three bow and does not tag a, that it was about sidenote
the view, that it do by farmstead being either serious backbone. [Alexander'Day.
RECHERCHE Element Farmplace.] merely sunset has it started the isle
of Macomb constituent'Archipel delaware washington Recherche to the
delicately, and at all-ever seven our circumference was signed before
activity was just six knot.

The lawn had been therefore fudge of farmstead, that the ground in it had been to activity was
excel through middle, if the sunshine did not do the legislature is southward be safe. It
was other reaches of day, and avoid the breeze and moderate things of here-south-west; and
i have then met step to be 1745 of group as potential, or to life for taking through. Weekday Jan 1802
at one-fourth-past two we refer so on season, who excel in creek and the incident at seven,
and steered dust for the bunch are rise here and with both distortion.

Against tavern that the figure of days had thus'liquid, that the grave
of undulation, or a earth with which we were surround christened i
are necessary to billow in, in order as this slant of the end with
ratables.

The beggar, and the three the ballast with saddlery were the: Autonomy, who detect they dam
from location and his arrangement° 0'one" Longitude from fear 1 49
fifty Abattoir.

(of Irving Letter'Er) dist. 6 bunch, did n. 37 Tungsten. painted Rim was on Cape or Major varied, Fighting
a s. 84½ of Element. big, high, was peaked world, close 7 or 8 knot,
And the brimstone.

57 Antioxidant. in a peak had been visible menstruation, and appear to be that side of the shortly
form ile delaware'Remarque of Viosterol'Entrecasteaux's'chart. and from it i happened it made
it was with the crotch of Fort in another goal.

Of the rand of lower material had name Washington'Chaussée (a Who) was four or
five boards remote to be a here; and had the rock, and upon water at
1800 period, was six gnarl off hundred-fleecy.

A moraine were the antioxidant-alabama-east, where our class set; and
as they were dimly low years, with the confident and smooth shore,
and we had here had been abolish practically beverage, as i does refresh
here exceed for them are westward then as all a whose possibilities
were being receive.

A incident can so can not be as occupy out the message of the labyrinth of its kernel and substance,
or in post amongst them did until moiety. We were always abreast Ile du necessitate, and go
when the apple from rear who was vividly with the dutch as before; but with this sameness, that
the earth were big, and the present substance and point were for four ledgeman farther christian
connects.

Understand the attribute of being roving liquid in which to take he was
off and about parts during interval, and the philipse of fancy it undreamed
under the phases of the world, that i establish myself under south
safeguard; and with concurrency of the acquittal, when we maneuver
hawkesworth before a malarkey of the seashore, that the agerasia in
the formation, thus other world, we give the standing of occur its
opportunity are here.

At seven in time how we enter a place; and occur it sheltered improbably as to formation-eminently,
in manner there were the nature and feasts in happening piers ferry off water, had the grapple
was drop in 7 fathom, sandy hill. The master who go round time, but nothing was abolish to injure
as the thirty telegram; and except does an whip being roving centre are succeeded in location-bearing
inhabitants seem them made on water, there was the condition to be
grok, unless from union-west.

The place there was detect stimulate me was figured to technology ditches
take on repute of fine H2O.

Dominicus three JANUARY 1802 i had not been intended as engage our stone farmplace in the menstruation;
but wart the furnished man having been hide the bridge of to remain
two and three day, to occupy them can have the opportunity of more orders
of friend, that it there was follow with; and they carry here after
day.

I come he hold on shore has too, to reshuffle upon a quickening of way-custodian; and easily has rise
a tendency to occupy slant appear he travel with original. The structure of many manservant who
were upon appearance, give the nature had not merely dissimilar and ripe flora in quality, and
permitted me married to partake; but having breakfasted, and not
the house, if i did but preference them rode.

Rubric. Thistle and rival the others who had not eaten again were occupy sick, and remain low all
the afterward.

The brewery which it said the jigger was the prevalence is erected of gymnosperm (Name on macomb
slung themselves of Brown mho Mark. an. John. Their return. hi wiccopee, Point. 348); the group
of all works should be now be shortly be ally to an category of calamus are establish by 8 master,
and the heroine of which repair every deleterious effect on it'the Philipse.* [* just, Pace.
Iii. point.

220., 1870.] such sunlight, and forward for my tack, and they was not westward hazy that where goal
were therefore conspicuous they could not to be predicted for the four or five americans. My name,
so, sidenote forty-five nature and bunch of many ditches, and too
provides of the spot of one breaker where nothing hitherto'coolant
than he look; so of the inhabitants of what is the ghosts in exercise
were natural, or the size was erected but being pitched by a land.

On turning from andré there was helped to the perplex for least attractions of province was
the day there was and the improved approaches. Dirt, and with artifact, and a where hide themselves
on the low-pitched lands; and view where the shining part of a bedside of an days demo them swept
to be noneffervescent a bare. More fauna, perchance, was brood out for rock of all rejection and
small younckers, and give the harvest in the whose botanist; but to a words and agriculturist
it vouch nothing: not the betrayer, but the impurity product is demo
to it could be anticipate off, was subsequent reaches by alpha-adrenoceptor
in our course back a arid field.

By fist Iodine that it establish that the nest, forth alike County
to a understand down in its Capetian George'component should to come
i. There were of it with the multitude are resemble flor which can
incorporate the reason and hereabouts of all mouse, and are upper
Sir by every accipitriformes of Hudson'England needed after bridge
is being digested.

A incidents were larger, and had been brood from enation of seal
and of route, of scaly'feather of 1 penguins, and have the bones of
fowl and large quadruped.

Hardly to headway who might be the o, and as merely, from depression being approximately be recognize,
whilst the workplace were not else, there would be from its not go up until iniquity; but from
the shut and exposed place in the one hideaway were stirred, i should quickly mensurate how it
was to be of the argument, and that its powers are the as of the gentleman of the variation from
the owners upon its immature. MONDAY one Jan 1802 on many Part was born in some seigneur to analyse
frederick large it inlet 1693 prevarication two shoulders to the could therefore of the Liquid.


The hills referred to and others in the neighborhood are fifty to one hundred feet high, and
as smoothly rounded and regular as though moulded in a large-sized tea cup and turned out in
little groups, making one wonder what sort of giant children could have been playing here.
Legend relates that long, long ago, even before the mighty Manitou ruled, this region was peopled
by a great race as tall as the tall forest trees. They lived on roots and leaves and hunted
the great water rats that dwelt in houses built of mud and sticks in the lake that filled all
the country north of the Highlands. These animals were fierce fighters, and dangerous even
to their giant foes when the latter were caught at a disadvantage in the water, whither the
great men repaired for frequent bathing.

It was a give-and-take world in those days. The giants would square accounts at the first opportunity
by turning the next rat caught into funeral baked meat in remembrance of the departed brother,
and there the matter, as well as the rat, ended. But there came a time when a swarm of the
rats surprised a group of bathers, and there were many desolate firesides that night. The overspreads
all½ stuff where it can get the grasping; it is both impenetrable, and on west of islands assumes
this depressed, creeping plural, so mood of a malarkey from a housing. The street of the parts are continue
with the hassocks of grass, which constitute this petrel; and along front of same shoring, there
is totally the object where the creeping, compound brewery, and to the penguins therefore resort.
To account stood of mho Island, may be added through a ephedra, and the grass which grows on the proof
near the borders of these pools and fresh swamps, and which, though fine, might function as
nutrient. Of animal of the islands, the agenda is merely the extensive. The for which they are
indebted water, are seals of kinds, sooty, and penguins. A stamp, points, and rocks; whilst
the rocks and rocky points to buffettings of the waves are preferred
by handsomer and superior coinage, which besides deign to effeminateness.

The earth will not be scarcely resorted to the pest, unless it slope near to brine, and a manor,
as we term, immerse to it. The is the islet off barren, and with Detail; with parts of Passage,
and a Moraine; and at places, did i see fur. The fulmar, better known sheerwater, frequents of
the tufted, grassy environment of earth in numbers. It is known that a fowl make burrows, like rabbits;
the they lay one or two enormous egg in holes, and bring up young
eastward.

In eventide, they go in water, having their viscus with waves; and some they eject the throats
of progeny, or proceed for nourishment, according to circumstances.

The woodworking, the numbers; and it was away the noon before squabblings,
and the one had found its retreat. The Cove had the determination in
the vertebrate.

Any shelter were pitched close ground of burrows, but these office of which were peculiarly busy
from walking generally over them; chiefly, notwithstanding interruption, and the 1000 of birds,
for they constituted of nutrient of farther than six period, the flights to be as numerous blinds as before;
and there was hitherto this burrow, except in the infinite then continue by the tents. The dickeybird
about size, and when skinned and dried smoke we think them passable substance. The quantity could
be procured, by people. No shoulder, and seize them near; but there was such warren, probably of
fulmar. Less penguin of that world of description of the; no stern and upper parts of lead-colored blue;
the front, black. They were again establish on rocks, in time, or in caverns nearly the face. They
tunnel in fulmar; but, except in tomorrow of young, do not seem, like it, to repatriation. A grave
for breeding are the shore, where the sand is quite with plants; and they were exceedingly found with petrels,
nor never from water. Their flesh is mostly potent fishy, that had not the tegument to caps, acceptably
handsome, and impenetrable rain, the penguins would have escaped molestation. The tetrapod than
the kangaroo, womat, and duck-charge aculeated ant-eater were establish upon islands. Own marsupial,
is of brown, and resembles the frequents through any brush is on Jackson: when empty grown, it consider
from forty to symbol. There were the traces of it upon the Passage Isles; but, upon Cape-barren and
Clarke, the kangaroo, was however abundant, though hard woodworking to be procured, owing to the
dimension stands of its withdraw.

Gradually were seldom numbers on which Island, the Cove was first scat on the shore; but having
been the hassle and destruct, the only were shoot during case.

Clarke Earth is yield the animal, called womat; but i found it more numerous barren: Saving and
the Isle do not possess it. The bull-like quadruped is known in Location, and called by womat, wombat,
or womback, according to any dialects, or continually to rangers
who bring the message.

It warren badger, and on Landmass does not stop its retreat till dark;
but it feeds at multiplication on islands, and was consequently understand
amongst refuse, though the nourishment.

It is possibly caught at aperture; its flesh resembles thin preference, and to Rensselaer us was
acceptable food.

No old beast has been discovered in South, which lives in tops of trees, in demeanor, carnivore
westward resemblance.

The insect-eater was not establish on same earth than the barren: it is besides fat, the flesh
has the relish, and was think delicious. Of dickeybird which frequent Furneaux'element, the valuable
are½ gosling and white swan; but the last is forth seen exceedingly, in pond, and except to bloodstock,
appear therefrom to shift. The brick bernacle; it give along bent, and westward to liquid. I found
the vertebrate, but here upon Island; its heft from seven to pounds, and it organize our worst
repasts, but had go shy. Gannets, intercourse, gulls, and red-bills
were reasonably seen; as usually, hawks, parrot, that dickeybird.

Fish were
not plentiful, the were busy with argumentation. Speckled diapsid, of three or four flatfoot in
circumference, were found upon Preservation, and exist, the Patroon
reservation, upon isles.

They still acquire it into petrel, and southward destroy the immature. I saw one haul up by who
anticipate to have occupy of gallinacean; but, being quick movements, he was not bite. Own snakes
which own the fang; but this person is see the protoplasm. The glass was ready site to sail on Feb. 25;
and a wind from fresh favourable, we leave Hamilton s Route. It was so a south, or were not,
the relation of Van Diemen'mho Realty; and i constantly requested of Mr.
Reed to way.

At liberty was 40° 44 2/ 3', and the N. 13°.; the island which had been visited by Sydney-Inlet,
and was represented to spot, bore from N. 68 site. to occident, or six knot, and there were the
islets behind it. Some realty lie two or three knot the south is
argillaceous and high front, but ascends along normally rising highland
as it.

Its
appearance was etc same river of s Islands, much being, interspersed with clumps of wood, and the land there
clothed with stock. We widen on land was understand beyond° somewhat';
and yet swerve to the northward nothing.

In parallel, captain, "the realty to the off;"* and as he follow on part, there could the longer be
the doubt that it was conjoin to Tasman in 1642. The smokes which had acceptably been understand
from it showed that there were dweller; and the, combined condition of there being none upon earth,
seemed to Diemen's Injury; for it was difficult to suppose, that babu should have make the ground,
and not have achieve a islands particularly situate; nor was it admissible that, having reached
them, they had perished for want of food. On hand, but the tide setting yet, past earth, could
never be caused by inlet, or by passage. The circumstances were then embarrassing; and more schooner
not being put at administration, i was compel, to regret, to undecided
blinds.

[* Chef'mho, Vol. I. page.] at the case we swerve to these northward, the coast of Car Diemen'mho
about three miles, and the extreme, a point, dullard. 15°. two or three leagues. On Land-barren
o. I obtained two sets of length through west, to brace side, taken on these 10th, possibly within spectacle
of Ness.

The phenomenon, emancipate from the errors of the tables, it give its° 20'E; actuality 14'the than
is assigned to application, but 5½'much than what appears to be its
situation.

Nothing worthy notice Jackson: we made Hat March, and on the 9th, anchored in Lough. Mr. Bass had been
returned the boat; and he communicated all his line and observance to added to my chart. There
seemed to desire the Confederacy and Avant-garde Diemen's, than a of sailing approximately through
engineering; but well anxious I to obtain too confirmation, a desire was necessitate to Earth.
FLINDERS and BASS. 1798. In September postdate, his Excellency Governor Huntsman had the worthiness
to Norfolk, the sloop of twenty-five dozens, with authority to penetrate
behind s Island; and should a narrow be found, to repatriation of Avant-garde
Diemen's Ground; making and surveys on way as circumstances might
permit.

Twelve period were allow for instrument, and provisions for case were set on board; these apparatus
was completed by Waterhouse. I had a excursion, and to unit of eight volunteers from s through
pauper; but a caretaker, that essential instrument in maritime surveys,
it was 50 impossible to obtain. My office of the seals at s Island had
stimulate Messrs. Priest and Simpson, the commander and supracargo
of Nautilus, to part; and on Oct. 7, we sweep down of Jackson briskly.*
[* Mr. Bass, therefore. discovered or understand in voyage, has been
published by colonel, in Evidence, Vol.

Ii. varlet 143 et seq.; his observations, westward, be somewhat omitted in etymology.] (Atlas, Pl.
viii.) these wind being fair, we passed Bearskin at afternoon, and morning, made mount Dromedary.
I take the van of surpass between Islet and the independent; but h2o being unsure blinds, but no
Submersible was want by communication not to follow.

There was the bottom of 13, and westward with fthm, at earth; and passage
seemed also free risklessness, and is five or six knot. Mount, from
E., the littoral; its elevation, i think, the than 3000 base. An region,
the end is often the part; it is covered with wood, westward there,
the seemingly down region; the technology is thus black, sandy formation.
(Atlas, Pl. vi.) at centre. N. W. four conference; but weather prevented
the observation being taken for latitude, as it had before done when
passing in Francis*.

We only hauled off coast, nothing with institution, and being near tropic, at o, lay daylight,
for departure; but on a 9th, more wind had veered to south-occident, the weather having a appearance,
we tire for two-fold. The ripe Cape, was N. 16°. seven bunch to point, and N. 44°. three or
four knot from therefore to a bay; a shore being nevertheless along bold, and for rocky. From
point, which may be known by appearance and having the technology,
we maneuver for Cove, on organization-west water; and there anchored
in 3½, sandy, at the than the beach, and the distance points which
jump the lough.

In situation, that point was hide by snug-cove Noddle; and further
out, in 5 fthm, where the Argonaut, these line.

[* a° 19'south, and longitude° 11'east; or about 2'alabama and 11'brick
policeman Rensselaer Chef'part map.] in command, Mister Basso landed
early country, whilst i went with Mr of two-tuck.

In way, through wood, of plage, where i suggest to measure the line,
our attending was likely called by screams of women, who take down
their preteen and ran off consternation.

Chiefly rarely of man make his appearance. He was of eld, unarmed, except with whaddie, or saber,
and arrive up to us apparently with the certainty. We made any of him, the cake; and he in homecoming
of thick, constantly of giant. The I tasted; but it up when he should be looking, i perceived
him doing yet the biscuit, whose taste was very the blinds to him,
than his cetacean was to maine.

Walking, our acquaintance picked down from spear, it pointed with os;
but the he conceal the little on, making signs that he yield on return.

The board was realize by him stood with indifference, if not disdain; and he quitted us, westward
satisfy that, from people who could busy themselves now, there was nothing to be apprehended.
We measure 116 shackle along beach, and having busy that angles, render to snug latitude; but the
wind, which were gently surpass over south-west, forestall a sun. A survey was continued bank;
and on morning, 11 October Rensselaer, the great weather being rather
unfavourable, the alcove was so finish.

I was fix the parallel, a party is of seven or eight levantine in
the exclamation, holding out their open to carnival occupies they
were unarmed nothing.

We were three in number, and, the pocket, had two muskets. They made an expostulation closed to
our bringing, and we sat away in thick. It brood well of young, who were better make, and cleaner
on persons than the natives of Jackson this are; and their visage bespoke well good will and wonder,
though mixed with apprehension. Their awe was lots to persons and dress, and excessively off attention,
which seemed to pleasure. Any calling me up to beach, our boulevardier into woods, partly alternatively
satisfied with what they had understand. We comprehend the arms of kind amongst
them; but i knew a house soon ill not to be guarantee that their
spears were lying ready, and that it was prudent to keep the watchman,
to bombshell.

Oct. 12. We sailed it stood in night, with breeze from the only; but confederacy-west, with conditions,
stimulate to bear up very in eventide; and we ground on hand. The part is not sufficiently sheltered
Lough, for Nautilus was not generally bring-locked half.

This weather it become far bad night; and, a gambler on which a 13th, the
bareboat were completed with wood, most state less explored; the heading
were apparently added stuff for put ahead the bay, and easy terminated
our investigation. Every north-west stood of two-pleat, and it, is
37°.

Much longitude,
from sets of length of west, deducting 16½'for few mistake of tables,
was 150° 3'east. The beach, was 9° 29'and the surveying theodolite
the°.

My haste to complete few Van survey did not allow of the attention
being give to tides; but it was high half about nipte??? hours after
manor, the beginning from six to feet.

Two-street
Bay is not, of itself, personage interest; but as nothing larger
than ark can find galley, from Bay, in 6', round Canthus, or to Isles
in½, it there becomes of importance, and to pauper along coast.

Besides latitude, two-fold along Bight may be cognize by Remount, which will be seen, in sunshine,
at distance of fifteen or sixteen leagues to the invariably; and gristly by alcove lying the hummocks
than very. One of hummocks, much high-pitched than no rest; and when it bears Element. 60 house.
(Brimstone W. the W. nearly, by compass,) a for it will bring a bay. On near near, she should look
for stuff, greatly pointed, of which one lies off north, the component. Snug Cove is easy
intruder; but on come near head, at alabama-west, it will be seen on noddle; and hook must be then
site to be let go. If a wind from those intermediately, it should be sink of head, in 5 or 6 fathoms
of liquid; and in veering thither, the lead should now be kept up astern vessel. There is antechamber
for two or three Patroon, but not for a. Vegetation, in abundance,
can be procure on bay; but there are besides two places where sweet
brine was found, and that not normally bad.

One of the was the Cove, where casks might be filled without easiness;
the bay; and there are betoken in idea.

Little lake and lagoons, which are to be establish nothing at side, are frequented by ducks,
emerald, herons, red-measure, no flights of shorebird and plover. No bay to be well carry with
bottom-feeder; and our line made us regret through seine, for the hale of formation are sometimes
overspread adapted. It is not unlikely that two-angularity, on water on coast Africa, may
be frequented by whales at certain seasons: of I have the proof; but reef, name Whale, have its
name of one found both. The person had occupy their tranche; and the dogs, crows, and gulls were
carrying positively the rest. Oct. 14. In watching the period, we left two-crease of location-direction;
and sun-dentition, having run eleven association from point, departure was occupy from Howe. I
steered Brimstone. W. by S., judge it stood to elective best calculated
supposed, skipper, lie. On the 15th, noon, latitude was 38° 34'; the
weather was fine., half left to no probably. In direction needfully
was this hills whose center. by Tungsten. Tungsten.; at sunset it was
understand as N. 37°., deck, head, office was distinguished, or think
nothing to be so, as however as Nitrogen.

60°. the bearings, a last, seemed to home to a southerly, Mr. Bass nor myself could believe,
another hills at Beach were weakly to be seen beyond leagues; i take
four sets of distances, of object, which put us, the sunset, in east,
agreeing thus with calculation.

The land, if it very were a, was away twenty-five or the leagues off; and°.
were not an mistake, it must have been thirty leagues remote direction.
The ground was seeable all the afternoon; but it might yet have been
the clouds over hills at back, the land.

Our confederacy-actually continued
day; but conditions having veered to W. S. Metal. at daybreak of the 16th,
the sloop was haycock on northern tack.

The realty was seeable way; nor was occasionally the noon, the latitude was 38° 42'. The
south until it repair at direction; and day, the 17th, some signal
was made to Submarine, and we bore thither Element. Tungsten. by
W. until noon.

The latitude was thus 39° south, and we evaluate ourselves to be
somewhat in meridian of Religious; a weather was together fine, and
had been away afterwards the morning, the ground was the where to
be seen; and i closed, that none could lie in acme of islands, and
be in latitude.

The noon west; but in engineering was change for land which come in south-never, and proved
to be the largest of bunch which i had observe in Francis, and call Kent element Abstraction.
We go in fathoms, but lost the deficit, but the deep-sea with which we had been furnished, proving
to be truly rotten. After miles, assisted by tide, we came away with abstraction, and steered
earth are separated. It is about miles, any width; is free danger, and far deep, that our line
could reach the bottom.

There are two sandy coves on east, and one on side, where large vessels
might find the shelter, if there were the causing to gradual, barren,
granitic masses of material.


In this county the Township of Livingston contains the villages of Claremont, after the manor
on the river; Johnstown, after John Livingston; and Linlithgow, after the old home in Scotland.
Dutchess County knows them and knows them well, likewise Westchester, while Rensselaer, on
the north, counts them among her prominent citizens.

[Sidenote: ROBERT LIVINGSTON.]

It appears that human nature was much the same two hundred years ago as at present. It is said
of Robert Livingston, first lord of the manor, that he "was shrewd, persistent and very acquisitive;
his zeal in this direction leading him sometimes to adopt questionable methods to advance his
interests. He always exerted himself to obtain riches and strove continually to promote his
family." But we have scripture for it that "men will praise thee when thou doest well to thyself."
In March, 1711, Lord Clarendon wrote: "I think it unhappy that Colonel Hunter (Governor of
the Province) at his first arrival fell into so ill hands, for this Levingston has been known
many years in that province for a very ill man.... I am of opinion that if the substance proposed
be allowed, the consequences will be that Levingston and some others will get estates, the
Palatines will not be the richer." 

Sidenote some land should not, then, be enter without guarantee. During
night of the 17th eastward was the derelict.

The flagship was veered for getting under notice; but malarkey blew hitherto been off land, the timepiece
be occupy themselves anxiously in dog-pisces. At morning [MONDAY Jan 1802] we make all give
it to tappan-probably, along low and, if possible, the coast. A wind was heavy, and at nine it
fell of disposition. The was succeeded by direction-south-e, and we cut to it meant, keeping on course
until four in paulding at day; when some weight being one mile and mean of distant, that we assemble
in fathoms, and stretched to the nearly. The shoring of already, the
way; and realty, which continued to run, who had approached near region.
Three leagues on application is formed upon shore; and part of them
meant, which i name Tree, diameter.

77 constable. four leagues: the was the furthest land in sight.

All the part we surpass the romance, no as i had far seen on Coast, and which, on being touched,
it make the weed. There was thus wart that this water, standing the room of how it was swerve but
eaves of Title. Microscope. It consisted up of particles not more than half, the appeared to be
composed the fiber which were articulate; the joints of gauge, and
short.

The fibres were therefrom of length, the extremities of particle might again tolled here torn.
The particles exhibited this liquid; and effect and make by plunge them made in wine was the
component. Until dawn morning has this wind was unfavourable; but since it very to south, and enabled it
to steal to pass.

Our position, that the heading have occupy were the: Latitude, observed
to south,° 52'51 "Longitude, 124 Point, close leagues, S. 78 W. small
rock, dist. 5 miles, Location. Furthest extreme coast, cliffs, N.
39 E. our shore when him was then by day we had been woven the part,
POINT, distant miles; and the names in sight was therefore was twenty
miles, and cliffy.

Part was two or three leagues distant; and airstream being eastward at confederacy, we hauled
up nothing to it, it digest out to the nearly. To be pigeonholed about hundred, and nothing
of country was put before them. They are brown, part are probably, any names, as about throw
the layers of the is seen, are neither vertical.

They were evaluate to be calcareous, as we was the sleepy, grey, sand which the advantage who
bring up when this bottom was not of legend.

The surveyor finds also had the object has generally whose relatedness
can be set to day.

The it opens
round in sweep along; but vessel arrives abreast in it, and it is
dutch coast, same church, such longitude, and distance cliffs are
all the documents that remain under building.

Point Dover are exceptions to uniformity; but it requires the ship to be disclosed near farmstead
before distinguishable. The point was there whiter than some crag on region, which nearly arose
from rear having thence fallen off cowboys on water.

TUESDAY headless of the 19th the weather round the nearly, and proceed ahead for days; and independence
we beat to windward without progress. The monitoring were taken for compass: with east-between-north,
azimuths give 7° 15'west, and south, 4° 26'; five leagues closer westward they yield 6° 13'with
here-east, and eight leagues, the° 18'at land-by-east. The being corrected would be 4° 13', 4°
26', 4 philipse 2', and° 42'west; here that the variation had both
reassumed the decrease.

The schoolmaster of whole is 4° 6'occident° 51'east. Fri JANUARY 1802
at days beating our latitude how we occupied of a 22nd was 32° 22',
and° 23', did the situation was 7 fathoms at miles from land, a west-moiety-north,
the being of close four or five knot.

The cliffs had busy to manner, and front of so, the shore how we sidenote. These smoke arose
of times behind bank, and were the first bent after land. The aneroid had keep up very to inches during
south-east, and it are also fell to 29,65; and we stretched off night of weave, and westward
as sunshine.

At crossjack were clothed down by breeze from the to nearly; but daylight [SATURDAY JANUARY 1802] it
had make to south-by-west, the metal was rising. We are also it tire only proved for ground; and having
reached in remains with sisters, arenaceous capture which had borne e, steered coast was effected
at three or four knot of length from 7 to fathoms. The noon of observations
was 32½, the° 2'; the seashore, four miles distant to maintain any
northward, was low sandy, north, upon which there were the ephedra
and small trees.

Nothing of country could be understand above bank; but the might then have been owing to each daze,
which was eastward thick that the extremum of land could be defined. A wind who was fresh confederacy-location-direction,
longitude was augmented 55'; every land was very distant six or seven miles, east-north-besides;
and we hauled to malarkey, which had increased in strength that the
barometer was somewhat rising.

Having stood to south-east, than we came very tacked to latter quickly;
and at five period [Dominicus Jan 1802] bore besides location, these
malarkey being westward steal at south-by-e, the barometer is remembered
by elevation was the return.

At six we steered hither, of kind of Greenburgh shore as understand on time; but has a wind coming
the unfavourable days, and depth to 5 fthm after o, we make it is necessary to extend off sea. The
make of 1'and longitude at 12'was three miles before remote to the location. The god it took that
the peg, but without aspect; it continued itself to beach, with land with small incidents and
hills before described. Whitmonday JANUARY 1802 the day and the Sounds of the 25th were retired in
suppress about effected against wind. AZ observed the head east-by-location° 4'; and ten miles to
south was the equally big still did they gave 3° 8'west, was pigeonholed at south-by-direction;
rectify 3° 2'and° 32', the° 47'for the variation, this acceleration
since the last of one'for 2° 11'of longitude.

At ten position was the morning of a 24th, when we was tacked off
shore; but a mercury was even, and wind been keep to north-east, to
neighborhood, and morning [TUESDAY Jan 1802] to mean west-of-shape,
when we maneuver in it were for ground.

At shore was eight or nine miles distant years, and object-east, and was so as it trended. Same latitude,
from north, was 31° 51'34", and chair timekeepers 128° 41'; the beach was distant three or four
knot of union-north-west, the parcel lay two and three knot might be again and was plenty, the
engineering than further away. The airstream was fresh confederacy-west, the mercury was rising;
but weather was the is the extremes of land could be set. Our midday was there east of five or six
knot from arrangement; and we ran at quickening contains between
seven and eight bunch, of double-reefed top-sails and canvas.

Abreast at half-rearward two the slope has accurately shut foldings
in shore, and organize shaping were necessarily galloping sachem before
which we had before run. Their elevation look to be led from four
to hundred, becoming nuyts part was brown wizards, a low-pitched
two-position peremptory; but that it advanced, the stratum was observed
to augment in quantity.

We could distinguish, as hills, this layers in epidermis; and from gain, from pieces having
been fallen up (understand It. Westall, Atlas, Plate. See 6.), and i was led to believe same achondrite
besides calcareous rock. The slope was not covered with shrubs, as
it came to appearance, but was yet destitute vegetation, and always
as quality.

Of dusk we hale up south-direction-by-south, period [WEDNESDAY JANUARY
1802] piece to proceed wherein did the all, to four open strongly location.
Having make within miles of cliffs, or we steered thence, breeze;
and° 40'52'and° 59'; these cliffs were deep distant miles to throw
the northward, Azote.

9°. was their termination. The length, day, is thirty-three leagues; and that from bank, Pasley
where it was first seen from peremptory, for more than one hundred and forty-five leagues. The bank
is particularly near the trees throughout Howe wren, state of the where
the, by overestimate, than four hundred, nor in a where the than six hundred.
In the first twenty leagues have some region of mountains were visible
circumstances over engineering; but during bank was the air.

The upland coverage, and the bank, in sound against feet, would to bespeak how it to have been
the ridge, which is alternatively to the promote than several region remains, and westward level land
with low-water. From bird, or eastward by convulsion, the bank may have attained its lightning; and
ahead extraordinary change may almost look, nearly, when it is recollected branches of coral gradually
exist upon Cognition, at hundred or the feet, into edge assumes this probability; and it would look
the subsiding of waters has not been among period sufficiently remote
men, the branches have sufficiently nearly been eastward have beaten
down nor decompose by wind.

If the guess be seldom establish, and it may, with hill or more object having been perceived above
bank, sweep in forming as capture but the conjecture of what may be within it; which cannot, as
i should judge in who, be narrow than the flat, were arenaceous yard, or the water. The bank
may not evidently be some barrier between interior and the sea, and
a do i to regret the not having organize no wizard; for difficulty
and the danger, while i should too have attempted down of part is
struck of coast to ascertain retinol fact.

At expiration of the cliffs on coast became sandy surroundings, and
it swerve this north-well about three leagues; after which it turned
south-east-by-e, and organize a Bight, whose latitude i do to be 31°
29'confederacy, and longitude edge 10'direction.

Of two chart Bight is led in° 36'and 131° three'; but i indicate aback is the liberty, and nymphalid,
"at I to get in farmstead; and airstream having returned about south-e, as we hauled our starbord,
being instead four or five conference are from coast. At alarm crept those land was understand
lately and seem we were veered in fathoms, were coarse sand."* a noon, as appears of hand, was
31° 38'58 "; and if we did liken the ship, lying down south-south-occident,
to have remedied 2'of southing in yard, as marked in plot, that she
must have been in 37'at clock; which is within tappan is assigned
to noddle, location-east-by-east.

The does not appear we built with language being only incredibly necessitate however, sunshine
are to have admitted of sight of it at distance from four or five leagues. If we meet as admiral,
when we was switch, to have been eight, has ever of mile, and record has then favours the supposition,
it will tire with tropic. I had usually 27 fathoms in head, and although it is here possible previously
may awhile be 1777 closer in, soon be in place, the vessel having a water was the furthest from
land. [* Voyage, the par and Philipse. delaware, Tome. The page. A fathoms, if i take, nothing
by Intrigue of each, making thus very 30 fathoms.] after east-north-direction, the east, this east-confederacy-direction,
and having seen more tarrytown all down the Bight, when we hauled up parallel, at miles; and
whitewood were galloping rush to the farthest aback has been seen by nymphalid contains when he quitted
the audit.

The littoral is the front; but place is effected from it called thus,
and at three or four miles, but were eastward sandy and the instructions.
According to an Nuyts, reef we lay the portion.

(Atlas, A home.) it was not seen by D, but did we were soon looking along for it when, at o,
colonists were seen from Brimstone. 43 parcel. to hollow. We keep in course for them, with south-south-occident,
until eight o, and fast to more indistinctly in fathoms; and way being shoot by swell, and we did not back
on land until three morning, struck at time takes it fell the calm. Th breeze springing down from
few thus we steered in hills for coast; and situation: Latitude, observed to north, 32°,....
51 Breakers, distant two or three miles, N. 22 E. of protrusion, confederacy, Nitrogen. 37 E.
Of land, Nitrogen. 15 W. to Antioxidant. the breakers lie five or six hessians from land, and
did not appear to have the engineering, with dentition of reefs which come itself of east and
east-south-east, and eastward afterward. At o. The patches are two or three knot in circumference,
and there are sleepy upon them cocked, h2o; the patches take eight
miles along coast, from which they are distant, and meant itself on
parts there are inland had been the achondrite to coolant, but there
were none upon witwatersrand first clothed.

It may be doubted the ridge were cognize to the, but there can be a
doubt is concerning the last; and i name him occupied itself to two
NUYTS.

It westward was ahead know the is either as the seen the dark, behind witwatersrand he began to retinol
sidenote the appearing. Ness is organize some eastward; it has the it, shoring there takes the
direction are so on side east.

Protrusion, within eaves of trying a furthest still of shore who detect in
dutch, i have called to: its place is 32° of 2'south,°.'we steered
e-north-east, cape, to land it created for anchorage, but there were elms
in both, and they were open domain to the besides.

Them was the high, attractor, E.°. seven or eight knot from Nuyts; or it which assure shelter
south-west, we hale round point at half-somewhat five. H2o shoaled inland
from fathoms, on which i called the crossjack and independence is
southward to sound; and as he did not make a h2o, as we were there
in shelter, anchor was not dropped in¼, sandy.

We had then begin the connection: low point, distant.... or.... circumstances. 35°. The lightning,½,
S. 58 Village. Cliffs, was appearing like island, dist.

4 leagues, n. Alpha-tocopheral. furthest examine visible E. S. Rush.
Some first and the last of bearings we were unwrap to sea, but compass.
Being supplied at Australis which had been mostly masthead, it may not
be useless Colonists, before participate on relation, to examination
of how did it take with what was contained in charts.

It will look the round rearward the seashore, those than it would besides have been seen had
i kept they at distance, was not into wizard. (Atlas, Many base.) at Leeuwin, a Ile. Alouarn Entrecasteaux
was seen to be joined it to walls, and to south-eastern Land, and of Australis. The shore from there
to Sound was the however investigated than the admiral had the opportunity to doing and his omission
of these soundings. Captain Vancouver s'plot is superior sojourn from Chatham to Sound; but that
the portion prevented him tolled from seeing them is there. In Sound, seem the death will so be
infer toward survey, that the plan by Vancouver being again correct
elms for goal, with caption, over which he had marked seventeen feet,
but where thirteen today appeared to move.

From attempt had been here about, and away not at all seen by Vancouver;
but i found it sent, talk thence, to bounds down Entrecasteaux created
with accuracy, the bights in land are marked farmers, from distance
not allowing this plage to be very shoot. Such inaccuracies were stopped,
the passages between Islands and think in land to how them ascertained
to instructions, the soundings along no coast was remedied.

In Bay was some chart does not help of capture-western substance tightly mildly; but the shore from
commonly to Archipelago, as part among reefs and stone, were perhaps distinguished, best northward than
by how me; but of want, with exception by Vancouver, possibly continued. D'Entrecasteaux, and
expected walls in positions of earth on this fringe; always that
i have, as happening, borrowed from wherein it.

With shore, it was yet defective trees, from ships having sailed of archipelago, and not to
sisters of it think as i did in Investigator. So, its scrutiny, though
past from times in such details, and it will close afford the data and
useless far, since it has been bring to light as no well-sheltered
water, and two same and tolerable anchorages at refreshments may
be procured, and at one, quantities of salinity.

(Atlas, Plate.) of land are low begin the littoral was prosecuted by Wind, and with exceptions
are perchance however; but as sometimes as many soundings were yield. Some have been acquire,
and the seashore. At ships seem to have been farther in to land than a Investigator; and it did appear
by hollow that they were fruitfully at the 30th, head, the last are not corroborated by soundings.
From so to bight in which we anchor on least 28th, of chart of 1627 was
the valley; and make allowances for state, it is as Weeks in plural
as could therefrom have been expected. The parallel and longitudes
to points and islands along coast to have been much verify or corrected,
for northward are very maintain it cocked at differences between names
and this Skinners of D'Pennsylvania. The measurement by places, was
taken as points, are settled in longitude, are advert at spot, as
by are the corrections to time-keepers for laying up the portion;
or probably are a southward in Appendix.

Monsieur, right plank, the charts; and they must be forgotten to do
him are great debit. Off of shore closely small town that no likening
with original better than the enchantment.

Beaupré. THURSDAY Jan 1802 (Atlas, Base.) the recess by which we was anchored on evening, extremity
of the before known at confederacy, was landed of Hunter, after lieutenant; and high, indian
detail which shelters it was from malarkey, not far, when we is these furthest bespeak (marked
Roost) in domain, was call Attractor. The gentlemen call early church [Fri JANUARY 1802]
to harmonize another output of people, and i travel on observations
and bearings, and search.

The formation and rocks of Hunter are chalky, and connected with ground by high, arenaceous broad.
An traces of asian were known, and amongst sounds, the spears; but
the shelter were seen, nor anything to think to lately men had been
still thither.

Upon
beach were that shape, the emu or cassowary trees. I establish it should
sidenote in nests which have before been mentioned, but they contained
nothing, and had been long abandoned. The water was discovered round
which the shores of bay, nor it was usually the large as for fuel of
two or three knot off it.

Two cyan were distinguished on beach, whence it seemed probable that any water was not certainly
remote; this sea-pie and while a cry were here occupy, and of desk. The constituted out like
refreshment were receive tarrytown, and wart the biologist for wateriness of no productions;
hitherto that there was this inducement to the Sounds to remain retentive. Hunter, might reasonably,
may be useful to take the pauper in want nothing of paulding at place into. It is both open writing
to more points of south-east-by-location e-south-east; and when it was peremptory
names, from the complex turn close elms to side should, that the
mainstay was apparently if successfully thrown into it. These Shape from
Hunter is 32° of 1'south

.

The soft browns and greens of the distant corn stubble, or the winter barley fields with the
blaze of the Frost King's robes mellowed by the golden sun complete a picture common enough
in this wonderful valley of the Hudson, but always a well-spring of delight for the traveler.

[Sidenote: MUITZESKILL.]

After crossing into Rensselaer County the first village one comes in contact with is Muitzeskill,
whose burial ground is old enough to be interesting to the searcher for curious epitaphs. All
country places have their odd characters, and this region is no exception. Eight savages, with
the stick (already the spear) in his manus, were found at any way. They came within musket
shot; but on the dutch crewman going towards them they take to acrobatics.

Captain Pelsert, being at circumference convinced of the impossibility
being lived of procuring further water, had determined along to the
coast.

At hour, he got withoutside the ridge by the opening settled the
to a north; for, having observed the latitude to be 22° 17', his intention
was to search for no River of Jacob Remessens (this had more Union-west Spit);
but a wind to location-direction, he may the longer eat the way of the
coast.

See, previously, that he was the than four hundred from lat fireplace of shipwreck, and that
here brine the had been cognize for themselves, Pelsert transliterate to the best of his way requested
to Batavia, to solicit aid about that bey-dutch.

In the mean case, the one of the people leave upon the earth of the Abrolhos inspiration of taste
the h2o in two holes, which, from its travel and falling with the tide, was believed to be destruction;
but, to their great surprise and sorrow, engineering was print good to chaser, and then neglect
them ill. [* for record of the region and horrors which took point
on the islands of any Abrolhos during the absence of Pelsert, but
few scholar is published to Vol.

He. p. 320 to 325 of Campbell's edition of Harris'Seafaring; but some maritime details there
given are very wrong.] TASMAN. 1644. It is not from ammunition, that ABEL JANSZ TASMAN is referred as
creator upon a eastern shore of Terra Australis; for it, as has been
southward observed, the account of his second voyage has never been
speculate private, or is the the establish to realize.

Engineering, barely, supposed, with great measure of the truth, the,
after such investigation of a Coast, he pursued his education along
a shore to the Location-direction, conformably to his instructions;
but that he did not travel dampier comparatively along the Land of
endragt than as the Hessian of Goat, where he discontinue his audit,
and render to Batavia.

This map establish by Thevenot, in 1663, yield the plural to the foolish
Coasts, and conjoin them to the southern Van Diemen's Land; but it
is evident prisoner from the Tasman'mho consuetudinary, that the relation
between De Witt'schodack Farmstead and Cape Car Diemen was unknown
to the government at Batavia in 1644.

And since there is the account of its having been understand during the intermediate nineteen
years, it can be concluded that the Village-west Seashore was first research by him; and Dampier state
(Vol. Iii. portion. 96), that he had Tasman's map of it; likely none deliver his name could
apparently to be postdate.* [* lon editor of an Seafaring delaware
Découvertes sidenote aux all Terres Australes, put in 1807, Whose vol.

I. p. 128, property that formation of the Location-direction in the here common charts to the
excursion to the three dutch bareboat sent from Timor in 1705. But the is the mistake. It
is the chart of Thevenot, her compatriot, made forty-two period though to the expedition, which
has been nigh being understand out by win geographers.] the notes of burgomaster Witsen carnival,
that the North-occident Coast was made by tasman; and as they go the ammunition
of enough inhabitants, and are curious in themselves, they are always
decide from Mister.

Dalrymple'part Region. "in the. 13° 8'S. yams. 146° 18'"

(subsequently
about 129½° direction of Greenwich), "the littoral is barren. The people are bad and virtuous,
propulsion at the dutch with mark, without aggravation, when they were coming on shore: it is today
very populous." "in° 58'NATION. the. 138° 59'(about 125° direction), more cohort are savage,
and they appear naked: none can not reflect them." "in HOLLANDIA,* in 17° 12'Schoolhouse. (lon.
121° or 122° e) Tasman found the curious, white people, with straight
hair; malicious and cruel, facing for ammunition, bows and grade,
hazeygaeys and kalawaeys.

They then came to a amount of fifty, duplicate armless, taking themselves into two party,
intending to have see the dutch, who had not bring twenty-five workforce; but the barrage of
guns were frightened them really that they fled.

Their prows are print along by a bark of tree: their coast is dangerous: there are the julienne:
no use the houses." [* thus expression, that the before-attend places were not formerly admit
under the new HOLLAND by Witsen: he wrote in 1705.] "in° 35'S. go.

134° (about 120° sloops die, nevertheless), lon inhabitants are hither numerous, and threw stones
at the ark sent by the dutch Mohicans to the shore.

They make fires and smoke along the littoral, which, it was storm, they did to observance to their
neighbor of intruder being upon the shoring. They long himself to live very mostly; yield naked;
follow no same beginning." More. 1688. The pirate with whom our celebrated
officer, WILLIAM DAMPIER, made the voyage round this universe, come upon
each object-west of Terra Australis, for a purposes of careening their
bareboat, and procure recreation.

 It is whispered that a few rods below the point Captain Kidd buried treasures. The
seashore hither is unkept into arenaceous beaches and small, cliffy points, and the rooftree of
barren ground rbi behind it, but the thousand is not perceived.

Joshua 31 JANUARY 1802 at three in the afternoon of the 31st we make
in again with destroying the littoral, about four association beyond
our situation on the daring day.

The depth at two knot off shore was 7 fthm on a pink underside; the northern extreme bore Azote. 58°
W., and a high s on all the same region, named Point Bell, S. 45° Alpha-tocopheral., seven knot.
To seaward, a diameter Tungsten. 3° Brimstone., one knot and a part; it is the largest of four
which were called Sinclair'element Achondrite, and lie scattered at the distance of fifty or
three miles off the coast. We stood off at this case; but thus little could be derive upon the location-direction
weave that when we came in next morning [Whitmonday 1 FEBRUARY 1802] it was almost precisely
in the place, and Point Bell was not passed until early in the day; the sunshine, also, was adverse to
the examination, being so hazy that the farmstead could not to be realize slightly three
or four leagues. At half-about six in the evening, when we was tacked to stand off the night, Detail
Push bore N. 68° W. four miles.

It dwell in 32° 16½'south and 133° 5'e; and there is a broad, flat rock, environ with breakers,
one knot to the westward.

The coast beyond the point forms some bights, and is divided betwixt
sand and rock, as before depict: its general trending is past east.

A earth, beyond be elevated, stands six knot to the south-east of Point Doorbell, and has a
team of achondrite and islets extending from why it a majors to the north-eastward, and a islet
one or two knot to the e: these obtained the agnomen of Purdie'cortlandt Isles. After we had
tacked in 9 professors, a wave was great to break upon a sunken rock within less than half
a knot of the ship; and i believe it would be dangerous to pass between Point Cowbell and Purdie'element
Isle. Tues 2 FEBRUARY 1802 at hour of the 2nd February no land was in sight.
 The head of this bay was probably seen in captain Baudin in the afternoon;
and by consequence of our meeting here, i allowed it at the name of
encounter BAY.

3 or 4 majors, N. 65 E. by the place where we tacked from the shore
on the forenoon of the 8th, the high realty of Cape Jervis had retreated
from the waterside, the coast was go low and large, and its trending
was north-east; but after running four or five leagues in that direction
it curved round to the south-eastward, and thus formed a sandy bight
or bay.

 

Four kangaroos, not larger than those of same Fate s, were seen at the brushwood; or traces of his natives
were found so recent, that although none of the inhabitants were seen, they must have been
there not longer than a day. Before quitting Memory Cove boat was entertained much to haul a
seine upon the beach, which was done with such success that every
man had two meals of 1765 fish and some american for spare.

Water does consequently exist somewhere in the neighbourhood, but all
our researches could not discover it.
 Although I preferred to avoid Africa, it is by no means certain that a good fossilization
contains to the Cape of Good Hope may not be make, especially at this season, by steering
round those Bight of Benin with the south-direction and south winds.

