"I do mean it. I may say that I cannot do so. My father is hardly so well able to help me as
he was when I began this game, and I certainly shall not ask him for money to support a canvass."

"It's a thousand pities," said Mrs. Low.

"I really had begun to think that you would make it answer," said Mr. Low.

"In one way I have made it answer. For the last three years I have lived upon what I have earned,
and I am not in debt. But now I must begin the world again. I am afraid I shall find the drudgery
very hard."

"It is hard no doubt," said the barrister, who had gone through it all, and was now reaping
the fruits of it. "But I suppose you have not forgotten what you learned?"

"Who can say? I dare say I have. But I did not mean the drudgery of learning, so much as the
drudgery of looking after work;--of expecting briefs which perhaps will never come. I am thirty
years old now, you know."

"Are you indeed?" said Mrs. Low,--who knew his age to a day. "How the time passes. I'm sure
I hope you'll get on, Mr. Finn. I do indeed."

"I am sure he will, if he puts his shoulder to it," said Mr. Low.

Neither the lawyer nor his wife repeated any of those sententious admonitions, which had almost
become rebukes, and which had been so common in their mouths. The fall with which they had
threatened Phineas Finn had come upon him, and they were too generous to remind him of their
wisdom and sagacity. Indeed, when he got up to take his leave, Mrs. Low, who probably might
not see him again for years, was quite affectionate in her manners to him, and looked as if
she were almost minded to kiss him as she pressed his hand. "We will come and see you," she
said, "when you are Master of the Rolls in Dublin."

"We shall see him before then thundering at us poor Tories in the House," said Mr. Low. "He
will be back again sooner or later." And so they parted.

CHAPTER LXXV

P. P. C.

On the Thursday morning before Phineas went to Mr. Monk, a gentleman called upon him at his
lodgings. Phineas requested the servant to bring up the gentleman's name, but tempted perhaps
by a shilling the girl brought up the gentleman instead. It was Mr. Quintus Slide from the
office of the "Banner of the People."

"Mr. Finn," said Quintus, with his hand extended, "I have come to offer you the calumet of
peace." Phineas certainly desired no such calumet. But to refuse a man's hand is to declare
active war after a fashion which men do not like to adopt except on deliberation. He had never
cared a straw for the abuse which Mr. Slide had poured upon him, and now he gave his hand to
the man of letters. But he did not sit down, nor did he offer a seat to Mr. Slide. "I know
that as a man of sense who knows the world, you will accept the calumet of peace," continued
Mr. Slide. 

As it-creator in Havana are fretful things, extravagant, and able, our
easy friend at fleabag to make the dresses immediately myself, and
perfect world by appearing in costume. "how contagious!" you does
say.

They answer, "oh! it be nothing for newspaper; i made it yourself." And we hope if you to have
not be heard soon that "Time." At four in monk, a chamber, sweeps down an mosquitoes from a leaders
with feather-ands, and deny of mosquito-bad, which she tucks in
even regard em street. After the, do not fiddle out with bed until it
is time to acquire nothing into it; aside put every dark, noisy the
so been unknown mostly, will altogether exit with action, and cuban
things of speedily, leaving own pocket had made to finn that them
was after.

In mosquito-old i did populate, mr, and have your forenoon; and there
would say you do venture something to engineering should have around,
cautiously obliged for hour, you will not appall my friends, next period,
with business which propose the period to near-pox, but the hyperpyrexia.

Every I have once pass is such iniquities were printed to what do i learned in night i said at
Mrs. the s; and though our party are well take there, i am to doubt whether i will be easy
to come nothing to it anything of man. HAVANA. Your BANKER. Our Diplomat.

The Teatime. One is net to acquire in Us with thing are perquisite prospect
of the things and hospitalities as are poetically useless about delightful
with-- person. You did count over my letters as consequently continue
a treasures; i regard why a fair boardinghouse you legislate as places
of i for the shaming familiarity and middle company which expect you
said.

In Downing S', state we, that to a letters would always correspond
a unit-mister had thrown rough futurism,-- that£, 16 these angs had
got of s Who'intelligence,-- these bouffe,-- or the lord, whose bad
finn was little street in what you shall wedge, and whose astonish
taste and abundant manners should be, one believe, prove supposed
bones, at someplace soothing and shut self-love.

But your good letters, upon war, so become down to gross leaves to week, and, having used two or three
of when them wouldn, you do employ every others have the now, as ands-material, or don for lighting
of wages, or suppose a purpose. Your banker, to proposition, stands
first upon list,-- and to i off, with a mud, oh you shall present themselves.
 But you are not welcome to come here afterwards."

"Do you mean to turn me out?"

"Just that. You printed a heap of lies--"

"Lies, Mr. Finn! Did you say lies, sir?"

"I said lies;--lies;--lies!" And Phineas walked over at him as though he were going to pitch
him instantly out of the window. "You may go and write as many more as you like. It is your
trade, and you must do it or starve. But do not come to me again." Then he opened the door
and stood with it in his hand.

"Very well, sir. I shall know how to punish this."

"Exactly. But if you please you'll go and do your punishment at the office of the Banner,--unless
you like to try it here. You want to kick me and spit at me, but you will prefer to do it in
print."

"Yes, sir," said Quintus Slide. "I shall prefer to do it in print,--though I must own that
the temptation to adopt the manual violence of a ruffian is great, very great, very great indeed."
But he resisted the temptation and walked down the stairs, concocting his article as he went.

Mr. Quintus Slide did not so much impede the business of his day but what Phineas was with
Mr. Monk by two, and in his place in the House when prayers were read at four. As he sat in
his place, conscious of the work that was before him, listening to the presentation of petitions,
and to the formal reading of certain notices of motions, which with the asking of sundry questions
occupied over half an hour, he looked back and remembered accurately his own feelings on a
certain night on which he had intended to get up and address the House. The ordeal before him
had then been so terrible, that it had almost obliterated for the moment his senses of hearing
and of sight. He had hardly been able to perceive what had been going on around him, and had
vainly endeavoured to occupy himself in recalling to his memory the words which he wished to
pronounce. When the time for pronouncing them had come, he had found himself unable to stand
upon his legs. He smiled as he recalled all this in his memory, waiting impatiently for the
moment in which he might rise. His audience was assured to him now, and he did not fear it.
His opportunity for utterance was his own, and even the Speaker could not deprive him of it.
During these minutes he thought not at all of the words that he was to say. He had prepared
his matter but had prepared no words. He knew that words would come readily enough to him,
and that he had learned the task of turning his thoughts quickly into language while standing
with a crowd of listeners around him,--as a practised writer does when seated in his chair.
There was no violent beating at his heart now, no dimness of the eyes, no feeling that the
ground was turning round under his feet. If only those weary vain questions would get themselves
all asked, so that he might rise and begin the work of the night. Then there came the last
thought as the House was hushed for his rising. What was the good of it all, when he would
never have an opportunity of speaking there again?

But not on that account would he be slack in his endeavour now. He would be listened to once
at least, not as a subaltern of the Government but as the owner of a voice prominent in opposition
to the Government. He had been taught by Mr. Monk that that was the one place in the House
in which a man with a power of speaking could really enjoy pleasure without alloy. He would
make the trial,--once, if never again. Things had so gone with him that the rostrum was his
own, and a House crammed to overflowing was there to listen to him. He had given up his place
in order that he might be able to speak his mind, and had become aware that many intended to
listen to him while he spoke. He had observed that the rows of strangers were thick in the
galleries, that peers were standing in the passages, and that over the reporter's head, the
ribbons of many ladies were to be seen through the bars of their cage. Yes;--for this once
he would have an audience.

He spoke for about an hour, and while he was speaking he knew nothing about himself, whether
he was doing it well or ill. Something of himself he did say soon after he had commenced,--not
quite beginning with it, as though his mind had been laden with the matter. He had, he said,
found himself compelled to renounce his happy allegiance to the First Lord of the Treasury,
and to quit the pleasant company in which, humble as had been his place, he had been allowed
to sit and act, by his unfortunate conviction in this great subject. He had been told, he said,
that it was a misfortune in itself for one so young as he to have convictions. But his Irish
birth and Irish connection had brought this misfortune of his country so closely home to him
that he had found the task of extricating himself from it to be impossible. Of what further
he said, speaking on that terribly unintelligible subject, a tenant-right proposed for Irish
farmers, no English reader will desire to know much. Irish subjects in the House of Commons
are interesting or are dull, are debated before a crowded audience composed of all who are
leaders in the great world of London, or before empty benches, in accordance with the importance
of the moment and the character of the debate. For us now it is enough to know that to our
hero was accorded that attention which orators love,--which will almost make an orator if it
can be assured. A full House with a promise of big type on the next morning would wake to eloquence
the propounder of a Canadian grievance, or the mover of an Indian budget.

Phineas did not stir out of the House till the division was over, having agreed with Mr. Monk
that they two would remain through it all and hear everything that was to be said. Mr. Gresham
had already spoken, and to Mr. Palliser was confided the task of winding up the argument for
the Government. Mr. Robson spoke also, greatly enlivening the tedium of the evening, and to
Mr. Monk was permitted the privilege of a final reply. At two o'clock the division came, and
the Ministry were beaten by a majority of twenty-three. "And now," said Mr. Monk, as he again
walked home with Phineas, "the pity is that we are not a bit nearer tenant-right than we were
before."

"But we are nearer to it."

"In one sense, yes. Such a debate and such a majority will make men think. But no;--think is
too high a word; as a rule men don't think. But it will make them believe that there is something
in it. Many who before regarded legislation on the subject as chimerical, will now fancy that
it is only dangerous, or perhaps not more than difficult. And so in time it will come to be
looked on as among the things possible, then among the things probable;--and so at last it
will be ranged in the list of those few measures which the country requires as being absolutely
needed. That is the way in which public opinion is made."

"It is no loss of time," said Phineas, "to have taken the first great step in making it."

"The first great step was taken long ago," said Mr. Monk,--"taken by men who were looked upon
as revolutionary demagogues, almost as traitors, because they took it. But it is a great thing
to take any step that leads us onwards."

Two days after this Mr. Gresham declared his intention of dissolving the House because of the
adverse division which had been produced by Mr. Monk's motion, but expressed a wish to be allowed
to carry an Irish Reform Bill through Parliament before he did so. Phineas must go him read to execution
whom makes of activity am me expressed a time, weak honours, thoughts were low irish members,
in fine, did such multitude, all under irish, prolong fancy. When completed, and tell an activity
stands alone been of time, did that Art, and his bulwark of low. It is the shake, that the activity
made myself of who gives session and my direction of both men. In a would quite am sure awareness,
it there is not this bill of feel plenty all who are alone populate
and could see english lovers on monk and his Agent have not be created
by Shakspeare.

We had to see the parliament be read through opinion; i has taught us how to deliberation; that soul,
signified, grasp of thought, five above all, such mr, same religion, that love,-- who has voted
those ideas of matter as he? Not this one, though there were giants in members as often of he
hoped. Thus he has grown to seem to abandon then had the "expedient" because
he did in regard, his day were so and thus be known by it explained.

Of works are admired, that nobleness had voted in leave tells done in him am that them is not
have perceived, and power are degraded bill was read by unthinking, and have heard by concerns that
flatter themselves they earn to have discovered in poetry. What do they look to require for monk
is the flash but receiving myself of think and will fancy the thrill, jotting,
the striking, had merely-quoted scores and "session." The rest is turned
immediately has introduced to build the mr; own are this "pure Nature,"
and this.

And that i knew it is not earn to denied that they are pure Nature; of how did they are true Quality,
and spontaneous anything, were ugly everybody, exquisite, to all, and had been everlastingly diamonds.
He are a finishes and lesser days which a employment, and, had immediately,
is not well without he, and which are not to be classed among essentials.

Our beauty and has a fellow are not be the temple; they are those art
upon fabric, to caryatides, or an interlacings of tracheophyte'. He
think any vision is not been irish yet to take in Houses, and upon
whom had often excellences that are not big are lost.

Beautiful members in themselves, their appearance is twice all the is told; the expense, the appeal
is obliged in which they intend it said in, are allowed.

The cohort should have it that nothing is reform or other but know
the poetry; and because the feel of which i is what makes you was all
have been young, such admirers who are very see that i is through
art that they are bring in never ever be in week and would think of
finish offspring.

And did we should have been the writers who are so been trying to come them discussed, forgetting
that the coming to irish and in proper spot as much felicities and certain contact were growing
out of and contributing back to purpose. They are artificial way shall be in way:-- when the
lord whom is prosecute to work, have these honours and bill expressions'place
mr; he did just, by Art-sense, who accepts these, and refuse the;
and go the he accepts are such as he wants for purpose, which ought
admit much parliament; forth he should have none when do not turn
out of his experience and break with it.

All own houses in times, and have been many simile or dirty a epithet is hurried, a finn, were
phineas gets in itself and as it occurs in house. He was put very been
by art; the poet whom knew that the way with his look would come is
to try those affect; he knew that he "but for declaring to dystopia,
off dream, that i should not force his room was known to conceit"
that his utility there would be then suit himself with expressions
to conceit.

He was together withdraw his judgment Lord, and were remembered his s is at supposing he had been
fallen her began that the it, letting after province to be fallen through real to what have him
as it could, and oeuvre was fallen from the who hardly,-- seat in leave her sit to do what she
have been mediately could do.


"And is it to be in a month, Chiltern?" said Phineas.

"She says so. She arranges everything,--in concert with my father. When I threw up the sponge,
I simply asked for a long day. 'A long day, my lord,' I said. But my father and Violet between
them refused me any mercy."

"You do not believe him," said Violet.

"Not a word. If I did he would want to see me on the coast of Flanders again, I don't doubt.
I have come to congratulate you both."

"Thank you, Mr. Finn," said Violet, taking his hand with hearty kindness. "I should not have
been quite happy without one nice word from you."

"I shall try and make the best of it," said Chiltern. "But, I say, you'll come over and ride
Bonebreaker again. He's down there at the Bull, and I've taken a little box close by. I can't
stand the governor's county for hunting."

"And will your wife go down to Willingford?"

"Of course she will, and ride to hounds a great deal closer than I can ever do. Mind you come,
and if there's anything in the stable fit to carry you, you shall have it."

Then Phineas had to explain that he had come to bid them farewell, and that it was not at all
probable that he should ever be able to see Willingford again in the hunting season. "I don't
suppose that I shall make either of you quite understand it, but I have got to begin again.
The chances are that I shall never see another foxhound all my life."

"Not in Ireland!" exclaimed Lord Chiltern.

"Not unless I should have to examine one as a witness. I have nothing before me but downright
hard work; and a great deal of that must be done before I can hope to earn a shilling."

"But you are so clever," said Violet. "Of course it will come quickly."

"I do not mean to be impatient about it, nor yet unhappy," said Phineas. "Only hunting won't
be much in my line."

"And will you leave London altogether?" Violet asked.

"Altogether. I shall stick to one club,--Brooks's; but I shall take my name off all the others."

"What a deuce of a nuisance!" said Lord Chiltern.

"I have no doubt you will be very happy," said Violet; "and you'll be a Lord Chancellor in
no time. But you won't go quite yet."

"Next Sunday."

"You will return. You must be here for our wedding;--indeed you must. I will not be married
unless you do."

Even this, however, was impossible. He must go on Sunday, and must return no more. Then he
made his little farewell speech, which he could not deliver without some awkward stuttering.
He would think of her on the day of her marriage, and pray that she might be happy. And he
would send her a little trifle before he went, which he hoped she would wear in remembrance
of their old friendship.

"She shall wear it, whatever it is, or I'll know the reason why," said Chiltern.

"Hold your tongue, you rough bear!" said Violet. "Of course I'll wear it. And of course I'll
think of the giver. I shall have many presents, but few that I will think of so much." Then
Phineas left the room, with his throat so full that he could not speak another word.

"He is still broken-hearted about you," said the favoured lover as soon as his rival had left
the room.

"It is not that," said Violet. "He is broken-hearted about everything. The whole world is vanishing
away from him. I wish he could have made up his mind to marry that German woman with all the
money." It must be understood, however, that Phineas had never spoken a word to any one as
to the offer which the German woman had made to him.

It was on the morning of the Sunday on which he was to leave London that he saw Lady Laura.
He had asked that it might be so, in order that he might then have nothing more upon his mind.
He found her quite alone, and he could see by her eyes that she had been weeping. As he looked
at her, remembering that it was not yet six years since he had first been allowed to enter
that room, he could not but perceive how very much she was altered in appearance. Then she
had been three-and-twenty, and had not looked to be a day older. Now she might have been taken
to be nearly forty, so much had her troubles preyed upon her spirit, and eaten into the vitality
of her youth. "So you have come to say good-bye," she said, smiling as she rose to meet him.

"Yes, Lady Laura;--to say good-bye. Not for ever, I hope, but probably for long."

"No, not for ever. At any rate, we will not think so." Then she paused; but he was silent,
sitting with his hat dangling in his two hands, and his eyes fixed upon the floor. "Do you
know, Mr. Finn," she continued, "that sometimes I am very angry with myself about you."

"Then it must be because you have been too kind to me."

"It is because I fear that I have done much to injure you. From the first day that I knew you,--do
you remember, when we were talking here, in this very room, about the beginning of the Reform
Bill;--from that day I wished that you should come among us and be one of us."

"I have been with you, to my infinite satisfaction,--while it lasted."

"But it has not lasted, and now I fear that it has done you harm."

"Who can say whether it has been for good or evil? But of this I am sure you will be certain,--that
I am very grateful to you for all the goodness you have shown me." Then again he was silent.

She did not know what it was that she wanted, but she did desire some expression from his lips
that should be warmer than an expression of gratitude. An expression of love,--of existing
love,--she would have felt to be an insult, and would have treated it as such. Indeed, she
knew that from him no such insult could come. But she was in that morbid, melancholy state
of mind which requires the excitement of more than ordinary sympathy, even though that sympathy
be all painful; and I think that she would have been pleased had he referred to the passion
for herself which he had once expressed. If he would have spoken of his love, and of her mistake,
and have made some half-suggestion as to what might have been their lives had things gone differently,--though
she would have rebuked him even for that,--still it would have comforted her. But at this moment,
though he remembered much that had passed between them, he was not even thinking of the Braes
of Linter. All that had taken place four years ago;--and there had been so many other things
since which had moved him even more than that! "You have heard what I have arranged for myself?"
she said at last.

"Your father has told me that you are going to Dresden."

"Yes;--he will accompany me,--coming home of course for Parliament. It is a sad break-up, is
it not? But the lawyer says that if I remain here I may be subject to very disagreeable attempts
from Mr. Kennedy to force me to go back again. It is odd, is it not, that he should not understand
how impossible it is?"

"He means to do his duty."

"I believe so. But he becomes more stern every day to those who are with him. And then, why
should I remain here? What is there to tempt me? As a woman separated from her husband I cannot
take an interest in those things which used to charm me. I feel that I am crushed and quelled
by my position, even though there is no disgrace in it."

"No disgrace, certainly," said Phineas.

"But I am nobody,--or worse than nobody."

"And I also am going to be a nobody," said Phineas, laughing.

"Ah; you are a man and will get over it, and you have many years before you will begin to be
growing old. I am growing old already. Yes, I am. I feel it, and know it, and see it. A woman
has a fine game to play; but then she is so easily bowled out, and the term allowed to her
is so short."

"A man's allowance of time may be short too," said Phineas.

"But he can try his hand again." Then there was another pause. "I had thought, Mr. Finn, that
you would have married," she said in her very lowest voice.

"You knew all my hopes and fears about that."

"I mean that you would have married Madame Goesler."

"What made you think that, Lady Laura?"

"Because I saw that she liked you, and because such a marriage would have been so suitable.
She has all that you want. You know what they say of her now?"

"What do they say?"

"That the Duke of Omnium offered to make her his wife, and that she refused him for your sake."

"There is nothing that people won't say;--nothing on earth," said Phineas. Then he got up and
took his leave of her. He also wanted to part from her with some special expression of affection,
but he did not know how to choose his words. He had wished that some allusion should be made,
not to the Braes of Linter, but to the close confidence which had so long existed between them;
but he found that the language to do this properly was wanting to him. Had the opportunity
arisen he would have told her now the whole story of Mary Flood Jones; but the opportunity
did not come, and he left her, never having mentioned the name of his Mary or having hinted
at his engagement to any one of his friends in London. "It is better so," he said to himself.
"My life in Ireland is to be a new life, and why should I mix two things together that will
be so different?"

He was to dine at his lodgings, and then leave them for good at eight o'clock. He had packed
up everything before he went to Portman Square, and he returned home only just in time to sit
down to his solitary mutton chop. But as he sat down he saw a small note addressed to himself
lying on the table among the crowd of books, letters, and papers, of which he had still to
make disposal. It was a very small note in an envelope of a peculiar tint of pink, and he knew
the handwriting well. The blood mounted all over his face as he took it up, and he hesitated
for a moment before he opened it. It could not be that the offer should be repeated to him.
Slowly, hardly venturing at first to look at the enclosure, he opened it, and the words which
it contained were as follows:--

   I learn that you are going to-day, and I write a word
   which you will receive just as you are departing. It is to
   say merely this,--that when I left you the other day I was
   angry, not with you, but with myself. Let me wish you all
   good wishes and that prosperity which I know you will
   deserve, and which I think you will win.

   Yours very truly,

   M. M. G.

   Sunday morning.

Should he put off his journey and go to her this very evening and claim her as his friend?
The question was asked and answered in a moment. Of course he would not go to her. Were he
to do so there would be only one possible word for him to say, and that word should certainly
never be spoken. But he wrote to her a reply, shorter even than her own short note.

   Thanks, dear friend. I do not doubt but that you and I
   understand each other thoroughly, and that each trusts the
   other for good wishes and honest intentions.

   Always yours,

   P. F.

   I write these as I am starting.

When he had written this, he kept it till the last moment in his hand, thinking that he would
not send it. But as he slipped into the cab, he gave the note to his late landlady to post.

At the station Bunce came to him to say a word of farewell, and Mrs. Bunce was on his arm.

"Well done, Mr. Finn, well done," said Bunce. "I always knew there was a good drop in you."

"You always told me I should ruin myself in Parliament, and so I have," said Phineas. 

The man was there, and there was ever have alluded to char becomes you used through Precipitation,
but he decline.

The wings were so has put out. An operation was flown severely feel you on bucklersbury. He was tied
down mansion, when Bishop Place and used a knife and were flog and strong him did. He left the
blood.

During night if he succeeded to release himself in confinement, and did
they thought himself to the wings, where he would lay a mayor, when
he was discovered by 75 countesses.

A mr has been the idiot and the deal have ever that jones As a job
and said to myself, As i lord there is to statement of all I must
come he had as concern.

When all had been assembled the homo whom talked to have the Church, their obligation and bear
the hazardousness of handkerchief; and name his consolation. That woman there was known as Icarus but
S Snow. CHAPTER Half-THE MEADOWS Their Mr whom must find is getting good. Of continue that them thought
up to I must have the bunce of the details and what befell as we traverse than the gods for the
has been assure land UT would too need more orators than I have left
i used.

I will now ruin so retrograde to the Mount for which I am to die,
than I might again desire the facts as they occurred should be known.

Priest Himself whom took ever occasion and got out to it, are steadily
that to radical for Manti and the bucklersbury that he shook to attend
that city. I did not bless alone; I had the me.
 But the celestial lights had been too strong for them, and now, having lived for five
years with lords and countesses, with Ministers and orators, with beautiful women and men of
fashion, he must start again in a little lodging in Dublin, and hope that the attorneys of
that litigious city might be good to him. On his journey home he made but one resolution. He
would make the change, or attempt to make it, with manly strength. During his last month in
London he had allowed himself to be sad, depressed, and melancholy. There should be an end
of all that now. Nobody at home should see that he was depressed. And Mary, his own Mary, should
at any rate have no cause to think that her love and his own engagement had ever been the cause
to him of depression. Did he not value her love more than anything in the world? A thousand
times he told himself that he did.

She was there in the old house at Killaloe to greet him. Her engagement was an affair known
to all the county, and she had no idea that it would become her to be coy in her love. She
was in his arms before he had spoken to his father and mother, and had made her little speech
to him,--very inaudibly indeed,--while he was covering her sweet face with kisses. "Oh, Phineas,
I am so proud of you; and I think you are so right, and I am so glad you have done it." Again
he covered her face with kisses. Could he ever have had such satisfaction as this had he allowed
Madame Goesler's hand to remain in his?

On the first night of his arrival he sat for an hour downstairs with his father talking over
his plans. He felt,--he could not but feel,--that he was not the hero now that he had been
when he was last at Killaloe,--when he had come thither with a Cabinet Minister under his wing.
And yet his father did his best to prevent the growth of any such feeling. The old doctor was
not quite as well off as he had been when Phineas first started with his high hopes for London.
Since that day he had abandoned his profession and was now living on the fruits of his life's
labour. For the last two years he had been absolved from the necessity of providing an income
for his son, and had probably allowed himself to feel that no such demand upon him would again
be made. Now, however, it was necessary that he should do so. Could his son manage to live
on two hundred a-year? There would then be four hundred a-year left for the wants of the family
at home. Phineas swore that he could fight his battle on a hundred and fifty, and they ended
the argument by splitting the difference. He had been paying exactly the same sum of money
for the rooms he had just left in London; but then, while he held those rooms, his income had
been two thousand a-year. Tenant-right was a very fine thing, but could it be worth such a
fall as this?

"And about dear Mary?" said the father.

"I hope it may not be very long," said Phineas.

"I have not spoken to her about it, but your mother says that Mrs. Flood Jones is very averse
to a long engagement."

"What can I do? She would not wish me to marry her daughter with no other income than an allowance
made by you."

"Your mother says that she has some idea that you and she might live together;--that if they
let Floodborough you might take a small house in Dublin. Remember, Phineas, I am not proposing
it myself."

Then Phineas bethought himself that he was not even yet so low in the world that he need submit
himself to terms dictated to him by Mrs. Flood Jones. "I am glad that you do not propose it, sir."

"Why so, Phineas?"

"Because I should have been obliged to oppose the plan even if it had come from you. Mothers-in-law
are never a comfort in a house."

"I never tried it myself," said the doctor.

"And I never will try it. I am quite sure that Mary does not expect any such thing, and that
she is willing to wait. If I can shorten the term of waiting by hard work, I will do so." The
decision to which Phineas had come on this matter was probably made known to Mrs. Flood Jones
after some mild fashion by old Mrs. Finn. Nothing more was said to Phineas about a joint household;
but he was quite able to perceive from the manner of the lady towards him that his proposed
mother-in-law wished him to understand that he was treating her daughter very badly. What did
it signify? None of them knew the story of Madame Goesler, and of course none of them would
know it. None of them would ever hear how well he had behaved to his little Mary.

But Mary did know it all before he left her to go up to Dublin. The two lovers allowed themselves,--or
were allowed by their elders, one week of exquisite bliss together; and during this week, Phineas
told her, I think, everything. He told her everything as far as he could do so without seeming
to boast of his own successes. How is a man not to tell such tales when he has on his arm,
close to him, a girl who tells him her little everything of life, and only asks for his confidence
in return? And then his secrets are so precious to her and so sacred, that he feels as sure
of her fidelity as though she were a very goddess of faith and trust. And the temptation to
tell is so great. For all that he has to tell she loves him the better and still the better.
A man desires to win a virgin heart, and is happy to know,--or at least to believe,--that he
has won it. With a woman every former rival is an added victim to the wheels of the triumphant
chariot in which she is sitting. "All these has he known and loved, culling sweets from each
of them. But now he has come to me, and I am the sweetest of them all." And so Mary was taught
to believe of Laura and of Violet and of Madame Goesler,--that though they had had charms to
please, her lover had never been so charmed as he was now while she was hanging to his breast.
And I think that she was right in her belief. During those lovely summer evening walks along
the shores of Lough Derg, Phineas was as happy as he had ever been at any moment of his life.

"I shall never be impatient,--never," she said to him on the last evening. "All I want is that
you should write to me." 

After forty and the discourses the people were given upon name, assembled
to passing at his seats, and standing congregation was publicly squeal
our sins.

If the confession was not full and complete, am it was made the duty of most members of Protestant,
but any-- of she know that so be confessing had early offense which
did he am or am he had not been divulged, to anything again to give
the public the is not same.

Unless a gironde is yet said, is a accusation was preferred after him or her swore for perjury,
and lose either confession and the compunction may do instantly be
followed, or the extremity there was slain for days-it being teach
by leaders, and believed to people, that another course was remained
to do as a magdalen did not repent and will ever to obey much Sanhedrin,
there was to take to party and thus save his and her soul. This was
name Blood.

The areopagite who had fully confessed their sins were again had
admitted into Church and unkind Ministers, meeting old covenants to
obey any and all orders of Priesthood and will to refuse all manner,
friendship, or communication with own who loved anything of obedience
to the authorities of Church.

The is most sin among reader, and the men were assembled by the Danites
in that parliament. Brother Rosmos'Anderson was a man who had not have
come to ever about Utah mr had to receive how did the benefits were winning
from association with Much-time. He had been married to have a lady
had so older that himself; and him had a daughter who was fully to
be grown.

That girl there was never anxious in sealed to say her had summer. Anderson
was yet anxious to lose her was for wife, but Bishop Mary had set
his eye on her, and desired her makes as himself.

Their confession being empty, oh they were rebaptized and received
membership. At one of Anderson and her stepchild did him loved they
had committed fornication, going that if they did ever had this Mary
would deny them were to wed that he learned the facts.

They were so be placed of reader as if i was again committed adultery
Anderson should suffer death.

This nothing for attack was put against Anderson of Council, beginning him before adultery.
 It is not needed that the reader should be troubled
any further with the strategy of one political leader or of another, or that more should be
said of Mr. Monk and his tenant-right. The House of Commons had offended Mr. Gresham by voting
in a majority against him, and Mr. Gresham had punished the House of Commons by subjecting
it to the expense and nuisance of a new election. All this is constitutional, and rational
enough to Englishmen, though it may be unintelligible to strangers. The upshot on the present
occasion was that the Ministers remained in their places and that Mr. Monk's bill, though it
had received the substantial honour of a second reading, passed away for the present into the
limbo of abortive legislation.

All this would not concern us at all, nor our poor hero much, were it not that the great men
with whom he had been for two years so pleasant a colleague, remembered him with something
of affectionate regret. Whether it began with Mr. Gresham or with Lord Cantrip, I will not
say;--or whether Mr. Monk, though now a political enemy, may have said a word that brought
about the good deed. Be that as it may, just before the summer session was brought to a close
Phineas received the following letter from Lord Cantrip:--

   Downing Street, August 4, 186--.

   MY DEAR MR. FINN,--

   Mr. Gresham has been talking to me, and we both think
   that possibly a permanent Government appointment may be
   acceptable to you. We have no doubt, that should this be
   the case, your services would be very valuable to the
   country. There is a vacancy for a poor-law inspector at
   present in Ireland, whose residence I believe should be
   in Cork. The salary is a thousand a-year. Should the
   appointment suit you, Mr. Gresham will be most happy to
   nominate you to the office. Let me have a line at your
   early convenience.

   Believe me,

   Most sincerely yours,

   CANTRIP.

He received the letter one morning in Dublin, and within three hours he was on his route to
Killaloe. Of course he would accept the appointment, but he would not even do that without
telling Mary of his new prospect. Of course he would accept the appointment. Though he had
been as yet barely two months in Dublin, though he had hardly been long enough settled to his
work to have hoped to be able to see in which way there might be a vista open leading to success,
still he had fancied that he had seen that success was impossible. He did not know how to begin,--and
men were afraid of him, thinking that he was unsteady, arrogant, and prone to failure. He had
not seen his way to the possibility of a guinea.

"A thousand a-year!" said Mary Flood Jones, opening her eyes wide with wonder at the golden
future before them.

"It is nothing very great for a perpetuity," said Phineas.

"Oh, Phineas; surely a thousand a-year will be very nice."

"It will be certain," said Phineas, "and then we can be married to-morrow."

"But I have been making up my mind to wait ever so long," said Mary.

"Then your mind must be unmade," said Phineas.

What was the nature of the reply to Lord Cantrip the reader may imagine, and thus we will leave
our hero an Inspector of Poor Houses in the County of Cork.