I am very dim, dumb, dowie, and damnable.  I hate to be silenced;  and if to talk by signs
is my forte (as I contend), to understand  them cannot be my wife's.  Do not think me unhappy;
I have not been  so for years; but I am blurred, inhabit the debatable frontier of  sleep,
and have but dim designs upon activity.  All is at a  standstill; books closed, paper put aside,
the voice, the eternal  voice of R. L. S., well silenced.  Hence this plaint reaches you  with
no very great meaning, no very great purpose, and written part  in slumber by a heavy, dull,
somnolent, superannuated son of a  bedpost.

CHAPTER VII - LIFE AT BOURNEMOUTH, SEPTEMBER 1884-DECEMBER 1885

Letter:  TO MR. AND MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

WENSLEYDALE, BOURNEMOUTH, SUNDAY, 28TH SEPTEMBER 1884.

MY DEAR PEOPLE, - I keep better, and am to-day downstairs for the  first time.  I find the
lockers entirely empty; not a cent to the  front.  Will you pray send us some?  It blows an
equinoctial gale,  and has blown for nearly a week.  Nimbus Britannicus; piping wind,  lashing
rain; the sea is a fine colour, and wind-bound ships lie at  anchor under the Old Harry rocks,
to make one glad to be ashore.

The Henleys are gone, and two plays practically done.  I hope they  may produce some of the
ready. - I am, ever affectionate son,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

[WENSLEYDALE, BOURNEMOUTH, OCTOBER 1884?]

DEAR BOY, - I trust this finds you well; it leaves me so-so.  The  weather is so cold that
I must stick to bed, which is rotten and  tedious, but can't be helped.

I find in the blotting book the enclosed, which I wrote to you the  eve of my blood.  Is it
not strange?  That night, when I naturally  thought I was coopered, the thought of it was much
in my mind; I  thought it had gone; and I thought what a strange prophecy I had  made in jest,
and how it was indeed like to be the end of many  letters.  But I have written a good few since,
and the spell is  broken.  I am just as pleased, for I earnestly desire to live.   This pleasant
middle age into whose port we are steering is quite  to my fancy.  I would cast anchor here,
and go ashore for twenty  years, and see the manners of the place.  Youth was a great time,
but somewhat fussy.  Now in middle age (bar lucre) all seems mighty  placid.  It likes me;
I spy a little bright cafe in one corner of  the port, in front of which I now propose we should
sit down.   There is just enough of the bustle of the harbour and no more; and  the ships are
close in, regarding us with stern-windows - the ships  that bring deals from Norway and parrots
from the Indies.  Let us  sit down here for twenty years, with a packet of tobacco and a  drink,
and talk of art and women.  By-and-by, the whole city will  sink, and the ships too, and the
table, and we also; but we shall  have sat for twenty years and had a fine talk; and by that
time,  who knows? exhausted the subject.

I send you a book which (or I am mistook) will please you; it  pleased me.  But I do desire
a book of adventure - a romance - and  no man will get or write me one.  Dumas I have read
and re-read too  often; Scott, too, and I am short.  I want to hear swords clash.  I  want
a book to begin in a good way; a book, I guess, like TREASURE  ISLAND, alas! which I have never
read, and cannot though I live to  ninety.  I would God that some one else had written it!
By all  that I can learn, it is the very book for my complaint.  I like the  way I hear it
opens; and they tell me John Silver is good fun.  And  to me it is, and must ever be, a dream
unrealised, a book  unwritten.  O my sighings after romance, or even Skeltery, and O!  the
weary age which will produce me neither!

CHAPTER I

The night was damp and cloudy, the ways foul.  The single horseman,  cloaked and booted, who
pursued his way across Willesden Common,  had not met a traveller, when the sound of wheels -

CHAPTER I

'Yes, sir,' said the old pilot, 'she must have dropped into the bay  a little afore dawn. 
A queer craft she looks.'

'She shows no colours,' returned the young gentleman musingly.

'They're a-lowering of a quarter-boat, Mr. Mark,' resumed the old  salt.  'We shall soon know
more of her.'

'Ay,' replied the young gentleman called Mark, 'and here, Mr.  Seadrift, comes your sweet daughter
Nancy tripping down the cliff.'

'God bless her kind heart, sir,' ejaculated old Seadrift.

CHAPTER I

The notary, Jean Rossignol, had been summoned to the top of a great  house in the Isle St.
Louis to make a will; and now, his duties  finished, wrapped in a warm roquelaure and with
a lantern swinging  from one hand, he issued from the mansion on his homeward way.   Little
did he think what strange adventures were to befall him! -

That is how stories should begin.  And I am offered HUSKS instead.

What should be:                What is: The Filibuster's Cache.       Aunt Anne's Tea Cosy.
Jerry Abershaw.               Mrs. Brierly's Niece. Blood Money:  A Tale.          Society:
A Novel

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO THE REV. PROFESSOR LEWIS CAMPBELL

[WENSLEYDALE, BOURNEMOUTH, NOVEMBER 1884.]

MY DEAR CAMPBELL, - The books came duly to hand.  My wife has  occupied the translation ever
since, nor have I yet been able to  dislodge her.  As for the primer, I have read it with a
very  strange result:  that I find no fault.  If you knew how, dogmatic  and pugnacious, I
stand warden on the literary art, you would the  more appreciate your success and my - well,
I will own it -   disappointment.  For I love to put people right (or wrong) about  the arts.
But what you say of Tragedy and of Sophocles very amply  satisfies me; it is well felt and
well said; a little less  technically than it is my weakness to desire to see it put, but 
clear and adequate.  You are very right to express your admiration  for the resource displayed
in OEdipus King; it is a miracle.  Would  it not have been well to mention Voltaire's interesting
onslaught,  a thing which gives the best lesson of the difference of neighbour  arts? - since
all his criticisms, which had been fatal to a  narrative, do not amount among them to exhibit
one flaw in this  masterpiece of drama.  For the drama, it is perfect; though such a  fable
in a romance might make the reader crack his sides, so  imperfect, so ethereally slight is
the verisimilitude required of  these conventional, rigid, and egg-dancing arts.

I was sorry to see no more of you; but shall conclude by hoping for  better luck next time.
My wife begs to be remembered to both of  you. - Yours sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO ANDREW CHATTO

WENSLEYDALE, BOURNEMOUTH, OCTOBER 3, 1884.

DEAR MR. CHATTO, - I have an offer of 25 pounds for OTTO from  America.  I do not know if you
mean to have the American rights;  from the nature of the contract, I think not; but if you
understood  that you were to sell the sheets, I will either hand over the  bargain to you,
or finish it myself and hand you over the money if  you are pleased with the amount.  You see,
I leave this quite in  your hands.  To parody an old Scotch story of servant and master:  
if you don't know that you have a good author, I know that I have a  good publisher.  Your
fair, open, and handsome dealings are a good  point in my life, and do more for my crazy health
than has yet been  done by any doctor. - Very truly yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO W. H. LOW

BONALLIE TOWERS, BRANKSOME PARK, BOURNEMOUTH, HANTS, ENGLAND, FIRST  WEEK IN NOVEMBER, I GUESS,
1884.

MY DEAR LOW, - NOW, look here, the above is my address for three  months, I hope; continue,
on your part, if you please, to write to  Edinburgh, which is safe; but if Mrs. Low thinks
of coming to  England, she might take a run down from London (four hours from  Waterloo, main
line) and stay a day or two with us among the pines.   If not, I hope it will be only a pleasure
deferred till you can  join her.

My Children's Verses will be published here in a volume called A  CHILD'S GARDEN.  The sheets
are in hand; I will see if I cannot  send you the lot, so that you might have a bit of a start.
In that  case I would do nothing to publish in the States, and you might try  an illustrated
edition there; which, if the book went fairly over  here, might, when ready, be imported. 
But of this more fully ere  long.  You will see some verses of mine in the last MAGAZINE OF
ART, with pictures by a young lady; rather pretty, I think.  If we  find a market for PHASELLULUS
LOQUITUR, we can try another.  I hope  it isn't necessary to put the verse into that rustic
printing.  I  am Philistine enough to prefer clean printer's type; indeed, I can  form no idea
of the verses thus transcribed by the incult and  tottering hand of the draughtsman, nor gather
any impression beyond  one of weariness to the eyes.  Yet the other day, in the CENTURY, I
saw it imputed as a crime to Vedder that he had not thus travestied  Omar Khayyam.  We live
in a rum age of music without airs, stories  without incident, pictures without beauty, American
wood engravings  that should have been etchings, and dry-point etchings that ought  to have
been mezzo-tints.  I think of giving 'em literature without  words; and I believe if you were
to try invisible illustration, it  would enjoy a considerable vogue.  So long as an artist
is on his  head, is painting with a flute, or writes with an etcher's needle,  or conducts
the orchestra with a meat-axe, all is well; and  plaudits shower along with roses.  But any
plain man who tries to  follow the obtrusive canons of his art, is but a commonplace  figure.
To hell with him is the motto, or at least not that; for  he will have his reward, but he will
never be thought a person of  parts.

JANUARY 3, 1885.

And here has this been lying near two months.  I have failed to get  together a preliminary
copy of the Child's Verses for you, in spite  of doughty efforts; but yesterday I sent you
the first sheet of the  definitive edition, and shall continue to send the others as they 
come.  If you can, and care to, work them - why so, well.  If not,  I send you fodder.  But
the time presses; for though I will delay a  little over the proofs, and though - it is even
possible they may  delay the English issue until Easter, it will certainly not be  later. 
Therefore perpend, and do not get caught out.  Of course,  if you can do pictures, it will
be a great pleasure to me to see  our names joined; and more than that, a great advantage,
as I  daresay you may be able to make a bargain for some share a little  less spectral than
the common for the poor author.  But this is all  as you shall choose; I give you CARTE BLANCHE
to do or not to do. -  Yours most sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

O, Sargent has been and painted my portrait; a very nice fellow he  is, and is supposed to
have done well; it is a poetical but very  chicken-boned figure-head, as thus represented.
R. L. S. Go on.

P.P.S. - Your picture came; and let me thank you for it very much.   I am so hunted I had near
forgotten.  I find it very graceful; and  I mean to have it framed.

Letter:  TO THOMAS STEVENSON

BONALLIE TOWERS, BOURNEMOUTH, NOVEMBER 1884.

