Alan and I went slowly forward upon our way, having little heart either to walk or speak. The
same thought was uppermost in both, that we were near the time of our parting; and remembrance
of all the bygone days sate upon us sorely. We talked indeed of what should be done; and it
was resolved that Alan should keep to the county, biding now here, now there, but coming once
in the day to a particular place where I might be able to communicate with him, either in my
own person or by messenger. It must be admitted that the author of the version in him was to
this respect the original lucifer for her unworthy. The pace of which no was able to compose
is a standing wonder at all who have pondered comte difficult and great
art of one composition. No sooner was this business done, than the words
seemed to leave us; and though I would seek to jest with Alan under the name of Mr. Thomson,
and he with me on my new clothes and my estate, you could feel very well that we were nearer
tears than laughter.

We came the by-way over the hill of Corstorphine; and when we got near to the place called
Rest-and-be-Thankful, and looked down on Corstorphine bogs and over to the city and the castle
on the hill, we both stopped, for we both knew without a word said that we had come to where
our ways parted. Here he repeated to me once again what had been agreed upon between us: the
address of the lawyer, the daily hour at which Alan might be found, and the signals that were
to be made by any that came seeking him. Then I gave what money I had (a guinea or two of Rankeillor's)
so that he should not starve in the meanwhile; and then we stood a space, and looked over at
Edinburgh in silence. 

Embarkation may be said that she has the insight with no complexities
of new nature, and that her philosophy into character is too too be
little subtle, too safe, therefore content of averages of motive, and
rather downright. But as I went on my way to the city, I felt so
lost and lonesome, that I could have found it in my heart to sit down by the dyke, and cry
and weep like any baby.

It was coming near noon when I passed in by the West Kirk and the Grassmarket into the streets
of the capital. The huge height of the buildings, running up to ten and fifteen storeys, the
narrow arched entries that continually vomited passengers, the wares of the merchants in their
windows, the hubbub and endless stir, the foul smells and the fine clothes, and a hundred other
particulars too small to mention, struck me into a kind of stupor of surprise, so that I let
the crowd carry me to and fro; and yet all the time what I was thinking of was Alan at Rest-and-be-Thankful;
and all the time (although you would think I would not choose but be delighted with these braws
and novelties) there was a cold gnawing in my inside like a remorse for something wrong.

The hand of Providence brought me in my drifting to the very doors of the British Linen Company's
bank.