"It does get stuffy in here when we run with the wind," Benton admitted. "Cuts off our ventilation.
I'm used to it. Crawl out the window and sit on the forward deck. Don't try to get aft. You
might slip off, the way she's lurching."

Curled in the hollow of a faked-down hawser with the clean air fanning her, Stella recovered
herself. The giddiness left her. She pitied Sam Davis back in that stinking hole beside the
fire box. But she supposed he, like her brother, was "used to it." Apparently one could get
used to anything, if she could judge by the amazing change in Charlie.

Far ahead loomed a ridge running down to the lake shore and cutting off in a bold promontory.
That was Halfway Point, Charlie had told her, and under its shadow lay his camp. Without any
previous knowledge of camps, she was approaching this one with less eager anticipation than
when she began her long journey. She began to fear that it might be totally unlike anything
she had been able to imagine, disagreeably so. Charlie, she decided, had grown hard and coarsened
in the evolution of his ambition to get on, to make his pile. She was but four years younger
than he, and she had always thought of herself as being older and wiser and steadier. She had
conceived the idea that her presence would have a good influence on him, that they would pull
together--now that there were but the two of them. But four hours in his company had dispelled
that illusion. She had the wit to perceive that Charlie Benton had emerged from the chrysalis
stage, that he had the will and the ability to mold his life after his elected fashion, and
that her coming was a relatively unimportant incident.

In due course the Chickamin bore in under Halfway Point, opened out a sheltered bight where
the watery commotion outside raised but a faint ripple, and drew in alongside a float.

The girl swept lake shore, bay, and sloping forest with a quickening eye. Here was no trim-painted
cottage and velvet lawn. In the waters beside and lining the beach floated innumerable logs,
confined by boomsticks, hundreds of trunks of fir, forty and sixty feet long, four and six
feet across the butt, timber enough, when it had passed through the sawmills, to build four
such towns as Hopyard. Just back from the shore, amid stumps and littered branches, rose the
roofs of divers buildings. One was long and low. Hard by it stood another of like type but
of lesser dimension. Two or three mere shanties lifted level with great stumps,--crude, unpainted
buildings. Smoke issued from the pipe of the larger, and a white-aproned man stood in the doorway.

Somewhere in the screen of woods a whistle shrilled. Benton looked at his watch.

"We made good time, in spite of the little roll," said he. "That's the donkey blowing quitting
time--six o'clock. Well, come on up to the shack, Sis. Sam, you get a wheelbarrow and run those
trunks up after supper, will you?"

Away in the banked timber beyond the maples and alder which Stella now saw masked the bank
of a small stream flowing by the cabins, a faint call rose, long-drawn:

"Tim-ber-r-r-r!"

They moved along a path beaten through fern and clawing blackberry vine toward the camp, Benton
carrying the two grips. A loud, sharp crack split the stillness; then a mild swishing sound
arose. Hard on the heels of that followed a rending, tearing crash, a thud that sent tremors
through the solid earth under their feet. The girl started.

"Falling gang dropped a big fir," Charlie laughed. "You'll get used to that. You'll hear it
a good many times a day here."

"Good Heavens, it sounded like the end of the world," she said.

"Well, you can't fell a stick of timber two hundred feet high and six or eight feet through
without making a pretty considerable noise," her brother remarked complacently. "I like that
sound myself. Every big tree that goes down means a bunch of money."

He led the way past the mess-house, from the doorway of which the aproned cook eyed her with
frank curiosity, hailing his employer with nonchalant air, a cigarette resting in one corner
of his mouth. Benton opened the door of the second building. Stella followed him in.

It had the saving grace of cleanliness--according to logging-camp standards. But the bareness
of it appalled her. There was a rusty box heater, littered with cigar and cigarette stubs,
a desk fabricated of undressed boards, a homemade chair or two, sundry boxes standing about.
The sole concession to comfort was a rug of cheap Axminster covering half the floor. The walls
were decorated chiefly with miscellaneous clothing suspended from nails, a few maps and blue
prints tacked up askew. Straight across from the entering door another stood ajar, and she
could see further vistas of bare board wall, small, dusty window-panes, and a bed whereon gray
blankets were tumbled as they fell when a waking sleeper cast them aside.

Benton crossed the room and threw open another door.

"Here's a nook I fixed up for you, Stella," he said briskly. "It isn't very fancy, but it's
the best I could do just now."

She followed him in silently. He set her two bags on the floor and turned to go. Then some
impulse moved him to turn back, and he put both hands on her shoulders and kissed her gently.

"You're home, anyway," he said. "That's something, if it isn't what you're used to. Try to
overlook the crudities. We'll have supper as soon as you feel like it."

He went out, closing the door behind him.

Miss Estella Benton stood in the middle of the room fighting against a swift heart-sinking,
a terrible depression that strove to master her.

"Good Lord in Heaven," she muttered at last. "What a place to be marooned in. It's--it's simply
impossible."

Her gaze roved about the room. A square box, neither more nor less, fourteen by fourteen feet
of bare board wall, unpainted and unpapered. There was an iron bed, a willow rocker, and a
rude closet for clothes in one corner. A duplicate of the department-store bargain rug in the
other room lay on the floor. On an upturned box stood an enamel pitcher and a tin washbasin.
That was all.

She sat down on the bed and viewed it forlornly. A wave of sickening rebellion against everything
swept over her. To herself she seemed as irrevocably alone as if she had been lost in the depths
of the dark timber that rose on every hand. And sitting there she heard at length the voices
of men. Looking out through a window curtained with cheesecloth she saw her brother's logging
gang swing past, stout woodsmen all, big men, tall men, short-bodied men with thick necks and
shoulders, sunburned, all grimy with the sweat of their labors, carrying themselves with a
free and reckless swing, the doubles in type of that roistering crew she had seen embark on
Jack Fyfe's boat.

In so far as she had taken note of those who labored with their hands in the region of her
birth, she had seen few like these. The chauffeur, the footman, the street cleaner, the factory
workers--they were all different. They lacked something,--perhaps nothing in the way of physical
excellence; but these men betrayed in every movement a subtle difference that she could not
define. Her nearest approximation and the first attempt she made at analysis was that they
looked like pirates. They were bold men and strong; that was written in their faces and the
swing of them as they walked. And they served the very excellent purpose of taking her mind
off herself for the time being.

She watched them cluster by a bench before the cookhouse, dabble their faces and hands in washbasins,
scrub themselves promiscuously on towels, sometimes one at each end of a single piece of cloth,
hauling it back and forth in rude play.

All about that cookhouse dooryard spread a confusion of empty tin cans, gaudily labeled, containers
of corn and peas and tomatoes. Dishwater and refuse, chips, scraps, all the refuse of the camp
was scattered there in unlovely array.

But that made no more than a passing impression upon her. She was thinking, as she removed
her hat and gloves, of what queer angles come now and then to the human mind. She wondered
why she should be sufficiently interested in her brother's hired men to drive off a compelling
attack of the blues in consideration of them as men. Nevertheless, she found herself unable
to view them as she had viewed, say, the clerks in her father's office.

She began to brush her hair and to wonder what sort of food would be served for supper.

CHAPTER IV

A FORETASTE OF THINGS TO COME

Half an hour later she sat down with her brother at one end of a table that was but a long
bench covered with oilcloth. Chairs there were none. A narrow movable bench on each side of
the fixed table furnished seating capacity for twenty men, provided none objected to an occasional
nudging from his neighbor's elbow. The dishes, different from any she had ever eaten from,
were of enormously thick porcelain, dead white, variously chipped and cracked with fine seams.
But the food, if plain, was of excellent quality, tastily cooked. She discovered herself with
an appetite wholly independent of silver and cut glass and linen. The tin spoons and steel
knives and forks harrowed her aesthetic sense without impairing her ability to satisfy hunger.

They had the dining room to themselves. Through a single shiplap partition rose a rumble of
masculine talk, where the logging crew loafed in their bunkhouse. The cook served them without
any ceremony, putting everything on the table at once,--soup, meat, vegetables, a bread pudding
for dessert, coffee in a tall tin pot. Benton introduced him to his sister. He withdrew hastily
to the kitchen, and they saw no more of him.

"Charlie," the girl said plaintively, when the man had closed the door behind him, "I don't
quite fathom your social customs out here. Is one supposed to know everybody that one encounters?"

"Just about," he grinned. "Loggers, Siwashes, and the natives in general. Can't very well help
it, Sis. There's so few people in this neck of the woods that nobody can afford to be exclusive,--at
least, nobody who lives here any length of time. You can't tell when you may have to call on
your neighbor or the fellow working for you in a matter of life and death almost. A man couldn't
possibly maintain the same attitude toward a bunch of loggers working under him that would
be considered proper back where we came from. Take me, for instance, and my case is no different
from any man operating on a moderate scale out here. I'd get the reputation of being swell-headed,
and they'd put me in the hole at every turn. They wouldn't care what they did or how it was
done. Ten to one I couldn't keep a capable working crew three weeks on end. On the other hand,
take a bunch of loggers on a pay roll working for a man that meets them on an equal footing--why,
they'll go to hell and back again for him. They're as loyal as soldiers to the flag. They're
a mighty self-sufficient, independent lot, these lumberjacks, and that goes for most everybody
knocking about in this country,--loggers, prospectors, miners, settlers, and all. If you're
what they term 'all right,' you can do anything, and they'll back you up. If you go to putting
on airs and trying to assert yourself as a superior being, they'll go out of their way to hand
you packages of trouble."

"I see," she observed thoughtfully. "One's compelled by circumstances to practice democracy."

"Something like that," he responded carelessly and went on eating his supper.

"Don't you think we could make this place a lot more homelike, Charlie?" she ventured, when
they were back in their own quarters. "I suppose it suits a man who only uses it as a place
to sleep, but it's bare as a barn."

"It takes money to make a place cosy," Benton returned. "And I haven't had it to spend on knickknacks."

"Fiddlesticks!" she laughed. "A comfortable chair or two and curtains and pictures aren't knickknacks,
as you call them. The cost wouldn't amount to anything."

Benton stuffed the bowl of a pipe and lighted it before he essayed reply.

"Look here, Stella," he said earnestly. "This joint probably strikes you as about the limit,
seeing that you've been used to pretty soft surroundings and getting pretty nearly anything
you wanted whenever you expressed a wish for it. Things that you've grown into the way of considering
necessities are luxuries. And they're out of the question for us at present. I got a pretty
hard seasoning the first two years I was in this country, and when I set up this camp it was
merely a place to live. I never thought anything about it as being comfortable or otherwise
until you elected to come. I'm not in a position to go in for trimmings. Rough as this camp
is, it will have to go as it stands this summer. I'm up against it for ready money. I've got
none due until I make delivery of those logs in September, and I have to have that million
feet in the water in order to make delivery. Every one of these men but the cook and the donkey
engineer are working for me with their wages deferred until then. There are certain expenses
that must be met with cash--and I've got all my funds figured down to nickels. If I get by
on this contract, I'll have a few hundred to squander on house things. Until then, it's the
simple life for us. You can camp for three or four months, can't you, without finding it completely
unbearable?"

"Why, of course," she protested. "I wasn't complaining about the way things are. I merely voiced
the idea that it would be nice to fix up a little cosier, make these rooms look a little homelike.
I didn't know you were practically compelled to live like this as a matter of economy."

"Well, in a sense, I am," he replied. "And then again, making a place away out here homelike
never struck me as being anything but an inconsequential detail. I'm not trying to make a home
here. I'm after a bundle of money. A while ago, if you had been here and suggested it, you
could have spent five or six hundred, and I wouldn't have missed it. But this contract came
my way, and gave me a chance to clean up three thousand dollars clear profit in four months.
I grabbed it, and I find it's some undertaking. I'm dealing with a hard business outfit, hard
as nails. I might get the banks or some capitalist to finance me, because my timber holdings
are worth money. But I'm shy of that. I've noticed that when a logger starts working on borrowed
capital, he generally goes broke. The financiers generally devise some way to hook him. I prefer
to sail as close to the wind as I can on what little I've got. I can get this timber out--but
it wouldn't look nice, now, would it, for me to be buying furniture when I'm standing these
boys off for their wages till September?"

"I should have been a man," Miss Estella Benton pensively remarked. "Then I could put on overalls
and make myself useful, instead of being a drone. There doesn't seem to be anything here I
can do. I could keep house--only you haven't any house to keep, therefore no need of a housekeeper.
Why, who's that?"

Her ear had caught a low, throaty laugh, a woman's laugh, outside. She looked inquiringly at
her brother. His expression remained absent, as of one concentrated upon his own problems.
She repeated the question.

"That? Oh, Katy John, I suppose, or her mother," he answered. "Siwash bunch camping around
the point. The girl does some washing for us now and then. I suppose she's after Matt for some
bread or something."

Stella looked out. At the cookhouse door stood a short, plump-bodied girl, dark-skinned and
black-haired. Otherwise she conformed to none of Miss Benton's preconceived ideas of the aboriginal
inhabitant. If she had been pinned down, she would probably have admitted that she expected
to behold an Indian maiden garbed in beaded buckskin and brass ornaments. Instead, Katy John
wore a white sailor blouse, a brown pleated skirt, tan shoes, and a bow of baby blue ribbon
in her hair.

"Why, she talks good English," Miss Benton exclaimed, as fragments of the girl's speech floated
over to her.

"Sure. As good as anybody," Charlie drawled. "Why not?"

"Well--er--I suppose my notion of Indians is rather vague," Stella admitted. "Are they all
civilized and educated?"

"Most of 'em," Benton replied. "The younger generation anyhow. Say, Stell, can you cook?"

"A little," Stella rejoined guardedly. "That Indian girl's really pretty, isn't she?"

"They nearly all are when they're young," he observed. "But they are old and tubby by the time
they're thirty."

Katy John's teeth shone white between her parted lips at some sally from the cook. She stood
by the door, swinging a straw hat in one hand. Presently Matt handed her a parcel done up in
newspaper, and she walked away with a nod to some of the loggers sitting with their backs against
the bunkhouse wall.

"Why were you asking if I could cook?" Stella inquired, when the girl vanished in the brush.

"Why, your wail about being a man and putting on overalls and digging in reminded me that if
you liked you may have a chance to get on your apron and show us what you can do," he laughed.
"Matt's about due to go on a tear. He's been on the water-wagon now about his limit. The first
man that comes along with a bottle of whisky, Matt will get it and quit and head for town.
I was wondering if you and Katy John could keep the gang from starving to death if that happened.
The last time I had to get in and cook for two weeks myself. And I can't run a logging crew
from the cook shanty very well."

"I daresay I could manage," Stella returned dubiously. "This seems to be a terrible place for
drinking. Is it the accepted thing to get drunk at all times and in public?"

"It's about the only excitement there is," Benton smiled tolerantly. "I guess there is no more
drinking out here than any other part of this North American continent. Only a man here gets
drunk openly and riotously without any effort to hide it, and without it being considered anything
but a natural lapse. That's one thing you'll have to get used to out here, Stell--I mean, that
what vices men have are all on the surface. We don't get drunk secretly at the club and sneak
home in a taxi. Oh, well, we'll cross the bridge when we come to it. Matt may not break out
for weeks."

He yawned openly.

"Sleepy?" Stella inquired.

"I get up every morning between four and five," he replied. "And I can go to sleep any time
after supper."

"I think I'll take a walk along the beach," she said abruptly.

"All right. Don't hike into the woods and get lost, though."

She circled the segment of bay, climbed a low, rocky point, and found herself a seat on a fallen
tree. Outside the lake heaved uneasily, still dotted with whitecaps whipped up by the southerly
gale. At her feet surge after surge hammered the gravelly shore. Far through the woods behind
her the wind whistled and hummed among swaying tops of giant fir and cedar. There was a heady
freshness in that rollicking wind, an odor resinous and pungent mingled with that elusive smell
of green growing stuff along the shore. Beginning where she sat, tree trunks rose in immense
brown pillars, running back in great forest naves, shadowy always, floored with green moss
laid in a rich, soft carpet for the wood-sprites' feet. Far beyond the long gradual lower slope
lifted a range of saw-backed mountains, the sanctuary of wild goat and bear, and across the
rolling lake lifted other mountains sheer from the water's edge, peaks rising above timber-line
in majestic contour, their pinnacle crests grazing the clouds that scudded before the south wind.

Beauty? Yes. A wild, imposing grandeur that stirred some responsive chord in her. If only one
could live amid such surrounding with a contented mind, she thought, the wilderness would have
compensations of its own. She had an uneasy feeling that isolation from everything that had
played an important part in her life might be the least depressing factor in this new existence.
She could not view the rough and ready standards of the woods with much equanimity--not as
she had that day seen them set forth. These things were bound to be a part of her daily life,
and all the brief span of her years had gone to forming habits of speech and thought and manner
diametrically opposed to what she had so far encountered.

She nursed her chin in her hand and pondered this. She could not see how it was to be avoided.
She was there, and perforce she must stay there. She had no friends to go elsewhere, or training
in the harsh business of gaining a livelihood if she did go. For the first time she began dully
to resent the manner of her upbringing. Once she had desired to enter hospital training, had
been properly enthusiastic for a period of months over a career in this field of mercy. Then,
as now, marriage, while accepted as the ultimate state, was only to be considered through a
haze of idealism and romanticism. She cherished certain ideals of a possible lover and husband,
but always with a false sense of shame. The really serious business of a woman's life was the
one thing to which she made no attempt to apply practical consideration. But her parents had
had positive ideas on that subject, even if they were not openly expressed. Her yearnings after
a useful "career" were skilfully discouraged,--by her mother because that worthy lady thought
it was "scarcely the thing, Stella dear, and so unnecessary"; by her father because, as he
bluntly put it, it would only be a waste of time and money, since the chances were she would
get married before she was half through training, and anyway a girl's place was at home till
she did get married. That was his only reference to the subject of her ultimate disposition
that she could recall, but it was plain enough as far as it went.

It was too late to mourn over lost opportunities now, but she did wish there was some one thing
she could do and do well, some service of value that would guarantee self-support. If she could
only pound a typewriter or keep a set of books, or even make a passable attempt at sewing,
she would have felt vastly more at ease in this rude logging camp, knowing that she could leave
it if she desired.

So far as she could see things, she looked at them with measurable clearness, without any vain
illusions concerning her ability to march triumphant over unknown fields of endeavor. Along
practical lines she had everything to learn. Culture furnishes an excellent pair of wings wherewith
to soar in skies of abstraction, but is a poor vehicle to carry one over rough roads. She might
have remained in Philadelphia, a guest among friends. Pride forbade that. Incidentally, such
an arrangement would have enabled her to stalk a husband, a moneyed husband, which did not
occur to her at all. There remained only to join Charlie. If his fortunes mended, well and
good. Perhaps she could even help in minor ways.

But it was all so radically different--brother and all--from what she had pictured that she
was filled with dismay and not a little foreboding of the future. Sufficient, however, unto
the day was the evil thereof, she told herself at last, and tried to make that assurance work
a change of heart. She was very lonely and depressed and full of a futile wish that she were a man.

Over across the bay some one was playing an accordeon, and to its strains a stout-lunged lumberjack
was roaring out a song, with all his fellows joining strong in the chorus:

  "Oh, the Saginaw Kid was a cook in a camp, way up on the Ocon-to-o-o.
  And the cook in a camp in them old days had a damn hard row to hoe-i-oh!
  Had a damn hard row to hoe."

There was a fine, rollicking air to it. The careless note in their voices, the jovial lilt
of their song, made her envious. They at least had their destiny, limited as it might be and
cast along rude ways, largely under their own control.

Her wandering gaze at length came to rest on a tent top showing in the brush northward from
the camp. She saw two canoes drawn up on the beach above the lash of the waves, two small figures
playing on the gravel, and sundry dogs prowling alongshore. Smoke went eddying away in the
wind. The Siwash camp where Katy John hailed from, Miss Benton supposed.

She had an impulse to skirt the bay and view the Indian camp at closer range, a notion born
of curiosity. She debated this casually, and just as she was about to rise, her movement was
arrested by a faint crackle in the woods behind. She looked away through the deepening shadow
among the trees and saw nothing at first. But the sound was repeated at odd intervals. She
sat still. Thoughts of forest animals slipped into her mind, without making her afraid. At
last she caught sight of a man striding through the timber, soundlessly on the thick moss,
coming almost straight toward her.

He was scarcely fifty yards away. Across his shoulders he bore a reddish-gray burden, and in
his right hand was a gun. She did not move. Bowed slightly under the weight, the man passed
within twenty feet of her, so close that she could see the sweat-beads glisten on that side
of his face, and saw also that the load he carried was the carcass of a deer.

Gaining the beach and laying the animal across a boulder, he straightened himself up and drew
a long breath. Then he wiped the sweat off his face. She recognized him as the man who had
thrown the logger down the slip that day at noon,--presumably Jack Fyfe. A sturdily built man
about thirty, of Saxon fairness, with a tinge of red in his hair and a liberal display of freckles
across nose and cheek bones. He was no beauty, she decided, albeit he displayed a frank and
pleasing countenance. That he was a remarkably strong and active man she had seen for herself,
and if the firm round of his jaw counted for anything, an individual of considerable determination
besides. Miss Benton conceived herself to be possessed of considerable skill at character analysis.

He put away his handkerchief, took up his rifle, settled his hat, and strode off toward the
camp. Her attention now diverted from the Siwashes, she watched him, saw him go to her brother's
quarters, stand in the door a minute, then go back to the beach accompanied by Charlie.

In a minute or so he came rowing across in a skiff, threw his deer aboard, and pulled away
north along the shore.

She watched him lift and fall among the waves until he turned a point, rowing with strong,
even strokes. Then she walked home. Benton was poring over some figures, but he pushed aside
his pencil and paper when she entered.

"You had a visitor, I see," she remarked.

"Yes, Jack Fyfe. He picked up a deer on the ridge behind here and borrowed a boat to get home."

"I saw him come out of the woods," she said. "His camp can't be far from here, is it? He only
left the Springs as you came in. Does he hunt deer for sport?"

"Hardly. Oh, well, I suppose it's sport for Jack, in a way. He's always piking around in the
woods with a gun or a fishing rod," Benton returned. "But we kill 'em to eat mostly. It's good
meat and cheap. I get one myself now and then. However, you want to keep that under your hat--about
us fellows hunting--or we'll have game wardens nosing around here."

"Are you not allowed to hunt them?" she asked.

"Not in close season. Hunting season's from September to December."

"If it's unlawful, why break the law?" she ventured hesitatingly. "Isn't that rather--er--"

"Oh, bosh," Charlie derided. "A man in the woods is entitled to venison, if he's hunter enough
to get it. The woods are full of deer, and a few more or less don't matter. We can't run forty
miles to town and back and pay famine prices for beef every two or three days, when we can
get it at home in the woods."

Stella digested this in silence, but it occurred to her that this mild sample of lawlessness
was quite in keeping with the men and the environment. There was no policeman on the corner,
no mechanism of law and order visible anywhere. The characteristic attitude of these woodsmen
was of intolerance for restraint, of complete self-sufficiency. It had colored her brother's
point of view. She perceived that whereas all her instinct was to know the rules of the game
and abide by them, he, taking his cue from his environment, inclined to break rules that proved
inconvenient, even to formulate new ones to apply.

"And suppose," said she, "that a game warden should catch you or Mr. Jack Fyfe killing deer
out of season?"

"We'd be hauled up and fined a hundred dollars or so," he told her. "But they don't catch us."

He shrugged his shoulders, and smiling tolerantly upon her, proceeded to smoke.

Dusk was falling now, the long twilight of the northern seasons gradually deepening, as they
sat in silence. Along the creek bank arose the evening chorus of the frogs. The air, now hushed
and still, was riven every few minutes by the whir of wings as ducks in evening flight swept
by above. All the boisterous laughter and talk in the bunkhouse had died. The woods ranged
gloomy and impenetrable, save only in the northwest, where a patch of sky lighted by diffused
pink and gray revealed one mountain higher than its fellows standing bald against the horizon.

"Well, I guess it's time to turn in." Benton muffled a yawn. "Pleasant dreams, Sis. Oh, here's
your purse. I used part of the bank roll. You won't have much use for money up here, anyway."

He flipped the purse across to her and sauntered into his bedroom. Stella sat gazing thoughtfully
at the vast bulk of Mount Douglas a few minutes longer. Then she too went into the box-like
room, the bare discomfort of which chilled her merely to behold.

With a curious uncertainty, a feeling of reluctance for the proceeding almost, she examined
the contents of her purse. For a little time she stood gazing into it, a queer curl to her
full red lips. Then she flung it contemptuously on the bed and began to take down her hair.

"'A rich, rough, tough country, where it doesn't do to be finicky about anything,'" she murmured,
quoting a line from one of Charlie Benton's letters. "It would appear to be rather unpleasantly
true. Particularly the last clause."

In her purse, which had contained one hundred and ten dollars, there now reposed in solitary
state a twenty-dollar bill.

CHAPTER V

THE TOLL OF BIG TIMBER

Day came again, in the natural sequence of events. Matt, the cook, roused all the camp at six
o'clock with a tremendous banging on a piece of boiler plate hung by a wire. Long before that
Stella heard her brother astir. She wondered sleepily at his sprightliness, for as she remembered
him at home he had been a confirmed lie-abed. She herself responded none too quickly to the
breakfast gong, as a result of which slowness the crew had filed away to the day's work, her
brother striding in the lead, when she entered the mess-house.

She killed time with partial success till noon. Several times she was startled to momentary
attention by the prolonged series of sharp cracks which heralded the thunderous crash of a
falling tree. There were other sounds which betokened the loggers' activity in the near-by
forest,--the ringing whine of saw blades, the dull stroke of the axe, voices calling distantly.

She tried to interest herself in the camp and the beach and ended up by sitting on a log in
a shady spot, staring dreamily over the lake. She thought impatiently of that homely saw concerning
Satan and idle hands, but she reflected also that in this isolation even mischief was comparatively
impossible. There was not a soul to hold speech with except the cook, and he was too busy to
talk, even if he had not been afflicted with a painful degree of diffidence when she addressed
him. She could make no effort at settling down, at arranging things in what was to be her home.
There was nothing to arrange, no odds and ends wherewith almost any woman can conjure up a
homelike effect in the barest sort of place. She beheld the noon return of the crew much as
a shipwrecked castaway on a desert shore might behold a rescuing sail, and she told Charlie
that she intended to go into the woods that afternoon and watch them work.

"All right," said he. "Just so you don't get in the way of a falling tree."

A narrow fringe of brush and scrubby timber separated the camp from the actual work. From the
water's edge to the donkey engine was barely four hundred yards. From donkey to a ten-foot
jump-off on the lake shore in a straight line on a five per cent. gradient ran a curious roadway,
made by placing two logs in the hollow scooped by tearing great timbers over the soft earth,
and a bigger log on each side. Butt to butt and side to side, the outer sticks half their thickness
above the inner, they formed a continuous trough the bottom and sides worn smooth with friction
of sliding timbers. Stella had crossed it the previous evening and wondered what it was. Now,
watching them at work, she saw. Also she saw why the great stumps that rose in every clearing
in this land of massive trees were sawed six and eight feet above the ground. Always at the
base the firs swelled sharply. Wherefore the falling gangs lifted themselves above the enlargement
to make their cut.

Two sawyers attacked a tree. First, with their double-bitted axes, each drove a deep notch
into the sapwood just wide enough to take the end of a two-by-six plank four or five feet long
with a single grab-nail in the end,--the springboard of the Pacific coast logger, whose daily
business lies among the biggest timber on God's footstool. Each then clambered up on his precarious
perch, took hold of his end of the long, limber saw, and cut in to a depth of a foot or more,
according to the size of the tree. Then jointly they chopped down to this sawed line, and there
was the undercut complete, a deep notch on the side to which the tree would fall. That done,
they swung the ends of their springboards, or if it were a thick trunk, made new holding notches
on the other side, and the long saw would eat steadily through the heart of the tree toward
that yellow, gashed undercut, stroke upon stroke, ringing with a thin, metallic twang. Presently
there would arise an ominous cracking. High in the air the tall crest would dip slowly, as
if it bowed with manifest reluctance to the inevitable. The sawyers would drop lightly from
their springboards, crying:

"Tim-ber-r-r-r!"

The earthward swoop of the upper boughs would hasten till the air was full of a whistling,
whishing sound. Then came the rending crash as the great tree smashed prone, crushing what
small timber stood in its path, followed by the earth-quivering shock of its impact with the
soil. The tree once down, the fallers went on to another. Immediately the swampers fell upon
the prone trunk with axes, denuding it of limbs; the buckers followed them to saw it into lengths
decreed by the boss logger. When the job was done, the brown fir was no longer a stately tree
but saw-logs, each with the square butt that lay donkeyward, trimmed a trifle rounding with
the axe.

Benton worked one falling gang. The falling gang raced to keep ahead of the buckers and swampers,
and they in turn raced to keep ahead of the hook tender, rigging slinger, and donkey, which
last trio moved the logs from woods to water, once they were down and trimmed. Terrible, devastating
forces of destruction they seemed to Stella Benton, wholly unused as she was to any woodland
save the well-kept parks and little areas of groomed forest in her native State. All about
in the ravaged woods lay the big logs, scores of them. They had only begun to pull with the
donkey a week earlier, Benton explained to her. With his size gang he could not keep a donkey
engine working steadily. So they had felled and trimmed to a good start, and now the falling
crew and the swampers and buckers were in a dingdong contest to see how long they could keep
ahead of the puffing Seattle yarder.

Stella sat on a stump, watching. Over an area of many acres the ground was a litter of broken
limbs, ragged tops, crushed and bent and broken younger growth, twisted awry by the big trees
in their fall. Huge stumps upthrust like beacons in a ruffled harbor, grim, massive butts.
From all the ravaged wood rose a pungent smell of pitch and sap, a resinous, pleasant smell.
Radiating like the spokes of a wheel from the head of the chute ran deep, raw gashes in the
earth, where the donkey had hauled up the Brobdingnagian logs on the end of an inch cable.

"This is no small boy's play, is it, Stell?" Charlie said to her once in passing.

And she agreed that it was not. Agreed more emphatically and with half-awed wonder when she
saw the donkey puff and quiver on its anchor cable, as the hauling line spooled up on the drum.
On the outer end of that line snaked a sixty-foot stick, five feet across the butt, but it
came down to the chute head, brushing earth and brush and small trees aside as if they were
naught. Once the big log caromed against a stump. The rearward end flipped ten feet in the
air and thirty feet sidewise. But it came clear and slid with incredible swiftness to the head
of the chute, flinging aside showers of dirt and small stones, and leaving one more deep furrow
in the forest floor. Benton trotted behind it. Once it came to rest well in the chute, he unhooked
the line, freed the choker (the short noosed loop of cable that slips over the log's end),
and the haul-back cable hurried the main line back to another log. Benton followed, and again
the donkey shuddered on its foundation skids till another log laid in the chute, with its end
butted against that which lay before. One log after another was hauled down till half a dozen
rested there, elongated peas in a wooden pod.

Then a last big stick came with a rush, bunted these others powerfully so that they began to
slide with the momentum thus imparted, slowly at first then, gathering way and speed, they
shot down to the lake and plunged to the water over the ten-foot jump-off like a school of
breaching whales.

All this took time, vastly more time than it takes in the telling. The logs were ponderous
masses. They had to be maneuvered sometimes between stumps and standing timber, jerked this
way and that to bring them into the clear. By four o'clock Benton and his rigging-slinger had
just finished bunting their second batch of logs down the chute. Stella watched these Titanic
labors with a growing interest and a dawning vision of why these men walked the earth with
that reckless swing of their shoulders. For they were palpably masters in their environment.
They strove with woodsy giants and laid them low. Amid constant dangers they sweated at a task
that shamed the seven labors of Hercules. Gladiators they were in a contest from which they
did not always emerge victorious.

When Benton and his helper followed the haul-back line away to the domain of the falling gang
the last time, Stella had so far unbent as to strike up conversation with the donkey engineer.
That greasy individual finished stoking his fire box and replied to her first comment.

"Work? You bet," said he. "It's real graft, this is. I got the easy end of it, and mine's no
snap. I miss a signal, big stick butts against something solid; biff! goes the line and maybe
cuts a man plumb in two. You got to be wide awake when you run a loggin' donkey. These woods
is no place for a man, anyway, if he ain't spry both in his head and feet."

"Do many men get hurt logging?" Stella asked. "It looks awfully dangerous, with these big trees
falling and smashing everything. Look at that. Goodness!"

From the donkey they could see a shower of ragged splinters and broken limbs fly when a two-hundred-foot
fir smashed a dead cedar that stood in the way of its downward swoop. They could hear the pieces
strike against brush and trees like the patter of shot on a tin wall.

The donkey engineer gazed calmly enough.

"Them flyin' chunks raise the dickens sometimes," he observed. "Oh, yes, now an' then a man
gets laid out. There's some things you got to take a chance on. Maybe you get cut with an axe,
or a limb drops on you, or you get in the way of a breakin' line,--though a man ain't got any
business in the bight of a line. A man don't stand much show when the end of a inch 'n' a quarter
cable snaps at him like a whiplash. I seen a feller on Howe Sound cut square in two with a
cable-end once. A broken block's the worst, though. That generally gets the riggin' slinger,
but a piece of it's liable to hit anybody. You see them big iron pulley blocks the haul-back
cable works in? Well, sometimes they have to anchor a snatch block to a stump an' run the main
line through it at an angle to get a log out the way you want. Suppose the block breaks when
I'm givin' it to her? Chunks uh that broken cast iron'll fly like bullets. Yes, sir, broken
blocks is bad business. Maybe you noticed the boys used the snatch block two or three times
this afternoon? We've been lucky in this camp all spring. Nobody so much as nicked himself
with an axe. Breaks in the gear don't come very often, anyway, with an outfit in first-class
shape. We got good gear an' a good crew--about as skookum a bunch as I ever saw in the woods."

Two hundred yards distant Charlie Benton rose on a stump and semaphored with his arms. The
engineer whistled answer and stood to his levers; the main line began to spool slowly in on
the drum. Another signal, and he shut off. Another signal, after a brief wait, and the drum
rolled faster, the line tautened like a fiddle-string, and the ponderous machine vibrated with
the strain of its effort.

Suddenly the line came slack. Stella, watching for the log to appear, saw her brother leap
backward off the stump, saw the cable whip sidewise, mowing down a clump of saplings that stood
in the bight of the line, before the engineer could cut off the power. In that return of comparative
silence there rose above the sibilant hiss of the blow-off valve a sudden commotion of voices.

"Damn!" the donkey engineer peered over the brush. "That don't sound good. I guess somebody
got it in the neck."

Almost immediately Sam Davis and two other men came running.

"What's up?" the engineer called as they passed on a dog trot.

"Block broke," Davis answered over his shoulder. "Piece of it near took a leg off Jim Renfrew."

Stella stood a moment, hesitating.

"I may be able to do something. I'll go and see," she said.

"Better not," the engineer warned. "Liable to run into something that'll about turn your stomach.
What was I tellin' about a broken block? Them ragged pieces of flyin' iron sure mess a man
up. They'll bring a bed spring, an' pack him down to the boat, an' get him to a doctor quick
as they can. That's all. You couldn't do nothin'."

Nevertheless she went. Renfrew was the rigging slinger working with Charlie, a big, blond man
who blushed like a schoolboy when Benton introduced him to her. Twenty minutes before he had
gone trotting after the haul-back, sound and hearty, laughing at some sally of her brother's.
It seemed a trifle incredible that he should lie mangled and bleeding among the green forest
growth, while his fellows hurried for a stretcher.

Two hundred yards at right angles from where Charlie had stood giving signals she found a little
group under a branchy cedar. Renfrew lay on his back, mercifully unconscious. Benton squatted
beside him, twisting a silk handkerchief with a stick tightly above the wound. His hands and
Renfrew's clothing and the mossy ground was smeared with blood. Stella looked over his shoulder.
The overalls were cut away. In the thick of the man's thigh stood a ragged gash she could have
laid both hands in. She drew back.

Benton looked up.

"Better keep away," he advised shortly. "We've done all that can be done."

She retreated a little and sat down on a root, half-sickened. The other two men stood up. Benton
sat back, his first-aid work done, and rolled a cigarette with fingers that shook a little.
Off to one side she saw the fallers climb up on their springboards. Presently arose the ringing
whine of the thin steel blade, the chuck of axes where the swampers attacked a fallen tree.
No matter, she thought, that injury came to one, that death might hover near, the work went
on apace, like action on a battlefield.

A few minutes thereafter the two men who had gone with Sam Davis returned with the spring from
Benton's bed and a light mattress. They laid the injured logger on this and covered him with
a blanket. Then four of them picked it up. As they started, Stella heard one say to her brother:

"Matt's jagged."

"What?" Benton exploded. "Where'd it come from?"

"One uh them Hungry Bay shingle-bolt cutters's in camp," the logger answered. "Maybe he brought
a bottle. I didn't stop to see. But Matt's sure got a tank full."

Benton ripped out an angry oath, passed his men, and strode away down the path. Stella fell
in behind him, wakened to a sudden uneasiness at the wrathful set of his features. She barely
kept in sight, so rapidly did he move.

Sam Davis had smoke pouring from the Chickamin's stack, but the kitchen pipe lifted no blue
column, though it was close to five o'clock. Benton made straight for the cookhouse. Stella
followed, a trifle uncertainly. A glimpse past Charlie as he came out showed her Matt staggering
aimlessly about the kitchen, red-eyed, scowling, muttering to himself. Benton hurried to the
bunkhouse door, much as a hound might follow a scent, peered in, and went on to the corner.

On the side facing the lake he found the source of the cook's intoxication. A tall and swarthy
lumberjack squatted on his haunches, gabbling in the Chinook jargon to a klootchman and a wizen-featured
old Siwash. The Indian woman was drunk beyond any mistaking, affably drunk. She looked up at
Benton out of vacuous eyes, grinned, and extended to him a square-faced bottle of Old Tim gin.
The logger rose to his feet.

"H'lo, Benton," he greeted thickly. "How's every-thin'?"

Benton's answer was a quick lurch of his body and a smashing jab of his clenched fist. The
blow stretched the logger on his back, with blood streaming from both nostrils. But he was
a hardy customer, for he bounced up like a rubber ball, only to be floored even more viciously
before he was well set on his feet. This time Benton snarled a curse and kicked him as he lay.

"Charlie, Charlie!" Stella screamed.

If he heard her, he gave no heed.

"Hit the trail, you," he shouted at the logger. "Hit it quick before I tramp your damned face
into the ground. I told you once not to come around here feeding booze to my cook. I do all
the whisky-drinking that's done in this camp, and don't you forget it. Damn your eyes, I've
got troubles enough without whisky."

The man gathered himself up, badly shaken, and holding his hand to his bleeding nose, made
off to his rowboat at the float.

"G'wan home," Benton curtly ordered the Siwashes. "Get drunk at your own camp, not in mine.
Sabe? Beat it."

They scuttled off, the wizened little old man steadying his fat klootch along her uncertain
way. Down on the lake the chastised logger stood out in his boat, resting once on his oars
to shake a fist at Benton. Then Charlie faced about on his shocked and outraged sister.

"Good Heavens!" she burst out. "Is it necessary to be so downright brutal in actions as well
as speech?"

"I'm running a logging camp, not a kindergarten," he snapped angrily. "I know what I'm doing.
If you don't like it, go in the house where your hyper-sensitive tastes won't be offended."

"Thank you," she responded cuttingly and swung about, angry and hurt--only to have a fresh
scare from the drunken cook, who came reeling forward.

"I'm gonna quit," he loudly declared. "I ain't goin' to stick 'round here no more. The job's
no good. I want m' time. Yuh hear me, Benton. I'm through. Com-pletely, ab-sho-lutely through.
You bet I am. Gimme m' time. I'm a gone goose."

"Quit, then, hang you," Benton growled. "You'll get your check in a minute. You're a fine excuse
for a cook, all right--get drunk right on the job. You don't need to show up here again, when
you've had your jag out."

"'S all right," Matt declared largely. "'S other jobs. You ain't the whole Pacific coast. Oh,
way down 'pon the Swa-a-nee ribber--"

He broke into dolorous song and turned back into the cookhouse. Benton's hard-set face relaxed.
He laughed shortly.

"Takes all kinds to make a world," he commented. "Don't look so horrified, Sis. This isn't
the regular order of events. It's just an accumulation--and it sort of got me going. Here's
the boys."

The four stretcher men set down their burden in the shade of the bunkhouse. Renfrew was conscious
now.

"Tough luck, Jim," Benton sympathized. "Does it pain much?"

Renfrew shook his head. White and weakened from shock and loss of blood, nevertheless he bravely
disclaimed pain.

"We'll get you fixed up at the Springs," Benton went on. "It's a nasty slash in the meat, but
I don't think the bone was touched. You'll be on deck before long. I'll see you through, anyway."

They gave him a drink of water and filled his pipe, joking him about easy days in the hospital
while they sweated in the woods. The drunken cook came out, carrying his rolled blankets, began
maudlin sympathy, and was promptly squelched, whereupon he retreated to the float, emitting
conversation to the world at large. Then they carried Renfrew down to the float, and Davis
began to haul up the anchor to lay the Chickamin alongside.

While the chain was still chattering in the hawse pipe, the squat black hull of Jack Fyfe's
tender rounded the nearest point.

"Whistle him up, Sam," Benton ordered. "Jack can beat our time, and this bleeding must be stopped
quick."

The tender veered in from her course at the signal. Fyfe himself was at the wheel. Five minutes
effected a complete arrangement, and the Panther drew off with the drunken cook singing atop
of the pilot house, and Renfrew comfortable in her cabin, and Jack Fyfe's promise to see him
properly installed and attended in the local hospital at Roaring Springs.

Benton heaved a sigh of relief and turned to his sister.

"Still mad, Stell?" he asked placatingly and put his arm over her shoulders.

"Of course not," she responded instantly to this kindlier phase. "Ugh! Your hands are all bloody,
Charlie."

"That's so, but it'll wash off," he replied. "Well, we're shy a good woodsman and a cook, and
I'll miss 'em both. But it might be worse. Here's where you go to bat, Stella. Get on your
apron and lend me a hand in the kitchen, like a good girl. We have to eat, no matter what happens."

CHAPTER VI

THE DIGNITY (?) OF TOIL

By such imperceptible degrees that she was scarce aware of it, Stella took her place as a cog
in her brother's logging machine, a unit in the human mechanism which he operated skilfully
and relentlessly at top speed to achieve his desired end--one million feet of timber in boomsticks
by September the first.

From the evening that she stepped into the breach created by a drunken cook, the kitchen burden
settled steadily upon her shoulders. For a week Benton daily expected and spoke of the arrival
of a new cook. Fyfe had wired a Vancouver employment agency to send one, the day he took Jim
Renfrew down. But either cooks were scarce, or the order went astray, for no rough and ready
kitchen mechanic arrived. Benton in the meantime ceased to look for one. He worked like a horse,
unsparing of himself, unsparing of others. He rose at half-past four, lighted the kitchen fire,
roused Stella, and helped her prepare breakfast, preliminary to his day in the woods. Later
he impressed Katy John into service to wait on the table and wash dishes. He labored patiently
to teach Stella certain simple tricks of cooking that she did not know.

Quick of perception, as thorough as her brother in whatsoever she set her hand to do, Stella
was soon equal to the job. And as the days passed and no camp cook came to their relief, Benton
left the job to her as a matter of course.

"You can handle that kitchen with Katy as well as a man," he said to her at last. "And it will
give you something to occupy your time. I'd have to pay a cook seventy dollars a month. Katy
draws twenty-five. You can credit yourself with the balance, and I'll pay off when the contract
money comes in. We might as well keep the coin in the family. I'll feel easier, because you
won't get drunk and jump the job in a pinch. What do you say?"

She said the only possible thing to say under the circumstances. But she did not say it with
pleasure, nor with any feeling of gratitude. It was hard work, and she and hard work were utter
strangers. Her feet ached from continual standing on them. The heat and the smell of stewing
meat and vegetables sickened her. Her hands were growing rough and red from dabbling in water,
punching bread dough, handling the varied articles of food that go to make up a meal. Upon
hands and forearms there stung continually certain small cuts and burns that lack of experience
over a hot range inevitably inflicted upon her. Whereas time had promised to hang heavy on
her hands, now an hour of idleness in the day became a precious boon.

Yet in her own way she was as full of determination as her brother. She saw plainly enough
that she must leave the drone stage behind. She perceived that to be fed and clothed and housed
and to have her wishes readily gratified was not an inherent right--that some one must foot
the bill--that now for all she received she must return equitable value. At home she had never
thought of it in that light; in fact, she had never thought of it at all. Now that she was
beginning to get a glimmering of her true economic relation to the world at large, she had
no wish to emulate the clinging vine, even if thereby she could have secured a continuance
of that silk-lined existence which had been her fortunate lot. Her pride revolted against parasitism.
It was therefore a certain personal satisfaction to have achieved self-support at a stroke,
insofar as that in the sweat of her brow,--all too literally,--she earned her bread and a compensation
besides. But there were times when that solace seemed scarcely to weigh against her growing
detest for the endless routine of her task, the exasperating physical weariness and irritations
it brought upon her.

For to prepare three times daily food for a dozen hungry men is no mean undertaking. One cannot
have in a logging camp the conveniences of a hotel kitchen. The water must be carried in buckets
from the creek near by, and wood brought in armfuls from the pile of sawn blocks outside. The
low-roofed kitchen shanty was always like an oven. The flies swarmed in their tens of thousands.
As the men sweated with axe and saw in the woods, so she sweated in the kitchen. And her work
began two hours before their day's labor, and continued two hours after they were done. She
slept, like one exhausted and rose full of sleep-heaviness, full of bodily soreness and spiritual
protest when the alarm clock raised its din in the cool morning.

"You don't like thees work, do you, Mees Benton?" Katy John said to her one day, in the soft,
slurring accent that colored her English. "You wasn't cut out for a cook."

"This isn't work," Stella retorted irritably. "It's simple drudgery. I don't wonder that men
cooks take to drink."

Katy laughed.

"Why don't you be nice to Mr. Abbey," she suggested archly. "He'd like to give you a better
job than thees--for life. My, but it must be nice to have lots of money like that man's got,
and never have to work."

"You'll get those potatoes peeled sooner if you don't talk quite so much, Katy," Miss Benton
made reply.

There was that way out, as the Siwash girl broadly indicated. Paul Abbey had grown into the
habit of coming there rather more often than mere neighborliness called for, and it was palpable
that he did not come to hold converse with Benton or Benton's gang, although he was "hail fellow"
with all woodsmen. At first his coming might have been laid to any whim. Latterly Stella herself
was unmistakably the attraction. He brought his sister once, a fair-haired girl about Stella's
age. She proved an exceedingly self-contained young person, whose speech during the hour of
her stay amounted to a dozen or so drawling sentences. With no hint of condescension or superciliousness,
she still managed to arouse in Stella a mild degree of resentment. She wore an impeccable pongee
silk, simple and costly, and her hands had evidently never known the roughening of work. In
one way and another Miss Benton straightway conceived an active dislike for Linda Abbey. As
her reception of Paul's sister was not conducive to chumminess, Paul did not bring Linda again.

But he came oftener than Stella desired to be bothered with him. Charlie was beginning to indulge
in some rather broad joking, which offended and irritated her. She was not in the least attracted
to Paul Abbey. He was a nice enough young man; for all she knew, he might be a concentration
of all the manly virtues, but he gave no fillip to either her imagination or her emotions.
He was too much like a certain type of young fellow she had known in other embodiments. Her
instinct warned her that stripped of his worldly goods he would be wholly commonplace. She
could be friends with the Paul Abbey kind of man, but when she tried to consider him as a possible
lover, she found herself unresponsive, even amused. She was forced to consider it, because
Abbey was fast approaching that stage. It was heralded in the look of dumb appeal that she
frequently surprised in his gaze, by various signs and tokens, that Stella Benton was too sophisticated
to mistake. One of these days he would lay his heart, and hand at her feet.

Sometimes she considered what her life might be if she should marry him. Abbey was wealthy
in his own right and heir to more wealth. But--she could not forbear a wry grimace at the idea.
Some fateful hour love would flash across her horizon, a living flame. She could visualize
the tragedy if it should be too late, if it found her already bound--sold for a mess of pottage
at her ease. She did not mince words to herself when she reflected on this matter. She knew
herself as a creature of passionate impulses, consciously resenting all restraint. She knew
that men and women did mad things under the spur of emotion. She wanted no shackles, she wanted
to be free to face the great adventure when it came.

Yet there were times during the weeks that flitted past when it seemed to her that no bondage
could be meaner, more repugnant, than that daily slavery in her brother's kitchen; that transcendent
conceptions of love and marriage were vain details by comparison with aching feet and sleep-heavy
eyes, with the sting of burns, the smart of sweat on her face, all the never-ending trifles
that so irritated her. She had been spoiled in the making for so sordid an existence. Sometimes
she would sit amid the array of dishes and pans and cooking food and wonder if she really were
the same being whose life had been made up of books and music, of teas and dinners and plays,
of light, inconsequential chatter with genial, well-dressed folk. There was no one to talk
to here and less time to talk. There was nothing to read except a batch of newspapers filtering
into camp once a week or ten days. There was not much in this monster stretch of giant timber
but heat and dirt and flies and hungry men who must be fed.

If Paul Abbey had chanced to ask her to marry him during a period of such bodily and spiritual
rebellion, she would probably have committed herself to that means of escape in sheer desperation.
For she did not harden to the work; it steadily sapped both her strength and patience. But
he chose an ill time for his declaration. Stella had overtaken her work and snared a fleeting
hour of idleness in mid-afternoon of a hot day in early August. Under a branchy alder at the
cook-house-end she piled all the pillows she could commandeer in their quarters and curled
herself upon them at grateful ease. Like a tired animal, she gave herself up to the pleasure
of physical relaxation, staring at a perfect turquoise sky through the whispering leaves above.
She was not even thinking. She was too tired to think, and for the time being too much at peace
to permit thought that would, in the very nature of things, be disturbing.

Abbey maintained for his own pleasure a fast motorboat. He slid now into the bay unheard, tied
up beside the float, walked to the kitchen, glanced in, then around the corner, and smilingly
took a seat on the grass near her.

"It's too perfect a day to loaf in the shade," he observed, after a brief exchange of commonplaces.
"Won't you come out for a little spin on the lake? A ride in the Wolf will put some color in
your cheeks."

"If I had time," she said, "I would. But loggers must eat though the heavens fall. In about
twenty minutes I'll have to start supper. I'll have color enough, goodness knows once I get
over that stove."

Abbey picked nervously at a blade of grass for a minute.

"This is a regular dog's life for you," he broke out suddenly.

"Oh, hardly that," she protested. "It's a little hard on me because I haven't been used to
it, that's all."

"It's Chinaman's work," he said hotly. "Charlie oughtn't to let you stew in that kitchen."

Stella said nothing; she was not moved to the defence of her brother. She was loyal enough
to her blood, but not so intensely loyal that she could defend him against criticism that struck
a responsive chord in her own mind. She was beginning to see that, being useful, Charlie was
making use of her. His horizon had narrowed to logs that might be transmuted into money. Enslaved
himself by his engrossing purposes, he thought nothing of enslaving others to serve his end.
She had come to a definite conclusion about that, and she meant to collect her wages when he
sold his logs, collect also the ninety dollars of her money he had coolly appropriated, and
try a different outlet. If one must work, one might at least seek work a little to one's taste.
She therefore dismissed Abbey's comment carelessly:

"Some one has to do it."

A faint flush crept slowly up into his round, boyish face. He looked at her with disconcerting
steadiness. Perhaps something in his expression gave her the key to his thought, or it may
have been that peculiar psychical receptiveness which in a woman we are pleased to call intuition;
but at any rate Stella divined what was coming and would have forestalled it by rising. He
prevented that move by catching her hands.

"Look here, Stella," he blurted out, "it just grinds me to death to see you slaving away in
this camp, feeding a lot of roughnecks. Won't you marry me and cut this sort of thing out?
We'd be no end good chums."

She gently disengaged her hands, her chief sensation one of amusement, Abbey was in such an
agony of blushing diffidence, all flustered at his own temerity. Also, she thought, a trifle
precipitate. That was not the sort of wooing to carry her off her feet. For that matter she
was quite sure nothing Paul Abbey could do or say would ever stir her pulses. She had to put
an end to the situation, however. She took refuge in a flippant manner.

"Thanks for the compliment, Mr. Abbey," she smiled. "But really I couldn't think of inflicting
repentance at leisure on you in that offhand way. You wouldn't want me to marry you just so
I could resign the job of chef, would you?"

"Don't you like me?" he asked plaintively.

"Not that way," she answered positively.

"You might try," he suggested hopefully. "Honest, I'm crazy about you. I've liked you ever
since I saw you first. I wouldn't want any greater privilege than to marry you and take you
away from this sort of thing. You're too good for it. Maybe I'm kind of sudden, but I know
my own mind. Can't you take a chance with me?"

"I'm sorry," she said gently, seeing him so sadly in earnest. "It isn't a question of taking
a chance. I don't care for you. I haven't got any feeling but the mildest sort of friendliness.
If I married you, it would only be for a home, as the saying is. And I'm not made that way.
Can't you see how impossible it would be?"

"You'd get to like me," he declared. "I'm just as good as the next man."

His smooth pink-and-white skin reddened again.

"That sounds a lot like tooting my own horn mighty strong," said he. "But I'm in dead earnest.
If there isn't anybody else yet, you could like me just as well as the next fellow. I'd be
awfully good to you."

"I daresay you would," she said quietly. "But I couldn't be good to you. I don't want to marry
you, Mr. Abbey. That's final. All the feeling I have for you isn't enough for any woman to
marry on."

"Maybe not," he said dolefully. "I suppose that's the way it goes. Hang it, I guess I was a
little too sudden. But I'm a stayer. Maybe you'll change your mind some time."

He was standing very near her, and they were both so intent upon the momentous business that
occupied them that neither noticed Charlie Benton until his hail startled them to attention.

"Hello, folks," he greeted and passed on into the cook shanty, bestowing upon Stella, over
Abbey's shoulder, a comprehensive grin which nettled her exceedingly. Her peaceful hour had
been disturbed to no purpose. She did not want to love or be loved. For the moment she felt
old beyond her years, mature beyond the comprehension of any man. If she had voiced her real
attitude toward Paul Abbey, she would have counseled him to run and play, "like a good little boy."

Instead she remarked: "I must get to work," and left her downcast suitor without further ceremony.

As she went about her work in the kitchen, she saw Abbey seat himself upon a log in the yard,
his countenance wreathed in gloom. He was presently joined by her brother. Glancing out, now
and then, she made a guess at the meat of their talk, and her lip curled slightly. She saw
them walk down to Abbey's launch, and Charlie delivered an encouraging slap on Paul's shoulder
as he embarked. Then the speedy craft tore out of the bay at a headlong gait, her motor roaring
in unmuffled exhaust, wide wings of white spray arching off her flaring bows.

"The desperate recklessness of thwarted affection--fiddlesticks!" Miss Benton observed in sardonic
mood. Her hands were deep in pie dough. She thumped it viciously. The kitchen and the flies
and all the rest of it rasped at her nerves again.

Charlie came into the kitchen, hunted a cookie out of the tin box where such things were kept,
and sat swinging one leg over a corner of the table, eying her critically while he munched.

"So you turned Paul down, eh?" he said at last. "You're the prize chump. You've missed the
best chance you'll ever have to put yourself on Easy Street."

CHAPTER VII

SOME NEIGHBORLY ASSISTANCE

For a week thereafter Benton developed moods of sourness, periods of scowling thought. He tried
to speed up his gang, and having all spring driven them at top speed, the added straw broke
the back of their patience, and Stella heard some sharp interchanges of words. He quelled one
incipient mutiny through sheer dominance, but it left him more short of temper, more crabbedly
moody than ever. Eventually his ill-nature broke out against Stella over some trifle, and she--being
herself an aggrieved party to his transactions--surprised her own sense of the fitness of things
by retaliating in kind.

"I'm slaving away in your old camp from daylight till dark at work I despise, and you can't
even speak decently to me," she flared up. "You act like a perfect brute lately. What's the
matter with you?"

Benton gnawed at a finger nail in silence.

"Hang it, I guess you're right," he admitted at last. "But I can't help having a grouch. I'm
going to fall behind on this contract, the best I can do."

"Well," she replied tartly. "I'm not to blame for that. I'm not responsible for your failure.
Why take it out on me?"

"I don't, particularly," he answered. "Only--can't you sabe? A man gets on edge when he works
and sweats for months and sees it all about to come to nothing."

"So does a woman," she made pointed retort.

Benton chose to ignore the inference.

"If I fall down on this, it'll just about finish me," he continued glumly. "These people are
not going to allow me an inch leeway. I'll have to deliver on that contract to the last stipulated
splinter before they'll pay over a dollar. If I don't have a million feet for 'em three weeks
from to-day, it's all off, and maybe a suit for breach of contract besides. That's the sort
they are. If they can wiggle out of taking my logs, they'll be to the good, because they've
made other contracts down the coast at fifty cents a thousand less. And the aggravating thing
about it is that if I could get by with this deal, I can close a five-million-foot contract
with the Abbey-Monohan outfit, for delivery next spring. I must have the money for this before
I can undertake the bigger contract."

"Can't you sell your logs if these other people won't take them?" she asked, somewhat alive
now to his position--and, incidentally, her own interest therein.

"In time, yes," he said. "But when you go into the open market with logs, you don't always
find a buyer right off the reel. I'd have to hire 'em towed from here to Vancouver, and there's
some bad water to get over. Time is money to me right now, Stell. If the thing dragged over
two or three months, by the time they were sold and all expenses paid, I might not have anything
left. I'm in debt for supplies, behind in wages. When it looks like a man's losing, everybody
jumps him. That's business. I may have my outfit seized and sold up if I fall down on this
delivery and fail to square up accounts right away. Damn it, if you hadn't given Paul Abbey
the cold turn-down, I might have got a boost over this hill. You were certainly a chump."

"I'm not a mere pawn in your game yet," she flared hotly. "I suppose you'd trade me for logs
enough to complete your contract and consider it a good bargain."

"Oh, piffle," he answered coolly. "What's the use talking like that. It's your game as much
as mine. Where do you get off, if I go broke? You might have done a heap worse. Paul's a good
head. A girl that hasn't anything but her looks to get through the world on hasn't any business
overlooking a bet like that. Nine girls out of ten marry for what there is in it, anyhow."

"Thank you," she replied angrily. "I'm not in the market on that basis."

"All this stuff about ideal love and soul communion and perfect mating is pure bunk, it seems
to me," Charlie tacked off on a new course of thought. "A man and a woman somewhere near of
an age generally hit it off all right, if they've got common horse sense--and income enough
so they don't have to squabble eternally about where the next new hat and suit's coming from.
It's the coin that counts most of all. It sure is, Sis. It's me that knows it, right now."

He sat a minute or two longer, again preoccupied with his problems.

"Well," he said at last, "I've got to get action somehow. If I could get about thirty men and
another donkey for three weeks, I'd make it."

He went outside. Up in the near woods the whine of the saws and the sounds of chopping kept
measured beat. It was late in the forenoon, and Stella was hard about her dinner preparations.
Contract or no contract, money or no money, men must eat. That fact loomed biggest on her daily
schedule, left her no room to think overlong of other things. Her huff over, she felt rather
sorry for Charlie, a feeling accentuated by sight of him humped on a log in the sun, too engrossed
in his perplexities to be where he normally was at that hour, in the thick of the logging,
working harder than any of his men.

A little later she saw him put off from the float in the Chickamin's dinghy. When the crew
came to dinner, he had not returned. Nor was he back when they went out again at one.

Near mid-afternoon, however, he strode into the kitchen, wearing the look of a conqueror.

"I've got it fixed," he announced.

Stella looked up from a frothy mass of yellow stuff that she was stirring in a pan.

"Got what fixed?" she asked.

"Why, this log business," he said. "Jack Fyfe is going to put in a crew and a donkey, and we're
going to everlastingly rip the innards out of these woods. I'll make delivery after all."

"That's good," she remarked, but noticeably without enthusiasm. The heat of that low-roofed
shanty had taken all possible enthusiasm for anything out of her for the time being. Always
toward the close of each day she was gripped by that feeling of deadly fatigue, in the face
of which nothing much mattered but to get through the last hours somehow and drag herself wearily
to bed.

Benton playfully tweaked Katy John's ear and went whistling up the trail. It was plain sailing
for him now, and he was correspondingly elated.

He tried to talk to Stella that evening when she was through, all about big things in the future,
big contracts he could get, big money he could see his way to make. It fell mostly on unappreciative
ears. She was tired, so tired that his egotistical chatter irritated her beyond measure. What
she would have welcomed with heartfelt gratitude was not so much a prospect of future affluence
in which she might or might not share as a lightening of her present burden. So far as his
conversation ran, Benton's sole concern seemed to be more equipment, more men, so that he might
get out more logs. In the midst of this optimistic talk, Stella walked abruptly into her room.

Noon of the next day brought the Panther coughing into the bay, flanked on the port side by
a scow upon which rested a twin to the iron monster that jerked logs into her brother's chute.
To starboard was made fast a like scow. That was housed over, a smoking stovepipe stuck through
the roof, and a capped and aproned cook rested his arms on the window sill as they floated
in. Men to the number of twenty or more clustered about both scows and the Panther's deck,
busy with pipe and cigarette and rude jest. The clatter of their voices uprose through the
noon meal. But when the donkey scow thrust its blunt nose against the beach, the chaff and
laughter died into silent, capable action.

"A Seattle yarder properly handled can do anything but climb a tree," Charlie had once boasted
to her, in reference to his own machine.

It seemed quite possible to Stella, watching Jack Fyfe's crew at work. Steam was up in the
donkey. They carried a line from its drum through a snatch block ashore and jerked half a dozen
logs crosswise before the scow in a matter of minutes. Then the same cable was made fast to
a sturdy fir, the engineer stood by, and the ponderous machine slid forward on its own skids,
like an up-ended barrel on a sled, down off the scow, up the bank, smashing brush, branches,
dead roots, all that stood in its path, drawing steadily up to the anchor tree as the cable
spooled up on the drum.

A dozen men tailed on to the inch and a quarter cable and bore the loose end away up the path.
Presently one stood clear, waving a signal. Again the donkey began to puff and quiver, the
line began to roll up on the drum, and the big yarder walked up the slope under its own power,
a locomotive unneedful of rails, making its own right of way. Upon the platform built over
the skids were piled the tools of the crew, sawed blocks for the fire box, axes, saws, grindstones,
all that was necessary in their task. At one o'clock they made their first move. At two the
donkey was vanished into that region where the chute-head lay, and the great firs stood waiting
the slaughter.

By mid-afternoon Stella noticed an acceleration of numbers in the logs that came hurtling lakeward.
Now at shorter intervals arose the grinding sound of their arrival, the ponderous splash as
each leaped to the water. It was a good thing, she surmised--for Charlie Benton. She could
not see where it made much difference to her whether ten logs a day or a hundred came down
to the boomsticks.

Late that afternoon Katy vanished upon one of her periodic visits to the camp of her kindred
around the point. Bred out of doors, of a tribe whose immemorial custom it is that the women
do all the work, the Siwash girl was strong as an ox, and nearly as bovine in temperament and
movements. She could lift with ease a weight that taxed Stella's strength, and Stella Benton
was no weakling, either. It was therefore a part of Katy's routine to keep water pails filled
from the creek and the wood box supplied, in addition to washing dishes and carrying food to
the table. Katy slighted these various tasks occasionally. She needed oversight, continual
admonition, to get any job done in time. She was slow to the point of exasperation. Nevertheless,
she lightened the day's labor, and Stella put up with her slowness since she needs must or
assume the entire burden herself. This time Katy thoughtlessly left with both water pails empty.

Stella was just picking them up off the bench when a shadow darkened the door, and she looked
around to see Jack Fyfe.

"How d' do," he greeted.

He had seemed a short man. Now, standing within four feet of her, she perceived that this was
an illusion created by the proportion and thickness of his body. He was, in fact, half a head
taller than she, and Stella stood five feet five. His gray eyes met hers squarely, with a cool,
impersonal quality of gaze. There was neither smirk nor embarrassment in his straightforward
glance. He was, in effect, "sizing her up" just as he would have looked casually over a logger
asking him for a job. Stella sensed that, and resenting it momentarily, failed to match his
manner. She flushed. Fyfe smiled, a broad, friendly grin, in which a wide mouth opened to show
strong, even teeth.

"I'm after a drink," he said quite impersonally, and coolly taking the pails out of her hands,
walked through the kitchen and down to the creek. He was back in a minute, set the filled buckets
in their place, and helped himself with a dipper.

"Say," he asked easily, "how do you like life in a logging camp by this time? This is sure
one hot job you've got."

"Literally or slangily?" she asked in a flippant tone. Fyfe's reputation, rather vividly colored,
had reached her from various sources. She was not quite sure whether she cared to countenance
him or not. There was a disturbing quality in his glance, a subtle suggestion of force about
him that she felt without being able to define in understandable terms. In any case she felt
more than equal to the task of squelching any effort at familiarity, even if Jack Fyfe were,
in a sense, the convenient god in her brother's machine. Fyfe chuckled at her answer.

"Both," he replied shortly and went out.

She saw him a little later out on the bay in the Panther's dink, standing up in the little
boat, making long, graceful casts with a pliant rod. She perceived that this manner of fishing
was highly successful, insomuch as at every fourth or fifth cast a trout struck his fly, breaking
water with a vigorous splash. Then the bamboo would arch as the fish struggled, making sundry
leaps clear of the water, gleaming like silver each time he broke the surface, but coming at
last tamely to Jack Fyfe's landing net. Of outdoor sports she knew most about angling, for
her father had been an ardent fly-caster. And she had observed with a true angler's scorn the
efforts of her brother's loggers to catch the lake trout with a baited hook, at which they
had scant success. Charlie never fished. He had neither time nor inclination for such fooling,
as he termed it. Fyfe stopped fishing when the donkeys whistled six. It happened that when
he drew in to his cookhouse float, Stella was standing in her kitchen door. Fyfe looked up
at her and held aloft a dozen trout strung by the gills on a stick, gleaming in the sun.

"Vanity," she commented inaudibly. "I wonder if he thinks I've been admiring his skill as a
fisherman?"

Nevertheless she paid tribute to his skill when ten minutes later he sent a logger with the
entire catch to her kitchen. They looked toothsome, those lakers, and they were. She cooked
one for her own supper and relished it as a change from the everlasting bacon and ham. In the
face of that million feet of timber, Benton hunted no deer. True, the Siwashes had once or
twice brought in some venison. That, with a roast or two of beef from town, was all the fresh
meat she had tasted in two months. There were enough trout to make a breakfast for the crew.
She ate hers and mentally thanked Jack Fyfe.

Lying in her bed that night, in the short interval that came between undressing and wearied
sleep, she found herself wondering with a good deal more interest about Jack Fyfe than she
had ever bestowed upon--well, Paul Abbey, for instance.

She was quite positive that she was going to dislike Jack Fyfe if he were thrown much in her
way. There was something about him that she resented. The difference between him and the rest
of the rude crew among which she must perforce live was a question of degree, not of kind.
There was certainly some compelling magnetism about the man. But along with it went what she
considered an almost brutal directness of speech and action. Part of this conclusion came from
hearsay, part from observation, limited though her opportunities had been for the latter. Miss
Stella Benton, for all her poise, was not above jumping at conclusions. There was something
about Jack Fyfe that she resented. She irritably dismissed it as a foolish impression, but
the fact remained that the mere physical nearness of him seemed to put her on the defensive,
as if he were in reality a hunter and she the hunted.

Fyfe joined Charlie Benton about the time she finished work. The three of them sat on the grass
before Benton's quarters, and every time Jack Fyfe's eyes rested on her she steeled herself
to resist--what, she did not know. Something intangible, something that disturbed her. She
had never experienced anything like that before; it tantalized her, roused her curiosity. There
was nothing occult about the man. He was nowise fascinating, either in face or manner. He made
no bid for her attention. Yet during the half hour he sat there, Stella's mind revolved constantly
about him. She recalled all that she had heard of him, much of it, from her point of view,
highly discreditable. Inevitably she fell to comparing him with other men she knew.

She had, in a way, unconsciously been prepared for just such a measure of concentration upon
Jack Fyfe. For he was a power on Roaring Lake, and power,--physical, intellectual or financial,--exacts
its own tribute of consideration. He was a fighter, a dominant, hard-bitten woodsman, so the
tale ran. He had gathered about him the toughest crew on the Lake, himself, upon occasion,
the most turbulent of all. He controlled many square miles of big timber, and he had gotten
it all by his own effort in the eight years since he came to Roaring Lake as a hand logger.
He was slow of speech, chain-lightning in action, respected generally, feared a lot. All these
things her brother and Katy John had sketched for Stella with much verbal embellishment.

There was no ignoring such a man. Brought into close contact with the man himself, Stella felt
the radiating force of his personality. There it was, a thing to be reckoned with. She felt
that whenever Jack Fyfe's gray eyes rested impersonally on her. His pleasant, freckled face
hovered before her until she fell asleep, and in her sleep she dreamed again of him throwing
that drunken logger down the Hot Springs slip.

CHAPTER VIII

DURANCE VILE

By September first a growing uneasiness hardened into distasteful certainty upon Stella. It
had become her firm resolve to get what money was due her when Charlie marketed his logs and
try another field of labor. That camp on Roaring Lake was becoming a nightmare to her. She
had no inherent dislike for work. She was too vibrantly alive to be lazy. But she had had an
overdose of unaccustomed drudgery, and she was growing desperate. If there had been anything
to keep her mind from continual dwelling on the manifold disagreeableness she had to cope with,
she might have felt differently, but there was not. She ate, slept, worked,--ate, slept, and
worked again,--till every fibre of her being cried out in protest against the deadening round.
She was like a flower striving to attain its destiny of bloom in soil overrun with rank weeds.
Loneliness and hard, mean work, day after day, in which all that had ever seemed desirable
in life had neither place nor consideration, were twin evils of isolation and flesh-wearying
labor, from which she felt that she must get away, or go mad.

But she did not go. Benton left to make his delivery to the mill company, the great boom of
logs gliding slowly along in the wake of a tug, the Chickamin in attendance. Benton's crew
accompanied the boom. Fyfe's gang loaded their donkey and gear aboard the scow and went home.
The bay lay all deserted, the woods silent. For the first time in three months she had all
her hours free, only her own wants to satisfy. Katy John spent most of her time in the smoky
camp of her people. Stella loafed. For two days she did nothing, gave herself up to a physical
torpor she had never known before. She did not want to read, to walk about, or even lift her
eyes to the bold mountains that loomed massive across the lake. It was enough to lie curled
among pillows under the alder and stare drowsily at the blue September sky, half aware of the
drone of a breeze in the firs, the flutter of birds' wings, and the lap of water on the beach.

Presently, however, the old restless energy revived. The spring came back to her step and she
shed that lethargy like a cast-off garment. And in so doing her spirit rose in hot rebellion
against being a prisoner to deadening drudgery, against being shut away from all the teeming
life that throve and trafficked beyond the solitude in which she sat immured. When Charlie
came back, there was going to be a change. She repeated that to herself with determination.
Between whiles she rambled about in the littered clearing, prowled along the beaches, and paddled
now and then far outside the bay in a flat-bottomed skiff, restless, full of plans. So far
as she saw, she would have to face some city alone, but she viewed that prospect with a total
absence of the helpless feeling which harassed her so when she first took train for her brother's
camp. She had passed through what she termed a culinary inferno. Nothing, she considered, could
be beyond her after that unremitting drudgery.

But Benton failed to come back on the appointed day. The four days lengthened to a week. Then
the Panther, bound up-lake, stopped to leave a brief note from Charlie, telling her business
had called him to Vancouver.

Altogether it was ten days before the Chickamin whistled up the bay. She slid in beside the
float, her decks bristling with men like a passenger craft. Stella, so thoroughly sated with
loneliness that she temporarily forgot her grievances, flew to meet her brother. But one fair
glimpse of the disembarking crew turned her back. They were all in varying stages of liquor--from
two or three who had to be hauled over the float and up to the bunkhouse like sacks of bran,
to others who were so happily under the influence of John Barleycorn that every move was some
silly antic. She retreated in disgust. When Charlie reached the cabin, he himself proved to
be fairly mellow, in the best of spirits--speaking truly in the double sense.

"Hello, lady," he hailed jovially. "How did you fare all by your lonesome this long time? I
didn't figure to be gone so long, but there was a lot to attend to. How are you, anyway?"

"All right," she answered coolly. "You evidently celebrated your log delivery in the accepted
fashion."

"Don't you believe it," he grinned amiably. "I had a few drinks with the boys on the way up,
that's all. No, sir, it was straight business with a capital B all the time I was gone. I've
got a good thing in hand, Sis--big money in sight. Tell you about it later. Think you and Katy
can rustle grub for this bunch by six?"

"Oh, I suppose so," she said shortly. It was on the tip of her tongue to tell him then and
there that she was through,--like Matt, the cook, that memorable afternoon, "completely an'
ab-sho-lutely through." She refrained. There was no use in being truculent. But that drunken
crowd looked formidable in numbers.

"How many extra?" she asked mechanically.

"Thirty men, all told," Benton returned briskly. "I tell you I'm sure going to rip the heart
out of this limit before spring. I've signed up a six-million-foot contract for delivery as
soon as the logs'll go over Roaring Rapids in the spring. Remember what I told you when you
came? You stick with me, and you'll wear diamonds. I stand to clean up twenty thousand on the
winter's work."

"In that case, you should be able to hire a real cook," she suggested, a spice of malice in
her tone.

"I sure will, when it begins to come right," he promised largely. "And I'll give you a soft
job keeping books then. Well, I'll lend you a hand for to-night. Where's the Siwash maiden?"

"Over at the camp; there she comes now," Stella replied. "Will you start a fire, Charlie, while
I change my dress?"

"You look like a peach in that thing." He stood off a pace to admire. "You're some dame, Stell,
when you get on your glad rags."

She frowned at her image in the glass behind the closed door of her room as she set about unfastening
the linen dress she had worn that afternoon. Deep in her trunk, along with much other unused
finery, it had reposed all summer. That ingrained instinct to be admired, to be garbed fittingly
and well, came back to her as soon as she was rested. And though there were none but squirrels
and bluejays and occasionally Katy John to cast admiring eyes upon her, it had pleased her
for a week to wear her best, and wander about the beaches and among the dusky trunks of giant
fir, a picture of blooming, well-groomed womanhood. She took off the dress and threw it on
the bed with a resentful rush of feeling. The treadmill gaped for her again. But not for long.
She was through with that. She was glad that Charlie's prospects pleased him. He could not
call on her to help him out of a hole now. She would tell him her decision to-night. And as
soon as he could get a cook to fill her place, then good-by to Roaring Lake, good-by to kitchen
smells and flies and sixteen hours a day over a hot stove.

She wondered why such a loathing of the work afflicted her; if all who earned their bread in
the sweat of their brow were ridden with that feeling,--woodsmen, cooks, chauffeurs, the slaves
of personal service and the great industrial mills alike? Her heart went out to them if they
were. But she was quite sure that work could be otherwise than repellent, enslaving. She recalled
that cooks and maids had worked in her father's house with no sign of the revolt that now assailed
her. But it seemed to her that their tasks had been light compared with the job of cooking
in Charlie Benton's camp.

Curiously enough, while she changed her clothes, her thoughts a jumble of present things she
disliked and the unknown that she would have to face alone in Vancouver, she found her mind
turning on Jack Fyfe. During his three weeks' stay, they had progressed less in the direction
of acquaintances than she and Paul Abbey had done in two meetings. Fyfe talked to her now and
then briefly, but he looked at her more than he talked. Where his searching gaze disturbed,
his speech soothed, it was so coolly impersonal. That, she deemed, was merely another of his
odd contradictions. He was contradictory. Stella classified Jack Fyfe as a creature of unrestrained
passions. She recognized, or thought she recognized, certain dominant, primitive characteristics,
and they did not excite her admiration. Men admired him--those who were not afraid of him.
If he had been of more polished clay, she could readily have grasped this attitude. But in
her eyes he was merely a rude, masterful man, uncommonly gifted with physical strength, dominating
other rude, strong men by sheer brute force. And she herself rather despised sheer brute force.
The iron hand should fitly be concealed beneath the velvet glove.

Yet in spite of the bold look in his eyes that always confused and irritated her, Fyfe had
never singled her out for the slightest attention of the kind any man bestows upon an attractive
woman. Stella was no fool. She knew that she was attractive, and she knew why. She had been
prepared to repulse, and there had been nothing to repulse. Once during Charlie's absence he
had come in a rowboat, hailed her from the beach, and gone away without disembarking when she
told him Benton was not back. He was something of an enigma, she confessed to herself, after
all. Perhaps that was why he came so frequently into her mind. Or perhaps, she told herself,
there was so little on Roaring Lake to think about that one could not escape the personal element.
As if any one ever could. As if life were made up of anything but the impinging of one personality
upon another. That was something Miss Stella Benton had yet to learn. She was still mired in
the rampant egotism of untried youth, as yet the sublime individualist.

That side of her suffered a distinct shock later in the evening. When supper was over, the
work done, and the loggers' celebration was slowly subsiding in the bunkhouse, she told Charlie
with blunt directness what she wanted to do. With equally blunt directness he declared that
he would not permit it. Stella's teeth came together with an angry little click.

"I'm of age, Charlie," she said to him. "It isn't for you to say what you will or will not
permit me to do. I want that money of mine that you used--and what I've earned. God knows I
have earned it. I can't stand this work, and I don't intend to. It isn't work; it's slavery."

"But what can you do in town?" he countered. "You haven't the least idea what you'd be going
up against, Stell. You've never been away from home, and you've never had the least training
at anything useful. You'd be on your uppers in no time at all. You wouldn't have a ghost of
a chance."

"I have such a splendid chance here," she retorted ironically. "If I could get in any position
where I'd be more likely to die of sheer stagnation, to say nothing of dirty drudgery, than
in this forsaken hole, I'd like to know how. I don't think it's possible."

"You could be a whole lot worse off, if you only knew it," Benton returned grumpily. "If you
haven't got any sense about things, I have. I know what a rotten hole Vancouver or any other
seaport town is for a girl alone. I won't let you make any foolish break like that. That's flat."

From this position she failed to budge him. Once angered, partly by her expressed intention
and partly by the outspoken protest against the mountain of work imposed on her, Charlie refused
point-blank to give her either the ninety dollars he had taken out of her purse or the three
months' wages due. Having made her request, and having met with this--to her--amazing refusal,
Stella sat dumb. There was too fine a streak in her to break out in recrimination. She was
too proud to cry.

So that she went to bed in a ferment of helpless rage. Virtually she was a prisoner, as much
so as if Charlie had kidnaped her and held her so by brute force. The economic restraint was
all potent. Without money she could not even leave the camp. And when she contemplated the
daily treadmill before her, she shuddered.

At least she could go on strike. Her round cheek flushed with the bitterest anger she had ever
known, she sat with eyes burning into the dark of her sordid room, and vowed that the thirty
loggers should die of slow starvation if they did not eat until she cooked another meal for them.

CHAPTER IX

JACK FYFE'S CAMP

She was still hot with the spirit of mutiny when morning came, but she cooked breakfast. It
was not in her to act like a petulant child. Morning also brought a different aspect to things,
for Charlie told her while he helped prepare breakfast that he was going to take his crew and
repay in labor the help Jack Fyfe had given him.

"While we're there, Jack's cook will feed all hands," said he. "And by the time we're through
there, I'll have things fixed so it won't be such hard going for you here. Do you want to go
along to Jack's camp?"

"No," she answered shortly. "I don't. I would much prefer to get away from this lake altogether,
as I told you last night."

"You might as well forget that notion," he said stubbornly. "I've got a little pride in the
matter. I don't want my sister drudging at the only kind of work she'd be able to earn a living
at."

"You're perfectly willing to have me drudge here," she flashed back.

"That's different," he defended. "And it's only temporary. I'll be making real money before
long. You'll get your share if you'll have a little patience and put your shoulder to the wheel.
Lord, I'm doing the best I can."

"Yes--for yourself," she returned. "You don't seem to consider that I'm entitled to as much
fair play as you'd have to accord one of your men. I don't want you to hand me an easy living
on a silver salver. All I want of you is what is mine, and the privilege of using my own judgment.
I'm quite capable of taking care of myself."

If there had been opportunity to enlarge on that theme, they might have come to another verbal
clash. But Benton never lost sight of his primary object. The getting of breakfast and putting
his men about their work promptly was of more importance to him than Stella's grievance. So
the incipient storm dwindled to a sullen mood on her part. Breakfast over, Benton loaded men
and tools aboard a scow hitched beside the boat. He repeated his invitation, and Stella refused,
with a sarcastic reflection on the company she would be compelled to keep there.

The Chickamin with her tow drew off, and she was alone again.

"Marooned once more," Stella said to herself when the little steamboat slipped behind the first
jutting point. "Oh, if I could just be a man for a while."

Marooned seemed to her the appropriate term. There were the two old Siwashes and their dark-skinned
brood. But they were little more to Stella than the insentient boulders that strewed the beach.
She could not talk to them or they to her. Long since she had been surfeited with Katy John.
If there were any primitive virtues in that dusky maiden they were well buried under the white
man's schooling. Katy's demand upon life was very simple and in marked contrast to Stella Benton's.
Plenty of grub, no work, some cheap finery, and a man white or red, no matter, to make eyes
at. Her horizon was bounded by Roaring Lake and the mission at Skookumchuck. She was therefore
no mitigation of Stella's loneliness.

Nevertheless Stella resigned herself to make the best of it, and it proved a poor best. She
could not detach herself sufficiently from the sordid realities to lose herself in day-dreaming.
There was not a book in the camp save some ten-cent sensations she found in the bunkhouse,
and these she had exhausted during Charlie's first absence. The uncommon stillness of the camp
oppressed her more than ever. Even the bluejays and squirrels seemed to sense its abandonment,
seemed to take her as part of the inanimate fixtures, for they frisked and chattered about
with uncommon fearlessness. The lake lay dead gray, glassy as some great irregular window in
the crust of the earth. Only at rare intervals did sail or smoke dot its surface, and then
far offshore. The woods stood breathless in the autumn sun. It was like being entombed. And
there would be a long stretch of it, with only a recurrence of that deadly grind of kitchen
work when the loggers came home again.

Some time during the next forenoon she went southerly along the lake shore on foot without
object or destination, merely to satisfy in some measure the restless craving for action. Colorful
turns of life, the more or less engrossing contact of various personalities, some new thing
to be done, seen, admired, discussed, had been a part of her existence ever since she could
remember. None of this touched her now. A dead weight of monotony rode her hard. There was
the furtive wild life of the forest, the light of sun and sky, and the banked green of the
forest that masked the steep granite slopes. She appreciated beauty, craved it indeed, but
she could not satisfy her being with scenic effects alone. She craved, without being wholly
aware of it, or altogether admitting it to herself, some human distraction in all that majestic
solitude.

It was forthcoming. When she returned to camp at two o'clock, driven in by hunger, Jack Fyfe
sat on the doorstep.

"How-de-do. I've come to bring you over to my place," he announced quite casually.

"Thanks. I've already declined one pressing invitation to that effect," Stella returned drily.
His matter-of-fact assurance rather nettled her.

"A woman always has the privilege of changing her mind," Fyfe smiled. "Charlie is going to
be at my camp for at least three weeks. It'll rain soon, and the days'll be pretty gray and
dreary and lonesome. You might as well pack your war-bag and come along."

She stood uncertainly. Her tongue held ready a blunt refusal, but she did not utter it; and
she did not know why. She did have a glimpse of the futility of refusing, only she did not
admit that refusal might be of no weight in the matter. With her mind running indignantly against
compulsion, nevertheless her muscles involuntarily moved to obey. It irritated her further
that she should feel in the least constrained to obey the calmly expressed wish of this quiet-spoken
woodsman. Certain possible phases of a lengthy sojourn in Jack Fyfe's camp shot across her
mind. He seemed of uncanny perception, for he answered this thought before it was clearly formed.

"Oh, you'll be properly chaperoned, and you won't have to mix with the crew," he drawled. "I've
got all kinds of room. My boss logger's wife is up from town for a while. She's a fine, motherly
old party, and she keeps us all in order."

"I haven't had any lunch," she temporized. "Have you?"

He shook his head.

"I rowed over here before twelve. Thought I'd get you back to camp in time for dinner. You
know," he said with a twinkle in his blue eyes, "a logger never eats anything but a meal. A
lunch to us is a snack that you put in your pocket. I guess we lack tone out here. We haven't
got past the breakfast-dinner-supper stage yet; too busy making the country fit to live in."

"You have a tremendous job in hand," she observed.

"Oh, maybe," he laughed. "All in the way you look at it. Suits some of us. Well, if we get
to my camp before three, the cook might feed us. Come on. You'll get to hating yourself if
you stay here alone till Charlie's through."

Why not? Thus she parleyed with herself, one half of her minded to stand upon her dignity,
the other part of her urging acquiescence in his wish that was almost a command. She was tempted
to refuse just to see what he would do, but she reconsidered that. Without any logical foundation
for the feeling, she was shy of pitting her will against Jack Fyfe's. Hitherto quite sure of
herself, schooled in self-possession, it was a new and disturbing experience to come in contact
with that subtle, analysis-defying quality which carries the possessor thereof straight to
his or her goal over all opposition, which indeed many times stifles all opposition. Force
of character, overmastering personality, emanation of sheer will, she could not say in what
terms it should be described. Whatever it was, Jack Fyfe had it. It existed, a factor to be
reckoned with when one dealt with him. For within twenty minutes she had packed a suitcase
full of clothes and was embarked in his rowboat.

He sent the lightly built craft easily through the water with regular, effortless strokes.
Stella sat in the stern, facing him. Out past the north horn of the bay, she broke the silence
that had fallen between them.

"Why did you make a point of coming for me?" she asked bluntly.

Fyfe rested on his oars a moment, looking at her in his direct, unembarrassed way.

"I wintered once on the Stickine," he said. "My partner pulled out before Christmas and never
came back. It was the first time I'd ever been alone in my life. I wasn't a much older hand
in the country than you are. Four months without hearing the sound of a human voice. Stark
alone. I got so I talked to myself out loud before spring. So I thought--well, I thought I'd
come and bring you over to see Mrs. Howe."

Stella sat gazing at the slow moving panorama of the lake shore, her chin in her hand.

"Thank you," she said at last, and very gently.

Fyfe looked at her a minute or more, a queer, half-amused expression creeping into his eyes.

"Well," he said finally, "I might as well tell the whole truth. I've been thinking about you
quite a lot lately, Miss Stella Benton, or I wouldn't have thought about you getting lonesome."

He smiled ever so faintly, a mere movement of the corners of his mouth, at the pink flush which
rose quickly in her cheeks, and then resumed his steady pull at the oars.

Except for a greater number of board shacks and a larger area of stump and top-littered waste
immediately behind it, Fyfe's headquarters, outwardly, at least, differed little from her brother's
camp. Jack led her to a long, log structure with a shingle roof, which from its more substantial
appearance she judged to be his personal domicile. A plump, smiling woman of forty greeted
her on the threshold. Once within, Stella perceived that there was in fact considerable difference
in Mr. Fyfe's habitation. There was a great stone fireplace, before which big easy-chairs invited
restful lounging. The floor was overlaid with thick rugs which deadened her footfalls. With
no pretense of ornamental decoration, the room held an air of homely comfort.

"Come in here and lay off your things," Mrs. Howe beamed on her. "If I'd 'a' known you were
livin' so close, we'd have been acquainted a week ago; though I ain't got rightly settled here
myself. My land, these men are such clams. I never knowed till this mornin' there was any white
woman at this end of the lake besides myself."

She showed Stella into a bedroom. It boasted an enamel washstand with taps which yielded hot
and cold water, neatly curtained windows, and a deep-seated Morris chair. Certainly Fyfe's
household accommodation was far superior to Charlie Benton's. Stella expected the man's home
to be rough and ready like himself, and in a measure it was, but a comfortable sort of rough
and readiness. She took off her hat and had a critical survey of herself in a mirror, after
which she had just time to brush her hair before answering Mrs. Howe's call to a "cup of tea."

The cup of tea resolved itself into a well-cooked and well-served meal, with china and linen
and other unexpected table accessories which agreeably surprised, her. Inevitably she made
comparisons, somewhat tinctured with natural envy. If Charlie would fix his place with a few
such household luxuries, life in their camp would be more nearly bearable, despite the long
hours of disagreeable work. As it was--well, the unrelieved discomforts were beginning to warp
her out-look on everything.

Fyfe maintained his habitual sparsity of words while they ate the food Mrs. Howe brought on
a tray hot from the cook's outlying domain. When they finished, he rose, took up his hat and
helped himself to a handful of cigars from a box on the fireplace mantel.

"I guess you'll be able to put in the time, all right," he remarked. "Make yourself at home.
If you take a notion to read, there's a lot of books and magazines in my room. Mrs. Howe'll
show you."

He walked out. Stella was conscious of a distinct relief when he was gone. She had somehow
experienced a recurrence of that peculiar feeling of needing to be on her guard, as if there
were some curious, latent antagonism between them. She puzzled over that a little. She had
never felt that way about Paul Abbey, for instance, or indeed toward any man she had ever known.
Fyfe's more or less ambiguous remark in the boat had helped to arouse it again. His manner
of saying that he had "thought a lot about her" conveyed more than the mere words. She could
quite conceive of the Jack Fyfe type carrying things with a high hand where a woman was concerned.
He had that reputation in all his other dealings. He was aggressive. He could drink any logger
in the big firs off his feet. He had an uncanny luck at cards. Somehow or other in every undertaking
Jack Fyfe always came out on top, so the tale ran. There must be, she reasoned, a wide streak
of the brute in such a man. It was no gratification to her vanity to have him admire her. It
did not dawn upon her that so far she had never got over being a little afraid of him, much
less to ask herself why she should be afraid of him.

But she did not spend much time puzzling over Jack Fyfe. Once out of her sight she forgot him.
It was balm to her lonely soul to have some one of her own sex for company. What Mrs. Howe
lacked in the higher culture she made up in homely perception and unassuming kindliness. Her
husband was Fyfe's foreman. She herself was not a permanent fixture in the camp. They had a
cottage at Roaring Springs, where she spent most of the time, so that their three children
could be in school.

"I was up here all through vacation," she told Stella. "But Lefty he got to howlin' about bein'
left alone shortly after school started again, so I got my sister to look after the kids for
a spell, while I stay. I'll be goin' down about the time Mr. Benton's through here."

Stella eventually went out to take a look around the camp. A hard-beaten path led off toward
where rose the distant sounds of logging work, the ponderous crash of trees, and the puff of
the donkeys. She followed that a little way and presently came to a knoll some three hundred
yards above the beach. There she paused to look and wonder curiously.

For the crest of this little hillock had been cleared and graded level and planted to grass
over an area four hundred feet square. It was trimmed like a lawn, and in the center of this
vivid green block stood an unfinished house foundation of gray stone. No stick of timber, no
board or any material for further building lay in sight. The thing stood as if that were to
be all. And it was not a new undertaking temporarily delayed. There was moss creeping over
the thick stone wall, she discovered when she walked over it. Whoever had laid that foundation
had done it many a moon before. Yet the sward about was kept as if a gardener had it in charge.

A noble stretch of lake and mountain spread out before her gaze. Straight across the lake two
deep clefts in the eastern range opened on the water, five miles apart. She could see the white
ribbon of foaming cascades in each. Between lifted a great mountain, and on the lakeward slope
of this stood a terrible scar of a slide, yellow and brown, rising two thousand feet from the
shore. A vaporous wisp of cloud hung along the top of the slide, and above this aërial banner
a snow-capped pinnacle thrust itself high into the infinite blue.

"What an outlook," she said, barely conscious that she spoke aloud. "Why do these people build
their houses in the bush, when they could live in the open and have something like this to
look at. They would, if they had any sense of beauty."

"Sure they haven't? Some of them might have, you know, without being able to gratify it."

She started, to find Jack Fyfe almost at her elbow, the gleam of a quizzical smile lighting
his face.

"I daresay that might be true," she admitted.

Fyfe's gaze turned from her to the huge sweep of lake and mountain chain. She saw that he was
outfitted for fishing, creel on his shoulder, unjointed rod in one hand. By means of his rubber-soled
waders he had come upon her noiselessly.

"It's truer than you think, maybe," he said at length. "You don't want to come along and take
a lesson in catching rainbows, I suppose?"

"Not this time, thanks," she shook her head.

"I want to get enough for supper, so I'd better be at it," he remarked. "Sometimes they come
pretty slow. If you should want to go up and watch the boys work, that trail will take you there."

He went off across the grassy level and plunged into the deep timber that rose like a wall
beyond. Stella looked after.

"It is certainly odd," she reflected with some irritation, "how that man affects me. I don't
think a woman could ever be just friends with him. She'd either like him a lot or dislike him
intensely. He isn't anything but a logger, and yet he has a presence like one of the lords
of creation. Funny."

Then she went back to the house to converse upon domestic matters with Mrs. Howe until the
shrilling of the donkey whistle brought forty-odd lumberjacks swinging down the trail.

Behind them a little way came Jack Fyfe with sagging creel. He did not stop to exhibit his
catch, but half an hour later they were served hot and crisp at the table in the big living
room, where Fyfe, Stella and Charlie Benton, Lefty Howe and his wife, sat down together.

A flunkey from the camp kitchen served the meal and cleared it away. For an hour or two after
that the three men sat about in shirt-sleeved ease, puffing at Jack Fyfe's cigars. Then Benton
excused himself and went to bed. When Howe and his wife retired, Stella did likewise. The long
twilight had dwindled to a misty patch of light sky in the northwest, and she fell asleep more
at ease than she had been for weeks. Sitting in Jack Fyfe's living room through that evening
she had begun to formulate a philosophy to fit her enforced environment--to live for the day
only, and avoid thought of the future until there loomed on the horizon some prospect of a
future worth thinking about. The present looked passable enough, she thought, if she kept her
mind strictly on it alone.

And with that idea to guide her, she found the days slide by smoothly. She got on famously
with Mrs. Howe, finding that woman full of virtues unsuspected in her type. Charlie was in
his element. His prospects looked so rosy that they led him into egotistic outlines of what
he intended to accomplish. To him the future meant logs in the water, big holdings of timber,
a growing bank account. Beyond that,--what all his concentrated effort should lead to save
more logs and more timber,--he did not seem to go. Judged by his talk, that was the ultimate,
economic power,--money and more money. More and more as Stella listened to him, she became
aware that he was following in his father's footsteps; save that he aimed at greater heights
and that he worked by different methods, juggling with natural resources where their father
had merely juggled with prices and tokens of product, their end was the same--not to create
or build up, but to grasp, to acquire. That was the game. To get and to hold for their own
use and benefit and to look upon men and things, in so far as they were of use, as pawns in
the game.

She wondered sometimes if that were a characteristic of all men, if that were the big motif
in the lives of such men as Paul Abbey and Jack Fyfe, for instance; if everything else, save
the struggle of getting and keeping money, resolved itself into purely incidental phases of
their existence? For herself she considered that wealth, or the getting of wealth, was only
a means to an end.

Just what that end might be she found a little vague, rather hard to define in exact terms.
It embraced personal leisure and the good things of life as a matter of course, a broader existence,
a large-handed generosity toward the less fortunate, an intellectual elevation entirely unrelated
to gross material things. Life, she told herself pensively, ought to mean something more than
ease and good clothes, but what more she was chary of putting into concrete form. It hadn't
meant much more than that for her, so far. She was only beginning to recognize the flinty facts
of existence. She saw now that for her there lay open only two paths to food and clothing:
one in which, lacking all training, she must earn her bread by daily toil, the other leading
to marriage. That, she would have admitted, was a woman's natural destiny, but one didn't pick
a husband or lover as one chose a gown or a hat. One went along living, and the thing happened.
Chance ruled there, she believed. The morality of her class prevented her from prying into
this question of mating with anything like critical consideration. It was only to be thought
about sentimentally, and it was easy for her to so think. Within her sound and vigorous body
all the heritage of natural human impulses bubbled warmly, but she recognized neither their
source nor their ultimate fruits.

Often when Charlie was holding forth in his accustomed vein, she wondered what Jack Fyfe thought
about it, what he masked behind his brief sentences or slow smile. Latterly her feeling about
him, that involuntary bracing and stiffening of herself against his personality, left her.
Fyfe seemed to be more or less self-conscious of her presence as a guest in his house. His
manner toward her remained always casual, as if she were a man, and there was no question of
sex attraction or masculine reaction to it between them. She liked him better for that; and
she did admire his wonderful strength, the tremendous power invested in his magnificent body,
just as she would have admired a tiger, without caring to fondle the beast.

Altogether she spent a tolerably pleasant three weeks. Autumn's gorgeous paintbrush laid wonderful
coloring upon the maple and alder and birch that lined the lake shore. The fall run of the
salmon was on, and every stream was packed with the silver horde, threshing through shoal and
rapid to reach the spawning ground before they died. Off every creek mouth and all along the
lake the seal followed to prey on the salmon, and sea-trout and lakers alike swarmed to the
spawning beds to feed upon the roe. The days shortened. Sometimes a fine rain would drizzle
for hours on end, and when it would clear, the saw-toothed ranges flanking the lake would stand
out all freshly robed in white,--a mantle that crept lower on the fir-clad slopes after each
storm. The winds that whistled off those heights nipped sharply.

Early in October Charlie Benton had squared his neighborly account with Jack Fyfe. With crew
and equipment he moved home, to begin work anew on his own limit.

Katy John and her people came back from the salmon fishing. Jim Renfrew, still walking with
a pronounced limp, returned from the hospital. Charlie wheedled Stella into taking up the cookhouse
burden again. Stella consented; in truth she could do nothing else. Charlie spent a little
of his contract profits in piping water to the kitchen, in a few things to brighten up and
make more comfortable their own quarters.

"Just as soon as I can put another boom over the rapids, Stell," he promised, "I'll put a cook
on the job. I've got to sail a little close for a while. With this crew I ought to put a million
feet in the water in six weeks. Then I'll be over the hump, and you can take it easy. But till
then--"

"Till then I may as well make myself useful," Stella interrupted caustically.

"Well, why not?" Benton demanded impatiently. "Nobody around here works any harder than I do."

And there the matter rested.

CHAPTER X

ONE WAY OUT

That was a winter of big snow. November opened with rain. Day after day the sun hid his face
behind massed, spitting clouds. Morning, noon, and night the eaves of the shacks dripped steadily,
the gaunt limbs of the hardwoods were a line of coursing drops, and through all the vast reaches
of fir and cedar the patter of rain kept up a dreary monotone. Whenever the mist that blew
like rolling smoke along the mountains lifted for a brief hour, there, creeping steadily downward,
lay the banked white.

Rain or shine, the work drove on. From the peep of day till dusk shrouded the woods, Benton's
donkey puffed and groaned, axes thudded, the thin, twanging whine of the saws rose. Log after
log slid down the chute to float behind the boomsticks; and at night the loggers trooped home,
soaked to the skin, to hang their steaming mackinaws around the bunkhouse stove. When they
gathered in the mess-room they filled it with the odor of sweaty bodies and profane grumbling
about the weather.

Early in December Benton sent out a big boom of logs with a hired stern-wheeler that was no
more than out of Roaring Lake before the snow came. The sleety blasts of a cold afternoon turned
to great, moist flakes by dark, eddying thick out of a windless night. At daybreak it lay a
foot deep and snowing hard. Thenceforth there was no surcease. The white, feathery stuff piled
up and piled up, hour upon hour and day after day, as if the deluge had come again. It stood
at the cabin eaves before the break came, six feet on the level. With the end of the storm
came a bright, cold sky and frost,--not the bitter frost of the high latitudes, but a nipping
cold that held off the melting rains and laid a thin scum of ice on every patch of still water.

Necessarily, all work ceased. The donkey was a shapeless mound of white, all the lines and
gear buried deep. A man could neither walk on that yielding mass nor wallow through it. The
logging crew hailed the enforced rest with open relief. Benton grumbled. And then, with the
hours hanging heavy on his hands, he began to spend more and more of his time in the bunkhouse
with the "boys," particularly in the long evenings.

Stella wondered what pleasure he found in their company, but she never asked him, nor did she
devote very much thought to the matter. There was but small cessation in her labors, and that
only because six or eight of the men drew their pay and went out. Benton managed to hold the
others against the thaw that might open up the woods in twenty-four hours, but the smaller
size of the gang only helped a little, and did not assist her mentally at all. All the old
resentment against the indignity of her position rose and smoldered. To her the days were full
enough of things that she was terribly weary of doing over and over, endlessly. She was always
tired. No matter that she did, in a measure, harden to her work, grow callously accustomed
to rising early and working late. Always her feet were sore at night, aching intolerably. Hot
food, sharp knives, and a glowing stove played havoc with her hands. Always she rose in the
morning heavy-eyed and stiff-muscled. Youth and natural vigor alone kept her from breaking
down, and to cap the strain of toil, she was soul-sick with the isolation. For she was isolated;
there was not a human being in the camp, Katy John included, with whom she exchanged two dozen
words a day.

Before the snow put a stop to logging, Jack Fyfe dropped in once a week or so. When work shut
down, he came oftener, but he never singled Stella out for any particular attention. Once he
surprised her sitting with her elbows on the kitchen table, her face buried in her palms. She
looked up at his quiet entrance, and her face must have given him his cue. He leaned a little
toward her.

"How long do you think you can stand it?" he asked gently.

"God knows," she answered, surprised into speaking the thought that lay uppermost in her mind,
surprised beyond measure that Be should read that thought.

He stood looking down at her for a second or two. His lips parted, but he closed them again
over whatever rose to his tongue and passed silently through the dining room and into the bunkhouse,
where Benton had preceded him a matter of ten minutes.

It lacked a week of Christmas. That day three of Benton's men had gone in the Chickamin to
Roaring Springs for supplies. They had returned in mid-afternoon, and Stella guessed by the
new note of hilarity in the bunkhouse that part of the supplies had been liquid. This had happened
more than once since the big snow closed in. She remembered Charlie's fury at the logger who
started Matt the cook on his spree, and she wondered at this relaxation, but it was not in
her province, and she made no comment.

Jack Fyfe stayed to supper that evening. Neither he nor Charlie came back to Benton's quarters
when the meal was finished. While she stacked up the dishes, Katy John observed:

"Goodness sakes, Miss Benton, them fellers was fresh at supper. They was half-drunk, some of
them. I bet they'll be half a dozen fights before mornin'."

Stella passed that over in silence, with a mental turning up of her nose. It was something
she could neither defend nor excuse. It was a disgusting state of affairs, but nothing she
could change. She kept harking back to it, though, when she was in her own quarters, and Katy
John had vanished for the night into her little room off the kitchen. Tired as she was, she
remained wakeful, uneasy. Over in the bunkhouse disturbing sounds welled now and then into
the cold, still night,--incoherent snatches of song, voices uproariously raised, bursts of
laughter. Once, as she looked out the door, thinking she heard footsteps crunching in the snow,
some one rapped out a coarse oath that drove her back with burning face.

As the evening wore late, she began to grow uneasily curious to know in what manner Charlie
and Jack Fyfe were lending countenance to this minor riot, if they were even participating
in it. Eleven o'clock passed, and still there rose in the bunkhouse that unabated hum of voices.

Suddenly there rose a brief clamor. In the dead silence that followed, she heard a thud and
the clinking smash of breaking glass, a panted oath, sounds of struggle.

Stella slipped on a pair of her brother's gum boots and an overcoat, and ran out on the path
beaten from their cabin to the shore. It led past the bunkhouse, and on that side opened two
uncurtained windows, yellow squares that struck gleaming on the snow. The panes of one were
broken now, sharp fragments standing like saw teeth in the wooden sash.

She stole warily near and looked in. Two men were being held apart; one by three of his fellows,
the other by Jack Fyfe alone. Fyfe grinned mildly, talking to the men in a quiet, pacific tone.

"Now you know that was nothing to scrap about," she heard him say, "You're both full of fighting
whisky, but a bunkhouse isn't any place to fight. Wait till morning. If you've still got it
in your systems, go outside and have it out. But you shouldn't disturb our game and break up
the furniture. Be gentlemen, drunk or sober. Better shake hands and call it square."

"Aw, let 'em go to it, if they want to."

Charlie's voice, drink-thickened, harsh, came from a earner of the room into which she could
not see until she moved nearer. By the time she picked him out, Fyfe resumed his seat at the
table where three others and Benton waited with cards in their hands, red and white chips and
money stacked before them.

She knew enough of cards to realize that a stiff poker game was on the board when she had watched
one hand dealt and played. It angered her, not from any ethical motive, but because of her
brother's part in it. He had no funds to pay a cook's wages, yet he could afford to lose on
one hand as much as he credited her with for a month's work. She could slave at the kitchen
job day in and day out to save him forty-five dollars a month. He could lose that without the
flicker of an eyelash, but he couldn't pay her wages on demand. Also she saw that he had imbibed
too freely, if the redness of his face and the glassy fixedness of his eyes could be read aright.

"Pig!" she muttered. "If that's his idea of pleasure. Oh, well, why should I care? I don't,
so far as he's concerned, if I could just get away from this beast of a place myself."

Abreast of her a logger came to the broken window with a sack to bar out the frosty air. And
Stella, realizing suddenly that she was shivering with the cold, ran back to the cabin and
got into her bed.

But she did not sleep, save in uneasy periods of dozing, until midnight was long past. Then
Fyfe and her brother came in, and by the sounds she gathered that Fyfe was putting Charlie
to bed. She heard his deep, drawly voice urging the unwisdom of sleeping with calked boots
on, and Beaton's hiccupy response. The rest of the night she slept fitfully, morbidly imagining
terrible things. She was afraid, that was the sum and substance of it. Over in the bunkhouse
the carousal was still at its height. She could not rid herself of the sight of those two men
struggling to be at each other like wild beasts, the bloody face of the one who had been struck,
the coarse animalism of the whole whisky-saturated gang. It repelled and disgusted and frightened
her.

The night frosts had crept through the single board walls of Stella's room and made its temperature
akin to outdoors when the alarm wakened her at six in the morning. She shivered as she dressed.
Katy John was blissfully devoid of any responsibility, for seldom did Katy rise first to light
the kitchen fire. Yet Stella resented less each day's bleak beginning than she did the enforced
necessity of the situation; the fact that she was enduring these things practically under compulsion
was what galled.

A cutting wind struck her icily as she crossed the few steps of open between cabin and kitchen.
Above no cloud floated, no harbinger of melting rain. The cold stars twinkled over snow-blurred
forest, struck tiny gleams from stumps that were now white-capped pillars. A night swell from
the outside waters beat, its melancholy dirge on the frozen beach. And, as she always did at
that hushed hour before dawn, she experienced a physical shrinking from those grim solitudes
in which there was nothing warm and human and kindly, nothing but vastness of space upon which
silence lay like a smothering blanket, in which she, the human atom, was utterly negligible,
a protesting mote in the inexorable wilderness. She knew this to be merely a state of mind,
but situated as she was, it bore upon her with all the force of reality. She felt like a prisoner
who above all things desired some mode of escape.

A light burned in the kitchen. She thanked her stars that this bitter cold morning she would
not have to build a fire with freezing fingers while her teeth chattered, and she hurried in
to the warmth heralded by a spark-belching stovepipe. But the Siwash girl had not risen to
the occasion. Instead, Jack Fyfe sat with his feet on the oven door, a cigar in one corner
of his mouth. The kettle steamed. Her porridge pot bubbled ready for the meal.

"Good morning," he greeted. "Mind my preempting your job?"

"Not at all," she answered. "You can have it for keeps if you want."

"No, thanks," he smiled. "I'm sour on my own cooking. Had to eat too much of it in times gone
by. I wouldn't be stoking up here either, only I got frozen out. Charlie's spare bed hasn't
enough blankets for me these cold nights."

He drew his chair aside to be out of the way as she hurried about her breakfast preparations.
All the time she was conscious that his eyes were on her, and also that in them lurked an expression
of keen interest. His freckled mask of a face gave no clue to his thoughts; it never did, so
far as she had ever observed. Fyfe had a gambler's immobility of countenance. He chucked the
butt of his cigar in the stove and sat with hands clasped over one knee for some time after
Katy John appeared and began setting the dining room table with a great clatter of dishes.

He arose to his feet then. Stella stood beside the stove, frying bacon. A logger opened the
door and walked in. He had been one to fare ill in the night's hilarity, for a discolored patch
encircled one eye, and his lips were split and badly swollen. He carried a tin basin.

"Kin I get some hot water?" he asked.

Stella silently indicated the reservoir at one end of the range. The man ladled his basin full.
The fumes of whisky, the unpleasant odor of his breath offended her, and she drew back. Fyfe
looked at her as the man went out.

"What?" he asked.

She had muttered something, an impatient exclamation of disgust. The man's appearance disagreeably
reminded her of the scene she had observed through the bunkhouse window. It stung her to think
that her brother was fast putting himself on a par with them--without their valid excuse of
type and training.

"Oh, nothing," she said wearily, and turned to the sputtering bacon.

Fyfe put his foot up on the stove front and drummed a tattoo on his mackinaw clad knee.

"Aren't you getting pretty sick of this sort of work, these more or less uncomfortable surroundings,
and the sort of people you have to come in contact with?" he asked pointedly.

"I am," she returned as bluntly, "but I think that's rather an impertinent question, Mr. Fyfe."

He passed imperturbably over this reproof, and his glance turned briefly toward the dining
room. Katy John was still noisily at work.

"You hate it," he said positively. "I know you do. I've seen your feelings many a time. I don't
blame you. It's a rotten business for a girl with your tastes and bringing up. And I'm afraid
you'll find it worse, if this snow stays long. I know what a logging camp is when work stops,
and whisky creeps in, and the boss lets go his hold for the time being."

"That may be true," she returned gloomily, "but I don't see why you should enumerate these
disagreeable things for my benefit."

"I'm going to show you a way out," he said softly. "I've been thinking it over for quite a
while. I want you to marry me."

Stella gasped.

"Mr. Fyfe."

"Listen," he said peremptorily, leaning closer to her and lowering his voice. "I have an idea
that you're going to say you don't love me. Lord, I know that. But you hate this. It grates
against every inclination of yours like a file on steel. I wouldn't jar on you like that. I
wouldn't permit you to live in surroundings that would. That's the material side of it. Nobody
can live on day dreams. I like you, Stella Benton, a whole lot more than I'd care to say right
out loud. You and I together could make a home we'd be proud of. I want you, and you want to
get away from this. It's natural. Marry me and play the game fair, and I don't think you'll
be sorry. I'm putting it as baldly as I can. You stand to win everything with nothing to lose--but
your domestic chains--" the gleam of a smile lit up his features for a second. "Won't you take
a chance?" "No," she declared impulsively. "I won't be a party to any such cold-blooded transaction."

"You don't seem to understand me," he said soberly. "I don't want to hand out any sentiment,
but it makes me sore to see you wasting yourself on this sort of thing. If you must do it,
why don't you do it for somebody who'll make it worth while? If you'd use the brains God gave
you, you know that lots of couples have married on flimsier grounds than we'd have. How can
a man and a woman really know anything about each other till they've lived together? Just because
we don't marry with our heads in the fog is no reason we shouldn't get on fine. What are you
going to do? Stick here at this till you go crazy? You won't get away. You don't realize what
a one-idea, determined person this brother of yours is. He has just one object in life, and
he'll use everything and everybody in sight to attain that object. He means to succeed and
he will. You're purely incidental; but he has that perverted, middle-class family pride that
will make him prevent you from getting out and trying your own wings. Nature never intended
a woman like you to be a celibate, any more than I was so intended. And sooner or late you'll
marry somebody--if only to hop out of the fire into the frying pan."

"I hate you," she flashed passionately, "when you talk like that."

"No, you don't," he returned quietly. "You hate what I say, because it's the truth--and it's
humiliating to be helpless. You think I don't sabe? But I'm putting a weapon into your hand.
Let's put it differently; leave out the sentiment for a minute. We'll say that I want a housekeeper,
preferably an ornamental one, because I like beautiful things. You want to get away from this
drudgery. That's what it is, simple drudgery. You crave lots of things you can't get by yourself,
but that you could help me get for you. There's things lacking in your life, and so is there
in mine. Why shouldn't we go partners? You think about it."

"I don't need to," she answered coolly. "It wouldn't work. You don't appear to have any idea
what it means for a woman to give herself up body and soul to a man she doesn't care for. For
me it would be plain selling myself. I haven't the least affection for you personally. I might
even detest you."

"You wouldn't," he said positively.

"What makes you so sure of that?" she demanded.

"It would sound conceited if I told you why," he drawled. "Listen. We're not gods and goddesses,
we human beings. We're not, after all, in our real impulses, so much different from the age
when a man took his club and went after a female that looked good to him. They mated, and raised
their young, and very likely faced on an average fewer problems than arise in modern marriages
supposedly ordained in Heaven. You'd have the one big problem solved,--the lack of means to
live decently,--which wrecks more homes than anything else, far more than lack of love. Affection
doesn't seem to thrive on poverty. What is love?"

His voice took on a challenging note.

Stella shook her head. He puzzled her, wholly serious one minute, a whimsical smile twisting
up the corners of his mouth the next. And he surprised her too by his sureness of utterance
on subjects she had not supposed would enter such a man's mind.

"I don't know," she answered absently, turning over strips of bacon with the long-handled fork.

"There you are," he said. "I don't know either. We'd start even, then, for the sake of argument.
No, I guess we wouldn't either, because you're the only woman I've run across so far with whom
I could calmly contemplate spending the rest of my life in close contact. That's a fact. To
me it's a highly important fact. You don't happen to have any such feeling about me, eh?"

"No. I hadn't even thought of you in that way," Stella answered truthfully.

"You want to think about me," he said calmly. "You want to think about me from every possible
angle, because I'm going to come back and ask you this same question every once in a while,
so long as you're in reach and doing this dirty work for a thankless boss. You want to think
of me as a possible refuge from a lot of disagreeable things. I'd like to have you to chum
with, and I'd like to have some incentive to put a big white bungalow on that old foundation
for us two," he smiled. "I'll never do it for myself alone. Go on. Take a gambling chance and
marry me, Stella. Say yes, and say it now."

But she shook her head resolutely, and as Katy John came in just then, Fyfe took his foot off
the stove and went out of the kitchen. He threw a glance over his shoulder at Stella, a broad
smile, as if to say that he harbored no grudge, and nursed no wound in his vanity because she
would have none of him.

Katy rang the breakfast gong. Five minutes later the tattoo of knives and forks and spoons
told of appetites in process of appeasement. Charlie came into the kitchen in the midst of
this, bearing certain unmistakable signs. His eyes were inflamed, his cheeks still bearing
the flush of liquor. His demeanor was that of a man suffering an intolerable headache and correspondingly
short-tempered. Stella barely spoke to him. It was bad enough for a man to make a beast of
himself with whisky, but far worse was his gambling streak. There were so many little ways
in which she could have eased things with a few dollars; yet he always grumbled when she spoke
of money, always put her off with promises to be redeemed when business got better.

Stella watched him bathe his head copiously in cold water and then seat himself at the long
table, trying to force food upon an aggrieved and rebellious stomach. Gradually a flood of
recklessness welled up in her breast.

"For two pins I would marry Jack Fyfe," she told herself savagely. "Anything would be better
than this."

CHAPTER XI

THE PLUNGE

Stella went over that queer debate a good many times in the ten days that followed. It revealed
Jack Fyfe to her in a new, inexplicable light, at odd variance with her former conception of
the man. She could not have visualized him standing with one foot on the stove front speaking
calmly of love and marriage if she had not seen him with her own eyes, heard him with somewhat
incredulous ears. She had continued to endow him with the attributes of unrestrained passion,
of headlong leaping to the goal of his desires, of brushing aside obstacles and opposition
with sheer brute force; and he had shown unreckoned qualities of restraint, of understanding.
She was not quite sure if this were guile or sensible consideration. He had put his case logically,
persuasively even. She was very sure that if he had adopted emotional methods, she would have
been repelled. If he had laid siege to her hand and heart in the orthodox fashion, she would
have raised that siege in short order. As it stood, in spite of her words to him, there was
in her own mind a lack of finality. As she went about her daily tasks, that prospect of trying
a fresh fling at the world as Jack Fyfe's wife tantalized her with certain desirable features.

Was it worth while to play the game as she must play it for some time to come, drudge away
at mean, sordid work and amid the dreariest sort of environment? At best, she could only get
away from Charlie's camp and begin along new lines that might perhaps be little better, that
must inevitably lie among strangers in a strange land. To what end? What did she want of life,
anyway? She had to admit that she could not say fully and explicitly what she wanted. When
she left out her material wants, there was nothing but a nebulous craving for--what? Love,
she assumed. And she could not define love, except as some incomprehensible transport of emotion
which irresistibly drew a man and a woman together, a divine fire kindled in two hearts. It
was not a thing she could vouch for by personal experience. It might never touch and warm her,
that divine fire. Instinct did now and then warn her that some time it would wrap her like
a flame. But in the meantime--Life had her in midstream of its remorseless, drab current, sweeping
her along. A foothold offered. Half a loaf, a single slice of bread even, is better than none.

Jack Fyfe did not happen in again for nearly two weeks and then only to pay a brief call, but
he stole an opportunity, when Katy John was not looking, to whisper in Stella's ear:

"Have you been thinking about that bungalow of ours?"

She shook her head, and he went out quietly, without another word. He neither pleaded nor urged,
and perhaps that was wisest, for in spite of herself Stella thought of him continually. He
loomed always before her, a persistent, compelling factor.

She knew at last, beyond any gainsaying, that the venture tempted, largely perhaps because
it contained so great an element of the unknown. To get away from this soul-dwarfing round
meant much. She felt herself reasoning desperately that the frying pan could not be worse than
the fire, and held at least the merit of greater dignity and freedom from the twin evils of
poverty and thankless domestic slavery.

While she considered this, pro and con, shrinking from such a step one hour, considering it
soberly the next, the days dragged past in wearisome sequence. The great depth of snow endured,
was added to by spasmodic flurries. The frosts held. The camp seethed with the restlessness
of the men. In default of the daily work that consumed their superfluous energy, the loggers
argued and fought, drank and gambled, made "rough house" in their sleeping quarters till sometimes
Stella's cheeks blanched and she expected murder to be done. Twice the Chickamin came back
from Roaring Springs with whisky aboard, and a protracted debauch ensued. Once a drunken logger
shouldered his way into the kitchen to leer unpleasantly at Stella, and, himself inflamed by
liquor and the affront, Charlie Benton beat the man until his face was a mass of bloody bruises.
That was only one of a dozen brutal incidents. All the routine discipline of the woods seemed
to have slipped out of Benton's hands. When the second whisky consignment struck the camp,
Stella stayed in her room, refusing to cook until order reigned again. Benton grumblingly took
up the burden himself. With Katy's help and that of sundry loggers, he fed the roistering crew,
but for his sister it was a two-day period of protesting disgust.

That mood, like so many of her moods, relapsed into dogged endurance. She took up the work
again when Charlie promised that no more whisky should be allowed in the camp.

"Though it's ten to one I won't have a corporal's guard left when I want to start work again,"
he grumbled. "I'm well within my rights if I put my foot down hard on any jinks when there's
work, but I have no license to set myself up as guardian of a logger's morals and pocketbook
when I have nothing for him to do. These fellows are paying their board. So long as they don't
make themselves obnoxious to you, I don't see that it's our funeral whether they're drunk or
sober. They'd tell me so quick enough."

To this pronouncement of expediency Stella made no rejoinder. She no longer expected anything
much of Charlie, in the way of consideration. So far as she could see, she, his sister, was
little more to him than one of his loggers; a little less important than, say, his donkey engineer.
In so far as she conduced to the well-being of the camp and effected a saving to his credit
in the matter of preparing food, he valued her and was willing to concede a minor point to
satisfy her. Beyond that Stella felt that he did not go. Five years in totally different environments
had dug a great gulf between them. He felt an arbitrary sense of duty toward her, she knew,
but in its manifestations it never lapped over the bounds of his own immediate self-interest.

And so when she blundered upon knowledge of a state of affairs which must have existed under
her very nose for some time, there were few remnants of sisterly affection to bid her seek
extenuating circumstances.

Katy John proved the final straw. Just by what means Stella grew to suspect any such moral
lapse on Benton's part is wholly irrelevant. Once the unpleasant likelihood came to her notice,
she took measures to verify her suspicion, and when convinced she taxed her brother with it,
to his utter confusion.

"What kind of a man are you?" she cried at last in shamed anger. "Is there nothing too low
for you to dabble in? Haven't you any respect for anything or anybody, yourself included?"

"Oh, don't talk like a damned Puritan," Benton growled, though his tanned face was burning.
"This is what comes of having women around the camp. I'll send the girl away."

"You--you beast!" she flared--and ran out of the kitchen to seek refuge in her own room and
cry into her pillow some of the dumb protest that surged up within her. For her knowledge of
passion and the workings of passion as they bore upon the relations of a man and a woman were
at once vague and tinctured with inflexible tenets of morality, the steel-hard conception of
virtue which is the bulwark of middle-class theory for its wives and daughters and sisters--with
an eye consistently blind to the concealed lapses of its men.

Stella Benton passed that morning through successive stages of shocked amazement, of pity,
and disgust. As between her brother and the Siwash girl, she saw little to choose. From her
virtuous pinnacle she abhorred both. If she had to continue intimate living with them, she
felt that she would be utterly defiled, degraded to their level. That was her first definite
conclusion.

After a time she heard Benton come into their living room and light a fire in the heater. She
dried her eyes and went out to face him.

"Charlie," she declared desperately, "I can't stay here any longer. It's simply impossible."

"Don't start that song again. We've had it often enough," he answered stubbornly. "You're not
going--not till spring. I'm not going to let you go in the frame of mind you're in right now,
anyhow. You'll get over that. Hang it, I'm not the first man whose foot slipped. It isn't your
funeral, anyway. Forget it."

The grumbling coarseness of this retort left her speechless. Benton got the fire going and
went out. She saw him cross to the kitchen, and later she saw Katy John leave the camp with
all her belongings in a bundle over her shoulder, trudging away to the camp of her people around
the point.

Kipling's pregnant line shot across her mind:

"For the colonel's lady and Judy O'Grady are sisters under their skins."

"I wonder," she mused. "I wonder if we are? I wonder if that poor, little, brown-skinned fool
isn't after all as much a victim as I am. She doesn't know better, maybe; but Charlie does,
and he doesn't seem to care. It merely embarrasses him to be found out, that's all. It isn't
right. It isn't fair, or decent, or anything. We're just for him to--to use."

She looked out along the shores piled high with broken ice and snow, through a misty air to
distant mountains that lifted themselves imperiously aloof, white spires against the sky,--over
a forest all draped in winter robes; shore, mountains, and forest alike were chill and hushed
and desolate. The lake spread its forty-odd miles in a boomerang curve from Roaring Springs
to Fort Douglas, a cold, lifeless gray. She sat a long time looking at that, and a dead weight
seemed to settle upon her heart. For the second time that day she broke down. Not the shamed,
indignant weeping of an hour earlier, but with the essence of all things forlorn and desolate
in her choked sobs.

She did not hear Jack Fyfe come in. She did not dream he was there, until she felt his hand
gently on her shoulder and looked up. And so deep was her despondency, so keen the unassuaged
craving for some human sympathy, some measure of understanding, that she made no effort to
remove his hand. She was in too deep a spiritual quagmire to refuse any sort of aid, too deeply
moved to indulge in analytical self-fathoming. She had a dim sense of being oddly comforted
by his presence, as if she, afloat on uncharted seas, saw suddenly near at hand a safe anchorage
and welcoming hands. Afterward she recalled that. As it was, she looked up at Fyfe and hid
her wet face in her hands again. He stood silent a few seconds. When he did speak there was
a peculiar hesitation in his voice.

"What is it?" he said softly. "What's the trouble now?"

Briefly she told him, the barriers of her habitual reserve swept aside before the essentially
human need to share a burden that has grown too great to bear alone.

"Oh, hell," Fyfe grunted, when she had finished. "This isn't any place for you at all."

He slid his arm across her shoulders and tilted her face with his other hand so that her eyes
met his. And she felt no desire to draw away or any of that old instinct to be on her guard
against him. For all she knew--indeed, by all she had been told--Jack Fyfe was tarred with
the same stick as her brother, but she had no thought of resisting him, no feeling of repulsion.

"Will you marry me, Stella?" he asked evenly. "I can free you from this sort of thing forever."

"How can I?" she returned. "I don't want to marry anybody. I don't love you. I'm not even sure
I like you. I'm too miserable to think, even. I'm afraid to take a step like that. I should
think you would be too."

He shook his head.

"I've thought a lot about it lately," he said. "It hasn't occurred to me to be afraid of how
it may turn out. Why borrow trouble when there's plenty at hand? I don't care whether you love
me or not, right now. You couldn't possibly be any worse off as my wife, could you?"

"No," she admitted. "I don't see how I could."

"Take a chance then," he urged. "I'll make a fair bargain with you. I'll make life as pleasant
for you as I can. You'll live pretty much as you've been brought up to live, so far as money
goes. The rest we'll have to work out for ourselves. I won't ask you to pretend anything you
don't feel. You'll play fair, because that's the way you're made,--unless I've sized you up
wrong. It'll simply be a case of our adjusting ourselves, just as mating couples have been
doing since the year one. You've everything to gain and nothing to lose."

"In some ways," she murmured.

"Every way," he insisted. "You aren't handicapped by caring for any other man."

"How do you know?" she asked.

"Just a hunch," Fyfe smiled. "If you did, he'd have beaten me to the rescue long ago--if he
were the sort of man you could care for."

"No," she admitted. "There isn't any other man, but there might be. Think how terrible it would
be if it happened--afterward."

Fyfe shrugged his shoulders.

"Sufficient unto the day," he said. "There is no string on either of us just now. We start
even. That's good enough. Will you?"

"You have me at a disadvantage," she whispered. "You offer me a lot that I want, everything
but a feeling I've somehow always believed ought to exist, ought to be mutual. Part of me wants
to shut my eyes and jump. Part of me wants to hang back. I can't stand this thing I've got
into and see no way of getting out of. Yet I dread starting a new train of wretchedness. I'm
afraid--whichever way I turn."

Fyfe considered this a moment.

"Well," he said finally, "that's a rather unfortunate attitude. But I'm going into it with
my eyes open. I know what I want. You'll be making a sort of experiment. Still, I advise you
to make it. I think you'll be the better for making it. Come on. Say yes."

Stella looked up at him, then out over the banked snow, and all the dreary discomforts, the
mean drudgery, the sordid shifts she had been put to for months rose up in disheartening phalanx.
For that moment Jack Fyfe loomed like a tower of refuge. She trusted him now. She had a feeling
that even if she grew to dislike him, she would still trust him. He would play fair. If he
said he would do this or that, she could bank on it absolutely.

She turned and looked at him searchingly a long half-minute, wondering what really lay behind
the blue eyes that met her own so steadfastly. He stood waiting patiently, outwardly impassive.
But she could feel through the thin stuff of her dress a quiver in the fingers that rested
on her shoulder, and that repressed sign of the man's pent-up feeling gave her an odd thrill,
moved her strangely, swung the pendulum of her impulse.

"Yes," she said.

Fyfe bent a little lower.

"Listen," he said in characteristically blunt fashion. "You want to get away from here. There
is no sense in our fussing or hesitating about what we're going to do, is there?"

"No, I suppose not," she agreed.

"I'll send the Panther down to the Springs for Lefty Howe's wife," he outlined his plans unhesitatingly.
"She'll get up here this evening. To-morrow we will go down and take the train to Vancouver
and be married. You have plenty of good clothes, good enough for Vancouver. I know,"--with
a whimsical smile,--"because you had no chance to wear them out. Then we'll go somewhere, California,
Florida, and come back to Roaring Lake in the spring. You'll have all the bad taste of this
out of your mouth by that time."

Stella nodded acquiescence. Better to make the plunge boldly, since she had elected to make it.

"All right. I'm going to tell Benton," Fyfe said. "Good-by till to-morrow."

She stood up. He looked at her a long time earnestly, searchingly, one of her hands imprisoned
tight between his two big palms. Then, before she was quite aware of his intention, he kissed
her gently on the mouth, and was gone.

       *       *       *       *       *

This turn of events left Benton dumbfounded, to use a trite but expressive phrase. He came
in, apparently to look at Stella in amazed curiosity, for at first he had nothing to say. He
sat down beside his makeshift desk and pawed over some papers, running the fingers of one hand
through his thick brown hair.

"Well, Sis," he blurted out at last. "I suppose you know what you're doing?"

"I think so," Stella returned composedly.

"But why all this mad haste?" he asked. "If you're going to get married, why didn't you let
me know, so I could give you some sort of decent send-off."

"Oh, thanks," she returned dryly. "I don't think that's necessary. Not at this stage of the
game, as you occasionally remark."

He ruminated upon this a minute, flushing slightly.

"Well, I wish you luck," he said sincerely enough. "Though I can hardly realize this sudden
move. You and Jack Fyfe may get on all right. He's a good sort--in his way."

"His way suits me," she said, spurred to the defensive by what she deemed a note of disparagement
in his utterance. "If you have any objections or criticisms, you can save your breath--or address
them direct to Mr. Fyfe."

"No, thank you," he grinned. "I don't care to get into any argument with him, especially as
he's going to be my brother-in-law. Fyfe's all right. I didn't imagine he was the sort of man
you'd fancy, that's all."

Stella refrained from any comment on this. She had no intention of admitting to Charlie that
marriage with Jack Fyfe commended itself to her chiefly as an avenue of escape from a well-nigh
intolerable condition which he himself had inflicted upon her. Her pride rose in arms against
any such belittling admission. She admitted it frankly to herself,--and to Fyfe,--because Fyfe
understood and was content with that understanding. She desired to forget that phase of the
transaction. She told herself that she meant honestly to make the best of it.

Benton turned again to his papers. He did not broach the subject again until in the distance
the squat hull of the Panther began to show on her return from the Springs. Then he came to
where Stella was putting the last of her things into her trunk. He had some banknotes in one
hand, and a check.

"Here's that ninety I borrowed, Stell," he said. "And a check for your back pay. Things have
been sort of lean around here, maybe, but I still think it's a pity you couldn't have stuck
it out till it came smoother. I hate to see you going away with a chronic grouch against me.
I suppose I wouldn't even be a welcome guest at the wedding?"

"No," she said unforgivingly. "Some things are a little too--too recent."

"Oh," he replied casually enough, pausing in the doorway a second on his way out, "you'll get
over that. You'll find that ordinary, everyday living isn't any kid-glove affair."

She sat on the closed lid of her trunk, looking at the check and money. Three hundred and sixty
dollars, all told. A month ago that would have spelled freedom, a chance to try her luck in
less desolate fields. Well, she tried to consider the thing philosophically; it was no use
to bewail what might have been. In her hands now lay the sinews of a war she had forgone all
need of waging. It did not occur to her to repudiate her bargain with Jack Fyfe. She had given
her promise, and she considered she was bound, irrevocably. Indeed, for the moment, she was
glad of that. She was worn out, all weary with unaccustomed stress of body and mind. To her,
just then, rest seemed the sweetest boon in the world. Any port in a storm, expressed her mood.
What came after was to be met as it came. She was too tired to anticipate.

It was a pale, weary-eyed young woman, dressed in the same plain tailored suit she had worn
into the country, who was cuddled to Mrs. Howe's plump bosom when she went aboard the Panther
for the first stage of her journey.

A slaty bank of cloud spread a somber film across the sky. When the Panther laid her ice-sheathed
guard-rail against the Hot Springs wharf the sun was down. The lake spread gray and lifeless
under a gray sky, and Stella Benton's spirits were steeped in that same dour color.

CHAPTER XII

AND SO THEY WERE MARRIED

Spring had waved her transforming wand over the lake region before the Fyfes came home again.
All the low ground, the creeks and hollows and banks, were bright green with new-leaved birch
and alder and maple. The air was full of those aromatic exudations the forest throws off when
it is in the full tide of the growing time. Shores that Stella had last seen dismal and forlorn
in the frost-fog, sheathed in ice, banked with deep snow, lay sparkling now in warm sunshine,
under an unflecked arch of blue. All that was left of winter was the white cap on Mount Douglas,
snow-filled chasms on distant, rocky peaks. Stella stood on the Hot Springs wharf looking out
across the emerald deep of the lake, thinking soberly of the contrast.

Something, she reflected, some part of that desolate winter, must have seeped to the very roots
of her being to produce the state of mind in which she embarked upon that matrimonial voyage.
A little of it clung to her still. She could look back at those months of loneliness, of immeasurable
toil and numberless indignities, without any qualms. There would be no repetition of that.
The world at large would say she had done well. She herself in her most cynical moments could
not deny that she had done well. Materially, life promised to be generous. She was married
to a man who quietly but inexorably got what he wanted, and it was her good fortune that he
wanted her to have the best of everything.

She saw him now coming from the hotel, and she regarded him thoughtfully, a powerful figure
swinging along with light, effortless steps. He was back on his own ground, openly glad to
be back. Yet she could not recall that he had ever shown himself at a disadvantage anywhere
they had been together. He wore evening clothes when occasion required as unconcernedly as
he wore mackinaws and calked boots among his loggers. She had not yet determined whether his
equable poise arose from an unequivocal democracy of spirit, or from sheer egotism. At any
rate, where she had set out with subtle misgivings, she had to admit that socially, at least,
Jack Fyfe could play his hand at any turn of the game. Where or how he came by this faculty,
she did not know. In fact, so far as Jack Fyfe's breeding and antecedents were concerned, she
knew little more than before their marriage. He was not given to reminiscence. His people--distant
relatives--lived in her own native state of Pennsylvania. He had an only sister who was now
in South America with her husband, a civil engineer. Beyond that Fyfe did not go, and Stella
made no attempt to pry up the lid of his past. She was not particularly curious.

Her clearest judgment of him was at first hand. He was a big, virile type of man, generous,
considerate, so sure of himself that he could be tolerant of others. She could easily understand
why Roaring Lake considered Jack Fyfe "square." The other tales of him that circulated there
she doubted now. The fighting type he certainly was, aggressive in a clash, but if there were
any downright coarseness in him, it had never manifested itself to her. She was not sorry she
had married him. If they had not set out blind in a fog of sentiment, as he had once put it,
nevertheless they got on. She did not love him,--not as she defined that magic word,--but she
liked him, was mildly proud of him. When he kissed her, if there were no mad thrill in it,
there was at least a passive contentment in having inspired that affection. For he left her
in no doubt as to where he stood, not by what he said, but wholly by his actions.

He joined her now. The Panther, glossy black as a crow's wing with fresh paint, lay at the
pier-end with their trunks aboard. Stella surveyed those marked with her initials, looking
them over with a critical eye, when they reached the deck.

"How in the world did I ever manage to accumulate so much stuff, Jack?" she asked quizzically.
"I didn't realize it. We might have been doing Europe with souvenir collecting our principal
aim, by the amount of our baggage."

Fyfe smiled, without commenting. They sat on a trunk and watched Roaring Springs fall astern,
dwindle to a line of white dots against the great green base of the mountain that rose behind it.

"It's good to get back here," he said at last. "To me, anyway. How about it, Stella? You haven't
got so much of a grievance with the world in general as you had when we left, eh?"

"No, thank goodness," she responded fervently.

"You don't look as if you had," he observed, his eyes admiringly upon her.

Nor had she. There was a bloom on the soft contour of her cheek, a luminous gleam in her wide,
gray eyes. All the ill wrought by months of drudging work and mental revolt had vanished. She
was undeniably good to look at, a woman in full flower, round-bodied, deep-breasted, aglow
with the unquenched fires of youth. She was aware that Jack Fyfe found her so and tolerably
glad that he did so find her. She had revised a good many of her first groping estimates of
him that winter. And when she looked over the port bow and saw in behind Halfway Point the
huddled shacks of her brother's camp where so much had overtaken her, she experienced a swift
rush of thankfulness that she was--as she was. She slid her gloved hand impulsively into Jack
Fyfe's, and his strong fingers shut down on hers closely.

They sat silent until the camp lay abeam. About it there was every sign of activity. A chunky
stern-wheeler, with blow-off valve hissing, stood by a boom of logs in the bay, and men were
moving back and forth across the swifters, making all ready for a tow. Stella marked a new
bunkhouse. Away back on the logging ground in a greater clearing she saw the separate smoke
of two donkey engines. Another, a big roader, Fyfe explained, puffed at the water's edge. She
could see a string of logs tearing down the skid-road.

"He's going pretty strong, that brother of yours," Fyfe remarked. "If he holds his gait, he'll
be a big timberman before you know it."

"He'll make money, I imagine," Stella admitted, "but I don't know what good that will do him.
He'll only want more. What is there about money-making that warps some men so, makes them so
grossly self-centered? I'd pity any girl who married Charlie. He used to be rather wild at
home, but I never dreamed any man could change so."

"You use the conventional measuring-stick on him," her husband answered, with that tolerance
which so often surprised her. "Maybe his ways are pretty crude. But he's feverishly hewing
a competence--which is what we're all after--out of pretty crude material. And he's just a
kid, after all, with a kid's tendency to go to extremes now and then. I kinda like the beggar's
ambition and energy."

"But he hasn't the least consideration for anybody or anything," Stella protested. "He rides
rough-shod over every one. That isn't either right or decent."

"It's the only way some men can get to the top," Fyfe answered quietly. "They concentrate on
the object to be attained. That's all that counts until they're in a secure position. Then,
when they stop to draw their breath, sometimes they find they've done lots of things they wouldn't
do again. You watch. By and by Charlie Benton will cease to have those violent reactions that
offend you so. As it is--he's a youngster, bucking a big game. Life, when you have your own
way to hew through it, with little besides your hands and brain for capital, is no silk-lined
affair."

She fell into thought over this reply. Fyfe had echoed almost her brother's last words to her.
And she wondered if Jack Fyfe had attained that degree of economic power which enabled him
to spend several thousand dollars on a winter's pleasuring with her by the exercise of a strong
man's prerogative of overriding the weak, bending them to his own inflexible purposes, ruthlessly
turning everything to his own advantage? If women came under the same head! She recalled Katy
John, and her face burned. Perhaps. But she could not put Jack Fyfe in her brother's category.
He didn't fit. Deep in her heart there still lurked an abiding resentment against Charlie Benton
for the restraint he had put upon her and the license he had arrogated to himself. She could
not convince herself that the lapses of that winter were not part and parcel of her brother's
philosophy of life, a coarse and material philosophy.

Presently they were drawing in to Cougar Point, with the weather-bleached buildings of Fyfe's
camp showing now among the upspringing second-growth scrub. Fyfe went forward and spoke to
the man at the wheel. The Panther swung offshore.

"Why are we going out again?" Stella asked.

"Oh, just for fun," Fyfe smiled.

He sat down beside her and slipped one arm around her waist. In a few minutes they cleared
the point. Stella was looking away across the lake, at the deep cleft where Silver Creek split
a mountain range in twain.

"Look around," said he, "and tell me what you think of the House of Fyfe."

There it stood, snow-white, broad-porched, a new house reared upon the old stone foundation
she remembered. The noon sun struck flashing on the windows. About it spread the living green
of the grassy square, behind that towered the massive, darker-hued background of the forest.

"Oh," she exclaimed. "What wizard of construction did the work. That was why you fussed so
long over those plans in Los Angeles. I thought it was to be this summer or maybe next winter.
I never dreamed you were having it built right away."

"Well, isn't it rather nice to come home to?" he observed.

"It's dear. A homey looking place," she answered. "A beautiful site, and the house fits,--that
white and the red tiles. Is the big stone fireplace in the living room, Jack?"

"Yes, and one in pretty nearly every other room besides," he nodded. "Wood fires are cheerful."

The Panther turned her nose shoreward at Fyfe's word.

"I wondered about that foundation the first time I saw it," Stella confessed, "whether you
built it, and why it was never finished. There was moss over the stones in places. And that
lawn wasn't made in a single season. I know, because dad had a country place once, and he was
raging around two or three summers because the land was so hard to get well-grassed."

"No, I didn't build the foundation or make the lawn," Fyfe told her. "I merely kept it in shape.
A man named Hale owned the land that takes in the bay and the point when I first came to the
lake. He was going to be married. I knew him pretty well. But it was tough going those days.
He was in the hole on some of his timber, and he and his girl kept waiting. Meantime he cleared
and graded that little hill, sowed it to grass, and laid the foundation. He was about to start
building when he was killed. A falling tree caught him. I bought in his land and the timber
limits that lie back of it. That's how the foundation came there."

"It's a wonder it didn't grow up wild," Stella mused. "How long ago was that?"

"About five years," Fyfe said. "I kept the grass trimmed. It didn't seem right to let the brush
overrun it after the poor devil put that labor of love on it. It always seemed to me that it
should be kept smooth and green, and that there should be a big, roomy bungalow there. You
see my hunch was correct, too."

She looked up at him in some wonder. She hadn't accustomed herself to associating Jack Fyfe
with actions based on pure sentiment. He was too intensely masculine, solid, practical, impassive.
He did not seem to realize even that sentiment had influenced him in this. He discussed it
too matter-of-factly for that. She wondered what became of the bride-to-be. But that Fyfe could
not tell her.

"Hale showed me her picture once," he said, "but I never saw her. Oh, I suppose she's married
some other fellow long ago. Hale was a good sort. He was out-lucked, that's all."

The Panther slid in to the float. Jack and Stella went ashore. Lefty Howe came down to meet
them. Thirty-five or forty men were stringing away from the camp, back to their work in the
woods. Some waved greeting to Jack Fyfe, and he waved back in the hail-fellow fashion of the camps.

"How's the frau, Lefty?" he inquired, after they had shaken hands.

"Fine. Down to Vancouver. Sister's sick," Howe answered laconically. "House's all shipshape.
Wanta eat here, or up there?"

"Here at the camp, until we get straightened around," Fyfe responded. "Tell Pollock to have
something for us in about half an hour. We'll go up and take a look."

Howe went in to convey this message, and the two set off up the path. A sudden spirit of impishness
made Jack Fyfe sprint. Stella gathered up her skirt and raced after him, but a sudden shortness
of breath overtook her, and she came panting to where Fyfe had stopped to wait.

"You'll have to climb hills and row and swim so you'll get some wind," Fyfe chuckled. "Too
much easy living, lady."

She smiled without making any reply to this sally, and they entered the house--the House of
Fyfe, that was to be her home.

If the exterior had pleased her, she went from room to room inside with growing amazement.
Fyfe had finished it from basement to attic without a word to her that he had any such undertaking
in hand. Yet there was scarcely a room in which she could not find the visible result of some
expressed wish or desire. Often during the winter they had talked over the matter of furnishings,
and she recalled how unconsciously she had been led to make suggestions which he had stored
up and acted upon. For the rest she found her husband's taste beyond criticism. There were
drapes and rugs and prints and odds and ends that any woman might be proud to have in her home.

"You're an amazing sort of a man, Jack," she said thoughtfully. "Is there anything you're not
up to? Even a Chinese servant in the kitchen. It's perfect."

"I'm glad you like it," he said. "I hoped you would."

"Who wouldn't?" she cried impulsively. "I love pretty things. Wait till I get done rearranging."

They introduced themselves to the immobile-featured Celestial when they had jointly and severally
inspected the house from top to bottom. Sam Foo gazed at them, listened to their account of
themselves, and disappeared. He re-entered the room presently, bearing a package.

"Mist' Chol' Bentlee him leave foh yo'."

Stella looked at it. On the outer wrapping was written:

    From C.A. Benton to Mrs. John Henderson Fyfe
    A Belated Wedding Gift

She cut the string, and delved into the cardboard box, and gasped. Out of a swathing of tissue
paper her hands bared sundry small articles. A little cap and jacket of knitted silk--its double
in fine, fleecy yarn--a long silk coat--a bonnet to match,--both daintily embroidered. Other
things--a shoal of them--baby things. A grin struggled for lodgment on Fyfe's freckled countenance.
His blue eyes twinkled.

"I suppose," he growled, "that's Charlie's idea of a joke, huh?"

Stella turned away from the tiny garments, one little, hood crumpled tight in her hand. She
laid her hot face against his breast and her shoulders quivered. She was crying.

"Stella, Stella, what's the matter?" he whispered.

"It's no joke," she sobbed. "It's a--it's a reality."

CHAPTER XIII

IN WHICH EVENTS MARK TIME

From that day on Stella found in her hands the reins over a smooth, frictionless, well-ordered
existence. Sam Foo proved himself such a domestic treasure as only the trained Oriental can
be. When the labor of an eight-room dwelling proved a little too much for him, he urbanely
said so. Thereupon, at Fyfe's suggestion, he imported a fellow countryman, another bland, silent-footed
model of efficiency in personal service. Thereafter Stella's task of supervision proved a sinecure.

A week or so after their return, in sorting over some of her belongings, she came across the
check Charlie had given her: that two hundred and seventy dollars which represented the only
money she had ever earned in her life. She studied it a minute, then went out to where her
husband sat perched on the verandah rail.

"You might cash this, Jack," she suggested.

He glanced at the slip.

"Better have it framed as a memento," he said, smiling. "You'll never earn two hundred odd
dollars so hard again, I hope. No, I'd keep it, if I were you. If ever you should need it,
it'll always be good--unless Charlie goes broke."

There never had been any question of money between them. From the day of their marriage Fyfe
had made her a definite monthly allowance, a greater sum than she needed or spent.

"As a matter of fact," he went on, "I'm going to open an account in your name at the Royal
Bank, so you can negotiate your own paper and pay your own bills by check."

She went in and put away the check. It was hers, earned, all too literally, in the sweat of
her brow. For all that it represented she had given service threefold. If ever there came a
time when that hunger for independence which had been fanned to a flame in her brother's kitchen
should demand appeasement--she pulled herself up short when she found her mind running upon
such an eventuality. Her future was ordered. She was married--to be a mother. Here lay her
home. All about her ties were in process of formation, ties that with time would grow stronger
than any shackles of steel, constraining her to walk in certain ways,--ways that were pleasant
enough, certain of ease if not of definite purpose.

Yet now and then she found herself falling into fits of abstraction in which Roaring Lake and
Jack Fyfe, all that meant anything to her now, faded into the background, and she saw herself
playing a lone hand against the world, making her individual struggle to be something more
than the petted companion of a dominant male and the mother of his children. She never quite
lost sight of the fact that marriage had been the last resort, that in effect she had taken
the avenue her personal charm afforded to escape drudgery and isolation. There was still deep-rooted
in her a craving for something bigger than mere ease of living. She knew as well as she knew
anything that in the natural evolution of things marriage and motherhood should have been the
big thing in her life. And it was not. It was too incidental, too incomplete, too much like
a mere breathing-place on life's highway. Sometimes she reasoned with herself bluntly, instead
of dreaming, was driven to look facts in the eye because she did dream. Always she encountered
the same obstacle, a feeling that she had been defrauded, robbed of something vital; she had
forgone that wonderful, passionate drawing together which makes the separate lives of the man
and woman who experiences it so fuse that in the truest sense of the word they become one.

Mostly she kept her mind from that disturbing introspection, because invariably it led her
to vague dreaming of a future which she told herself--sometimes wistfully--could never be realized.
She had shut the door on many things, it seemed to her now. But she had the sense to know that
dwelling on what might have been only served to make her morbid, and did not in the least serve
to alter the unalterable. She had chosen what seemed to her at the time the least of two evils,
and she meant to abide steadfast by her choice.

Charlie Benton came to visit them. Strangely enough to Stella, who had never seen him on Roaring
Lake, at least, dressed otherwise than as his loggers, he was sporting a natty gray suit, he
was clean shaven, Oxford ties on his feet, a gentleman of leisure in his garb. If he had started
on the down grade the previous winter, he bore no signs of it now, for he was the picture of
ruddy vigor, clear-eyed, brown-skinned, alert, bubbling over with good spirits.

"Why, say, you look like a tourist," Fyfe remarked after an appraising glance.

"I'm making money, pulling ahead of the game, that's all," Benton retorted cheerfully. "I can
afford to take a holiday now and then. I'm putting a million feet a month in the water. That's
going some for small fry like me. Say, this house of yours is all to the good, Jack. It's got
class, outside and in. Makes a man feel as if he had to live up to it, eh? Mackinaws and calked
boots don't go with oriental rugs and oak floors."

"You should get a place like this as soon as possible then," Stella put in drily, "to keep
you up to the mark, on edge aesthetically, one might put it."

"Not to say morally," Benton laughed. "Oh, maybe I'll get to it by and by, if the timber business
holds up."

Later, when he and Stella were alone together, he said to her:

"You're lucky. You've got everything, and it comes without an effort. You sure showed good
judgment when you picked Jack Fyfe. He's a thoroughbred."

"Oh, thank you," she returned, a touch of irony in her voice, a subtlety of inflection that
went clean over Charlie's head.

He was full of inquiries about where they had been that winter, what they had done and seen.
Also he brimmed over with his own affairs. He stayed overnight and went his way with a brotherly
threat of making the Fyfe bungalow his headquarters whenever he felt like it.

"It's a touch of civilization that looks good to me," he declared. "You can put my private
mark on one of those big leather chairs, Jack. I'm going to use it often. All you need to make
this a social center is a good-looking girl or two--unmarried ones. You watch. When the summer
flock comes to the lake, your place is going to be popular."

That observation verified Benton's shrewdness. The Fyfe bungalow did become popular. Two weeks
after Charlie's visit, a lean, white cruiser, all brass and mahogany above her topsides, slid
up to the float, and two women came at a dignified pace along the path to the house. Stella
had met Linda Abbey once, reluctantly, under the circumstances, but it was different now--with
the difference that money makes. She could play hostess against an effective background, and
she did so graciously. Nor was her graciousness wholly assumed. After all, they were her kind
of people: Linda, fair-haired, perfectly gowned, perfectly mannered, sweetly pretty; Mrs. Abbey,
forty-odd and looking thirty-five, with that calm self-assurance which wealth and position
confer upon those who hold it securely. Stella found them altogether to her liking. It pleased
her, too, that Jack happened in to meet them. He was not a scintillating talker, yet she had
noticed that when he had anything to say, he never failed to attract and hold attention. His
quiet, impersonal manner never suggested stolidness. And she was too keen an observer to overlook
the fact that from a purely physical standpoint Jack Fyfe made an impression always, particularly
on women. Throughout that winter it had not disturbed her. It did not disturb her now, when
she noticed Linda Abbey's gaze coming back to him with a veiled appraisal in her blue eyes
that were so like Fyfe's own in their tendency to twinkle and gleam with no corresponding play
of features.

"We'll expect to see a good deal of you this summer," Mrs. Abbey said cordially at leave-taking.
"We have a few people up from town now and then to vary the monotony of feasting our souls
on scenery. Sometimes we are quite a jolly crowd. Don't be formal. Drop in when you feel the
inclination."

When Stella reminded Jack of this some time later, in a moment of boredom, he put the Panther
at her disposal for the afternoon. But he would not go himself. He had opened up a new outlying
camp, and he had directions to issue, work to lay out.

"You hold up the social end of the game," he laughed. "I'll hustle logs."

So Stella invaded the Abbey-Monohan precincts by herself and enjoyed it--for she met a houseful
of young people from the coast, and in that light-hearted company she forgot for the time being
that she was married and the responsible mistress of a house. Paul Abbey was there, but he
had apparently forgotten or forgiven the blow she had once dealt his vanity. Paul, she reflected,
was not the sort to mourn a lost love long.

She had the amused experience too of beholding Charlie Benton appear an hour or so before she
departed and straightway monopolize Linda Abbey in his characteristically impetuous fashion.
Charlie was no diplomat. He believed in driving straight to any goal he selected.

"So that's the reason for the outward metamorphosis," Stella reflected. "Well?"

Altogether she enjoyed the afternoon hugely. The only fly in her ointment was a greasy smudge
bestowed upon her dress--a garment she prized highly--by some cordage coiled on the Panther's
deck. The black tender had carried too many cargoes of loggers and logging supplies to be a
fit conveyance for persons in party attire. She exhibited the soiled gown to Fyfe with due
vexation.

"I hope you'll have somebody scrub down the Panther the next time I want to go anywhere in
a decent dress," she said ruefully. "That'll never come out. And it's the prettiest thing I've
got too."

"Ah, what's the odds?" Fyfe slipped one arm around her waist. "You can buy more dresses. Did
you have a good time? That's the thing!"

That ruined gown, however, subsequently produced an able, forty-foot, cruising launch, powerfully
engined, easy in a sea, and comfortably, even luxuriously fitted as to cabin. With that for
their private use, the Panther was left to her appointed service, and in the new boat Fyfe
and Stella spent many a day abroad on Roaring Lake. They fished together, explored nooks and
bays up and down its forty miles of length, climbed hills together like the bear of the ancient
rhyme, to see what they could see. And the Waterbug served to put them on intimate terms with
their neighbors, particularly the Abbey crowd. The Abbeys took to them wholeheartedly. Fyfe
himself was highly esteemed by the elder Abbey, largely, Stella suspected, for his power on
Roaring Lake. Abbey père had built up a big fortune out of timber. He respected any man who
could follow the same path to success. Therefore he gave Fyfe double credit,--for making good,
and for a personality that could not be overlooked. He told Stella that once; that is to say,
he told her confidentially that her husband was a very "able" young man. Abbey senior was short
and double-chinned and inclined to profuse perspiration if he moved in haste over any extended
time. Paul promised to be like him, in that respect.

Summer slipped by. There were dances, informal little hops at the Abbey domicile, return engagements
at the Fyfe bungalow, laughter and music and Japanese lanterns strung across the lawn. There
was tea and tennis and murmuring rivers of small talk. And amid this Stella Fyfe flitted graciously,
esteeming it her world, a fair measure of what the future might be. Viewed in that light, it
seemed passable enough.

Later, when summer was on the wane, she withdrew from much of this activity, spending those
days when she did not sit buried in a book out on the water with her husband. When October
ushered in the first of the fall rains, they went to Vancouver and took apartments. In December
her son was born.

CHAPTER XIV

A CLOSE CALL AND A NEW ACQUAINTANCE

With the recurrence of spring, Fyfe's household transferred itself to the Roaring Lake bungalow
again. Stella found the change welcome, for Vancouver wearied her. It was a little too crude,
too much as yet in the transitory stage, in that civic hobbledehoy period which overtakes every
village that shoots up over-swiftly to a city's dimensions. They knew people, to be sure, for
the Abbey influence would have opened the way for them into any circle. Stella had made many
friends and pleasant acquaintances that summer on the lake, but part of that butterfly clique
sought pleasanter winter grounds before she was fit for social activity. Apart from a few more
or less formal receptions and an occasional auction party, she found it pleasanter to stay
at home. Fyfe himself had spent only part of his time in town after their boy was born. He
was extending his timber operations. What he did not put into words, but what Stella sensed
because she experienced the same thing herself, was that town bored him to death,--such town
existence as Vancouver afforded. Their first winter had been different, because they had sought
places where there was manifold variety of life, color, amusement. She was longing for the
wide reach of Roaring Lake, the immense amphitheater of the surrounding mountains, long before
spring.

So she was quite as well pleased when a mild April saw them domiciled at home again. In addition
to Sam Foo and Feng Shu, there was a nurse for Jack Junior. Stella did not suggest that; Fyfe
insisted on it. He was quite proud of his boy, but he did not want her chained to her baby.

"If the added expense doesn't count, of course a nurse will mean a lot more personal freedom,"
Stella admitted. "You see, I haven't the least idea of your resources, Jack. All I know about
it is that you allow me plenty of money for my individual expenses. And I notice we're acquiring
a more expensive mode of living all the time."

"That's so," Fyfe responded. "I never have gone into any details of my business with you. No
reason why you shouldn't know what limits there are to our income. You never happened to express
any curiosity before. Operating as I did up till lately, the business netted anywhere from
twelve to fifteen thousand a year. I'll double that this season. In fact, with the amount of
standing timber I control, I could make it fifty thousand a year by expanding and speeding
things up. I guess you needn't worry about an extra servant or two."

So, apart from voluntary service on behalf of Jack Junior, she was free as of old to order
her days as she pleased. Yet that small morsel of humanity demanded much of her time, because
she released through the maternal floodgates a part of that passionate longing to bestow love
where her heart willed. Sometimes she took issue with herself over that wayward tendency. By
all the rules of the game, she should have loved her husband. He was like a rock, solid, enduring,
patient, kind, and generous. He stood to her in the most intimate relation that can exist between
a man and a woman. But she never fooled herself; she never had so far as Jack Fyfe was concerned.
She liked him, but that was all. He was good to her, and she was grateful.

Sometimes she had a dim sense that under his easy-going exterior lurked a capacity for tremendously
passionate outbreak. If she had been compelled to modify her first impression of him as an
arrogant, dominant sort of character, scarcely less rough than the brown firs out of which
he was hewing a fortune, she knew likewise that she had never seen anything but the sunny side
of him. He still puzzled her a little at times; there were odd flashes of depths she could
not see into, a quality of unexpectedness in things he would do and say. Even so, granting
that in him was embodied so much that other men she knew lacked, she did not love him; there
were indeed times when she almost resented him.

Why, she could not perhaps have put into words. It seemed too fantastic for sober summing-up,
when she tried. But lurking always in the background of her thoughts was the ghost of an unrealized
dream, a nebulous vision which once served to thrill her in secret. It could never be anything
but a vision, she believed now, and believing, regretted. The cold facts of her existence couldn't
be daydreamed away. She was married, and marriage put a full stop to the potential adventuring
of youth. Twenty and maidenhood lies at the opposite pole from twenty-four and matrimony. Stella
subscribed to that. She took for her guiding-star--theoretically--the twin concepts of morality
and duty as she had been taught to construe them. So she saw no loophole, and seeing none,
felt cheated of something infinitely precious. Marriage and motherhood had not come to her
as the fruits of love, as the passionately eager fulfilling of her destiny. It had been thrust
upon her. She had accepted it as a last resort at a time when her powers of resistance to misfortune
were at the ebb.

She knew that this sort of self-communing was a bad thing, that it was bound to sour the whole
taste of life in her mouth. As much as possible she thrust aside those vague, repressed longings.
Materially she had everything. If she had foregone that bargain with Jack Fyfe, God only knew
what long-drawn agony of mind and body circumstances and Charlie Benton's subordination of
her to his own ends might have inflicted upon her. That was the reverse of her shield, but
one that grew dimmer as time passed. Mostly, she took life as she found it, concentrating upon
Jack Junior, a sturdy boy with blue eyes like his father, and who grew steadily more adorable.

Nevertheless she had recurring periods when moodiness and ill-stifled discontent got hold of
her. Sometimes she stole out along the cliffs to sit on a mossy boulder, staring with absent
eyes at the distant hills. And sometimes she would slip out in a canoe, to lie rocking in the
lake swell,--just dreaming, filled with a passive sort of regret. She could not change things
now, but she could not help wishing she could.

Fyfe warned her once about getting offshore in the canoe. Roaring Lake, pent in the shape of
a boomerang between two mountain ranges, was subject to squalls. Sudden bursts of wind would
shoot down its length like blasts from some monster funnel. Stella knew that; she had seen
the glassy surface torn into whitecaps in ten minutes, but she was not afraid of the lake nor
the lake winds. She was hard and strong. The open, the clean mountain air, and a measure of
activity, had built her up physically. She swam like a seal. Out in that sixteen-foot Peterboro
she could detach herself from her world of reality, lie back on a cushion, and lose herself
staring at the sky. She paid little heed to Fyfe's warning beyond a smiling assurance that
she had no intention of courting a watery end.

So one day in mid-July she waved a farewell to Jack Junior, crowing in his nurse's lap on the
bank, paddled out past the first point to the north, and pillowing her head on a cushioned
thwart, gave herself up to dreamy contemplation on the sky. There was scarce a ripple on the
lake. A faint breath of an offshore breeze fanned her, drifting the canoe at a snail's pace
out from land. Stella luxuriated in the quiet afternoon. A party of campers cruising the lake
had tarried at the bungalow till after midnight. Jack Fyfe had risen at dawn to depart for
some distant logging point. Stella, once wakened, had risen and breakfasted with him. She was
tired, drowsy, content to lie there in pure physical relaxation. Lying so, before she was aware
of it, her eyes closed.

She wakened with a start at a cold touch of moisture on her face,--rain, great pattering drops.
Overhead an ominously black cloud hid the face of the sun. The shore, when she looked, lay
a mile and a half abeam. To the north and between her and the land's rocky line was a darkening
of the lake's surface. Stella reached for her paddle. The black cloud let fall long, gray streamers
of rain. There was scarcely a stirring of the air, but that did not deceive her. There was
a growing chill, and there was that broken line sweeping down the lake. Behind that was wind,
a summer gale, the black squall dreaded by the Siwashes.

She had to buck her way to shore through that. She drove hard on the paddle. She was not afraid,
but there rose in her a peculiar tensed-up feeling. Ahead lay a ticklish bit of business. The
sixteen-foot canoe dwarfed to pitiful dimensions in the face of that snarling line of wind-harried
water. She could hear the distant murmur of it presently, and gusty puffs of wind began to
strike her.

Then it swept up to her, a ripple, a chop, and very close behind that the short, steep, lake
combers with a wind that blew off the tops as each wave-head broke in white, bubbling froth.
Immediately she began to lose ground. She had expected that, and it did not alarm her. If she
could keep the canoe bow on, there was an even chance that the squall would blow itself out
in half an hour. But keeping the canoe bow on proved a task for stout arms. The wind would
catch all that forward part which thrust clear as she topped a sea and twist it aside, tending
always to throw her broadside into the trough. Spray began to splash aboard. The seas were
so short and steep that the Peterboro would rise over the crest of a tall one and dip its bow
deep in the next, or leap clear to strike with a slap that made Stella's heart jump. She had
never undergone quite that rough and tumble experience in a small craft. She was being beaten
farther out and down the lake, and her arms were growing tired. Nor was there any slackening
of the wind.

The combined rain and slaps of spray soaked her thoroughly. A puddle gathered about her knees
in the bilge, sloshing fore and aft as the craft pitched, killing the natural buoyancy of the
canoe so that she dove harder. Stella took a chance, ceased paddling, and bailed with a small
can. She got a tossing that made her head swim while she lay in the trough. And when she tried
to head up into it again, one comber bigger than its fellows reared up and slapped a barrel
of water inboard. The next wave swamped her.

Sunk to the clamps, Stella held fast to the topsides, crouching on her knees, immersed to the
hips in water that struck a chill through her flesh. She had the wit to remember and act upon
Jack Fyfe's coaching, namely, to sit tight and hang on. No sea that ever ran can sink a canoe.
Wood is buoyant. So long as she could hold on, the submerged craft would keep her head and
shoulders above water. But it was numbing cold. Fed by glacial streams, Roaring Lake is icy
in hottest midsummer.

What with paddling and bailing and the excitement of the struggle, Stella had wasted no time
gazing about for other boats. She knew that if any one at the camp saw her, rescue would be
speedily effected. Now, holding fast and sitting quiet, she looked eagerly about as the swamped
canoe rose loggily on each wave. Almost immediately she was heartened by seeing distinctly
some sort of craft plunging through the blow. She had not long to wait after that, for the
approaching launch was a lean-lined speeder, powerfully engined, and she was being forced.
Stella supposed it was one of the Abbey runabouts. Even with her teeth chattering and numbness
fastening itself upon her, she shivered at the chances the man was taking. It was no sea for
a speed boat to smash into at thirty miles an hour. She saw it shoot off the top of one wave
and disappear in a white burst of spray, slash through the next and bury itself deep again,
flinging a foamy cloud far to port and starboard. Stella cried futilely to the man to slow
down. She could hang on a long time yet, but her voice carried no distance.

After that she had not long to wait. In four minutes the runabout was within a hundred yards,
open exhausts cracking like a machine gun. And then the very thing she expected and dreaded
came about. Every moment she expected to see him drive bows under and go down. Here and there
at intervals uplifted a comber taller than its fellows, standing, just as it broke, like a
green wall. Into one such hoary-headed sea the white boat now drove like a lance. Stella saw
the spray leap like a cascade, saw the solid green curl deep over the forward deck and engine
hatch and smash the low windshield. She heard the glass crack. Immediately the roaring exhausts
died. Amid the whistle of the wind and the murmur of broken water, the launch staggered like
a drunken man, lurched off into the trough, deep down by the head with the weight of water
she had taken.

The man in her stood up with hands cupped over his mouth.

"Can you hang on a while longer?" he shouted. "Till I can get my boat bailed?"

"I'm all right," she called back.

She saw him heave up the engine hatch. For a minute or two he bailed rapidly. Then he spun
the engine, without result. He straightened up at last, stood irresolute a second, peeled off
his coat.

The launch lay heavily in the trough. The canoe, rising and clinging on the crest of each wave,
was carried forward a few feet at a time, taking the run of the sea faster than the disabled
motorboat. So now only a hundred-odd feet separated them, but they could come no nearer, for
the canoe was abeam and slowly drifting past.

Stella saw the man stoop and stand up with a coil of line in his hand. Then she gasped, for
he stepped on the coaming and plunged overboard in a beautiful, arching dive. A second later
his head showed glistening above the gray water, and he swam toward her with a slow, overhand
stroke. It seemed an age--although the actual time was brief enough--before he reached her.
She saw then that there was method in his madness, for the line strung out behind him, fast
to a cleat on the launch. He laid hold of the canoe and rested a few seconds, panting, smiling
broadly at her.

"Sorry that whopping wave put me out of commission," he said at last. "I'd have had you ashore
by now. Hang on for a minute."

He made the line fast to a thwart near the bow. Holding fast with one hand, he drew the swamped
canoe up to the launch. In that continuous roll it was no easy task to get Stella aboard, but
they managed it, and presently she sat shivering in the cockpit, watching the man spill the
water out of the Peterboro till it rode buoyantly again. Then he went to work at his engine
methodically, wiping dry the ignition terminals, all the various connections where moisture
could effect a short circuit. At the end of a few minutes, he turned the starting crank. The
multiple cylinders fired with a roar.

He moved back behind the wrecked windshield where the steering gear stood.

"Well, Miss Ship-wrecked Mariner," said he lightly, "where do you wish to be landed?"

"Over there, if you please." Stella pointed to where the red roof of the bungalow stood out
against the green. "I'm Mrs. Fyfe."

"Ah!" said he. An expression of veiled surprise flashed across his face. "Another potential
romance strangled at birth. You know, I hoped you were some local maiden before whom I could
pose as a heroic rescuer. Such is life. Odd, too. Linda Abbey--I'm the Monohan tail to the
Abbey business kite, you see--impressed me as pilot for a spin this afternoon and backed out
at the last moment. I think she smelled this blow. So I went out for a ride by myself. I was
glowering at that new house through a glass when I spied you out in the thick of it."

He had the clutch in now, and the launch was cleaving the seas, even at half speed throwing
out wide wings of spray. Some of this the wind brought across the cockpit. "Come up into this
seat," Monohan commanded. "I don't suppose you can get any wetter, but if you put your feet
through this bulkhead door, the heat from the engine will warm you. By Jove, you're fairly
shivering."

"It's lucky for me you happened along," Stella remarked, when she was ensconced behind the
bulkhead. "I was getting so cold. I don't know how much longer I could have stood it."

"Thank the good glasses that picked you out. You were only a speck on the water, you know,
when I sighted you first."

He kept silent after that. All his faculties were centered on the seas ahead which rolled up
before the sharp cutwater of the launch. He was making time and still trying to avoid boarding
seas. When a big one lifted ahead, he slowed down. He kept one hand on the throttle control,
whistling under his breath disconnected snatches of song. Stella studied his profile, clean-cut
as a cameo and wholly pleasing. He was almost as big-bodied as Jack Fyfe, and full four inches
taller. The wet shirt clinging close to his body outlined well-knit shoulders, ropy-muscled
arms. He could easily have posed for a Viking, so strikingly blond was he, with fair, curly
hair. She judged that he might be around thirty, yet his face was altogether boyish.

Sitting there beside him, shivering in her wet clothes, she found herself wondering what magnetic
quality there could be about a man that focussed a woman's attention upon him whether she willed
it or no. Why should she feel an oddly-disturbing thrill at the mere physical nearness of this
fair-haired stranger? She did. There was no debating that. And she wondered--wondered if a
bolt of that lightning she had dreaded ever since her marriage was about to strike her now.
She hoped not. All her emotions had lain fallow. If Jack Fyfe had no power to stir her,--and
she told herself Jack had so failed, without asking herself why,--then some other man might
easily accomplish that, to her unutterable grief. She had told herself many a time that no
more terrible plight could overtake her than to love and be loved and sit with hands folded,
foregoing it all. She shrank from so tragic an evolution. It meant only pain, the ache of unfulfilled,
unattainable desires. If, she reflected cynically, this man beside her stood for such a motif
in her life, he might better have left her out in the swamped canoe.

While she sat there, drawn-faced with the cold, thinking rather amazedly these things which
she told herself she had no right to think, the launch slipped into the quiet nook of Cougar
Bay and slowed down to the float.

Monohan helped her out, threw off the canoe's painter, and climbed back into the launch.

"You're as wet as I am," Stella said. "Won't you come up to the house and get a change of clothes?
I haven't even thanked you."

"Nothing to be thanked for," he smiled up at her. "Only please remember not to get offshore
in a canoe again. I mightn't be handy the next time--and Roaring Lake's as fickle as your charming
sex. All smiles one minute, storming the next. No, I won't stay this time, thanks. A little
wet won't hurt me. I wasn't in the water long enough to get chilled, you know. I'll be home
in half an hour. Run along and get dressed, Mrs. Fyfe, and drink something hot to drive that
chill away. Good-by."

Stella went up to the house, her hand tingling with his parting grip. Over and above the peril
she had escaped rose an uneasy vision of a greater peril to her peace of mind. The platitudes
of soul-affinity, of irresistible magnetic attraction, of love that leaped full-blown into
reality at the touch of a hand or the glance of an eye, she had always viewed with distrust,
holding them the weaknesses of weak, volatile natures. But there was something about this man
which had stirred her, nothing that he said or did, merely some elusive, personal attribute.
She had never undergone any such experience, and she puzzled over it now. A chance stranger,
and his touch could make her pulse leap. It filled her with astonished dismay.

Afterward, dry-clad and warm, sitting in her pet chair, Jack Junior cooing at her from a nest
among cushions on the floor, the natural reaction set in, and she laughed at herself. When
Fyfe came home, she told him lightly of her rescue.

He said nothing at first, only sat drumming on his chair-arm, his eyes steady on her.

"That might have cost you your life," he said at last. "Will you remember not to drift offshore
again?"

"I rather think I shall," she responded. "It wasn't a pleasant experience."

"Monohan, eh?" he remarked after another interval. "So he's on Roaring Lake again."

"Do you know him?" she asked.

"Yes," he replied briefly.

For a minute or so longer he sat there, his face wearing its habitual impassiveness. Then he
got up, kissed her with a queer sort of intensity, and went put. Stella gazed after him, mildly
surprised. It wasn't quite in his usual manner.

CHAPTER XV

A RESURRECTION

It might have been a week or so later that Stella made a discovery which profoundly affected
the whole current of her thought. The long twilight was just beginning. She was curled on the
living-room floor, playing with the baby. Fyfe and Charlie Benton sat by a window, smoking,
conversing, as they frequently did, upon certain phases of the timber industry. A draft from
an open window fluttered some sheet music down off the piano rack, and Stella rescued it from
Jack Junior's tiny, clawing hands. Some of the Abbeys had been there the evening before. One
bit of music was a song Linda had tried to sing and given up because it soared above her vocal
range. Stella rose to put up the music. Without any premeditated idea of playing, she sat down
at the piano and began to run over the accompaniment. She could play passably.

"That doesn't seem so very hard," she thought aloud. Benton turned at sound of her words.

"Say, did you never get any part of your voice back, Stell?" he asked. "I never hear you try
to sing."

"No," she answered. "I tried and tried long after you left home, but it was always the same
old story. I haven't sung a note in five years."

"Linda fell down hard on that song last night," he went on. "There was a time when that wouldn't
have been a starter for you, eh? Did you know Stella used to warble like a prima donna, Jack?"

Fyfe shook his head.

"Fact. The governor spent a pot of money cultivating her voice. It was some voice, too. She--"

He broke off to listen. Stella was humming the words of the song, her fingers picking at the
melody instead of the accompaniment.

"Why, you can," Benton cried.

"Can what?" She turned on the stool.

"Sing, of course. You got that high trill that Linda had to screech through. You got it perfectly,
without effort."

"I didn't," she returned. "Why, I wasn't singing, just humming it over."

"You let out a link or two on those high notes just the same, whether you knew you were doing
it or not," her brother returned impatiently. "Go on. Turn yourself loose. Sing that song."

"Oh, I couldn't," Stella said ruefully. "I haven't tried for so long. It's no use. My voice
always cracks, and I want to cry."

"Crack fiddlesticks!" Benton retorted. "I know what it used to be. Believe me, it sounded natural,
even if you were just lilting. Here."

He came over to the piano and playfully edged her off the stool.

"I'm pretty rusty," he said. "But I can fake what I can't play of this. It's simple enough.
You stand up there and sing."

She only stood looking at him.

"Go on," he commanded. "I believe you can sing anything. You have to show me, if you can't."

Stella fingered the sheets reluctantly. Then she drew a deep breath and began.

It was not a difficult selection, merely a bit from a current light opera, with a closing passage
that ranged a trifle too high for the ordinary untrained voice to take with ease. Stella sang
it effortlessly, the last high, trilling notes pouring out as sweet and clear as the carol
of a lark. Benton struck the closing chord and looked up at her. Fyfe leaned forward in his
chair. Jack Junior, among his pillows on the floor, waved his arms, kicking and gurgling.

"You did pretty well on that," Charlie remarked complacently. "Now sing something. Got any
of your old pieces?"

"I wonder if I could?" Stella murmured. "I'm almost afraid to try."

She hurried away to some outlying part of the house, reappearing in a few minutes with a dog-eared
bundle of sheets in her hand. From among these she selected three and set them on the rack.

Benton whistled when he glanced over the music.

"The Siren Song," he grunted. "What is it? something new? Lord, look at the scale. Looks like
one of those screaming arias from the 'Flying Dutchman.' Some stunt."

"Marchand composed it for the express purpose of trying out voices," Stella said. "It is a stunt."

"You'll have to play your own accompaniment," Charlie grinned. "That's too much for me."

"Oh, just so you give me a little support here and there," Stella told him. "I can't sing sitting
on a piano stool."

Benton made a face at the music and struck the keys.

It seemed to Stella nothing short of a miracle. She had been mute so long. She had almost forgotten
what a tragedy losing her voice had been. And to find it again, to hear it ring like a trumpet.
It did! It was too big for the room. She felt herself caught up in a triumphant ecstasy as
she sang. She found herself blinking as the last note died away. Her brother twisted about
on the piano stool, fumbling for a cigarette.

"And still they say they can't come back," he remarked at last. "Why, you're better than you
ever were, Stella. You've got the old sweetness and flexibility that dad used to rave about.
But your voice is bigger, somehow different. It gets under a man's skin."

She picked up the baby from the floor, began to play with him. She didn't want to talk. She
wanted to think, to gloat over and hug to herself this miracle of her restored voice. She was
very quiet, very much absorbed in her own reflections until it was time--very shortly--to put
Jack Junior in his bed. That was a function she made wholly her own. The nurse might greet
his waking whimper in the morning and minister to his wants throughout the day, but Stella
"tucked him in" his crib every night. And after the blue eyes were closed, she sat there, very
still, thinking. In a detached way she was conscious of hearing Charlie leave.

Later, when she was sitting beside her dressing table brushing her hair, Fyfe came in. He perched
himself on the foot rail of the bed, looking silently at her. She had long grown used to that.
It was a familiar trick of his.

"How did it happen that you've never tried your voice lately?" he asked after a time.

"I gave it up long ago," she said. "Didn't I ever tell you that I used to sing and lost my voice?"

"No," he answered. "Charlie did just now. You rather took my breath away. It's wonderful. You'd
be a sensation in opera."

"I might have been," she corrected. "That was one of my little dreams. You don't know what
a grief it was to me when I got over that throat trouble and found I couldn't sing. I used
to try and try--and my voice would break every time. I lost all heart to try after a while.
That was when I wanted to take up nursing, and they wouldn't let me. I haven't thought about
singing for an age. I've crooned lullabies to Jacky without remembering that I once had volume
enough to drown out an accompanist. Dad was awfully proud of my voice."

"You've reason to be proud of it now," Fyfe said slowly. "It's a voice in ten thousand. What
are going to do with it?"

Stella drew the brush mechanically through her heavy hair. She had been asking herself that.
What could she do? A long road and a hard one lay ahead of her or any other woman who essayed
to make her voice the basis of a career. Over and above that she was not free to seek such
a career. Fyfe himself knew that, and it irritated her that he should ask such a question.
She swung about on him.

"Nothing," she said a trifle tartly. "How can I? Granting that my voice is worth the trouble,
would you like me to go and study in the East or abroad? Would you be willing to bear the expense
of such an undertaking? To have me leave Jack to nursemaids and you to your logs?"

"So that in the fullness of time I might secure a little reflected glory as the husband of
Madame Fyfe, the famous soprano," he replied slowly. "Well, I can't say that's a particularly
pleasing prospect."

"Then why ask me what I'm going to do with it?" she flung back impatiently. "It'll be an asset--like
my looks--and--and--"

She dropped her face in her hands, choking back an involuntary sob. Fyfe crossed the room at
a bound, put his arms around her.

"Stella, Stella!" he cried sharply. "Don't be a fool."

"D--don't be cross, Jack," she whispered. "Please. I'm sorry. I simply can't help it. You don't
understand."

"Oh, don't I?" he said savagely. "I understand too well; that's the devil of it. But I suppose
that's a woman's way,--to feed her soul with illusions, and let the realities go hang. Look here."

He caught her by the shoulders and pulled her to her feet, facing him. There was a fire in
his eye, a hard shutting together of his lips that frightened her a little.

"Look here," he said roughly. "Take a brace, Stella. Do you realize what sort of a state of
mind you're drifting into? You married me under more or less compulsion,--compulsion of circumstances,--and
gradually you're beginning to get dissatisfied, to pity yourself. You'll precipitate things
you maybe don't dream of now, if you keep on. Damn it, I didn't create the circumstances. I
only showed you a way out. You took it. It satisfied you for a while; you can't deny it did.
But it doesn't any more. You're nursing a lot of illusions, Stella, that are going to make
your life full of misery."

"I'm not," she sobbed. "It's because I haven't any illusions that--that--Oh, what's the use
of talking, Jack? I'm not complaining. I don't even know what gave me this black mood, just
now. I suppose that queer miracle of my voice coming back upset me. I feel--well, as if I were
a different person, somehow; as if I had forfeited any right to have it. Oh, it's silly, you'll
say. But it's there. I can't help my feeling--or my lack of it."

Fyfe's face whitened a little. His hands dropped from her shoulders.

"Now you're talking to the point," he said quietly. "Especially that last. We've been married
some little time now, and if anything, we're farther apart in the essentials of mating than
we were at the beginning. You've committed yourself to an undertaking, yet more and more you
encourage yourself to wish for the moon. If you don't stop dreaming and try real living, don't
you see a lot of trouble ahead for yourself? It's simple. You're slowly hardening yourself
against me, beginning to resent my being a factor in your life. It's only a matter of time,
if you keep on, until your emotions center about some other man."

"Why do you talk like that?" she said bitterly. "Do you think I've got neither pride nor self-respect?"

"Yes. Both a-plenty," he answered. "But you're a woman, with a rather complex nature even for
your sex. If your heart and your head ever clash over anything like that, you'll be in perfect
hell until one or the other gets the upper hand. You're a thoroughbred, and high-strung as
thoroughbreds are. It takes something besides three meals a day and plenty of good clothes
to complete your existence. If I can't make it complete, some other man will make you think
he can. Why don't you try? Haven't I got any possibilities as a lover? Can't you throw a little
halo of romance about me, for your own sake--if not for mine?"

He drew her up close to him, stroking tenderly the glossy brown hair that flowed about her
shoulders.

"Try it, Stella," he whispered passionately. "Try wanting to like me, for a change. I can't
make love by myself. Shake off that infernal apathy that's taking possession of you where I'm
concerned. If you can't love me, for God's sake fight with me. Do something!"

CHAPTER XVI

THE CRISIS

Looking back at that evening as the summer wore on, Stella perceived that it was the starting
point of many things, no one of them definitely outstanding by itself but bulking large as
a whole. Fyfe made his appeal, and it left her unmoved save in certain superficial aspects.
She was sorry, but she was mostly sorry for herself. And she denied his premonition of disaster.
If, she said to herself, they got no raptures out of life, at least they got along without
friction. In her mind their marriage, no matter that it lacked what she no less than Fyfe deemed
an essential to happiness, was a fixed state, final, irrevocable, not to be altered by any
emotional vagaries.

No man, she told herself, could make her forget her duty. If it should befall that her heart,
lacking safe anchorage, went astray, that would be her personal cross--not Jack Fyfe's. He
should never know. One might feel deeply without being moved to act upon one's feelings. So
she assured herself.

She never dreamed that Jack Fyfe could possibly have foreseen in Walter Monohan a dangerous
factor in their lives. A man is not supposed to have uncanny intuitions, even when his wife
is a wonderfully attractive woman who does not care for him except in a friendly sort of way.
Stella herself had ample warning. From the first time of meeting, the man's presence affected
her strangely, made an appeal to her that no man had ever made. She felt it sitting beside
him in the plunging launch that day when Roaring Lake reached its watery arms for her. There
was seldom a time when they were together that she did not feel it. And she pitted her will
against it, as something to be conquered and crushed.

There was no denying the man's personal charm in the ordinary sense of the word. He was virile,
handsome, cultured, just such a man as she could easily have centered her heart upon in times
past,--just such a man as can set a woman's heart thrilling when he lays siege to her. If he
had made an open bid for Stella's affection, she, entrenched behind all the accepted canons
of her upbringing, would have recoiled from him, viewed him with wholly distrustful eyes.

But he did nothing of the sort. He was a friend, or at least he became so. Inevitably they
were thrown much together. There was a continual informal running back and forth between Fyfe's
place and Abbey's. Monohan was a lily of the field, although it was common knowledge on Roaring
Lake that he was a heavy stock-holder in the Abbey-Monohan combination. At any rate, he was
holidaying on the lake that summer. There had grown up a genuine intimacy between Linda and
Stella. There were always people at the Abbeys'; sometimes a few guests at the Fyfe bungalow.
Stella's marvellous voice served to heighten her popularity. The net result of it all was that
in the following three months source three days went by that she did not converse with Monohan.

She could not help making comparisons between the two men. They stood out in marked contrast,
in manner, physique, in everything. Where Fyfe was reserved almost to taciturnity, impassive-featured,
save for that whimsical gleam that was never wholly absent from his keen blue eyes, Monohan
talked with facile ease, with wonderful expressiveness of face. He was a finished product of
courteous generations. Moreover, he had been everywhere, done a little of everything, acquired
in his manner something of the versatility of his experience. Physically he was fit as any
logger in the camps, a big, active-bodied, clear-eyed, ruddy man.

What it was about him that stirred her so, Stella could never determine. She knew beyond peradventure
that he had that power. He had the gift of quick, sympathetic perception,--but so too had Jack
Fyfe, she reminded herself. Yet no tone of Jack Fyfe's voice could raise a flutter in her breast,
make a faint flush glow in her cheeks, while Monohan could do that. He did not need to be actively
attentive. It was only necessary for him to be near.

It dawned upon Stella Fyfe in the fullness of the season, when the first cool October days
were upon them, and the lake shores flamed again with the red and yellow and umber of autumn,
that she had been playing with fire--and that fire burns.

This did not filter into her consciousness by degrees. She had steeled herself to seeing him
pass away with the rest of the summer folk, to take himself out of her life. She admitted that
there would be a gap. But that had to be. No word other than friendly ones would ever pass
between them. He would go away, and she would go on as before. That was all. She was scarcely
aware how far they had traveled along that road whereon travelers converse by glance of eye,
by subtle intuitions, eloquent silences. Monohan himself delivered the shock that awakened
her to despairing clearness of vision.

He had come to bring her a book, he and Linda Abbey and Charlie together,--a commonplace enough
little courtesy. And it happened that this day Fyfe had taken his rifle and vanished into the
woods immediately after luncheon. Between Linda Abbey and Charlie Benton matters had so far
progressed that it was now the most natural thing for them to seek a corner or poke along the
beach together, oblivious to all but themselves. This afternoon they chatted a while with Stella
and then gradually detached themselves until Monohan, glancing through the window, pointed
them out to his hostess. They were seated on a log at the edge of the lawn, a stone's throw
from the house.

"They're getting on," he said. "Lucky beggars. It's all plain sailing for them."

There was a note of infinite regret in his voice, a sadness that stabbed Stella Fyfe like a
lance. She did not dare look at him. Something rose chokingly in her throat. She felt and fought
against a slow welling of tears to her eyes. Before she sensed that she was betraying herself,
Monohan was holding both her hands fast between his own, gripping them with a fierce, insistent
pressure, speaking in a passionate undertone.

"Why should we have to beat our heads against a stone wall like this?" he was saying wildly.
"Why couldn't we have met and loved and been happy, as we could have been? It was fated to
happen. I felt it that day I dragged you out of the lake. It's been growing on me ever since.
I've struggled against it, and it's no use. It's something stronger than I am. I love you,
Stella, and it maddens me to see you chafing in your chains. Oh, my dear, why couldn't it have
been different?"

"You mustn't talk like that," she protested weakly. "You mustn't. It isn't right."

"I suppose it's right for you to live with a man you don't love, when your heart's crying out
against it?" he broke out. "My God, do you think I can't see? I don't have to see things; I
can feel them. I know you're the kind of woman who goes through hell for her conceptions of
right and wrong. I honor you for that, dear. But, oh, the pity of it. Why should it have to
be? Life could have held so much that is fine and true for you and me together. For you do
care, don't you?"

"What difference does that make?" she whispered. "What difference can it make? Oh, you mustn't
tell me these things, I mustn't listen. I mustn't."

"But they're terribly, tragically true," Monohan returned. "Look at me, Stella. Don't turn
your face away, dear. I wouldn't do anything that might bring the least shadow on you. I know
the pitiful hopelessness of it. You're fettered, and there's no apparent loophole to freedom.
I know it's best for me to keep this locked tight in my heart, as something precious and sorrowful.
I never meant to tell you. But the flesh isn't always equal to the task the spirit imposes."

She did not answer him immediately, for she was struggling for a grip on herself, fighting
back an impulse to lay her head against him and cry her agony out on his breast. All the resources
of will that she possessed she called upon now to still that tumult of emotion that racked
her. When she did speak, it was in a hard, strained tone. But she faced the issue squarely,
knowing beyond all doubt what she had to face.

"Whether I care or not isn't the question," she said. "I'm neither little enough nor prudish
enough to deny a feeling that's big and clean. I see no shame in that. I'm afraid of it--if
you can understand that. But that's neither here nor there. I know what I have to do. I married
without love, with my eyes wide open, and I have to pay the price. So you must never talk to
me of love. You mustn't even see me, if it can be avoided. It's better that way. We can't make
over our lives to suit ourselves--at least I can't. I must play the game according to the only
rules I know. We daren't--we mustn't trifle with this sort of a feeling. With you--footloose,
and all the world before you--it'll die out presently."

"No," he flared. "I deny that. I'm not an impressionable boy. I know myself."

He paused, and the grip of his hands on hers tightened till the pain of it ran to her elbows.
Then his fingers relaxed a little.

"Oh, I know," he said haltingly. "I know it's got to be that way. I have to go my road and
leave you to yours. Oh, the blank hopelessness of it, the useless misery of it. We're made
for each other, and we have to grin and say good-by, go along our separate ways, trying to
smile. What a devilish state of affairs! But I love you, dear, and no matter--I--ah--"

His voice flattened out. His hands released hers, he straightened quickly. Stella turned her
head. Jack Fyfe stood in the doorway. His face was fixed in its habitual mask. He was biting
the end off a cigar. He struck a match and put it to the cigar end with steady fingers as he
walked slowly across the big room.

"I hear the kid peeping," he said to Stella quite casually, "and I noticed Martha outside as
I came in. Better go see what's up with him."

Trained to repression, schooled in self-control, Stella rose to obey, for under the smoothness
of his tone there was the iron edge of command. Her heart apparently ceased to beat. She tried
to smile, but she knew that her face was tear-wet. She knew that Jack Fyfe had seen and understood.
She had done no wrong, but a terrible apprehension of consequences seized her, a fear that
tragedy of her own making might stalk grimly in that room.

In this extremity she banked with implicit faith on the man she had married rather than the
man she loved. For the moment she felt overwhelmingly glad that Jack Fyfe was iron--cool, unshakable.
He would never give an inch, but he would never descend to any sordid scene. She could not
visualize him the jealous, outraged husband, breathing the conventional anathema, but there
were elements unreckonable in that room. She knew instinctively that Fyfe once aroused would
be deadly in anger and she could not vouch for Monohan's temper under the strain of feeling.
That was why she feared.

So she lingered a second or two outside the door, quaking, but there arose only the sound of
Fyfe's heavy body settling into a leather chair, and following that the low, even rumble of
his voice. She could not distinguish words. The tone sounded ordinary, conversational. She
prayed that his intent was to ignore the situation, that Monohan would meet him halfway in
that effort. Afterward there would be a reckoning. But for herself she neither thought nor
feared. It was a problem to be faced, that was all. And so, the breath of her coming in short,
quick respirations, she went to her room. There was no wailing from the nursery. She had known
that.

Sitting beside a window, chin in hand, her lower lip compressed between her teeth, she saw
Fyfe, after the lapse of ten minutes, leave by the front entrance, stopping to chat a minute
with Linda and Charlie Benton, who were moving slowly toward the house. Stella rose to her
feet and dabbed at her face with a powdered chamois. She couldn't let Monohan go like that;
her heart cried out against it. Very likely they would never meet again.

She flew down the hall to the living room. Monohan stood just within the front door, gazing
irresolutely over his shoulder. He took a step or two to meet her. His clean-cut face was drawn
into sullen lines, a deep flush mantled his cheek.

"Listen," he said tensely. "I've been made to feel like--like--Well, I controlled myself. I
knew it had to be that way. It was unfortunate. I think we could have been trusted to do the
decent thing. You and I were bred to do that. I've got a little pride. I can't come here again.
And I want to see you once more before I leave here for good. I'll be going away next week.
That'll be the end of it--the bitter finish. Will you slip down to the first point south of
Cougar Bay about three in the afternoon to-morrow? It'll be the last and only time. He'll have
you for life; can't I talk to you for twenty minutes?"

"No," she whispered forlornly. "I can't do that. I--oh, good-by--good-by."

"Stella, Stella," she heard his vibrant whisper follow after. But she ran away through dining
room and hall to the bedroom, there to fling herself face down, choking back the passionate
protest that welled up within her. She lay there, her face buried in the pillow, until the
sputtering exhaust of the Abbey cruiser growing fainter and more faint told her they were gone.

She heard her husband walk through the house once after that. When dinner was served, he was
not there. It was eleven o'clock by the time-piece on her mantel when she heard him come in,
but he did not come to their room. He went quietly into the guest chamber across the hall.

She waited through a leaden period. Then, moved by an impulse she did not attempt to define,
a mixture of motives, pity for him, a craving for the outlet of words, a desire to set herself
right before him, she slipped on a dressing robe and crossed the hall. The door swung open
noiselessly. Fyfe sat slumped in a chair, hat pulled low on his forehead, hands thrust deep
in his pockets. He did not even look up. His eyes stared straight ahead, absent, unseeingly
fixed on nothing. He seemed to be unconscious of her presence or to ignore it,--she could not
tell which.

"Jack," she said. And when he made no response she said again, tremulously, that unyielding
silence chilling her, "Jack."

He stirred a little, but only to take off his hat and lay it on a table beside him. With one
hand pushing back mechanically the straight, reddish-tinged hair from his brow, he looked up
at her and said briefly, in a tone barren of all emotion:

"Well?"

She was suddenly dumb. Words failed her utterly. Yet there was much to be said, much that was
needful to say. They could not go on with a cloud like that over them, a cloud that had to
be dissipated in the crucible of words. Yet she could not begin. Fyfe, after a prolonged silence,
seemed to grasp her difficulty. Abruptly he began to speak, cutting straight to the heart of
his subject, after his fashion.

"It's a pity things had to take his particular turn," said he. "But now that you're face to
face with something definite, what do you propose to do about it?"

"Nothing," she answered slowly. "I can't help the feeling. It's there. But I can thrust it
into the background, go on as if it didn't exist. There's nothing else for me to do, that I
can see. I'm sorry, Jack."

"So am I," he said grimly. "Still, it was a chance we took,--or I took, rather. I seem to have
made a mistake or two, in my estimate of both you and myself. That is human enough, I suppose.
You're making a bigger mistake than I did though, to let Monohan sweep you off your feet."

There was something that she read for contempt in his tone. It stung her.

"He hasn't swept me off my feet, as you put it," she cried. "Good Heavens, do you think I'm
that spineless sort of creature? I've never forgotten I'm your wife. I've got a little self-respect
left yet, if I was weak enough to grasp at the straw you threw me in the beginning. I was honest
with you then. I'm trying to be honest with you now."

"I know, Stella," he said gently. "I'm not throwing mud. It's a damnably unfortunate state
of affairs, that's all. I foresaw something of the sort when we were married. You were candid
enough about your attitude. But I told myself like a conceited fool that I could make your
life so full that in a little while I'd be the only possible figure on your horizon. I've failed.
I've known for some time that I was going to fail. You're not the thin-blooded type of woman
that is satisfied with pleasant surroundings and any sort of man. You're bound to run the gamut
of all the emotions, sometime and somewhere. I loved you, and I thought in my conceit I could
make myself the man, the one man who would mean everything to you."

"Just the same," he continued, "you've been a fool, and I don't see how you can avoid paying
the penalty for folly."

"What do you mean?" she asked.

"You haven't tried to play the game," he answered tensely. "For months you've been withdrawing
into your shell. You've been clanking your chains and half-heartedly wishing for some mysterious
power to strike them off. It wasn't a thing you undertook lightly. It isn't a thing--marriage,
I mean--that you hold lightly. That being the case, you would have been wise to try making
the best of it, instead of making the worst of it. But you let yourself drift into a state
of mind where you--well, you see the result. I saw it coming. I didn't need to happen in this
afternoon to know that there were undercurrents of feeling swirling about. And so the way you
feel now is in itself a penalty. If you let Monohan cut any more figure in your thoughts, you'll
pay bigger in the end."

"I can't help my thoughts, or I should say my feelings," she said wearily.

"You think you love him," Fyfe made low reply. "As a matter of fact, you love what you think
he is. I daresay that he has sworn his affection by all that's good and great. But if you were
convinced that he didn't really care, that his flowery protestations had a double end in view,
would you still love him?"

"I don't know," she murmured. "But that's beside the point. I do love him. I know it's unwise.
It's a feeling that has overwhelmed me in a way that I didn't believe possible, that I had
hoped to avoid. But--but I can't pretend, Jack. I don't want you to misunderstand. I don't
want this to make us both miserable. I don't want it to generate an atmosphere of suspicion
and jealousy. We'd only be fighting about a shadow. I never cheated at anything in my life.
You can trust me still, can't you?"

"Absolutely," Fyfe answered without hesitation.

"Then that's all there is to it," she replied, "unless--unless you're ready to give me up as
a hopeless case, and let me go away and blunder along the best I can."

He shook his head.

"I haven't even considered that," he said. "Very likely it's unwise of me to say this,--it
will probably antagonize you,--but I know Monohan better than you do. I'd go pretty far to
keep you two apart--now--for your sake."

"It would be the same if it were any other man," she muttered. "I can understand that feeling
in you. It's so--so typically masculine."

"No, you're wrong there, dead wrong," Fyfe frowned. "I'm not a self-sacrificing brute by any
means. Still, knowing that you'll only live with me on sufferance, if you were honestly in
love with a man that I felt was halfway decent, I'd put my feelings in my pocket and let you
go. If you cared enough for him to break every tie, to face the embarrassment of divorce, why,
I'd figure you were entitled to your freedom and whatever happiness it might bring. But Monohan--hell,
I don't want to talk about him. I trust you, Stella. I'm banking on your own good sense. And
along with that good, natural common sense, you've got so many illusions. About life in general,
and about men. They seem to have centered about this one particular man. I can't open your
eyes or put you on the right track. That's a job for yourself. All I can do is to sit back
and wait."

His voice trailed off huskily.

Stella put a hand on his shoulder.

"Do you care so much as all that, Jack?" she whispered. "Even in spite of what you know?"

"For two years now," he answered, "you've been the biggest thing in my life. I don't change
easy; I don't want to change. But I'm getting hopeless."

"I'm sorry, Jack," she said. "I can't begin to tell you how sorry I am. I didn't love you to
begin with--"

"And you've always resented that," he broke in. "You've hugged that ghost of a loveless marriage
to your bosom and sighed for the real romance you'd missed. Well, maybe you did. But you haven't
found it yet. I'm very sure of that, although I doubt if I could convince you."

"Let me finish," she pleaded. "You knew I didn't love you--that I was worn out and desperate
and clutching at the life line you threw. In spite of that,--well, if I fight down this love,
or fascination, or infatuation, or whatever it is,--I'm not sure myself, except that it affects
me strongly,--can't we be friends again?"

"Friends! Oh, hell!" Fyfe exploded.

He came up out of his chair with a blaze in his eyes that startled her, caught her by the arm,
and thrust her out the door.

"Friends? You and I?" He sank his voice to a harsh whisper. "My God--friends! Go to bed. Good
night."

He pushed her into the hall, and the lock clicked between them. For one confused instant Stella
stood poised, uncertain. Then she went into her bedroom and sat down, her keenest sensation
one of sheer relief. Already in those brief hours emotion had well-nigh exhausted her. To be
alone, to lie still and rest, to banish thought,--that was all she desired.

She lay on her bed inert, numbed, all but her mind, and that traversed section by section in
swift, consecutive progress all the amazing turns of her life since she first came to Roaring
Lake. There was neither method nor inquiry in this back-casting--merely a ceaseless, involuntary
activity of the brain.

A little after midnight when all the house was hushed, she went into the adjoining room, cuddled
Jack Junior into her arms, and took him to her own bed. With his chubby face nestled against
her breast, she lay there fighting against that interminable, maddening buzzing in her brain.
She prayed for sleep, her nervous fingers stroking the silky, baby hair.

CHAPTER XVII

IN WHICH THERE IS A FURTHER CLASH

One can only suffer so much. Poignant feeling brings its own anaesthetic. When Stella Fyfe
fell into a troubled sleep that night, the storm of her emotions had beaten her sorely. Morning
brought its physical reaction. She could see things clearly and calmly enough to perceive that
her love for Monohan was fraught with factors that must be taken into account. All the world
loves a lover, but her world did not love lovers who kicked over the conventional traces. She
had made a niche for herself. There were ties she could not break lightly, and she was not
thinking of herself alone when she considered that, but of her husband and Jack Junior, of
Linda Abbey and Charlie Benton, of each and every individual whose life touched more or less
directly upon her own.

She had known always what a woman should do in such case, what she had been taught a woman
should do: grin, as Monohan had said, and take her medicine. For her there was no alternative.
Fyfe had made that clear. But her heart cried out in rebellion against the necessity. To her,
trying to think logically, the most grievous phase of the doing was the fact that nothing could
ever be the same again. She could go on. Oh, yes. She could dam up the wellspring of her impulses,
walk steadfast along the accustomed ways. But those ways would not be the old ones. There would
always be the skeleton at the feast. She would know it was there, and Jack Fyfe would know,
and she dreaded the fruits of that knowledge, the bitterness and smothered resentment it would
breed. But it had to be. As she saw it, there was no choice.

She came down to breakfast calmly enough. It was nothing that could be altered by heroics,
by tears and wailings. Not that she was much given to either. She had not whined when her brother
made things so hard for her that any refuge seemed alluring by comparison. Curiously enough,
she did not blame her brother now; neither did she blame Jack Fyfe.

She told herself that in first seeking the line of least resistance she had manifested weakness,
that since her present problem was indirectly the outgrowth of that original weakness, she
would be weak no more. So she tried to meet her husband as if nothing had happened, in which
she succeeded outwardly very well indeed, since Fyfe himself chose to ignore any change in
their mutual attitude.

She busied herself about the house that forenoon, seeking deliberately a multitude of little
tasks to occupy her hands and her mind.

But when lunch was over, she was at the end of her resources. Jack Junior settled in his crib
for a nap. Fyfe went away to that area back of the camp where arose the crash of falling trees
and the labored puffing of donkey engines. She could hear faint and far the voices of the falling
gangs that cried: "Tim-ber-r-r-r." She could see on the bank, a little beyond the bunkhouse
and cook-shack, the big roader spooling up the cable that brought string after string of logs
down to the lake. Rain or sun, happiness or sorrow, the work went on. She found it in her heart
to envy the sturdy loggers. They could forget their troubles in the strain of action. Keyed
as she was to that high pitch, that sense of their unremitting activity, the ravaging of the
forest which produced the resources for which she had sold herself irritated her. She was very
bitter when she thought that.

She longed for some secluded place to sit and think, or try to stop thinking. And without fully
realizing the direction she took, she walked down past the camp, crossed the skid-road, stepping
lightly over main line and haul-back at the donkey engineer's warning, and went along the lake
shore.

A path wound through the belt of brush and hardwood that fringed the lake. Not until she had
followed this up on the neck of a little promontory south of the bay, did she remember with
a shock that she was approaching the place where Monohan had begged her to meet him. She looked
at her watch. Two-thirty. She sought the shore line for sight of a boat, wondering if he would
come in spite of her refusal. But to her great relief she saw no sign of him. Probably he had
thought better of it, had seen now as she had seen then that no good and an earnest chance
of evil might come of such a clandestine meeting, had taken her stand as final.

She was glad, because she did not want to go back to the house. She did not want to make the
effort of wandering away in the other direction to find that restful peace of woods and water.
She moved up a little on the point until she found a mossy boulder and sat down on that, resting
her chin in her palms, looking out over the placid surface of the lake with somber eyes.

And so Monohan surprised her. The knoll lay thick-carpeted with moss. He was within a few steps
of her when a twig cracking underfoot apprised her of some one's approach. She rose, with an
impulse to fly, to escape a meeting she had not desired. And as she rose, the breath stopped
in her throat.

Twenty feet behind Monohan came Jack Fyfe with his hunter's stride, soundlessly over the moss,
a rifle drooping in the crook of his arm. A sunbeam striking obliquely between two firs showed
her his face plainly, the faint curl of his upper lip.

Something in her look arrested Monohan. He glanced around, twisted about, froze in his tracks,
his back to her. Fyfe came up. Of the three he was the coolest, the most rigorously self-possessed.
He glanced from Monohan to his wife, back to Monohan. After that his blue eyes never left the
other man's face.

"What did I say to you yesterday?" Fyfe opened his mouth at last. "But then I might have known
I was wasting my breath on you!"

"Well," Monohan retorted insolently, "what are you going to do about it? This isn't the Stone Age."

Fyfe laughed unpleasantly.

"Lucky for you. You'd have been eliminated long ago," he said. "No, it takes the present age
to produce such rotten specimens as you."

A deep flush rose in Monohan's cheeks. He took a step toward Fyfe, his hands clenched.

"You wouldn't say that if you weren't armed," he taunted hoarsely.

"No?" Fyfe cast the rifle to one side. It fell with a metallic clink against a stone. "I do
say it though, you see. You are a sort of a yellow dog, Monohan. You know it, and you know
that I know it. That's why it stings you to be told so."

Monohan stepped back and slipped out of his coat. His face was crimson.

"By God, I'll teach you something," he snarled.

He lunged forward as he spoke, shooting a straight-arm blow for Fyfe's face. It swept through
empty air, for Fyfe, poised on the balls of his feet, ducked under the driving fist, and slapped
Monohan across the mouth with the open palm of his hand.

"Tag," he said sardonically. "You're It."

Monohan pivoted, and rushing, swung right and left, missing by inches. Fyfe's mocking grin
seemed to madden him completely. He rushed again, launching another vicious blow that threw
him partly off his balance. Before he could recover, Fyfe kicked both feet from under him,
sent him sprawling on the moss.

Stella stood like one stricken. The very thing she dreaded had come about. Yet the manner of
its unfolding was not as she had visualized it when she saw Fyfe near at hand. She saw now
a side of her husband that she had never glimpsed, that she found hard to understand. She could
have understood him beating Monohan senseless, if he could. A murderous fury of jealousy would
not have surprised her. This did. He had not struck a blow, did not attempt to strike.

She could not guess why, but she saw that he was playing with Monohan, making a fool of him,
for all Monohan's advantage of height and reach. Fyfe moved like the light, always beyond Monohan's
vengeful blows, slipping under those driving fists to slap his adversary, to trip him, mocking
him with the futility of his effort.

She felt herself powerless to stop that sorry exhibition. It was not a fight for her. Dimly
she had a feeling that back of her lay something else. An echo of it had been more than once
in Fyfe's speech. Here and now, they had forgotten her at the first word. They were engaged
in a struggle for mastery, sheer brute determination to hurt each other, which had little or
nothing to do with her. She foresaw, watching the odd combat with a feeling akin to fascination,
that it was a losing game for Monohan. Fyfe was his master at every move.

Yet he did not once attempt to strike a solid blow, nothing but that humiliating, open-handed
slap, that dexterous swing of his foot that plunged Monohan headlong. He grinned steadily,
a cold grimace that reflected no mirth, being merely a sneering twist of his features. Stella
knew the deadly strength of him. She wondered at his purpose, how it would end.

The elusive light-footedness of the man, the successive stinging of those contemptuous slaps
at last maddened Monohan into ignoring the rules by which men fight. He dropped his hands and
stood panting with his exertions. Suddenly he kicked, a swift lunge for Fyfe's body.

Fyfe leaped aside. Then he closed. Powerful and weighty a man as Monohan was, Fyfe drove him
halfway around with a short-arm blow that landed near his heart, and while he staggered from
that, clamped one thick arm about his neck in the strangle-hold. Holding him helpless, bent
backwards across his broad chest, Fyfe slowly and systematically choked him; he shut off his
breath until Monohan's tongue protruded, and his eyes bulged glassily, and horrible, gurgling
noises issued from his gaping mouth.

"Jack, Jack!" Stella found voice to shriek. "You're killing him."

Fyfe lifted his eyes to hers. The horror he saw there may have stirred him. Or he may have
considered his object accomplished. Stella could not tell. But he flung Monohan from him with
a force that sent him reeling a dozen feet, to collapse on the moss. It took him a full minute
to regain his breath, to rise to unsteady feet, to find his voice.

"You can't win all the time," he gasped. "By God, I'll show you that you can't."

With that he turned and went back the way he had come. Fyfe stood silent, hands resting on
his hips, watching until Monohan pushed out a slim speed launch from under cover of overhanging
alders and set off down the lake.

"Well," he remarked then, in a curiously detached, impersonal tone. "The lightning will begin
to play by and by, I suppose."

"What do you mean?" Stella asked breathlessly.

He did not answer. His eyes turned to her slowly. She saw now that his face was white and rigid,
that the line of his lips drew harder together as he looked at her; but she was not prepared
for the storm that broke. She did not comprehend the tempest that raged within him until he
had her by the shoulders, his fingers crushing into her soft flesh like the jaws of a trap,
shaking her as a terrier might shake a rat, till the heavy coils of hair cascaded over her
shoulders, and for a second fear tugged at her heart. For she thought he meant to kill her.

When he did desist, he released her with a thrust of his arms that sent her staggering against
a tree, shaken to the roots of her being, though not with fear. Anger had displaced that. A
hot protest against his brute strength, against his passionate outbreak, stirred her. Appearances
were against her, she knew. Even so, she revolted against his cave-man roughness. She was amazed
to find herself longing for the power to strike him.

She faced him trembling, leaning against the tree trunk, staring at him in impotent rage. And
the fire died out of his eyes as she looked. He drew a deep breath or two and turned away to
pick up his rifle. When he faced about with that in his hand, the old mask of immobility was
in place. He waited while Stella gathered up her scattered hairpins and made shift to coil
her hair into a semblance of Order. Then he said gently:

"I won't break out like that again."

"Once is enough."

"More than enough--for me," he answered.

She disdained reply. Striking off along the path that ran to the camp, she walked rapidly,
choking a rising flood of desperate thought. With growing coolness paradoxically there burned
hotter the flame of an elemental wrath. What right had he to lay hands on her? Her shoulders
ached, her flesh was bruised from the terrible grip of his fingers. The very sound of his footsteps
behind her was maddening. To be suspected and watched, to be continually the target of jealous
fury! No, a thousand times, no. She wheeled on him at last.

"I can't stand this," she cried. "It's beyond endurance. We're like flint and steel to each
other now. If to-day's a sample of what we may expect, it's better to make a clean sweep of
everything. I've got to get away from here and from you--from everybody."

Fyfe motioned her to a near-by log.

"Sit down," said he. "We may as well have it out here."

For a few seconds he busied himself with a cigar, removing the band with utmost deliberation,
biting the end off, applying the match, his brows puckered slightly.

"It's very unwise of you to meet Monohan like that," he uttered finally.

"Oh, I see," she flashed. "Do you suggest that I met him purposely--by appointment? Even if
I did--"

"That's for you to say, Stella," he interrupted gravely. "I told you last night that I trusted
you absolutely. I do, so far as really vital things are concerned, but I don't always trust
your judgment. I merely know that Monohan sneaked along shore, hid his boat, and stole through
the timber to where you were sitting. I happened to see him, and I followed him to see what
he was up to, why he should take such measures to keep under cover."

"The explanation is simple," she answered stiffly. "You can believe it or not, as you choose.
My being there was purely unintentional. If I had seen him before he was close, I should certainly
not have been there. I have been at odds with myself all day, and I went for a walk, to find
a quiet place where I could sit and think."

"It doesn't matter now," he said. "Only you'd better try to avoid things like that in the future.
Would you mind telling me just exactly what you meant a minute ago? Just what you propose to do?"

He asked her that as one might make any commonplace inquiry, but his quietness did not deceive
Stella.

"What I said," she began desperately. "Wasn't it plain enough? It seems to me our life is going
to be a nightmare from now on if we try to live it together. I--I'm sorry, but you know how
I feel. It may be unwise, but these things aren't dictated by reason. You know that. If our
emotions were guided by reason and expediency, we'd be altogether different. Last night I was
willing to go on and make the best of things. To-day,--especially after this,--it looks impossible.
You'll look at me, and guess what I'm thinking, and hate me. And I'll grow to hate you, because
you'll be little better than a jailer. Oh, don't you see that the way we'll feel will make
us utterly miserable? Why should we stick together when no good can come of it? You've been
good to me. I've appreciated that and liked you for it. I'd like to be friends. But I--I'd
hate you with a perfectly murderous hatred if you were always on the watch, always suspecting
me, if you taunted me as you did a while ago. I'm just as much a savage at heart as you are,
Jack Fyfe. I could gladly have killed you when you were jerking me about back yonder."

"I wonder if you are, after all, a little more of a primitive being than I've supposed?"

Fyfe leaned toward her, staring fixedly into her eyes--eyes that were bright with unshed tears.

"And I was holding the devil in me down back there, because I didn't want to horrify you with
anything like brutality," he went on thoughtfully. "You think I grinned and made a monkey of
him because it pleased me to do that? Why, I could have--and ached to--break him into little
bits, to smash him up so that no one would ever take pleasure in looking at him again. And
I didn't, simply and solely because I didn't want to let you have even a glimpse of what I'm
capable of when I get started. I wonder if I made a mistake? It was merely the reaction from
letting him go scot-free that made me shake you so. I wonder--well, never mind. Go on."

"I think it's better that I should go away," Stella said. "I want you to agree that I should;
then there will be no talk or anything disagreeable from outside sources. I'm strong, I can
get on. It'll be a relief to have to work. I won't have to be the kitchen drudge Charlie made
of me. I've got my voice. I'm quite sure I can capitalize that. But I've got to go. Anything's
better than this; anything that's clean and decent. I'd despise myself if I stayed on as your
wife, feeling as I do. It was a mistake in the beginning, our marriage."

"Nevertheless," Fyfe said slowly, "I'm afraid it's a mistake you'll have to abide by--for a
time. All that you say may be true, although I don't admit it myself. Offhand, I'd say you
were simply trying to welch on a fair bargain. I'm not going to let you do it blindly, all
wrought up to a pitch where you can scarcely think coherently. If you are fully determined
to break away from me, you owe it to us both to be sure of what you're doing before you act.
I'm going to talk plain. You can believe it and disdain it if you please. If you were leaving
me for a man, a real man, I think I could bring myself to make it easy for you and wish you
luck. But you're not. He's--"

"Can't we leave him out of it?" she demanded. "I want to get away from you both. Can you understand
that? It doesn't help you any to pick him to pieces."

