"A little Biblical quotation wouldn't go so bad right in there," he said, when they had finally
established the Great Sacrifice for a Woman. "We'll let Roderick have a line like: 'Greater
love hath no man than laying down his life to save another's.'" He touched a page of the manuscript
with his finger. "There's a good place for it."

"Aren't you afraid it would sound a little--smug?" Canby asked timidly. "The way we've got
him now, Roderick seems to me to be always seeing himself as a splendid man and sort of pointing
it out to the--"

"Good gracious!" cried Potter, astounded. "Hasn't it got to be pointed out? The audience hasn't
got a whole lifetime to study him in; it's only got about two hours. Besides, I don't see what
you say; I don't see it at all! It seems to me I've worked him around into being a perfectly
natural character."

"I suppose you're right," said Canby, meekly scribbling.

"Biblical quotations never do any harm to the box-office," Potter added. "You may not get a
hand on 'em, but you'll never get a cough, either." He looked dreamily at the ceiling. "I've
often thought of doing a Biblical play. I'd have it built around the character of St. Paul.
That's one they haven't touched yet, and it's new. I wouldn't do it with a beard and long hair.
I wouldn't use much makeup. No. Just the face as it is."

"You can do practically anything with a religious show," said Tinker. "That's been proved.
You can run in gambling and horse-racing and ballys, and you'll get people into the house,
night after night, that think the theatre's wicked and wouldn't go to see 'Rip Van Winkle.'
They do a lot of good, too--religious shows--just that way."

"I think I'd play it in armour," Potter continued his thought, still gazing at the ceiling.
"I believe it would be a big thing."

"It might if it was touted right," said Tinker. "It all depends on the touting. If you get
it touted to the tank towns that you've got a play with the great religious gonzabo, then your
show's a big property. Same if you get it touted for a great educational gonzabo. Or 'artistic.'
Get it touted right for 'artistic,' and the tanks'll think they like it, even if they don't.
Look at 'Cyrano'--they liked Mansfield and his acting, but they didn't like the show. They
said they liked the show, and thought they did, but they didn't. If they'd like it as much
as they said they did, that show would be running like 'Uncle Tom's Cabin.' Speaking of that"--he
paused, coughed, and went on--"I'm glad you've got the ingenue's part straightened out in this
piece. I thought from the first it would stand a little lengthening."

Potter, unheeding, dreamily proceeded: "In silver armour. Might silver the hair a little--not
too much. Play it as a spiritual character, but not solemn. Wouldn't make it turgid; keep it
light. Have the whole play spiritual but light. For instance, have room in it for a religious
ingenue part--make her a younger sister of Mary Magdalene, say, with St. Paul becoming converted
for her sake after he'd been a Roman General. I believe it's a big idea."

Canby was growing nervous. All this seemed to be rambling farther and farther from "Roderick
Hanscom." Potter relieved his anxiety, however, after a thoughtful sigh, by saying abruptly:
"Well, well, we can't go into a big production like that, this late in the year. We'll have
to see what can be done with 'Roderick Hanscom.'" He looked at the door, where the Japanese
was performing a shrinking curtsey. "What is it, Sato?"

"Miss Pata."

"Who?"

"Miss Pata."

A voice called from the hallway: "It's me, Mr. Potter. Packer."

"Oh, come in! Come in!"

The stage-manager made a deferential entrance. "It's about Miss--"

"Sit down, Packer."

"Thank you, Mr. Potter." Evidently considering the command a favour, Packer sat. "I saw Miss
Lyston, sir--"

"I won't turn her adrift," said his employer peevishly. "You see, Mr. Canby, here's another
of the difficulties of my position. Miss Lyston has been with me for several years, and for
this piece we've got somebody I think will play her part better, but I haven't any other part
for Miss Lyston. And we start so late in the season, this year, she'll probably not be able
to get anything else to do; so she's on my hands. I can't turn people out in the snow like
that. Some managers can, but I can't. And yet I have letters begging me for all kinds of charities
every day. They don't know what my company costs me in money like this--absolutely thrown away
so far as any benefit to me is concerned. And often I find I've been taken advantage of, too.
I shouldn't be at all surprised to find that Miss Lyston has comfortable investments right
now, and that she's only scheming to--Packer, don't you know whether she's been saving her
salary or not? If you don't you ought to."

"I came to tell you, sir. I thought you might be relieved to know. We don't have to bother
about her, Mr. Potter. I've been to see her at her flat, this evening, and she's as anxious
to get away from us, Mr. Potter, as we are to--"

The star rose to his feet, his face suffusing. "You sit there," he exclaimed, "and tell me
that a member of my company finds the association so distasteful that she wants to get away!"

"Oh, no, Mr. Potter!" the stage-manager protested. "Not that at all! She's very sorry to go.
She asked me to tell you that she felt she was giving up a great honour, and to thank you for
all your kindness to her."

"Go on!" Potter sternly bade him. "Why does she wish to leave my company?"

"Why, it seems she's very much in love with her husband, sir, Vorley Surbilt--"

"It doesn't seem possible," said Potter, shaking his head. "I know him, and it sounds like
something you're making up as you go along, Packer."

"Indeed, I'm not, Mr. Potter!" the stage-manager cried, in simple distress. "I wouldn't know how."

"Go on!"

"Well, sir, it seems Vorly Surbilt was to go out with Mrs. Romaley, and it seems that when
Miss Lyston left rehearsal she drove around till she found him--"

"Ah! I knew she was fooling me! I knew she wasn't sick! Went to drive with her husband, and
I pay the cab bill!"

"No, no, sir! I forgot to tell you; she wouldn't let me pay it. She took him home and put him
to bed--and from what I heard on Broadway it was time somebody did! It seems they'd had an
offer to go into a vaudeville piece together, and after she got him to bed she telephoned the
vaudeville man, and had him bring up a contract, and they signed it, though she had to guide
Vorley's hand for him. Anyway, he's signed up all right, and so is she. That's why she was
so anxious about fixing it up with us. I told her it would be all right."

Potter relapsed into his chair in an attitude of gloom. "So they've begun to leave Talbot Potter's
company!" he said, nodding his head with bitter melancholy. "For vaudeville! I'd better go
to farming at once; I often think of it. What sort of an act is it that Miss Lyston prefers
to remaining with me? Acrobatic?"

"It's a little play," said Packer. "It's from the Grand Guignol."

"French!" Potter this simply as an added insult on the part of Miss Lyston. "French!"

"They say it's a wonderful little thing," said Packer innocently, but it was as if he had run
a needle into his sensitive employer. Potter instantly sprang up again with a cry of pain.

"Of course it's wonderful! It's French; everything French is wonderful, magnificent, Supreme!
Everything French is HOLY! Good God, Packer! You'll be telling me what my 'technique' ought
to be, next!"

He hurled himself again into the chair and moaned, then in a dismal voice inquired; "Miss Lyston
struck you as feeling that her condition in life was distinctly improved by this ascent into
vaudeville, didn't she?"

"Oh, not at all, Mr. Potter! But, of course," Packer explained deprecatingly, "she's pleased
to have Vorly where she can keep an eye on him. She said that though she was all broken up
about leaving the company, she expected to be very happy in looking after him. You see, sir,
it's the first time in all their married life they've had a chance to be together except one
summer when neither of 'em could get a stock engagement."

Potter made no reply but to shake his head despondently, and Packer sat silent in deference,
as if waiting to be questioned further. It was the playwright who presently filled the void.
"Why haven't Mr. and Mrs. Surbilt gone into the same companies, if they care to be together?
I should think they'd have made it a point to get engagements in the same ones."

Packer looked disturbed. "It's not done much," he said.

"Besides, Vorly Surbilt plays leading parts with women stars," old Tinker volunteered. "You
see, naturally, it wouldn't do at all."

"Jealousy, you mean?"

"Not necessarily the kind you're thinking of. But it just doesn't do."

"Some managers will allow married couples in their companies," Potter said, adding emphatically:
"I won't! I never have and I never will! Never! There's just one thing every soul in my support
has got to keep working for, and that is a high-tension performance every night in the year.
If married people are in love with each other, they're going to think more about that than
about the fact that they're working for me. If they aren't in love with each other, there's
the devil to pay. I'd let the best man or woman in the profession go--and they could go to
vaudeville, for all I cared!--if I had to keep their wives or husbands travelling with us.
I won't have 'em! My soul! I don't marry, do I?"

Packer rose. "Is there anything else for me, Mr. Potter?"

"Yes. Take this interlined script, get some copies typewritten, and see that the company's
sides are changed to suit it. Be especially careful about that young Miss--ah--Miss Malone's.
You'll find her part is altered considerably, and will be even more, when Mr. Canby gets the
dialogue for other changes finished. He'll let you have them to-morrow. By the way, Packer,
where did you find--" He paused, stretched out his hand to the miniature sedan chair of liqueurs,
took a decanter and tiny glass therefrom, and carefully poured himself a sparkling emerald
of creme de menthe. "Will you have something, Mr. Canby?" he asked. "You, Tinker?"

Both declined in silence; they seemed preoccupied.

"Where did I what, Mr. Potter?" asked the stage-manager, reminding him of the question left
unfinished.

"What?"

"You said: 'By the way, where did you find--'"

"Oh, yes." Potter smiled negligently. "Where did you find that little Miss Malone? At the agents'?"

Packer echoed him: "Where did I find her?" He scratched his head. "Miss"--he said ruminatively,
repeating the word slowly, like a man trying to work out the solution of a puzzle--"Miss--"

"Miss Malone. I suppose you got her at an agent's?"

"Let's see," said Packer. "At an agent's? No. No, it wasn't. Come to think of it, it wasn't."

"Then where did you get her?" Tinker inquired.

"That's what I just asked him," Potter said, placing his glass upon a table without having
tasted the liqueur. "What's the matter, Packer? Gone to sleep?"

"I remember now," said Packer, laughing deferentially. "Of course! No. It wasn't through any
of the agents. Now I remember--come to think of it--I sort of ran across her myself, as a matter
of fact. I wasn't just sure who you meant at first. You mean the understudy, the one that's
to play Miss Lyston's part, that Miss--Miss--" He snapped a finger and thumb to spur memory
and then, as in triumphant solution of his puzzle, cried, "Ma--Malone! Miss Malone!"

"Yes," said Potter, looking upon him darkly. "Where did you sort of run across her, come to
think of it, as a matter of fact?"

"Oh, I remember all about it, now," said Packer brightly. "Why, she was playing last summer
in stock out at Seeleyville, Pennsylvania. That's only about six miles from Packer's Ridge,
where my father lives. I spent a couple of weeks with him, and we trolleyed over one evening
to see 'The Little Minister,' because father got it in his head some way that it was about
the Baptists, and I couldn't talk him out of it. It wasn't as bad a performance as you'd think,
and this little girl was a pretty fair 'Babbie.' Father forgot all about the Baptists and kept
talking about her after we got home, until nothing would do but we must go over and see that
show again. He wanted to take her right out to the farm and adopt her--or something; he's a
widower, and all alone out there. Fact is, I had all I could do to keep him from going around
to ask her, and I was pretty near afraid he'd speak to her from the audience. Well, to satisfy
him, I did go around after the show, and gave her my card, and told her if I could do anything
for her in New York to let me know. Of course, naturally, when I got back to town I forgot
all about it, but I got a note from her that she was here, looking for an engagement, the very
day you told me to scare up an understudy. So I thought she might do as well as anybody I'd
get at the agent's, and I let her have it." He drew a breath of relief, like that of a witness
leaving the stand, and with another placative laugh, letting his eyes fall humbly under the
steady scrutiny of his master, he concluded: "Of course I remember all about it, only at first
I wasn't sure which one you meant; it's such a large company."

"I see," said Potter grimly. "You engaged her to please your father."

"Oh, Mr. Potter!" the stage-manager protested. "If you don't like her--"

"That will do!" Potter cut him off, and paced the floor, virulently brooding. "And so Talbot
Potter's company is to be made up of actors engaged to suit the personal whims of L. Smith
Packer's father, old Mister Packer of Baptist Ridge, near Seeleyville, Pennsylvania!"

"But, Mr. Potter, if you don't--"

"I said that would DO!" roared Potter. "Good-night!"

"Good-night, sir," said the stage-manager humbly, and humbly got himself out of the room, to
be heard, an instant later, bidding the Japanese an apologetic good-night at the outer door
of the apartment.

Canby rose to take his own departure, promising to have the new dialogue "worked out" by morning.

"He is, too!" said Potter, not heeding the playwright, but confirming an unuttered thought
in his own mind. He halted at the table, where he had set his tiny glass, and gulped the emerald
at a swallow. "I always thought he was!"

"Was what?" inquired old Tinker.

"A hypocrite!"

"D'you mean Packer?" said Tinker incredulously.

"He's a hypocrite!" Potter shouted fiercely. "And I shouldn't be surprised if his father was
another! Widower! I never saw the man in my life, but I'd swear it on oath! He is a hypocrite!
Packer's father is a damned old Baptist hypocrite!"

VIII

With this sonorous bit of character reading still ringing in his ears, Canby emerged from the
cream-coloured apartment to find the stoop-shouldered figure of the also hypocritical son leaning
wearily against the wall, waiting for a delaying elevator. The attitude was not wholly devoid
of pathos, to Canby's view of it. Neither was the careworn, harried face, unharmoniously topped
by a green hat so sparklingly jaunty, not only in colour but in its shape and the angle of
its perch, that it was outright hilarious, and, above the face of Packer, made the playwright
think pityingly of a St. Patrick's Day party holding a noisy celebration upon a hearse.

Its wearer nodded solemnly as the elevator bounced up, flashing, and settled to the level of
the floor; but the quick drop through the long shaft seemed to do the stage-manager a disproportionate
amount of good. Halfway down he emitted a heavy "Whew!" of relief and threw back his shoulders.
He seemed to swell, to grow larger; lines verged into the texture of his face, disappearing;
and with them went care and seeming years. Canby had casually taken him to be about forty,
but so radical was the transformation of him that, as the distance from his harrowing overlord
increased, the playwright beheld another kind of creature. In place of the placative, middle-aged
varlet, troubled and hurrying to serve, there stepped out of the elevator, at the street level,
a deep-chested, assertive, manly adventurer, about thirty, kindly eyed, picturesque, and careless.
The green hat belonged to him perfectly.

He gave Canby a look of burlesque ruefulness over his shoulder, the comedy appeal of one schoolboy
to another as they leave a scolding teacher on the far side of the door. "The governor does
keep himself worked up!" he laughed, as they reached the street and paused. "If it isn't one
thing, it's some thing!"

"Perhaps it's my play just now," said Canby. "I was afraid, earlier this evening, he meant
to drop it. Making so many changes may have upset his nerves."

"Lord bless your soul! No!" exclaimed the new Packer. "His nerves are all right! He's always
the same! He can't help it!"

"I thought possibly he might have been more upset than usual," Canby said. "There was a critic
or something that--"

"No, no, Mr. Canby!" Packer chuckled. "New plays and critics, they don't worry him any more
than anything else. Of course he isn't going to be pleased with any critics. Most of them give
him splendid notices, but they don't please him. How could they?"

"He's always the same, you think?" Canby said blankly.

"Always--always at top pitch, that is, and always unexpected. You'll see as you get to know
him. You won't know him any better than you do now, Mr. Canby; you'll only know him more. I've
been with him for four years--stage-manager--hired man--maid-of-all-work--order his meals for
him in hotels--and I guess old Tinker and I know him as well as anybody does, but it's a mighty
big job to handle him just right. It keeps us hopping, but that's bread and butter. Not much
bread and butter anywhere these days unless you do hop! We all have to hop for somebody!" He
chuckled again, and then unexpectedly became so serious he was almost truculent. "And I tell
you, Mr. Canby," he cried, "by George! I'd sooner hop for Talbot Potter than for any other
man that ever walked the earth!"

He took a yellow walking-stick from under his arm, thrust the manuscript Potter had given him
into the pocket of his light overcoat, and bade his companion good-night with a genial flourish
of the stick. "Subway to Brooklyn for mine. Your play will go, all right; don't worry about
that, Mr. Canby. Good-night and good luck, Mr. Canby."

Canby went the other way, marvelling.

It was eleven; and for half an hour the theatres had been releasing their audiences to the
streets;--the sidewalks were bobbing and fluttering; automobiles cometed by bleating peevishly.
Suddenly, through the window of a limousine, brilliantly lighted within, Canby saw the face
of Wanda Malone, laughing, and embowered in white furs. He stopped, startled; then he realized
that Wanda Malone's hair was not red. The girl in the limousine had red hair, and was altogether
unlike Wanda Malone in feature and expression.

He walked on angrily.

Immediately a slender girl, prettily dressed, passed him. She clung charmingly to the arm of
a big boy; and to Canby's first glance she was Wanda Malone. Wrenching his eyes from her, he
saw Wanda Malone across the street getting into a taxicab, and then he stumbled out of the
way of a Wanda Malone who almost walked into him. Wherever there was a graceful gesture or
turn of the head, there was Wanda Malone.

He wheeled, and walked back toward Broadway, and thought he caught a glimpse of Packer going
into a crowded drug-store near the corner. The man he took to be Packer lifted his hat and
spoke to a girl who was sitting at a table and drinking soda-water, but when she looked up
and seemed to be Wanda Malone with a blue veil down to her nose, Canby turned on his heel,
face-about, and headed violently for home.

When he reached quieter streets his gait slackened, and he walked slowly, lost in deep reverie.
By and by he came to a halt, and stood still for several minutes without knowing it. Slowly
he came out of the trance, wondering where he was. Then he realized that his staring eyes had
halted him automatically; and as they finally conveyed their information to his conscious mind,
he perceived that he was standing directly in front of a saloon, and glaring at the sign upon
the window:

ALES WINES LIQUORS AND CIGARS

TIM MALONE

At that, somewhere in his inside, he cried out, in a kind of anguish: "Isn't there anything--anywhere--any
more--except Wanda Malone!"

IX

"Second act, ladies and gentlemen!" cried Packer, at precisely ten o'clock the next morning.

About a dozen actors were chatting in small groups upon the stage; three or four paced singly,
muttering and mildly gesticulating, with the fretful preoccupation of people trying to remember;
two or three, seated, bent over their typewritten "sides," studying intently; and a few, invisible
from the auditorium, were scattered about the rearward rooms and passageways. Talbot Potter,
himself, was nowhere to be seen, and, what was even more important to one tumultuously beating
heart "in front," neither was Wanda Malone. Mr. Stewart Canby in a silvery new suit, wearing
a white border to his waistcoat collar and other decorations proper to a new playwright, sat
in the centre of the front row of the orchestra. Yesterday he had taken a seat about nine rows
back.

He bore no surface signs of the wear and tear of a witches' night; riding his runaway play
and fighting the enchantment that was upon him. Elastic twenty-seven does not mark a bedless
session with violet arcs below its eyes;--what violet a witch had used upon Stewart Canby this
morning appeared as a dewey boutonniere in the lapel of his new coat; he was that far gone.

Miss Ellsling and a youth of the company took their places near the front of the stage and
began the rehearsal of the second act with a dialogue that led up to the entrance of the star
with the "ingenue," both of whom still remained out of the playwright's range of vision.

As the moment for their appearance drew near, Canby became, to his own rage, almost uncontrollably
agitated. Miss Ellsling's scene, which he should have followed carefully, meant nothing to
him but a ticking off of the seconds before he should behold with his physical eyes the living
presence of the fairy ghost that had put a spell upon him. He was tremulous all over.

Miss Ellsling and her companion came to a full stop and stood waiting. Thereupon Packer went
to the rear of the stage, leaned through an open doorway, and spoke deferentially:

"Mr. Potter? All ready, sir. All ready, Miss--ah--Malone?"

Then he stepped back with the air of an unimportant person making way for his betters to pass
before him, while Canby's eyes fixed themselves glassily upon the shabby old doorway through
which an actual, breathing Wanda Malone was to come.

But he was destined not to see her appear in that expectant frame. Twenty years before--though
he had forgotten it--in a dazzling room where there was a Christmas tree, he had uttered a
shriek of ecstatic timidity just as a jingling Santa Claus began to emerge from behind the
tree, and he had run out of the room and out of the house. He did exactly the same thing now,
though this time the shriek was not vocal.

