The idea of seeing Burt shooting ducks nearly broke up the feast, and Webb swept the distant
river, full of floating ice that in the sunlight looked like snow. "I can see several out in
boats," he said, "and Burt, no doubt, is among them."

Then Amy, Alf, and Johnnie must have a look, but Ned devoted himself strictly to business,
and Amy remarked that he was becoming like a little sausage.

"Can the glass make us hear the noise of the gun better?" Johnnie asked, at which they all
laughed, Ned louder than any, because of the laughter of the others. It required but a little
thing to make these banqueters hilarious.

But there was one who heard them and did not laugh. From the brow of the hill a dark, sad face
looked down upon them. Lured by the beauty of the day, Mr. Alvord had wandered aimlessly into
the woods, and, attracted by merry voices, had drawn sufficiently near to witness a scene that
awakened within him indescribable pain and longing. He did not think of joining them. It was
not a fear that he would be unwelcomed that kept him away; he knew the family too well to imagine
that. A stronger restraint was upon him. Something in the past darkened even that bright day,
and built in the crystal air a barrier that he could not pass. They would give him a place
at their rustic board, but he could not take it. He knew that he would be a discord in their
harmony, and their innocent merriment smote his morbid nature with almost intolerable pain.
With a gesture indicating immeasurable regret, he turned and hastened away to his lonely home.
As he mounted the little piazza his steps were arrested. The exposed end of a post that supported
the inner side of its roof formed a little sheltered nook in which a pair of bluebirds had
begun to build their nest. They looked at him with curious and distrustful eyes as they flitted
to and fro in a neighboring tree, and he sat down and looked at them. The birds were evidently
in doubt and in perturbed consultation. They would fly to the post, then away and all around
the house, but scarcely a moment passed that Mr. Alvord did not see that he was observed and
discussed. With singular interest and deep suspense he awaited their decision. At last it came,
and was favorable. The female bird came flying to the post with a beakful of fine dry grass,
and her mate, on a spray near, broke out into his soft, rapturous song. The master of the house
gave a great sigh of relief. A glimmer of a smile passed over his wan face as he muttered,
"I expected to be alone this summer, but I am to have a family with me, after all."

Soon after the lunch had been discussed leisurely and hilariously the maple-sugar camp was
left in the care of Alf and Johnnie, with Abram to assist them. Amy longed for a stroll, but
even with the protection of rubber boots she found that the departing frost had left the sodded
meadow too wet and spongy for safety. Under Webb's direction she picked her way to the margin
of the swollen stream, and gathered some pussy willows that were bursting their sheaths.

CHAPTER XXIII

REGRETS AND DUCK-SHOOTING

