In all the physical experiments that have been made upon India teas, there is, perhaps, none
that shews its acid astringency more than one tried by the above writer, Dr. Priestley. Endeavouring
to trace the differences and ascertain the astringency and bitterness of vegetables reciprocally
bear to each other, he imagined he had found they were distinct and separate properties, by
the following experiment: Taking two pieces of calf-skin just stripped from the calf, he immerged
them in cold infusions of green and bohea tea; at the expiration of a week he found they were
hard and curled up, and that there was no sensible difference between them. He therefore concluded,
that this experiment afforded a striking proof of India tea differently affecting a dead and
a living fibre; this he considered as the greatest effect of a medicine. But, with deference
to so distinguished an author, I cannot but attribute this astringency of the skin to the particular
properties of India tea; for all physical as well as medical experience proves that vegetable
produce afford some that are astringent, and others that are relaxant, of the dead as well
as the living fibre. Oak bark is equally astringent, and hardens the fibres of the hide, as
well as it braces the living nerve of our bodies; therefore the effect produced by the India
tea upon the dead skin only proves, what we have before related, that an infusion of it has
a peculiar effect, which, being too frequently applied to the nerves, destroys their tensity
by their fine fibres being either broken or relaxed by overbracing. Were any astringent to
be constantly taken, it must ultimately produce more or less such an effect; so that while
the above experiment of the learned Philosopher demonstrates that India tea has the power of
astringing the dead as well as the living fibres, it does not prove that astringency bitterness
are separate qualities. On the contrary, bitterness seems to be the characteristic taste of
all that has the tendency to contract whatever is the subject of its application. Thus galls,
bark, rhubarb, camomile tea, &c. &c. are all bitter and astringent. It is, therefore, the immoderate
use of such an astringent that ultimately relaxes and debilitates: like the too frequent bracing
of a drum, or any other stringed musical instrument, destroys its tensity, the body is unnerved
by the overstretching of its fibres. Although we sometimes differ with the celebrated Doctor
in part of the conclusion he has drawn from his experiment, yet the following sentiments so
perfectly coincide with all our observations upon India teas, that we are happy to have the
opportunity of corroborating our own with the sentiments of so eminent a Philosopher. He says,
from his experiments, "it appears that green and bohea teas are equally bitter, strike precisely
the same black tinge with green vitriol, and are alike astringent on the simple fibre. From
this exact similarity in so many circumstances, one should be led to suppose that there would
be no sensible diversity in their operation on the living body; but the fact is otherwise:
green tea is much more sedative and relaxant than bohea; and the finer the species of tea,
the more debilitating and pernicious are its effects, as I have frequently observed in others,
and experienced in myself. This seems to be a proof that the mischiefs ascribed to this oriental
vegetable do not arise from the warm vehicle by which it is conveyed into the stomach, but
chiefly from its own peculiar qualities." Dr. Hugh Smith, in his Treatise on the Action of
the Muscles, justly says, that an infusion of India tea not only diminishes, but destroys the
bodily functions. Thea infusum, nervo musculove ranæ admotum, vires motices minuit perdit.