There was nothing to do but get in out of the lock and start for home, and little on the trip
is worthy of recounting. Without unsurpassable difficulty, I was able to operate the machinery
and steer, first for Betelguese, then for the sun. Counting on the warning bells to arouse
me, I managed to get in snatches of sleep at odd intervals. At times the strain of the long
watches was almost maddening.

By the time the midpoint had been passed, I was living in a sort of waking dream; or rather,
a state of somnambulism. I ate; my hands moved the controls. And yet all the while my mind
was wandering elsewhere--out to Garth's body under the blazing light of Rigel, back to the
moon and Kelvar, or else in an unreal, shadowy world of dreams and vague memories.

       *       *       *       *       *

With perfect mechanical accuracy I entered the solar system and adjusted the projectors for
the sun's attraction. Running slower and slower, I watched Venus glide by. And then, gradually,
everything faded, and I was walking along the great Nardos bridge with Kelvar. The ocean was
so still that we could see mirrored in it the reflection of each white column, and our own
faces peering down, and beyond that the stars.

"I shall bring you a handful for your hair," I told her, and leaned over farther, farther,
reaching out.... Then I was falling, with Kelvar's face growing fainter, and in my ears a horrible
ringing like the world coming to an end.

Just before I could strike the water, I wakened to find the alarm bell jangling and the object-indicator
light flashing away. Through the telescope, the moon was large in the sky.

It was an hour, perhaps two, before I approached the sunlit surface and hovered over the shore
by Nardos. Try as I would, my sleep-drugged body could not handle the controls delicately enough
to get the Comet quite in step with the moon's rotation. Always a little too fast or too slow.
I slid down until I was only ten or fifteen feet off the ground that seemed to be moving out
from under me. In another minute I should be above the water. I let everything go, and the
Comet fell. There was a thud, a sound of scraping over the sand, a list to one side. I thought
for an instant that the vessel was going to turn over, but with the weight of the reserve mercury
in the fuel tanks it managed to right itself on a slope of ten or fifteen degrees.

From the angle, I could barely see out the windows, and everything looked strange. The water
under the bridge seemed too low. The half-full Earth had greenish-black spots on it. And the sky?

       *       *       *       *       *

So dead with sleep that I could scarcely move, I managed to crane my neck around to see better.
There was no sky, only a faint gray haze through which the stars shone. And yet the sun must
be shining. I stretched still further. There the sun burned, and around it was an unmistakable
corona. It was like airless space.

Was I dreaming again?

With a jerk, I got to my feet and climbed up the sloping floor to the atmosphere tester. My
fingers slipped off the stop-cock, then turned it. And the air-pressure needle scarcely moved.
It was true. Somehow, as the scientists had always told us would be the case eventually, the
air of the moon, with so little gravity to hold it back, had evaporated into space.

But in six months? It was unthinkable. Surely someone had survived the catastrophe. Some people
must have been able to keep themselves alive in caves where the last of the atmosphere would
linger. Kelvar must be still alive. I could find her and bring her to the Comet. We would go
to some other world.

Frantically, I pulled on my space-suit and clambered through the air-lock. I ran, until the
cumbersome suit slowed me down to a staggering walk through the sand beside the Oceanus Procellarum.

Leaden and dull, the great sea lay undisturbed by the thin atmosphere still remaining. It had
shrunk by evaporation far away from its banks, and where the water once had been there was
a dark incrustation of impurities. On the land side, all was a great white plain of glittering
alkali without a sign of vegetation. I went on toward Nardos the Beautiful.

       *       *       *       *       *

Even from afar off, I could see that it was desolate. Visible now that the water had gone down,
the pillars supporting it rose gaunt and skeletal. Towers had fallen in, and the gleaming white
was dimmed. It was a city of the dead, under an Earth leprous-looking with black spots where
the clouds apparently had parted.

I came nearer to Nardos and the bridge, nearer to the spot where I had last seen Kelvar. Below
the old water level, the columns showed a greenish stain, and half-way out the whole structure
had fallen in a great gap. I reached the land terminus of the span, still glorious and almost
beautiful in its ruins. Whole blocks of stone had fallen to the sand, and the adamantine pillars
were cracked and crumbling with the erosion of ages.

Then I knew.

In our argument as to the possible speed of the Comet, Garth and I had both been right. In
our reference frame, the vessel had put on an incredible velocity, and covered the nine-hundred-odd
light-years around Rigel in six months. But from the viewpoint of the moon, it had been unable
to attain a velocity greater than that of light. As the accelerating energy pressed the vessel's
speed closer and closer toward that limiting velocity, the mass of the ship and of its contents
had increased toward infinity. And trying to move laboriously with such vast mass, our clocks
and bodies had been slowed down until to our leaden minds a year of moon time became equivalent
to several hours.

The Comet had attained an average velocity of perhaps 175,000 miles per second, and the voyage
that seemed to me six months had taken a thousand years. A thousand years! The words went ringing
through my brain. Kelvar had been dead for a thousand years. I was alone in a world uninhabited
for centuries.

I threw myself down and battered my head in the sand.

       *       *       *       *       *

More to achieve, somehow, my own peace of mind, than in any hope of its being discovered, I
have written this narrative. There are two copies, this to be placed in a helio-beryllium box
at the terminus of the bridge, the other within the comet[TN-3]. One at least should thus be
able to escape the meteors which, unimpeded by the thin atmosphere, have begun to strike everywhere,
tearing up great craters in the explosion that follows as a result of the impact.

My time is nearly up. Air is still plentiful on the Comet, but my provisions will soon run
short. It is now slightly over a month since I collapsed on the sands into merciful sleep,
and I possess food and water for perhaps another. But why go on in my terrible loneliness?

Sometimes I waken from a dream in which they are all so near--Kelvar, Garth, all my old companions--and
for a moment I cannot realize how far away they are. Beyond years and years. And I, trampling
back and forth over the dust of our old life, staring across the waste, waiting--for what?

No, I shall wait only until the dark. When the sun drops over the Grimaldi plateau, I shall
put my manuscripts in their safe places, then tear off my helmet and join the other two.

An hour ago, the bottom edge of the sun touched the horizon.