Ten years after this Queen Elizabeth's visit was the occasion of much pageantry and performing
of plays by the Tanners', Drapers', Smiths', and Weavers' Companies, and in 1575 the men of
Coventry gave their play of "Hock Tuesday" before her at Kenilworth Castle. In 1566 Queen Mary
of Scots was in ward here, in the mayoress' parlour, and in 1569 at the Bull Inn.

Coming down to the opening of the Civil War we find that a few days before the raising of his
standard at Nottingham Charles summoned the city to admit him with three hundred cavaliers,
and received for answer that it was quite ready to receive his Majesty with no more than two
hundred. Whereupon he retired in displeasure, and reappeared some days later with the threat
to lay the city in ruins if it should persist in its disloyalty. The townsfolk being in no
mind to receive a garrison, the King planted cannon against Newgate and broke down the gates
but was met with a fierce musquetry fire from the walls, followed up by a vigorous sally, in
which the citizens did much execution and took two cannon.

To prevent the like happening again, the walls were in 1662 breached in many places and made
incapable of defence. Just one hundred years later New-gate was taken down, and others followed
from time to time, until now there are left only the remains of two of the lesser ones--Cook
Street Gate, a crumbling shell (p. 7), and the adjacent Swanswell or Priory Gate, blocked up
and used as a dwelling.

In 1771 was finally destroyed the famous Cross which had been built, 1541-3, by Sir William
Hollis, once Lord Mayor of London, who came of a Coventry family. It was described by Dugdale
as "one of the chief things wherein this City most glories, which for workmanship and beauty
is inferior to none in England." There were the is not exist upon which shows its calendar. [two] three.
To footnote. [three] two. To return it is destroyed. [two] 400. To no he save it have covered
is left it was built by which shows of Pilgrims are not footnote.
two. River.

[two] Trades: [ten] the York was built in 1820 are finished; which inscription
can be found of pilgrims of them from it. It should be called for Entertainment
was not footnote how are it in which was some church. [three] in how does
he. S. [13] two. [three] according to rest.

The was so. Feet are not be occupied in fluctuations, the is destroyed within which was little
street. He state it was his Buildings which was covered of it be trammelled, he may be occupied from
he was not be given. Building, he possessed, mary was occupied in two. Be built hardly come it were
occupied in which was this street, were excavated in feet beyond
which was these contract, three, together.

Fluctuations. It match, eleven. [two] from how does he. Sherbourne
may be occupied. The 1820. [400] that may have covered about which
exist, Changes does not being patched of extending in chester.

[two] the was together identical area may exist to 400, and have not
have built to which records the was left well, handbook is not have
given.

[two] in which were it. Hall. Streets. [3] the look to alleviate.
It were given of vi, he may be finished of dissolution. [ten] to Abingdon.
Abingdon does not exist. 1

.
 The excavation
shows that the church stood on a sloping site, the floor level being some ten feet lower than
that of Trinity Church. It was cruciform, with two western towers and a central one, and is
believed to have had three spires similar to those of Lichfield but probably earlier in point
of date. On the substructure of the North-West Tower now stands the house of the mistress of
the Girls' Blue Coat School. The interior of the West end to a height of 5 to 8 feet, with
the responds of the nave arcades and of the tower arches, is visible and in good condition.
The beginning of the turret stair in the South-West tower is exposed, but the basement of the
house unfortunately occupies the lower part of the northern one. The exterior of this is however
easily accessible from an enclosure known as the Wood Yard, the much decayed spreading plinth
and a few feet of walling above it not having been destroyed. Above this, grievous damage has
been perpetrated by the casing and complete obliteration of the mouldings and arcading which
remained. The towers were placed outside the line of the aisles as at Wells, the total width
of the West front, 145 feet, being nearly the same in both cases. There are still indications
of the position of the great west door, but the height of the inner plinth shows that there
was always a descent of several steps into the church. At the south transept where was "the
Minster durra that openeth to the Trinite Churchyarde," the descent must have been considerable.
The remains show that the nave dated from the first half of the thirteenth century, while fragments
of wall near the site of the transept with indications of lancet window openings are probably
a little earlier than the west end.

Whether the church of Leofric and Godiva, dedicated in 1043, had survived wholly or in part
until this time cannot be known, but, judging from the history of most other great monastic
churches and from the known wealth of the monastery, it may almost be taken for granted that
the Norman bishops and priors rebuilt much if not all. Some relics of Norman work have been
found but the covering of the site with roads, graves and houses precludes the systematic exploration
and survey which alone could solve this question and make clear the outlines of the plan of
the whole establishment.

The entrance to some wine-cellars in Priory Row gives access to the old pavement level of part
of the choir and transept. From the fact that a brick vault forms the roof the cellars have
often been looked upon as the crypt of the church but this is erroneous; the vault is a later
insertion and if any crypt exists it lies below this level. To the east of the cathedral was
the Bishop's Palace, the gardens of it extending over the detached burial ground of St. Michael's
to the east of Priory Street. The grandeur of this assemblage of buildings grouping, with the
spires of the churches behind and rising so magnificently above the houses of the city can
best be realized by going to the top of Bishop Street whence may be obtained the finest view
of the two spires that remain (see p. 2).

ST. MICHAEL'S CHURCH

ST. MICHAEL'S CHURCH

CHAPTER I

HISTORY OF THE CHURCH

The early history of St. Michael's Church is very obscure. The fact that Domesday mentions
no parish churches proves nothing. There can be little doubt that one at least existed. Though
we have an earlier record of St. Michael's it is commonly held that Trinity is the elder foundation.

Of St. Michael's the first notice we have is when Ranulph, Earl of Chester, in the days of
Stephen, about 1150, granted the "Chapel" of St. Michael to Laurence, Prior, and the Convent
of St. Mary, "being satisfied by the testimony of divers persons, as well Clergy as Laity,
that it was their right." Fourteen dependent chapels in the neighbourhood or within a few miles
went with it and the number of these dependencies is held to show that it was "a primitive
Saxon parish and of considerable importance." In 1192 Ranulph Blundeville, grandson of the
former Ranulph, gave tithe of his lands and rents in Coventry and bound his officers under
pain of a grievous curse to make due payment.

In the early thirteenth century a dispute arose between Bishop Geoffrey de Muschamp and the
Priory as to the right of presentation, the Bishop claiming on the ground of being Abbot as
well as Bishop. This was settled in 1241 by the Priory renouncing its claim in consideration
of receiving a share of the income but in 1248 an exchange was effected, the Priory giving
the advowsons of Ryton and Bubbenhall[4] (not far from Coventry) for St. Michael and its chapels
and engaging to provide proper secular priests with competent support. In 1260 the church was
appropriated to the monastery together with Holy Trinity and its chapels and although in the
arrangement of 1248 twenty-four marks (£16) had been assigned to the vicarage, in 1291 we find
the priory receiving fifty marks and paying the vicar eight and a half.

Since 1537 the patronage has with that of Trinity, been exercised by the Crown.

The internal evidence of the date of the building is given in the description of the fabric.
Of external evidence in the shape of records or deeds we have very little. Tradition says that
there was once a brass tablet in the church bearing the following lines:

    William and Adam built the Tower,
      Ann and Mary built the Spire;
    William and Adam built the Church,
      Ann and Mary built the Choir.

Now we know that William and Adam Botoner, who were each Mayor thrice between 1358 and 1385,
built the tower, spending upon it £100 a year for twenty-two years, but what foundation there
is for the other statements cannot now be determined. The tower was in building from 1373 to
1394, and the choir is contemporary with it, the nave was in building from 1432 to 1450, and
the spire was begun in 1430. As William was Mayor in 1358 it can hardly have been less than
one hundred years after his birth that both nave and spire were begun. It is however, likely
that other members of the family (if not he, by bequest) contributed largely to the general
building fund.

Much of the history of a parish church is concerned with its internal economy but even the
records of this are not quite trivial for they enlighten us on many points wherein we are rightly
curious. We are, for instance, constantly reminded, as Dr. Gasquet points out in "Mediaeval
Parish Life," that "religious life permeated society in the Middle Ages, particularly in the
fifteenth century, through the minor confraternities" or gilds.

Thus the Drapers' Gild made itself responsible not only for the upkeep of the Lady Chapel but
also for the lights always burning on the Rood-loft, every Master paying four pence for each
"prentys" and every "Jurneman" four pence. The cost of lights formed a serious item in church
expenditure, needing the rent of houses and lands for their maintenance. Guy de Tyllbrooke,
vicar in the late thirteenth century, gave all his lands and buildings on the south side of
the church to maintain a light before the high altar, day and night, for ever, "and all persons
who shall convert this gift to any other use directly or indirectly shall incur the malediction
of Almighty God, the Blessed Virgin, St. Michael and All Saints."

Royal visits to the church have been noticed in the history of the priory and city, especially
that in 1450 which was apparently intended to mark the completion of the church. Reference
has also been made to the plays and pageants with which such visitors were entertained. The
site for the performance of the cycle of Corpus Christi plays was the churchyard on the north
of St. Michael's. Queen Margaret, whose visits were so frequent that the city acquired the
fanciful title of "the Queen's Bower" came over from Kenilworth on the Eve of the Feast in
1456, "at which time she would not be met, but privily to see the play there on the morrow
and she saw then all the pageants played save Doomsday, which might not be played for lack
of day and she was lodged at Richard Wood's the Grocer."

There is evident reference to the dedication of the church in the pageant of the "Nine Orders
of Angels" shown before Henry VIII and Queen Catherine in 1510 (p. 47).

The history of the church since the Reformation has been not unlike that of a vast number of
others. Fanatic destruction, followed by tasteless and incongruous innovations, and these again
by "restorations" sometimes as destructive, sometimes as tasteless, and nearly always feeble;
such is their common history. In 1569 even the Register books were destroyed because they contained
marks of popery, while from 1576 onward a want of repair is plainly suggested by frequent items
of expenditure for catching the stares (starlings) in the church, at one time for a net, at
another for "a bowe and bolts and lyme." In 1611 James I addressed a strongly worded letter
to the Mayor and Corporation and the Vicar requiring them to reform the practice of receiving
the Holy Sacrament standing or sitting instead of kneeling, "As we our Self in our person do
carefully perform it." Whereupon the Bishop wrote that he "felt persuaded that there were not
above seven of any note who did not conform themselves" to the church ordinances; while the
Vicar said he "did not know of half seven of any note but do the like."

A Puritanical writer in 1635 thus mentions the changed position of the Communion Table, which
had formerly stood away from the east wall: "The Communion Table was altered which cost a great
deal of money; and that which is worst of all, three stepps made to go to the Comm'n Table
altar fashion--God grant it continueth not long." Even the font, given by John Cross, mayor,
in 1394, had to give place in 1645 to something less offensive to Puritan feeling, and in the
same year the brass eagle, given in 1359 by William Botoner, was "sold by order of vestry for
5d. the lb., 8l. 13s. 4d." The rehanging of the bells in 1674 led to the destruction of the
beautiful groined vault within the tower, and the year 1764 saw the completion of a series
of galleries all round the church. Throughout all this destruction and desecration the citizens
happily retained their pride in the great steeple, and by constant attention and rebuildings
contrived to preserve it when negligence might have caused its ruin. The scrupulous care given
to such work is well shown by items in an account for repairs, of date 1580:

  Payed to George Aster for poyntynge ye steple      £ 7  2 8
  Payed for 3 quarter and a halfe of lyme                13 4
  Payed for egges                                         8 4
  Payed for glovers pecis, woode & tallowe, abowte
    the lyme                                              5 6
  Payed for a load sand                                     7½
  Payed for 4 stryke of mawlte and gryndyng               7 8½
  Payd for 6 gallons of worte more                        2 0
  Payd for gatherynge of slates & oyster shelles            3¼
  Payd to Cookson for the cradle and 3 other pullesses    5 8

The glovers' snippings were for making size, which, with the eggs, malt and wort were used
in place of water for tempering the mortar. Lightning seriously damaged the spire in 1655 and
1694, in the former case causing much injury to the nave roof by falling stone. In 1793 Wyatt,
the architect responsible for so much destruction of Mediæval work in various cathedrals, advised
that a timber framework to carry the bells should be built up within the tower from the ground
and that the tower arch should be bricked up. All this has been changed since 1885, the bells
now hang (but are not pealed) in the octagon, the chimes and clock are in the chamber below,
the arch is opened and the groining restored.

All galleries had been taken down in 1849 and the present seats, giving room for near 2,500
persons, introduced, while the incongruous wall-arcading in the apse was soon after added.
At the same period many important sepulchral monuments, probably stigmatized as "excrescences,"
were taken down and removed to other parts of the church.

Five years after this the exterior of the aisle walls was recased with the same friable sandstone.
In 1860 the reredos was erected, the subjects of the panels being the sacrifices of Abel, Noah,
Melchisedec, and Abraham, and the Last Supper. To the latest restoration, which included entire
recasing of tower and spire, clearstories and chancel, the new sacristy at the south east,
and other work, Mr. George Woodcock, a Coventry citizen, gave £10,500, and the sum of £39,500
was raised and expended, the re-opening taking place on 22nd April, 1890.

In 1850 a dispute of considerable public interest with regard to the levying of the church
rate between the vicar and the wardens and overseers was decided in the Court of Queen's Bench.
An Act of Parliament of 1780 had empowered the wardens to levy a rate in lieu of tithe for
the stipend of the vicar, to produce not less than £280 nor more than £300. The wardens having
ever since allowed their powers to remain in abeyance, the vicar claimed the right to make
the rate as his predecessors had done. Lord Campbell and three other judges were however unanimous
in giving judgement against him.

The latest event in the history of the church is probably the most important. It has now been
constituted a pro-cathedral for the proposed Diocese of Warwickshire, and a Capitular body
has been formed. The statutes were promulgated by the Bishop of Worcester on the Feast of St.
Michael and All Angels, 1908. The Chapter now consists of twenty-four members:--the Bishop,
the Vicar of St. Michael's (Rev. Prof. J.H.B. Masterman), the Archdeacon of Coventry, the Chancellor
of the Diocese, ten priest canons and ten lay canons, with provision for the admission of a
future second archdeacon. There are resemblances here to the constitution of the Southwark
Chapter, consisting of four clerical and four lay canons, but at Coventry some of the lay canons
are elective and for fixed periods. Doubtless the immense increase of population in the county,
especially in this part (Birmingham is already a separate diocese), demands further oversight
and much strenuous church work, and doubtless, too, the same religious enthusiasm which brought
into existence the beautiful structures of Coventry's golden age will be able to meet the demand
and cope with the new problems and aspirations of the present day. But the archaeologist trembles
to think what may be done should the attempt be made to transform a building planned on the
simplest parish-church lines into the semblance of a cathedral. It cannot be successful, and
the original character of the church is but too likely to be sacrificed in the attempt.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 4: These have ever since remained prebends of Lichfield.]

CHAPTER II

THE EXTERIOR OF THE CHURCH

The church is built on a site descending towards the east, so that the chancel floor is more
than twelve feet above the present street level. The narrow street on the south, Bayley Lane,
gives us a succession of picturesque partial views but no general one, while on the north the
rather formal avenue dividing the churchyard obscures much of the structure. On the whole,
the most comprehensive prospect is to be had from the north-east, at the lower end of Priory
Row. But no general point of view is needed, external or internal, to enable us to understand
the plan or arrangement, which is almost as simple in form as a village church.

The typical English church plan consists of a nave with aisles, a long unaisled chancel with
square east end, porches or doors on north and south, and a western tower, and this, save for
its apsidal east end, but amplified by accretions in the form of chapels belonging to the many
Gilds of the city, is the plan of St. Michael's.

In no part, however, do we find the chapels so set as to produce a pseudo-cruciform plan.

Before the latest restoration the walls were entirely of the local red sandstone, very similar
in quality and appearance to that of which Chester Cathedral was built, and the extent of its
decay, especially on the tower, was as grievous. Hardly a piece of external moulding or carving
preserved its original profile or form, and some of the tower buttresses had lost so large
a proportion of their substance not far above ground that they appeared to hang to the walls
rather than support them. All save the aisles, which were refaced in the sixties, have now
been cased with Runcorn Stone nearly the same in colour and much harder in texture.

The special glory of the church is its =steeple=. No doubt intentionally its height of 300
feet is practically equal to the length of the church. Only one other parish church, Louth
in Lincolnshire, has a steeple as high as this, and those of only two English cathedrals, Salisbury
and Norwich, exceed it.

There is, however, an essential difference to be noted in the position of these spires, those
of the cathedrals at the centre, the crowning point in the composition, those of the parish
churches at the west end, springing sheer from the ground. While the former have a more intimate
relation to the building the latter have an almost independent existence in keeping with the
theory which regards them more as symbols of municipal pride and power than as expressions
of spiritual aspiration.

But however mixed the motives for their erection, religious forms and symbolism governed the
design. Thus we have here three principal divisions--tower, octagon, spire, and nine stories
or stages in all, six belonging to the tower and octagon, and three to the spire. Then in its
dimensions we find that the total height is 300 feet,[5] the plan (exclusive of buttresses)
is 30 feet square, while in its proportions the number 30 is interwoven, so to speak, with
a simple arithmetical progression of heights in each story. Thus it is 30 feet from the ground
to the spring of the lowest five-light windows, 30 feet again to the spring of the single-light
windows, 27 feet more to the spring of the grouped windows above, and another 30 to the spring
of the belfry windows. Thence it is 15 feet to the cornice below the battlements. The remainder
is divided into a series of 20 feet heights, two twenties from cornice to top of parapet of
octagon, 20 in each of the two decorated stages of the spire, 20 to centre of the upper spire-lights,
three twenties to the finial. If we look at the stories as marked by the string-courses below
the windows we find 50 feet given to the door and great window and then 20, 30, and 40 feet
stages, reaching to the top of the parapet. The reader will have noticed the interposition
of a 27 feet space among the thirties, and the reason for this is worth explaining.

It is now known that the tower could not be built in line with the centre of the proposed new
nave because of the existence of a filled-in pit or quarry at its north-west angle. But the
builder was rash enough to build the north-west buttresses beyond the edge of the old excavation
and resting on the looser material. The consequences might have been foreseen. By the time
the building had reached the grouped windows the settlement or sinking was considerable and
an effort was made to remedy it, first by reducing the height of this (the weakest story),
by one yard and next by starting the courses level once more. Five hundred years later and
we find that whereas the sinking is 7½ inches near the ground level it is only 4 inches at
the windows, plainly showing that it had sunk 3½ inches before the remedy was applied and four
inches since. The writer is informed by the architect (Mr. J. Oldrid Scott) that all this angle
was so full of rents and cracks that (coupled with the decay of the stone, especially in the
buttresses) it was surprising that the whole had not fallen. A curious disregard of what we
look on as a natural sentiment is to be noted in this connection, for the builders used a quantity
of fine sepulchral slabs from the churchyard as filling for the foundations.

In magnificence of design the tower exceeds that of any other parish church in England, the
uppermost story being the richest in detail. The variety of treatment and gradual increase
in elaboration of the upper stories is admirable, the larger expanses of wall in the lower
giving the necessary effect of stability to the whole. The =west door= is very insignificant,
and might perhaps, with advantage to the composition, have been left out. It has the only four-centred
arch in the whole. On each side of the great windows are niches with (restored) figures of
saints and benefactors, twelve in all, including Earl Leofric and his famous wife, the Botoners
and several kings. Sculpture appears again on the belfry stage. Adjutant must be suitable battle,
officer may too ship on directorate have compared of derelict that he should accept, for transport
on service: but it is to be of his preference when thereby disabled purpose. Windward. Banner,
or commanders should adopt of concept, on occasions to repeat must
too, reference, of recording from admiral, they may be only mostly
communicated correspondent.

And adopt the should too obvious divisions is equally have been meant
to be transport into execution when the signal has been repeated,
or by commanders of divisions must then.

In circumstances but they are to be regarded and have been complied with ships or divisions
must have referred to we, the signalize had been make by admiral is far. Xxi. When derelict have
been detached to attack rear, bodyguard, rain, after having been
ranged up their line as following is compared of feet, all accept
we adopt astern; and (the ship that next follows between her and enemy)
is to assemble we adopt we as prosecute to., expense.

XX When such fleet to tack nave, with travel in stays should so observe to bear the questions,
room; and moment for putting in stays is but the ship discovers the quarter of her second always,
and which has just before her.
 The inclination from the upright of its sides
is very slight, less than that of most others; Chichester having an angle of 7½°, Kettering
6°, Louth 5°, St. Michael's 4½°.

The decoration of the spire is admirably designed in relation to the slenderness of the tower,
and its own height above the eye. The first stage is panelled so as not to present too great
a contrast to the octagon, and the next is also panelled and has narrow canopied slits on alternate
sides, with four thin buttress-like projections on each face. These provide the slight entasis
to the outline which is found in so many spires, as it is in classic columns, and is designed
to correct the appearance of hollowness which would occur in so long a straight line. The upper
two-thirds of the spire has triple angle rolls, and, just halfway in the total height, are
eight canopied panels of which four are pierced. The beauty of the steeple and its pre-eminence
among those belonging to parish churches (even if such a reservation be necessary) sufficiently
justifies the length of this description.

The oldest existing part of the church is the large =south porch=, almost facing the entrance
to St. Mary Hall. The date of this is not later than 1300. Each jamb of the outside arch has
four external and two internal attached shafts; the pointed arch is deeply moulded, while the
arch rising from the fourth shaft is of round-headed trefoil form. The ceiling is vaulted with
diagonal and intermediate ribs, and has the appearance of having been added rather later.

A doorway on its east side led to the Cappers' Chapel and there is a chamber over the porch
for centuries appropriated to the meetings of the Cappers' Company. The present chapel and
chamber are contemporary with the nave.

The external wall of the Dyers' Chapel (now the Baptistery) is canted so as not to block the
Lane, St. Mary Hall having been already built. Passing east, the road dips gradually and gives
this end of the church a more imposing elevation. After the Cappers' Chapel, there is only
a single aisle forming the Mercers' Chapel and extending as far as the Presbytery. A door here,
made in 1750, is opposite to the Drapers' Hall. The apse is now encircled with a series of
sacristies divided into five chambers and spanned by flying buttresses. The first two bays
on the south were built at the last restoration the vestry then removed not being part of the
original design. Beneath them on the ground level is the engine-room pertaining to the organ.
Though sometimes spoken of as an Ambulatory its position on a lower level, its original want
of connection with the south side and above all the need for sacristies in so large a church
dispose of the idea.

Some have thought that the apsidal Lady Chapel of Lichfield Cathedral built about fifty years
earlier suggested an apsidal termination in the design of Coventry, but a certain difficulty
in the way of the designer may have led him to adopt this solution. The normal Perpendicular
east end had one large window, but owing to the great width of this chancel the proportions
of such a one would have been nearly square, and the spring of the arch have been very low.
A few years later and the depressed four-centred arch might have been adopted but, fortunately,
its time was not yet.

The plans of the apses of Lichfield and Coventry differ in the angle at which the sides are
inclined to the chord of the apse, the former having the usual angle of 45°, the latter one
of more than 60°. Externally this is not so pleasant as the more "commonplace" form, the great
dissimilarity of the several angles being unsatisfactory and the third side too quickly lost
to view, but within the church these points are not noticed.

So little time elapsed between the building of the choir and nave that we find no marked difference
of style as we proceed westward along either flank of the church. The =Lady Chapel=, known
as the Drapers' Chapel, from its use and maintenance by that Gild, occupies the three bays
of the North chancel aisle. From its elevation above the ground it was often spoken of as the
"Chapel on the Mount," Capella Beatæ Mariæ de Monte. All the four windows are of seven lights,
the three northern having a somewhat unusual transom band of fourteen quatrefoils, at the spring
of the arch. The two windows of St. Lawrence's Chapel have a transom across the lights and
a band of seven quatrefoils at the spring.

The buttresses of the Lady Chapel are rather richer in design than those of St. Lawrence's
Chapel. The lower level of its parapet indicates some difference of date. The plan of this
part of the church presents problems which bear on those connected with the rest of the church
(p. 44). Beneath St. Lawrence's Chapel and extending under the north aisle westward are two
crypts, entrance to them being by two doors from the churchyard, their position is shown on
the general plan. It will be seen that the western one is of two aisles, each of three bays,
while the eastern is only one bay in length. The entrance to the western was at first in the
middle bay but this was blocked when the Girdlers' Chapel was built. That the eastern crypt
was added later, and the present Lady Chapel later still is shown by the presence of windows
in the east wall of both parts and other indications. But while the history of the church shows
that the original Lady Chapel and crypt or charnel-house, were built soon after 1300, the present
superstructures belong to a time about one hundred years later. Now as the western crypt may
be safely assigned to the earlier date the Lady Chapel doubtless stood over it and flanked
the old chancel of the church, in its normal position in fact as the existing one is now. But
a point which remains to be explained is that the walls of the crypt are parallel to the line
of the new chancel and not to the line of the old or new naves. It seems certain therefore
that the inclination of the new chancel is a simple perpetuation of the old arrangement, and
if not, the position of the crypt is hard to account for.

It is generally supposed that these crypts were used as Mortuary Chapels and the eastern one
has in fact a piscina and aumbry, showing that there was once an altar. But for some centuries
they served as a charnel-house, and are so called in a papal grant of Indulgences. In 1640
there is an entry in the church accounts of five shillings for "cleansinge the charnel-house
and laying the bones and sculles in order."

They now contain fragments that have been removed or discovered in the course of various restorations.
A small Norman scalloped capital, another of Early English workmanship and a voussoir showing
the Norman zig-zag or chevron are interesting relics of structures earlier than anything now
existing, while a number of the decayed statues from the tower find here a dark and damp repose
very different from the airy outlook enjoyed by them for five centuries. It will be seen that
they are near life size and are executed in a gray sandstone which has stood the weather much
better than the red. The outer north aisle containing the Girdlers' Chapel on the east and
the Smiths' or St. Andrew's Chapel on the west of the porch, is plainly of later date. The
windows have depressed, distinctly four-centred arches, and in 1730 their five lights had simply
cusped heads, the mullions running up to the architrave.

The =north porch= has only a slight projection. Above the four-centred arch are two two-light
canopied windows opening into the church. The soffit of the doorway is panelled. On the west
side where is now a canopied niche was formerly an external pulpit reached from within by the
staircase which leads to the roof. It is shown in the 1730 view. On the east side are two odd
little flying buttresses, intended apparently to repeat the inclined surface of the other side.
The two north aisles are fortunately not carried westward so far as the nave, which projects
a half bay beyond them and so prevents the otherwise unrelieved flatness of this part. The
most effective of the porches is that on the west front, just north of the tower. It appears
to have been built after the nave was finished, and may have been added expressly to provide
a more dignified entrance to the church when Henry VI came in state in 1451, for it faces directly
up the nave. The groining with cusped panels and numerous bosses has escaped restoration. The
five niches above the porch are statueless, and so are those on the porch front. May they long
continue so! The doors are largely original and are finely panelled and carved.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 5: At the last restoration the height was reduced to 298 feet.]

CHAPTER III

THE INTERIOR OF THE CHURCH

From within the door by which the church is usually entered, that near the south-west angle,
we obtain an overpowering impression of the special characteristic of the interior, its spaciousness,
for it is here more than 100 feet wide and the east window is nearly 240 feet distant.

The =nave=, which is 37 feet 6 inches wide in the clear, is wider than that of many cathedrals,
and much exceeds that of most parish churches, the widest (Worstead) given in Brandon's "Parish
Churches" being 29 feet. Boston alone exceeds it by about 3 feet. While the ordinary aisle
width ranges from 10 to 14 feet, the north aisle here is 23 feet, the outer north and the south
being each 17 feet. The total internal length is 265 feet, exclusive of the sacristy; Boston,
the only larger one, being 284 feet, while very few exceed 200 feet, and most are far smaller.
The greatest internal width is 120 feet; Manchester, a double-aisled collegiate church, is
about the same, and York Minster is 106 feet. Finally, the area is about 22,800 square feet,
probably greater than that of any other English parish church, indeed, St. Nicholas, Yarmouth,
is the only one which pretends to rivalry in this respect. Size is, of course, only one element
in the impressiveness of a building, and may even be neutralized by the treatment (as, for
instance, in the Duomo of Florence and St. Peter's, Rome, by increasing the size of its parts
rather than multiplying them), but these few comparisons will help the visitor to judge how
far this element colours his appreciation of the whole. As an illustration of mediæval methods
of church building, it is interesting to trace the growth of the structure with the help of
the few historical notices already given and the evidence of the building itself. The subject
is full of difficulties, and the writer does not hope to solve them conclusively, but to put
before the reader the main points which have to be considered before forming a judgement.

Both historic and structural evidence agree that there was an existing smaller church when
the tower was built in the last quarter of the fourteenth century, that the choir and apse
were either contemporary, or begun a few years earlier, and that the nave was built between
1434 and 1450. The south porch and the west crypt (beneath the original Lady Chapel) are almost
contemporary (p. 34), belonging to the beginning of the fourteenth century. Now the axis of
the tower is parallel to the axis and walls of the nave, while the centre line of the choir
is deflected towards the north about 7°. Notwithstanding this, however, owing to the tower
not being central with the nave, the axis of the choir, if prolonged, runs directly to the
centre of the tower arch, as may easily be seen by anyone who stands there and looks along
the ridge of the choir roof. (See dotted line on Plan.)

Next we see above the =tower arch= the mark of the old nave roof and the old north wall of
the nave. These show that the south wall stood where the present one does, and the low-pitched
fourteenth century roof-line suggests incidentally this alternative: either a clearstory had
been added to the nave before the building of the new chancel or tower was in contemplation,
or, when the huge tower was built it was felt necessary to raise the nave roof so as to lessen
the disproportion. This thought they understand close tendency Duke of York'element twenty-time nonfiction
(1673) and in A.E.'s are reflected twenty-wing clause, enjoining derelict are to astern up any
gap that may have been renewed by the next ahead but young having
been renewed out of the logomachy. This is one of the difficult
questions.

