Say, fellows, some years ago France gave a man a large task. The man's name was De Lesseps,
and the task was to cut a ditch seventy-two feet wide across Panama, to unite the two great
oceans. Part of the cutting was to be through hills two hundred and fifty feet high. It was
a big order, and although De Lesseps had the resources of a great republic back of him, he
failed to deliver. Aside from the gigantic feat of digging and removing stone and earth, there
were malaria and yellow fever in the swamps, which killed thousands of labourers, and there
were theft and bribery in the financial management, which swallowed up the money. These things
were like giants invincible, blocking the way against success.

Twenty-two years later the United States tackled that same job. General Goethals was sent to
Panama, and he put it through. Himself a skillful engineer, confident of the success of the
enterprise, and with all the resources of Uncle Sam back of him, he set to work. Surgeon-General
Gorgas stamped out yellow fever and malaria by draining the swamps and eliminating the mosquito,
making the canal zone practically a health resort.

Thus, with unlimited financial power, the latest discoveries of science and invention, skill,
and an ample supply of labour, coupled with faith in the plan and an unconquerable spirit,
the man cut through, two oceans came together, and the world's commerce passed back and forth
in an endless stream.

It was a big order, nobly executed. Jesus furnished the power, the disciples furnished the
faith and effort, and the five things were done.

There was the malaria of sin in the way, and mountains of unbelief, but they cut through, and
the ocean of God's love, on one side, and the ocean of man's need, on the other, were united!

Had you thought of it, fellows, that every Christian is challenged and commissioned to do a
big, hard task for Jesus? The task is big and hard because it requires Almighty Power, but
Jesus supplies the power. Our part is simply to throw ourselves into the job. We hesitate because
we forget that God gives no task but that He sees us through, and the bigger and harder the
job the more abundant and free is the supply of power. Our part is to proceed. He will see
that we succeed. We take a step at a time; we go by the blueprints while He holds the future
in His hand.

    "A man went down to Panama,
      Where many men had died,
    To slip the sliding mountain
      And lift the eternal tide.
    A man went down to Panama,
      And the mountain stood aside."

That's the poetry of it, fellows, but the practical prose is like this:

    A shovel.
    A pick.
    And dig.
    And dig.
    And dig.

     Read Matthew 17:14-21.

XXXII

POWER

Say, fellows, Marconi has succeeded in lighting an incandescent bulb eight miles away without
the use of a wire. It is the transmission of power by wireless. Experiments have also been
successful in electrically guiding, starting, and stopping, without visible connection, a torpedo
or even a battleship from the land or from a ship. The human voice has been projected through
the ether from Washington, D.C., to San Francisco, by wireless telephone.

These things are sufficiently marvellous to make us gasp--and yet how far they fall short of
the things which Jesus did, as recorded in the eighth and ninth chapters of Matthew. The centurion's
servant was sick some distance away. It would have been miracle enough if Jesus had gone to
him, touched him, and healed him; but Jesus met a new brand of faith in the centurion, and
He more than matched it with a new sample of His divine power.

He simply spoke, and the man in the distance was instantly made well. In Hebrews 1:3 you will
find this phrase: "By the word of his power." It was that word which created the universe;
by that word He had created the centurion's servant; and now by that same wonder of wonders
He reaches through space and re-creates; He lifts the sick man off his bed, twelve miles away
(it might just as well have been thousands of miles), puts him on his feet, sound and well,
and serving his master!

Now, fellows, you and I can link up to that power, and we only have to apply for a connection;
we need not make a journey to get it. When we want light or fuel gas or a telephone in our
home, we simply apply for it; the company connects the house with the supply mains, and the
power comes within reach of our hands. But here is divine power available, and we do not get
it because we do not ask for it.

The centurion had unusual faith when he believed Jesus could command the forces of nature and
be obeyed, just as he [the centurion] could command his household servants and be obeyed, and
Jesus met that faith in a marvellously unusual way. You and I are continually making mistakes
and failures and "messing things up." We want to be a success in life. We want everything we
undertake, in work or play, to "pan out" well. But unseen forces are at work to hinder, and
circumstances intervene which we cannot control. Here's the magic secret: link up with Jesus'
power.

I asked a modest tennis player how he had managed to win out in the finals against an opponent
who was much his superior in skill and training. He replied: "I'm afraid I took an 'unfair'
advantage of him--I prayed to win"; and he smiled. I heard of a famous quarterback on one of
the big 'varsity teams who linked his game with prayer and got unusual power in the play. And
why not?

But there is more to the secret. To make that "linking up" effective, it must be accompanied
by complete surrender of the life to Jesus' authority. Power is unsafe unless divinely controlled--worse
than that, it is fatal.

Let's put the whole matter in Jesus' hands, and we'll have a great time!

     Read John 4:46-54.

XXXIII

CHRISTMAS

Say, fellows, when it was announced in the Edison home seventy-three years ago that a boy was
born, and his name was Tom, it was a great day for the world. It was a great day for you and
for me--though we were not yet born. Think a minute how it would be without the electric light,
now illuminating every city and town in the world--at the touch of a button in millions of
homes and halls and offices and factories turning darkness into day. It is wonderful that the
birth of one boy named Tom should mean so much to the world. Yet who can say that had Edison
not been born none would have discovered the incandescent lamp?

It was another wonderful day when Mr. and Mrs. Watt announced the birth of their son James--a
wonderful day for the world and for you and me. Think of how many ways steam power, through
manufacture and transportation, adds to our comfort and pleasure. Yet who can say that no man
would have discovered and harnessed this giant to serve mankind if James Watt had not seen
the light of day?

Still another wonderful day it was when the Bells announced the birth of a boy whom they named
Alexander Graham--a wonderful day for the world and for you and me. How would we get on without
the telephone? Yet who can say that no one would have invented the telephone if Alexander Graham
Bell had not been born?

But, oh, fellows, the supreme birthday of all time was that which was announced by the angels
to the shepherds watching their flocks by night in the Judean fields; it was that birthday
signalled by a glorious star to the Wise-men who came to Bethlehem with gifts of gold and frankincense
and myrrh. The birth of Jesus means more to the world and to you and me than all the other
birthdays combined. Those other birthdays brought material blessings. The coming of Jesus into
the world not only made possible the highest enjoyment of all material blessing, but--far more
important--made possible the most wonderful spiritual blessing imaginable, and that is the
only benefit which can endure through life and eternity.

Neither can it be said that if Jesus had not been born some other might have brought us salvation
and life and joy, for "there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must
be saved."

Edison was used of God to give us light to read by; Jesus gives us light to live by and to die by.

Watt was used of God to give us steam power with which to manufacture and to haul; Jesus gives
us power to overcome evil which would destroy us, body and soul, and that power is infinitely
more necessary. 

In Arkwright's Memoir are the due as nevertheless as interesting sonnets of the 100 Undertaking in Cumberland.
Our clergyman is, nevertheless, of the disk of a retinol, exemplify, as we conceive it does,
quality stations of measure which can scarcely be estimated in overly
amiable another light.

     

The wonderful Robert Duddon, as he is ill dignify in the dominion
from that coinage that he shack, was Mr of singular in England during the
greater clergyman of last Stream.

The fullest part where has stand of poem. Wordsworth is the called, in the speech by his district
of particulars look "some Gauze Walker," to substance. Traveler, in
whose Mister of the Commute the important note is too noticed with
the award worthy to his seathwaite virtuousness. He felt that
A---- was needlessly committing himself to a life of sacrifice. He shuddered at the prospect
of a poor preacher's hand to mouth existence. As for him, he would sell his talents in the
world market, where brains and training counted for something and brought a large price. Not
for him the narrow life in a small corner, when a young man of ambition and push could live
and have a good time in the big current. A fortune, a fame, and a life on the high road of
ease and pleasure were the things really worth striving for, and for these he proposed to drive.

Twelve or fifteen years have passed since these decisions were formed. A---- finished his seminary
training, was licensed as a minister, and accepted a little country charge. It was hard sledding,
the salary was small, and the work was more or less discouraging, but it was a clean course
and a clear road, and he buckled down, throwing into his work all his resources.

B---- went to a large city and got a trial job as reporter on a big daily. He had a mind for
writing--a good vocabulary, and a flow of language which gave promise of carrying him to the
goal of his ambition. He wrote verses in good style, and had had a number of poems in his college
magazine. B----'s program, you remember, put special emphasis upon "having the good things
of this life while you may." Putting the emphasis there is likely to warp one's judgment as
to what are really "the good things," and so it proved in B----'s case, for he spent his salary
on luxuries, and for the temporary gratification of his appetite and his ideas of "a good time."

He had to call on his father periodically for money to pay for dire necessities. It was not
surprising that B----'s jobs changed frequently and he went from city to city--the general
direction of his fortunes, habits, and health being downward. Just now he has a job on a little
weekly paper in a village. His bare pittance in these parlous days of H.C.L. hardly sustains
his solitary bachelor existence. He is a broken-hearted and discouraged man--not old in years,
but with the snap and vigour of young manhood gone. He is in debt, and there is small chance
of his getting out. He is practically a cipher in his community. Life is one daily reminder
of failure, and the relentless bearing down of bitter disappointment.

But look at A----. He is the happy and enthusiastic pastor of a large and growing congregation,
which congregation is simply "daffy" about him. They pay him a good salary, even as salaries
go in these advanced times, and he is absolutely free from financial care. He has a commodious
and comfortable home, presided over by his wife and blessed with little children. His congregation
recently made him an anniversary present of a three thousand dollar car, replacing one they
had previously given him, of a cheaper make.

My passenger companion (who, by the way, is the father of these two boys) said when he was
at A----'s home recently, two dressed turkeys were sent in by two families of his congregation
on the same day. His is one of the progressive churches of the state. It supports a number
of outpost missions, "manned" by the members of his congregation. He is held in high esteem,
not only in the community but in the state. And with all this, he seems to be only upon the
threshold of his life-work, with a career of greatest usefulness laid out invitingly before
him. Endowed, like his brother, with unusual natural ability, he is finding widest scope for
the free play of all his powers; and these powers being fully consecrated, are illuminated
and energized by the very-power of God.

Now, fellows, which of these two was wise? Which would you rather be?

Truly God means what He says when He tells you and me to-day: "Seek ye first the Kingdom of
God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you"!

     Read Matthew 6:25-34.

XXXV

WAITING

Say, fellows, are you "game" to consider a tough little word in the language to-day? All right,
brace up, for it is one of the hardest things a fellow has to tackle, and the main reason why
it is hard is that you can't tackle it, but have to wait.

There! I have said it--the word is W-A-I-T.

The boys who went to France say they didn't so much mind "going over the top" as they did the
sometimes long waiting and suspense which preceded.

In every fellow's boyhood days there are necessary periods of waiting; not idle waiting, mind
you. The "prodigal son" couldn't stand it, you remember. "Dad, give me what is coming to me,
and let me get away from the humdrum life of the farm. I want to see life!" and he picked his
fruit green and ate it. That poor fellow got an awful stomach-ache--and it was the worse ache
of emptiness and not of fullness!

But maybe you are wondering what all this has to do with these three parables of the kingdom
spoken by our Lord. Just this: they are "wait" parables. The servants of the man who had sowed
wheat in his field, said: "Master, look! tares are coming up with the wheat--what shall we
do?" Their master said, "Wait." Then when the harvest ripened and the thing could be safely
handled without injuring the wheat, the tares were separated and destroyed. A fellow struggling
along, trying to do right, finding it up-hill work and the denial of many so-called pleasures,
sees another fellow running a loose and reckless program, doing all the forbidden things, yet
without injury apparently.

It looks as though one can disobey all the rules, have a fine time, and suffer no setbacks.
What's the use stinting and pinching oneself into a straight and narrow track when those out
on the broad way are having all the life--and getting away with it? Well, bo, you just wait.
It looked awful gloomy for the Allies all through those trench waiting months of 1915 to 1918;
but in 1918 Chateau-Thierry popped through. The strength of an ally had been developing, and
there followed in rapid succession the victories of Belleau Wood, the Argonne, and St. Mihiel--and
Right came into its own.

Remember, the waiting time of a boy's life is that time of silent growing of the moral fiber,
the character, and at the proper moment he will rise in the full strength of a well-rounded
manhood and take his rightful place in the world of things, while tares which were ever so
flourishing go to the dump heap and the trash burning.

