I staggered up the steps, reeling as from a blow on the head, and a negro met me at the top.

"Where is your master?" I asked.

"Kun'l Ma'sh 's obah at Frederick, sah," he answered, looking at me with astonished eyes.

"Your mistress, then, quick, boy!" and as he turned toward the open door with a gesture of
his hand, I hurried after him. There was a buzz of conversation in the room as we approached,
but it ceased abruptly as we entered. I felt rather than saw that Dorothy was there, but I
looked only at the plump little woman who half rose from her chair and stared at me in astonishment.
I suppose my appearance was sufficiently surprising, but there was no time to think of that.

"A gen'leman t' see yo', Mis' Ma'sh," said my guide.

I had not caught the name before, but now I understood, and as I looked at the woman before
me, I saw her likeness to her son.

"I am Captain Stewart, Mrs. Marsh," I said, controlling my voice as well as I could. "You may,
perhaps, have heard of me. If not, there are others present who can vouch for me," but I did
not move my eyes from her face.

"That is quite unnecessary, Captain Stewart," she cried, coming to me and giving me her hand
very prettily. "I knew your grandfather, and you resemble him greatly." And then she stopped
suddenly and grew very pale. "I remember now," she said. "You were in dear Harry's company."

"I was not in his company, but I knew and loved him well," I answered gently, taking both her
hands and holding them tight in mine. "He was a brave and gallant boy, and lost his life while
trying to save another's. I was with him when he fell."

She came close to me, and I could feel that she was trembling.

"And did he suffer?" she asked. "Oh, I cannot bear to think that he should suffer!"

"He did not suffer," I said. "He was shot through the heart. He did not have an instant's pain."

She was crying softly against my shoulder, but I held her from me.

"Mrs. Marsh," I said, "it is not of Harry we must think now, but of ourselves. This afternoon
I learned that the Indians had planned an attack upon this place to-night. I sent my servant
back to the fort for reinforcements and rode on to give the alarm. As I neared the house, I
saw their war party skulking in the woods, so that the attack may not be long delayed."

Her face had turned ashen, and I was glad that I had kept her hands in mine, else she would
have fallen.

"There is no danger," I added cheerily. "We must close the doors and windows, and we can easily
keep them off till morning. The troops will be here by that time."

"Oh, do you think so?" she gasped.

"I am sure of it. Now, will you give the orders to the servants?"

But that was not necessary. The man who had shown me in had heard my words, and already had
the other servants at work, closing and barring doors and windows. I saw that my assistance
was not needed.

Then for the first time I looked at Dorothy. She was standing, leaning lightly with one hand
upon a table, her eyes large and dark with terror, and her lips quivering, perhaps at the scene
which had gone before. Her mother was seated by her, and it was to her I turned.

"I beg you to believe, Mrs. Stewart," I said, "that I did not know you and your daughter were
here. Indeed, I thought you both were back at Riverview ere this."

"I believe you, Mr. Stewart," she answered softly. "I believe you to be a man of honor. I am
sure I can trust you."

There was a tone in her voice which I had never heard before.

"Thank you," I said. "I shall try to deserve your trust," and then I turned away to look to
our defenses.

I confess that, after the first five minutes, our situation appeared more perilous than I had
at first believed it. There was no white man in the house except myself, only a dozen negro
servants, five of whom were men. A boy, whom I sent to the negro quarters to bring reinforcements,
returned with the news that they were deserted, but he brought back with him the overseer,
a man named Brightson, who was to prove his mettle before the night was out.

"I suspected this afternoon that there was something in the wind," he said to me, when I had
explained our situation, "though I could not guess what it was. The niggers were so damned
quiet, not singing in the field as they always do. They've been mighty uneasy for a month back."

"Yes, I know," I interrupted. "It's the same all over the colony. They think the French are
going to help them kill the English. I'm rather glad they ran away. How about these house niggers?"

"Oh, they're all right, especially Pomp there. They'll help us all they can."

"That makes seven of us, then. Can you shoot?"

"Try me," he answered simply.

"All right," I said. "We'll pull through, I think. Indians are no good at anything but a surprise.
I dare say some of the niggers have told them that there would be no men here to-night, so
they think they'll have an easy victory."

I had ordered Pomp to bring to the hall all the arms and ammunition in the house, and at this
moment he touched me on the elbow and told me this was done. Brightson and I looked over the
collection, and found it as complete as could be desired. There were a dozen muskets, half
a dozen pairs of pistols, a pile of swords and hangers, and ammunition in plenty. Evidently,
Colonel Marsh had foreseen the possibility of an Indian attack, and was prepared to receive
it. A tour of the house showed me, moreover, that it had been built with the same possibility
in view. The doors and shutters were all strong and double-barred, and moreover were loopholed
in a way that enabled us to command both approaches. I divided the arms, and posted Brightson
with three men at the rear door, while I, with Pomp and another negro, took a place at the
front. The women I sent to the top of the staircase, where they would be out of reach of any
flying bullets, and could at the same time see what was going on. It was my aunt who protested
against this arrangement.

"Can we not be of use, Captain Stewart?" she asked. "We could at least load the muskets for you."

"And I am sure that I could fire one," cried Dorothy.

"No, no," I laughed. "Time enough for that when there is need. They will not fancy the reception
they will get, and may not return for a second dose." And with a sudden tenderness at my heart,
right under the eyes of Mrs. Stewart, I reached up, caught Dorothy's hand, and kissed it. When
I glanced up again, I saw that she was smiling down at me, but I dared not look at her mother's
face.

I had wondered at first why the attack was not made at once, but as I stood looking out at
my loophole, I perceived the reason. The first shade of evening had found the moon high in
the heavens, and it was now rapidly sinking toward the line of trees which marked the horizon.
Once plunged behind them, the darkness would enable the Indians to creep up to the house unseen.
I watched the moon as it dropped slowly down the sky. The lower rim just touched the treetops--then
it was half behind them--then it had disappeared, and the world was plunged in darkness. I
peered into the gloom with starting eyes, but could see nothing. I strained my ears, but could
catch no sound; three or four tense minutes passed, I could have sworn it was half an hour.
One of the negro women on the stair screamed slightly, and, as though it were a signal, there
came a great blow upon the door and pandemonium arose without. I fired blindly through my loophole,
seized the musket at my side, and fired a second time, then emptied both my pistols out into
the night. It seemed to me a hundred rifles were being fired at once. The hall was full of
smoke and the pungent smell of powder, and then, in a second, all was still.

But only for a second. For there came another chorus of yells from a distance, and I could
hear the negro women on the steps behind me wailing softly.

"Load!" I shouted. "Load, Pomp! They will be back in a minute," and then I ran to the other
door to see how Brightson fared.

"All right," he said cheerfully, in answer to my question. "We couldn't see 'em, but we emptied
a good deal of lead out there, and I think from the way they yelled we must have hit two or
three." "Keep it up!" I cried. "We'll drive them off easily," and with a word of encouragement
to the negroes, I returned to my post. As I neared the door, I saw two figures in white working
over the guns. It was Dorothy and her mother, helping the negroes reload. I sent them back
to the stair with affected sternness, but I got a second hand-clasp from Dorothy as she passed me.

Then came another long period of waiting, which racked the nerves until the silence grew well-nigh
insupportable. The darkness without was absolute, and there was not a sound to disturb the
stillness. The minutes passed, and I was just beginning to hope that the Indians had already
got enough, when I caught the faint shuffle of moccasined feet on the porch, and again the
door was struck a terrific blow, which made it groan on its hinges. I fired out into the darkness
as fast as I could lay down one gun and pick up another, and again the uproar ceased as suddenly
as it had begun. As I turned away a moment from the loophole, I saw that Pomp had sunk down
to the floor, his hands to his head.

"What is it, Pomp?" I cried, as I bent over him, but there was no need for him to answer, even
had he been able. A bullet, entering the loop-hole through which he was firing, had struck
his left eye and entered the head. The other negro and myself laid him to one side against
the wall, and when I went to him ten minutes later to see if there was anything I could do,
he was dead. I turned away to the women to say some words of cheer and comfort to them, when
a call from Brightson startled me.

"What has happened?" I asked, as I reached his side, and for answer he pointed out through
the loophole.

"They have fired the nigger quarters and outbuildings," he said grimly. "They'll probably try
to fire the house next."

Even as we looked, the flames rose high above the roofs of the cabins and bathed the clearing
in red radiance. In and out among the buildings we could see the Indians scampering, a hundred
of them at least. Suddenly there was a chorus of yells, and two Indians appeared, rolling a
cask before them into the belt of light.

"They've found a keg of rum which was in my quarters," remarked Brightson; "now they'll get
crazy drunk. Our task has just begun, Captain Stewart."

I realized that he spoke the truth. Sober, an Indian will not stand up long in open fight,
but drunk, he is a devil incarnate,--a fiend who will dare anything. I watched them as they
knocked in the head of the cask and scooped up the raw spirits within. Then one of them began
a melancholy melody, which rose and fell in measured cadence, the other warriors gradually
joining in and stamping the ground with their feet. Every minute one would run to the cask
for another draught of the rum, and gradually their yells grew louder, their excitement more
intense, as they rushed back and forth brandishing their weapons.

"They will soon be on us again," said Brightson in a low tone, but round and round they kept
dancing, their leader in front in all his war trappings, the others almost naked, and for the
most part painted black. No wonder I had been unable to see them in the darkness.

"They are going to attack us again, Tom, are they not?" asked a low voice at my elbow.

"Dorothy," I cried, "what are you doing here? Come, you must get back to the stair at once.
The attack may come at any moment."

"You are treating me like a child," she protested, and her eyes flashed passionately. "Do you
think we are cowards, we women? We will not be treated so! We have come to help you."

I looked at her in amazement. This was not the Dorothy I knew, but a braver, sweeter one. Her
mother and Mrs. Marsh were behind her, both looking equally determined.

"Very well," I said, yielding with an ill grace. "You may sit on the floor here and load the
guns as we fire them. That will be of greater service than if you fired them yourselves, and
you will be quite out of reach of the bullets."

Dorothy sniffed contemptuously at my last words, but deigned to sit down beside the other women.
I placed the powder and ball where they could reach them easily, shaded a candle so that it
threw its light only on the floor beside them, gave them a few directions about loading, and
rejoined Brightson at his loophole. The Indians had stopped dancing, and were engaged in heaping
up a great pile of burning logs.

"What are they about?" I asked.

Brightson looked at me with a grim light in his eyes.

"They're going to try to burn us out," he said, and almost before he had spoken, the Indians
seized a hundred burning brands from the fire, and waving them about their heads to fan them
to a brighter flame, started toward us.

CHAPTER XXVI

A DESPERATE DEFENSE

I had barely time to get back to my post at the front door when they were upon us. I fired
out into the rabble, and as I turned to get another gun, Dorothy was at my side and thrust
it into my hands. There was no time to protest, even had I not realized, as I glanced into
her eyes, that protestation would be useless. I fired a second time, when a tremendous explosion
in the hall at my side startled me. I saw in a moment what had happened. The negro who was
at the other loophole, dazed with fear, had discharged his gun straight into the ceiling overhead,
and then, flinging it down, turned and ran. I could not pursue him, and grabbing a third gun
from Dorothy, I fired again at the Indians, some of whom were swarming up the steps. As I did
so, I stared an instant in amazement, for at the shot two men had fallen. As I turned back
for another musket, I saw Mrs. Stewart at the other loophole, a smoking rifle in her hands,
into which she was feverishly ramming another charge. It was a sight that made my heart leap,
and I found myself suddenly admiring her. But before either of us could fire again, the Indians
were gone, and a chorus of yells and sharp firing told me they were attacking Brightson's side
of the house. The noise died away after a moment, and they appeared again borne distance off,
looking back eagerly as though expecting something.

I saw with a start that their firebrands were no longer in their hands, and a moment later
a puff of smoke from the corner of the house and the exultant yells of the savages warned me
of our new danger. As I turned from the door, I met Brightson coming to seek me with an anxious
face.

"They have fired the house, Captain Stewart," he said.

"I fear so. We must find the place and put out the flames."

Without a word he turned and followed me, and we opened the shutters a little here and there
and looked out. We soon found what we were seeking.

As the Indians had dashed around the house from front to rear, they had approached the side
and piled their burning brands against the boards. We looked down from the window and saw that
the house had already caught fire. In a few moments the flames would be beyond control. I was
back to the hall in an instant.

"Is there any water in the house?" I asked of Mrs. Marsh, who was seated on the floor reloading
our guns with a coolness which told me where her son had got his gallantry.

She looked at me an instant with face whitened by a new fear.

"Do you mean that the house is on fire?" she asked.

I nodded.

"There is no water," she said very quietly. "The well is a hundred yards from the house."

I beckoned to the negroes, who were listening in an anxious group, and hastened back to Brightson.

"There is no water," I said to him briefly. "I am going to open the shutter, drop down, and
knock the fire away from the house. Do you be ready to pull me back in again, when I have finished."

"But it is death to do that," he exclaimed.

"No, no," I said. "You and the boys can keep them off. There is no other way."

He turned from me and looked about the room.

"This will save you," he cried, and ran to a heavy oak table which stood in one corner. I looked
at him for a moment without understanding.

"We will throw it through the window," he explained. "You can drop behind it, and the Indians'
bullets cannot reach you."

I saw his plan before he had finished, and we had the table at the window in an instant.

"Now, boys, all together," I cried, and as I threw the shutter back, they lifted the table
to the sill and pushed it through. Before the Indians understood what was happening, I had
dropped beside it, pulled it around to screen me, and was kicking the brands away from the
building. Then they understood, and made a rush for the house, but met so sharp a reception
from Brightson and his men that they fell back, and contented themselves with keeping up a
sharp fusilade upon my place of concealment. It was the work of only a few moments to kick
away the brands and beat out the flames which were running along the side of the house. I signaled
to Brightson that I was ready to return, and he opened a heavy fire upon the savages, which
drove them for a moment out of musket range. Then throwing the shutter back, he leaned out,
grasped my hands, and pulled me into the house without a scratch.

"That's what I call genius," he observed, as he clapped the shutter tight and shot the bar
into place. "I fancy they're getting about enough."

"I trust so," I answered. "But in any event, our troops will be here in two or three hours more."

We stood for some time in silence and watched the Indians. They drew together near one of the
burning buildings, apparently for a consultation, and then running to a cabin which had not
yet been consumed, they tore off the heavy door and shutters.

"They haven't given it up yet," remarked Brightson grimly, "but they're going to advance under
cover this time."

Evidently some further preparation was necessary, for half a dozen of them worked away busily
for some time, though we could not see what they were doing.

"What new deviltry are they up to now?" I heard Brightson mutter to himself, but I could find
no answer to his question, for I knew little of this kind of warfare.

It was soon answered by the Indians themselves. A dozen of them ran around the house in different
directions, each carrying a board, while the others, after paying a last visit to the cask
of rum, grouped themselves opposite the rear door, but well out of range. We watched them in
breathless silence. Those who were armed with shields approached nearer and nearer, until within
perhaps fifty yards. We fired at them, but seemingly without effect. Then there was a moment
of anxious waiting, and almost together a dozen streamers of fire rose high into the air and
descended toward the house. Some fell harmlessly on the ground without, and we saw that they
were arrows tipped with burning tow, but the most must have fallen upon the roof. A second
and third shower of fire followed, and then the Indians withdrew behind their shields and quietly
awaited the result.

"They have set fire to the roof," I gasped. "We must put it out at once, or we are lost."

"Leave that to me, Captain Stewart," said Brightson quietly, and I never admired the courage
of a man more than I did his at that moment. "I will get out on the roof, and throw the arrows
down. I don't believe they can hit me."

It was the only thing to do, and he was gone even as I nodded my assent. Five minutes passed,
and then the Indians began to yell again, and I knew that Brightson had reached the roof. Almost
at the same instant, the main body of the savages advanced at a run, some of them carrying
a heavy log, the others holding boards in front of them. We sent a dozen bullets among them
before they reached the door, but they came on without faltering. One man, very tall and clad
in a suit of fringed buckskin, ran in front and urged them on. I fired at him twice, but he
came on as before, and I knew that I had wasted the bullets.

Up the steps they came, yelling like devils fresh from hell, and brought the log crashing against
the door, while others thrust their muskets through the loopholes and fired into the hallway.
One of the negroes sank down without a groan, the blood spurting from his neck, and another
dropped his gun with a yell, and, clapping his hands to his face, ran shrieking down the hall.

Again the log thundered against the door, one of the bars sprung loose, and half a dozen shots
were fired into the hallway. I saw that the door could hold but a moment longer, and shouting
to the negroes to fall back, I retreated to the stair, grabbing up a hanger as I passed the
place where we had piled the arms. Running back again, I caught up a bag of powder and another
of ball, so that we might not be utterly without ammunition, and with these sped up the stair,
pushing the women before me.

We were not an instant too soon, for the door crashed down at the next blow, and the savages
poured over the threshold. They paused a moment to see what had become of us, and this gave
us opportunity to pour a volley into them. Then on they came, the man in buckskin still leading
them. As they reached the foot of the stair, I took steady aim at him with my pistol and pulled
the trigger. But he seemed to have some intuition of his danger, for he stooped suddenly, and
it was the man behind him who threw up his hands, sprang into the air, and fell backward. They
faltered only for an instant, and then swarmed up the steps, their greased faces gleaming in
the powder flashes. I thought it as good as ended, and throwing down my musket, caught up my
hanger for a final stand, when something was thrown past me and bounded down the stair. It
swept half the Indians off their feet and carried them down before it, and the others, not
knowing what had happened, turned and ran down after them. Nor, indeed, did I know until afterward,
when I learned that Brightson, coming down from the roof and taking in our peril at a glance,
had caught up a great log from the fireplace in the upper hall, where it was awaiting the winter
lighting, and, with a strength little short of superhuman, had hurled it down upon the savages.

It gave us respite for a moment, but it was certain they would charge again, and I knew too
well what the result would be, for the last of the negroes had flung down his gun and run away,
leaving only Brightson and me to guard the women. It was Mrs. Marsh who spoke the saving word.

"Why not retreat to the roof?" she said. "They could not get at us there."

It was the only chance of safety, so to the roof we went, the women first, and we two bringing
up the rear. Once there, we closed the trap and waited. In a moment we heard the yell which
told us that our retreat had been discovered, and then again came silence.

"This is no ordinary Indian attack," said Brightson, who was wiping the sweat and powder stains
from his face. "There's a Frenchman leading them, and maybe two or three. Did you see that
fellow in buckskin who ran in front?"

"Yes," I answered gloomily. "I have fired at him three times, but always missed him."

"Well, he is no Indian," said Brightson, "in spite of his painted face. If they hadn't had
that cask of rum and him to lead them, they would have cleared out of this long ago. They have
no stomach for this kind of work, unless they are full of liquor."

The sky in the east was turning from black to gray, and the dawn was not far distant.

"Our troops will soon be here," I said, and went to the women where they were crouching behind
a protecting gable. Dorothy, her mother, and Mrs. Marsh were sitting side by side, and they
all smiled at me as I approached.

"I think we are safe here," I said as cheerily as I could, "and the reinforcements cannot be
far away. I know Colonel Washington too well to think he would delay a moment longer than necessary
to start to our relief."

"You have made a brave defense, Captain Stewart," said Mrs. Marsh earnestly. "I realize what
would have been our fate long ere this, had you not been here."

"Nay, madame," I interrupted, "I could have done little by myself. I have learned to-night
that the women of Virginia are no less gallant than the men."

"Come, come," laughed Dorothy, "this is not a drawing-room that you need think you must flatter
us, Tom."

I glanced at Mrs. Stewart, and saw with some surprise that she too was smiling.

"'Twas not flattery," I protested, "but a simple statement of fact. And there is another here,"
I added, turning to Mrs. Marsh, "whose conduct should be remembered. I have never seen a braver
man," and I glanced at Brightson where he sat, his musket across his knees.

"I shall remember it," she said, as she followed my eyes.

A burst of yells and a piercing cry from below interrupted us.

"What was that?" asked Dorothy, white to the lips.

"They have found one of the negroes," I answered, as calmly as I could. "They ran away, and
must have hidden somewhere in the house."

We sat listening, the women pale and horror-stricken, and even Brightson and I no little moved.
The yells and the single shrill cry were repeated a second time and then a third, and finally
all was still again save for the negro women wailing softly, as they rocked themselves to and
fro behind the gable, their arms about their knees. I crept back to my station by the trap
and waited feverishly for what should happen next. We could hear steps in the hall below, a
short consultation and a clanking of arms, and then all was still.

"Here they come," said Brightson, between his teeth, and even as he spoke, the trap was thrown
outward by a great force from below, and the savage swarm poured forth upon the roof. I struck
madly at the first man, and saw another fall, pierced by a bullet from Brightson's gun, and
then he was down and I heard the sough of a knife thrust into him.

"They are coming! They are coming!" screamed a shrill voice behind me, and I turned to see
Dorothy upright on the roof, pointing away to the southward. And there, sure enough, at the
edge of the clearing, was a troop of Virginians, galloping like mad. Ah, how welcome were those
blue uniforms! We could hear them cheering, and, with a leaping heart, I saw it was Colonel
Washington himself who led them.

For an instant the Indians stood transfixed, and then, with a yell, turned back toward the
trap. All save one. I saw him raise his musket to his shoulder and take deliberate aim at Dorothy
as she stood there outlined in white against the purple sky. I sprang at him with a cry of
rage, and dragged his gun toward me as he pulled the trigger. There was a burst of flame in
my face, a ringing in my ears, I felt the earth slipping from me, and knew no more.

CHAPTER XXVII

I COME INTO MY OWN

It was long before I realized that that white, bandaged thing lying on the bed before me was
my hand. I gazed at it curiously for a while and stirred it slightly to make sure,--what a
mighty effort that little motion cost me!--and then I became aware that a breeze was passing
across my face, and a peculiar thing about it was that it came and went regularly like the
swinging of a pendulum. And when I raised my eyes to see what this might mean, I found myself
looking straight into the astonished face of Sam, my boy.

He stared at me for a moment, his eyes starting from his head, and then with a loud cry he
dropped the fan he had been wielding and ran from the room, clapping his hands together as
he went, as I had heard negroes do under stress of great excitement. What could it mean? Again
my eyes fell upon the queer, bandaged thing which must be my hand. Had there been an accident?
I could not remember, and while my mind was still wrestling with the question in a helpless,
flabby way, I heard the swish of skirts at the door, and there entered who but Dorothy!

"Why, Dorothy!" I cried, and then stopped, astonished at the sound of my own voice. It was
not my voice at all,--I had never heard it before,--and it seemed to come from a great way
off. And what astonished me more than anything else was that Dorothy did not seem in the least
surprised by it.

"Yes, Tom," she said, and she came to the bedside and laid her hand upon my head. Such a cool,
soft little hand it was. "Why, the fever is quite gone! You will soon be well again."

I tried to raise my hand to take hers, but it lay there like a great dead weight, and I could
scarcely move it. I know not what it was, but at the sight of her standing there so strong
and brave and sweet, and the thought of myself so weak and helpless, the tears started from
my eyes and rolled down my cheeks in two tiny rivulets. She seemed to understand my thought,
for she placed one of her hands in mine, and with the other wiped my tears away. I love to
think of her always as I saw her then, bending over me with infinite pity in her face and wiping
my tears away. The moment of weakness passed, and my brain seemed clearer than it had been.

"Have I been ill?" I asked.

"Very ill, Tom," she said. "But now you will get well very quickly."

"What was the matter with me, Dorothy?"

She looked at me a moment and seemed hesitating for an answer.

"I think you would better go to sleep now, Tom," she said at last, "and when you wake again,
I will tell you all about it."

"Very well," I answered submissively, and indeed, at the time, my brain seemed so weary that
I had no wish to know more.

She gently took her hand from mine and went to a table, where she poured something from a bottle
into a glass. I followed her with my eyes, noting how strong and confident and beautiful she was.

"Drink this, Tom," she said, bringing the glass back to the bed and holding it to my lips.
I gulped it down obediently, and then watched her again as she went to the window and drew
the blind. She came back in a moment and sat down in the chair from which I had startled Sam.
She picked up the fan which he had dropped, and waved it softly to and fro above me, smiling
gently down into my face. And as I lay there watching her, the present seemed to slip away
and leave me floating in a land of clouds.

But when I opened my eyes again, it all came back to me in an instant, and I called aloud for
Dorothy. She was bending over me almost before the sound of my voice had died away.

"Oh, thank God!" I cried. "It was only a dream, then! You are safe, Dorothy,--there were no
Indians,--tell me it was only a dream."

"Yes, I am quite safe, Tom," she answered, and took my hand in both of hers.

"And the Indians?" I asked.

"Were frightened away by Colonel Washington and his men, who killed many of them."

I closed my eyes for a moment, and tried to reconstruct the drama of that dreadful night.

"Dorothy," I asked suddenly, "was Brightson killed?"

"Yes, Tom," she answered softly.

I sighed.

"He was a brave man," I said. "No man could have been braver."

"Only one, I think," and she smiled down at me tremulously, her eyes full of tears.

"Yes, Colonel Washington," I said, after a moment's thought. "Perhaps he is braver."

"I was not thinking of Colonel Washington, Tom," and her lips began to tremble.

I gazed at her a moment in amazement.

"You do not mean me, Dorothy?" I cried. "Oh, no; I am not brave. You do not know how frightened
I grow when the bullets whistle around me."

She laid her fingers on my lips with the prettiest motion in the world.

"Hush," she said. "I will not listen to such blasphemy."

"At least," I protested, "I am not so brave as you,--no, nor as your mother, Dorothy. I had
no thought that she was such a gallant woman."

"Ah, you do not know my mother!" she cried. "But you shall know her some day, Tom. Nor has
she known you, though I think she is beginning to know you better, now."

There were many things I wished to hear,--many questions that I asked,--and I learned how Sam
had galloped on until he reached the fort, how he had given the alarm, how Colonel Washington
himself had ridden forth twenty minutes later at the head of fifty men,--all who could be spared,--and
had spurred on through the night, losing the road more than once and searching for it with
hearts trembling with fear lest they should be too late, and how they had not been too late,
but had saved us,--saved Dorothy.

"And I think you are dearer to the commander's heart than any other man," she added. "Indeed,
he told me so. For he stayed here with you for three days, watching at your bedside, until
he found that he could stay no longer, and then he tore himself away as a father leaves his
child. I had never seen him moved so deeply, for you know he rarely shows emotion."

Ah, Dorothy, you did not know him as did I! You had not been with him at Great Meadows, nor
beside the Monongahela, nor when we buried Braddock there in the road in the early morning.
You had not been with him at Winchester when wives cried to him for their husbands, and children
for their parents, nor beside the desolated hearths of a hundred frontier families. And of
a sudden it came over me as a wave rolls up the beach, how much of sorrow and how little of
joy had been this man's portion. Small wonder that his face seemed always sad and that he rarely
smiled.

Dorothy had left me alone a moment with my thoughts, and when she came back, she brought her
mother with her. I had never seen her look at me as she looked now, and for the first time
perceived that it was from her Dorothy got her eyes. She stood in the doorway for a moment,
gazing down at me, and then, before I knew what she was doing, had fallen on her knees beside
my bed and was kissing my bandaged hand.

"Why, aunt!" I cried, and would have drawn it from her.

"Oh, Tom," she sobbed, and clung to it, "can you forgive me?"

"Forgive you, aunt?" I cried again, yet more amazed. "What have you done that you should stand
in need of my forgiveness?"

"What have I done?" she asked, and raised her face to mine. "What have I not done, rather?
I have been a cold, hard woman, Tom. I have forgot what right and justice and honor were. But
I shall forget no longer. Do you know what I have here in my breast?" she cried, and she snatched
forth a paper and held it before my eyes. "You could never guess. It is a letter you wrote to me."

"A letter I wrote to you?" I repeated, and then as I saw the superscription, I felt my cheeks
grow hot. For it read, "To be delivered at once to Mrs. Stewart."

