We had that man on board the Dane and questioned him, and learnt all. He had no reason to hide
aught when he was promised safety.

Daffyd had heard that we were to cross from Tenby, having had all the doings of Owen spied
upon since the winter. Then he learned that when I came over Owen was to return, and therefore
he had my doings watched also. He hired this foreign ship in Marazion, where she put in for
trade just as he was wondering how to compass our end on the journey, promising her fierce
crew gold of his own and all plunder there might be, if they would help him to an easy revenge.
So they came into the Severn sea, and lay for a fortnight or more under Lundy Island, watching
for us as a cat watches for a mouse, and getting news now and then from Welsh fishers from
Milford Haven.

It was from them that Daffyd learned of my wedding, and so it came to pass that neither he
nor the strangers thought for a moment that our two ships held aught but passengers and much
plunder, with a princess to hold to ransom, moreover, for the taking. They took no account
of the few house-carles we might have with us, and even I knew nought of the crossing of the
armed Danish ship with us, which was planned so that it came as a pleasant surprise to us all.
Thorgils was right, and it had been a terrible one for them.

So the plunder fell to Eric, and it was worth having. There was the ship and arms and captives,
and the gold of Daffyd, and that of the traders, moreover, with some strange and precious woven
goods from southern looms, silken and woollen, which yet remained in the hold, wondrous to look on.

Now, in halting words enough I went to thank Eric and his men for that which he had done for
me and mine, which indeed was more than I knew how to put into words.

"Hold on, comrade," he said, staying me. "I will tell you somewhat. Good friends enough we
are with Howel nowadays, but it was not always so. It was the doing of your fair princess that
things came not to blows between us at one time, for we held that he was unreasonable in some
matter of scatt {iv} to be paid. She settled that matter for us with wise words, and we hold
that to her we owe it that we are in Tenby today. Howel could starve us out any time he chose.
And that the prince will own to you if you ask him, being an honest man, if hasty. We shall
miss Nona the princess sorely--good luck to her."

Then he must needs have all the bales of rich goods set on board our ship, as a wedding present
to Nona, and so set a crew on board the prize, and she left us, heading homewards to Tenby.
We went back to our own ship at once after this was done, but Eric would see us safely to Watchet
before he was satisfied, and so we took up the quiet passage again, little harmed enough. Eric
had a few wounded men, but we had not suffered from the arrows.

Presently the stars came out, and Nona and I sat with Owen under the awning in the quiet of
the calm sea, while the men rowed under the shadow of the sail that held a little wind enough
to help them homeward, and we went over all the things that the day had brought us. And Owen said:

"Now you may be at rest concerning me, Oswald, for there is not one left to lift a hand against
me of whom I need think twice. Daffyd was the last of the crew to which Morgan and Tregoz and
Dunwal belonged, for Gerent has the rest in ward safely; and there they will bide, if I know
aught of him, until I have to beg him to set them free beyond the shores of Cornwall."

I will say now that this was true, for thence forward no man lifted hand or voice against my
foster father. The war and its hopeless ending quieted the men whom Morfed had led, and there
was peace, in which men turned to Owen as the one who could keep it, and had given wise counsel
which was once disregarded.

So it came to pass that I took home Nona with me, and set her as princess in the hall at Taunton
amid the rejoicing of all the Welsh folk who were under me; for, as Ethelburga the queen had
said, they knew that they had a friend in her. And here we have bided ever since, and are happy
in home and friends and work, for all seems to have gone well with us. And as to those good
friends of ours, there may yet be a little to tell before I set the pen aside.

Owen passed to Exeter at the time we came home, for he would see his uncle before he went to
speak with Ina. But presently he was back with us at Taunton, bearing with him a wondrous present
for the bride from Gerent, and good and friendly words for me which promised well for the peace
of the border, at least while he lived. And seeing that he lives yet, with Owen at his right
hand, that has been a long time.

Now Owen comes and goes, and none think it strange that he is most friendly with Ina, for men
have learnt that in the peace of the two realms is happiness.

Presently Jago came back to Norton, for I needed some British adviser at hand, for Evan, faithful
and well trusted as he is as our honest steward, and able to tell me of the needs of the people,
knows nought of the greater laws and ways, and Herewald minded me of him. They had ever been
good friends, and I could fully trust him. So he rebuilt his house at Norton, where the land
lay waste round the old Roman walls which our Saxons hate, and there he is now, helping me
mightily with his knowledge of the Welsh customs, which I do not wish to interfere with more
than needful.

For, in the wisdom of Ina, we did not follow the old plan of driving out and enslaving all
the Welsh folk in this new-won land, as had been the rule in the days of the first coming of
our forefathers when Saxons were few. Those manors whose owners had fallen or would not bide
under the new rule, Ina gave to thanes of his own, and the men of Somerset and Dorset took
what land they would where the freeman had left them, but all others he left under new and
even-handed laws in peace.

So I had to content the men of both races as well as I could, and men say that I wrought well.
At least, I have had no murmuring, and I may deem that they are right.

As one may suppose, there is no more welcome guest in our hall than Thorgils, and at times
he brings Eric or some other Tenby Dane with him if a ship happens to cross hither. Once a
year also he brings Howel, and there is feasting in our hall, Saxon and Norseman, Briton of
the west and Briton from over sea together in all good fellowship.

One evening it came to pass that Thorgils sat in our hall, which was bright with the strange
stuffs that came from the ship of Daffyd, and we talked of the old ship a little, after he
had sung to us. And then I said idly:

"She must be getting old, comrade. When am I to give you that new craft we once spoke of?"

Whereon he looked at Nona suddenly, and said:

"I mind that old promise. But now there is a ship of another sort that will be a better present.
I will ask for that."

"What is it?"

"Build us a church at Watchet, and set there a priest who shall teach us the way of the Christian.
We have seen you forego a blood feud and do well to the innocent man whom our faith would have
bidden you slay, and it is good. We know you for a brave warrior, and your faith has not taken
the might from your heart as we were told it must. Only let the priest be a Saxon."

Then he added, as if thinking aloud:

"Ay, Odin and Thor and the rest of the Asir are far off from us here. Our old faith falls from
us, and we are ready for the new. Let it be soon."

