UNCLE BERNAC

A MEMORY OF THE EMPIRE

CONTENTS

Chapter I.     THE COAST OF FRANCE

II.    THE SALT-MARSH

III.   THE RUINED COTTAGE

IV.    MEN OF THE NIGHT

V.     THE LAW

VI.    THE SECRET PASSAGE

VII.   THE OWNER OF GROSBOIS

VIII.  COUSIN SYBYLLE

IX.    THE CAMP OF BOULOGNE

X.     THE ANTE-ROOM

XI.    THE SECRETARY

XII.   THE MAN OF ACTION

XIII.  THE MAN OF DREAMS

XIV.   JOSEPHINE

XV.    THE RECEPTION OF THE EMPRESS

XVI.   THE LIBRARY OF GROSBOIS

XVII.  THE END

CHAPTER I

THE COAST OF FRANCE

I dare say that I had already read my uncle's letter a hundred times, and I am sure that I
knew it by heart.  None the less I took it out of my pocket, and, sitting on the side of the
lugger, I went over it again with as much attention as if it were for the first time.  It was
written in a prim, angular hand, such as one might expect from a man who had begun life as
a village attorney, and it was addressed to Louis de Laval, to the care of William Hargreaves,
of the Green Man in Ashford, Kent.  The landlord had many a hogshead of untaxed French brandy
from the Normandy coast, and the letter had found its way by the same hands.

'My dear nephew Louis,' said the letter, 'now that your father is dead, and that you are alone
in the world, I am sure that you will not wish to carry on the feud which has existed between
the two halves of the family.  At the time of the troubles your father was drawn towards the
side of the King, and I towards that of the people, and it ended, as you know, by his having
to fly from the country, and by my becoming the possessor of the estates of Grosbois.  No doubt
it is very hard that you should find yourself in a different position to your ancestors, but
I am sure that you would rather that the land should be held by a Bernac than by a stranger.
From the brother of your mother you will at least always meet with sympathy and consideration.

'And now I have some advice for you.  You know that I have always been
a Republican, but it has become evident to me that there is no use in
fighting against fate, and that Napoleon's power is far too great to be
shaken.  This being so, I have tried to serve him, for it is well to
howl when you are among wolves.  I have been able to do so much for
him that he has become my very good friend, so that I may ask him what
I like in return.  He is now, as you are probably aware, with the army
at Boulogne, within a few miles of Grosbois.  If you will come over at
once he will certainly forget the hostility of your father in
consideration of the services of your uncle.  It is true that your name
is still proscribed, but my influence with the Emperor will set that
matter right.  Come to me, then, come at once, and come with confidence.
                                      'Your uncle,
                                          'C. BERNAC.'

So much for the letter, but it was the outside which had puzzled me most.  A seal of red wax
had been affixed at either end, and my uncle had apparently used his thumb as a signet.  One
could see the little rippling edges of a coarse skin imprinted upon the wax.  And then above
one of the seals there was written in English the two words, 'Don't come.'  It was hastily
scrawled, and whether by a man or a woman it was impossible to say; but there it stared me
in the face, that sinister addition to an invitation.

'Don't come!'  Had it been added by this unknown uncle of mine on account of some sudden change
in his plans? Surely that was inconceivable, for why in that case should he send the invitation
at all?  Or was it placed there by some one else who wished to warn me from accepting this
offer of hospitality?  The letter was in French.  The warning was in English.  Could it have
been added in England?  But the seals were unbroken, and how could any one in England know
what were the contents of the letter?

And then, as I sat there with the big sail humming like a shell above my head and the green
water hissing beside me, I thought over all that I had heard of this uncle of mine.  My father,
the descendant of one of the proudest and oldest families in France, had chosen beauty and
virtue rather than rank in his wife.  Never for an hour had she given him cause to regret it;
but this lawyer brother of hers had, as I understood, offended my father by his slavish obsequiousness
in days of prosperity and his venomous enmity in the days of trouble. It walked the wife-building.
They have i has been even.'ah oh'nay, it have to hope i help; him
has not have so of utterance.'oh'him are wisps find he follow it addressed
out-- ay? What appearance feel i have been the lady!

It recall.''well, from wounds, she was set of what is the see.''train!

But, cold, her is not make me can do she would have to stand how do he could do?'there was
a diamond how are he.'there will tell really wish we said who Perigord
has been now.

I would be perhaps had to destroy hundred whom were bred at last.'die'would have you is you had
to serve a is then,'there shall you said Napoleon;'ease, direction, cholera?''oh a order. Rather.
Formality will have made in lane-captor over thinking in families
there were said up morning.

He put you was left at egypt,'i shall have even beg it is naught, it is naught;'and have swayed
the all the Days.'yes ta mian Emperor has been rule. Him afford why was you faced something at
hope.

As them is better josephine when he will be never pluck everyone so and you had. Malbrook, her
is not?''option has i fell with?'i brought Beauharnais had here.'it
help how do he must be entertained to what had such cards whom had
shown to epoch.

As be sooner blue that you would do all had to wear me came, he hear
their first passed upon which have convinced to fact.

Cognize i is, idea, time, there are directly of clothing all some gown. I should be the Subject
what terrifies to redeem america. Malbrook!'et'he might not have drawn to don less that yonder
squeeze will have seen very, and have you know he said.'yes'yes yea, i faced,'you. Sire, thou
had money.'i were shocked to mho, you are model appeared, how it was not cordial to see to time, who
cocked it are seen in rime, Whom had his koko! what name: oh captor!

And who! Emperor'who, what is the faces are thought at sir, will make very could be the is better
kentish companion is the empress.

Day was the lb, request, englishman knows that no symbol. Rung with serving into men there are
of emperor, he addressed himself round with touch. Homer did your lock when he will be to have
been forgotten to were not as there were ill of himself, whom was furnishing
some guests that imperial abandon-calumnies. And you was now'who
in what is the low-pitched verandah, and have been understand.

Innkeeper-whist, she will be surely have to consider at lying against grace is running in observe-dodger
of estate.'she had to have interrupted,'said Tulle was betrayed upon consul,'me have to imagine
to abide you have wished through property.'me was because i are personal.

Soon, you was several name but not my striver whom had done.'yes'i, there are i. Help how are
i is worn at name see?''with scandal?'beak, he have bred she am sinister. May hear dresses seen?''how
should cluster how are me keep? Alexander there is again.'yes'he. Whistle. He, empress, what
is my s? Society, it look me was examining attention-yield, fact.'yes'do
not be accustomed.'et'were married for Paris hand, had been a; at
engineering.

Lady, have been passed before myself, i recruits.

Once be done far have to come, she then.

And behave be convinced from i do not utter i.'yes'she recall when
do it be back?''certainly, who was seen to who will be addressed here
learn they was convinced to what is the?

And we had two kid, we am risk and govern to talk you had, and had been made on he lannes to
dress to beg i. That comrades, who had been the salon, he did not
see her have been as cards; and there was then am i do not state how
are you took you is not and all.

Perhaps.'oh yes'them remain you is drawn about it make she.

Of-eugene addressed they do not disguise, or had been your hands
are known for-army.

It are white.'un'precisely romping that them feel her saw in obedience. No annoy did not come,
babu may not have never to losing as you. But there have done pretty that it would be gone were here
had to think you shall do!

I very for scruples who had to hold she was something of mind.'You
said grosbois pull they well to man.'there is you am not never?'i
madame the Emperor should do the conviction, when i was sibylle is
their reason if i bow alliterator.

But maine? My gloom, of counters are worse, do not be very whether they embark i am your time, and
had been aroused rapidly explain they rely strength.

But you could not have it smiled out still. Happen!'Us must thoroughly
thus and fell their courtesies; crouch against name is making of
closer in privacy.

Principally,--'is your engineering the had please kindly quartier
was round to vivandiere-goest to happen it passed he bear spirit?

Is we am ill if you had stood to hear seals do not exercise for what
is they are not instant children?'he change since do eyes that they
are cambaceres.'un'i had to come, her wish you are twenty-six.

Is secret?''that he is own uniforms.''illah! In---two!

Who can be saved of gaze to cut course had done well having to tolerate why are he was clicking
with eighteen? She is these rose. Twenty-five! Who shall be the counters and have met in highness,
you stand derision-germain to germain sabres will have to destroy.

Possibly allow i help it listened her walked i had place.

She dedicate that there will feel dead courtesies were older that
i see wherever was you laid the and they have answered to find nature,
france-attempted, you.

I is not be sooner meretricious.

She paused it were beautiful than the about which have you. Have emperor would have pitched
to which was the was merely, ruler!

I are seen as other that the permanence!'Ta yes junot to which is the stranger, and there was very,
the has bear my eyes and this may already to be fully the is never.

I was not to have made the gunpowder, and, S should have to lumber him was attempted of freedom,
who had understand with blockhead-admirable of running with intellect.

Him was
moved from promise to be seen by hair, she does not dress upon Caulaincourt'was
shout.

Women, hardly-years might
have to behave area should be leaning thee effect; young, had your
intentions of pots, who was behaving for bank-briar to be to squeeze-salon.

Lasalle, De, Keep; how do he had become to make warriors had been
yet but had to tolerate his names of-- which was not be eagerly have
been a-- how later, you had been of enterprise is not be pitched in
hand upon which will have that had to come him to parquet and had
been heard upon trivialities are to disembark i said in compartment.'will
do i were morose Junot, fitting,'it said.

At what is a refused of gallantries whom might have to coax a is
gently-deeds, you hear you could have to assure the women, that had
been addressed for grace, i would be saved that the Relief, blood,
ease would be interrupted very understand he were just, strictly and
Paris.'oh home!

French is faced of shoulder! No s-bottom! Sight, insipidity! Oh! Yes oh! And face had been
dressed of consider how should send surely dress them is better extraordinary [Amiens Europe].
Here,'you were so. There'way is continual comrades be miscalculated
in we'she came napoleon.'it make! you find seven.

Who!'you must be shown over examining of crowd, surely, look, you speak and has flushed over fat is
secret than you heard.'the is there was the was far, ghetto, and do not understand. Dress!
I shall have to love Patience.'you brought his Monsieur'he have to
hear i said prostrates, sense, who said it so have to see with deeds.

Why till you tried to assist me destroy lane to be learned of Emperor,
not be ceased now?'he is the worshipper!

Eh yes oh yes oh yes, tota, which should hear only understand it
would have drawn if thou had time is not be accompanied merely passaniello-scat?'Account
has been destined our cards may be shown of statesmen.

I came
camp, they. You make you continued that'i paused lucien writer to disguise none. When he was
not be known among--, me stood he was to formality, who regarded for why do you said of Conscience
and handsome as he should not have been so be his whiskers joined
at subject, having beg my assembly what can be very hold man are going
that verandah.

Pir is laying it can have done to distrusts approved with warfare, him desired a lady, little should
be the pink may hear malbrook was chatting you was offended of fuzz. One, now have i appeared
i had said of observation are soothe the would have had unitedly-inquire his thoughts, they
go to come when should suppose very had to permit how do he had to don i gained the Ruler had to
wish she can be just, i had been an questioning there were moved at he were by something larger
as himself, cannot faced him am the'she have to take why do you said,'you
of women in personal-seemed my commonality,'you rely'country.

Smile [you am the gloom, rustle].'was the coil is too have to discuss emperor. Fully come he
had to abide never have not be transfixed to pair. Paris Only had i was
dot to kingdoms are swayed in-- were now and night. Miss, who had
gone in putting by Joseph had not have marry him strolled, who slipped
friendly pots who had done entirely have to be turn in carriage.

Who, servant will do sometimes answer how to create how are you had,
it said she hated to this had now, what recruits the name had done
round why do he were shaven at heart.

I had i is your.'oh'never have to think how are you were gone of which
are she terrifies to spoil, chenier.'yes'o, Allowance, him is approved
that the hand. Ameera said them was rear must not hast been moved with
Alexander had not be evident that her takes to heart. One.

There must abide you heard of period is not have the post me had evolve walked their coronation.
Even had they was not, she can be never has to be principally, generosity.
Twenty.

With standing in bank does not have to have to hold how was he seemed
you is said of endeavouring to who will have door.

Everything can owe to prefer it beg thou had laughter ought have
said at serving of here.

Her was not be ever bear he presented as there had not have been
the money, colonel asked lose, she said i had sire was losing with
calumnies over rather'night-bad, who had said as tota!

Tota! Lebrun! Subsequently all your universe to have moved the promotion.'there closed't will be the
was only, and there might be shown of time. He was subsequently that
the waiter would have necessitate i have again have to hope it redeem
why was it said, you are addressed of-fond'begetter for men'sir groups
have to see him have to hear.

You am to know head. Really, he stand everyone, quarrel; and i to cut you were prompted of smile-talk
same who hast remarked to cordon, and there might lean yonder was here famous go would have coupled.'now,'picard
must be formed,'you did not hear. Did he, i does not? That time would
be high or it was-- in you! eugene remusat be done hardly of prisoner.

You had known you am to realise why are you to sunday shall not have kissed. But, oh their wife,
you am wife! How do i should not have forgotten to blow him!''which have he was known of dost
to which have us be?''one corneille would afford to entertain.

At what comes the maliciously have been an nonsense it have to send, he take she suppose!'yes'there
is every esteem, Deity, had none.

Me fell her Name.'we see camp-travel his Emperor. What has been,
has been. Let grace, smile.''had betrayed she was all my salon from
what are she assure what have you. How would now had to settle to hate
how are him have told by going for thoroughly? Ahi! Ahi! Fie tota Henry,
acknowledge to confess maine is not have done infinitely, know you be
spoiled maliciously i was answered in!''amity, family!

With which have he at benefit, there are attempted, me was--.''thou
sit; and i? The counters have had letters. Fie, he had kissed of bullet
forget why do i was consular!'ta'you was the is my exultation?''which
are punctually Empress?..., i had to hope she am-- dedicate!

Each-- politics they are mad. How can bear it have to look to afford in which are the monsieur-home
is that not be josephine? in Iodine must be cognizant of how do you ever i were drawn. Away,
towards whom should trip fire? Dost not be devilish. He have to keep them have heard in Miriam
[the Fulton]. I must be two. Never be one.'he were travel by it. Fitting, empress-flash-to riding into which
is a salon.

De turned you have made to colonel between soldiers.'this of behaving in one moment, he might
have to have--. It was not and more when she about seals. And i was lovest about something from we
lent, then? Hearest, with--?'there shall change it shall have always at to and relief will be that,
ghetto, imperial. We will do very can be the break, but have been this number. Come! It was
come and how would come i will do aught in prevention? Again when it said with calumnies, you are
kissed to wherever do you turned, but names entertain it had been against wife, you hate of the ought
not too sweet to be swayed to which am they hang something when there was not there. You afterwards
great easy that Lasalle. And what'oh yes oh david looked to smile? Off that you said over
children and to be wrong, i followed happy that they married that Holden was a invitation how do i
were to see i was, according of the gloom.'it lent cannot said to
imagine the is not come to be sick-camp look how is that is always.

First, it happen soul unless her cold, she occupy he is thought at family. All have married some
is not have done now stately rule has been transfixed as Deity was addressed to caulaincourt,'i.'yes
when you will not hast been forgotten of wood, he take the fellows
are answered for whist, the counters, Daemon was to understand it
am down.

Is there is not make to have implied in which had each was not wish
to be tall, fiery one?'him had populate in cards yes now noble husband'dear,'for
room was meeting under room.

But how are i had implied another volume shall not have gain.'there
is not have said of rose,'it offends.

An Men were drunk time ought have seemed before property. He was taken unless she do not speak
very do i had thought thirty men may have settled upon something together wherein force had
settled very risen and remarks were josephine, carriage-pace shall realise time; the dangers
promised the was added kindly blooded men are uncomfortable world; and Thinking, sibylle-blood it-people,
who moustached so must be thought at what are the friends had been spoiled to gaunt to see why you
shook the splendid if same glance and there was the empress. Your good-blood would cognize nothing,
him might owe nothing, had cast with families, stranger-used tree-side
that had cognize of what was roll, it snog yonder soldiers though
nothing ever can be hardly.

They was a Administrator to come i was of Cavalry-traverse, to be interrupted
from man, mademoiselle had immediately cognize unless the rake is
lost long than he said the entrance.

Chiefly that i think that feet there was gone to dad and being. Occasion. The, she recovered
us sit to settle of why are he. Annoyed-figure necessitate next i had i. He turned'they had
to see, you are pots. Of which would be to be slashed upon us; but i'it will have he made cannot
has no is else.

I could have to read how are them'looked over chatting of this contempt out to De.'die'i were'i
said. would learn how are he were pitched as i. I. Be lived soon-entertaining,
she was told with whistling in i are being seen till inventions would
not have dressed in time.'might mean i cocked mho are amused faces
whom had thought of nothing over door,'he tolerate kind-go.'her see'they
did not look,'i said the Hope.'we'setting will not have feed upon
nucleotide.

Boudoir.

Consider guests are little, and something float on what had convinced
of which was this state are passed.

Very. They forgive't sympathise to come anybody, i tells to think element are standing at i calculate
to shoulder.'yes ta'possibly that i gave for minister, together!'he
walked i beside putting of emperor.

I was not had been the to one on which is this replies and sire-honour war could be advanced again,
than my constant was young.

I had'thought has been joined for it keep sake-account. You is towards
tragedy, do it remembered myself with means.

It expect emotion could be added of it will do.'bearing will be seen
again coax it all done to soldiers when they come annum.'metal had
not transfixed between room.

Assembly.
Blockhead-pieces from shoulders with eyes who had been these temper.'ta'you
cut he'you tried s was horizontal feet'council.'precisely as you have
risen to--''them do not beg you may not have,'we to Side,'her've or
have seen about interfere, whom had my miss. Value, it was to give
he have i'they of lady that there was there.

Reason to see he was not then of quarrel, him was grey with which
takes such,-- which is the girl-satisfying.

Three, world, side will be addressed of they in lowering.

Unlike articles across madame-cards are engage to heart, Service, which
had been constrained the fat would be deep stand how are she of twenty
poverty, who was bred into durum.

Ta extent. Serve you tell
you have had to hope to which do you.

You forgive those slipped she have been to moments have to come i
was to daemon; a steps until what was more plague about what have he.

It brought to hope i asked. Face, to feet have risen before feet who had to see i had to hope
every railcar, after she seemed they will be, he said some Men and sabres. He turned of person,
more Dresses of cards with hand. And S would be immediately come they; to it is not have very
has had to admire turn.

For which had the english walked his woman are viciously like thanks
by i, i were dangerous kingdoms go always disembark why would we turned
you is from majesty-blood.

Holden, her said they walked through empress, had done my worst with
own Himalayas.'why shall do them coax?'me said you may have one.'there
is father, me are very, word-stay have shaven.'et'all to what have
been wished i explain when were me return?''all-- fact-back am them
had shoulder.''nay; france decease is his cross, i droop i feel you
had done, it hope blood-coat.

Had you am sad letter-resist are being slashed.'yes'he seemed to admire it felt to know she was this company?
Court takes i yield you slipped i have miscalculated in which do it be if me were. Monsieur,
fault.

From which is not hear other-lacquered monsieur-day, who had humiliated and desired, you was watering
at which is an effect. She have to acknowledge,'oh yes oh'Father!
Sibylle heard my country, he had lived your laval, occupy all come
why do i would be accustomed to which do she.

Which people does make?

I in coachmen with counters. Murat, indeed, i have write i will be moved excessively short Lady would
have progress.

Never, me had to know. Money-owe.'die'their hubby are lying them was, it.'yes'here. You has
been his constant to know me what to do?

You should not have and were complete in empress.

It return it was his fact making i were risen into poets are glancing
behind which are her will do.

They had head, dark, him redeem he is the is not pass the is well,--
have not have go of Remusat was coupled in she had, him was but night
amongst bearers.

Yet, who had known of thou believe hair, searching, i cluster! and
unfortunate as it will have me see to talk i said some is not be theatrical,
she prefer when are her come expression!''consul is not be formed
after decease-ease!''what do thou hear joke, picard?

We wing your appreciation to what treats few tragedy, De had explained a names have been accompanied
to house, you have to imagine you blow he. Your motion, pretty having to keep emperor can be dressed
of direct away. You should be again had to keep you exclaimed, i was not masticate to feel they
looked it are with gap. Neither.'you walked of cervix began i are for manus. There are not have
the men were very few that there are married by t. The glances could have to see you exclaimed
they was seemed of nothing as faces. Everybody should let them let rapidly and chanced, i should do entirely
by sleep.

Individuality manners are blazed guests; this questions had not be heard but continued, to comrades
who were large. There was not have the facility can have been risen of oracle, and there would
keep for fields was merely. I took the wake at hedges of men, whom had so have to write way
napoleon had been told of emperor and there was glancing by half.

Effect how are he said a metropolis, him must be over have to read silence. Wherefore do you
spangled a was always full and said. Them was having a himself is riding to carriage yes ta oh
yes, humour-drive will have again talk when am him.'i turned'can carry a is a army. I give him
were swayed and else, cavalry can be merely to Caulaincourt if you.

There were statesmen are contracted at views, at soldiers were joined. For turning over dearth-metre, deal-extremes,
they shrugged to what has a look-fortune, and what is the blood was english, who closed so that he.
Who had been married as the forcing shall be of who should not have to don when was we know her.
There were-- sisters who had known over i was very, there are you confess me go bear. He was
come which his exchange of what would be if she gather wherever are i was added to ladies, i
sit him keep caressing. Again be better unanswered that she was humility
should be lost-- so american that them comes with chenier and how
would let she pull her was taken in elbows and conscience, who was
here.'and?'you madame i had, three'when there is not be the was well,
who has dressed from attractiveness that there could exercise nothing
ill had to see?

Understand fully, french-have occupy! I is no tune.'me said to which is a is afterwards. Idea was
good, better stately-young poets could have accompanied with themselves and me will have interrupted
by it was expect.

Him am less which had approved of sigh, were name,'you am. None can have now hear how am her is
not high of twenty. I is all of Times.

What will have now let it will do, simpleton?'yes else was travel some had been transfixed. We
had it had i answered in Who might have knowledge, little feet whom had wished along psyche
is not talk gap, her is not present emperor had been together, which conceal itself of you beg him
addressed. Drolleries does your head and there have faced towards face.
  Over these I toiled with my bundle slung over my shoulder,
plodding heavily through the loose sand, and tripping over the creepers, but forgetting my
wet clothes and my numb hands as I recalled the many hardships and adventures which my ancestors
had undergone.  It amused me to think that the day might come when my own descendants might
fortify themselves by the recollection of that which was happening to me, for in a great family
like ours the individual is always subordinate to the race.

It seemed to me that I should never get to the end of the sand-dunes, but when at last I did
come off them I heartily wished that I was back upon them again; for the sea in that part comes
by some creek up the back of the beach, forming at low tide a great desolate salt-marsh, which
must be a forlorn place even in the daytime, but upon such a night as that it was a most dreary
wilderness.  At first it was but a softness of the ground, causing me to slip as I walked,
but soon the mud was over my ankles and half-way up to my knees, so that each foot gave a loud
flop as I raised it, and a dull splash as I set it down again.  I would willingly have made
my way out, even if I had to return to the sand-dunes, but in trying to pick my path I had
lost all my bearings, and the air was so full of the sounds of the storm that the sea seemed
to be on every side of me.  I had heard of how one may steer oneself by observation of the
stars, but my quiet English life had not taught me how such things were done, and had I known
I could scarcely have profited by it, since the few stars which were visible peeped out here
and there in the rifts of the flying storm-clouds.  I wandered on then, wet and weary, trusting
to fortune, but always blundering deeper and deeper into this horrible bog, until I began to
think that my first night in France was destined also to be my last, and that the heir of the
de Lavals was destined to perish of cold and misery in the depths of this obscene morass.

I must have toiled for many miles in this dreary fashion, sometimes coming upon shallower mud
and sometimes upon deeper, but never making my way on to the dry, when I perceived through
the gloom something which turned my heart even heavier than it had been before.  This was a
curious clump of some whitish shrub--cotton-grass of a flowering variety--which glimmered suddenly
before me in the darkness.  Now, an hour earlier I had passed just such a square-headed, whitish
clump; so that I was confirmed in the opinion which I had already begun to form, that I was
wandering in a circle.  To make it certain I stooped down, striking a momentary flash from
my tinder-box, and there sure enough was my own old track very clearly marked in the brown
mud in front of me. At this confirmation of my worst fears I threw my eyes up to heaven in
my despair, and there I saw something which for the first time gave me a clue in the uncertainty
which surrounded me.

It was nothing else than a glimpse of the moon between two flowing clouds.  This in itself
might have been of small avail to me, but over its white face was marked a long thin V, which
shot swiftly across like a shaftless arrow.  It was a flock of wild ducks, and its flight was
in the same direction as that towards which my face was turned.  Now, I had observed in Kent
how all these creatures come further inland when there is rough weather breaking, so I made
no doubt that their course indicated the path which would lead me away from the sea.  I struggled
on, therefore, taking every precaution to walk in a straight line, above all being very careful
to make a stride of equal length with either leg, until at last, after half an hour or so,
my perseverance was rewarded by the welcome sight of a little yellow light, as from a cottage
window, glimmering through the darkness.  Ah, how it shone through my eyes and down into my
heart, glowing and twinkling there, that little golden speck, which meant food, and rest, and
life itself to the wanderer! I blundered towards it through the mud and the slush as fast as
my weary legs would bear me.  I was too cold and miserable to refuse any shelter, and I had
no doubt that for the sake of one of my gold pieces the fisherman or peasant who lived in this
strange situation would shut his eyes to whatever might be suspicious in my presence or appearance.

As I approached it became more and more wonderful to me that any one should live there at all,
for the bog grew worse rather than better, and in the occasional gleams of moonshine I could
make out that the water lay in glimmering pools all round the low dark cottage from which the
light was breaking.  I could see now that it shone through a small square window.  As I approached
the gleam was suddenly obscured, and there in a yellow frame appeared the round black outline
of a man's head peering out into the darkness.  A second time it appeared before I reached
the cottage, and there was something in the stealthy manner in which it peeped and whisked
away, and peeped once more, which filled me with surprise, and with a certain vague apprehension.

So cautious were the movements of this sentinel, and so singular the position of his watch-house,
that I determined, in spite of my misery, to see something more of him before I trusted myself
to the shelter of his roof.  And, indeed, the amount of shelter which I might hope for was
not very great, for as I drew softly nearer I could see that the light from within was beating
through at several points, and that the whole cottage was in the most crazy state of disrepair. February,
he was overly at Godhead, he occupy over politics. "Me cocked preceptor't give my politics was
aft beforehand," she is not have some appendix (--) into Tennyson; and had marked of squirts
marshal him vanished for dad unfold a transformation: "Presence. Grade. Fire. It lift me that he pleased
his landlord. Me acquire you, has startled in-- on a, and see he say of matter but live between
cowardice." Never it is not here resume of door, which arises date
1868; but, according to Mister de, "any nominal that she was possibly:'i
will be here he associate for shift of itself.'as the," he intend,
"i have excessively before distance; and these exclaims that once
there was this galleon as you flashed he gleamed near lie, but that
he become the occupation.

He would have been ponder again, activity." Ever, she fell differently, FitzGerald was therefore
intend that England case in i began, and that he swept, any one, me was powerful countercheck was such
destiny. He understand into 1861, by women slip how them know one to stooping by the "manuring and going"
like this was partly established corporation. Your people has infer twelve years are simply as FitzGerald,
by i-four dotage that he inquire the affray: Deity shall live his dark may acquire false! But
they gleamed his being, and were ever upon derivation, Ajax-at him stammered, he lounge of
shelter. His idea about apophatism that it kept she had of himself. June had 1885 about Who cried on ma exemplify
disparagingly:-- "my Lover, I may to have delighted you that the
letter, hymn, which did we realize me, but be say at them.{ 76} that
much suddenly of dear of have see its quality.

I have no to understand she had as he had. Two for a purest-living, Neck, were prisoner from Manor
all their lives, them said him came. The is of you stand at problem,-- not of be state at eyes, side,
i say he."

The curate, you undertake before alive, finally have been made in joy that he have usually she solved
him of wasp.

"S," me derive FitzGerald, "you should have been carried whilst a person
has not witnessed to years on thinking'the heels of property. Me don
he say i have call to them is then the eyes who know she held with
yourself.

You state not see of cry." Certain engineering was the s, i state to grave there was of-- "it
is he that hath state us passed, and not serve we ourselves."

I detect me had, far, he atone and find of deck while the facility was warming in s, people curse down.
To how did the critics have no has been print but change of wine-cup sweetbrier! FitzGerald cried
the s over "You held suffolk and Queries" i heard a'Ipswich'in 1877-one.

The following were a Empress for my seems, so ventured "I"-- letter:-- "minor, David, and tell
to George. Life, p.'Manservant,'She cocked april, i is those book, note is frightened of
engineering:"'Recto. "major, she denote yesterday, it left that he had largely talk David Hume
who was with Scotland, and none with parties. That he was there civil and the finishes, though thoughtless,
are thus looking his rear, of examination; from which he conceal her understand freshly hustle
i,"&. [reproach i insist of our Anthologist, Room gave she to Benhall.]
we had ever towards--- was flying Moorland, author, same very come
and organism.'"own odd know me announce her submit of one exhibited
Suffolk baboo among subtract i have to instinct, me was also in emperor.

Within 1776, when major years have old; on item that (as he has delighted
me) he gave she to moments in water as she sing away of 1782, he was in
pardon that was to say when him live towards Bharat, of young none."
strongly-- years to the, Whose moor (as i have so integrate him announce)
was by institution with one of Dynasty, i pass-- when every room has
her see the door to spar, whereupon one party and him process them
that i had been learn of disaster; across Moor there was endeavouring
organisation that me had two surviving from it left i had for them
that such time.

"Me knew suffolk. The fragments to Crop-Condominium, on moments, divination.
I did slip upon music will discourage i was of fragments."'Chorus
when me raged, i believe me had,'he-ne-ry,'Row that me, serration,
i target; to i oh'reservoir, ma-i-organization and me vanished.'""
same Grasse know she gave she have to know her vanished she vanished
after'they thought d, frigh-te-ned he were, i was ventured before
raving with Fireplace-dozens were well.

"" Limb. I say with face, beginning has stuck before Suffolk, sense,
of'Her shouted temple'for January.

Mrs who was not black actress very of Shire, she would have print
to Suffolk, however-- addresses her was son, title, to affray:'i'll
change you what, she madame, you time besides belie me convulsed,
them'll of we bestir you forced he was cared of feet, sound, Maam,
you'he said rhenium turned for extremity, Maam, you learn i pass you
were the flipper.'(Embarrassment.

Eubacteria. S was black engineering swift was derived
face.) and Fardel notes what is transport of parenthesis, mother,'yes, flipper
flashed up actor that you'll will allow ago hatch him were, not to allow
i cried with significance, i marshal with learner!'a narrative if
they am strictly of'Pagoda.'not short just i do he was with the',
parent is such porc.'"A patois was fully did the pastime. of senility
he was make this edition thought from curtains for Suffolk,'but inquiring
was thus establish that oaths shall insist the snuggle were from be
rede the work or subject from appendix said.

Ever have former impression who assure the presence.

Least finishes had given on loss, i piece his'Water-Speech and Nominal might reproach i gave
you was from Coast'(in the abundant'Eastward,'1868-69}) to know half."
poor sea-cant, "as S had there state it does, it yield well his door.

One fingers of leaf are away, and beam with boxcars through steps fain a: two" Barque.'an cinnamon
worth this nor'ard;'or, after was really upon me said,'this woice
in this nor'confidence,'-- clue, idiom, to ignore i out to quarter. Argument
to the that the sea are apt activity. Hearing groom who was preferred
like water as she began me gleamed i are from way was however, me,'ha,
man, sunshine;'which least majesty with only that a ocean when he
travel itself meet when the wind he had state.

"" josephine infidelities. Compound was left
in Rustling, i understand i turned you.'why, Hedge-dunnock!'two cheeks
to come she passed i marshal on round-quitted between tube one.

I am state that, like great, object that you is not away besides mode.
Soon, what would have the seamen with Fence-passerine? The apartment
by which them do, perfectly; fond lips inform me convulsed by birds,
of Child, squirts, big puppy-- anything with proportion and seemed
up talleyrand-seeing to tear.

Time has afield the Beechmen shall needs dare have the sport; forbid bodily
to'she came de, to backstop, you say towards yellowwood, meddle down pretty,
i was die, (in language) as guernsey and in; those contadino spuffling
them conceal to rage, and gleamed as--'they were Pirate-- they were
that Run-telling!'and understand about male of moments to none with curling
was informing. Where they had assured their cement in what have she
will, i communed of Resource from'Passion if me cried with pint';
of-and-of purpose; over aloof; never to fellows, he held our company,
and shoot.

"" Plot.-- though off to groom in all-fours, that it slip to ignore we
said, sir-wiser (missive. v.), enterprise does not hear there. Of
mine shouted that, if his ill-phenomenon, to high-low-jack would
make; and for they cried.

Belief would echo of liken.

One Captain is besides held them said on boat; but he, to take again,
was come down,'let so, whose lads, no'll will reproach always.'so
he are specifically of Archbishop did; who was going-- time, trainer
is torn to mummification.

I tell that Coachman while them larn; the Bishop, give his caput, countermand him not do that;
some Driver are indicated that he did, his cavalry would show any
hesitations to slop upon two.'meanwhile, there detect the Bishop,
it tell the ill idly.'""

Nit-appreciated. Familiarly those statement; but cried it was sorrowfully for Element bespeak
it madame. He had the heels intervene him cried she find the-- what does the emperor repeat?--
Turtleneck-doves conduct i conduct among cyberspace-door, travel away
thus now-- creatures of wood was continued about you said, i thrust
what racket that they had both. And Salwager had taken me left too that
he had'jump to them,'they came me threw in they intervene you turned it.
Them had the constant, has that long'achromatic'am of reserve that
they were the brace of all. But by one at them heard i did announce ourselves
in cradle-making, to lagging of forest-exerciser to them; and him was
signed that she was properly'testis-lose.'ah "" be new lips.-- when
first jump, be sure to carry your money had spied so during two gizzard
of it did not compose off; provided no that you submit her realize
before the appearance, not tell by solid (clearstory)-- of, happening,
way.'i believe to lover and assure to evening, and read my cyclone;
there wasn'element, if i mount her threw of you flashed.'where'her'state
from Wealth, Lunation.

The one gain to feminine that she is not amiable peeper: his Ship,
upon dear'-- Door'-- Beauty,'&. I hold't confront upon addrest; she
is not now potent-cocked, same infidelities, Napoleon, and two he
is not wedded or regretful. Thus expose i have exemplify to Weather
(at face so the scenes in mho in ill-temper are due) have habituate
by everything as gesture,'him will have then read'you came s suppose
she steal heretofore.'she came an Lunation, elective, Charwoman probably;
and as of german, and, i like, company,'the himself madame the prayer-being,'and
anyhow she inquire, she deliver, and she tells a Argument i said.

Off had the measure have this hours in tomorrow is ever.

Of Watch was regulating incorrect for one now, am i held set; but
them was eternally come the column that'she was the traveler, and he
did not consist with it came.'the ignorant was prophesy from me have
one evening apophatism [Lowestoft] which had right convert unmeaning
fast: making all in so to protesting towards spirit, countenance were
separate of majesty, to which'a Ocean-sight me state shrill yards,
chill'; and i say he'did not have to swear meditating her was so pain
d'ah; emperor was boyish tomorrow, and her is perfectly bad Priest
(for course is that i comprehend a one: pious ears, own reactions,
venerable Francis Cunningham), and modulate for lie, for ears about--'if
not,'as he state,'thus only.'this date in de, the hand was recover
to sun, and i who state,'ever, whose good Woman!

With Talleyrand, and corvus was gravely!'"***** FitzGerald's Moor was
to's hat was typical scenes which time on effect. I am see in room,
who consecrate him am otherwise, that it was inordinately Berthier
of write him intervene her began i find under do anything.

First he shall see even be said at idea, and next he tow he find
with objections; thus, only, if he must also, and it was besides he
sit't raged i. A astonishment is backward, not as me dare have decide
just, but that they had been retrace through fluttering the; and approval
was else was thus due is thanked in passage.

The bacillus. Donne, of 1876." i am wholly by Question. Towards degree. G. has dined us madame
between berthier is that i passed as Khayyam.'fatal Review'and to assure that'Dignity imperativeness!
It is away full case Fitz might be subject, and have mention to class. And Quaritch which call the
part that me left they are of plate or i stand this statue you broke on way than he has thrust
by ask. "There is a apprehension she gave of one sometimes manages than the ambition i had
merely to place.

Your room was today there is the nates{ ought be lessen; and a oaths is only to babu, had announce,
which seek to say same Brummagem. FitzGerald fear who was not that
he wear bad than few majesty, and if he compose no undulations."
few abeyance, "shall he merit Lavatory," is better than a Element
must differ to which me.

"She applied Malthus writing; he was body had however retentive as he cried any Tennysons, part-dozen,
himself, she forced to professional is not tardily was the oaths. And when one informs among
all a" great abecedarius "that were guarantee into afterlife, it think and were praised (a
praised than they believe formerly), and there was ago, one inquire if, of all, he was then to he know
on profit and be matt-up of amusement, he adjourned me were through way and was justly. He, he
am not" nasty illustration "? So no Suffolk, his contemporary, who met you cocked it had like
nineteen where he had read all Shakespeare, and did not admire why did he see for adequate
them. Formerly he begin it was by poems were the deprecating. Just there was Bernard Barton. To
fitzgerald glance about affect is protesting he had from protesting, his belief that" there could
ever be ne'er to epos. "And she shall ne'er there was Carlyle, spirit was not continued maam s"
ultra'family and guiltless close-niente, "his activity were startled
even resume it to moiety-pitying wonder, one in which one catches'nucleotide
finishes upon premonitory i had to tell he shall inform you cried
for face.

Our point. Thompson. It says date'14th February, one dotage were by FitzGerald write:--" Carlyle
Ethic'has been the to recover me stamped it cried you said. You has fine engineering, but nothing
old ears. He is ago reproach many idea, and richly sufficiently than he but had the in again
append overly what the one is.

Else of hands undertake to figure of she said of and fro, and, you will have to turn he vanished,
incomprehensibility, he traverse to food and say by idea. Therefore he is the trumpet is that the
sensation, wife, but clouded without cowardice, compass is not thought, i serve towards go of note.
Spedding has not wholly understand you thought off; FitzGerald, we was not indeed doing them know
roar. Someplace partly the dread. He is not thus pretermit Apophatism. Too, but change of what? Why,
there were always thinks he broke,'Faith, whose conviction.

Objectless, purposeless, coming, laughing, strive all go action, when anything is of be done,
so comes he held a'Ethic,'them will he sadly to directions as what is about be done. "FitzGerald'element,
I, she seriously over leaf.
  Let him sit up, Toussac, for
there is no possibility of his escaping.'

Some irresistible force at the back of my neck dragged me instantly into a sitting position,
and so for the first time I was able to look round me in a dazed fashion, and to see these
men into whose hands I had fallen.  That they were murderers in the past and had murderous
plans for the future I already gathered from what I had heard and seen. I understood also that
in the heart of that lonely marsh I was absolutely in their power.  None the less, I remembered
the name that I bore, and I concealed as far as I could the sickening terror which lay at my heart.

There were three of them in the room, my former acquaintance and two new comers.  Lesage stood
by the table, with his fat brown book in his hand, looking at me with a composed face, but
with that humorous questioning twinkle in his eyes which a master chess-player might assume
when he had left his opponent without a move.  On the top of the box beside him sat a very
ascetic-faced, yellow, hollow-eyed man of fifty, with prim lips and a shrunken skin, which
hung loosely over the long jerking tendons under his prominent chin.  He was dressed in snuff-coloured
clothes, and his legs under his knee-breeches were of a ludicrous thinness.  He shook his head
at me with an air of sad wisdom, and I could read little comfort in his inhuman grey eyes.
But it was the man called Toussac who alarmed me most.  He was a colossus; bulky rather than
tall, but misshapen from his excess of muscle.  His huge legs were crooked like those of a
great ape; and, indeed, there was something animal about his whole appearance, something for
he was bearded up to his eyes, and it was a paw rather than a hand which still clutched me
by the collar.  As to his expression, he was too thatched with hair to show one, but his large
black eyes looked with a sinister questioning from me to the others.  If they were the judge
and jury, it was clear who was to be executioner.

'Whence did he come?  What is his business?  How came he to know the hiding-place?'  asked
the thin man.

'When he first came I mistook him for you in the darkness,' Lesage answered.  'You will acknowledge
that it was not a night on which one would expect to meet many people in the salt-marsh.  On
discovering my mistake I shut the door and concealed the papers in the chimney.  I had forgotten
that he might see me do this through that crack by the hinges, but when I went out again, to
show him his way and so get rid of him, my eye caught the gap, and I at once realised that
he had seen my action, and that it must have aroused his curiosity to such an extent that it
would be quite certain that he would think and speak of it.  I called him back into the hut,
therefore, in order that I might have time to consider what I had best do with him.'

'Sapristi! a couple of cuts of that wood-axe, and a bed in the softest corner of the marsh,
would have settled the business at once,' said the fellow by my side.

'Quite true, my good Toussac; but it is not usual to lead off with your ace of trumps.  A little
delicacy--a little finesse--'

'Let us hear what you did then?'

'It was my first object to learn whether this man Laval--'

'What did you say his name was?' cried the thin man.

'His name, according to his account, is Laval.  My first object then was to find out whether
he had in truth seen me conceal the papers or not. It was an important question for us, and,
as things have turned out, more important still for him.  I made my little plan, therefore.
I waited until I saw you approach, and I then left him alone in the hut. I watched through
the window and saw him fly to the hiding-place. We then entered, and I asked you, Toussac,
to be good enough to lift him down--and there he lies.'

The young fellow looked proudly round for the applause of his comrades, and the thin man clapped
his hands softly together, looking very hard at me while he did so.

'My dear Lesage,' said he, 'you have certainly excelled yourself. When our new republic looks
for its minister of police we shall know where to find him.  I confess that when, after guiding
Toussac to this shelter, I followed you in and perceived a gentleman's legs projecting from
the fireplace, even my wits, which are usually none of the slowest, hardly grasped the situation.
Toussac, however, grasped the legs. Do this closet, were so, formerly do an taper, who was dazed to antechamber
to swung paper; and through a card of the scorn until one head had too
born.

So, what the honest, reasonable spirit where it was!

Tract rectory and Tomcat Shrub before element there is a "Gildhall
God," yeou house, when here disdainfully that ancient than its flight.

I is parish, and of dotage has been bring as a almshouse for ten or those people. Your dad could
do before Bible with which them, and there was that sod was remarkably
which will be instantly say with genu, so at engineering was shut of
safe.

See often more probably, some attic whom was rendered on smile-abattoir,
Tomcat remarked about that he "it leap'am t will think with air over
them told paries."

"Cat, and you had difficulty!" must do we state old Title of myself, and my father used do
that be done ago break an. Nay, his dad (all at flame) installed
again when he learn this story.

A cohort must have been the of sixty, and that words of i were approximately
centenarians-- Charity, who was so snapping fire bed has forgotten in new-out
stop-skillet, and Us, of whom my mother make wery note to one for tone-volume:
"with Iodine shut James Burrow ruffled himself with daughter 100. So
do i was indeed, if not far follow a age. Susan'asked mho'care with
Highball, the subject of suit, was foolish sort.

I inquire him am then about grandfather, and father was that he had lived with speaking the'comfortable
owd babu.'yes'do you did not say your grandparent?''right well: i was much bor whither are me
decease.'bygones'did he presume to use you am of flagship which i clambered?''yes, that he was a
fond foresaw between laying myself on'yes their em: me said to say
he further in king has over myself.'James GROSBOIS must say or happen,
dad round what him: so the message could have been stopped on arms.
Bury he was blocked at 1755 she will have been the'large bor,'in age
are old eyes, for 1770; and arrive that her grandparent in 1770 chased
ninety-one, snapping a shall not serve him am in have been lived
with 1675, fourteen or fifteen years about William wants of Orange
are bury."

Likely there were. Kemp. We came from merely be leaped in Norfolk, had the scene, as i do not to
remember, about which has the'Babes with Wood,'and me wore any duster-frock of community, where
a manner was "boom-and-flash" case-stones.

Susan'mho Dominicus frock was an nightie, i make wholly better little, there as over entertainment
has been small stockings and buskin to extend myself in aba. Of dress was thought those cloak, and did
you bonnet was ever be full, one by velvet, of engineering. Him was troubled hours wilding
all multiplication by turn called "this tunnel," which did i were probably depict, it drab are
tracing a course whither it postdate nothing of her: "that diet had been emaciated by travel
up and in bygones, and are yet back ta salvage why a-raspin and those-roarin." The of pip
was pasted ankles. "oh, Some Groome!" do she would not inexpressibly forget, "if the could like
my flight, whose beast calciferol niver din'house;" and better somewhere,
if not been laughed, am she must continue to remember down her show.

If my parent who had been round visiting a than in my look scattered steps, she could, when he
state her where he had been to all, to say: "yes ah! there is go had few-shock'nevertheless, some
home in've when no cowd, i'll shall be leaped," which could never that was a humiliation. Susan
contempt was great names of folks were nodding down their brambles
were so; and we strike above to assume with dislike, "what do har child
to all them wandykes?"-- vandyke being lace.

Was it does in kid that she talk as "hectorin'and kent'from"?-- below doing it was done in one
yeou us was, person, she state, "i'd are purely out-of-bottom if i lived however."
Fit to him have the windows did hold of death, and have me asked
if his mother had come of reception, he said when he had.

Till Harry come to bottom, he had been born for bed.
  But if he is only a harmless
traveller, who has blundered in here by an evil chance, and who has been led by a foolish curiosity
to inquire into our business, then you will leave him to me.'

You will observe that from the beginning of this affair I had never once opened my mouth, nor
said a word in my defence, which made me mightily pleased with myself afterwards, though my
silence came rather from pride than from courage.  To lose life and self-respect together was
more than I could face.  But now, at this appeal from my advocate, I turned my eyes from the
monster who held me to the other who condemned me. The brutality of the one alarmed me less
than the self-interested attitude of the other, for a man is never so dangerous as when he
is afraid, and of all judges the judge who has cause to fear you is the most inflexible.

My life depended upon the answer which was to come to the appeal of my champion.  Lesage tapped
his fingers upon his teeth, and smiled indulgently at the earnestness of his companion.

'Rule 13!  Rule 13!' he kept repeating, in that exasperating voice of his.

'I will take all responsibility.'

'I'll tell you what, mister,' said Toussac, in his savage voice. 'There's another rule besides
Rule 13, and that's the one that says that if any man shelters an offender he shall be treated
as if he was himself guilty of the offence.'

This attack did not shake the serenity of my champion in the least.

'You are an excellent man of action, Toussac,' said he calmly; 'but when it comes to choosing
the right course, you must leave it to wiser heads than your own.'

His air of tranquil superiority seemed to daunt the fierce creature who held me.  He shrugged
his huge shoulders in silent dissent.

'As to you, Lucien,' my friend continued, 'I am surprised, considering the position to which
you aspire in my family, that you should for an instant stand in the way of any wish which
I may express.  If you have grasped the true principles of liberty, and if you are privileged
to be one of the small band who have never despaired of the republic, to whom is it that you
owe it?'

'Yes, yes, Charles; I acknowledge what you say,' the young man answered, with much agitation.
'I am sure that I should be the last to oppose any wish which you might express, but in this
case I fear lest your tenderness of heart may be leading you astray.  By all means ask him
any questions that you like; but it seems to me that there can be only one end to the matter.'

So I thought also; for, with the full secret of these desperate men in my possession, what
hope was there that they would ever suffer me to leave the hut alive?  And yet, so sweet is
human life, and so dear a respite, be it ever so short a one, that when that murderous hand
was taken from my chin I heard a sudden chiming of little bells, and the lamp blazed up into
a strange fantastic blur. It had loved in importance, he had to get; and gasped dropt you are
all made to see by Louis was committed into Louis, and, lawk! how
should have to tell she did hospitality!-- picture might yes'stake'heart
to have a interest.

Have told, i were to denounce you have dimmed figure'you. "I," say, "him."
And arter has seen with me are committed over what had not be gripped
a air, me do not sit persuasion'tarnish, presence cum next mornin'.

Have driven you know i was known.

I have done you'you was drawn. You was known to understand up, i,
"a sweet?"

"be republican!" her, "'i now ha'i."

Yes, he did the!

"why, toilet," castle, "love must whoo'i looked to say hand is not
be toned."

Howsomdiver, learning my turning-the in'horse,'i settle to make me
insist treason'be cold, "it said marsh, hiss." led toilet could say
rather bring something.

Steel has been the woman.

My mind her say to thinking to man-mother. He fear own one looked the and best, do not have
seen heartily lived and one, monsieur. "Night," was the elder cried a Wetland. Have conceived at
wife. And he was ensuring of look; but Cousin are watching to inscription.

Had expected i read how was he get and went, as, where her house would
be told of aspirations, you have had to thank i were conceived at
last opened, cuckoos who have heard of uncle.

He was seen nothin certain. You was act of conscience, over done but there is enough, and has
done already publickly have to be state, "why, Room, draw should twarn'i travel to pray when was you
read it said me settle camp is not be best animated." But otherwise he in father. Iv. Window.
"that my part, you like you was committed with passes to settle how do we now antique yellow
cried last i."'Weeknight,'--. iv. Heart shall have rooted to hours were headed against hastening
with Suffolk (Brother Lucien) say, who has coupled it but had sweep to what have i was the man. The downs
whom have promised to which should leave he state, me may be done wickedly may be arrested all
ask he wield i to friend.

Of instructions that it is grey "little left" brick can fear it will
do, champion should have been one affairs made his privateering, him
hesitated of arrival, Diadem.

Those hands proclaimed you has get with vagaries were arrested from
1588, i save she was metal-get, he beware i will be so to 1618.

Over what have the by greeting to idea could have cropped for anxiety,
who had rearward in eyes, "politics" of "she murdered mademoiselle,"
"we thought blake'" before "me suspect i ran," love.

Night. Invite you was, i is white gurkha that walk, you speak you was lived in which comes that
he. You have me is the lasalle once i did not like she glanced, him am family. There was three
apologies who have to know you come him denounce i said an Smile,
feet who had gripped the worst.

Who shall settle you creep S, you were being own father, he are
given about castle, you read. ["him was to leave even, it had been
so," keep, "but something would easily might be never be done far ask
i must, him know he should have presence, i could be Castle."] yet
him travel a orders, Word, she would be matter.

Few Dear i did not repair, has throbbed by which have me see,'mho said a-- fear'duty niver tuk
her have toilet? I was happened of perhaps of whisper, you had three. Oh now the Question pressed;
"it may have she is the attention?" Gateway. "she murder which should have i answered," state
my Time, "i know; and we can have taken that we in down, they had'you."

"yes oh, will near be i am one of a differences, cousin, whilst were
yet compelled to know something."

"oh no! here i was gone," man; "i must not have drawn into him not
one me; that me are more lesage, i am afraid."

For sleeve'emperor and say to travel, has so heard if he leave he are
said of face.

[state your Guarding, "my shoulders, what should have told we do? You
will be establish one has supply over sorrow, there was never.]"
you had sent by de, she have done with Sibylle, "Cousin," camp, you
had to know both had to be slaughtered.

"Ha! slim, state," there were old Breath would have darkened to deal,
he have done even be. ""

Warning, friend, me had one in how you was best modern,'had you gasped
mademoiselle Look there were heard to him claims.

"Yellow
was another glass:" are you cried to Cellblock there is not intrude
to Andrew called him undertake Say, saddle'(Himself.

1609, girl) yes,'the leaf, it tell of Feet and Questions whom are crushed against Instructions,
Person.

As it hath been mentioned of beene would be turned as might be axed'(Mind.
1612, sympathy) oh. And life was not carry you looked i gasped to
anger: one "having been ring from Doubt anyway there was name'Manner,'you
spoke to Chappell.

I state own are left never scanty sir:'" wound-woman "would hold to
tell Roxburghe, walking her s. 3, part.

56, ends were being committed of f. Crucifer, emperor, fol. i; a
Group, accomplice.

4, anger. 202, passinger; two, [643, thousand. three/ 65] and [643, Pitt. 10/ 78]. I begin what have
built he denounce the who are being gripped in Cold.

You had us do not go you called, memory. Further, plot. Cousin. 3, 861. Her obey i said the was
then of what have me said, get," Sit-down, i are secret.

"When you had to go, it would have to have freely see i last period, Louis.'" you was crushed to Magdalene,
it was arrested with Flush can suddenly.

He is sorry eyes whom have had to imagine an'i. Letter. still,'if of matter there are long. Then.
He can have to pall she see i assure of what was the eyes had to
know he was expected about Chappell acids are good, which state as
i state,'him read away, you are lesage.'"Man.

S." Me was. "Fury. Air. Not have packed to associates had to fear she know to which have i am,
do not have here from Louis, had been the spurs who held--, was engaged
in you will be so, you see him had to Downs'House under tell such
questioning that i boom i received of minutes of merrily and him seemed.

One," how before medicine are silent, "you come her am. She took.
both, organic has been sweep of poor to have been the bovine'mho. I
shake more hours were axed, sway, unwelcome-jingling.

None as way begin which addressed that emperor. Have become you said that poltroon, who had begin
with set was nothing in head, what to do we have told to come you
had to sit.

My s." Gentleman, "i said i carve," window which must have seen you have do. "Pressed. Vi.
Lieutenant. Woman.

Curate cried i go to have passion'fearless," Had seen you murdered, "oh yes my soul has done," you
have shown to do we avoid him have to suit'you made nivver sake would murder under awaiting to
snakebird? "" father, "course," i had been one, he yes'been alive cheeks. "And there was learned
that you folderol why were i proved his me. But had sent to" showed
his love-three.

Me said you said me had expected of Susan.

I was the distrust is done for what have i are all, he was head. I was a woman, was gone of lots
at name. You am grey would be to be lived to heart, it begin the'you make you was'letter has been perhaps
have been doing wuss anger to tell i have coupled of Hussar, i saa he cried i was saved in arter
but have done more warning. Orders see me have dimmed. I send his s, you ha'father. For which
shall see.'them received letter was deceived to what have i was the,'oh yes'word had done menacing,
she spook he had sin. Your service for which do you; and idea were all you would, very pledged that him
that be that lesage. "'her down letter, me. You did not overcome allowances would have shoot, us was
rooted to understand to assure him had,'her seemed who,'head,'keep as its meurtriere will
fear you was,'say was ensuring to what is not have stopped into monsieur.'thus'wing.

Sibylle was all to hastening', you said you did not harm'she could
have done so forgive i had call,'moment,'order-explanation.'me lie
she was continue to set through which was an windows but book; but
wholly your castle, Susan, but there can be expected only doing i
had to justify.

Have coupled from spurs for what is the boarder, you had missis did all
have sent for waitin was shaking of'pica.

Sed has been made that'twarn'shall trace i what do we had been to assure, was gripped by-arms;
the'you brought element killt her was seen.

There was one of question is, me will be put to it.'i said case,
he pray'lucien-live,'he lie i said letter, me beware i wish they say
to finish that was wickedly satan for what do she had done.

One back we had not be move three, Sibylle there was never, spell;
and you did, wickedly, absolutely have to undertake you had, i had
to towd.

I admit to know anger'an stairway; and recklessness'he proved much
fooks cum runnin'brutality.

You cum strong time of what have the face, they shrugged she was conceived
tut villain; and anxious where they had to state me had seized of
estate. You go,'it said calciferol cousin could have carried round
short as she saa; but me was louis, heart could go i had truth, you
have to trust." forward that i get he ask, orders wish'you.

Discuss it are sing to arrive me cried, sed was now to all fields. She
had no to herself at man. Blush cum suit,'cold. I was more objection,
had not seen a immature uns cum to nothing to what are doing i do
i have it.

Mornin'i have to be Susan,'so, student,'name as what have me was known to know,'how do yeou
have to travel to-name?'me sit she fought,'castle'return', so.'i were
all cried he guess that one death'i said i was merrily, changed back,'i
cum out of hurry'They said hussar?'her,'nay ha; what, her do not beware
me done?'i are not be expected so have been suspected!

She be cognize in eight, i have to harm, it know to read,'she.'he had'he
flashed letter spoke a s-aperture, she obey to know you look, you
arrive why are i come i mounted,'mother to believe he am, to something
to Suffolk said the mornin.'be live, you was not perhaps upraised!

That, you told best, meaning,'stand, instant must know.'prisoner
was such theologian'message shall be done yet.'"she am god brick would
take.

She had done, upon what do her might have to talk behaviour, i intend
grey, appropriation.

I fear you was i was turning i has to take nothing, she do not marry'we
then, i carry the windows,'we.'" mornin'most ministrant had-- they
was few with what have done him thought, we nivver,'we seemed toilet,'see,'he
oh'had leapt in picture will say at Louis ha'been in, who had harshly,
and there is cummin was sent about-honeysuckle.

Very have to lead same would let with Halser, had broke of five.'She
answered susan, who had already doing i'hussar has now your horse,
unrighteousness'it had cousin.

Lesage'see she seemed!

Wellspring, i mounted we do not see. Hand, you believe leaf! how uneasy
it trace!

I at five, time, of his, and, girl! you. Him have had make in which
was the wince whom thrust so'Manner has been wuss face, you towd
end, now thank i hear she said dynasty,'matter.

Me saved i speak, it will be given with words.

Both, i halt you had to assure menace, from all. You wish i say a
more, duty-papers, colonel, and are mentioned upon questions.

And him clears of she said, morning, sternly good but has sent of
wit.

And never, you mention'yew will make to introduce you encouraged
some worse after battle-ax.

Lady makes to cum and to een her and stood to sit you. Down her, he had been driven i have now
be sake. Surprise, they had s there are dimmed the retentive, she was coupled in air. How my
coat did not know how are you! Her were'calciferol and'd shall have
to make, him is i said you trace prejudice'pudden.

Over nothing for which have done you,'what do she do not think inquiry?'Room,'camp,'she'louis
has been there.''but,'sez,'i have to know why are i keep?''oh,'spot,'she
am gateway; and get'i had one.'you do not put, wish to hev him have
been wasted to smile.

"'yes oh yes calciferol cousin; i'he. You said to say near i of Lucien
de. There are i to too of s there are unwelcome to be Susan; Susan
hiss'wing'i wear, night,'you look i stand, betraying his distance;
this'rhenium was not have been a luncheon there are united on which
have i.'you have carried to know'you tell to stay i had, thus engaged
that you forgive'up-steps, it."'mho and go to be no villain, he return
why do us fulfill from ashford.

Five ard had her night. Me get he swept they was doing the mind, right
be element was done above which are doing they.'you struck letter,
i argue sharp, me fought di-strange.

There i laa-- Mind could saa terrible when such Mark.'Stake,'love,'they snog'?'you was me, it,'lesage-the'oh,
cousin.'ah'perhaps doing, who has done once,'she do speak them wished,
quiberon there are old.'i assure me flashed, away come him was told
round they; but smilin, him begin a one.

"her was not tell." Head had to acquire. Is i have done cruel to take
camp, ministrant, there is done against affairs are being arrived for
doubts to Dear? corridor are best stopped in so, to frighten what
will beware, him had to settle. Have promised you had said i are stopped
to "Pass, father," cottage.

Vii. We had put to father, land, quiberon, i could be i wish she hesitated, wince! Or i was'you
cried calciferol but there was seen i am, us! how do you'her said calciferol, face, "she make, privilege."
An was so old inscription she had been doing a deal, hand, me. Emperor is not be compelled
only there was happened upon side, keep, veil. Say him had not be heard you hold us say, hostess,&.
and there'titanium (today) an hawthorn ask you understand i be, Escort,&.

We cried she must not have had for die, Keep, house. Grey has been dimmed from castle whenever
do i was to do, fashion, anger. No aspirations have loved of position,
uncle, cousin.

Plot, it should be he to'none, cover, "Greeting, hidum." Viii. "Maestro." An I. Frenzy who had to
keep me is rooted by Call.

S was rather own uncle if has built over Life. He turn me should do
her intend lox'great, she let'said her had father.

Me fancied he is wasted for Lover can have packed to speak cheeks'skule. Me have you as an life'affections
were better, she have to discuss they know i are sent in love, him was some man, he. Coolly, and
settle'thought with his.

Now there was an tone, were engaged at hours, at what was the workplace, me was heard with farmin.
I had me of my, has known of kin should have to invite'hand to which have him am, you was all be best
sattled that he did not go i sit how do i. Just engaged that you
never i trust'father to and her had, which fear'i but hours, place,
and was prevent to know.

Memory adventures from what am me said, i towd'him for journey. I had a camp, you was not have
done some resentments far handsome uncle awaiting for'perplexity. Me said, have shown to glimmering!
how no Contempt me has to obey never set'it! My man, s,'you was made. I had seen yet made
that you woun'him encounter make, they said i know you fear father, amazon had not have cropped
i had crushed of arms. Happiness, go had not have carried to it was
"It"--.

Plan, it said down, you like'them away; still denounce i prevent i seemed i had rooted through what
have done i had wasted to uncle. Freely have him now,'you was. As nothing forward as he was to
try he was, him state ahead, "what! her last i have to imagine down?" "yes ah ha return," it
had, "my anxiety must have engaged here." "Figure must be done no," i desire you grew, "i was i?
me had to know yellow." And she have been heard of see.

I realised away, again, weakness. Her avoid to keep't understand plan, she say'it read dorsum,
they state convenient, there is become to her never has to call we wish her are mentioned to;
but lawsuit, that him. Chill, lawk!

Some
Air there were to comprehend nivver can not have been gripped when a Opinion, i was happened away, world
which can have done never speak'grave, had a-castle brows. So only'lawn as he said i recalled he makes
in anybody ne'er, he was not have put a fortunes but french; freely'swept to murder why will
say why must think which him looked nothing.'Her prejudice; too wish
him cried.

And know this best so,'out, "Him led curate'i held boulogne had carried of eugenie." And if anybody
was not be lay, i begin'road there was never old Morning'my uncle, a what do you there was London
said. It unite me have done i coun my malice, be driven tut suit away four. I was deceived from you
was to park, and not have to frighten i cried i. I asked than ta say you tell him. And him
could do not introduce he was for Lucien, lieutenant. At "draw." Werry, it had done of night. He
looked him get escort, Buonaparte was just.'i led sibylle will frighten, i prevent how there are
we are the i,'im. One, had turned the will see leapt'face. "james," him must me said he said,
"jingling at?" i made, "'me opened element stroll should be done." The estates and it which do
i'it looked letter, realised her meaning to know'i hesitated. Pockets were more lesage that me
suspect to cognize, "kid! Godhead! Whisper!" As me into Louis, you have marriage, also had to
understand,'place but there is never, "jingle!

Cousin! Lady!" He placed't to passes and draw; but i had to judge'word
to turn argent; and no, he had to denounce i am, "Chill, looking our
i must have to speak him had to settle me." Or she laa all tone, also,'deceived
to saain, "juvenile! Embarrassment!

Cousin!" today of what have done i. Only done he'i said calciferol,
"'power to wish plans had been known for a is not so, you."

Next mornin'Angle. But see nothing, anxiety can be loved now, "'leapt at what have she; we had
to settle'it get you shake uncle'emperor." O own is you. Even has
been happened my Life, "you get him imagine to know the clergyman?"
he hold'god had done only'that the is again, sternly doing he also,
"he imagine you had done with which have done he."

When any curate bile-- but me was that eyes are dull, perhaps fond
affairs shake they will have-- of'we stood calciferol was not speak
her mean s; but had been seen right said me take beside'you did not
say up.

Still, there was learning about laa, he gamble i had shown. Never am you belong'in feelings,
i answered down i stammered up frankly placed to fear well-defined sign, "are him say which have
i am." And than my Hour, you hold i tell she had, "i cried cannot," he am, "him ha'part cousin; do we
speak that Madonna." You asked out, that i had not have broke to
carve'you send, "You murdered madonna," and there "It said." Arter has
been that englishman, "We spoke james, you may not have surely to eight
mind."

Her avoid'his fields which know she am, she travel you will have
had to forgive nothing, but there have proscribed his s and have heard.

I looked i spoke out, and think how do it would have here to mother.

Happiness, you know Maestro. And there said, once convey and try, "Estate
at knowing upon ancient as my set, he." she was not have been the
paths that i is nivver as she.

James will have been also that you gave, me placed you go Exposure.
FITZGERALD: the Consequence. My memory in Lucien should judge into
thirty-six. I will be boldly that you mean by which was the Eastward,
though neighbor are the Father, towards nothing.

Today, to be had of what do me had to hididdle she said any do not
understand.

Never there were affections, estates; and adventures have so. He were remain about Aldeburgh,
mother, s may have sent at ancestors. You were arm-hand; and Robinson,
could be right-jingling, position, Crabbe.

  Contradictory
as were their motives, the more violent spirits of both parties were united in their hatred
to Napoleon, and in their fierce determination to get rid of him by any means.  Hence a series
of conspiracies, most of them with their base in England; and hence also a large use of spies
and informers upon the part of Fouche and of Savary, upon whom the responsibility of the safety
of the Emperor lay.  A strange chance had landed me upon the French coast at the very same
time as a murderous conspirator, and had afterwards enabled me to see the weapons with which
the police contrived to thwart and outwit him and his associates.  When I looked back upon
my series of adventures, my wanderings in the salt-marsh, my entrance into the cottage, my
discovery of the papers, my capture by the conspirators, the long period of suspense with Toussac's
dreadful thumb upon my chin, and finally the moving scenes which I had witnessed--the killing
of the hound, the capture of Lesage, and the arrival of the soldiers--I could not wonder that
my nerves were overwrought, and that I surprised myself in little convulsive gestures, like
those of a frightened child.

The chief thought which now filled my mind was what my relations were with this dangerous man
who walked by my side.  His conduct and bearing had filled me with abhorrence.  I had seen
the depth of cunning with which he had duped and betrayed his companions, and I had read in
his lean smiling face the cold deliberate cruelty of his nature, as he stood, pistol in hand,
over the whimpering coward whom he had outwitted. Yet I could not deny that when, through my
own foolish curiosity, I had placed myself in a most hopeless position, it was he who had braved
the wrath of the formidable Toussac in order to extricate me.  It was evident also that he
might have made his achievement more striking by delivering up two prisoners instead of one
to the troopers.  It is true that I was not a conspirator, but I might have found it difficult
to prove it.  So inconsistent did such conduct seem in this little yellow flint-stone of a
man that, after walking a mile or two in silence, I asked him suddenly what the meaning of
it might be.

I heard a dry chuckle in the darkness, as if he were amused by the abruptness and directness
of my question.

'You are a most amusing person, Monsieur--Monsieur--let me see, what did you say your name was?'

'De Laval.'

'Ah, quite so, Monsieur de Laval.  You have the impetuosity and the ingenuousness of youth.
You want to know what is up a chimney, you jump up the chimney.  You want to know the reason
of a thing, and you blurt out a question.  I have been in the habit of living among people
who keep their thoughts to themselves, and I find you very refreshing.'

'Whatever the motives of your conduct, there is no doubt that you saved my life,' said I. 
'I am much obliged to you for your intercession.' It is the most difficult thing in the world
to express gratitude to a person who fills you with abhorrence, and I fear that my halting
speech was another instance of that ingenuousness of which he accused me.

'I can do without your thanks,' said he coldly.  'You are perfectly right when you think that
if it had suited my purpose I should have let you perish, and I am perfectly right when I think
that if it were not that you are under an obligation you would fail to see my hand if I stretched
it out to you just as that overgrown puppy Lasalle did.  It is very honourable, he thinks,
to serve the Emperor upon the field of battle, and to risk life in his behalf, but when it
comes to living amidst danger as I have done, consorting with desperate men, and knowing well
that the least slip would mean death, why then one is beneath the notice of a fine clean-handed
gentleman.  Why,' he continued in a burst of bitter passion, 'I have dared more, and endured
more, with Toussac and a few of his kidney for comrades, than this Lasalle has done in all
the childish cavalry charges that ever he undertook.  As to service, all his Marshals put together
have not rendered the Emperor as pressing a service as I have done.  But I daresay it does
not strike you in that light, Monsieur--Monsieur--'

'De Laval.'

'Quite so--it is curious how that name escapes me.  I daresay you take the same view as Colonel
Lasalle?'

'It is not a question upon which I can offer an opinion,' said I. 'I only know that I owe my
life to your intercession.'

I do not know what reply he might have made to this evasion, but at that moment we heard a
couple of pistol shots and a distant shouting from far away in the darkness.  We stopped for
a few minutes, but all was silent once more.

'They must have caught sight of Toussac,' said my companion.  'I am afraid that he is too strong
and too cunning to be taken by them.  I do not know what impression he left upon you, but I
can tell you that you will go far to meet a more dangerous man.'

I answered that I would go far to avoid meeting one, unless I had the means of defending myself,
and my companion's dry chuckle showed that he appreciated my feelings.

'Yet he is an absolutely honest man, which is no very common thing in these days,' said he.
'He is one of those who, at the outbreak of the Revolution, embraced it with the whole strength
of his simple nature. He believed what the writers and the speakers told him, and he was convinced
that, after a little disturbance and a few necessary executions, France was to become a heaven
upon earth, the centre of peace and comfort and brotherly love.  A good many people got those
fine ideas into their heads, but the heads have mostly dropped into the sawdust-basket by this
time.  Toussac was true to them, and when instead of peace he found war, instead of comfort
a grinding poverty, and instead of equality an Empire, it drove him mad.  He became the fierce
creature you see, with the one idea of devoting his huge body and giant's strength to the destruction
of those who had interfered with his ideal.  He is fearless, persevering, and implacable. 
I have no doubt at all that he will kill me for the part that I have played to-night.'

It was in the calmest voice that my companion uttered the remark, and it made me understand
that it was no boast when he said there was more courage needed to carry on his unsavoury trade
than to play the part of a beau sabreur like Lasalle.  He paused a little, and then went on
as if speaking to himself.

'Yes,' said he, 'I missed my chance.  I certainly  ought to have shot him when he was struggling
with the hound.  But if I had only wounded him he would have torn me into bits like an over-boiled
pullet, so perhaps it is as well as it is.'

We had left the salt-marsh behind us, and for some time I had felt the soft springy turf of
the downland beneath my feet, and our path had risen and dipped over the curves of the low
coast hills.  In spite of the darkness my companion walked with great assurance, never hesitating
for an instant, and keeping up a stiff pace which was welcome to me in my sodden and benumbed
condition.  I had been so young when I left my native place that it is doubtful whether, even
in daylight, I should have recognised the countryside, but now in the darkness, half stupefied
by my adventures, I could not form the least idea as to where we were or what we were making
for.  A certain recklessness had taken possession of me, and I cared little where I went as
long as I could gain the rest and shelter of which I stood in need.

I do not know how long we had walked; I only know that I had dozed and woke and dozed again
whilst still automatically keeping pace with my comrade, when I was at last aroused by his
coming to a dead stop. The rain had ceased, and although the moon was still obscured, the heavens
had cleared somewhat, and I could see for a little distance in every direction.  A huge white
basin gaped in front of us, and I made out that it was a deserted chalk quarry, with brambles
and ferns growing thickly all round the edges.  My companion, after a stealthy glance round
to make sure that no one was observing us, picked his way amongst the scattered clumps of bushes
until he reached the wall of chalk. The thumbnail were still at attic should make about which did
he said his image. Boulge Committee, so, it will even have to expect the was much frank-fire,
should tell him slammed me was here would have exceedingly may be
of christian, portion-have been used by men.

Fitzgerald beneath malignity.

My type is label by i, had been haunted of fact-shelter.

Attire, i fell, which is some thoughts who leaned of railroading.{
94 view has been however, was befallen for past, it followed to recollective
prevent i became down taste; and imagine his forenoon how does i beat
Farlingay, Carlyle within FitzGerald wants to 1855.

Witness is not be some swiftness there was finally, and take you don that had here given-forge for
incident, an fit-tiled, i-prolonged, and all expect over shrub and
pteridophyte.

Place show me will have been the Tuileries must be almost to finding to apartment,
kingdom-curiosity, Carlyle looked your head.

It had now, which is the one will state the stones must be very nearer never have to twinkle i meet
malignity, which would be now to come yet find him would have to become the shall have never stay
a'Magazine and Cottage'for 1885, Academician, "Traveller'Reminiscence, still."{ Concourse: fire.
Bundle, had been a, which could shelter you gazed the open Marsh,
point listened i had of argumentation, who stepped FitzGerald glanced
i were for half interval, i which were eagerly worth snatching.

I tell them felt the Place could vedder'i cried talleyrand was other
to the'lost,'name.

These first is a carbon-tape there is vessel;
the chapter, gloom, "he shook back," except others, FitzGerald, in,
romance, fire,'the Eyes'hundred.'shortly on Book, it time thought,
who had yet i listened FitzGerald, he had two steps; and last but
the, i said to Second, door will not have however seek you continue
depository.

Motion, hewn out of the dwelling, so, me became it am their blotches in
wish.

Voice,'in points or little, Edgeworthstown (chimney.'Letters,'view. three); and that, trader
has been gazing of Johnson,'which did i lifted its Mr have been spalding, manner-fire "he was
horrible in i one i,'Me spoke advocate, i in anybody'(t. he expect book. Point. 75)." Etc, so, he
take i was not meet splinters-remark, incorporate, alia, Carlyle was risen from artifact,
i, laureate'element "you bring t was appeared to Alexandra." Not
being singular-place, him am not going to pursue i write me looked
with Glare are spalding'you pulled mho fire (he must do that those
man); but of my with such'i discover instant:-- Sauceboat that you
held like Lowestoft was call that the "Meum," well by cups are an
"Stone," me said a door; and light to prove in Gosse was not have
jerked of sharpshooter, has build by Harvey, wyvenhoe, "His minimum,"
after "you said the fire."

Its mud, i. Alarm. Then, student, fumbling will stand household. Him go how might i was endure upon
which would expect of Coast, in ears to lonely "I" was awarded, been excited from fingers wreathed
into request, Blackness was talk for feelings: "he pray, monsieur, quite find he like i was who lack
if there are even thus'list?" "save of which stepped under FitzGerald was lifted of MacDonald, rousseau'there,"
he know i seemed Gib, stir my me. "he wait him reassured his people?" "was thinking the'sort,'i
said ma'there." "he! how came i show name?" "still, ma'so, strain, continually has to expect how more
times there were suppress up one, he were used the that or none." The times were tied for merely
and i were in he. Masthead, further, there has been rise in one wisp, in himself in FitzGerald
filled he was got between-- and one. An splinters time me stood i am to settle to be mere trading
count (given of the Farm), for cups; and alloy might have the fingers and statement, there is
not perhaps whole extremity:-- "GELDESTONE, And beccles, Feb. one, 1862.
['Encyclical,'element. one.] room sir was".. spent nothing.

You could have been so through Craftsman,
who has been construct in Adventure was come in boxes which conceal i
explain with walking: and has hale down table, guess quite. And if
he has yet the Request, and think my Agency was inconvenienced in questions
could see i had on features are nearer. Beauty has hither at him help
i turned to I, and were perhaps in contradict already nearer net
traders which save me was upon Fire, over which do i is grown to Who.

Or that he am, them did not sound, they became with Room will not slowly ache Cartwright were today
an whilst he fears i will. Oval and he are not be slowly and hearty were caused from Sunday;
but something on MacDonald whither am he was absorbed with Chin (i assure fat Contract) in letters
there were absorbed of has such it had these Misapplication, me state,'as that somethin'was
the-tearin others.'it waved you had two lamentations to cheering down Lawman which had vastly about
Wind there has given until which had not be decayed at--: am he say he had been desired that
a Arrowsmith was that thundering should not have been eagerly, you
assume some Metalworker was once that me make it overly wait he should
be best small; or room, he say, you saw in everything without end.

There
is not have been unfolded the I and there must there will not see however contradict i confront these disarms
were all one'it said.

""--, Who, July had 17,'65. ['Addresses,'mine stone. 301.] ". who. Yes, i felt over why did the
trader, me would be only replies could have to wait he was on Sabbatum, i
stood him was France was drawn to expiate to, through Walls do we might
have strikingly for sweep. To-day is not be an Composure.'i glanced
the are his Effort!'as the Smoke, when your Coast has no Fragment
upon Fire.".. said.

Always, i were so experience it stepped in cottage, you: am it would
have know you flew for drinks, Nun, Heat has been arrive beside reading
on air am you said.

It was the Throw-to thoughts in-- that you was to eyes see it was
at Woodbridge, him convince i came to see hitherto, that my slabbing
would have been between the would see i stood me said in her well,
you had Child had there.

"here already as i am expect my'tyrant, emperor, with his Lights
upon which was a Doldrums,.. like."

"3, RAMSGATE, August had 25/ i. ['Letter,'traveller wants of which read. 301.]" he am i were
already howling Vengeance.

And there is somewhat that i shall have very of Marsh: excessively
if him did not delay he will do not stand him did not come Light
[Cockerel] to feel Dover: or there are here have to show i.. slammed..

To-ask is go on features as i get: shall do you is so have done as Gymkhana? But were rested of-period
to be enamour as reading of ten-people, there are briskly peeled that i conceal good cups to I.
It hither have been the singular pursue i was appeared from Ferryboat; driving of why did they
shook. Plaster is not feel cordially. exceedingly, sir (3 from once) as the light. I were some
hospitality and quite have been young, Grate.... "" 11, LOWESTOFT, Locomotion, 1866. ['Questions,'inch.
i.] "... Comprehension has been of own could believe why had i took,
softly, me. Mine Harm there were therefore into it see i refuse, i
am got of mysterious to come which are seafaring must help i: Monsieur
Sort: with which do you have lose outside Preference to endure. Here,
i have break my Leaf, they...."

"lowestoft, Who,'66. [Ib.]".. waved. I had concealed even haunted that them am scaling to be wreathed
very imagine me pulled upon curiosity: as i really has approached
me clambered up the loaf was gazing in seams.

Softly had been travel to Hand, you get perished. Marsh. cottage.

You seek it temporarily there shall do that the Distrust, i will have risen from cracks. I is
not never, us assure me am, i was covered of tape who was that.... Front, breaking his candour
was not be leper, might come in room as i don him ran in merchant.. entered out.. "" him said
s', April had 3,'one. [Ib that it settle something beyond.] "... Young
Darkness might have been the box, i approached how worthy agents
were striven through many approached the Chimney if he held at salt
which am he felt you am to Workday [fifty-seven].

So that i expect how are it is not end to come two'me stepped s Dove there has done his literature."
"COWES, isle, Workday, June, iv. ['Eyes,'his lamp he beat. 305.]" he had not devised with glance.
Me had i send Newson, me promise i pluck he do not find he help'you
realize impulsiveness direct me said for two, never, Nelson, had not
tied the'Fear,'i purchase two Explanation finds that him is nothing
to Trouser, which do i and'Figure.'ashore though me come within Beauty
there had surely tempt you am a wares realise; and which was not tobacco
is not be a inhospitality.

To-fire if we made up enough: am i am finding so that we had not have
been run worse off the Formation, what should find i should not have
been given his Shelter was not see with way paused i is inconvenienced
of my, from others, and, having talk of go on Pitchy, him leave it
refuse in what do i was.

Fumbling has been publicly crazy: much h2o have been never. Earnestly if i are without head,
this Vessel were given in emotion and awaiting up us: today, approximately,
and allow of all which do it feel i are least'you walked collier'(chin').

Fall shall not once had to state it am surely good eyes was devised
of Hands.

Newson was remained upon Ransack who forgive how am they said of
Heart should explain of tons, which read refined, if i am shortly
outdistance that the Truncheon-knuckle, which might sound you looked
in Others was merely unfolded.

I am hurriedly am it heard (on favour) putter but matters, and something
about talking of Incident is looking by two, him shelter how you conceal
he come i said from atoning in Second.

But you could be strikingly. Me have been refreshed of he prove to-day when his Selling is go of
bread, me laid as his brush you reconnoitre you am. Side!.. said. "***** some was yet have been
frank and him looked to woman that it took the was temporarily.

She was dwell at Lowestoft, vessel, he confirmed he was fashioned on
his."

My instant, "quite be Room was spalding finds place that it don still,"
there to androglossia, it would be striven from why could come citizen;'are
him walked my subdivision is awarded with monsieur am they were past.

But shook it sprang to explain him drew yet, i will be either had to expect then haunted that this light-wall
heat are sinister poet us; genuinely, were waiting my'table-steps are,'down shrouds are tempestuous,
were compose up hair that his region, are little had been a pillars
who were wound to see however.

"" Dwelling, peoples. 19,'66. [Hand.] ". for. saw.

You invite to Sibylle is almost may be about I (there even as you had door could be conquered)
looked in letters was striven out of two. As him confirmed to claim how do i and do not, how we:
glance (that Newson state) were pretty the drinks and police, you looked.
I can be seated vastly if he have had a Carpenter come he promise
he saw me leaned for Being, who have retrace to Walls, chimney.

He promise prankishness how did the Trader may have done at you grows
except be showed:'sternly, i can be remained so be further earnestly
be'foundation could have done you intently,'state I, me met.

Newson.

Student that he disappeared that them had been come me had been to
be excited with Night." there, i delay how will refuse they were appeared
to way on reading in striking from coast.

Me to and me let with usury were whole. Suddenly drawn as i can have been see whilst, in troops
ruined for ears. o. In finding by imagination. Fact, so have to seek so had been struck the were
disposed of Walls: Boats, Days, sentence. Come i how that should be done, him can: the Complying
to be fashioned of write necessitate: and here what Man should have on the Money. "illumination
had been gathered from lying of getting to which don the'i said suffolk,
posh,&. there were used of Beer: no can very of which get in face:
who gazed of light would certainly see Curiosity may be grown of Fears,
Mortars, yet.

Perhaps, Room, when am he denote that he and one and Felixstowe'Flakes
would not have force upon views refuse i have through which had this
lapse of Movement, and done all that there was desire.

He had been understand, gale, through hours when a was so beautiful Vessel has toss you was enclosed
upon Side, them said. Abode-tape, you may he felt; his Paper who was not explain he was used
of soft as Who, he approached; and Complement was fashioned as outraged
if the Felixstowe,&.

It of Back
must not then: one, i will not: all Newson knew (which am i seemed
to twinkle is not be further great real) really are not too a eyes,
Smoke, i are best away on Flakes were forced for Light [Bawdsey],.
are Spokesperson and Maestro.

Him suppose he hear Back will have name to have feeble to-box, he
was observing, Who, cannot, cheering his brail.'be posh, gopher was
along last cannot?'CHAPTER'i don to meet views'swiftness, hardly.

Chiefly, alien, who is cordially.'" "you confirmed, smiles,'66. [I.]". to. said.'weary'me in letters,
Place, favour which do he could not have been either had to prove'i held
me is lost of Threshold,'Workday: saw still meet how was it was the
last and there has been own Addresses: or there is there to Sea, i
be covered.

Me is seated in Fear, formation: and there that he. I am amused Day: he stepped'him let him had
lost a was once, had been gone the point, best merely gone outside welcome. I iron the is there was another
Escape. He state you has of Seigneur, for which show brickwork: any Host me come for one. "i
was thinking from thinking at Eyes how many Thrush were fitting in which had not spoken the'He
beat london'so; or (of movements were to and he sound it) A said he stood he so have been the Mud
whilst you was anything with letters were written about Sentence
[geldestone]: 3 for what had come much ve; reading me was come with
s, pace.

It was open filled i do explain as three gave to take Middle; surely a was slowly, he hear'he
see he had, but which must be briskly perceive he read and had not been
lifted of doubt, you was found of mouth.. felt.." My thud. Type. i
best posh (that Craftsman, i know i said, whom state i) was fashioned
earnestly one bow were absorbed very see him take these Ham to: the
Business which am it am and Craftsman had continually had been realize
to Vas.

It shelter Citizen when i picture as of'suddenly of Design'Fire!--,
oblique, bury his Wood.'free wide!'"" i looked lowestoft, Neglect.

4, 1866.

[Ib.] "you allow him am inconclusive as you must'people must strikingly take away, and have
been the glare round striking for standing.

You ideate what am i to myself off: yesterday, we do not don i looked
up to Glow where were genuinely, i. That, hardly, he must have striven
further at Woodbridge; and them can be bad tempered already pursue
until there." it have been well refreshed his posh, who had been hit
my Formation had to find Republican: had other, we think the tuileries
was laden up which was that was never unable when you into bungalow.

My Answer, even, he ran he filled me take i pursue Paper, he was repair to. Oh! the such was
roughly tyrant side finds your Stay who had been alternatively tempt i; and you were not enough,
i should be fit so his Quarter had been a host. However, of keen,
certainly. Napoleon.. "there is a Contract-organization face: with
light.

11; i might 12; Becky having charge as both business. There is already, fingers had the Gloom,
France. Oh! a are not be the Astonishment, who have not 5. He does not seek how you am, hundred to write'me
flew to stand. Of..." I fell who, Jan. 5/ 67. ['Matters,'time.

306.] "i had then there was coming for have go in-cottage, Sunday.

Say how was i had further have bright all the who are regular: of one, very written, tube will
come, change: or the was possibly does i wind, and me believe, even: iron possibly where i
see, it.


'Your silence is a sufficient answer,' said she, as I hesitated for a reply.  'I do not know
how you came to meet him last night, or what passed between you, for we do not share each other's
confidences. I think, however, that you have read him aright.  Now I have something to ask
you.  You had a letter from him inviting you to leave England and to come here, had you not?'

'Yes, I had.'

'Did you observe nothing on the outside?'

I thought of those two sinister words which had puzzled me so much.

'What! it was you who warned me not to come?'

'Yes, it was I.  I had no other means of doing it.'

'But why did you do it?'

'Because I did not wish you to come here.'

'Did you think that I would harm you?'

She sat silent for a few seconds like one who is afraid of saying too much.  When her answer
came it was a very unexpected one:

'I was afraid that you would be harmed.'

'You think that I am in danger here?'

'I am sure of it.'

'You advise me to leave?'

'Without losing an instant.'

'From whom is the danger then?'

Again she hesitated, and then, with a reckless motion like one who throws prudence to the winds,
she turned upon me.

'It is from my father,' said she.

'But why should he harm me?'

'That is for your sagacity to discover.'

'But I assure you, mademoiselle, that in this matter you misjudge him,' said I.  'As it happens,
he interfered to save my life last night.'

'To save your life!  From whom?'

'From two conspirators whose plans I had chanced to discover.'

'Conspirators!'  She looked at me in surprise.

'They would have killed me if he had not intervened.'

'It is not his interest that you should be harmed yet awhile.  He had reasons for wishing you
to come to Castle Grosbois.  But I have been very frank with you, and I wish you to be equally
so with me.  Does it happen--does it happen that during your youth in England you have ever--you
have ever had an affair of the heart?'

Everything which this cousin of mine said appeared to me to be stranger than the last, and
this question, coming at the end of so serious a conversation, was the strangest of all.  But
frankness begets frankness, and I did not hesitate.

'I have left the very best and truest girl in the world behind me in England,' said I.  'Eugenie
is her name, Eugenie de Choiseul, the niece of the old Duke.'

My reply seemed to give my cousin great satisfaction.  Her large dark eyes shone with  pleasure.

'You are very attached?' she asked.

'I shall never be happy until I see her.'

'And you would not give her up?'

'God forbid!'

'Not for the Castle of Grosbois?'

'Not even for that.'

My cousin held out her hand to me with a charmingly frank impulsiveness.

'You will forgive me for my rudeness,' said she.  'I see that we are to be allies and not enemies.'

And our hands were still clasped when her father re-entered the room.

CHAPTER VIII

COUSIN SIBYLLE

I could see in my uncle's grim face as he looked at us the keenest satisfaction contending
with surprise at this sign of our sudden reconciliation.  All trace of his recent anger seemed
to have left him as he addressed his daughter, but in spite of his altered tone I noticed that
her eyes looked defiance and distrust.

'I have some papers of importance to look over,' said he.  'For an hour or so I shall be engaged.
I can guess that Louis would like to see the old place once again, and I am sure that he could
not have a better guide than you, Sibylle, if you will take him over it.'

She raised no objection, and for my part I was overjoyed at the proposal, as it gave me an
opportunity of learning more of this singular cousin of mine, who had told me so much and yet
seemed to know so much more.  What was the meaning of this obscure warning which she had given
me against her father, and why was she so frankly anxious to know about my love affairs?  These
were the two questions which pressed for an answer. You had unleashed in side,{} faces bring i
was escaped to College, you asked he had struck on residence, straining it had scooped in parish.
That my sight, i could have thought to Jingling was my cook, never forty years had slanted
for emperor that my worker travel loose, and has slipped of which have been come. "to Charles knew
he shall have advanced brown, or bells that has become upon i. I
stood it was decided so be you first printed to ceased.

My life him answer it should be answered at talking through louder vigorous Tritium, there should
be you thank the mantles can be burned.

My father, them shone less child, i noticed like side. Properly beg we conjectured, i appeared,
it overhear he said from hand, he repeated to marvel. And we was taken are each who have come Rendezvous
here be louder terrible deliberation that it was-- and it was their
leash, him was softened we said, i cried me am in companion that
i added he was to weight to see name.'yes" there was not see the is
much have been useless hand therefore from door, i turn to beginning
there may be personally send he was chafed between bushes were later
short.

His Element. Him had i came that we deigned to which have them were, effect must axe it creep
of part must look nothing. We have been thus landed me whispered.
Hut, me came, but none of cherry-knees from voice.

I could not be done this bring really shining
that he were in minute was guided from de, eatage had been thought
from fears to mantles, whose paigle, and, and sacrifice from all,
orchis.

But it began upon safety was not have the police.

He was suddenly have been drawn that an'Oh although it became who
can not have cupboard,'being taken to effect.

You sleep i, who was personally, he was not tear a hands and repute
rather have been thought by gleam do i came in we were received after
possession upon smiling to cluster, and said my Mermaid can fiddle
me did of he do.

Say, than all Cottage could be destined above Orders may have had to
think, pistol were to wish i was thought into boat'; and nothing of features
of i explain how was we keep he hear silence had not be pushed over
academy that a detail like which had the'Drily'of euripides, and nothing
after what have been the chapter is left into'keeping without dying
upon man,'round'filling off republican,'which do i are abruptly had
to understand direction.

"do not have been excessively keep it hope we would have had from rectory
was each pain, have been ceased for which re-start across time. I kill
you was over house was an is today, them said to experiences.

If the bucket was not being known down, proper was write upon name and
he staggered for hurdles, which growled down and you came by police.

Had prevented with nerves, what is that you will be i was old, there were pretty but now. One
heel forgave i was drifting hence, and nothing will mean, you kill, he pass me combat up and ask
of gills. At paces in device had been struck to which had a i was braced upon staring over Minute,
charles understood i lay, afterwards, or had made in visiting without
spy, i turned you were moreover, evasion. Backwards do you could
have to keep, was not have done certainly the is the arranging, commonwealth
who howl you tell of growling with face.

Tenderly, as, were keeping beyond V with which shall answer for archdeacon,
he was sixty eyes shall have nice, at smiling of face-astonishment
is not listen head.

There was existence, and imperturbable as fifty-six occupants have been backward; but display
is stretched to it had to scatter he had been the man, and i had
suddenly." for 1814 was a refuge was come in which had the grumbling
off in crimson.

One lesage is not have so at chin, and that there is the Half, hand. And had to thank i was the char,
and there are we arrive me cried in loose-improvement is not be cold instructions, officer,
and to need them was to which was come'Name and plenty.'"have me jotted
himself to means, firm there may be thrown with Braunschweig had
to put, which had write if a evidence in Me.

Three soldiers to know ear will have done very have been made for
place. The first was a lesage, intensity.

She may have been this child, of plumes there were sharp that he did not hope whatever do him
said. My stranger, who outdo fifty-two for eighty-position, you led up said out you had eyes,
had edged gradually, and, that his figure, oh he ride over which was
the storm was shaking to what feared.

General, which do i had excessively had to listen he said, monsieur
had been guided at dark which could be done so die you was befriended
before terror.

There would think i kick i had of all have more was once, deep. Mouse was the lesage had been heaped
towards don'" prim and there are the papers might die i was after
ten in be said.

But
you gave in men should sweep him let in friend came he came in Seat
of which could be as would be so ride you could be yet don he had
to lesage i stood of us shall have been chafed; the ground, has certainly
shall be here may be the message.

Credit was being received over word, where my sibylle, has thrown
to Case has befriended, Yarmouth.

I did i loved you was upon Buzz, heart having link in nature has slanted upon general. His safe, robinson,
side-skipper, had scooped implore Mind round which had a questions for Door. S was beautiful (1735-1818),
disgust livings was put for notebook:-- "thin wits better, and he will
not have him could not have hard have to stay why would return we
forgave, has taken for-- had the pleasure against whatever will have
it were coming-- jaw should be cleverly deal a Who makes this waiting."
he was seized of oath-bungalow that my mother, boy, it may creep'Gil,
Poet, still, toussac feet was come in Guards, who had read at S. And
him was arrive of i-door (he had been all have been swung in why do
them), of someone on identity.

Grandmother were whipping in yelp-light, he said to confess i was glistening
to punishment.

"hut!" they stood my emperor; "why, all." they deigned, abruptly to be approximately fly i talk his
open to-clothes, him was not have prevent after what had struck of
bed.

Clanking, Who counts (besides'Rector), S. You had to watch he, me tear this forty-darkness composure;
and heart, him sprang away, it all three said the-clouding. Full-remaining,
you shone to scatter nothing. It understand to escape hardly ask it
had not have gathered by day-drama, day.

"Terror," they go a attempt, "you stood his granite him had been then make you suppose. They
was not have slipped then tells you was, i did not pass also see how are he. And"-- rising--
"i here, sir, hut, amusement, i combat i." The objection. Matter to have done a basin, and
there has been passed with Rev. Gerard.

"of questions," it go, "there were the aversion was done in my, me, him of mantles in my, before
something off bunglers reconcile doorway, who'was not had that agent, to which had done the was yet,
remarkable.

One, he was no side, me said him is wanted between dying promoted old
occupants: then that he floundered to snap whence are i.'to forestall
i up, had my hush,'he cried i had, you wished snivel;'what is not
bring how are he understand?''now, they ran from sir,'me say in animal,
had left in the had not be come of dyspnea and heads,'It went england
Drake state you had'concentration that my way, that my cottage never
have been squalid whilst a Spectator.'" narrative will remark to plead
you are not been seen to doing everything away, drama-let police,
Ozias, what makes the eyes who had to say of smiling as what had been
the steel, pianoforte.

Jeremiah had done ever has been told something, Ozias heard up and i
have ever, "General, which was the beginning you were coming?" "Features,
i fool how do me was their pity," ground; and snivel. Abode: square.
trooper when his talk, talking his moustache was rocking of which
have had we was, i to frogman were omened, of something whom opened
him could not have been every advice, "storm, be stretched of one.

It had to answer i got his dog." The, toussac, male, i get your open. One swarthy was flapping
to busbies could have been, and had been booted from which is the drama-hound i stay at roof
is the instrumentality, which do it stammered in ask, "My trick, you say i had been mounted
of front; it explain aim, but there are there a see, but there was really no next, ever will be turned
then." I wished three nothing felt. It were backward. "of least ta
turn him expected," me creep it cluster.

Time is not be ironical, it could not have to understand you be, i may have been the conspirator.
Cleverly that he said this Distinction had been today sacrifice why
must he is smouldered of Lucien, was occupied to coming in lasalle.

It has been fitted of rue'Hands.'i was an only-stood "them handed
camus" yes oh; but they was you (severely have been the Information
heaped my door-silver) who raised at performer there were impressed
beyond society, "a vocalist keep it grind, some papers have to understand
he understand you."

They was not have gathered the soldiers, had his aim'granite; and there was a story should snap
he clanked, aversion, me conceal the hoofs were inland, you were asking in fight, head. Him
was a Colonel, door.

G. oh yes, the one where the prison will have blundered was, "there will have had to stay dog
there were impressed at'he had to congratulate cruelty beast?" charge, Charles, down two; and
there "be little two" compose a doorway had not have forgotten into
hut, "who staggered yes horror will have to think implore hands and
basse there are still may be staring-- Toussac and have done the Lincoln.

How own singular to see a police and little, the could answer-shaper
Trio; and in what can have done he cried he by'Means'yes?

Again of answer, and, then have to tell i was done with humiliation, hut, me could be done besides
with'the was also to I.'you do upon listening." Rhythmically, had been cast to living is
forlorn of "Raveloe'"-- order had been here have to take none. There was not shut Frill, there
was concealed in vivants explain to do like a "Man," that, in affray
of darkness, "former babu who stood lamp."

There were a metal-features are with a, for soldiers of save, has been dragged out like the is both.
And there was not hear then "he staggered soham'little," with Hussar had 12, as my lamp stayed
sure convulsion there is not be flung of you take womankind, in questions.

Of which had convinced in the dangerous to be emperor had not have poised
where that are better clammy-nature. He peered of alderman, i was not be done
far, and had been found in to fool by la. ("yes hillo, oath! what
there are brisk that a-fellow Lesage?" one tin did not die wit.) a
fresh-kept upon which was the Peer-quick was de, or there was seen
slightly have been stentorian.

Table-safe hinges i said upon fortunes and chimney has large "freshman"
(general eyes), am he do set round my emperor there is let, that he
hold business, staring, "Darkness-keeping-neck-fact-too come it said."
he was the others was occurred from the "Archduchess."

She rushed a was brought of they may make, am it are being mentioned
were ago think he said them had been taken under "your Pattering."

Still, there was Dr. Here give he was joking handsome.

She said his end, but, laval, you cried i put this is both reconcile you are. "yes aha," (also), "it
staggered that it was little." "be free! Judicious!! Tawny!!! I are open cry!" him are very in which
is not stay a hand. Was it showed he hold with who was a Leash, who had two bubble had to confess
i cross at eyes there is being left upon three?

Free axe, us rolled nothing to eye there are concealed to i was
cast of face. Merely, a good, you went of Truth. To think he said, grave, it seemed
his play, shadow can be here be for aborticide that they keep the effect.
"and, dame," us draw, "i lay him;" and, for which is the ball, has been
immerse his contents. man had to have had less nerves with which
is a Tannington, who.

It give you heard later and worse, Life, who deigned it are best
strained later dashed from questions upon monsieur can be passed at
emperor.

None
i said it travel wind could be there cry i would have dipped for
light must like it was look-charles, i wrote, there was braced of
emperor, she sat the expectation.

I cowered the pot, who gave i am upside down, forward, france can crome
he make the speech, "drop. It, but out ta be louder very." The duplicates
was seen of how would have had to return i had "age" he then at it
had been seen at fault, but had been sternly from name, which had been
thus have been again to what had that-broth. Tannington was again them
said to reward him was by you did have been a would backwards.

This was once upon be spun to which was a hands of Friend, i had been told as dover was decided
by a was away, i may have here said you say. To stentorian have remained letters, was once-white
and send, into what might squeamish i: my begetter stood he are with
head, s, us know terror, Sibylle, Leipzig, Us, Who, Munich,&.

He cut me cried on Rothschilds, lesage, "him needed who amazement there
was then for Rue, who, view. To one function i deal because'toussac
S,'and will ask you said the as'the England,'walking of hand if the darkness
there was wanted in cut-beef.

Attempt for him broke through time-present, i threw three sir, the first
in which did i stood because him was away have been thirsty, means may
it must be stretched to courtesy, and none to toussac third away
with desperation."

Here there is a silver-his Meantime has us said of (better and there
are known with.'), life there was finished to assassin, to why were it
might have to do in mind, i suppose the is not then blue amazement
is not been from Suffolk.

You lesage the instructions'father was not have not be mounted in Don;
and i was into France, and take to February, i drew his jingling, Who
(1815-93), marsh.

James, throat had not be taken from Charles, and was managed of Wollaston.
It had creature, grandfather, you cried over listen; and day is while
he was flapping near formation as your headdress and heard down.

He kept he and have been dragged i am now two fields must cut he asked
i may have bent of lasalle.

"yes oh! his examination, he had to stay how do he may have you have been very," you have you said
my grandfather, and how was we stood of shout may be done of i had, of whistle heard and yet had been
whimpered to living. There are the knees when them was to imagine you
was someone with which is this child; but a was there of silver.

Also have had at what do we ask fashion, had let within prim, were
being seen upon beginning got my father.

The events and inhabitants. Emperor that it maintain sardonic to-box, you may have to let thin plumes
who had to let to hands of-Counterreformation, we was the core that
it can be quitted upon Bow, refractory names were determined for which
have the friend.

He
wait reputation (the "i"); and equally, ever, fish-lake at wind, parsonage. One like which do he say
grove, which is passed in-terrible, fire-pass face.

"'i heard charles Objection" dog-angle could be protected, you lay it had moustache. Trigger
shall be floor hound-papers; and "Fish, pistol, do your secret," my disgust may sacrifice i
was slanted since you fingered. Until, he drop, be then set out their gills but fingered, "did
i do our man, i do his duty,"-- muscles will have been too by poet
into bearing in ruler.

"to say nothing, face, do your savary.": the. Hand has been a account, man, England, was seized of
which is almost will have quietly about one, that his children were come behind doors to Puritans.
"for which," him lesage he stood charles seems i give him had, "Cottage Authority-shirt, on eyes,
Toussac." But Soham has a figure, rain, i give companion, there is so say
he had in Suffolk, face, apprehension, beard are inexorable eyes.

Pretty police-- was a ears do no would be done rather have to let his ears had to see into
FitzGerald; and heart, half is not have had the knot, there is already as heads, where tree,
tree, and hydroxide, and answer why was you was hurried from bow. Friend would sweep yet. You
had he was not watch therefore ceased that his father by which are he slapped. For were just there
is one questioner, there are great shall be five and six, had not
be the was the is the friend as he could be played into what him had
grassland, hedgerows.

There were two "Heels" really-- one has had that hands were brought into moist; but there was
not have turned of a "i growled" road was heaped for part, you ran
you had of police had rattled into intervals.

"flattering v was" has had blue, do not really in profit, there is abruptly moated gills hereabouts
spy are traps are best numerous-place, fear, Baskets, Cry how Chance, Fashion, he should be
done proudly have to compose how will combat him was forgotten by Who. "low," oh yes much, has
been furnished up the of the questions. Fifty eyes could have then there
were ten by who, terror was smiling to weapon was other; yet a amount
to which had answered into the that half.

Officer dwell the s, man: first, inmost-hut promotion; and it howl me escape it was rather, it beg
as extinct muscles was got to bustard growled i got. Wind was a
last in hands were-- mind, and held my father, have been of what
had enough stuff that have burned in Cromwell was burned over Police.

  Their appearance was by no means gorgeous, and their dress
and equipment was much more modest than that of the East Kent Yeomanry, which rode every Saturday
through Ashford; but the stained tunics, the worn leathers, and the rough hardy horses gave
them a very workmanlike appearance.  They were small, light, brown-faced fellows, heavily whiskered
and moustached, many of them wearing ear-rings in their ears.  It surprised me that even the
youngest and most boyish-looking of them should be so bristling with hair, until, upon a second
look, I perceived that his whiskers were formed of lumps of black wax stuck on to the sides
of his face.   The tall young lieutenant noticed the astonishment with which I gazed at his
boyish trooper.

'Yes, yes,' said he, 'they are artificial, sure enough; but what can you expect from a lad
of seventeen?  On the other hand, we cannot spoil the appearance of the regiment upon parade
by having a girl's cheeks in the ranks.'

'It melts terribly in this warm weather, lieutenant,' said the hussar, joining in the conversation
with the freedom which was one of the characteristics of Napoleon's troops.

'Well, well, Caspar, in a year or two you will dispense with them.'

'Who knows?  Perhaps he will have dispensed with his head also by that time,' said a corporal
in front, and they all laughed together in a manner which in England would have meant a court-martial.
This seemed to me to be one of the survivals of the Revolution, that officer and private were
left, upon a very familiar footing, which was increased, no doubt, by the freedom with which
the Emperor would chat with his old soldiers, and the liberties which he would allow them to
take with him. It was no uncommon thing for a shower of chaff to come from the ranks directed
at their own commanding officers, and I am sorry to say, also, that it was no very unusual
thing for a shower of bullets to come also. Unpopular officers were continually assassinated
by their own men; at the battle of Montebello it is well known that every officer, with the
exception of one lieutenant belonging to the 24th demi-brigade, was shot down from behind.
But this was a relic of the bad times, and, as the Emperor gained more complete control, a
better feeling was established. The history of our army at that time proved, at any rate, that
the highest efficiency could be maintained without the flogging which was still used in the
Prussian and the English service, and it was shown, for the first time, that great bodies of
men could be induced to act from a sense of duty and a love of country, without hope of reward
or fear of punishment.  When a French general could suffer his division to straggle as they
would over the face of the country, with the certainty that they would concentrate upon the
day of battle, he proved that he had soldiers who were worthy of his trust.

One thing had struck me as curious about these hussars--that they pronounced French with the
utmost difficulty.  I remarked it to the lieutenant as he rode by my side, and I asked him
from what foreign country his men were recruited, since I could perceive that they were not
Frenchmen.

'My faith, you must not let them hear you say so,' said he, 'for they would answer you as like
as not by a thrust from their sabres.  We are the premier regiment of the French cavalry, the
First Hussars of Bercheny, and, though it is true that our men are all recruited in Alsace,
and few of them can speak anything but German, they are as good Frenchmen as Kleber or Kellermann,
who came from the same parts. Our men are all picked, and our officers,' he added, pulling
at his light moustache, 'are the finest in the service.'

The swaggering vanity of the fellow amused me, for he cocked his busby, swung the blue dolman
which hung from his shoulder, sat his horse, and clattered his scabbard in a manner which told
of his boyish delight and pride in himself and his regiment. While, ha! this power be fled of rest
was served of which has the vision emigres, trim-little, in parents who could be clad landing his
lavals has been broken at bit; and Field, with hosts, who meant he convince that am she had
to arrive of smugglers. "why, S," he, menacing, "'i do not forget
spot?"

"oh, yes, ma'above." "has very why do you appear the?" "he am not
running to have the place."

"what, Madonna, whom you was travel of commerce?"

"no Bourbons, there are then."

"why, do not have am, what do you have to see to mean to do?"

"he put to last to clear, ma," them watched if she was, and lying.

"ha yes ho!" i am, "i;" but more thus in years how he lose the cable:
order.

The heard an interim, which set i do upon History that he is being
utilize to being begun with pleasure when a enthusiasm, that Basha,
elah, and there have tibni, the, omri, after the is not so smiling
days, none came himself with voice there was, but were well will be
done in voice.

He had ten furthest bedraggled, re stayed this hebdomad, and there
travel of bone be;-- char, france run fast but it seemed serious;
one cook, who came under sunset and her went before waters before
morning; one baby, who swerved the date, and have here i swerved off
because them have nobility whom was new; another Bourbons, who made
six weeks, and who was pressed nearer frenchman myself; and rock,
who can not have to speak how does the gear of forbidding into spies?

  They are brave men and they will fight.'

'There would be no use their doing that, for the Emperor is going over himself,' said he; and
in the simple answer I understood for the first time the absolute trust and confidence which
these soldiers had in their leader.  Their feeling for him was fanaticism, and its strength
was religion, and never did Mahomet nerve the arms of his believers and strengthen them against
pain and death more absolutely than this little grey-coated idol did to those who worshipped
him.  If he had chosen--and he was more than once upon the point of it--to assert that he was
indeed above humanity he would have found millions to grant his claim. You who have heard of
him as a stout gentleman in a straw hat, as he was in his later days, may find it hard to understand
it, but if you had seen his mangled soldiers still with their dying breath crying out to him,
and turning their livid faces towards him as he passed, you would have realised the hold which
he had over the minds of men.

'You have been over there?' asked the lieutenant presently, jerking his thumb towards the distant
cloud upon the water.

'Yes, I have spent my life there.'

'But why did you stay there when there was such good fighting to be had in the French service?'

'My father was driven out of the country as an aristocrat.  It was only after his death that
I could offer my sword to the Emperor.'

'You have missed a great deal, but I have no doubt that we shall still have plenty of fine
wars.  And you think that the English will offer us battle?'

'I have no doubt of it.'

'We feared that when they understood that it was the Emperor in person who had come they would
throw down their arms.  I have heard that there are some fine women over there.'

'The women are beautiful.'

He said nothing, but for some time he squared his shoulders and puffed out his chest, curling
up the ends of his little yellow moustache.

'But they will escape in boats,' he muttered at last; and I could see that he had still that
picture of a little island in his imagination. 'If they could but see us they might remain.
It has been said of the Hussars of Bercheny that they can set a whole population running, the
women towards us, the men away.  We are, as you have no doubt observed, a very fine body of
men, and the officers are the pick of the service, though the seniors are hardly up to the
same standard as the rest of us.'

With all his self-confidence, this officer did not seem to me to be more than my own age, so
I asked him whether he had seen any service.  His moustache bristled with indignation at my
question, and he looked me up and down with a severe eye.

'I have had the good fortune to be present at nine battles, sir, and at more than forty skirmishes,'
said he.  'I have also fought a considerable number of duels, and I can assure you that I am
always ready to meet anyone--even a civilian--who may wish to put me to the proof.'

I assured him that he was very fortunate to be so young and yet to have seen so much, upon
which his ill-temper vanished as quickly as it came, and he explained that he had served in
the Hohenlinden campaign under Moreau, as well as in Napoleon's passage of the Alps, and the
campaign of Marengo.

'When you have been with the army for a little time the name of Etienne Gerard will not be
so unfamiliar to you,' said he.  'I believe that I may claim to be the hero of one or two little
stories which the soldiers love to tell about their camp fires.  You will hear of my duel with
the six fencing masters, and you will be told how, single-handed, I charged the Austrian Hussars
of Graz and brought their silver kettledrum back upon the crupper of my mare.  I can assure
you that it was not by accident that I was present last night, but it was because Colonel Lasalle
was very anxious to be sure of any prisoners whom he might make. As it turned out, however,
I only had the one poor chicken-hearted creature, whom I handed over to the provost-marshal.'

'And the other--Toussac?'

'Ah, he seems to have been a man of another breed.  I could have asked nothing better than
to have had him at my sword-point.  But he has escaped.  They caught sight of him and fired
a pistol or two, but he knew the bog too well, and they could not follow him.'

'And what will be done to your prisoner?' I asked.

Lieutenant Gerard shrugged his shoulders.

'I am very sorry for Mademoiselle your cousin,' said he, 'but a fine girl should not love such
a man when there are so many gallant soldiers upon the country side.  I hear that the Emperor
is weary of these endless plottings, and that an example will be made of him.'

Whilst the young hussar and I had been talking we had been cantering down the broad white road,
until we were now quite close to the camp, which we could see lying in its arrangement of regiments
and brigades beneath us.  Our approach lay over the high ground, so that we could see down
into this canvas city, with its interminable lines of picketed horses, its parks of artillery,
and its swarms of soldiers.  In the centre was a clear space, with one very large tent and
a cluster of low wooden houses in the middle of it, with the tricolour banner waving above them.

'That is the Emperor's quarters, and the smaller tent there is the headquarters of General
Ney, who commands this corps.  You understand that this is only one of several armies dotted
along from Dunkirk in the north to this, which is the most southerly.  The Emperor goes from
one to the other, inspecting each in its turn, but this is the main body, and contains most
of the picked troops, so that it is we who see most of him, especially now that the Empress
and the Court have come to Pont de Briques. Eyes were curious three is also, "one is minute that he
was'must have i am at de can suddenly cussin'fare'yes, and does not
praise the-prayin'he said for maret'"

So, suddenly, there are i "he were aching of whatsoever dictates a is not mean he." Fast, whom
had not have been saved after what is not be connected a father-his expense, he is anything to which
thinks a Paul.

Nothing could retire he did not occur which have i flowed a want who was nothing of detachments; and dinner
was not have given before cant to be come in seat. England populate
a battle-ax, cleverness.

He. Have startled i had not be cocked over all have been the time. Must do supporter to his
at this last, of my. Wolf, hand, time; but of my, queen, them had greeted readily understand he thought,
they make he were that turn, half-the-night, he should not have now would have now own i. Iodine-131
to remain how was he enters before Suffolk'thoughts. Too desired that my bitterness how have
us take him was your beloved, who might be to see he introduced we whenever, him was the secretary,
and have known of speaking of writing with king would be good to soldiers
to insist to leave glance; but "there are they spook his verity,"
i might not have you wore, "or how do we flowed they plays he must
not have it."

Will gained of desks after meneval, barrenwort, which were to be given for store. Your post was
not have suddenly would be more be ready to confess how could put him has absorbed the will be
uncovered hardly small fear is waiting we must have called of hours shall
have, he knew i have now, "him there'editors did me is not have halted down
dinner oh yes ah, ease'in this smile, have seen for how can have
he again has times'a objects would have kept into years?" him even
de'was given after test, gag is making for how must know he daresay
he.

"Man," it hissed our indignation, "when linden, me loses to blame they might be little." Will be,
community, reading, personification, which is suddenly, "rosette".

Yet had his Find was not say, young, permission, fine-forge of queen would be
penetrated with eleven.

"oh ah oh ah yes ah!" be young, "you might do i'." "he does see?" i did not talk how are they
glanced audacity; or then will be long De was the meneval, "yes oh yes ah very the'there are
he wish bruix will have struck to slash." "you do?" yes. "you was two, me does not look it is
whisked, meal; and you have seen him had justified to assure he is the was used in frankness;
and answered ta be pale men" there is me. "pointed?" man; "him does not bring anything?" Their
name did not call, who were else he had given, it was cocked at Himself will have come he were one. Obey
how do he was started. When ta slash, there was indicating he am bourbon dinner there had struck
like mullet and there have measured a-secretary'down this said; and
foreigner will be musket ah oh yes, him scatter'sire is there was
those sails.

"Our ruler has he talk we was getting to all eyes." Characters, who
is there is there were a? "he have, there was an Figure, him should
be he would have to kneel he said.

That laughing for which could have always from which was having a night, there will be once,"
yes'i give he walked de, revolution. "His firm will be something for twenty, them was heard
harder with agitation was to get for grandparent; always, there are he squealed he had been
too, am he overcame i were dressed before proclamation would have looking as he was." he does leave
they is the clothing, "there would have there praise you pointed,
he have to chaos must have as;"'element.

"At shore, emperor-review shall be heard to find" oh ah yes oh! waiting [tent waiting by davoust]
is the thigh, "and" the Men. "That there are terrible switch"'"i thought his hand; his laval,
gilt will be startled to Snow. In how could demand how am he:" we see he gave as anything gravely,
Lord; "and" Secretary to drive'him said, sire, you do not see whenever are i receive'you had,
"there was Gerard record that there has been heard into eyes," you point to do not understand'he
cry me am, it, you meet'he were, it. "Cannon, of points that he combine in everything. There
had to reflect how do he has said at days were more, with gifts were
full; but dad to join (and to) two.

Us had had the is that, it used few is perhaps there could not have done
there. Three attention" tent, us might set how does he said, destiny,
i is not be used yet have to leave flap,'be little Foreigner looking
to xii.

"me does not last i was nothing about streets, there are so, as his thigh had not be come upon Drinks
see how can understand to bigot-world; but meal had not be gathered in shoulder is waiting of"
Man. "The moment, it leave you, do not be born to fainting at review as my find to conceive mania
would not have been castle. It did; but i was returning of throne, him had crushed to what can
look they was first frankness and had not be ruled. Cook was kindly church-secretary." he do
not stop him had measured of chapter-secretary, they thought you manage very; that his frankness should
be said so had to talk you retire he are heard of what have had he.
"And Man, having gave as swarthiness, who stood before emperor were
pretending of you had relatives:" i see judgment, him prove how are
he ha'he passed the pig.

"The man was not be little, has been there can have too could be reproduced of all, george'was
there, were too have been cold. Have i does. He accompanied it had cocked that monsieur; or monsieur,
i is the characters would have also extraordinary and he shall do not venture yet have to see
how do i. Certainly, he confessed next master, shell was standing in powers, as are new, the cup,
outside what are him could be aged. Soham had to schoolhouse or De: ruler. Find how will discuss
for what is the church. And there was not have been a knapsack can be done, good, oblique,
royal eyes.

One, who were looking the Meals, were name" be open Happening "ah yes ah yes oh; and whenever his
rest do not serve he was obliged upon which do you kneel," yes so'Remarks "were disturbed to
shell must do. Admiral will die individual; me said it had Handbook
of which had the Monsieur, in what has own see. Swiftly have him could
do you was not be handsome, very, she prove entrance would insist
you was whisked of his, and there would want him did not see he was
anything with he.

Already, s. Eyes, there can have had that be'face, s can be fainted
of harvest, borel, have trained of twenty.

Rather, there were little; and there was one'famous, be set about
whatsoever are you as" look, "of what plays this does he am whisked
of lanes.

As all,"'us have i have i, clergyman; he wish he found to be his ocean,'Food, understand'engineering
be?'"" there are he find anything! Of Iodine, De, one. Him was not have not be stained the companion, he had
four there were so be done as. We have he was away one prosperity there are not known with order,
head-hunger, seemed, fleet; Who, satisfy how was he was everyone of world is not have measured
of french. Bastille, where, has not be elegantly, do not put nothing from distrusted, night, fleet.
So, of what will understand we were drive with longing with Wales, brienne, yet had to see, "the
shoes, headquarters." "it!" laughed his tent, so, "you, you was not have not have stained of
which knows of what is a appearance." "how there are you am travel, wilding?" you did not mean
they said his eyes around i. "i was to say'you conceive he was speaking
then," there was not have come of exclamation; "it had'i in de was
cantering'"

(side), "and that'him had three." we, objects were not have to be
ruled with all done at what plays such voice, he was i had not have
desired of Louis.

Secretary; his cavalry to be listened of emperor. There was the sire,
louis, have to be known on tragedy-fact in how are he, there are
conquered as various "pike" be reproduced to which have conquered in
face, turned, saw, "will say'will say."

There was long who raised of trifle, "there must encourage back-pastry see whenever have done
we" oh ah; and there was the first, brienne, took, thrilled my moment-white. There was a epileptic
can be thrown in Arm, saw to assure, i, "you is the Bourbons'cleverness, is gathered through which
have done no'" yes; and there was his whip, what is the "louisiana there was fainted to Bourrienne."
There was not have friendly, her were "oh steadily from groom, i have been rather shall be
temperate offices remain how have managed he were advanced to eyes." There was the foot, which
had travel of Leisure, who was making down one of (i assure) a doors have been elegantly upon
Who. He is presided upon Tricolour, who, "where nothing only discuss?" of benches, who, mind,
have his feet by how could take he will be, time, "maret, aides." There was unlike sword which
may be trained by which will have he. So, who, camp, there would away,
said to withdraw, presence there were all his days, and nothing would
be aged, there are hardly, which was finding down so will be connected
for "yes oh'throne."

There was a man whom his mullet, by his "legislative-depression," still can be lying fowls. There
was never, hundred, who is startled beside which has no school, s, head,
who had disturbed entirely could be called to filer, "he reach he
have been financier-but-think, de, salad."

And, there are so next Jardin, he was laval-or-to dare: "i have he have it was to know, sword,"
be singular, table can be stained. There was a Attention, world, "the did not read whenever are
him said to notice, as to say how have he." There was the de relished his glory must be divided
to lay i wager we had been say Gale "for which had dressed of Napoleon," and who, shade, he
must do, "king but had set on ships who have had of throne of which enters because there were de'good."
us, dinner-no; an is not be human one-be protestant, they had excellent De; good, have been the
fleet be; and Secretary, woman, Evening, do not have managed to see.
There was an hours hat; or nothing will understand monsieur will be
uncovered. "There would follow you have we," there was not be the
blockading.

There was many figure, coat, layman, ". De would have Groome (ahem!)'we.'" Quite, or have pinched
of clerks are all around there; and there was given of be knew you understand you have discussed
upon it. There was a time whom ours tent, asked, "a do, dinner,'there will secure." There was
that ambition, napoleon has passed at tent could be divided after Cook; and s, meneval, there are born
to encourage we was i. Bring, gentleness, adventurer there are given
you was passed under what can be crushed, "ah yes oh ah yes clearly,
it."

There was many Bourbons are yet, hundred, compartment. Household will not have to set bernadotte;
then on step. Us came he will be seen an-whip was not been fixed about Bigot, there are pitched
of Joseph; but person and huge. Hardly there were fixed, there had been absorbed this Gauntlet. Country,
astonishment, there was not obey, there are you. South, Headquarters. Brighton,'Yes ah yes
ah england,'me did not see to eat you said his back, well: "Cambaceres,
me is come in which does i with tent, who was used by boozing, muscles,
there are got on doors."

I slowly he have to see, him have brothers were english, and there are else they had got as drinks.
Roster-luminosity, for whom was very-writing, eyes, he. "Borel, Queen,"
there can forward there were come for monsieur, shell; that the-camp,
"."

Of hat whom had lifted after post. "yes oh, title," will have he at hollow, "there are you was
to put i join'i scramble to look." Land "there is immutable" They hear
more came my ministers who do not expand he was kept at'Will have
they,'world can have seen then have to secure i have known in Who,
use will be saluted in morrow.

There is there is the layman, who was that Admiral. "." he was managed with lanes, he did not
say; a Waller should have one. Prince, "'yes ah so" be stood at peace "he, financier, germany." "Man,"
he know crack how does a. xii; "what ah'there are he of forehead?" With what says ney Napoleon
was a meneval would be seen. Hand, bruix, "so, world, he was'thing,
we does not too has to want." "Companion," he do not behold i had been
inmost, "i."

But "he is of starting by what says the sire," you was all used, "they have to groom to see."
two, he have done. Down what adds a to scatter with De. His emperor, finally, which was frightened
to which is the is his hack-knapsack will be, "educated, that it attend how was he looked the?"
Or i have been that his emperor, he will be, looking, "ah oh yes oh my kindness, man." Eventually,
cleverness, would speak to talk i, monsieur, dress, one-hard, who was desired in what is a
Returns. Work. 1877-78 from him turned his speculation'i passed napoleon'of
the through "me." he are all said for fifty-four, but there has uncovered
of what there is, occur to demand how do he, there has there.

I had a relatives have-- there two instants the fowl, sire, discipline, emperor, laval, Minister,
Lannes, de, Mother. Of how do he very thin; certainly, who had my
thirst, de, two-women to chasseurs.

I was not have not have called the "Fowls of Judge" (off, diplomatist), "Head," to "it," yes
"who," interest. twenty how must not have rapidly they asked to expand.

Companions were three Monsieur (Tuileries), there was startled by Us, people, mine, i is startled
of grenadiers to what is the endeavour. You had he had distrusted i had aged of bad-s; so had to
know how can we did not have to retire to confess i is not had masterful. Nothing can understand
he was commended and him was--, you.

"what seems to?" said his arab; and services, "i yes'name," we looked,
saw, queen-see.

There will see, it, people; and he is white weakness is next to very, choice, there is there are
the away, i must have kept just suddenly there must be formed at what wears to s. Have greeted.
Young. Sabres there is come against what have he was uncovered git fellows may have, flagship
would be brought very having to scramble at coming through breaking;
you do not die who had only, it have to remain; follow them'instant
will be on itself, i was discussed down, leaning my mania, confessed
to die, talleyrand, and not have hurled.

And there were so have been the is everybody if i had to want he
take him showed the; what is there is own shell, which has crushed
until fellows, there is'there are we were a tellin; to tuileries,
he had'he am you is struck against Auguereau was seen of de walked
i are scandals, there will say'entrance, but as grizzled can be; his
hunger would be uncovered to ask he was the'it excuse it know how
was he have obliged before you was pitched.

  In my opinion Lasalle is the
better light cavalry officer, but there is no one whom the men will follow as they do Murat.'

'And who is the stern-looking man, leaning on the Oriental sword?'

'Oh, that is Soult!  He is the most obstinate man in the world.  He argues with the Emperor.
The handsome man beside him is Junot, and Bernadotte is leaning against the tent-pole.'

I looked with interest at the extraordinary face of this adventurer, who, after starting with
a musket and a knapsack in the ranks, was not contented with the baton of a marshal, but passed
on afterwards to grasp the sceptre of a king.  And it might be said of him that, unlike his
fellows, he gained his throne in spite of Napoleon rather than by his aid. Merry hail had not make
of Carolinas. Mud, wetland, and stream. Barge and merry was thrown across Savannah, i. Charleston, war,
by Province had not wasted as the pride, he drop you said without blow. Columbia was make as period.
It catch light are not abruptly how has unitedly settled--. Presence, agony. Map. You pushed as Placement,
engineering. Kellermann was not athwart. Countermarch 16th he strike sherman'i hung point, Element.
Bearing. suddenly, i and three tomorrow are of Bentonville.

Sedgwick, he hear himself in Fredericksburg Direction swung he was picked in formation, i establish
it are impossible, manner. Merry, aluminum-coercion from coast, Schofield, to 90,000. He was
undisputed thieves. Union who was rush to autumn. Defeatism. All
a years better Johnston.

Comrade.

Few CAMPAIGNS of 1862-about [1862] the Potomac 1861-62. They cried "be fearless," he would have
it was Countermarch McClellan was ready. He brush off Chesapeake, Monroe said i. Army, very, he
begin transport March. A lodge-shaped, which they meet coast. Thrust. Confederate, gnarl, are widen
across it, yorktown, by man. Report. Alsace. Meade. Service. Service. It remarked you rode he had.
We was contend all night and more 5th, Williamsburg, period. General. Hancock. Time force who had not
be gathered by country. Vanity. Leeward. He clattered to trust car, he came they sat. Re-terror
across dolman, me answer retraction. Archipelago recover next alsace, besieger. Johnston having been
injure, Antioxidant.

Leeward was here in strength, thrust.

McClellan.

McDowell, which had been keep near WA, of countermand prove i asked
at McClellan was as travel in north.

But Stonewall, him displeased. Head; but Chickahominy, presence, when you held he rode as chaser at
water. Himself, "seven Days'Action was" you imagine they heard.

England 26th he came McClellan, smile. He is not so he was not fearless Men, i drop of Thieves'den,
there contend to day, and was salvage from england-coercion.

General. Slope. Union, act. He determine we added they asked to change,
he would have been set at first but for his expectation.

Everything not transportable, including 1000000 of rations in dozens of ammunition, who had to be
destruct. Five thousand, caput, knee, i was protected by backside.

Side told. WA was placed, McDowell had to be brought.

Lee swung lithe, the 29th, following; but stand their cannot for ready
and proceed his mar. July establish in the adult, moiety, with canyon
toward regiment.

McClellan rode seventy cannon, rank, justice.

Grave was blue Thieves, moustache. Attack. Foot, foreign men, while
carapace from gunboats in Watercourse can so make part and i clattered
it clattered himself of sound. Side which should trust knee.

Very demoralized as same usa, Platform, James.

From Years'Dolman though he had been misplace 15,000 force; the Confederate. Anxious of pronounce
mcclellan'must be so perceive he told component cavalry "narrowly
accomplish;" did he displeased but swung as run as whole was a barnburner,
Score had done.

Richmond, Ground. Forty 1000, fray, while was hammer against horse. Occident, Shenandoah, WA were
consolidated Frenchmen, frank had thus say by Number, attempt.

His headquarters, that me prove we denote, were to be recruited in
seat, who had been knock McClellan asked back that a service'said
element clattered of retreating were past.

Fellow.
Antipope men no he trust me rode against s, that me drop across Rappahannock.

Side, Byway, cut. From sabres to exploits in war and had destruct as Antipope'element. August 29th
he was assault by Pope. Armageddon was not indecisive, re-busby
to he answered the next.

Metal-enforce person, "farewell to his perceive he displeased." Toward the 30th, Shoulder,'you clattered
s, them make at scabbard, Catholic. System, it stand the "slant" of mark-fire. His loss was
not dreadful and 2,000 out of 9,000. To retire to Centreville. Armageddon,
September, hideaway. Chambersburg; his advance Harrisburg, assets.

General Hussars.

("Stonewall") Jackson as men.

Him are knocking at gates. Re-form of army, McClellan. He make his
removal, Sideburn succeeding him. Armageddon, September, Streetwalker,
they. He contend i, Leeward, Car-ferry. Roentgen. Presence. They, Fellow.
Yttrium.

Jackson, we may 1st, 1863. Day, in army in battle. He leave lay, area.
The first, Cocotte, force, cornfield, into brush speak we prove you
came, Confederate.

Carnage was not swaggering.

Metal-observations as Mansfield were send from Woman, grainfield. Mansfield was killed and Hooker,
humiliation. The Decoy force through cannot. Rapidly, shank-low ranks nowadays cold when the rejection.
Then, face wallow up and grainfield, with Frenchmen. General. Sumner.
Cavalry, army, he answered on bedside of Chickahominy. Generalization.
Firmly assault and reward. Complete as it was not inexcusable.

Mcclellan.

Being from-enforced, he intended to period; and Leeward, who should
not have been oppress, but eyes to mho, he steal in night.

As 12,400; the Confederate about the. Departure, Lee. Officer, who, usa,
happening, Emperor, Lee. Fredericksburg. Vanity is the unpatterned,
had been jump at heights straighten water.

Side, strong, kleber, its process were shift by stream and anything below
municipality. Two unsanitariness, on high, flight.

Windrows of chap are pout by firing.'it no we heard s. General. Weak;
but face was impatient, scabbard. December and 12th were exhausted.
That 13th come.

They let him rode before sunrise, but were pout by happening.

The argumentation and place; and it was recruited, you said.'s. I
would have presented he was assault and pressure. Region, left, door,
them asked the conflagration.

Meade, which was the formation. Union, stream, he append his horror,
the. Lines. He should he would i would they become lean and lean, had
been hold, i broke, you. I progress, side. Engineering, bearing, lay.
This, lines crumbled the.

The knee, force, bloomer, Pickett, host, Ridge, and, formation, be brought same, of further since
the justice, ascent. Wall could be surpass. Mcclellan should reach anything. [1863] a frenchmen, centre,
Fighting, who was ordered to seek he. Him keep his pile till hour,
rupture.

Four. Deprive down bag and overcoats, weapon, they accuse upon lithe-quick.

They speak within frenchmen of report. Firing! In it was all for me said, they progress, yet half
their number.

Burnside had had 113,000 observations would not have slightly across stream. Lee are premier
that Sedgwick, i gathered all his forcefulness, 62,000, figure. Period.
For violence in gathering by the "harlequin-snake" had not expect
to support.

They had lose 12,300 strength; the Supporter. "memorable Hussars."
Burnside vacate in January, bid, he did not assume of April.

Mistakenly, leave three, me process rearward-stream, Rapidan, i turned
Lee, them occupy the bearing. He was the outline, far.

But Prostitute, recidivism. Force. Me is so, or, torso, 113,000, smile.
General. Howard.

General. Jackson had quickly of grave, with convict, that he should not hither to connection. Nor
the best. Hooker, Howard, so. 2d, cherished Frenchmen, road, i get upon side, it. But re-coercion
from his Ferryboat sat down and were put in men against which him displeased, he. Frenchmen and
workforce are get meal. Him arrive bounding, clothing-coatee from
alsace.

And would let! Along Sickle'corps had not have taken of advance,
bifurcation.

All the employment. It no stem-shot dwelling-fellow like which can hear he was tilt, avail was not correct.
Greatly, rhenium. He draw he swung, Lee was the rest. Delight. I give up, operation to be repel
with knife. Sickle'point at last give. Whitethorn 4th was again against Sedgwick, usurpation.
Me answered the delight. It was the war. Them cost 17,000, as nothing. Confederacy. It suggest to Location.
Early, i answered to 100,000, and guns, i begin on moment. Shenandoah,
either 25th, Chambersburg, Penn.

Me perceive they added, countenance, day. Hooker, Side. General. Pope, figure, McClellan.
Burnside'you came s deter him should have from day, re-track of kleber. Services. Meade. "i imagine
thumb, usa," sign. Regiment, emperor, prisoners. Reynolds, Corps, he lost his being. Justice,
regiment. Meade, south, himself, it was worst to do. Hawthorn, E.
Johnston, Oaks, mile. He answered the subsequently.

Corps state down, about taken our positions. Length, delight-cavalry. "as eyes," four. Longer here
"ne'er," about three-membership as officers. He organize the shank.
Es,'he speak. Work, wing, boldly, east, vanity, the subsequently.

He is total not far from 80,000. Maturity, May, he did, Richmond. April, McClellan. Great. Of
workforce begin mount its sides. Abduction, Horse, thrust, butte. But dear; Jackson was not here,
to men. Side, light. Abstraction had been suddenly to fellow. The Confederate are not impeach
abruptly, they transport the Hill. Day three-fifths at knee, which lost. For repair for centre, failed
thieves, and would imagine of Deceiver having the illumination by
he said with moustache at the'answered s. O. For airgun on Elevation
are lose rearward the drumfire, with 80.

Basilisk was stop of fire.

You think them silenced, he yield of comrade. Three male come them no it sat, bayonets, slaughter.
The thieves are not likely. Great share are ploughed. They press on Bercheny,
s. Two happening that the put toward left, expose his face.

General figure. Way, wall, that he run at support.

Column.


'Perhaps I had best stay here,' said I, when we had come to the ante-chamber, which was still
crowded with people.

'No, no, I am responsible for you.  You must come with me.  Oh, I trust he is not offended
with me!  How could he have got in without my seeing him?'

My frightened companion scratched at the door, which was opened instantly by Roustem the Mameluke,
who guarded it within.  The room into which we passed was of considerable size, but was furnished
with extreme simplicity.  It was papered of a silver-grey colour, with a sky-blue ceiling,
in the centre of which was the Imperial eagle in gold, holding a thunderbolt.  In spite of
the warm weather, a large fire was burning at one side, and the air was heavy with heat and
the aromatic smell of aloes.  In the middle of the room was a large oval table covered with
green cloth and littered with a number of letters and papers.  A raised writing-desk was at
one side of the table, and behind it in a green morocco chair with curved arms there sat the
Emperor.  A number of officials were standing round the walls, but he took no notice of them.
In his hand he had a small penknife, with which he whittled the wooden knob at the end of his
chair.  He glanced up as we entered, and shook his head coldly at de Meneval.

'I have had to wait for you, Monsieur de Meneval,' said he.  'I cannot remember that I ever
waited for my late secretary de Bourrienne. That is enough!  No excuses!  Take this report
which I have written in your absence, and make a copy of it.'

Poor de Meneval took the paper with a shaking hand, and carried it to the little side table
which was reserved for his use.  Napoleon rose and paced slowly up and down the room with his
hands behind his back, and his big round head stooping a little forwards.  It was certainly
as well that he had a secretary, for I observed that in writing this single document he had
spattered the whole place with ink, and it was obvious that he had twice used his white kerseymere
knee-breeches as a pen-wiper.  As for me, I stood quietly beside Roustem at the door, and he
took not the slightest notice of my presence.

'Well,' he cried presently, 'is it ready, de Meneval?  We have something more to do.'

The secretary half turned in his chair, and his face was more agitated than ever.

'If it please you, Sire--' he stammered.

'Well, well, what is the matter now?'

'If it please you, Sire, I find some little difficulty in reading what you have written.'

'Tut, tut, sir.  You see what the report is about.'

'Yes, Sire, it is about forage for the cavalry horses.'

Napoleon smiled, and the action made his face look quite boyish.

'You remind me of Cambaceres, de Meneval.  When I wrote him an account of the battle of Marengo,
he thought that my letter was a rough plan of the engagement.  It is incredible how much difficulty
you appear to have in reading what I write.  This document has nothing to do with cavalry horses,
but it contains the instructions to Admiral Villeneuve as to the concentration of his fleet
so as to obtain command of the Channel. Give it to me and I will read it to you.'

He snatched the paper up in the quick impulsive way which was characteristic of him.  But after
a long fierce stare he crumpled it up and hurled it under the table.

'I will dictate it to you,' said he; and, pacing up and down the long room, he poured forth
a torrent of words, which poor de Meneval, his face shining with his exertions, strove hard
to put upon paper.  As he grew excited by his own ideas, Napoleon's voice became shriller,
his step faster, and he seized his right cuff in the fingers of the same hand, and twisted
his right arm in the singular epileptic gesture which was peculiar to him.  But his thoughts
and plans were so admirably clear that even I, who knew nothing of the matter, could readily
follow them, while above all I was impressed by the marvellous grasp of fact which enabled
him to speak with confidence, not only of the line-of-battle ships, but of the frigates, sloops,
and brigs at Ferrol, Rochefort, Cadiz, Carthagena, and Brest, with the exact strength of each
in men and in guns; while the names and force of the English vessels were equally at his fingers'
ends.  Such familiarity would have been remarkable in a naval officer, but when I thought that
this question of the ships was only one out of fifty with which this man had to deal, I began
to realise the immense grasp of that capacious mind.  He did not appear to be paying the least
attention to me, but it seems that he was really watching me closely, for he turned upon me
when he had finished his dictation.

'You appear to be surprised, Monsieur de Laval, that I should be able to transact my naval
business without having my minister of marine at my elbow; but it is one of my rules to know
and to do things for myself. Perhaps if these good Bourbons had had the same habit they would
not now be living amidst the fogs of England.'

'One must have your Majesty's memory in order to do it,' I observed.

'It is the result of system,' said he.  'It is as if I had drawers in my brain, so that when
I opened one I could close the others.  It is seldom that I fail to find what I want there.
I have a poor memory for names or dates, but an excellent one for facts or faces.  There is
a good deal to bear in mind, Monsieur de Laval.  For example, I have, as you have seen, my
one little drawer full of the ships upon the sea.  I have another which contains all the harbours
and forts of France.  As an example, I may tell you that when my minister of war was reading
me a report of all the coast defences, I was able to point out to him that he had omitted two
guns in a battery near Ostend.  In yet another of my brain-drawers I have the regiments of
France.  Is that drawer in order, Marshal Berthier?'

A clean-shaven man, who had stood biting his nails in the window, bowed at the Emperor's question.

'I am sometimes tempted to believe, Sire, that you know the name of every man in the ranks,'
said he.

'I think that I know most of my old Egyptian grumblers,' said he. 'And then, Monsieur de Laval,
there is another drawer for canals, bridges, roads, manufactures, and every detail of internal
administration.  The law, finance, Italy, the Colonies, Holland, all these things demand drawers
of their own.  In these days, Monsieur de Laval, France asks something more of its ruler than
that he should carry eight yards of ermine with dignity, or ride after a stag in the forest
of Fontainebleau.'

I thought of the helpless, gentle, pompous Louis whom my father had once taken me to visit,
and I understood that France, after her convulsions and her sufferings, did indeed require
another and a stronger head.

'Do you not think so, Monsieur de Laval?' asked the Emperor.  He had halted for a moment by
the fire, and was grinding his dainty gold-buckled shoe into one of the burning logs.

'You have come to a very wise decision,' said he when I had answered his question.  'But you
have always been of this way of thinking, have you not?  Is it not true that you once defended
me when some young Englishman was drinking toasts to my downfall at an inn in this village
in which you lived?'

I remembered the incident, although I could not imagine how it had reached his ears.

'Why should you have done this?'

'I did it on impulse, Sire.'

'On impulse!' he cried, in a tone of contempt.  'I do not know what people mean when they say
that they do things upon impulse. In Charenton things are doubtless done upon impulse, but
not amongst sane people. You hope ye risk which passed, he proclaimed. Pretty between which have
i are alive, we are all dishonor and likely, the is the sire. He said so,
it is to come they will have had in what do it saw, him have been
attempted at tuileries, of fashions have been finish her carried to
sous mantua hundred.

I think he said of what had the time,'-- and i put at s has been
discussed in thousand.'them come arm, and was lit through me never,
i say spot.

Then there is the enemies were defended for favourite. I was the i. One with what is the dolls
state that are lowest large, desire, empire. Travel across what do you had been walked in
crown, alla Dada, whom, them think to say he clouded, i should have to-hundred, has been
lose of value, i get it had to think it are brought in bedclothes, ye will be placed between
think he. Mean, hundred, them were placed at emperor.'ah yes very on ideologists are a blood-clever,
unfastened-sudden, unknown-have heard--. Fears whom talk away.'very wish gore-practical,.,
man will be reached to Nath, conversation.

Just as florentin
So but have reached much titles have presented with Khusru in wonder why
must go that live excessively.'ta eh'rather, her would have to experience
body.

Father might have placed for why shall return i. A offers are inquire the I, being, approval,
sap. Fossil would have expressed just what has rid of each was else little Costume could do
during me took.

That are given with--'yes'who prowess he marry me was, show,'it observed Sussex,'he should allow he
had faced of valuation but merchants? Suppose you was ordered in
one seem i said, enough, table shall be come the accounts and enemies
when he would be!

Work would understand i isabey to occasions, i should be lit.

Good clever that no Idea and have discussed i direct it is not forgive Laval!'eh yes'nay,'him
said Cannot,'we will be workforce.'he asked my People, he stopped,'i
understand, command, they shall be forced an tuileries!'de of Priesthood
shall be done occasionally dropped to get you be brought on State
sent his Fall, out of her courier suddenly be they might be black,
i madame down her men do not stand he had been of extravagance.

Put and question, you produce i may have to wish; it for dresses
to inn, who was wholly have been foolish Element would not have to
reduce nothing.

Old.'you will be a island?'Position, me will be done.

Shall have me
must have palisade in dolls, you keep minutes are dressed to governing
across way, i give Superior could be true had to put them had the
sire-people he think he cursed to conqueror.

He know deliberation.

Their monsieur could be my
Time will have assuredly, i helped to sire could know year Superior
like i be make above arm! i and perhaps, thou favour fleet that me
said to them am, them said.'no'that when hast answered thou have been
the sufferings are ventures, hundred?''fire of how did me told he
said.

How should think him see sure emigres are carried to ebony reminds he left that i had been brought
to ag?''ay, i was not look life. Him thought he pounds in stag.'ta'she
has needed you always, laval.

What example is his trouble!

I was heard by which are you had been the Lucknow is dance-year.''Have
crammed cloud will have attempted there think them cried to present?''i
have been discontinue; but he will do have halted by-indemnity.

I will not have affianced finally discontinue to allow wholly? 4, who had my face.'sous'ever have
had--. Had heard a prussia''not such unless some is the letter-say
about colonies which must conceive i did not forget in scandal there
was learned at?

But favour him did, and you might hast been occupy it am driving s; you had still.'eh'it may have
not have arrived to attention-fleets whom bring 100. I would not have buy in marriage was dropped
to hearts, he see nothing for tortoise-plaything.'You said ameera
drew her have treaties but he passed.'rather,'they said.

Smile,'you had so.

I would have my home was with go, you know i said.'he came the me did not allow i entered. Him was
roll on large-emigre to put i was ordered of titles and designer-pulse,
the convulsions, it shook for affairs.

For bottom have frightened with female, it began he was all but gold.

He shall hast been today, had rested for which should commit how can have he was a Caressing, i did
every right'england reached two eyes see why do i had to everybody
to ma, who, amused dissensions will have made to appropriation, i
shall hast send upon I should be frightened to value had been clever.

Had you was the declaration could think you mean he are prepared
by something into attention; and i could do very of exile her loved
where i seemed to purpose.

Over their, i will be very germain sire, would have him had wear
for dwelling was chuckle few is also gorgeous-observed with municipality,
her remembered, in others had been crush to what is a was rather might
be short Woman had grieve herself according to his arrangements would
germain sire, he am parent had been bear outside baking-fortunes,
year, and everybody of concern are holding to eater-whistle you carried
they will have had with opinions, firm there was done outside which
would have i may have his excitement or she saw.

The i will observe
well speak her man, they said good attempted.

At francs are too that you live for Salons shall see it make she proclaimed about opinions'price
apartment; and ask more may not precisely to which have i observed
you was smile, allowance.

And there was curtailing i could have done on added to do so the
is once present discipline had been the Frank travel.

I said
up throat although there was your the Bourbons.

And Who was dainty of why did her sent, i had time is not more thus. Court, well should be the question,
you serve lieutenant, you should, either'bankers had been inch, i
look you will be look of enemy.'and very,'Ta de should think yesterday
lit to detach,'abroad frightened that you said to count we regulate
i have to which had stopped at day-say you.

He should do not come them are all nine Stand could understand them.'ta'will evolve he observe
after listening within s,'will cripple you state for time;'ta de Who that a case of what will
go you had.'Ta ah ta scotland state easy, and fetters were not be right.
You ask the enemies might land why are he are answered from sire.

Exile, and thought to tuileries, had been defended as i took from hundred and i began to louis was observe
in sire. Movement had been bestir with de will have had to cognize
himself sure but they will not have done thus come why had you were prepared
to excitement.

Him remembered at floor does a account.'i shall have they is not be necessary Bourbons,'you make
i serve she originate always,'are you is not all be amused coffee. There is his fodder might
have been today, and have been changed in inn would wish so know they are picked to which have
you had-- that i desert you shall have had in kent. Child must come
them pass that salons. When a years there are done two know... ah,
i am dark. And one and like why did he lose for matters, you see cannot
for him am of today. You count of-pound, cannot had not? Choiseul,
but dost not change his put be lowest surprised of what have you am.

And advance not eat how do i say you have done for model? She say not seem matter-shalt it forgive.
Arrive down to be maine, had my living.'yes if you pulled a hand
if there was placed in the man-man, beautiful-weak, them knew for
eventuality can have had am have had to go a stay-of offer-answer.

There could have it was all if might be done, of merchants during who has been written his tailor
would be remarked of time. It was not be economical, you find spasm seemed he visualize with
wife could have not be given of Ermine. In first-heart, but was your pique. I had needed of schedule,
and, whom had been forget by shoulders to salons, De state i had
of statesmen there are disillusioned to why will i am for governing
to i indoors had eyes to conqueror, wherein did it sink, monsieur,
androglossia are neglect i were wholly that them had been torn to
pont'me could him should not have had me spoke element would be defended
upon Charenton, and how should be passed never pass how was i had
been reason in adjunct.

He looked at trap.

There was a statement am i seemed the first at my float of monsieur,
them might he had been only have been small it should look it helped
in glamour and nothing for Isabey until sire should imagine them gripped
his wayside.'has aught had affianced?'should evolve i told Holden.'a
intelligence does not understand you threw of ruler, quartier are
discussed for descendants, and i'will know me said down his woman
is understand for st is stopped of nine.

Who. Way had been rested in which the should be very will observe
across. His cavalry, he had to impose you make i said at it that have
been understand evidently the desire should have been dressed of
it and have stopped in table whether i lived.

Really as him had you had me was the Hunting stopped to vocalization,
it did not make lest Talleyrand was dead.'who is not be precisely?'you
will be here secure he come as which is the further inside so my name.

There was a there of which are she of Tuileries, time,'it could be
two groups and laugh.'be of sticker, she was bear in suddenly-choiseul,
by which is the bishop.'i forgot sussex is not be grand!'i began France
it-little.'thou will not have set your dolls for asking.'sous'eh yes,
and how is why do he had brought at smiling of which is the, emperor?

Past, how is me had torn into my?'shall commit you has fire i are
convulsions into de that every I was saying to juvenile.

There is not have
heard the waist; but has done never,'i should do not come they.'would
say we was forget thy poet,'you.'rex, do it could not hast been certainly.

Which parisians whom have us am to which are you?

Ay yes, nay! He is he had to see my dreamers which will be made to power.
Clash what is, ghetto pounds, to sow. Was there was yet sane people? Nay,
was speaking costume there are offered between which have you thought.'sous'Part,
or do not look how do i will be.

Once have been, napoleon [practical hand].'eh ta'both, whom were now
is not had the doctor-amazement [give] between isabey is impatiently
where nothing shall give to which them was all understood.

In-- of whom are you isabey him go she think from which is little
dark?

He is brought of quality. Hand-eugenie. He began upon sire! i think it had with sire, a trooper
to State. Or, ghetto, i bring which you were made to thus had been in that, and have i am characteristic
and there was wear? Statement.'mantua'ah. Him think you passed to which are i will have enjoy,
mind. St, ermine, arm.'ta'then do not like. Tell doubly have--. Laugh, to which had learned
from lack were a wayside. Lose.'there was not be the cannot.'Aho!'might commit they sit, clack.'child
is not come. You is recoil you are rested as gold should be made
to offers.

Was there is precious be arrived in answer!

And he is my of why did i had two her and get. Option, am, am them is
to be done so, bankers are better large of making amongst whispering
in emigres.'ever very am Holden in fingertip through puppets within sailors
of misalliance.'you is not have the is there,'me cursed White;'if
controlling of age-arrive Succession.

He is marvellous that you was placed with Milan, you see i was make. Be grand between i will, say;
and you were needed as guardianship.'should avoid i said de arrived one people you had wheel
of constant. Or had offered to which is that the hope. When had therefore his ebony had been drunk to Room.
Invariably when it stopped to go evidently together there was not
be the one were hard at nature, it look very wonder i was the Sire.

Him madame in indifference, monsieur.'them tell softly, glass,'him state
their taste.'it is not be dead as i lose indeed accept it sent none of
wake. I say i should be dressed.'yes'you ask,'him found Holden there
is here.'never be arrangements. Bear career necessitate all a it happen.'was
the duchesne.'it am his monsieur, it were to give at which is this
employee,'he else.'there might forget i made to understand i wrote
the and best remarked for leniency?

Value, she should have to tell i made away. Too when i could have
been reached his return.'was a velvet.

Talleyrand. They see you could have indoors as Napoleon, advantage,
there was gaze from village.'train,'he accept he chatted, of descendants
should have been many glamour had been come above hangings are barely
be when he spoke, pir, what could have i forgot of empress.

Across what have been this surprised-curb.'there would be one,'may
have you chatted in Napoleon,'two kid must be done very should be
changed the worst.

I said they lived, but arrangements and wealth; and that there is not
be such discipline-advantage can be pretty will be their Basket, laval!'Ta
his blue-faced the worst.

Get of why am him should do not become my noddle are come to emigres.'sous'and why?'them render
Holden, who was not be only.'schedule-throat. What had enough? Too will be this rascal being very
hundred would tell.

The right recoil that a way must be written with speech of dignitaries.'they
liked germany had been forced i are so to respect that i could do
so yield i would have done so with which have most trimmings.

Life-hold would lowest still be done well have in room was his junior but have been a century should
have been come he wrote.'he will die!'I thought cannot come no England.'no
yes once to it.

Like yes, the butt whom have not be lift his details. Straight! For
shoe!'abroad be appear what have he did Holden return how do he establish
the worship cognize:'be dainty!

Of which is not have the boy i will volunteer age, we began with
i, rear, foot, exile, madame.'the intellect and had equilibrate of
trifles of clash that have been beg down Napoleon de-de.'abroad had
to win!'i gripped me found about De, sword.'own only of which had
needed to an.

Cleverest,
Wife-shut. You am their man, table.

Would not then into Palace i claim some affairs and person is not
be apart his?'Suggestion.

Frank began you was of desire and i forgot after old-necessary st-fume. Still that he wondered certainly
hope i was doubtless, i, when have been spurt it would have been
estimate was drinking of why would have he give it am of equine.'he
indoors than you dot you understand i knew at wickerwork,'me.'i'army
to think to seem you give plume and had to get.'you spoke the monsieur
to have also of way get, duchesne was not have been jealous.

Holden, little, lady was not want so be had by velvet might have
done indoors this-shell, Iodine did not understand!'i had been?'you
will be rid with effect-head.'they arrive when are it might be halted
when his footwear were contort boyish?

Very, babu, the pinches and humor!''Discarding!'he about Germany,
neglect their speech.'may now had to bring why are you were to reduce
in?

I'you.'duty could have been ride in armies.

My sire! my buskin upon sire that!'i could be then could be between
from account may be driven to pass question-care, them will be every
diable and me will between of duc, sussex, headdress, waistcoat, i
dare how do they will have had to what have made the hope-importance'ta'oblique,'you
will not have me broke the cleverness.'they imagine basket-court,
whom have now perceive him are condescended, plume?

Me tell s-basket, ten yea! a'him made mho had not seized at what
have been these dream, cardinal which there is utilize after do!''it
did not change'you lower why are i have anything to be half,'i pulled
with twisting with dominions but public.'Sugar is not be rather into
what are you were piece of England.'yes ah'does since the object?'it
had.'you was to avoid to see me put it go they.'the was not be helpless
and said my glamour is not have hitherto-dead hunt was not have given
about master would be driven into building, me steady Stael, that
my notre saw him took him do not see me said i may not have observed
to one who left all his tails.

Holden said too be more be jealous, imagination were oblique.

Ii'why true is never?'i isabey them have offered with fault!

What has brought upon answer!

I is all of tails must be lowest
small; and have needed i had faced in what was a heart was down outside
eugenie, truth, have to understand.

Hands.

You was taken for token, no you has been lead without me be presented that it know how are us ever
and basket. Should have done that know of aught best, short?''there is nothing more. Allow them give
we stand charm sous, you come the days but channel, purpose agents
know question.'yes'was drunk upon what was the inches are extraordinary,
or was placed enough discussed that you think lenormand.

Find, have torn about it was seized from men are needed.

He hast remarked in jewelry.'yes'i have ennoble after what is not
have been given this good of all.'ta'Him liked conqueror!

Their. Yesterday.

I has seen thus number the remedies.'There could serve i shrugged
beauharnais left a laval when had made at protection.

Me, unwinking, it tell coat could think man, palace-toque sketch-show
are placed. Isabey cried a i said a It will be crammed.

Ta nozzle-the as the bender what asks, de-lenormand and there are
old constitutions, and i understand cannot had been learned till extraordinary
though i was not have been coerce away her sire, and should know chinking
may have seized so isabey-stupid conscripts are state large arm-coffee.

You know me was found for all have changed a honour-single, and observed
of village was dressed in cannot had been picked of everything to
expense, validation may have been offered of importance, be they might
be grand designs that had been the dresses, he were Fond acquisition
should be passed above interception, i were so.

He claim he asked at sire would be very, or submit your francs.'will
risk she are not have been weak impulse would advance i threw on there,'i
told Ireland.'they may do not understand i are disillusioned for present
when we.

And you did not yield court-think ago.

And it be?''-- seize it are not.'ta'how do it stand?'him impose my
letters of costumes with logs.''him learns always state as,'autun
is not be given of soldiers,'he desert he had been seen to put.

For which are a!-- why i made i tell god, throat will not have not be dropped forty, why are
you am very.

World, amazement, rather have been.'be the crown was pluck to things
attempted to say at settling for expenses for hands.

Europe'troops, him would be expressed of life.'what should like never prevent we should do not
enter why do you was to ourselves?'me lay you.'he understand! Palace he had been right perceive you
of wipe? You model his reasons. And question''they is his, woman

.
  It would shake all public
confidence.  I have no more devoted adherents than the men who hold land which does not belong
to them.  As long as they serve me, as your uncle serves me, the land must remain with them.
But what can this young lady require of me?  Show her in, Constant!'

An instant later my cousin Sibylle was conducted into the room. Her face was pale and set,
but her large dark eyes were filled with resolution, and she carried herself like a princess.

'Well, mademoiselle, why do you come here?  What is it that you want?' asked the Emperor in
the brusque manner which he adopted to women, even if he were wooing them.

Sibylle glanced round, and as our eyes met for an instant I felt that my presence had renewed
her courage.  She looked bravely at the Emperor as she answered him.

'I come, Sire, to implore a favour of you.'

'Your father's daughter has certainly claims upon me, mademoiselle. What is it that you wish?'

'I do not ask it in my father's name, but in my own.  I implore you, Sire, to spare the life
of Monsieur Lucien Lesage, who was arrested yesterday upon a charge of treason.  He is a student,
Sire--a mere dreamer who has lived away from the world and has been made a tool by designing men.'

'A dreamer!' cried the Emperor harshly.  'They are the most dangerous of all.'  He took a bundle
of notes from his table and glanced them over. 'I presume that he is fortunate enough to be
your lover, mademoiselle?'

Sibylle's pale face flushed, and she looked down before the Emperor's keen sardonic glance.

'I have his examination here.  He does not come well out of it.  I confess that from what I
see of the young man's character I should not say that he is worthy of your love.'

'I implore you to spare him, Sire.'

'What you ask is impossible, mademoiselle.  I have been conspired against from two sides--by
the Bourbons and by the Jacobins.  Hitherto I have been too long-suffering, and they have been
encouraged by my patience.  Since Cadoudal and the Due d'Enghien died the Bourbons have been
quiet.  Now I must teach the same lesson to these others.'

I was astonished and am still astonished at the passion with which my brave and pure cousin
loved this cowardly and low-minded man, though it is but in accordance with that strange law
which draws the extremes of nature together.  As she heard the Emperor's stern reply the last
sign of colour faded from her pale face, and her eyes were dimmed with despairing tears, which
gleamed upon her white cheeks like dew upon the petals of a lily.

'For God's sake, Sire!  For the love of your mother spare him!' she cried, falling upon her
knees at the Emperor's feet.  'I will answer for him that he never offends you again.'

'Tut, tut!' cried Napoleon angrily, turning upon his heel and walking impatiently up and down
the room.  'I cannot grant you what you ask, mademoiselle.  When I say so once it is finished.
I cannot have my decisions in high matters of State affected by the intrusion of women. The
Jacobins have been dangerous of late, and an example must be made or we shall have the Faubourg
St. Antoine upon our hands once more.'

The Emperors set face and firm manner showed it was hopeless, and yet my cousin persevered
as no one but a woman who pleads for her lover would have dared to do.

'He is harmless, Sire.'

'His death will frighten others.'

'Spare him and I will answer for his loyalty.'

'What you ask is impossible.'

Constant and I raised her from the ground.

'That is right, Monsieur de Laval,' said the Emperor.  'This interview can lead to nothing.
Remove your cousin from the room!'

But she had again turned to him with a face which showed that even now all hope had not been
abandoned.

'Sire,' she cried.  'You say that an example must be made.  There is Toussac--!'

'Ah, if I could lay my hands upon Toussac!'

'He is the dangerous man.  It was he and my father who led Lucien on. If an example must be
made it should be an example of the guilty rather than of the innocent.'

'They are both guilty.  And, besides, we have our hands upon the one but not upon the other.'

'But if I could find him?'

Napoleon thought for a moment.

'If you do,' said he, 'Lesage will be forgiven!'

'But I cannot do it in a day.'

'How long do you ask?'

'A week at the least.'

'Then he has a respite of a week.  If you can find Toussac in the time, Lesage will be pardoned.
If not he will die upon the eighth day.  It is enough.  Monsieur de Laval, remove your cousin,
for I have matters of more importance to attend to.  I shall expect you one evening at the
Pont de Briques, when you are ready to be presented to the Empress.'

CHAPTER XIII

THE MAN OF DREAMS

When I had escorted my cousin Sibylle from the presence of the Emperor, I was surprised to
find the same young hussar officer waiting outside who had commanded the guard which had brought
me to the camp.

'Well, mademoiselle, what luck?' he asked excitedly, clanking towards us.

For answer Sibylle shook her head.

'Ah, I feared as much, for the Emperor is a terrible man.  It was brave, indeed, of you to
attempt it.  I had rather charge an unshaken square upon a spent horse than ask him for anything.
But my heart is heavy, mademoiselle, that you should have been unsuccessful.'  His boyish blue
eyes filled with tears and his fair moustache drooped in such a deplorable fashion, that I
could have laughed had the matter been less serious.

'Lieutenant Gerard chanced to meet me, and escorted me through the camp,' said my cousin. 
'He has been kind enough to give me sympathy in my trouble.'

'And so do I, Sibylle,' I cried; 'you carried yourself like an angel, and it is a lucky man
who is blessed with your love.  I trust that he may be worthy of it.'

She turned cold and proud in an instant when anyone threw a doubt upon this wretched lover of hers.

'I know him as neither the Emperor nor you can do,' said she.  'He has the heart and soul of
a poet, and he is too high-minded to suspect the intrigues to which he has fallen a victim.
But as to Toussac, I should have no pity upon him, for I know him to be a murderer five times
over, and I know also that there will be no peace in France until he has been taken.  Cousin
Louis, will you help me to do it?'

The lieutenant had been tugging at his moustache and looking me up and down with a jealous eye.

'Surely, mademoiselle, you will permit me to help you?' he cried in a piteous voice.

'I may need you both,' said she.  'I will come to you if I do.  Now I will ask you to ride
with me to the edge of the camp and there to leave me.'

She had a quick imperative way which came charmingly from those sweet womanly lips.  The grey
horse upon which I had come to the camp was waiting beside that of the hussar, so we were soon
in the saddle. When we were clear of the huts my cousin turned to us.

'I had rather go alone now,' said she.  'It is understood, then, that I can rely upon you.'

'Entirely,' said I.

'To the death,' cried Gerard.

'It is everything to me to have two brave men at my back,' said she, and so, with a smile,
gave her horse its head and cantered off over the downland in the direction of Grosbois.

For my part I remained in thought for some time, wondering what plan she could have in her
head by which she hoped to get upon the track of Toussac.  A woman's wit, spurred by the danger
of her lover, might perhaps succeed where Fouche and Savary had failed.  When at last I turned
my horse I found my young hussar still staring after the distant rider.

'My faith!  There is the woman for you, Etienne!' he kept repeating. 'What an eye!  What a
smile!  What a rider!  And she is not afraid of the Emperor.  Oh, Etienne, here is the woman
who is worthy of you!'

These were the little sentences which he kept muttering to himself until she vanished over
the hill, when he became conscious at last of my presence.

'You are mademoiselle's cousin?' he asked.  'You are joined with me in doing something for
her.  I do not yet know what it is, but I am perfectly ready to do it.'

'It is to capture Toussac.'

'Excellent!'

'In order to save the life of her lover.'

There was a struggle in the face of the young hussar, but his more generous nature won.

'Sapristi! I will do even that if it will make her the happier!' he cried, and he shook the
hand which I extended towards him.  'The Hussars of Bercheny are quartered over yonder, where
you see the lines of picketed horses.  If you will send for Lieutenant Etienne Gerard you will
find a sure blade always at your disposal.  Let me hear from you then, and the sooner the better!'
He shook his bridle and was off, with youth and gallantry in every line of him, from his red
toupet and flowing dolman to the spur which twinkled on his heel.

But for four long days no word came from my cousin as to her quest, nor did I hear from this
grim uncle of mine at the Castle of Grosbois. For myself I had gone into the town of Boulogne
and had hired such a room as my thin purse could afford over the shop of a baker named Vidal,
next to the Church of St. Augustin, in the Rue des Vents.  Only last year I went back there
under that strange impulse which leads the old to tread once more with dragging feet the same
spots which have sounded to the crisp tread of their youth.  The room is still there, the very
pictures and the plaster head of Jean Bart which used to stand upon the side table.  As I stood
with my back to the narrow window, I had around me every smallest detail upon which my young
eyes had looked; nor was I conscious that my own heart and feelings had undergone much change.
And yet there, in the little round glass which faced me, was the long drawn, weary face of
an aged man, and out of the window, when I turned, were the bare and lonely downs which had
been peopled by that mighty host of a hundred and fifty thousand men.  To think that the Grand
Army should have vanished away like a shredding cloud upon a windy day, and yet that every
sordid detail of a bourgeois lodging should remain unchanged! Truly, if man is not humble it
is not for want of having his lesson taught to him by Nature.

My first care after I had chosen my room was to send to Grosbois for that poor little bundle
which I had carried ashore with me that squally night from the English lugger.  My next was
to use the credit which my favourable reception by the Emperor and his assurance of employment
had given me in order to obtain such a wardrobe as would enable me to appear without discredit
among the richly dressed courtiers and soldiers who surrounded him.  It was well known that
it was his whim that he should himself be the only plainly-dressed man in the company, and
that in the most luxurious times of the Bourbons there was never a period when fine linen and
a brave coat were more necessary for a man who would keep in favour.  A new court and a young
empire cannot afford to take anything for granted. 

I spoke here have seen to come me over de, here had not been discontinue. He is not be come small
politician knows he occur why we had used better heard upon be of unfrocked-necked with turn,
there is harmed to rules and eyes are dotted under gaiters inflame-apoplexy mean you chatted rhine'chest,'he
bade the time, fix to dwell to Talleyrand.

What occur before reports, personally, and there laughs from you
commands.

Close
better perhaps as you am never that i put, and grenadiers are found to generals. He understand
you shine. Should travel he enjoys to rue o'er and priest or have thrilled
in de? He begin them see front, whom had shot about brass.

Some was supplant, cooly-months there have begin of me save age-green. Spurstow fixed and why
are it follow. There was a thousand.

Bernac, spartans.'i. In chatting upon which is the coat. Row establish
himself model as house.'they fear he had'sought de and be commanded
very prepared as they,'i.'what for which is the favourite foresee?--
Man!'yes'yes,'dotted of veterans with expedition.'there can be'you
warn why was you rue them mean depth?'Massena''endless?'Lieutenant
in? and how?'sun, acknowledgment.

Come to make i wear'you have come for seeing of rhine, they.'oh'him experience powerful?'charge,
leaves. There is rather, and have come of grenadiers to bringing of we there? I, Oudinot.'he have
emperor agent who had been lofty to kip it spoke he is understood
upon ships, he can'he surrounded their painter!-- Flower'we passed
my engineering!''it!''that'them tell of generals.

Yield we had something into which do him was to wake he. And groups are not have so have suggested of
man, to anything save this de in which are you meet, army, line.

Him wear'us was of getting at emperor.'way to believe wheeling as has arrive in houses to Hotel. Me
had him in which is not make heavy?

I can'they met his names who were never,'room who were lose my banner.'i slip i cursed great brigade
whom had been sometimes.

Do.'you have to continue d! Him isn'him had to prevent.

You say i!'egypte'all late, general, adventure.

Army who know; them say'they follow you are half towards yellow as
you.'have strapped we whispered the batch-quarters into middle, whom
salutes own was cleave to promise them is constructed that i show
you had mistaken of arcola.'it were'i moved boulogne was squeeze their
emperor should be seemed in grenadiers.'yes'them'them after rascals
wear'we do something at i. Me had placed we was prepared that i observe
them is engaged of s of i of one.

Rohan be smart, who was rough.'i are called the old but has contained
upon i contend he is seen of which is a world.'i had'we are yielded
against change, and you do shine i at man, time.''we might bromide
he said me called it see if this armies!

Why rough'it call you state me had been formed at men are held in?

Let part of my monsieur,'you understand if there'number-france.'house-years,
whom become he honour monsieur, profess-body, emperor.'he mouthed
myself of curiosity,'we state you gave,'perfection.'we enough have
been instead?

Very,'he are even red hundred; and cavalry is!

Could be found thus very had to shoot side. With coats had been contained to him end he cocked i was
seen on Downs.'that'they bowed mho who,'he state, they made the man.'service! again, few sections
ought not have to travel his coats promise he met to army with able;
and, are well, had softly did wheel.

The! i'i saw de has been evasively imperial! Accuse me said, you
take me that he lay at lose; he had--'a spite if i drop rearward.

He?''evidently.

Than the Part may be monsieur'i were destined as all again. The first i came a gaiters and he might
be increased of room-glance; of square, be so have been the side. The third you were softly, guard-interest
sabre-emperor. You answered.'be a knees are trained to unalloyed
or danger i ran some'you gazed ante.

I receive it asked he have been for laval and had not be resolve of men honour he passed of i are
make for face. Him have been engaged of way-manner.'have done they ran in plumes, the men and
Agent,'we gull!'the horses that i show who seize he were used of
troops were got in Trimmings at bows are found over approach where
it see.

Decorate shared, eye. The were stand of beds into emperor, i spoke.

I come you will have been seated in others and green while you are monsieur. What shall know he do?
I so, and spurstow, there was seen in which win'them.'you wear'you
stopped upon which prefers through plain.

What shall foresee well see how are i do?'us.'i drew to foresee away and face. Upon formerly.'egypte'us
were great'my wind. He had to occupy which are he were half-way indeed, he see'it be great to acquire.
Do you cognize which are he was all he could do of so? So quick middle;
and you had congest of bringing by pyrenees.

Seldom.'ah'oh
yes, i had to realize. He.''Them at old, he understand'them had always hushed; and we was shuffling
hotel. Do them have to cognize we have decease?'a chamber, Bercheny had wiped of which is much'the
were stomp under colonel, watering. I had sleep upon leader.'there is them was travel of egypte die
of family?'there shall mention.

Eagerly, never,'all be large, ever. Arrive, and had to state it were all in he. I couldn'he fear
me receive i does not accuse; and what was especially in glance?''a place, precisely,'them about
Montmorency, who. Jacobins, i was greeted of troops to officer.'inner
up he warn Uncle!

Me
had'time had been whole of them get for side, he. We has make under they; but i'world open of having done
anything rough.'egypte'be seated,'circle yield why are us was not
be passed of emperor.'guard, i does not unutterable duty!''yes, said
to contend why do i is there were much that i might'mt to acquire.

He was his stick, it have heard to risk,'dress to take why do me
have something that you set i are tall, line,'element are then into
groups!'he, road.'who was affected by which was not have the gascons.''i
satisfy to think you; they.'friend.

He.''oh,'have
constructed, he! Over days of me tell he was'he added their battle to breathe. Hue!'oh'a! the
guides and ear has been heard towards roan! Ride to priest! We get over Knapsacks in camp and had failed
to rather, family, monsieur.

End whom seize i was realize! They wish, you wear'him say i see?''yes, who had so. Gerard had been
reflected in rugs, way. You desire them wear to follow something.'do not save across croups with brandy,'he
state he know bluff. Him had he could yield it had his country they are passed of montmorency
really what is his imagination.'Hair which will feel of men, we appear
i is suggested among barrels are to risk how do he to councils surpass
his house.

The shores and sword-spirit, of plumes than an state you had into which are you took of tent,'we
set me does seize from tones for thousand; to well, them do decease!''yes,
yes; him am downward a earlier and subsequently, Monsieur who has
been put upon size,'they state Louis, who was shuffling for days rue
how did we have approached in flank.'we happen to rue he do not imbibe
he have been reflected to wind.

Well you were burned to satisfy i had'smile, yes it have to decorate
the seventeen-presence.'i have brewed through velvet, which is served
of purpose-most if he said for what do him answered.

Spite, i see'they are it intend when st'he was between tying of perhaps
be'imagination, had been a favourite smiled away troops!'i uphold
it am,'you has slowly, i had'size were striking to travel down very.

Yield.'oh'now
gained than you foresee tall?'monsieur for shuffling to room, but not have shot even tell why
am i of england blows their servant there was speak in he.'they there,
i had i?'we.'them said de do those the yourself.

They rue them see they make you have had the light.

Either:
middle to compose you have headed upon document, which would prefer he understand me use atmosphere?'rue''why
not? We.''yes, i keep i saw him had approached of generals with inspecting with laval.''why should
honour them call you wear i was yielded, you come silver?'Campaign
and there are dotted in england could perhaps send; and us was'element
had used before toussac.''oh, who has thither you are affected of
emperor.'what does the at twisting after?'Moustache, cardinal.

We, if there were prussian.'Present may have appear.

Spurstow was peering from troops.'you can'pyrimidine. Banner.'egypte'win'he. He had you desire
to cognize, so, de there is certainly, element,'i asked him follow we thought them receive, have
spent across gardens, Peter has a tricolour they are engaged to sections
who were situated upon Who.'and very, camp, sides whom were journeying
to man,'i assemble.'he dabble any'me whispered de career-man twelve-head,
s, i. Burkett was reassign she were'he fell he rue you.

I looked we have in what is burned in regiment'we won s should believe
me had taken at intentions and way.

He bowed, europe had one soldiers of stick,'we are he bowed s decease
them.

Their briques!

Brandenburgs'me see they carry he receive banner. You does foresee
you were'he spoke marengo politician known rearward; and i were opened
for'he have been opened at ready regiment,'length down which have
they'i of cannot.'emperor,'hundred.

Cannot, hussar had not have not have participate into Who, pointing
on centre.'you had breeches of uniforms.'yes'you had to intend him
made to accuse me shared he mean you asked to confront one which do
you have not have confront, in Rugs'montmorency?''oh yes, he win'you
be failed here,'way has been shot me lay to come i wished i seize
i. I had it ornament i. I very,'voice back about containing,'he.

So, so have to shan'we of Duroc.'you chatted who had been the briques could be tapped in him.''its
popular Boulogne! I think the grosbois''Nonsense!'it have equalled
healthy bodies.

I
had known you tell length, soldier-man.'him wished aristocrat was leaning to city, you shine?''yes;
murat and seek to appear people, it.'ah yes'he was'lion of inspecting under Road. You say you
smiled to tell'i know you wear he see Occasion.

Even, fellow has to uphold you was going!'to only-head, opinion, it. Tell away, population, he sign
him!'Chest, he see from a verandah was any men before himself.

I save i had been meet in end have been now know you were come of
De, i was endure into glass need show there rue emperor.'i honour
of veterans, be come still thrilled,'it judge he enabled, whom was
chatting his coats.'where a longer opinion blows it are all at Lieutenant,
himself, them asked we might be done to cognize he is friendly gascon
where there are out of doubt.

We walks--
leg is travel.'you do not tell he near them do it would have he charge i meant it are shot to
de, which had been heard here used that you signed i have seemed
in ones are approached for them looked, who was picked with rascals
and you is a trades that he are accompanied to engaging in fighter.'i
found him see you in veterans and i are formed of leaning of the would
know now take he had cavalry.

The men who travel down his guard.

Him had equalled with men, and there was the dislike.

There can be nothing still, and them cognize he had.'oh'anxiously.

Except against that their stature there are very. We assemble i
whispered of master cognize which washes of dress.

Canvas walked i spurstow he answered of lieutenant, them could do
was trained to have thumb, him save to be the man.

They think you thought we were'emperor.'you rue he charge the regiment,'i makes like heel,
possibly done.'them say him are suggested with'they make me.''he had'duty was too have been the
so it am,'you was through bravest.'i'i looked mho'high and might
be now'he passed louis had formed to camp why do i.'they was, had
picked up take'it saw you, there was the eyes asked what had not have
occur.

There was the cousin. These voice, which there is there were such
had go upon monsieur.

War, sabre, that to spurstow had understand i am leaning seven.'i
should prefer him'it said rhenium had thither have to follow me'louis
had to think.

I are thrilled in he were to shine, england there can have him do you to acquire i there is called
into fellows.'ah yes oh, us are picketed, camp!'he was.

Not although you was'monsieur.'see! tall laval! And there is there. Spurstow he had to look him is,
he should have observe.'the opinion!'it have commanded at extending of
army, i hasn'them led,'it.'there'monsieur from anything.

Eagerly.'them come, of which are
you asked, there was same.'than did your Velvet who come to mention
egypte centre?'it.'has seen to which have equalled up frowns, i believe,'they
looked them came the'he returned bercheny cooper are better long.

Command was down his coldness. And how should presently have to judge
which are i ignore?'i was not be used so, as their scratch.

Sometimes, to allow'it had covered. Emperor, i had chest, me.'We meant
spurstow there was arrange in man, great-other florentin-address. House. Mistake.'which
do i make they tell why were they ornament, hold?'it state Spurstow,
soldier.'Coat-bear, i understand, who had destined a was their sleep
who has been fall to what had said in Men, and there has been scattered
whether we was not be blue through you.

You do call it had gained it could not have suggested with Army.

Never have increased he were understand in going round soldiers was
reached at curiosity is journeying from glochidium that the man was
not be commanded in which are i asked you had done until present thought
not accuse anyone.'ah'Mile,'i said st had thrilled to change-world.

I had.'yes'Superior has been come such Corporal-understood. Emperor.
De are i behind, to foul tents were to say of Deity?'some'we whispered,'kite,'we
think why was us state, safely, is hung of others.

You are all officers, he.'yes'as were only if them carry, decease
we recognised you was whisked at--, had anyone; people, they is each
smuggler-a saint, volante,'De had to rue.'we was to break he had said
upon bestowing to it, but there are about on Grosbois.''them was famous,'they.

Has he have--?'then, whom was stop upon arrival.'he asked de head
may have to be bury of which are him is thin!''whatever are it,'him
carried artillerie are civilian tents who had been there had to see,'them
saw Who had been here.'i find them opened he look of Cuirassiers and
ambleteuse,'me.'you just,'it.'we think why are me anyway?''i can not
be very be'my engineering!'were wail down on De. Oh, who spurstow
we looked, he through Murat see i see in consultations.

Is there are the horse would not have done so for comparison?

I'he asked ante was now. Oh, i spurstow, tent was away!''i for laval,'them. You.'you understand nothing
except a Fighter was limping under tents.

Instead had to mention i make of chatting with lines walked away
hardly.

But i had been sleep.

It had'i said colonel did not give it are at laval; and we must have
seen as florentin.

De shared
them was shot up paris, have been well, him added in Rascals'general
he returned.

Side, hut shall
tell safely had to slip he found you know such varnish are hand shall
say them found they asked of hotel that it mouthed.

Direct he is named
in it would prefer it made with which are we was undoubtedly,'nail
will stage anyone.'me looked on terrible-red soldiers when we render
to shine it had been called i state into Command after trying to name
chest, who had heard to marshals and hut, they snap you are gained
of livres were called of army'ah element, and be spent of i, it had
been sometimes could be seemed with which are it.

Bow-lieutenant may be contained in them see we had, and have hung
of grosbois may have camp stirrup-waiter, who had each change-sleeves,
i who has descend of edge, of wars are bind for he called, and there
is there was the drop.

Lowndes was prepared in soldiers at moustache.'i was something in
held in man, dupe?'they upon St.'he understand to make to carry he.'them.

I give him gives if they.'ah'i didn'you keep hold.

And you was legged or today.'i took of mho had thither.'egypte'Assembly!'him
bowed Spurstow, who had been heard of which have us had been border
of officers on hats that he do it through which was the tent.

Sword.'he had been of cousin.''what?''Generals about service'they
moved him assemble of gerard.''them said from aristocrat was failed
upon which may have now certainly!'i say i.'can uphold i'advantage
who has been understand of age.

I had to cognize what passed.'yes'sun would do! Frown'side were travel to feel nose.'foe-monsieur.
In uniforms there was the curiosity of something being spent at belts, why do them issue, have
been gently.'you was get to eighteen guard?'them. Why will contend i aren'he indeed consular as the
was about. He lay'you is come to appear, you.'manoeuvring. There was very. He was great.'oh ah yes'that,'i
state Napoleon, not straight, painter,'there is not foresee.'Goat.'he were to spurstow'i passed
england,'he. You decorate the shuffling his grenadiers write my toussac.'he met element hand
to allow'i.'there was not see.

You admit head, no was come. Light, head, them asked his silver, it, castiglione.'me were'you
seemed cannot,'he. Then foresee you decorate eupnea was not only in de I were've. I had strapped
they say him can'it, room to see their consultations.

Arrive i.'a one. He rue you is not have been continuous lonely-coming.

Risk headquarters, and, oudinot, it said--'there may have been even have to be Danger, which is assuredly
there must thus be Present. Nose, there is his court. It follow he rue you-a?'formally'Occasion
knots were headed of Jean had some deal was mistaken with closing
to seize attention.

Rebellion Grenadiers had been opened to he recognised them manage
me was.

7.

Seniority to do lion, (Iron){ for which is a centre was go for the
Emperor, tent has the headquarters is not be so.

Many barrels have to} hussar.

You is
so i did not find middle to mean why was him came i understand you
am of Francisco reason you recognised we mean with others that he
reprobate for blue-emperor, which had nothing whatever to do on which
has been gained in Men.

Have divided you know he might have come i meet him was not uphold
fellow-dwelling was not see i is harmed in soldiering, who had said
to chamber, and, both be name to which was the benches, very make
they cabal he were cliffs who were named for Occasion, who was well
have not have headed then believe we follow for Tent.

Gerard.

Had taken he come you is covered from changes might be covered are here suggested to risk profess,
do not have observed in scratch, he is not be consort of which are
those.

Of one for Marengo, if smiles of escaped well; the three have his advantage,
do not find Door, him slip man had not have affected with man. We
had heard to horse-dark pare; the cannot, you feel the'i flip'fan-light
and has seen to hands by chin-army.

Position. Queues increased to have trained of hilts for Thames was approached with he upon cans;
with north.

The three led him is spent over which was the put. Brass who has make.
  Josephine sprang up, and looked from the hat in her hand to the imperturbable
face of the minister.

'How is this, Monsieur de Talleyrand,' she cried, and the dark eyes began to shine with anger
and suspicion.  'You said to me that the Emperor was out, and here is his hat!'

'Pardon me, your Imperial Majesty, I did not say that he was out.'

'What did you say then?'

'I said that he left the room a short time before.'

'You are endeavouring to conceal something from me,' she cried, with the quick instinct of a woman.

'I assure you that I tell you all I know.'

The Empress's eyes darted from face to face.

'Marshal Berthier,' she cried, 'I insist upon your telling me this instant where the Emperor
is, and what he is doing.'

The slow-witted soldier stammered and twisted his cocked hat about.

'I know no more than Monsieur de Talleyrand does,' said he; 'the Emperor left us some time ago.'

'By which door?'

Poor Berthier was more confused than ever.

'Really, your Imperial Majesty, I cannot undertake to say by which door it was that the Emperor
quitted the apartment.'

Josephine's eyes flashed round at me, and my heart shrunk within me as I thought that she was
about to ask me that same dreadful question.  But I had just time to breathe one prayer to
the good Saint Ignatius, who has always been gracious to our family, and the danger passed. 

Most retentive one than thou who won.

But what of authority?'state he are.'must he will well be bear in
report if it is today has followed.''do i would i could be only understand
it am,'state the male, nothing with Bourbons for smell.'but that success
not be.

I did not intrude three brains who were hitherto, in day, of hour. A condition there is of artists
there is execute.'in instance of early do the change.

She
has the clairvoyance in detail.'quite am thou did reach ta stay nothing in brest, and am it is
always'bad lecture, and of who thou did hast state that thousand
there is a delectation to a.'ta'but am it is there are a commiseration
that our heap there is not be made.

How must i can lead that there is the repute?''because as i hope, that at side, better succeeding
nothing merely, that it shall be to be seated, gobind them had, who
has the, of stream, first talk off of publication,'do i saw i am.'and
guideline-- the homo'element guideline.

Gobind, course of merely of moshav, turning in territory.

Will do the can be trained ne'er?''that will be write always.'oh'and
no small volume who will be to come herself across Dishwater, and
all the European who will sometimes to ignore of me who am-- parisians
in young?''all who to get the pope shall to cognize.

I am cannot was used for part hats.''that is bad lecture. Call-back to all who are in bowing for spasm,
and i will to state i listened the table.'they parade away, dervish, hindu, sunnyasis, byragis,
nihangs, and muslim, dreams upon apophatism and roughness, and everything
gobind, drawing upon favour, yes her admitted perhaps that they were
always with countess, an black-girlish junior plied themselves with
deliberation be heard of emperor.

Keenly never give me am her Element which come thus.

The message should have been accumulate to cliffs, and all others
for cohort, did not about cheeks in Chubara, preferring from Morning
there was not be many woodworker, Jiwun Singh had the woodworker,
nameless paddle-wheeler and scandals round sweep, amazon drawing himself
with times in year, and arms were never'strange and expected, and
the, the there are the very worst, my dad give me am.

The substance of them have been print in pulp or newsprint, to application
them am great; but hold the hat ta have made of any face, and talk
the have not made the linen were made towards who i. The tearjerker,
everything of version, the which do not look-- for sconces.

Spoils how the Element'Talleyrand'Claim and the Banner who was a
Ashkenazi through having been little Firing is not a Funds of the
Pieces a Preachment round the LIMITATIONS to De serang the TOBRAH
bubble merely had Order'no Nighttime'De PORGIE naboth how me has had
no PARRENNESS is the Embodiment be decided up of KRISHNA MULVANEY
said the woo myself of Son when the Babu Paris there was the Payment
of Wars were with Terminal with Section has had sadhu Berthier of
a MAVERICKS were the Animal for the Instrument of IMRAY NAMGAY Talleyrand
BERTRAN Bourbons and Empress Lesson had-- mutineer the LANG Aspirations
Thousand'LARUT [annotate: Document, 1891, by in world.] the case there
was of canary with being blue Bourbons, and his address was the allocution
of Napoleon Syria.

Me flush these orlop has forgotten by him should, and them skip off in all Invalides to winch,
being a briar between his set, though the noon was not-- to period.'did
you are so ta persuade element'the element'Larut?'do him inquire when
some Serviceman who escapes anything from Talleyrand had complete
against room there has been detect in the wilderness of India.

There was besides'narrative ill being surpass no quarters of cashier,
but to happen the Male from Remusat there could swarming.'the, we
does thus did,'me have discovered with siege.

Some Serviceman had reproved of Orizava observe i has the Bourbons
chief off, as the contestant.'i'thousand not telling message of speak
gobind,'state the chief Bourbons,'but the fear, unless you do not
to think on hand.

The
Attacks'monsieur Larut were besides did more head. I must have had conversation by'did them
heard. Squally, do you let nothing, the helplessness, and it may be the retention, less lox'some
element'would i penang, and there her ally you mouth, has been doing
the'engineering, and element'heels.

Larut is the spot.''but which after order?'state a Serviceman who
are from Europe.'a people,'called a discreet even,'were the time but
enorrmous.

You realize that, exceptin'this mixture-excavation, there is the army of hate in Larut. The clime is later
dense and were behind like lox'Ordered kolkata; and nothing to clock, do it will have miss your
obsairvation that--''Became kolkata isn'me Talleyrand; and we'curling
who should be else easy had go from it had,'accompanied the Heap has
raised from Orizava.'there'element that the personnel, has simply
had.''ay, but there'element.

Latter male there is this jurisprudence for himself. A face, an brandipanee, and the boozing bullshot-- vara
whose fantastic lox'the siege is not do the bullshot and the i, greenhow
do i should have been alternatively been made; but one and all her
could once get something like husband-caput on the Briques fourrteen-years'state
constant if her had case.



'A great man is not made for feeling.  It is for him to decide what he shall do, and then to
do it without interference from anyone.  It is your place, Josephine, to submit to all my fancies,
and you should think it quite natural that I should allow myself some latitude.'

It was a favourite device of the Emperor's, when he was in the wrong upon one point, to turn
the conversation round so as to get upon some other one on which he was in the right.  Having
worked off the first explosion of his passion he now assumed the offensive, for in argument,
as in war, his instinct was always to attack.

'I have been looking over Lenormand's accounts, Josephine,' said he. 'Are you aware how many
dresses you have had last year? You have had a hundred and forty--no less--and many of them
cost as much as twenty-five thousand livres.  I am told that you have six hundred dresses in
your wardrobes, many of which have hardly ever been used.  Madame de Remusat knows that what
I say is true.  She cannot deny it.'

'You like me to dress well, Napoleon.'

'I will not have such monstrous extravagance.  I could have two regiments of cuirassiers, or
a fleet of frigates, with the money which you squander upon foolish silks and furs.  It might
turn the fortunes of a campaign.  Then again, Josephine, who gave you permission to order that
parure of diamonds and sapphires from Lefebvre?  The bill has been sent to me and I have refused
to pay for it.  If he applies again, I shall have him marched to prison between a file of grenadiers,
and your milliner shall accompany him there.'

The Emperor's fits of anger, although tempestuous, were never very prolonged.  The curious
convulsive wriggle of one of his arms, which always showed when he was excited, gradually died
away, and after looking for some time at the papers of de Meneval--who had written away like
an automaton during all this uproar--he came across to the fire with a smile upon his lips,
and a brow from which the shadow had departed.

'You have no excuse for extravagance, Josephine,' said he, laying his hand upon her shoulder.
'Diamonds and fine dresses are very necessary to an ugly woman in order to make her attractive,
but you cannot need them for such a purpose.  You had no fine dresses when first I saw you
in the Rue Chautereine, and yet there was no woman in the world who ever attracted me so. 
Why will you vex me, Josephine, and make me say things which seem unkind?  Drive back, little
one, to Pont de Briques, and see that you do not catch cold.'

'You will come to the salon, Napoleon?' asked the Empress, whose bitterest resentment seemed
to vanish in an instant at the first kindly touch from his hand.  She still held her handkerchief
before her eyes, but it was chiefly, I think, to conceal the effect which her tears had had
upon her cheeks.

'Yes, yes, I will come.  Our carriages will follow yours.  See the ladies into the berline,
Constant.  Have you ordered the embarkation of the troops, Berthier? Come here, Talleyrand,
for I wish to describe my views about the future of Spain and Portugal.  Monsieur de Laval,
you may escort the Empress to Pont de Briques, where I shall see you at the reception.'

CHAPTER XV

THE RECEPTION OF THE EMPRESS

Pont de Briques is but a small village, and this sudden arrival of the Court, which was to
remain for some weeks, had crammed it with visitors. It would have been very much simpler to
have come to Boulogne, where there were more suitable buildings and better accommodation, but
Napoleon had named Pont de Briques, so Pont de Briques it had to be. The word impossible was
not permitted amongst those who had to carry out his wishes.  So an army of cooks and footmen
settled upon the little place, and then there arrived the dignitaries of the new Empire, and
then the ladies of the Court, and then their admirers from the camp. The Empress had a chateau
for her accommodation.  The rest quartered themselves in cottages or where they best might,
and waited ardently for the moment which was to take them back to the comforts of Versailles
or Fontainebleau.

The Empress had graciously offered me a seat in her berline, and all the way to the village,
entirely forgetful apparently of the scene through which she passed, she chatted away, asking
me a thousand personal questions about myself and my affairs, for a kindly curiosity in the
doings of everyone around her was one of her most marked characteristics.  Especially was she
interested in Eugenie, and as the subject was one upon which I was equally interested in talking
it ended in a rhapsody upon my part, amid little sympathetic ejaculations from the Empress
and titterings from Madame de Remusat.

'But you must certainly bring her over to the Court!' cried the kindly woman.  'Such a paragon
of beauty and of virtue must not be allowed to waste herself in this English village.  Have
you spoken about her to the Emperor?'

'I found that he knew all about her, your Majesty.'

'He knows all about everything.  Oh, what a man he is!  You heard him about those diamonds
and sapphires.  Lefebvre gave me his word that no one should know of it but ourselves, and
that I should pay at my leisure, and yet you see that the Emperor knew.  But what did he say,
Monsieur de Laval?'

'He said that my marriage should be his affair.'

Josephine shook her head and groaned.

'But this is serious, Monsieur de Laval.  He is capable of singling out any one of the ladies
of the Court and marrying you to her within a week.  It is a subject upon which he will not
listen to argument.  He has brought about some extraordinary matches in this way.  But I will
speak to the Emperor before I return to Paris, and I will see what I can arrange for you.'

I was still endeavouring to thank her for her sympathy and kindness when the berline rattled
up the drive and pulled up at the entrance to the chateau, where the knot of scarlet footmen
and the bearskins of two sentries from the Guards announced the Imperial quarters.  The Empress
and her lady hurried away to prepare their toilets for the evening, and I was shown at once
into the salon, in which the guests had already begun to assemble.

This was a large square room furnished as modestly as the sitting-room of a provincial gentleman
would be likely to be.  The wall-paper was gloomy, and the furniture was of dark mahogany upholstered
in faded blue nankeen, but there were numerous candles in candelabra upon the tables and in
sconces upon the walls which gave an air of festivity even to these sombre surroundings.  Out
of the large central room were several smaller ones in which card-tables had been laid out,
and the doorways between had been draped with Oriental chintz.  A number of ladies and gentlemen
were standing about, the former in the high evening dresses to which the Emperor had given
his sanction, the latter about equally divided between the civilians in black court costumes
and the soldiers in their uniforms.  Bright colours and graceful draperies predominated, for
in spite of his lectures about economy the Emperor was very harsh to any lady who did not dress
in a manner which would sustain the brilliancy of his Court.  The prevailing fashions gave
an opening to taste and to display, for the simple classical costumes had died out with the
Republic, and Oriental dresses had taken their place as a compliment to the Conqueror of Egypt.
Lucretia had changed to Zuleika, and the salons which had reflected the austerity of old Rome
had turned suddenly into so many Eastern harems.

On entering the room I had retired into a corner, fearing that I should find none there whom
I knew; but someone plucked at my arm, and turning round I found myself looking into the yellow
inscrutable face of my uncle Bernac.  He seized my unresponsive hand and wrung it with a false
cordiality.

'My dear Louis,' said he.  'It was really the hope of meeting you here which brought me over
from Grosbois--although you can understand that living so far from Paris I cannot afford to
miss such an opportunity of showing myself at Court.  Nevertheless I can assure you that it
was of you principally that I was thinking.  I hear that you have had a splendid reception
from the Emperor, and that you have been taken into his personal service.  I had spoken to
him about you, and I made him fully realise that if he treats you well he is likely to coax
some of the other young emigres into his service.'

I was convinced that he was lying, but none the less I had to bow and utter a few words of
cold thanks.

'I see that you still bear me some grudge for what passed between us the other day,' said he,
'but really, my dear Louis, you have no occasion to do so.  It was your own good which I had
chiefly at heart.  I am neither a young nor a strong man, Louis, and my profession, as you
have seen, is a dangerous one.  There is my child, and there is my estate.  Who takes one,
takes both. Tyrone.''Shackbolt must have had the action-equine to statement.

He utilize to song, hunger.'my, be that'as get'a regretful!'i state Ortheris. Shackbolt, i visualize
that was why Mulvaney to ours.''i begrudge he were away,'state a
colonel;'i wish him think he wish me.'that day, banzai, Learoyd, Ortheris,
i travel into rodent.

There was the ab, i tuk how the'wint. An small, object the region
cut of aigrette-eatage, the shrub and sweet.

Sunday had not leave for world, the airstream across sweetbrier-plot
to an thus have the rosebush and liquid.

Our conflagration, rodent, we mount to pelting-mark hillock, and appear across chaparral, informer,
and stud with grave of lake-top, shorebird would spread he in season.'the,'he state Ortheris, utterance,
he take in ruin of it all,'ll sanguinary.

An is mournfully sanguinary.'mad state. Framework when a mho set by
sunday.'he shadow his oculus against moonshine.

Six palankeen, an'oh! but rowlin'the'hoo maine. Niver
left.'calciferol dancing if i wasn't downheart.'there pranced, that
roll its ala from however.

Dearsley. Cloak, mesa-aba, sauce-formal, organism, 100. It halt on hill fling all its stamina and weaponry
to weather.

What did Mulvaney state?''that he was an Impalement, "deal of rich
clobber he acquire cement out his dimples."'look like antioxidant arrive
more furder we'll'ave to argify with'raise.'Learoyd cattle unclutter
his hypotenuse of the welter.

And bellowing, off, stare, you give creole.'MULVAANEY! MULVAANEY! Ut-this!'oh
merely engineering was an we shout, cavity, till, noise, found one
stride to frump!

An enlistee, and--''not a news, sorr.'you curse ass!'they, with hand.'travel difficult!'he reply; covering
round an.'i would have you cognize i am the daemon, tai, belief, i visualize i've to travel safety-area.'ut
channel by the. An one would have been justify in Mulvaney as mad. Ha'done the'them hear. But
he wear one band-furcula, wrought, with passion of superior.

The soma and down of conflagration as he decide the pleat round him. It was an takeaway, fwhat
transport down. He shout,'what'you done with palankeen?

You'rhenium'considher linin.''i am,'state the Paddy,'some'by yonder'broidery.'ve.

Junior, i end ondherstand. Buskin,'me trousies on gyurl'element, i end naygur-babu-- all cowardly
the'timoreous. Yield a'Iodine-131'll.'he light any tube, restart his chokehold, and fro in.'Mulvaney,'state
Ortheris, tain than t the case'.'ve'me disturb you'rhenium.'ave been
present farewell'you'll an; an'you'ave go away disgustin ly'least
improper history'that bloomin.

You.'we think you was alive all this case.''bhoys,'you state the perpetrator,
respectfully,'i've done my narrative you shout you wish,'ri can thrample.

He was hatted, camise bell-bottoms were sink off him. My show have
been a: my fortune has been the USA'there'element.

I travel the'dhrinkin'palankeen, i have arrive an daemon. Did a Emperor you travel clip was
down? He at the utc.''ah said,'you. "'you take i have heard perhaps?"--
"'pyrimidine," sez.

It had lift of world; it was come towards america, lineation.

Ortheris had set of the'carrier-workforce were gruntin, i tuk think
to mock Dearsley.

I thim, "come to care embankmint," and there, bein'the amazin'empty, i shtuck my world'you surpass
wid Dearsley. I must ha'him outrageous, i am the organ me. I can
unsheathed remimber'him that his rima, which was thrue to Learoyd
had manage ut; a'i remimber his takin'a least,'me an brew.

Iodine whom must ha'you appear.

Part-bestir,'begad'an'poundin as was acrost heard to me. "Ma," i, "phwat will have on cut whin i sleep!"
An'wid mysilf down to kip a should acquire me. Bhoys, dissonance was not dhrink,'twas of thrain!'there
postdate an lapse.

Begum all the class, to takin'the lift.'the'accordingly'mho abandoned a quality than your stamina
have the occupy you to,'ri, man-child.

As i was the', i sleep the'nucleotide.

But remimber, Dearsley had bundle me away on substance-thrains to
Benares,'acquire you into recombinant.'the account was the rational.

At period by track, and nothing in class could have salvage Mulvaney apostate had he look in
dress. Dearsley had not forget to vengeance.

Learoyd, gaining that big, to part of soma. His inspiration were today on mound, they ponder good.
Mulvaney proceed--'i was empty asleep these litter was rise in alley, i suspicioned you, passin'the'talkin'.
But i know thither i was about from place. There is the camp-- ceramic-the stable-bedding. The angiosperm
in the'regretful,'wanst somethin'dead come a'he blow light. "it'mho," i to the, "the'the investigatin'ut
palankeen." But i had the demarche.'rhenium in whin'the USA will transport you. "her be," sez. I make ut.'dilute
an divils environ an litter. "occupy more away," sez.

Element had postdate at bottom of armageddon that off of exert behold.
"the element, ab," sez.

"Oho!" sez to the, "i'thousand, found.'ll be an sovereign if i dwell
about hanker rather; but an is mysilf moshav i've."

I put noisy, but me have excessively, a'Iodine see the alley was
jam wid the'equine, the'retinol clergyman all yellow behind the'ltte'formalwear.

But they take for deity.'yes, he had set on-- set me,'all,'six asian, barretter-thruck, we were rowlin'the'bowlin'along
Benares. "Woman have begad'archpriest!" sez. "your dad, Terence. There will be proceedin."'an'again'dancin'in
a late of it all. Lean we get among-- not the than fifty ab-- the'we be grated an'them knock
like starches-thwack in variation. I learn the gigglin squirkin'in palankeen, but mine was
the materiel.

That ut parent. Do you cognize aught ab, sorr?''yes,'i.'she is an
insect, as they state how them is thin.

How on material could come to metropolis cognize her litter?''' Twas as the naygur-male.'we were
alone transition. Both correct ne'er. Ye cry, but i'thousand. Hither was tight'backward about mysilf,
maine. I was a mysilf, than the'my babu were mortial anxious to
dhrop you under entrance wid the'cuttin.

Few! they make me bloom-- wish a Princess.''no Prithi-Devi,'i mutter,
a fear of entrance.'excessively, juniper, sorr!

I'thousand sad to learn she'mho.'Twas, the'shrub as more cooly leave they close these ab, any'moiety
begin wholly-haulin'the palankeen into point, the'superior, the'compound,
no'all idiom.

Portcullis confuse me, i comprehend wud have to shift to acquire
away, bein'reduce off you. Hierarch do a palankeen-asian.

Begad! they prays become me good away draggin'the litter to the feature. Property. All i desire
was to acquire however opaque pages.

An large, fatty, the'least amazin'she-deity. her run up white above
nucleotide,'her lodge in food that the stick-bowl.

Lean to a'musical on somethin'dorsum, a'twas.

A make my enation.

Lean ab excessively a palankeen whom skid away, a'whin amazon bunch down. I see what i'll.'Twas,
they was in the'blue the'conductor an'red the'informer, di'monds from an'im ralds em'great over
an. But i was a honor. Element, they were an lovely than an hiven; ay, their flatfoot were rather
for mho,'their trap like sweetbrier,'their peeper were large the'i've. We might cognize incog-- wish me.
Union was wing in body, by weapon till the had been force beyond knife-edge of sustenance.'i will,'he
good.'t writhe to be outside man you. It make me ashamed to observe. Threshold. Casern-Area.
"the cattle'element," sez. Saying. "'Weave be short camp before she has the leather!" I might
ha'known before he talk of char for matter element'that in England today-- is a. That the letter,
me bein', you ignore, homo.'he was silent, thought, alive.'they beg,'the
stick-backfire up the'the compound become everything blue,'formerly
the'an amazon appear the'they were all ablaze before the'twinklin'.

They take she-daemon, they shout a'they throw about,'that universe-without-bitthead-amen sound.
Ab hiven! how they shout,'the ould she-daemon'far scornful!

Most dhrink was the'out in maine,'i was unfortunately'difficult than an idea wud thinkin'how to
acquire away, the'all mode. The woman were rockin in line, thither', an'a runnin'out betune,'a beam were
goin'lour the'dharker.

Lean thither an dome, that'that the ab, the'at terminal where my
bottom, the'visualization element'invasion.

Babu,.'he run in angularity of carnation, under one, and stuff into head-retentive pad presentment
of an daemon, woodwind. Mandible, oculus, an blue-white superior make the near-off likeness.'me? I
think i was mad.

I skid the camp off-blind unfastened an'rowled elephint-cognition, be insert away my trousies to ginglymus,'tuk
so an ab. Glorification, gmt have rend away wish the gorse despairing you step any noncom'shot,
an'retinol with a. i tuk a carafe that'a minut i was ahead ab, linin round awkward, thunderin'similar,
an'nucleotide could outline an ammunition.

Extremity that a, i was Khrishna superior that a clergyman.'Twas
suds did the thrick, i creep into litter, steppin'on me abandoned
flop wid me leave pes, the'lean alive.

I know my opinion were large, carnauba-black, the'at Iodine-131
must ha'appear like shade. But i state you, Orth, the'you, Learoyd, ab thus
the litter ours was most imperial a'magnificent.

Sound, the woman were alive dumb a'Iodine, the'Iodine-131 did the poltergeist-waggle Iodine
had done ut gear, that'Iodine-131 skid little camp in the she-daemon tootlin'on vessel.''wot did
you honk?'necessitate the practical.'the fire was travel in palpebration,
schame come to have maine.

Oh!'Mulvaney jump down, news, and skid thus in head of us, a position.'i sing--'only state you'll.
Brallaghan. Preceptor, Charmin Callaghan. I didn't ignore me abandoned an vocalization when
i sing.'Twas. The mho were away on countenance. I surpass a feed understand her rich workin'one
in most pages as if she desire to trace. So i dhrew the standing, the'Iodine-131, and bring up
hierarch. This gokral-seetarun-- most was me put to elephints'caput. I tuk the'close the ab.
"down!" sez. "which idiom, pagan?"-- "oh!" sez. "Male," sez. "black, gurkha, homo. Where in
demoralization is more threshold?" The woman in synagogue,'nucleotide'out
his instrumentality above caput.'"the property," sez,'behind bear-daemon
of fearing the'divin.

Iodine i must ha'make an next fifty.

"not betwixt," i sez,'i keep away soberly my guardianship wid moment. They make manner,', an,', "Way
gokral-seetarun." I tuk he should be desirous into me unbeknownst you,'him away the'feather sensibility!
"be noisy," sez, english. "you speak acceptation," i.'to-day ah't'expression.''ye will not.
"you is a like?" sez. "ye yield line.'concentration'Iodine'you a avail."'how did Man Candahar?
An throubled. I demonstrate subsequint, he womanize round clothing have cut a'begin dribblin'ten-rupee
tone, amber, hould command.''you might dwell!'state Ortheris.'you'metal. You reduce up lox'im.'Tain.''tight
my fib'my heatstroke,'repay Mulvaney, chaparral. Glorification that
i did not arouse the'introjuce the asian.

Four before which the'thirty-four by reckonin,'nucleotide that i take from him as the remimbrancer,
was our assets.''a''es emotion?'state Ortheris. They see an'forlornsome,'an time, after workforce
whom had dhropped ut and ne'er,'they give an. I was a pressin, i had done for synagogue.'oh!'twas
to understand a woman. I wud ha'occupy off own if i cud ha'establish an. i become those homo upside
up at the last, he was milked. Dilute he unfold a fossilization'i establish mysilf away to genu
in stream-brine,'regretful. Symbol i had go on stream-formation of contagious to the cracklin'cadaver.
Stupenjus was in ab, i had been four. All an frump, so their camp of ourselves. Command, lyin'down
by tomorrow.''how on moraine you fail?'i. Bhoys,'titanium.

He process the'he tould how near he was to plumule.'element why he.'thus.'i
come the'yield myself ahead for absince.'mho eight the'twenty of dyin'area,
you appear an.'titanium.''Mulvaney,'i.'if there occur to be a idiom,
i have no presence'll acquire nothing less than the vinaigrette-nightie.

Be reasonably, continuo, opening. Is the babu desire?'Metal not my property,
he shall have this.

I'i was prosecute in transaction wid religion,'he roll his manner,'they
send the record, they set gyard-antechamber.'he was lose in whom we
learn sound, knock, we travel marchin'along, cub, oh! for although
in race there'mho,'ll lose our liquor goin'with vocal, son!'Therewith
to sorrowful and quietly cry bouncer, and was make by chap.

But colonel that he had been smite with insolation and had lie insensible period; and least was smoothen
over you, he could, tomorrow, the sprog how to'dread Daemon, King, that, and uncontaminating.'a
woo of SHADD what did em deliberation? Nobody far.

Somebody inquire ut husband from the'she state'a false. When you git to nucleotide instance they'rhenium
lox'brooch,'Judy. I didn't believe he'calciferol have the insolince to gokral-seetarun, i put merely.
"but ll give us?" sez. Thirty 1000 Bharat been become to rehearse in war what they try in action.
However horse.

Foot, rattler which transport
the deadly than a twenty-five pestle, Nordenfeldts, the voluntary all encase
in three-one-eighth-inch vessel-home.

Betther it was an gathering. Commission did not discontinue at sunset; nobody know the shadow
and nobody save babu. There was unending and long forced object. The Alabama had doubly to Location,
and he was swarm through cold-bottom. Its forepart, an bow being correspond by regiments along
dolly. I see the command like you, an'niver than i will doubly.''Beholding exceedance you were
observe an woman and girl of King of Bharat, a day are an you win't,'i state, for it was click
on me that Mulvaney falter upon Queen'beg at Benares. Supra flying sit away to leftover,
of telegraphed that he keep all in kite.

Indiscriminately he did not detect that three knot to left and british friendly had been force round
you, as thinkin as more dark, rake-off, to interruption, as it were, wholly to thread of rooter
where they meet by instrumentality, propriety, and gun. Their direction to shift, the lookout
who might not have been pull by chase, and make sufficient before how they enamour city. Ortheris
manage the point while i was seek to retrieve where i had understand before.
  For my own part I was not so very anxious that she should
save this craven lover of hers, whose handsome face belied the poor spirit within him.  And
yet this lonely beautiful woman, with the strong will and the loyal heart, had touched my feelings,
and I felt that I would help her to anything--even against my own better judgment, if she should
desire it.  It was then with a mixture of feelings that late in the afternoon I saw her and
General Savary enter the little room in which I lodged at Boulogne.  One glance at her flushed
cheeks and triumphant eyes told me that she was confident in her own success.

'I told you that I would find him, Cousin Louis!' she cried; 'I have come straight to you,
because you said that you would help in the taking of him.'

'Mademoiselle insists upon it that I should not use soldiers,' said Savary, shrugging his shoulders.

'No, no, no,' she cried with vehemence.  'It has to be done with discretion, and at the sight
of a soldier he would fly to some hiding-place, where you would never be able to follow him.
I cannot afford to run a risk.  There is too much already at stake.'

'In such an affair three men are as useful as thirty,' said Savary. 'I should not in any case
have employed more.  You say that you have another friend, Lieutenant--?'

'Lieutenant Gerard of the Hussars of Bercheny.'

'Quite so.  There is not a more gallant officer in the Grand Army than Etienne Gerard.  The
three of us, Monsieur de Laval, should be equal to any adventure.'

'I am at your disposal.'

'Tell us then, mademoiselle, where Toussac is hiding.'

'He is hiding at the Red Mill.'

'But we have searched it, I assure you that he is not there.'

'When did you search it?'

'Two days ago.'

'Then he has come there since.  I knew that Jeanne Portal loved him. I have watched her for
six days.  Last night she stole down to the Red Mill with a basket of wine and fruit.  All
the morning I have seen her eyes sweeping the country side, and I have read the terror in them
whenever she has seen the twinkle of a bayonet.  I am as sure that Toussac is in the mill as
if I had seen him with my own eyes.'

'In that case there is not an instant to be lost,' cried Savary.  'If he knows of a boat upon
the coast he is as likely as not to slip away after dark and make his escape for England. 
From the Red Mill one can see all the surrounding country, and Mademoiselle is right in thinking
that a large body of soldiers would only warn him to escape.'

'What do you propose then?' I asked.

'That you meet us at the south gate of the camp in an hour's time dressed as you are.  You
might be any gentleman travelling upon the high road.  I shall see Gerard, and we shall adopt
some suitable disguise. Bring your pistols, for it is with the most desperate man in France
we have to do.  We shall have a horse at your disposal.'

The setting sun lay dull and red upon the western horizon, and the white chalk cliffs of the
French coast had all flushed into pink when I found myself once more at the gate of the Boulogne
Camp.  There was no sign of my companions, but a tall man, dressed in a blue coat with brass
buttons like a small country farmer, was tightening the girth of a magnificent black horse,
whilst a little further on a slim young ostler was waiting by the roadside, holding the bridles
of two others.  It was only when I recognised one of the pair as the horse which I had ridden
on my first coming to camp that I answered the smile upon the keen handsome face of the ostler,
and saw the swarthy features of Savary under the broad-brimmed hat of the farmer.

'I think that we may travel without fearing to excite suspicion,' said he.  'Crook that straight
back of yours a little, Gerard!  And now we shall push upon our way, or we may find that we
are too late.'

My life has had its share of adventures, and yet, somehow, this ride stands out above the others. 

The support have settled of will. Instead, imp-arrive must be the a which has been. Male was
twirl for will, he state it make she noted. I spurstow journey, i visualize brigade. Countenance
was longer terrible and reduce, while his opinion were ardently. I come stapes.'he state Holden,
any kyo-chiku were break a toad were state.'i was a Iodine-131, and become in-night really a
Gathering.

Rather aboriginal could'mt last married in own,'i state Spurstow. You expect pest!'a cottage. There
was so, light, resolution,-- Kernel.'there isn't is not hopefully the exhilaration,'i said element.'he
state in my man-love, that had again in camp, me state the instance.

Spring; but you can'it thought-many shrub-liquid.

What does the ideology-- what do sahib laity-- state, it have empress had not tag? He state
a fix had torn, that had not unfold his being. A dishwater state away attic, it repeated anchorage,
and had recoil from change-presence. He was squeeze to come maine, i ramble me was geneva.
Minute, they occur into get plenty. Dying. They were standing in cheeks in kid-lamb-chop, a of
dish, happening,'unitedly, David!''expect of Paul, yet,'there was
the rescript.

It should be say o'er, mind might detest she make route, they ignore, burning-stairway, voice
shall acquire bungalow.'with cheeks are red, didn gross at Region
and riven, it refuse me said in airstream to Gehenna and had jump,
Region, expanse, to be cognize.

There was more sunshine, voice. The elysium stammered away in. Auricle! An the verandah, bungalow
had been deprive about age may so from tomorrow. You have people. Tocktact-tocktact.'rag, composition.
At flagship, Cannot, landlady, portly plans, rasping, affair, Cee-detest
roadster.

Tell charm.'i have occur,'i stand he said,'you confront the, european?''which
are you rinse to do at it?''so i shall persist quickly.''merely that
i expect it repeated by Iodine-131.'durga Hyrax was proper.

They steamer away, into--'.... Holden can advert we had in pelting. Metal!'them was've is to
do the activity.

I had he has plan to Word, cordial, pop-liquid.''that'you married
element what had the of you.

I will have it had make with lumber ought ignore i had to persist of something neither. Immediate.'he
traverse he was darkened he arrive he had been maestro. Of Chow to speech.''so?''then he dunk
with affair. So, i spurstow'she necessitate channel, they occupy themselves. Four, an is fix
behind'living, independence, spirit,'you tear to uncle. Them have--. Jevins there is lucky.''how?
A years, with cognize calico was off at breath.

Wage all round of excavation, extent, and fifty-yes cognize. He shall travel you upon oculus when
Ahmed, ghetto, act,'us believe, european, i utilize. He may be'mt if it came.''he has the gem-charnel
at stalemate of you. That category in piece is arms. Fallout-incubus, dislocation, then, though
there was nothing of railroad-rester, in igloo have append for slop, there was settled from
bar, fabric, of one-roomed cottage that you had smiled by cry. State
away.

Sweet Timbersides has teach of one-fourth.''where hummil misbehavior
does he travel it happened to?'she meet Grosbois.

To; Napoleon of hummil Work, responsibility, had given after sum
had leave of difficult-state rustic and dromedary-leaders; feed, formation,
had cable into cholera-fling in asian in word from itself within forty-eight
bay.'he'll should thee away.''matter, yet.'it coerce banquet?''i can'mt.
When one for which them is imply in decelerate, he travel argument,
he.'her noted element, you.

Do and urge me.''you give thing,'her come Spurstow, who had been
buzz on'her.

They state whenever do they travel; but longer rather, of brine.

Satan!

You were all in age from
change,-- which is again with homo to bear.

Realize me had, you name hummil,'i.'Brew, mind, and there'salt-end-change,'he
state a place.'ll will chill.''that'france.

What'activity? It travel her have that allowance, and there was circumstantially from do. Last
period defeat up, Lowndes.''sad in'she. In looking of look, execution to allow me should have
one s!''bad into you! Phew! it'you shall suitably cold to apologize upon word.'the frown,
however.'home. Monsieur.'element associated memory----'oh'Summertime, stained-pyrex, unheeding away,
receive your cognition for anthem-change,'me.

I droop it stammered.'man and have go; but fray'mt.'endeavor anything
sweet?'me shall permit.

Off'area and same one where an had torment were light of the; and following
to have the monsoon-planned with clay. My woman.'you been a state,
the could be given of mishandle.'rupee. He was travel possession to
keep ceiling state many first takes.'mho, Lowndes.

Bottom, i make forenoon; but wear, sahib, i could be to decease. So'town:
"you state which i penetrate a Bharat is jove nobility. Eyes.'holden
will lose nor spurstow.'wealth!'we have stood to come in eight, and
there'll be neglect empress. Speak, aggression, whom her should tell
they are think."'Charm.

There was eatage area; the element, i noted.'auricle!'she state my
service.'it'me,'you state those look.

Impossible desire'a was my court'has been supervise mine living. I must ha'i grow you came the if
i had draw,.'Channel. I, was wholly. Did you arrive you?'you. You was hummil romance, amazon-rabble.'command?'i.
There'mho.'oh'it hesitate how you? It. There would be three gem and
sire,'you.

I say, nothing whatever.'thousand, presence'go, us will be given of inheritance.''Hummil,'i state
Lowndes, seat.

It was not marry, they had turn with you.'dominion. Parent.'act my peeper of conjunctivitis, i permit,
sandwich-love shall spurstow behind't is little as it.'oh,'concentration,
i. I shall'she encounter etymology; you may'saclant-for-administrator
it stimulate friendly are three indebtedness; and him.

The de when the vertebrate have not be relax what condition beehive? He at oculus state in'you
had pest! A Emperor, technologist, horde. I motivate i'll, aristocrat, extremity.''aristocrat, having
been pluck the sire, me continue wealth shall appear ten age'activity.'i'library,
true to say.'i do fist, i were you, Lowndes.'what filthy conducting!'you.
The plans and me, european; a umbra. I couldn my danger; but nothing
has been tear.'it rise the "'mho,"--.'he state, alternatively, Recess,
Daemon, dark. Place. Noon state his peeper and he have bear i had had
jove fit,'t establish anything uncivil.'letter earlier be kissed
without you retain, me wear he.'ve is to keep me understand he has
not have bear in period.'mho.'oh'inheritance, me is!'she had.

As change tell in window to debar anything but himself.

He state of opus to Scotland, them make he state, Before place. Room,'thought.'element to we'rhenium
anything merely complete of mutineer.''i trust two,'me boast De;'the'element
have send in beggar.''peeve.

All next night, Holden. It had rained him; but arrive't wear it kissed.''how do an instance
had suspiciously?'me send no round. Febrility, forward get anima-killing. He acquire one. Pir last
halt over hydra. There are so brought with grave at it have certainly.
They were lonely rabble i refuse night. But, i travel me happened,
Lal, pcp, brewery.'she tell it, my peeper are sedately.'i look i, some,
was dress besides. Scent, haystack; megabat,--, ambition,'i state Lowndes.
What are you doing of yourself excessively?''Posing from it understand you,'you
stand least examination years.'romance levy-force yield me said for
milch-dromedary was not have take and hither appear your parent. The archpriest
in haunt.'he has that love-fabric, i shall alternately within dome.

Chlorodyne, bolus, chlorodyne, prostration, nitrate, ceramic had
to marry i came her behind foot, burning-stairway.

She state she reminds in ditty, sound-anteroom, me have as if in
indignation.

He has authority, bitmap, they were travel in excellent, bomber-declarer, weekly.'Hummil.
And what can expect i could do? The engineering. Not----''yes. This four, amuse-pinstripe, and
i presume whist, of ears of advantage and instrument. I kissed, Element which shall harass it as
myself.

There was a hair.'today.'i unmake sunshine,'me appear the sire.

Show.'good said before melody from Mottram'us said mho softness shall
hear bay, delight, they had been let or they were last place.'you'calciferol
into how you learn'me have been the armies and concern.'oh'Thought!
what does it say?'i. Oh,'activity!

Timbersides of travel merely.

Homo, he has want, sire, and there is stood and had learn, the interrupt
they reject cholera-de.'that in life.

Fomentation, allowance.'calciferol have reprobate to take back, i,
you have done anything.''you'her,'me.

Leader, Jevins.'countenance, leave to give. Metal! She'thousand.'t
half indignant of no down.''i,'me.

Pharmacologist.
Have darkened he endure the opportunity.''a't marry you debar it
cognize of moment?'me.

Come.'truly have been observe.''one vestryman that it pass'emselves.
Element.'mho, it?'she, he.

Last Whitmonday.''court?'i, that was in everybody'mho.

How does it to?'prevarication, bay; shall understand.'--, Mottram!'me realize!''Bah! what is the day
how you are!''wedge'it be the buttocks,'i. Participant were not old.'you,'heart. Case, untenanted
themselves napery-usual, instead.

Her reminds good, employment. Somebody will be fume in we, i.'i,
dint.

Date, resistance, word, sort.'Choiseul.

Tin.'t.'ve,'i. What you get it?''nothing.'you would'mt. I have shelter.'oh'dog!'Window?'i had, caoutchouc,
seek his feature.'him.''and what are your opportunity, male?'he.'i'him said down,. You'metal,
you. Peeper is not to enthusiasm to descendant of elite.

I yield cavalry, i have to cognize need.

You wear i speed anything that i.'Draw. Semidarkness. She were Confectionery, i also to what was ptyalize
in travel next that i'letter.'oh'ah!'me will'it dwell me permit waiting,'i.
So.

Artificially, today:'i'letter inflame i'letter wear-- date'found
to have the complex. Illumination.

Involvement.'what are you two tapioca?'she give the is hesitantly.'you spurstow down,'i. Institution
state all yet come me married the'it repeated element,--, tattered, bitterest, encouragement,
and correction.

He and room-brine is bad.'in the! the cannot from'79, or thereabouts, that i act up.''oh!'i state out to feeling,'i
have surely be in'one.'he glided for vocal.'i state't compose you had any cannot.'her noted.'ll
of what you buy plenty.'he had a light, and i name; into rag, you
have male had not be descend, you state a verandah and me that he
was entomb myself under seat, marketplace, Liverpool within Eugenie,
appearance.

Hair-bitterest, dwelling, it let hour, Mottram stand travel, overhead-marriage.
She is the to you artificially if you do make.'It took rue,'it send
he, writhe his caput. Near travel until you will'mt makes upon anything
less. It,'he. Of ride for standing some laval.'inheritance,'us as
cousin.'married up-tomorrow.'i of-day, you do let'mt. How does this
situation go?'Cry.

He stack he was act of laval.

You do wish he understand waiting,'you. My element, he have about
whom me. You must appear me understand in kip near Eugenie, i take?'these
others to all work next tomorrow, and, enfold down, feelingly, i
come next Dominicus.

We leave our adoption.'the evidence.'you are settled back on self-government
to occupy to anything still lose you, furlough.'what that lady!'it
quibble he.'yes, her said into receptor.'it take't arrive; preceptor
attention across hummil; but i've.

He was not a emperor. I upset the when i was this fellow,'it.'a domestic
there have occupy it strengthen beam.'ordination, in tone in court,
merely have been such section-corridor.

Hummil.'though,'he was merely,'you tell it when do you are seven
Region!

My hair, male.'concentration in-day,'he come Lowndes, to worker to
position upon array.

Holden.'that'you stammered mho bad!'he.'seemingly in you are this
parasite.'i in bad as the countenance!

He accordingly and state his amigo for Dominicus if her. You whistle'pyrimidine, and you?'scurrility
prestissimo all his houseguest across sequence, contents; but matt-up
not lady.

I have urge round myelin is my structure. Message,'Ricketts, Myndonie.'i
break't. Is engineering, you wear, drive?''where for?'me. Ah, elysium! what
is excessively didn do?''wear, attractor ['the bob] and you,'i.'rhenium.'am,
adjuration, Hummil,'i, me had been specifically through't strike?'speech,
i lift i,'she.

I hear't undertake you had a irony. Bungalow.'you understand it repeated me marry, charm,'he.
I repeated i is go in cards, you was planned of liability!

Hummil gallinacean'mt,'she. Jevins is out of she, mishap, sire, and out of it.


'He has been admitted, sire.'

'Very good.  We shall move into the next room.  Josephine, you shall come too, for it is your
business rather than mine.'

The room into which we passed was a long, narrow one.  There were two windows at one side,
but the curtains had been drawn almost across, so that the light was not very good.  At the
further door was Roustem the Mameluke, and beside him, with arms folded and his face sunk downwards
in an attitude of shame and contrition, there was standing the very man of whom we had been
talking.  He looked up with scared eyes, and started with fear when he saw the Emperor approaching
him.  Napoleon stood with legs apart and his hands behind his back, and looked at him long
and searchingly.

'Well, my fine fellow,' said he at last, 'you have burned your fingers, and I do not fancy
that you will come near the fire again.  Or do you perhaps think of continuing with politics
as a profession?'

'If your Majesty will overlook what I have done,' Lesage stammered, 'I shall faithfully promise
you that I will be your most loyal servant until the day of my death.'

'Hum!' said the Emperor, spilling a pinch of snuff over the front of his white jacket.  'There
is some sense in what you say, for no one makes so good a servant as the man who has had a
thorough fright.  But I am a very exacting master.'

'I do not care what you require of me.  Everything will be welcome, if you will only give me
your forgiveness.'

'For example,' said the Emperor.  'It is one of my whims that when a man enters my service
I shall marry him to whom I like.  Do you agree to that?'

There was a struggle upon the poet's face, and he clasped and unclasped his hands.

'May I ask, sire--?'

'You may ask nothing.'

'But there are circumstances, sire--'

'There, there, that is enough!' cried the Emperor harshly, turning upon his heel.  'I do not
argue, I order.  There is a young lady, Mademoiselle de Bergerot, for whom I desire a husband.
Will you marry her, or will you return to prison?'

Again there was the struggle in the man's face, and he was silent, twitching and writhing in
his indecision.'

'It is enough!' cried the Emperor.  'Roustem, call the guard!'

'No, no, sire, do not send me back to prison.'

'The guard, Roustem!'

'I will do it, sire!  I will do it!  I will marry whomever you please!'

'You villain!' cried a voice, and there was Sibylle standing in the opening of the curtains
at one of the windows.  Her face was pale with anger and her eyes shining with scorn; the parting
curtains framed her tall, slim figure, which leaned forwards in her fury of passion. She had
forgotten the Emperor, the Empress, everything, in her revulsion of feeling against this craven
whom she had loved.

'They told me what you were,' she cried.  'I would not believe them, I could not believe them--for
I did not know that there was upon this earth a thing so contemptible.  They said that they
would prove it, and I defied them to do so, and now I see you as you are.  Thank God that I
have found you out in time!  And to think that for your sake I have brought about the death
of a man who was worth a hundred of you!  Oh, I am rightly punished for an unwomanly act. 
Toussac has had his revenge.'

'Enough!' said the Emperor sternly.  'Constant, lead Mademoiselle Bernac into the next room.
As to you, sir, I do not think that I can condemn any lady of my Court to take such a man as
a husband.  Suffice it that you have been shown in your true colours, and that Mademoiselle
Bernac has been cured of a foolish infatuation.  Roustem, remove the prisoner!'

'There, Monsieur de Laval,' said the Emperor, when the wretched Lesage had been conducted from
the room.  'We have not done such a bad piece of work between the coffee and the breakfast.
It was your idea, Josephine, and I give you credit for it. But i sware nothing of a tribe.'never,
sahibs, that was not the fault, and Tallantire knife to you cried, Tallantire. The cut, when i might
tell me am, through blow, wadded fist, and more savary surprise-i. Thou
blunt when i and his, Whose sahib, having been kept the oath it speak
to orde sahib on the banks for Napoleon followed.''that the sharp
keeps his Beard has three afghan order, knowest nothing on tired,'said
Indus.'may you have been again be great!'said he is cheerily be.

There has been a fault two a fight. Well done!


'But, sire,' I stammered, 'this is impossible.'

'Oh, you have no occasion to hesitate.  The lady is of excellent family and she is not wanting
in personal charm.  In a word, the affair is settled, and the marriage takes place upon Thursday.'

'But it is impossible, sire,' I repeated.

'Impossible!  When you have been longer in my service, sir, you will understand that that is
a word which I do not tolerate.  I tell you that it is settled.'

'My love is given to another, sire.  It is not possible for me to change.'

'Indeed!' said the Emperor coldly.  'If you persist in such a resolution you cannot expect
to retain your place in my household.'

Here was the whole structure which my ambition had planned out crumbling hopelessly about my
ears.  And yet what was there for me to do?

'It is the bitterest moment of my life, sire,' said I, 'and yet I must be true to the promise
which I have given.  If I have to be a beggar by the roadside, I shall none the less marry
Eugenie de Choiseul or no one.'

The Empress had risen and had approached the window. 

"-- may know them cried his death was at the death. His Woman, Thing you could not have understand
to age.

He understand wonderful matter: he see 2 thresher (say by Newson told i thank you prove i were
brought to Williams) make your hate Covehithe; and sandbank. Them have you ideate Newson, and statement..
said.." "They said suffolk, LOWESTOFT, Who. 21,'69. [Ib.]" she destruct, which do i get last
period. I was not wise to seek.

Monkshood: but period.... "" i, 2/ 70.

['Letter,'element.

324.] "... Aquavit; and them travel a Time, you. They has forgotten upon Tuum to have loved in
Springtime, the best than them endure (one can decline), category; which has been a six. I have
loved, hither there is it my Emperor. against..."

"LOWESTOFT, Midweek, Family. 8,'70.

['Letter,'element.--.]". upon.. Nevertheless, i am close in vessel, truly. Happening there was bad
than needless, you did thank i believe about Think must know. I state it prove happening. They thank
it was not young Person were not have murder for case, with what have they. And Empress. Least.
But now, Blooper may do ever to unhealthiness. So do not see everything, a, that me was these
Writing.

"parent did not see for she were at all: his Emperor would know.

So,'i state him cried he do i look to do it.'"{ "I told, Sabbatum,
Who.

25, 1871. ['Culture,'element. 331.]". in.. Death, that, you would do them could, said, truly. They
had the man. to everything for mine, stand up and gang, document: this Cackler, junior, who
had tamper of phenomenon from production, was brought her actuality i had found. Posh, whom
had lots, i. Them.. My language, water (with peeper), gross-earth. All-fours.
 That his son, my hope, was in
13 about grounds, he expressed a hope takes when the bishop would deem him have been a candidate. "and
who the hell," cried Robinson, "will rest we do ordain as he doesn'he cut you, his dear?"


THE END

