Nor do I believe that even the particular phrase which has been deemed so fraught with treason
to plutocracy would, if my critic examined it closely, seem to him so very objectionable. His
own doctrine, it is true, sounds severely economical. He holds that "the natural man and the
Christian" who should be moved by his natural folly and Christianity to forego a bottle of
champagne in order to relieve a neighbour in want of actual food, would do a thing "distinctly
criminal and pernicious." Still I presume he would allow, theoretically, as I am very sure
he would practically, a place to natural sympathy. He would not applaud a banquet given in
the midst of a famine, although it might be clearly proved that the money spent by the banqueters
was their own, that those who were perishing of famine had not been robbed of it, that their
bellies were none the emptier because those of the banqueters were full, and that the cookery
gave a stimulus to gastronomic art. He would not, even, think it wholly irrational that the
gloom of the work-house should cast a momentary shadow on the enjoyments of the palace. I should
also expect him to understand the impression that a man of "brain," even one free from any
excessive tenderness of "heart," would not like to see a vast apparatus of luxury, and a great
train of flunkeys devoted to his own material enjoyment--that he would feel it as a slur on
his good sense, as an impeachment of his mental resources, and of his command of nobler elements
of happiness, and even as a degradation of his manhood. There was surely something respectable
in the sentiment which made Mr. Brassey refuse, however much his riches might increase, to
add to his establishment. There is surely something natural in the tendency, which we generally
find coupled with greatness, to simplicity of life. A person whom I knew had dined with a millionaire
tete-a-tete, with six flunkeys standing round the table. I suspect that a man of Mr. Greg's
intellect and character, in spite of his half-ascetic hatred of plush, would rather have been
one of the six than one of the two.

While, however, I hope that my view of these matters coincides practically with that of Mr.
Greg far more than he supposes, I must admit that there may be a certain difference of sentiment
behind. Mr. Greg describes the impressions to which I have given currency as a confused compound
of natural sympathy, vague Christianity, and dim economic science. Of the confusion, vagueness
and dimness of our views, of course we cannot be expected to be conscious; but I own that I
defer, in these matters, not only to natural feeling, but to the ethics of rational Christianity.
I still adhere to the Christian code for want of a better, the Utilitarian system of morality
being, so far as I can see, no morality at all, in the ordinary sense of the term, as it makes
no appeal to our moral nature, our conscience, or whatever philosophers choose to call the
deepest part of humanity. Of course, therefore, I accept as the fundamental principle of human
relations, and of all science concerning them, the great Christian doctrine that "we are every
one members one of another" As a consequence of this doctrine I hold that the wealth of mankind
is morally a common store; that we are morally bound to increase it as much, and to waste it
as little, as we can, that of the two it is happier to be underpaid than to be overpaid; and
that we shall all find it so in the sum of things. There is nothing in such a view in the least
degree subversive of the legal rights of property, which the founders of Christianity distinctly
recognised in their teaching, and strengthened practically by raising the standard of integrity;
nothing adverse to active industry or good business habits; nothing opposed to economic science
as the study of the laws regulating the production and distribution of wealth; nothing condemnatory
of pleasure, provided it be pleasure which opens the heart, as I suppose was the case with
the marriage feast at Cana, not the pleasure which closes the heart, as I fear was the case
with the "refined luxury" of the Marquis of Steyne.

If this is superstition, all that I can say is that I have read Strauss, Renan, Mr. Greg on
the "Creed of Christendom," and all the eminent writers I could hear of on that side, and that
I am not conscious of any bias to the side of orthodoxy, at least I have not given satisfaction
to the orthodox classes.

Christianity, of course, in common with other systems, craves a reasonable construction. Plato
cannot afford to have his apologues treated as histories. In "Joshua Davidson," a good man
is made to turn away from Christianity because he finds that his faith will not literally remove
a mountain and cast it into the sea. But he had omitted an indispensable preliminary. He ought
first to have exactly compared the bulk of his faith with that of a grain of Palestinian mustard
seed. Mr. Greg makes sport of the text "He that hath two coats let him impart to him that hath
none," which he says he heard in his youth, but without ever considering its present applicability.
Yet in the next paragraph but one he gives it a precise and a very important application by
pronouncing that a man is not at liberty to grow wine for himself on land which other people
need for food. I fail to see how the principle involved in this passage, and others of a similar
tendency which I have quoted from Mr. Greg's paper, differ from that involved in Gospel texts
which, if I were to quote them would grate strangely upon his ear. The texts comprise a moral
sanction; but Mr. Greg must have some moral sanction when he forbids a man to do that which
he is permitted to do by law. Christianity, whatever its source and authority, was addressed
at first to childlike minds, and what its antagonists have to prove is not that its forms of
expression or even of thought are adapted to such minds, but that its principles, when rationally
applied to a more advanced state of society, are unsound. Rightly understood it does not seem
to me to enjoin anything eccentric or spasmodic, to bid you enact primitive Orientalism in
the streets of London, thrust fraternity upon writers in the Pall Mall Gazette, or behave generally
as if the "Kingdom of God" were already come. Your duty as a Christian is done if you help
its coming according to the circumstances of your place in society and the age in which you live.

Of course, in subscribing to the Christian code of ethics, one lays oneself open to "retorts
corteous" without limit. But so one does in subscribing to any code, or accepting any standard,
whether moral or of any other kind.

I do not see on what principle Mr. Greg would justify, if he does justify, any sort of charitable
benefactions. Did not Mr. Peabody give his glass of champagne to a man in need? He might have
spent all his money on himself if he had been driven to building Chatsworths, and hanging their
walls with Raffaelles. How will he escape the reproach of having done what was criminal and
pernicious? And what are we to say of the conduct of London plutocrats who abetted his proceedings
by their applause though they abstained from following his example? Is there any apology for
them at all but one essentially Christian? Not that Christianity makes any great fuss over
munificence, or gives political economy reasonable ground for apprehension on that score. Plutocracy
deifies Mr. Peabody; Christianity measures him and pronounces his millions worth less than
the widow's mite.

In my lecture I have applied my principles, or tried to apply them, fairly to the mechanic
as well as to the millionaire. I have deprecated, as immoral, a resort to strikes solely in
the interest of the strikers, without regard to the general interests of industry and of the
community at large. What has my critic to say, from the moral point of view, to the gas stokers
who leave London in the dark, or the colliers who, in struggling to raise their own wages,
condemn the ironworkers to "clamm" for want of coal?

I would venture to suggest that Mr. Greg somewhat overrates in his paper the beneficence of
luxury as an agent in the advancement of civilization. "Artificial wants," he says, "what may
be termed extravagant wants, the wish to possess something beyond the bare necessaries of existence;
the taste for superfluities and luxuries first, the desire for refinements and embellishments
next; the craving for the higher enjoyments of intellect and art as the final stage--these
are the sources and stimulants of advancing civilization. It is these desires, these needs,
which raise mankind above mere animal existence, which, in time and gradually, transform the
savage into the cultured citizen of intelligence and leisure. Ample food once obtained, he
begins to long for better, more varied, more succulent food; the richer nutriment leads on
to the well-stored larder and the well-filled cellar, and culminates in the French cook." The
love of truth, the love of beauty, the effort to realize a high type of individual character,
and a high social ideal, surely these are elements of progress distinct from gastronomy, and
from that special chain of gradual improvement which culminates in the French cook. It may
be doubted whether French cookery does always denote the acme of civilization. Perhaps in the
case of the typical London Alderman, it denotes something like the acme of barbarism, for the
barbarism of the elaborate and expensive glutton surely exceeds that of the child of nature
who gorges himself on the flesh which he has taken in hunting: not to mention that the child
of nature costs humanity nothing, whereas the gourmand devours the labour of the French cook
and probably that of a good many assistants and purveyors.

The greatest service is obviously rendered by any one who can improve human food. "The man
is what he eats," is a truth though somewhat too broadly stated. But then the improvement must
be one ultimately if not immediately accessible to mankind in general. That which requires
a French cook is accessible only to a few.

Again, in setting forth the civilizing effects of expenditure, Mr. Greg, I think, rather leaves
out of sight those of frugality. The Florentines, certainly the leaders of civilization in
their day, were frugal in their personal habits, and by that frugality accumulated the public
wealth which produced Florentine art, and sustained a national policy eminently generous and
beneficent for its time.

Moreover, in estimating the general influence of great fortunes, Mr. Greg seems to take a rather
sanguine view of the probable character and conduct of their possessors. He admits that a broad-acred
peer or opulent commoner "may spend his L30,000 a year in such a manner as to be a curse, a
reproach, and an object of contempt to the community, demoralizing and disgusting all around
him, doing no good to others, and bringing no real enjoyment to himself." But he appears to
think that the normal case, and the one which should govern our general views and policy upon
the subject, is that of a man "of refined taste and intellect expanded to the requirements
of his position, managing his property with care and judgment, so as to set a feasible example
to less wealthy neighbours; prompt to discern and to aid useful undertakings, to succour striving
merit, unearned suffering, and overmatched energy." "Such a man," he says, in a concluding
burst of eloquence, "if his establishment in horses and servants is not immoderate, although
he surrounds himself with all that art can offer to render life beautiful and elegant though
he gathers round him the best productions of the intellect of all countries and ages, though
his gardens and his park are models of curiosity and beauty, though he lets his ancestral trees
rot in their picturesque mutility instead of converting them into profitable timber, and disregards
the fact that his park would be more productive if cut up into potato plots though, in fine
he lives in the very height of elegant, refined and tasteful luxury--I should hesitate to denounce
as consuming on himself the incomes of countless labouring families, and I should imagine that
he might lead his life of temperate and thoughtful joy quietly conscious that his liberal expenditure
enabled scores of these families as well as artists and others to exist in comfort and without
either brain or heart giving way under the burdensome reflection."

It must be by a slip of the pen such as naturally occurs amidst the glow of an enthusiastic
description that the writer speaks of people as enabling others to subsist by their expenditure.
It is clear that people can furnish subsistence to themselves or others only by production.
A rich idler may appear to give bread to an artist or opera girl but the bread really comes
not from the idler but from the workers who pay his rents; the idler is at most the channel
of distribution. The munificence of monarchs who generously lavish the money of the taxpayer
is a familiar case of the same fallacy. This is the illusion of the Irish peasant whose respect
for the spendthrift "gentleman" and contempt for the frugal "sneak" Mr. Greg honours with a
place among the serious elements of an economical and social problem.

But not to dwell on what is so obvious how many let me ask, of the possessors of inherited
wealth in England or in any other country, fulfil or approach Mr. Greg's ideal? I confess that,
as regards the mass of the English squires the passage seems to me almost satire. Refined taste
and expanded intellect, promptness to discern and aid striving merit and unearned suffering,
life surrounded with all that art can do to render it beautiful and elegant, the best productions
of intellect gathered from all intellects and ages--I do not deny that Mr. Greg has seen all
this, but I can hardly believe that he has seen it often, and I suspect that there are probably
people not unfamiliar with the abodes of great landowners who have never seen it at all. Not
to speak of artists and art, what does landed wealth do for popular education? It appears from
the Popular Education Report of 1861 (p. 77) that in a district taken as a fair specimen, the
sum of L4,518, contributed by voluntary subscription towards the support of 168 schools, was
derived from the following sources:

169 clergymen contributed L1,782 or L10 10 0 each 399 landowners    "        2,127 "    5 
6 0  " 2l7 occupiers     "          200 "      18 6  " 102 householders  "          181 " 
1 15 6  " 141 other persons "          228 "    1 12 4  "

The rental of the 399 landowners was estimated at, L650,000 a year. Judging from the result
of my own observations, I should not have been at all surprised if a further analysis of the
return had shown that not only the contributions of the clergy but those of retired professional
men and others with limited incomes were, in proportion, far greater than those of the leviathans
of wealth.

To play the part of Mr. Greg's ideal millionaire, a man must have not only a large heart but
a cultivated mind; and how often are educators successful in getting work out of boys or youths
who know that they have not to make their own bread?

