In several of the Western States the negro race never made its appearance, and in all the Northern
States it is rapidly declining. Thus the great question of its future condition is confined
within a narrow circle, where it becomes less formidable, though not more easy of solution.

The more we descend towards the South, the more difficult does it become to abolish slavery
with advantage: and this arises from several physical causes which it is important to point out.

The first of these causes is the climate; it is well known that in proportion as Europeans
approach the tropics they suffer more from labor. Many of the Americans even assert that within
a certain latitude the exertions which a negro can make without danger are fatal to them; *o
but I do not think that this opinion, which is so favorable to the indolence of the inhabitants
of southern regions, is confirmed by experience. The southern parts of the Union are not hotter
than the South of Italy and of Spain; *p and it may be asked why the European cannot work as
well there as in the two latter countries. If slavery has been abolished in Italy and in Spain
without causing the destruction of the masters, why should not the same thing take place in
the Union? I cannot believe that nature has prohibited the Europeans in Georgia and the Floridas,
under pain of death, from raising the means of subsistence from the soil, but their labor would
unquestionably be more irksome and less productive to them than to the inhabitants of New England.
As the free workman thus loses a portion of his superiority over the slave in the Southern
States, there are fewer inducements to abolish slavery.

[Footnote o: This is true of the spots in which rice is cultivated; rice-grounds, which are
unwholesome in all countries, are particularly dangerous in those regions which are exposed
to the beams of a tropical sun. Europeans would not find it easy to cultivate the soil in that
part of the New World if it must be necessarily be made to produce rice; but may they not subsist
without rice-grounds?]

[Footnote p: These States are nearer to the equator than Italy and Spain, but the temperature
of the continent of America is very much lower than that of Europe.

The Spanish Government formerly caused a certain number of peasants from the Acores to be transported
into a district of Louisiana called Attakapas, by way of experiment. These settlers still cultivate
the soil without the assistance of slaves, but their industry is so languid as scarcely to
supply their most necessary wants.]

All the plants of Europe grow in the northern parts of the Union; the South has special productions
of its own. It has been observed that slave labor is a very expensive method of cultivating
corn. The farmer of corn land in a country where slavery is unknown habitually retains a small
number of laborers in his service, and at seed-time and harvest he hires several additional
hands, who only live at his cost for a short period. But the agriculturist in a slave State
is obliged to keep a large number of slaves the whole year round, in order to sow his fields
and to gather in his crops, although their services are only required for a few weeks; but
slaves are unable to wait till they are hired, and to subsist by their own labor in the mean
time like free laborers; in order to have their services they must be bought. Slavery, independently
of its general disadvantages, is therefore still more inapplicable to countries in which corn
is cultivated than to those which produce crops of a different kind. The cultivation of tobacco,
of cotton, and especially of the sugar-cane, demands, on the other hand, unremitting attention:
and women and children are employed in it, whose services are of but little use in the cultivation
of wheat. Thus slavery is naturally more fitted to the countries from which these productions
are derived. Tobacco, cotton, and the sugar-cane are exclusively grown in the South, and they
form one of the principal sources of the wealth of those States. If slavery were abolished,
the inhabitants of the South would be constrained to adopt one of two alternatives: they must
either change their system of cultivation, and then they would come into competition with the
more active and more experienced inhabitants of the North; or, if they continued to cultivate
the same produce without slave labor, they would have to support the competition of the other
States of the South, which might still retain their slaves. Thus, peculiar reasons for maintaining
slavery exist in the South which do not operate in the North.

But there is yet another motive which is more cogent than all the others: the South might indeed,
rigorously speaking, abolish slavery; but how should it rid its territory of the black population?
Slaves and slavery are driven from the North by the same law, but this twofold result cannot
be hoped for in the South.

The arguments which I have adduced to show that slavery is more natural and more advantageous
in the South than in the North, sufficiently prove that the number of slaves must be far greater
in the former districts. It was to the southern settlements that the first Africans were brought,
and it is there that the greatest number of them have always been imported. As we advance towards
the South, the prejudice which sanctions idleness increases in power. In the States nearest
to the tropics there is not a single white laborer; the negroes are consequently much more
numerous in the South than in the North. And, as I have already observed, this disproportion
increases daily, since the negroes are transferred to one part of the Union as soon as slavery
is abolished in the other. Thus the black population augments in the South, not only by its
natural fecundity, but by the compulsory emigration of the negroes from the North; and the
African race has causes of increase in the South very analogous to those which so powerfully
accelerate the growth of the European race in the North.

In the State of Maine there is one negro in 300 inhabitants; in Massachusetts, one in 100;
in New York, two in 100; in Pennsylvania, three in the same number; in Maryland, thirty-four;
in Virginia, forty-two; and lastly, in South Carolina *q fifty-five per cent. Such was the
proportion of the black population to the whites in the year 1830. But this proportion is perpetually
changing, as it constantly decreases in the North and augments in the South.

[Footnote q: We find it asserted in an American work, entitled "Letters on the Colonization
Society," by Mr. Carey, 1833, "That for the last forty years the black race has increased more
rapidly than the white race in the State of South Carolina; and that if we take the average
population of the five States of the South into which slaves were first introduced, viz., Maryland,
Virginia, South Carolina, North Carolina, and Georgia, we shall find that from 1790 to 1830
the whites have augmented in the proportion of 80 to 100, and the blacks in that of 112 to 100."

In the United States, in 1830, the population of the two races stood as follows:--

States where slavery is abolished, 6,565,434 whites; 120,520 blacks. Slave States, 3,960,814
whites; 2,208,102 blacks. [In 1890 the United States contained a population of 54,983,890 whites,
and 7,638,360 negroes.]]

It is evident that the most Southern States of the Union cannot abolish slavery without incurring
very great dangers, which the North had no reason to apprehend when it emancipated its black
population. We have already shown the system by which the Northern States secure the transition
from slavery to freedom, by keeping the present generation in chains, and setting their descendants
free; by this means the negroes are gradually introduced into society; and whilst the men who
might abuse their freedom are kept in a state of servitude, those who are emancipated may learn
the art of being free before they become their own masters. But it would be difficult to apply
this method in the South. To declare that all the negroes born after a certain period shall
be free, is to introduce the principle and the notion of liberty into the heart of slavery;
the blacks whom the law thus maintains in a state of slavery from which their children are
delivered, are astonished at so unequal a fate, and their astonishment is only the prelude
to their impatience and irritation. Thenceforward slavery loses, in their eyes, that kind of
moral power which it derived from time and habit; it is reduced to a mere palpable abuse of
force. The Northern States had nothing to fear from the contrast, because in them the blacks
were few in number, and the white population was very considerable. But if this faint dawn
of freedom were to show two millions of men their true position, the oppressors would have
reason to tremble. After having affranchised the children of their slaves the Europeans of
the Southern States would very shortly be obliged to extend the same benefit to the whole black
population.

Chapter XVIII: Future Condition Of Three Races--Part V

In the North, as I have already remarked, a twofold migration ensues upon the abolition of
slavery, or even precedes that event when circumstances have rendered it probable; the slaves
quit the country to be transported southwards; and the whites of the Northern States, as well
as the emigrants from Europe, hasten to fill up their place. But these two causes cannot operate
in the same manner in the Southern States. On the one hand, the mass of slaves is too great
for any expectation of their ever being removed from the country to be entertained; and on
the other hand, the Europeans and Anglo-Americans of the North are afraid to come to inhabit
a country in which labor has not yet been reinstated in its rightful honors. Besides, they
very justly look upon the States in which the proportion of the negroes equals or exceeds that
of the whites, as exposed to very great dangers; and they refrain from turning their activity
in that direction.

Thus the inhabitants of the South would not be able, like their Northern countrymen, to initiate
the slaves gradually into a state of freedom by abolishing slavery; they have no means of perceptibly
diminishing the black population, and they would remain unsupported to repress its excesses.
So that in the course of a few years, a great people of free negroes would exist in the heart
of a white nation of equal size.

The same abuses of power which still maintain slavery, would then become the source of the
most alarming perils which the white population of the South might have to apprehend. At the
present time the descendants of the Europeans are the sole owners of the land; the absolute
masters of all labor; and the only persons who are possessed of wealth, knowledge, and arms.
The black is destitute of all these advantages, but he subsists without them because he is
a slave. If he were free, and obliged to provide for his own subsistence, would it be possible
for him to remain without these things and to support life? Or would not the very instruments
of the present superiority of the white, whilst slavery exists, expose him to a thousand dangers
if it were abolished?

As long as the negro remains a slave, he may be kept in a condition not very far removed from
that of the brutes; but, with his liberty, he cannot but acquire a degree of instruction which
will enable him to appreciate his misfortunes, and to discern a remedy for them. Moreover,
there exists a singular principle of relative justice which is very firmly implanted in the
human heart. Men are much more forcibly struck by those inequalities which exist within the
circle of the same class, than with those which may be remarked between different classes.
It is more easy for them to admit slavery, than to allow several millions of citizens to exist
under a load of eternal infamy and hereditary wretchedness. In the North the population of
freed negroes feels these hardships and resents these indignities; but its numbers and its
powers are small, whilst in the South it would be numerous and strong.

As soon as it is admitted that the whites and the emancipated blacks are placed upon the same
territory in the situation of two alien communities, it will readily be understood that there
are but two alternatives for the future; the negroes and the whites must either wholly part
or wholly mingle. I have already expressed the conviction which I entertain as to the latter
event. *r I do not imagine that the white and black races will ever live in any country upon
an equal footing. But I believe the difficulty to be still greater in the United States than
elsewhere. An isolated individual may surmount the prejudices of religion, of his country,
or of his race, and if this individual is a king he may effect surprising changes in society;
but a whole people cannot rise, as it were, above itself. A despot who should subject the Americans
and their former slaves to the same yoke, might perhaps succeed in commingling their races;
but as long as the American democracy remains at the head of affairs, no one will undertake
so difficult a task; and it may be foreseen that the freer the white population of the United
States becomes, the more isolated will it remain. *s

[Footnote r: This opinion is sanctioned by authorities infinitely weightier than anything that
I can say: thus, for instance, it is stated in the "Memoirs of Jefferson" (as collected by
M. Conseil), "Nothing is more clearly written in the book of destiny than the emancipation
of the blacks; and it is equally certain that the two races will never live in a state of equal
freedom under the same government, so insurmountable are the barriers which nature, habit,
and opinions have established between them."]

[Footnote s: If the British West India planters had governed themselves, they would assuredly
not have passed the Slave Emancipation Bill which the mother-country has recently imposed upon
them.]

I have previously observed that the mixed race is the true bond of union between the Europeans
and the Indians; just so the mulattoes are the true means of transition between the white and
the negro; so that wherever mulattoes abound, the intermixture of the two races is not impossible.
In some parts of America, the European and the negro races are so crossed by one another, that
it is rare to meet with a man who is entirely black, or entirely white: when they are arrived
at this point, the two races may really be said to be combined; or rather to have been absorbed
in a third race, which is connected with both without being identical with either.

Of all the Europeans the English are those who have mixed least with the negroes. More mulattoes
are to be seen in the South of the Union than in the North, but still they are infinitely more
scarce than in any other European colony: mulattoes are by no means numerous in the United
States; they have no force peculiar to themselves, and when quarrels originating in differences
of color take place, they generally side with the whites; just as the lackeys of the great,
in Europe, assume the contemptuous airs of nobility to the lower orders.

The pride of origin, which is natural to the English, is singularly augmented by the personal
pride which democratic liberty fosters amongst the Americans: the white citizen of the United
States is proud of his race, and proud of himself. But if the whites and the negroes do not
intermingle in the North of the Union, how should they mix in the South? Can it be supposed
for an instant, that an American of the Southern States, placed, as he must forever be, between
the white man with all his physical and moral superiority and the negro, will ever think of
preferring the latter? The Americans of the Southern States have two powerful passions which
will always keep them aloof; the first is the fear of being assimilated to the negroes, their
former slaves; and the second the dread of sinking below the whites, their neighbors.

If I were called upon to predict what will probably occur at some future time, I should say,
that the abolition of slavery in the South will, in the common course of things, increase the
repugnance of the white population for the men of color. I found this opinion upon the analogous
observation which I already had occasion to make in the North. I there remarked that the white
inhabitants of the North avoid the negroes with increasing care, in proportion as the legal
barriers of separation are removed by the legislature; and why should not the same result take
place in the South? In the North, the whites are deterred from intermingling with the blacks
by the fear of an imaginary danger; in the South, where the danger would be real, I cannot
imagine that the fear would be less general.

If, on the one hand, it be admitted (and the fact is unquestionable) that the colored population
perpetually accumulates in the extreme South, and that it increases more rapidly than that
of the whites; and if, on the other hand, it be allowed that it is impossible to foresee a
time at which the whites and the blacks will be so intermingled as to derive the same benefits
from society; must it not be inferred that the blacks and the whites will, sooner or later,
come to open strife in the Southern States of the Union? But if it be asked what the issue
of the struggle is likely to be, it will readily be understood that we are here left to form
a very vague surmise of the truth. The human mind may succeed in tracing a wide circle, as
it were, which includes the course of future events; but within that circle a thousand various
chances and circumstances may direct it in as many different ways; and in every picture of
the future there is a dim spot, which the eye of the understanding cannot penetrate. It appears,
however, to be extremely probable that in the West Indian Islands the white race is destined
to be subdued, and the black population to share the same fate upon the continent.

In the West India Islands the white planters are surrounded by an immense black population;
on the continent, the blacks are placed between the ocean and an innumerable people, which
already extends over them in a dense mass, from the icy confines of Canada to the frontiers
of Virginia, and from the banks of the Missouri to the shores of the Atlantic. If the white
citizens of North America remain united, it cannot be supposed that the negroes will escape
the destruction with which they are menaced; they must be subdued by want or by the sword.
But the black population which is accumulated along the coast of the Gulf of Mexico, has a
chance of success if the American Union is dissolved when the struggle between the two races
begins. If the federal tie were broken, the citizens of the South would be wrong to rely upon
any lasting succor from their Northern countrymen. The latter are well aware that the danger
can never reach them; and unless they are constrained to march to the assistance of the South
by a positive obligation, it may be foreseen that the sympathy of color will be insufficient
to stimulate their exertions.

Yet, at whatever period the strife may break out, the whites of the South, even if they are
abandoned to their own resources, will enter the lists with an immense superiority of knowledge
and of the means of warfare; but the blacks will have numerical strength and the energy of
despair upon their side, and these are powerful resources to men who have taken up arms. The
fate of the white population of the Southern States will, perhaps, be similar to that of the
Moors in Spain. After having occupied the land for centuries, it will perhaps be forced to
retire to the country whence its ancestors came, and to abandon to the negroes the possession
of a territory, which Providence seems to have more peculiarly destined for them, since they
can subsist and labor in it more easily that the whites.

The danger of a conflict between the white and the black inhabitants of the Southern States
of the Union--a danger which, however remote it may be, is inevitable--perpetually haunts the
imagination of the Americans. The inhabitants of the North make it a common topic of conversation,
although they have no direct injury to fear from the struggle; but they vainly endeavor to
devise some means of obviating the misfortunes which they foresee. In the Southern States the
subject is not discussed: the planter does not allude to the future in conversing with strangers;
the citizen does not communicate his apprehensions to his friends; he seeks to conceal them
from himself; but there is something more alarming in the tacit forebodings of the South, than
in the clamorous fears of the Northern States.

This all-pervading disquietude has given birth to an undertaking which is but little known,
but which may have the effect of changing the fate of a portion of the human race. From apprehension
of the dangers which I have just been describing, a certain number of American citizens have
formed a society for the purpose of exporting to the coast of Guinea, at their own expense,
such free negroes as may be willing to escape from the oppression to which they are subject.
*t In 1820, the society to which I allude formed a settlement in Africa, upon the seventh degree
of north latitude, which bears the name of Liberia. The most recent intelligence informs us
that 2,500 negroes are collected there; they have introduced the democratic institutions of
America into the country of their forefathers; and Liberia has a representative system of government,
negro jurymen, negro magistrates, and negro priests; churches have been built, newspapers established,
and, by a singular change in the vicissitudes of the world, white men are prohibited from sojourning
within the settlement. *u

[Footnote t: This society assumed the name of "The Society for the Colonization of the Blacks."
See its annual reports; and more particularly the fifteenth. See also the pamphlet, to which
allusion has already been made, entitled "Letters on the Colonization Society, and on its probable
Results," by Mr. Carey, Philadelphia, 1833.]

[Footnote u: This last regulation was laid down by the founders of the settlement; they apprehended
that a state of things might arise in Africa similar to that which exists on the frontiers
of the United States, and that if the negroes, like the Indians, were brought into collision
with a people more enlightened than themselves, they would be destroyed before they could be
civilized.]

This is indeed a strange caprice of fortune. Two hundred years have now elapsed since the inhabitants
of Europe undertook to tear the negro from his family and his home, in order to transport him
to the shores of North America; at the present day, the European settlers are engaged in sending
back the descendants of those very negroes to the Continent from which they were originally
taken; and the barbarous Africans have been brought into contact with civilization in the midst
of bondage, and have become acquainted with free political institutions in slavery. Up to the
present time Africa has been closed against the arts and sciences of the whites; but the inventions
of Europe will perhaps penetrate into those regions, now that they are introduced by Africans
themselves. The settlement of Liberia is founded upon a lofty and a most fruitful idea; but
whatever may be its results with regard to the Continent of Africa, it can afford no remedy
to the New World.

In twelve years the Colonization Society has transported 2,500 negroes to Africa; in the same
space of time about 700,000 blacks were born in the United States. If the colony of Liberia
were so situated as to be able to receive thousands of new inhabitants every year, and if the
negroes were in a state to be sent thither with advantage; if the Union were to supply the
society with annual subsidies, *v and to transport the negroes to Africa in the vessels of
the State, it would still be unable to counterpoise the natural increase of population amongst
the blacks; and as it could not remove as many men in a year as are born upon its territory
within the same space of time, it would fail in suspending the growth of the evil which is
daily increasing in the States. *w The negro race will never leave those shores of the American
continent, to which it was brought by the passions and the vices of Europeans; and it will
not disappear from the New World as long as it continues to exist. The inhabitants of the United
States may retard the calamities which they apprehend, but they cannot now destroy their efficient
cause.

[Footnote v: Nor would these be the only difficulties attendant upon the undertaking; if the
Union undertook to buy up the negroes now in America, in order to transport them to Africa,
the price of slaves, increasing with their scarcity, would soon become enormous; and the States
of the North would never consent to expend such great sums for a purpose which would procure
such small advantages to themselves. If the Union took possession of the slaves in the Southern
States by force, or at a rate determined by law, an insurmountable resistance would arise in
that part of the country. Both alternatives are equally impossible.]

[Footnote w: In 1830 there were in the United States 2,010,327 slaves and 319,439 free blacks,
in all 2,329,766 negroes: which formed about one-fifth of the total population of the United
States at that time.]

I am obliged to confess that I do not regard the abolition of slavery as a means of warding
off the struggle of the two races in the United States. The negroes may long remain slaves
without complaining; but if they are once raised to the level of free men, they will soon revolt
at being deprived of all their civil rights; and as they cannot become the equals of the whites,
they will speedily declare themselves as enemies. In the North everything contributed to facilitate
the emancipation of the slaves; and slavery was abolished, without placing the free negroes
in a position which could become formidable, since their number was too small for them ever
to claim the exercise of their rights. But such is not the case in the South. The question
of slavery was a question of commerce and manufacture for the slave-owners in the North; for
those of the South, it is a question of life and death. God forbid that I should seek to justify
the principle of negro slavery, as has been done by some American writers! But I only observe
that all the countries which formerly adopted that execrable principle are not equally able
to abandon it at the present time.

When I contemplate the condition of the South, I can only discover two alternatives which may
be adopted by the white inhabitants of those States; viz., either to emancipate the negroes,
and to intermingle with them; or, remaining isolated from them, to keep them in a state of
slavery as long as possible. All intermediate measures seem to me likely to terminate, and
that shortly, in the most horrible of civil wars, and perhaps in the extirpation of one or
other of the two races. Such is the view which the Americans of the South take of the question,
and they act consistently with it. As they are determined not to mingle with the negroes, they
refuse to emancipate them.

Not that the inhabitants of the South regard slavery as necessary to the wealth of the planter,
for on this point many of them agree with their Northern countrymen in freely admitting that
slavery is prejudicial to their interest; but they are convinced that, however prejudicial
it may be, they hold their lives upon no other tenure. The instruction which is now diffused
in the South has convinced the inhabitants that slavery is injurious to the slave-owner, but
it has also shown them, more clearly than before, that no means exist of getting rid of its
bad consequences. Hence arises a singular contrast; the more the utility of slavery is contested,
the more firmly is it established in the laws; and whilst the principle of servitude is gradually
abolished in the North, that self-same principle gives rise to more and more rigorous consequences
in the South.

The legislation of the Southern States with regard to slaves, presents at the present day such
unparalleled atrocities as suffice to show how radically the laws of humanity have been perverted,
and to betray the desperate position of the community in which that legislation has been promulgated.
The Americans of this portion of the Union have not, indeed, augmented the hardships of slavery;
they have, on the contrary, bettered the physical condition of the slaves. The only means by
which the ancients maintained slavery were fetters and death; the Americans of the South of
the Union have discovered more intellectual securities for the duration of their power. They
have employed their despotism and their violence against the human mind. In antiquity, precautions
were taken to prevent the slave from breaking his chains; at the present day measures are adopted
to deprive him even of the desire of freedom. The ancients kept the bodies of their slaves
in bondage, but they placed no restraint upon the mind and no check upon education; and they
acted consistently with their established principle, since a natural termination of slavery
then existed, and one day or other the slave might be set free, and become the equal of his
master. But the Americans of the South, who do not admit that the negroes can ever be commingled
with themselves, have forbidden them to be taught to read or to write, under severe penalties;
and as they will not raise them to their own level, they sink them as nearly as possible to
that of the brutes.

The hope of liberty had always been allowed to the slave to cheer the hardships of his condition.
But the Americans of the South are well aware that emancipation cannot but be dangerous, when
the freed man can never be assimilated to his former master. To give a man his freedom, and
to leave him in wretchedness and ignominy, is nothing less than to prepare a future chief for
a revolt of the slaves. Moreover, it has long been remarked that the presence of a free negro
vaguely agitates the minds of his less fortunate brethren, and conveys to them a dim notion
of their rights. The Americans of the South have consequently taken measures to prevent slave-owners
from emancipating their slaves in most cases; not indeed by a positive prohibition, but by
subjecting that step to various forms which it is difficult to comply with. I happened to meet
with an old man, in the South of the Union, who had lived in illicit intercourse with one of
his negresses, and had had several children by her, who were born the slaves of their father.
He had indeed frequently thought of bequeathing to them at least their liberty; but years had
elapsed without his being able to surmount the legal obstacles to their emancipation, and in
the mean while his old age was come, and he was about to die. He pictured to himself his sons
dragged from market to market, and passing from the authority of a parent to the rod of the
stranger, until these horrid anticipations worked his expiring imagination into frenzy. When
I saw him he was a prey to all the anguish of despair, and he made me feel how awful is the
retribution of nature upon those who have broken her laws.

These evils are unquestionably great; but they are the necessary and foreseen consequence of
the very principle of modern slavery. When the Europeans chose their slaves from a race differing
from their own, which many of them considered as inferior to the other races of mankind, and
which they all repelled with horror from any notion of intimate connection, they must have
believed that slavery would last forever; since there is no intermediate state which can be
durable between the excessive inequality produced by servitude and the complete equality which
originates in independence. The Europeans did imperfectly feel this truth, but without acknowledging
it even to themselves. Whenever they have had to do with negroes, their conduct has either
been dictated by their interest and their pride, or by their compassion. They first violated
every right of humanity by their treatment of the negro and they afterwards informed him that
those rights were precious and inviolable. They affected to open their ranks to the slaves,
but the negroes who attempted to penetrate into the community were driven back with scorn;
and they have incautiously and involuntarily been led to admit of freedom instead of slavery,
without having the courage to be wholly iniquitous, or wholly just.

If it be impossible to anticipate a period at which the Americans of the South will mingle
their blood with that of the negroes, can they allow their slaves to become free without compromising
their own security? And if they are obliged to keep that race in bondage in order to save their
own families, may they not be excused for availing themselves of the means best adapted to
that end? The events which are taking place in the Southern States of the Union appear to me
to be at once the most horrible and the most natural results of slavery. When I see the order
of nature overthrown, and when I hear the cry of humanity in its vain struggle against the
laws, my indignation does not light upon the men of our own time who are the instruments of
these outrages; but I reserve my execration for those who, after a thousand years of freedom,
brought back slavery into the world once more.

Whatever may be the efforts of the Americans of the South to maintain slavery, they will not
always succeed. Slavery, which is now confined to a single tract of the civilized earth, which
is attacked by Christianity as unjust, and by political economy as prejudicial; and which is
now contrasted with democratic liberties and the information of our age, cannot survive. By
the choice of the master, or by the will of the slave, it will cease; and in either case great
calamities may be expected to ensue. If liberty be refused to the negroes of the South, they
will in the end seize it for themselves by force; if it be given, they will abuse it ere long. *x

[Footnote x: [This chapter is no longer applicable to the condition of the negro race in the
United States, since the abolition of slavery was the result, though not the object, of the
great Civil War, and the negroes have been raised to the condition not only of freedmen, but
of citizens; and in some States they exercise a preponderating political power by reason of
their numerical majority. Thus, in South Carolina there were in 1870, 289,667 whites and 415,814
blacks. But the emancipation of the slaves has not solved the problem, how two races so different
and so hostile are to live together in peace in one country on equal terms. That problem is
as difficult, perhaps more difficult than ever; and to this difficulty the author's remarks
are still perfectly applicable.]]

Chapter XVIII: Future Condition Of Three Races--Part VI

What Are The Chances In Favor Of The Duration Of The American Union, And What Dangers Threaten
It *y

[Footnote y: [This chapter is one of the most curious and interesting portions of the work,
because it embraces almost all the constitutional and social questions which were raised by
the great secession of the South and decided by the results of the Civil War. But it must be
confessed that the sagacity of the author is sometimes at fault in these speculations, and
did not save him from considerable errors, which the course of events has since made apparent.
He held that "the legislators of the Constitution of 1789 were not appointed to constitute
the government of a single people, but to regulate the association of several States; that
the Union was formed by the voluntary agreement of the States, and in uniting together they
have not forfeited their nationality, nor have they been reduced to the condition of one and
the same people." Whence he inferred that "if one of the States chose to withdraw its name
from the contract, it would be difficult to disprove its right of doing so; and that the Federal
Government would have no means of maintaining its claims directly, either by force or by right."
This is the Southern theory of the Constitution, and the whole case of the South in favor of
secession. To many Europeans, and to some American (Northern) jurists, this view appeared to
be sound; but it was vigorously resisted by the North, and crushed by force of arms.

The author of this book was mistaken in supposing that the "Union was a vast body which presents
no definite object to patriotic feeling." When the day of trial came, millions of men were
ready to lay down their lives for it. He was also mistaken in supposing that the Federal Executive
is so weak that it requires the free consent of the governed to enable it to subsist, and that
it would be defeated in a struggle to maintain the Union against one or more separate States.
In 1861 nine States, with a population of 8,753,000, seceded, and maintained for four years
a resolute but unequal contest for independence, but they were defeated.

Lastly, the author was mistaken in supposing that a community of interests would always prevail
between North and South sufficiently powerful to bind them together. He overlooked the influence
which the question of slavery must have on the Union the moment that the majority of the people
of the North declared against it. In 1831, when the author visited America, the anti-slavery
agitation had scarcely begun; and the fact of Southern slavery was accepted by men of all parties,
even in the States where there were no slaves: and that was unquestionably the view taken by
all the States and by all American statesmen at the time of the adoption of the Constitution,
in 1789. But in the course of thirty years a great change took place, and the North refused
to perpetuate what had become the "peculiar institution" of the South, especially as it gave
the South a species of aristocratic preponderance. The emancipation of several millions of
negro slaves without compensation, and the transfer to them of political preponderance in the
States in which they outnumber the white population, were acts of the North totally opposed
to the interests of the South, and which could only have been carried into effect by conquest.--Translator's
Note.]]

Reason for which the preponderating force lies in the States rather than in the Union--The
Union will only last as long as all the States choose to belong to it--Causes which tend to
keep them united--Utility of the Union to resist foreign enemies, and to prevent the existence
of foreigners in America--No natural barriers between the several States--No conflicting interests
to divide them--Reciprocal interests of the Northern, Southern, and Western States--Intellectual
ties of union--Uniformity of opinions--Dangers of the Union resulting from the different characters
and the passions of its citizens--Character of the citizens in the South and in the North--The
rapid growth of the Union one of its greatest dangers--Progress of the population to the Northwest--Power
gravitates in the same direction--Passions originating from sudden turns of fortune--Whether
the existing Government of the Union tends to gain strength, or to lose it--Various signs of
its decrease--Internal improvements--Waste lands--Indians--The Bank--The Tariff--General Jackson.

The maintenance of the existing institutions of the several States depends in some measure
upon the maintenance of the Union itself. It is therefore important in the first instance to
inquire into the probable fate of the Union. One point may indeed be assumed at once: if the
present confederation were dissolved, it appears to me to be incontestable that the States
of which it is now composed would not return to their original isolated condition, but that
several unions would then be formed in the place of one. It is not my intention to inquire
into the principles upon which these new unions would probably be established, but merely to
show what the causes are which may effect the dismemberment of the existing confederation.

With this object I shall be obliged to retrace some of the steps which I have already taken,
and to revert to topics which I have before discussed. I am aware that the reader may accuse
me of repetition, but the importance of the matter which still remains to be treated is my
excuse; I had rather say too much, than say too little to be thoroughly understood, and I prefer
injuring the author to slighting the subject.

The legislators who formed the Constitution of 1789 endeavored to confer a distinct and preponderating
authority upon the federal power. But they were confined by the conditions of the task which
they had undertaken to perform.

In order to understand the consequences of this division, it is necessary to make a short distinction
between the affairs of the Government. There are some objects which are national by their very
nature, that is to say, which affect the nation as a body, and can only be intrusted to the
man or the assembly of men who most completely represent the entire nation. Amongst these may
be reckoned war and diplomacy. There are other objects which are provincial by their very nature,
that is to say, which only affect certain localities, and which can only be properly treated
in that locality. Such, for instance, is the budget of a municipality. Lastly, there are certain
objects of a mixed nature, which are national inasmuch as they affect all the citizens who
compose the nation, and which are provincial inasmuch as it is not necessary that the nation
itself should provide for them all. Such are the rights which regulate the civil and political
condition of the citizens. No society can exist without civil and political rights. These rights
therefore interest all the citizens alike; but it is not always necessary to the existence
and the prosperity of the nation that these rights should be uniform, nor, consequently, that
they should be regulated by the central authority.

There are, then, two distinct categories of objects which are submitted to the direction of
the sovereign power; and these categories occur in all well-constituted communities, whatever
the basis of the political constitution may otherwise be. Between these two extremes the objects
which I have termed mixed may be considered to lie. As these objects are neither exclusively
national nor entirely provincial, they may be obtained by a national or by a provincial government,
according to the agreement of the contracting parties, without in any way impairing the contract
of association.

The sovereign power is usually formed by the union of separate individuals, who compose a people;
and individual powers or collective forces, each representing a very small portion of the sovereign
authority, are the sole elements which are subjected to the general Government of their choice.
In this case the general Government is more naturally called upon to regulate, not only those
affairs which are of essential national importance, but those which are of a more local interest;
and the local governments are reduced to that small share of sovereign authority which is indispensable
to their prosperity.

But sometimes the sovereign authority is composed of preorganized political bodies, by virtue
of circumstances anterior to their union; and in this case the provincial governments assume
the control, not only of those affairs which more peculiarly belong to their province, but
of all, or of a part of the mixed affairs to which allusion has been made. For the confederate
nations which were independent sovereign States before their union, and which still represent
a very considerable share of the sovereign power, have only consented to cede to the general
Government the exercise of those rights which are indispensable to the Union.

When the national Government, independently of the prerogatives inherent in its nature, is
invested with the right of regulating the affairs which relate partly to the general and partly
to the local interests, it possesses a preponderating influence. Not only are its own rights
extensive, but all the rights which it does not possess exist by its sufferance, and it may
be apprehended that the provincial governments may be deprived of their natural and necessary
prerogatives by its influence.

When, on the other hand, the provincial governments are invested with the power of regulating
those same affairs of mixed interest, an opposite tendency prevails in society. The preponderating
force resides in the province, not in the nation; and it may be apprehended that the national
Government may in the end be stripped of the privileges which are necessary to its existence.

Independent nations have therefore a natural tendency to centralization, and confederations
to dismemberment.

It now only remains for us to apply these general principles to the American Union. The several
States were necessarily possessed of the right of regulating all exclusively provincial affairs.
Moreover these same States retained the rights of determining the civil and political competency
of the citizens, or regulating the reciprocal relations of the members of the community, and
of dispensing justice; rights which are of a general nature, but which do not necessarily appertain
to the national Government. We have shown that the Government of the Union is invested with
the power of acting in the name of the whole nation in those cases in which the nation has
to appear as a single and undivided power; as, for instance, in foreign relations, and in offering
a common resistance to a common enemy; in short, in conducting those affairs which I have styled
exclusively national.

In this division of the rights of sovereignty, the share of the Union seems at first sight
to be more considerable than that of the States; but a more attentive investigation shows it
to be less so. The undertakings of the Government of the Union are more vast, but their influence
is more rarely felt. Those of the provincial governments are comparatively small, but they
are incessant, and they serve to keep alive the authority which they represent. The Government
of the Union watches the general interests of the country; but the general interests of a people
have a very questionable influence upon individual happiness, whilst provincial interests produce
a most immediate effect upon the welfare of the inhabitants. The Union secures the independence
and the greatness of the nation, which do not immediately affect private citizens; but the
several States maintain the liberty, regulate the rights, protect the fortune, and secure the
life and the whole future prosperity of every citizen.

The Federal Government is very far removed from its subjects, whilst the provincial governments
are within the reach of them all, and are ready to attend to the smallest appeal. The central
Government has upon its side the passions of a few superior men who aspire to conduct it; but
upon the side of the provincial governments are the interests of all those second-rate individuals
who can only hope to obtain power within their own State, and who nevertheless exercise the
largest share of authority over the people because they are placed nearest to its level. The
Americans have therefore much more to hope and to fear from the States than from the Union;
and, in conformity with the natural tendency of the human mind, they are more likely to attach
themselves to the former than to the latter. In this respect their habits and feelings harmonize
with their interests.

When a compact nation divides its sovereignty, and adopts a confederate form of government,
the traditions, the customs, and the manners of the people are for a long time at variance
with their legislation; and the former tend to give a degree of influence to the central government
which the latter forbids. When a number of confederate states unite to form a single nation,
the same causes operate in an opposite direction. I have no doubt that if France were to become
a confederate republic like that of the United States, the government would at first display
more energy than that of the Union; and if the Union were to alter its constitution to a monarchy
like that of France, I think that the American Government would be a long time in acquiring
the force which now rules the latter nation. When the national existence of the Anglo-Americans
began, their provincial existence was already of long standing; necessary relations were established
between the townships and the individual citizens of the same States; and they were accustomed
to consider some objects as common to them all, and to conduct other affairs as exclusively
relating to their own special interests. The forms and limits of the State are distinct and
circumscribed; since it represents a certain number of objects which are familiar to the citizens
and beloved by all. It is identified with the very soil, with the right of property and the
domestic affections, with the recollections of the past, the labors of the present, and the
hopes of the future. Patriotism, then, which is frequently a mere extension of individual egotism,
is still directed to the State, and is not excited by the Union. Thus the tendency of the interests,
the habits, and the feelings of the people is to centre political activity in the States, in
preference to the Union.

It is easy to estimate the different forces of the two governments, by remarking the manner
in which they fulfil their respective functions. Whenever the government of a State has occasion
to address an individual or an assembly of individuals, its language is clear and imperative;
and such is also the tone of the Federal Government in its intercourse with individuals, but
no sooner has it anything to do with a State than it begins to parley, to explain its motives
and to justify its conduct, to argue, to advise, and, in short, anything but to command. If
doubts are raised as to the limits of the constitutional powers of each government, the provincial
government prefers its claim with boldness, and takes prompt and energetic steps to support
it. In the mean while the Government of the Union reasons; it appeals to the interests, to
the good sense, to the glory of the nation; it temporizes, it negotiates, and does not consent
to act until it is reduced to the last extremity. At first sight it might readily be imagined
that it is the provincial government which is armed with the authority of the nation, and that
Congress represents a single State.

The Federal Government is, therefore, notwithstanding the precautions of those who founded
it, naturally so weak that it more peculiarly requires the free consent of the governed to
enable it to subsist. It is easy to perceive that its object is to enable the States to realize
with facility their determination of remaining united; and, as long as this preliminary condition
exists, its authority is great, temperate, and effective. The Constitution fits the Government
to control individuals, and easily to surmount such obstacles as they may be inclined to offer;
but it was by no means established with a view to the possible separation of one or more of
the States from the Union. [This note, and the paragraph in the text which precedes, have been
shown by the results of the Civil War to be a misconception of the writer.]]

However strong a government may be, it cannot easily escape from the consequences of a principle
which it has once admitted as the foundation of its constitution. In order to enable the Federal
Government easily to conquer the resistance which may be offered to it by any one of its subjects,
it would be necessary that one or more of them should be specially interested in the existence
of the Union, as has frequently been the case in the history of confederations.

If it be supposed that amongst the States which are united by the federal tie there are some
which exclusively enjoy the principal advantages of union, or whose prosperity depends on the
duration of that union, it is unquestionable that they will always be ready to support the
central Government in enforcing the obedience of the others. But the Government would then
be exerting a force not derived from itself, but from a principle contrary to its nature. States
form confederations in order to derive equal advantages from their union; and in the case just
alluded to, the Federal Government would derive its power from the unequal distribution of
those benefits amongst the States.

If one of the confederate States have acquired a preponderance sufficiently great to enable
it to take exclusive possession of the central authority, it will consider the other States
as subject provinces, and it will cause its own supremacy to be respected under the borrowed
name of the sovereignty of the Union. Great things may then be done in the name of the Federal
Government, but in reality that Government will have ceased to exist. *b In both these cases,
the power which acts in the name of the confederation becomes stronger the more it abandons
the natural state and the acknowledged principles of confederations.

[Footnote b: Thus the province of Holland in the republic of the Low Countries, and the Emperor
in the Germanic Confederation, have sometimes put themselves in the place of the union, and
have employed the federal authority to their own advantage.]

In America the existing Union is advantageous to all the States, but it is not indispensable
to any one of them. Several of them might break the federal tie without compromising the welfare
of the others, although their own prosperity would be lessened. As the existence and the happiness
of none of the States are wholly dependent on the present Constitution, they would none of
them be disposed to make great personal sacrifices to maintain it. On the other hand, there
is no State which seems hitherto to have its ambition much interested in the maintenance of
the existing Union. They certainly do not all exercise the same influence in the federal councils,
but no one of them can hope to domineer over the rest, or to treat them as its inferiors or
as its subjects.

It appears to me unquestionable that if any portion of the Union seriously desired to separate
itself from the other States, they would not be able, nor indeed would they attempt, to prevent
it; and that the present Union will only last as long as the States which compose it choose
to continue members of the confederation. If this point be admitted, the question becomes less
difficult; and our object is, not to inquire whether the States of the existing Union are capable
of separating, but whether they will choose to remain united.

Amongst the various reasons which tend to render the existing Union useful to the Americans,
two principal causes are peculiarly evident to the observer. Although the Americans are, as
it were, alone upon their continent, their commerce makes them the neighbors of all the nations
with which they trade. Notwithstanding their apparent isolation, the Americans require a certain
degree of strength, which they cannot retain otherwise than by remaining united to each other.
If the States were to split, they would not only diminish the strength which they are now able
to display towards foreign nations, but they would soon create foreign powers upon their own
territory. A system of inland custom-houses would then be established; the valleys would be
divided by imaginary boundary lines; the courses of the rivers would be confined by territorial
distinctions; and a multitude of hindrances would prevent the Americans from exploring the
whole of that vast continent which Providence has allotted to them for a dominion. At present
they have no invasion to fear, and consequently no standing armies to maintain, no taxes to
levy. If the Union were dissolved, all these burdensome measures might ere long be required.
The Americans are then very powerfully interested in the maintenance of their Union. On the
other hand, it is almost impossible to discover any sort of material interest which might at
present tempt a portion of the Union to separate from the other States.

When we cast our eyes upon the map of the United States, we perceive the chain of the Alleghany
Mountains, running from the northeast to the southwest, and crossing nearly one thousand miles
of country; and we are led to imagine that the design of Providence was to raise between the
valley of the Mississippi and the coast of the Atlantic Ocean one of those natural barriers
which break the mutual intercourse of men, and form the necessary limits of different States.
But the average height of the Alleghanies does not exceed 2,500 feet; their greatest elevation
is not above 4,000 feet; their rounded summits, and the spacious valleys which they conceal
within their passes, are of easy access from several sides. Besides which, the principal rivers
which fall into the Atlantic Ocean--the Hudson, the Susquehanna, and the Potomac--take their
rise beyond the Alleghanies, in an open district, which borders upon the valley of the Mississippi.
These streams quit this tract of country, make their way through the barrier which would seem
to turn them westward, and as they wind through the mountains they open an easy and natural
passage to man. No natural barrier exists in the regions which are now inhabited by the Anglo-Americans;
the Alleghanies are so far from serving as a boundary to separate nations, that they do not
even serve as a frontier to the States. New York, Pennsylvania, and Virginia comprise them
within their borders, and they extend as much to the west as to the east of the line. The territory
now occupied by the twenty-four States of the Union, and the three great districts which have
not yet acquired the rank of States, although they already contain inhabitants, covers a surface
of 1,002,600 square miles, *c which is about equal to five times the extent of France. Within
these limits the qualities of the soil, the temperature, and the produce of the country, are
extremely various. The vast extent of territory occupied by the Anglo-American republics has
given rise to doubts as to the maintenance of their Union. Here a distinction must be made;
contrary interests sometimes arise in the different provinces of a vast empire, which often
terminate in open dissensions; and the extent of the country is then most prejudicial to the
power of the State. But if the inhabitants of these vast regions are not divided by contrary
interests, the extent of the territory may be favorable to their prosperity; for the unity
of the government promotes the interchange of the different productions of the soil, and increases
their value by facilitating their consumption.

[Footnote c: See "Darby's View of the United States," p. 435. [In 1890 the number of States
and Territories had increased to 51, the population to 62,831,900, and the area of the States,
3,602,990 square miles. This does not include the Philippine Islands, Hawaii, or Porto Rico.
A conservative estimate of the population of the Philippine Islands is 8,000,000; that of Hawaii,
by the census of 1897, was given at 109,020; and the present estimated population of Porto
Rico is 900,000. The area of the Philippine Islands is about 120,000 square miles, that of
Hawaii is 6,740 square miles, and the area of Porto Rico is about 3,600 square miles.]]

It is indeed easy to discover different interests in the different parts of the Union, but
I am unacquainted with any which are hostile to each other. The Southern States are almost
exclusively agricultural. The Northern States are more peculiarly commercial and manufacturing.
The States of the West are at the same time agricultural and manufacturing. In the South the
crops consist of tobacco, of rice, of cotton, and of sugar; in the North and the West, of wheat
and maize. These are different sources of wealth; but union is the means by which these sources
are opened to all, and rendered equally advantageous to the several districts.

The North, which ships the produce of the Anglo-Americans to all parts of the world, and brings
back the produce of the globe to the Union, is evidently interested in maintaining the confederation
in its present condition, in order that the number of American producers and consumers may
remain as large as possible. The North is the most natural agent of communication between the
South and the West of the Union on the one hand, and the rest of the world upon the other;
the North is therefore interested in the union and prosperity of the South and the West, in
order that they may continue to furnish raw materials for its manufactures, and cargoes for
its shipping.

The South and the West, on their side, are still more directly interested in the preservation
of the Union, and the prosperity of the North. The produce of the South is, for the most part,
exported beyond seas; the South and the West consequently stand in need of the commercial resources
of the North. They are likewise interested in the maintenance of a powerful fleet by the Union,
to protect them efficaciously. The South and the West have no vessels, but they cannot refuse
a willing subsidy to defray the expenses of the navy; for if the fleets of Europe were to blockade
the ports of the South and the delta of the Mississippi, what would become of the rice of the
Carolinas, the tobacco of Virginia, and the sugar and cotton which grow in the valley of the
Mississippi? Every portion of the federal budget does therefore contribute to the maintenance
of material interests which are common to all the confederate States.

Independently of this commercial utility, the South and the West of the Union derive great
political advantages from their connection with the North. The South contains an enormous slave
population; a population which is already alarming, and still more formidable for the future.
The States of the West lie in the remotest parts of a single valley; and all the rivers which
intersect their territory rise in the Rocky Mountains or in the Alleghanies, and fall into
the Mississippi, which bears them onwards to the Gulf of Mexico. The Western States are consequently
entirely cut off, by their position, from the traditions of Europe and the civilization of
the Old World. The inhabitants of the South, then, are induced to support the Union in order
to avail themselves of its protection against the blacks; and the inhabitants of the West in
order not to be excluded from a free communication with the rest of the globe, and shut up
in the wilds of central America. The North cannot but desire the maintenance of the Union,
in order to remain, as it now is, the connecting link between that vast body and the other
parts of the world.

The temporal interests of all the several parts of the Union are, then, intimately connected;
and the same assertion holds true respecting those opinions and sentiments which may be termed
the immaterial interests of men. Nor do I attach much importance to the language of the Americans,
when they manifest, in their daily conversations, the intention of maintaining the federal
system adopted by their forefathers. A government retains its sway over a great number of citizens,
far less by the voluntary and rational consent of the multitude, than by that instinctive,
and to a certain extent involuntary agreement, which results from similarity of feelings and
resemblances of opinion. I will never admit that men constitute a social body, simply because
they obey the same head and the same laws. Society can only exist when a great number of men
consider a great number of things in the same point of view; when they hold the same opinions
upon many subjects, and when the same occurrences suggest the same thoughts and impressions
to their minds.

The observer who examines the present condition of the United States upon this principle, will
readily discover, that although the citizens are divided into twenty-four distinct sovereignties,
they nevertheless constitute a single people; and he may perhaps be led to think that the state
of the Anglo-American Union is more truly a state of society than that of certain nations of
Europe which live under the same legislation and the same prince.

Although the Anglo-Americans have several religious sects, they all regard religion in the
same manner. They are not always agreed upon the measures which are most conducive to good
government, and they vary upon some of the forms of government which it is expedient to adopt;
but they are unanimous upon the general principles which ought to rule human society. From
Maine to the Floridas, and from the Missouri to the Atlantic Ocean, the people is held to be
the legitimate source of all power. The same notions are entertained respecting liberty and
equality, the liberty of the press, the right of association, the jury, and the responsibility
of the agents of Government.

If we turn from their political and religious opinions to the moral and philosophical principles
which regulate the daily actions of life and govern their conduct, we shall still find the
same uniformity. The Anglo-Americans *d acknowledge the absolute moral authority of the reason
of the community, as they acknowledge the political authority of the mass of citizens; and
they hold that public opinion is the surest arbiter of what is lawful or forbidden, true or
false. The majority of them believe that a man will be led to do what is just and good by following
his own interest rightly understood. They hold that every man is born in possession of the
right of self-government, and that no one has the right of constraining his fellow-creatures
to be happy. They have all a lively faith in the perfectibility of man; they are of opinion
that the effects of the diffusion of knowledge must necessarily be advantageous, and the consequences
of ignorance fatal; they all consider society as a body in a state of improvement, humanity
as a changing scene, in which nothing is, or ought to be, permanent; and they admit that what
appears to them to be good to-day may be superseded by something better-to-morrow. I do not
give all these opinions as true, but I quote them as characteristic of the Americans.

[Footnote d: It is scarcely necessary for me to observe that by the expression Anglo-Americans,
I only mean to designate the great majority of the nation; for a certain number of isolated
individuals are of course to be met with holding very different opinions.]

The Anglo-Americans are not only united together by these common opinions, but they are separated
from all other nations by a common feeling of pride.

The dangers which threaten the American Union do not originate in the diversity of interests
or of opinions, but in the various characters and passions of the Americans. The men who inhabit
the vast territory of the United States are almost all the issue of a common stock; but the
effects of the climate, and more especially of slavery, have gradually introduced very striking
differences between the British settler of the Southern States and the British settler of the
North. In Europe it is generally believed that slavery has rendered the interests of one part
of the Union contrary to those of another part; but I by no means remarked this to be the case:
slavery has not created interests in the South contrary to those of the North, but it has modified
the character and changed the habits of the natives of the South.

I have already explained the influence which slavery has exercised upon the commercial ability
of the Americans in the South; and this same influence equally extends to their manners. The
slave is a servant who never remonstrates, and who submits to everything without complaint.
He may sometimes assassinate, but he never withstands, his master. In the South there are no
families so poor as not to have slaves. The citizen of the Southern States of the Union is
invested with a sort of domestic dictatorship, from his earliest years; the first notion he
acquires in life is that he is born to command, and the first habit which he contracts is that
of being obeyed without resistance. His education tends, then, to give him the character of
a supercilious and a hasty man; irascible, violent, and ardent in his desires, impatient of
obstacles, but easily discouraged if he cannot succeed upon his first attempt.

The American of the Northern States is surrounded by no slaves in his childhood; he is even
unattended by free servants, and is usually obliged to provide for his own wants. No sooner
does he enter the world than the idea of necessity assails him on every side: he soon learns
to know exactly the natural limit of his authority; he never expects to subdue those who withstand
him, by force; and he knows that the surest means of obtaining the support of his fellow-creatures,
is to win their favor. He therefore becomes patient, reflecting, tolerant, slow to act, and
persevering in his designs.

In the Southern States the more immediate wants of life are always supplied; the inhabitants
of those parts are not busied in the material cares of life, which are always provided for
by others; and their imagination is diverted to more captivating and less definite objects.
The American of the South is fond of grandeur, luxury, and renown, of gayety, of pleasure,
and above all of idleness; nothing obliges him to exert himself in order to subsist; and as
he has no necessary occupations, he gives way to indolence, and does not even attempt what
would be useful.

But the equality of fortunes, and the absence of slavery in the North, plunge the inhabitants
in those same cares of daily life which are disdained by the white population of the South.
They are taught from infancy to combat want, and to place comfort above all the pleasures of
the intellect or the heart. The imagination is extinguished by the trivial details of life,
and the ideas become less numerous and less general, but far more practical and more precise.
As prosperity is the sole aim of exertion, it is excellently well attained; nature and mankind
are turned to the best pecuniary advantage, and society is dexterously made to contribute to
the welfare of each of its members, whilst individual egotism is the source of general happiness.

The citizen of the North has not only experience, but knowledge: nevertheless he sets but little
value upon the pleasures of knowledge; he esteems it as the means of attaining a certain end,
and he is only anxious to seize its more lucrative applications. The citizen of the South is
more given to act upon impulse; he is more clever, more frank, more generous, more intellectual,
and more brilliant. The former, with a greater degree of activity, of common-sense, of information,
and of general aptitude, has the characteristic good and evil qualities of the middle classes.
The latter has the tastes, the prejudices, the weaknesses, and the magnanimity of all aristocracies.
If two men are united in society, who have the same interests, and to a certain extent the
same opinions, but different characters, different acquirements, and a different style of civilization,
it is probable that these men will not agree. The same remark is applicable to a society of
nations. Slavery, then, does not attack the American Union directly in its interests, but indirectly
in its manners.

[Footnote e: Census of 1790, 3,929,328; 1830, 12,856,165; 1860, 31,443,321; 1870, 38,555,983;
1890, 62,831,900.]

The States which gave their assent to the federal contract in 1790 were thirteen in number;
the Union now consists of thirty-four members. The population, which amounted to nearly 4,000,000
in 1790, had more than tripled in the space of forty years; and in 1830 it amounted to nearly
13,000,000. *e Changes of such magnitude cannot take place without some danger.

A society of nations, as well as a society of individuals, derives its principal chances of
duration from the wisdom of its members, their individual weakness, and their limited number.
The Americans who quit the coasts of the Atlantic Ocean to plunge into the western wilderness,
are adventurers impatient of restraint, greedy of wealth, and frequently men expelled from
the States in which they were born. When they arrive in the deserts they are unknown to each
other, and they have neither traditions, family feeling, nor the force of example to check
their excesses. The empire of the laws is feeble amongst them; that of morality is still more
powerless. The settlers who are constantly peopling the valley of the Mississippi are, then,
in every respect very inferior to the Americans who inhabit the older parts of the Union. Nevertheless,
they already exercise a great influence in its councils; and they arrive at the government
of the commonwealth before they have learnt to govern themselves. *f

[Footnote f: This indeed is only a temporary danger. I have no doubt that in time society will
assume as much stability and regularity in the West as it has already done upon the coast of
the Atlantic Ocean.]

The greater the individual weakness of each of the contracting parties, the greater are the
chances of the duration of the contract; for their safety is then dependent upon their union.
When, in 1790, the most populous of the American republics did not contain 500,000 inhabitants,
*g each of them felt its own insignificance as an independent people, and this feeling rendered
compliance with the federal authority more easy. But when one of the confederate States reckons,
like the State of New York, 2,000,000 of inhabitants, and covers an extent of territory equal
in surface to a quarter of France, *h it feels its own strength; and although it may continue
to support the Union as advantageous to its prosperity, it no longer regards that body as necessary
to its existence, and as it continues to belong to the federal compact, it soon aims at preponderance
in the federal assemblies. The probable unanimity of the States is diminished as their number
increases. At present the interests of the different parts of the Union are not at variance;
but who is able to foresee the multifarious changes of the future, in a country in which towns
are founded from day to day, and States almost from year to year?

[Footnote g: Pennsylvania contained 431,373 inhabitants in 1790 [and 5,258,014 in 1890.]]

[Footnote h: The area of the State of New York is 49,170 square miles. [See U. S. census report
of 1890.]]

Since the first settlement of the British colonies, the number of inhabitants has about doubled
every twenty-two years. I perceive no causes which are likely to check this progressive increase
of the Anglo-American population for the next hundred years; and before that space of time
has elapsed, I believe that the territories and dependencies of the United States will be covered
by more than 100,000,000 of inhabitants, and divided into forty States. *i I admit that these
100,000,000 of men have no hostile interests. I suppose, on the contrary, that they are all
equally interested in the maintenance of the Union; but I am still of opinion that where there
are 100,000,000 of men, and forty distinct nations, unequally strong, the continuance of the
Federal Government can only be a fortunate accident.

[Footnote i: If the population continues to double every twenty-two years, as it has done for
the last two hundred years, the number of inhabitants in the United States in 1852 will be
twenty millions; in 1874, forty-eight millions; and in 1896, ninety-six millions. This may
still be the case even if the lands on the western slope of the Rocky Mountains should be found
to be unfit for cultivation. The territory which is already occupied can easily contain this
number of inhabitants. One hundred millions of men disseminated over the surface of the twenty-four
States, and the three dependencies, which constitute the Union, would only give 762 inhabitants
to the square league; this would be far below the mean population of France, which is 1,063
to the square league; or of England, which is 1,457; and it would even be below the population
of Switzerland, for that country, notwithstanding its lakes and mountains, contains 783 inhabitants
to the square league. See "Malte Brun," vol. vi. p. 92.

[The actual result has fallen somewhat short of these calculations, in spite of the vast territorial
acquisitions of the United States: but in 1899 the population is probably about eighty-seven
millions, including the population of the Philippines, Hawaii, and Porto Rico.]]

Whatever faith I may have in the perfectibility of man, until human nature is altered, and
men wholly transformed, I shall refuse to believe in the duration of a government which is
called upon to hold together forty different peoples, disseminated over a territory equal to
one-half of Europe in extent; to avoid all rivalry, ambition, and struggles between them, and
to direct their independent activity to the accomplishment of the same designs.

But the greatest peril to which the Union is exposed by its increase arises from the continual
changes which take place in the position of its internal strength. The distance from Lake Superior
to the Gulf of Mexico extends from the 47th to the 30th degree of latitude, a distance of more
than 1,200 miles as the bird flies. The frontier of the United States winds along the whole
of this immense line, sometimes falling within its limits, but more frequently extending far
beyond it, into the waste. It has been calculated that the whites advance every year a mean
distance of seventeen miles along the whole of his vast boundary. *j Obstacles, such as an
unproductive district, a lake or an Indian nation unexpectedly encountered, are sometimes met
with. The advancing column then halts for a while; its two extremities fall back upon themselves,
and as soon as they are reunited they proceed onwards.

[Footnote j: See Legislative Documents, 20th Congress, No. 117, p. 105.]

Within this first line of conquering settlers towns are built, and vast States founded. In
1790 there were only a few thousand pioneers sprinkled along the valleys of the Mississippi;
and at the present day these valleys contain as many inhabitants as were to be found in the
whole Union in 1790. Their population amounts to nearly 4,000,000. *k The city of Washington
was founded in 1800, in the very centre of the Union; but such are the changes which have taken
place, that it now stands at one of the extremities; and the delegates of the most remote Western
States are already obliged to perform a journey as long as that from Vienna to Paris. *l

[Footnote k: 3,672,317--Census of 1830.]

[Footnote l: The distance from Jefferson, the capital of the State of Missouri, to Washington
is 1,019 miles. ("American Almanac," 1831, p. 48.)]

All the States are borne onwards at the same time in the path of fortune, but of course they
do not all increase and prosper in the same proportion. To the North of the Union the detached
branches of the Alleghany chain, which extend as far as the Atlantic Ocean, form spacious roads
and ports, which are constantly accessible to vessels of the greatest burden. But from the
Potomac to the mouth of the Mississippi the coast is sandy and flat. In this part of the Union
the mouths of almost all the rivers are obstructed; and the few harbors which exist amongst
these lagoons afford much shallower water to vessels, and much fewer commercial advantages
than those of the North.

This first natural cause of inferiority is united to another cause proceeding from the laws.
We have already seen that slavery, which is abolished in the North, still exists in the South;
and I have pointed out its fatal consequences upon the prosperity of the planter himself.

The North is therefore superior to the South both in commerce *m and manufacture; the natural
consequence of which is the more rapid increase of population and of wealth within its borders.
The States situate upon the shores of the Atlantic Ocean are already half-peopled. Most of
the land is held by an owner; and these districts cannot therefore receive so many emigrants
as the Western States, where a boundless field is still open to their exertions. The valley
of the Mississippi is far more fertile than the coast of the Atlantic Ocean. This reason, added
to all the others, contributes to drive the Europeans westward--a fact which may be rigorously
demonstrated by figures. It is found that the sum total of the population of all the United
States has about tripled in the course of forty years. But in the recent States adjacent to
the Mississippi, the population has increased thirty-one-fold, within the same space of time. *n

[Footnote m: The following statements will suffice to show the difference which exists between
the commerce of the South and that of the North:--

In 1829 the tonnage of all the merchant vessels belonging to Virginia, the two Carolinas, and
Georgia (the four great Southern States), amounted to only 5,243 tons. In the same year the
tonnage of the vessels of the State of Massachusetts alone amounted to 17,322 tons. (See Legislative
Documents, 21st Congress, 2d session, No. 140, p. 244.) Thus the State of Massachusetts had
three times as much shipping as the four above-mentioned States. Nevertheless the area of the
State of Massachusetts is only 7,335 square miles, and its population amounts to 610,014 inhabitants
[2,238,943 in 1890]; whilst the area of the four other States I have quoted is 210,000 square
miles, and their population 3,047,767. Thus the area of the State of Massachusetts forms only
one-thirtieth part of the area of the four States; and its population is five times smaller
than theirs. (See "Darby's View of the United States.") Slavery is prejudicial to the commercial
prosperity of the South in several different ways; by diminishing the spirit of enterprise
amongst the whites, and by preventing them from meeting with as numerous a class of sailors
as they require. Sailors are usually taken from the lowest ranks of the population. But in
the Southern States these lowest ranks are composed of slaves, and it is very difficult to
employ them at sea. They are unable to serve as well as a white crew, and apprehensions would
always be entertained of their mutinying in the middle of the ocean, or of their escaping in
the foreign countries at which they might touch.]

[Footnote n: "Darby's View of the United States," p. 444.]

The relative position of the central federal power is continually displaced. Forty years ago
the majority of the citizens of the Union was established upon the coast of the Atlantic, in
the environs of the spot upon which Washington now stands; but the great body of the people
is now advancing inland and to the north, so that in twenty years the majority will unquestionably
be on the western side of the Alleghanies. If the Union goes on to subsist, the basin of the
Mississippi is evidently marked out, by its fertility and its extent, as the future centre
of the Federal Government. In thirty or forty years, that tract of country will have assumed
the rank which naturally belongs to it. It is easy to calculate that its population, compared
to that of the coast of the Atlantic, will be, in round numbers, as 40 to 11. In a few years
the States which founded the Union will lose the direction of its policy, and the population
of the valley of the Mississippi will preponderate in the federal assemblies.

This constant gravitation of the federal power and influence towards the northwest is shown
every ten years, when a general census of the population is made, and the number of delegates
which each State sends to Congress is settled afresh. *o In 1790 Virginia had nineteen representatives
in Congress. This number continued to increase until the year 1813, when it reached to twenty-three;
from that time it began to decrease, and in 1833 Virginia elected only twenty-one representatives.
*p During the same period the State of New York progressed in the contrary direction: in 1790
it had ten representatives in Congress; in 1813, twenty-seven; in 1823, thirty-four; and in
1833, forty. The State of Ohio had only one representative in 1803, and in 1833 it had already
nineteen.

[Footnote o: It may be seen that in the course of the last ten years (1820-1830) the population
of one district, as, for instance, the State of Delaware, has increased in the proportion of
five per cent.; whilst that of another, as the territory of Michigan, has increased 250 per
cent. Thus the population of Virginia had augmented thirteen per cent., and that of the border
State of Ohio sixty-one per cent., in the same space of time. The general table of these changes,
which is given in the "National Calendar," displays a striking picture of the unequal fortunes
of the different States.]

[Footnote p: It has just been said that in the course of the last term the population of Virginia
has increased thirteen per cent.; and it is necessary to explain how the number of representatives
for a State may decrease, when the population of that State, far from diminishing, is actually
upon the increase. I take the State of Virginia, to which I have already alluded, as my term
of comparison. The number of representatives of Virginia in 1823 was proportionate to the total
number of the representatives of the Union, and to the relation which the population bore to
that of the whole Union: in 1833 the number of representatives of Virginia was likewise proportionate
to the total number of the representatives of the Union, and to the relation which its population,
augmented in the course of ten years, bore to the augmented population of the Union in the
same space of time. The new number of Virginian representatives will then be to the old numver,
on the one hand, as the new numver of all the representatives is to the old number; and, on
the other hand, as the augmentation of the population of Virginia is to that of the whole population
of the country. Thus, if the increase of the population of the lesser country be to that of
the greater in an exact inverse ratio of the proportion between the new and the old numbers
of all the representatives, the number of the representatives of Virginia will remain stationary;
and if the increase of the Virginian population be to that of the whole Union in a feeblerratio
than the new number of the representatives of the Union to the old number, the number of the
representatives of Virginia must decrease. [Thus, to the 56th Congress in 1899, Virginia and
West Virginia send only fourteen representatives.]]

Chapter XVIII: Future Condition Of Three Races--Part VIII

It is difficult to imagine a durable union of a people which is rich and strong with one which
is poor and weak, even if it were proved that the strength and wealth of the one are not the
causes of the weakness and poverty of the other. But union is still more difficult to maintain
at a time at which one party is losing strength, and the other is gaining it. This rapid and
disproportionate increase of certain States threatens the independence of the others. New York
might perhaps succeed, with its 2,000,000 of inhabitants and its forty representatives, in
dictating to the other States in Congress. But even if the more powerful States make no attempt
to bear down the lesser ones, the danger still exists; for there is almost as much in the possibility
of the act as in the act itself. The weak generally mistrust the justice and the reason of
the strong. The States which increase less rapidly than the others look upon those which are
more favored by fortune with envy and suspicion. Hence arise the deep-seated uneasiness and
ill-defined agitation which are observable in the South, and which form so striking a contrast
to the confidence and prosperity which are common to other parts of the Union. I am inclined
to think that the hostile measures taken by the Southern provinces upon a recent occasion are
attributable to no other cause. The inhabitants of the Southern States are, of all the Americans,
those who are most interested in the maintenance of the Union; they would assuredly suffer
most from being left to themselves; and yet they are the only citizens who threaten to break
the tie of confederation. But it is easy to perceive that the South, which has given four Presidents,
Washington, Jefferson, Madison, and Monroe, to the Union, which perceives that it is losing
its federal influence, and that the number of its representatives in Congress is diminishing
from year to year, whilst those of the Northern and Western States are increasing; the South,
which is peopled with ardent and irascible beings, is becoming more and more irritated and
alarmed. The citizens reflect upon their present position and remember their past influence,
with the melancholy uneasiness of men who suspect oppression: if they discover a law of the
Union which is not unequivocally favorable to their interests, they protest against it as an
abuse of force; and if their ardent remonstrances are not listened to, they threaten to quit
an association which loads them with burdens whilst it deprives them of their due profits.
"The tariff," said the inhabitants of Carolina in 1832, "enriches the North, and ruins the
South; for if this were not the case, to what can we attribute the continually increasing power
and wealth of the North, with its inclement skies and arid soil; whilst the South, which may
be styled the garden of America, is rapidly declining?" *q

[Footnote q: See the report of its committee to the Convention which proclaimed the nullification
of the tariff in South Carolina.]

If the changes which I have described were gradual, so that each generation at least might
have time to disappear with the order of things under which it had lived, the danger would
be less; but the progress of society in America is precipitate, and almost revolutionary. The
same citizen may have lived to see his State take the lead in the Union, and afterwards become
powerless in the federal assemblies; and an Anglo-American republic has been known to grow
as rapidly as a man passing from birth and infancy to maturity in the course of thirty years.
It must not be imagined, however, that the States which lose their preponderance, also lose
their population or their riches: no stop is put to their prosperity, and they even go on to
increase more rapidly than any kingdom in Europe. *r But they believe themselves to be impoverished
because their wealth does not augment as rapidly as that of their neighbors; any they think
that their power is lost, because they suddenly come into collision with a power greater than
their own: *s thus they are more hurt in their feelings and their passions than in their interests.
But this is amply sufficient to endanger the maintenance of the Union. If kings and peoples
had only had their true interests in view ever since the beginning of the world, the name of
war would scarcely be known among mankind.

[Footnote r: The population of a country assuredly constitutes the first element of its wealth.
In the ten years (1820-1830) during which Virginia lost two of its representatives in Congress,
its population increased in the proportion of 13.7 per cent.; that of Carolina in the proportion
of fifteen per cent.; and that of Georgia, 15.5 per cent. (See the "American Almanac," 1832,
p. 162) But the population of Russia, which increases more rapidly than that of any other European
country, only augments in ten years at the rate of 9.5 per cent.; in France, at the rate of
seven per cent.; and in Europe in general, at the rate of 4.7 per cent. (See "Malte Brun,"
vol. vi. p. 95)]

[Footnote s: It must be admitted, however, that the depreciation which has taken place in the
value of tobacco, during the last fifty years, has notably diminished the opulence of the Southern
planters: but this circumstance is as independent of the will of their Northern brethren as
it is of their own.]

Thus the prosperity of the United States is the source of the most serious dangers that threaten
them, since it tends to create in some of the confederate States that over-excitement which
accompanies a rapid increase of fortune; and to awaken in others those feelings of envy, mistrust,
and regret which usually attend upon the loss of it. The Americans contemplate this extraordinary
and hasty progress with exultation; but they would be wiser to consider it with sorrow and
alarm. The Americans of the United States must inevitably become one of the greatest nations
in the world; their offset will cover almost the whole of North America; the continent which
they inhabit is their dominion, and it cannot escape them. What urges them to take possession
of it so soon? Riches, power, and renown cannot fail to be theirs at some future time, but
they rush upon their fortune as if but a moment remained for them to make it their own.

I think that I have demonstrated that the existence of the present confederation depends entirely
on the continued assent of all the confederates; and, starting from this principle, I have
inquired into the causes which may induce the several States to separate from the others. The
Union may, however, perish in two different ways: one of the confederate States may choose
to retire from the compact, and so forcibly to sever the federal tie; and it is to this supposition
that most of the remarks that I have made apply: or the authority of the Federal Government
may be progressively entrenched on by the simultaneous tendency of the united republics to
resume their independence. The central power, successively stripped of all its prerogatives,
and reduced to impotence by tacit consent, would become incompetent to fulfil its purpose;
and the second Union would perish, like the first, by a sort of senile inaptitude. The gradual
weakening of the federal tie, which may finally lead to the dissolution of the Union, is a
distinct circumstance, that may produce a variety of minor consequences before it operates
so violent a change. The confederation might still subsist, although its Government were reduced
to such a degree of inanition as to paralyze the nation, to cause internal anarchy, and to
check the general prosperity of the country.

After having investigated the causes which may induce the Anglo-Americans to disunite, it is
important to inquire whether, if the Union continues to subsist, their Government will extend
or contract its sphere of action, and whether it will become more energetic or more weak.

The Americans are evidently disposed to look upon their future condition with alarm. They perceive
that in most of the nations of the world the exercise of the rights of sovereignty tends to
fall under the control of a few individuals, and they are dismayed by the idea that such will
also be the case in their own country. Even the statesmen feel, or affect to feel, these fears;
for, in America, centralization is by no means popular, and there is no surer means of courting
the majority than by inveighing against the encroachments of the central power. The Americans
do not perceive that the countries in which this alarming tendency to centralization exists
are inhabited by a single people; whilst the fact of the Union being composed of different
confederate communities is sufficient to baffle all the inferences which might be drawn from
analogous circumstances. I confess that I am inclined to consider the fears of a great number
of Americans as purely imaginary; and far from participating in their dread of the consolidation
of power in the hands of the Union, I think that the Federal Government is visibly losing strength.

To prove this assertion I shall not have recourse to any remote occurrences, but to circumstances
which I have myself witnessed, and which belong to our own time.

An attentive examination of what is going on in the United States will easily convince us that
two opposite tendencies exist in that country, like two distinct currents flowing in contrary
directions in the same channel. The Union has now existed for forty-five years, and in the
course of that time a vast number of provincial prejudices, which were at first hostile to
its power, have died away. The patriotic feeling which attached each of the Americans to his
own native State is become less exclusive; and the different parts of the Union have become
more intimately connected the better they have become acquainted with each other. The post,
*t that great instrument of intellectual intercourse, now reaches into the backwoods; and steamboats
have established daily means of communication between the different points of the coast. An
inland navigation of unexampled rapidity conveys commodities up and down the rivers of the
country. *u And to these facilities of nature and art may be added those restless cravings,
that busy-mindedness, and love of pelf, which are constantly urging the American into active
life, and bringing him into contact with his fellow-citizens. He crosses the country in every
direction; he visits all the various populations of the land; and there is not a province in
France in which the natives are so well known to each other as the 13,000,000 of men who cover
the territory of the United States.

[Footnote t: In 1832, the district of Michigan, which only contains 31,639 inhabitants, and
is still an almost unexplored wilderness, possessed 940 miles of mail-roads. The territory
of Arkansas, which is still more uncultivated, was already intersected by 1,938 miles of mail-roads.
(See the report of the General Post Office, November 30, 1833.) The postage of newspapers alone
in the whole Union amounted to $254,796.]

[Footnote u: In the course of ten years, from 1821 to 1831, 271 steamboats have been launched
upon the rivers which water the valley of the Mississippi alone. In 1829 259 steamboats existed
in the United States. (See Legislative Documents, No. 140, p. 274.)]

But whilst the Americans intermingle, they grow in resemblance of each other; the differences
resulting from their climate, their origin, and their institutions, diminish; and they all
draw nearer and nearer to the common type. Every year, thousands of men leave the North to
settle in different parts of the Union: they bring with them their faith, their opinions, and
their manners; and as they are more enlighthned than the men amongst whom they are about to
dwell, they soon rise to the head of affairs, and they adapt society to their own advantage.
This continual emigration of the North to the South is peculiarly favorable to the fusion of
all the different provincial characters into one national character. The civilization of the
North appears to be the common standard, to which the whole nation will one day be assimilated.

The commercial ties which unite the confederate States are strengthened by the increasing manufactures
of the Americans; and the union which began to exist in their opinions, gradually forms a part
of their habits: the course of time has swept away the bugbear thoughts which haunted the imaginations
of the citizens in 1789. The federal power is not become oppressive; it has not destroyed the
independence of the States; it has not subjected the confederates to monarchial institutions;
and the Union has not rendered the lesser States dependent upon the larger ones; but the confederation
has continued to increase in population, in wealth, and in power. I am therefore convinced
that the natural obstacles to the continuance of the American Union are not so powerful at
the present time as they were in 1789; and that the enemies of the Union are not so numerous.

Nevertheless, a careful examination of the history of the United States for the last forty-five
years will readily convince us that the federal power is declining; nor is it difficult to
explain the causes of this phenomenon. *v When the Constitution of 1789 was promulgated, the
nation was a prey to anarchy; the Union, which succeeded this confusion, excited much dread
and much animosity; but it was warmly supported because it satisfied an imperious want. Thus,
although it was more attacked than it is now, the federal power soon reached the maximum of
its authority, as is usually the case with a government which triumphs after having braced
its strength by the struggle. At that time the interpretation of the Constitution seemed to
extend, rather than to repress, the federal sovereignty; and the Union offered, in several
respects, the appearance of a single and undivided people, directed in its foreign and internal
policy by a single Government. But to attain this point the people had risen, to a certain
extent, above itself.

[Footnote v: [Since 1861 the movement is certainly in the opposite direction, and the federal
power has largely increased, and tends to further increase.]]

The Constitution had not destroyed the distinct sovereignty of the States; and all communities,
of whatever nature they may be, are impelled by a secret propensity to assert their independence.
This propensity is still more decided in a country like America, in which every village forms
a sort of republic accustomed to conduct its own affairs. It therefore cost the States an effort
to submit to the federal supremacy; and all efforts, however successful they may be, necessarily
subside with the causes in which they originated.

As the Federal Government consolidated its authority, America resumed its rank amongst the
nations, peace returned to its frontiers, and public credit was restored; confusion was succeeded
by a fixed state of things, which was favorable to the full and free exercise of industrious
enterprise. It was this very prosperity which made the Americans forget the cause to which
it was attributable; and when once the danger was passed, the energy and the patriotism which
had enabled them to brave it disappeared from amongst them. No sooner were they delivered from
the cares which oppressed them, than they easily returned to their ordinary habits, and gave
themselves up without resistance to their natural inclinations. When a powerful Government
no longer appeared to be necessary, they once more began to think it irksome. The Union encouraged
a general prosperity, and the States were not inclined to abandon the Union; but they desired
to render the action of the power which represented that body as light as possible. The general
principle of Union was adopted, but in every minor detail there was an actual tendency to independence.
The principle of confederation was every day more easily admitted, and more rarely applied;
so that the Federal Government brought about its own decline, whilst it was creating order
and peace.

As soon as this tendency of public opinion began to be manifested externally, the leaders of
parties, who live by the passions of the people, began to work it to their own advantage. The
position of the Federal Government then became exceedingly critical. Its enemies were in possession
of the popular favor; and they obtained the right of conducting its policy by pledging themselves
to lessen its influence. From that time forwards the Government of the Union has invariably
been obliged to recede, as often as it has attempted to enter the lists with the governments
of the States. And whenever an interpretation of the terms of the Federal Constitution has
been called for, that interpretation has most frequently been opposed to the Union, and favorable
to the States.

The Constitution invested the Federal Government with the right of providing for the interests
of the nation; and it had been held that no other authority was so fit to superintend the "internal
improvements" which affected the prosperity of the whole Union; such, for instance, as the
cutting of canals. But the States were alarmed at a power, distinct from their own, which could
thus dispose of a portion of their territory; and they were afraid that the central Government
would, by this means, acquire a formidable extent of patronage within their own confines, and
exercise a degree of influence which they intended to reserve exclusively to their own agents.
The Democratic party, which has constantly been opposed to the increase of the federal authority,
then accused the Congress of usurpation, and the Chief Magistrate of ambition. The central
Government was intimidated by the opposition; and it soon acknowledged its error, promising
exactly to confine its influence for the future within the circle which was prescribed to it.

The Constitution confers upon the Union the right of treating with foreign nations. The Indian
tribes, which border upon the frontiers of the United States, had usually been regarded in
this light. As long as these savages consented to retire before the civilized settlers, the
federal right was not contested: but as soon as an Indian tribe attempted to fix its dwelling
upon a given spot, the adjacent States claimed possession of the lands and the rights of sovereignty
over the natives. The central Government soon recognized both these claims; and after it had
concluded treaties with the Indians as independent nations, it gave them up as subjects to
the legislative tyranny of the States. *w

[Footnote w: See in the Legislative Documents, already quoted in speaking of the Indians, the
letter of the President of the United States to the Cherokees, his correspondence on this subject
with his agents, and his messages to Congress.]

Some of the States which had been founded upon the coast of the Atlantic, extended indefinitely
to the West, into wild regions where no European had ever penetrated. The States whose confines
were irrevocably fixed, looked with a jealous eye upon the unbounded regions which the future
would enable their neighbors to explore. The latter then agreed, with a view to conciliate
the others, and to facilitate the act of union, to lay down their own boundaries, and to abandon
all the territory which lay beyond those limits to the confederation at large. *x Thenceforward
the Federal Government became the owner of all the uncultivated lands which lie beyond the
borders of the thirteen States first confederated. It was invested with the right of parcelling
and selling them, and the sums derived from this source were exclusively reserved to the public
treasure of the Union, in order to furnish supplies for purchasing tracts of country from the
Indians, for opening roads to the remote settlements, and for accelerating the increase of
civilization as much as possible. New States have, however, been formed in the course of time,
in the midst of those wilds which were formerly ceded by the inhabitants of the shores of the
Atlantic. Congress has gone on to sell, for the profit of the nation at large, the uncultivated
lands which those new States contained. But the latter at length asserted that, as they were
now fully constituted, they ought to enjoy the exclusive right of converting the produce of
these sales to their own use. As their remonstrances became more and more threatening, Congress
thought fit to deprive the Union of a portion of the privileges which it had hitherto enjoyed;
and at the end of 1832 it passed a law by which the greatest part of the revenue derived from
the sale of lands was made over to the new western republics, although the lands themselves
were not ceded to them. *y

[Footnote x: The first act of session was made by the State of New York in 1780; Virginia,
Massachusetts, Connecticut, South and North Carolina, followed this example at different times,
and lastly, the act of cession of Georgia was made as recently as 1802.]

[Footnote y: It is true that the President refused his assent to this law; but he completely
adopted it in principle. (See Message of December 8, 1833.)]

The slightest observation in the United States enables one to appreciate the advantages which
the country derives from the bank. These advantages are of several kinds, but one of them is
peculiarly striking to the stranger. The banknotes of the United States are taken upon the
borders of the desert for the same value as at Philadelphia, where the bank conducts its operations.
*z

[Footnote z: The present Bank of the United States was established in 1816, with a capital
of $35,000,000; its charter expires in 1836. Last year Congress passed a law to renew it, but
the President put his veto upon the bill. The struggle is still going on with great violence
on either side, and the speedy fall of the bank may easily be foreseen. [It was soon afterwards
extinguished by General Jackson.]]

The Bank of the United States is nevertheless the object of great animosity. Its directors
have proclaimed their hostility to the President: and they are accused, not without some show
of probability, of having abused their influence to thwart his election. The President therefore
attacks the establishment which they represent with all the warmth of personal enmity; and
he is encouraged in the pursuit of his revenge by the conviction that he is supported by the
secret propensities of the majority. The bank may be regarded as the great monetary tie of
the Union, just as Congress is the great legislative tie; and the same passions which tend
to render the States independent of the central power, contribute to the overthrow of the bank.

The Bank of the United States always holds a great number of the notes issued by the provincial
banks, which it can at any time oblige them to convert into cash. It has itself nothing to
fear from a similar demand, as the extent of its resources enables it to meet all claims. But
the existence of the provincial banks is thus threatened, and their operations are restricted,
since they are only able to issue a quantity of notes duly proportioned to their capital. They
submit with impatience to this salutary control. The newspapers which they have bought over,
and the President, whose interest renders him their instrument, attack the bank with the greatest
vehemence. They rouse the local passions and the blind democratic instinct of the country to
aid their cause; and they assert that the bank directors form a permanent aristocratic body,
whose influence must ultimately be felt in the Government, and must affect those principles
of equality upon which society rests in America.

The contest between the bank and its opponents is only an incident in the great struggle which
is going on in America between the provinces and the central power; between the spirit of democratic
independence and the spirit of gradation and subordination. I do not mean that the enemies
of the bank are identically the same individuals who, on other points, attack the Federal Government;
but I assert that the attacks directed against the bank of the United States originate in the
same propensities which militate against the Federal Government; and that the very numerous
opponents of the former afford a deplorable symptom of the decreasing support of the latter.

The Union has never displayed so much weakness as in the celebrated question of the tariff.
*a The wars of the French Revolution and of 1812 had created manufacturing establishments in
the North of the Union, by cutting off all free communication between America and Europe. When
peace was concluded, and the channel of intercourse reopened by which the produce of Europe
was transmitted to the New World, the Americans thought fit to establish a system of import
duties, for the twofold purpose of protecting their incipient manufactures and of paying off
the amount of the debt contracted during the war. The Southern States, which have no manufactures
to encourage, and which are exclusively agricultural, soon complained of this measure. Such
were the simple facts, and I do not pretend to examine in this place whether their complaints
were well founded or unjust.

[Footnote a: See principally for the details of this affair, the Legislative Documents, 22d
Congress, 2d Session, No. 30.]

As early as the year 1820, South Carolina declared, in a petition to Congress, that the tariff
was "unconstitutional, oppressive, and unjust." And the States of Georgia, Virginia, North
Carolina, Alabama, and Mississippi subsequently remonstrated against it with more or less vigor.
But Congress, far from lending an ear to these complaints, raised the scale of tariff duties
in the years 1824 and 1828, and recognized anew the principle on which it was founded. A doctrine
was then proclaimed, or rather revived, in the South, which took the name of Nullification.

I have shown in the proper place that the object of the Federal Constitution was not to form
a league, but to create a national government. The Americans of the United States form a sole
and undivided people, in all the cases which are specified by that Constitution; and upon these
points the will of the nation is expressed, as it is in all constitutional nations, by the
voice of the majority. When the majority has pronounced its decision, it is the duty of the
minority to submit. Such is the sound legal doctrine, and the only one which agrees with the
text of the Constitution, and the known intention of those who framed it.

The partisans of Nullification in the South maintain, on the contrary, that the intention of
the Americans in uniting was not to reduce themselves to the condition of one and the same
people; that they meant to constitute a league of independent States; and that each State,
consequently retains its entire sovereignty, if not de facto, at least de jure; and has the
right of putting its own construction upon the laws of Congress, and of suspending their execution
within the limits of its own territory, if they are held to be unconstitutional and unjust.

The entire doctrine of Nullification is comprised in a sentence uttered by Vice-President Calhoun,
the head of that party in the South, before the Senate of the United States, in the year 1833:
could: "The Constitution is a compact to which the States were parties in their sovereign capacity;
now, whenever a compact is entered into by parties which acknowledge no tribunal above their
authority to decide in the last resort, each of them has a right to judge for itself in relation
to the nature, extent, and obligations of the instrument." It is evident that a similar doctrine
destroys the very basis of the Federal Constitution, and brings back all the evils of the old
confederation, from which the Americans were supposed to have had a safe deliverance.

When South Carolina perceived that Congress turned a deaf ear to its remonstrances, it threatened
to apply the doctrine of nullification to the federal tariff bill. Congress persisted in its
former system; and at length the storm broke out. In the course of 1832 the citizens of South
Carolina, *b named a national Convention, to consult upon the extraordinary measures which
they were called upon to take; and on November 24th of the same year this Convention promulgated
a law, under the form of a decree, which annulled the federal law of the tariff, forbade the
levy of the imposts which that law commands, and refused to recognize the appeal which might
be made to the federal courts of law. *c This decree was only to be put in execution in the
ensuing month of February, and it was intimated, that if Congress modified the tariff before
that period, South Carolina might be induced to proceed no further with her menaces; and a
vague desire was afterwards expressed of submitting the question to an extraordinary assembly
of all the confederate States.

[Footnote b: That is to say, the majority of the people; for the opposite party, called the
Union party, always formed a very strong and active minority. Carolina may contain about 47,000
electors; 30,000 were in favor of nullification, and 17,000 opposed to it.]

[Footnote c: This decree was preceded by a report of the committee by which it was framed,
containing the explanation of the motives and object of the law. The following passage occurs
in it, p. 34:--"When the rights reserved by the Constitution to the different States are deliberately
violated, it is the duty and the right of those States to interfere, in order to check the
progress of the evil; to resist usurpation, and to maintain, within their respective limits,
those powers and privileges which belong to them as independent sovereign States. If they were
destitute of this right, they would not be sovereign. South Carolina declares that she acknowledges
no tribunal upon earth above her authority. She has indeed entered into a solemn compact of
union with the other States; but she demands, and will exercise, the right of putting her own
construction upon it; and when this compact is violated by her sister States, and by the Government
which they have created, she is determined to avail herself of the unquestionable right of
judging what is the extent of the infraction, and what are the measures best fitted to obtain
justice."]

Chapter XVIII: Future Condition Of Three Races--Part IX

In the meantime South Carolina armed her militia, and prepared for war. But Congress, which
had slighted its suppliant subjects, listened to their complaints as soon as they were found
to have taken up arms. *d A law was passed, by which the tariff duties were to be progressively
reduced for ten years, until they were brought so low as not to exceed the amount of supplies
necessary to the Government. *e Thus Congress completely abandoned the principle of the tariff;
and substituted a mere fiscal impost to a system of protective duties. *f The Government of
the Union, in order to conceal its defeat, had recourse to an expedient which is very much
in vogue with feeble governments. It yielded the point de facto, but it remained inflexible
upon the principles in question; and whilst Congress was altering the tariff law, it passed
another bill, by which the President was invested with extraordinary powers, enabling him to
overcome by force a resistance which was then no longer to be apprehended.

[Footnote d: Congress was finally decided to take this step by the conduct of the powerful
State of Virginia, whose legislature offered to serve as mediator between the Union and South
Carolina. Hitherto the latter State had appeared to be entirely abandoned, even by the States
which had joined in her remonstrances.]

[Footnote e: This law was passed on March 2, 1833.]

[Footnote f: This bill was brought in by Mr. Clay, and it passed in four days through both
Houses of Congress by an immense majority.]

But South Carolina did not consent to leave the Union in the enjoyment of these scanty trophies
of success: the same national Convention which had annulled the tariff bill, met again, and
accepted the proffered concession; but at the same time it declared it unabated perseverance
in the doctrine of Nullification: and to prove what it said, it annulled the law investing
the President with extraordinary powers, although it was very certain that the clauses of that
law would never be carried into effect.

Almost all the controversies of which I have been speaking have taken place under the Presidency
of General Jackson; and it cannot be denied that in the question of the tariff he has supported
the claims of the Union with vigor and with skill. I am, however, of opinion that the conduct
of the individual who now represents the Federal Government may be reckoned as one of the dangers
which threaten its continuance.

Some persons in Europe have formed an opinion of the possible influence of General Jackson
upon the affairs of his country, which appears highly extravagant to those who have seen more
of the subject. We have been told that General Jackson has won sundry battles, that he is an
energetic man, prone by nature and by habit to the use of force, covetous of power, and a despot
by taste. All this may perhaps be true; but the inferences which have been drawn from these
truths are exceedingly erroneous. It has been imagined that General Jackson is bent on establishing
a dictatorship in America, on introducing a military spirit, and on giving a degree of influence
to the central authority which cannot but be dangerous to provincial liberties. But in America
the time for similar undertakings, and the age for men of this kind, is not yet come: if General
Jackson had entertained a hope of exercising his authority in this manner, he would infallibly
have forfeited his political station, and compromised his life; accordingly he has not been
so imprudent as to make any such attempt.

Far from wishing to extend the federal power, the President belongs to the party which is desirous
of limiting that power to the bare and precise letter of the Constitution, and which never
puts a construction upon that act favorable to the Government of the Union; far from standing
forth as the champion of centralization, General Jackson is the agent of all the jealousies
of the States; and he was placed in the lofty station he occupies by the passions of the people
which are most opposed to the central Government. It is by perpetually flattering these passions
that he maintains his station and his popularity. General Jackson is the slave of the majority:
he yields to its wishes, its propensities, and its demands; say rather, that he anticipates
and forestalls them.

Whenever the governments of the States come into collision with that of the Union, the President
is generally the first to question his own rights: he almost always outstrips the legislature;
and when the extent of the federal power is controverted, he takes part, as it were, against
himself; he conceals his official interests, and extinguishes his own natural inclinations.
Not indeed that he is naturally weak or hostile to the Union; for when the majority decided
against the claims of the partisans of nullification, he put himself at its head, asserted
the doctrines which the nation held distinctly and energetically, and was the first to recommend
forcible measures; but General Jackson appears to me, if I may use the American expressions,
to be a Federalist by taste, and a Republican by calculation.

General Jackson stoops to gain the favor of the majority, but when he feels that his popularity
is secure, he overthrows all obstacles in the pursuit of the objects which the community approves,
or of those which it does not look upon with a jealous eye. He is supported by a power with
which his predecessors were unacquainted; and he tramples on his personal enemies whenever
they cross his path with a facility which no former President ever enjoyed; he takes upon himself
the responsibility of measures which no one before him would have ventured to attempt: he even
treats the national representatives with disdain approaching to insult; he puts his veto upon
the laws of Congress, and frequently neglects to reply to that powerful body. He is a favorite
who sometimes treats his master roughly. The power of General Jackson perpetually increases;
but that of the President declines; in his hands the Federal Government is strong, but it will
pass enfeebled into the hands of his successor.

I am strangely mistaken if the Federal Government of the United States be not constantly losing
strength, retiring gradually from public affairs, and narrowing its circle of action more and
more. It is naturally feeble, but it now abandons even its pretensions to strength. On the
other hand, I thought that I remarked a more lively sense of independence, and a more decided
attachment to provincial government in the States. The Union is to subsist, but to subsist
as a shadow; it is to be strong in certain cases, and weak in all others; in time of warfare,
it is to be able to concentrate all the forces of the nation and all the resources of the country
in its hands; and in time of peace its existence is to be scarcely perceptible: as if this
alternate debility and vigor were natural or possible.

I do not foresee anything for the present which may be able to check this general impulse of
public opinion; the causes in which it originated do not cease to operate with the same effect.
The change will therefore go on, and it may be predicted that, unless some extraordinary event
occurs, the Government of the Union will grow weaker and weaker every day.

I think, however, that the period is still remote at which the federal power will be entirely
extinguished by its inability to protect itself and to maintain peace in the country. The Union
is sanctioned by the manners and desires of the people; its results are palpable, its benefits
visible. When it is perceived that the weakness of the Federal Government compromises the existence
of the Union, I do not doubt that a reaction will take place with a view to increase its strength.

The Government of the United States is, of all the federal governments which have hitherto
been established, the one which is most naturally destined to act. As long as it is only indirectly
assailed by the interpretation of its laws, and as long as its substance is not seriously altered,
a change of opinion, an internal crisis, or a war, may restore all the vigor which it requires.
The point which I have been most anxious to put in a clear light is simply this: Many people,
especially in France, imagine that a change in opinion is going on in the United States, which
is favorable to a centralization of power in the hands of the President and the Congress. I
hold that a contrary tendency may distinctly be observed. So far is the Federal Government
from acquiring strength, and from threatening the sovereignty of the States, as it grows older,
that I maintain it to be growing weaker and weaker, and that the sovereignty of the Union alone
is in danger. Such are the facts which the present time discloses. The future conceals the
final result of this tendency, and the events which may check, retard, or accelerate the changes
I have described; but I do not affect to be able to remove the veil which hides them from our
sight.

Of The Republican Institutions Of The United States, And What Their Chances Of Duration Are

The Union is accidental--The Republican institutions have more prospect of permanence--A republic
for the present the natural state of the Anglo-Americans--Reason of this--In order to destroy
it, all the laws must be changed at the same time, and a great alteration take place in manners--Difficulties
experienced by the Americans in creating an aristocracy.

The dismemberment of the Union, by the introduction of war into the heart of those States which
are now confederate, with standing armies, a dictatorship, and a heavy taxation, might, eventually,
compromise the fate of the republican institutions. But we ought not to confound the future
prospects of the republic with those of the Union. The Union is an accident, which will only
last as long as circumstances are favorable to its existence; but a republican form of government
seems to me to be the natural state of the Americans; which nothing but the continued action
of hostile causes, always acting in the same direction, could change into a monarchy. The Union
exists principally in the law which formed it; one revolution, one change in public opinion,
might destroy it forever; but the republic has a much deeper foundation to rest upon.

What is understood by a republican government in the United States is the slow and quiet action
of society upon itself. It is a regular state of things really founded upon the enlightened
will of the people. It is a conciliatory government under which resolutions are allowed time
to ripen; and in which they are deliberately discussed, and executed with mature judgment.
The republicans in the United States set a high value upon morality, respect religious belief,
and acknowledge the existence of rights. They profess to think that a people ought to be moral,
religious, and temperate, in proportion as it is free. What is called the republic in the United
States, is the tranquil rule of the majority, which, after having had time to examine itself,
and to give proof of its existence, is the common source of all the powers of the State. But
the power of the majority is not of itself unlimited. In the moral world humanity, justice,
and reason enjoy an undisputed supremacy; in the political world vested rights are treated
with no less deference. The majority recognizes these two barriers; and if it now and then
overstep them, it is because, like individuals, it has passions, and, like them, it is prone
to do what is wrong, whilst it discerns what is right.

But the demagogues of Europe have made strange discoveries. A republic is not, according to
them, the rule of the majority, as has hitherto been thought, but the rule of those who are
strenuous partisans of the majority. It is not the people who preponderates in this kind of
government, but those who are best versed in the good qualities of the people. A happy distinction,
which allows men to act in the name of nations without consulting them, and to claim their
gratitude whilst their rights are spurned. A republican government, moreover, is the only one
which claims the right of doing whatever it chooses, and despising what men have hitherto respected,
from the highest moral obligations to the vulgar rules of common-sense. It had been supposed,
until our time, that despotism was odious, under whatever form it appeared. But it is a discovery
of modern days that there are such things as legitimate tyranny and holy injustice, provided
they are exercised in the name of the people.

The ideas which the Americans have adopted respecting the republican form of government, render
it easy for them to live under it, and insure its duration. If, in their country, this form
be often practically bad, at least it is theoretically good; and, in the end, the people always
acts in conformity to it.

It was impossible at the foundation of the States, and it would still be difficult, to establish
a central administration in America. The inhabitants are dispersed over too great a space,
and separated by too many natural obstacles, for one man to undertake to direct the details
of their existence. America is therefore pre-eminently the country of provincial and municipal
government. To this cause, which was plainly felt by all the Europeans of the New World, the
Anglo-Americans added several others peculiar to themselves.

At the time of the settlement of the North American colonies, municipal liberty had already
penetrated into the laws as well as the manners of the English; and the emigrants adopted it,
not only as a necessary thing, but as a benefit which they knew how to appreciate. We have
already seen the manner in which the colonies were founded: every province, and almost every
district, was peopled separately by men who were strangers to each other, or who associated
with very different purposes. The English settlers in the United States, therefore, early perceived
that they were divided into a great number of small and distinct communities which belonged
to no common centre; and that it was needful for each of these little communities to take care
of its own affairs, since there did not appear to be any central authority which was naturally
bound and easily enabled to provide for them. Thus, the nature of the country, the manner in
which the British colonies were founded, the habits of the first emigrants, in short everything,
united to promote, in an extraordinary degree, municipal and provincial liberties.

In the United States, therefore, the mass of the institutions of the country is essentially
republican; and in order permanently to destroy the laws which form the basis of the republic,
it would be necessary to abolish all the laws at once. At the present day it would be even
more difficult for a party to succeed in founding a monarchy in the United States than for
a set of men to proclaim that France should henceforward be a republic. Royalty would not find
a system of legislation prepared for it beforehand; and a monarchy would then exist, really
surrounded by republican institutions. The monarchical principle would likewise have great
difficulty in penetrating into the manners of the Americans.

In the United States, the sovereignty of the people is not an isolated doctrine bearing no
relation to the prevailing manners and ideas of the people: it may, on the contrary, be regarded
as the last link of a chain of opinions which binds the whole Anglo-American world. That Providence
has given to every human being the degree of reason necessary to direct himself in the affairs
which interest him exclusively--such is the grand maxim upon which civil and political society
rests in the United States. The father of a family applies it to his children; the master to
his servants; the township to its officers; the province to its townships; the State to its
provinces; the Union to the States; and when extended to the nation, it becomes the doctrine
of the sovereignty of the people.

Thus, in the United States, the fundamental principle of the republic is the same which governs
the greater part of human actions; republican notions insinuate themselves into all the ideas,
opinions, and habits of the Americans, whilst they are formerly recognized by the legislation:
and before this legislation can be altered the whole community must undergo very serious changes.
In the United States, even the religion of most of the citizens is republican, since it submits
the truths of the other world to private judgment: as in politics the care of its temporal
interests is abandoned to the good sense of the people. Thus every man is allowed freely to
take that road which he thinks will lead him to heaven; just as the law permits every citizen
to have the right of choosing his government.

It is evident that nothing but a long series of events, all having the same tendency, can substitute
for this combination of laws, opinions, and manners, a mass of opposite opinions, manners,
and laws.

If republican principles are to perish in America, they can only yield after a laborious social
process, often interrupted, and as often resumed; they will have many apparent revivals, and
will not become totally extinct until an entirely new people shall have succeeded to that which
now exists. Now, it must be admitted that there is no symptom or presage of the approach of
such a revolution. There is nothing more striking to a person newly arrived in the United States,
than the kind of tumultuous agitation in which he finds political society. The laws are incessantly
changing, and at first sight it seems impossible that a people so variable in its desires should
avoid adopting, within a short space of time, a completely new form of government. Such apprehensions
are, however, premature; the instability which affects political institutions is of two kinds,
which ought not to be confounded: the first, which modifies secondary laws, is not incompatible
with a very settled state of society; the other shakes the very foundations of the Constitution,
and attacks the fundamental principles of legislation; this species of instability is always
followed by troubles and revolutions, and the nation which suffers under it is in a state of
violent transition.

Experience shows that these two kinds of legislative instability have no necessary connection;
for they have been found united or separate, according to times and circumstances. The first
is common in the United States, but not the second: the Americans often change their laws,
but the foundation of the Constitution is respected.

In our days the republican principle rules in America, as the monarchical principle did in
France under Louis XIV. The French of that period were not only friends of the monarchy, but
they thought it impossible to put anything in its place; they received it as we receive the
rays of the sun and the return of the seasons. Amongst them the royal power had neither advocates
nor opponents. In like manner does the republican government exist in America, without contention
or opposition; without proofs and arguments, by a tacit agreement, a sort of consensus universalis.
It is, however, my opinion that by changing their administrative forms as often as they do,
the inhabitants of the United States compromise the future stability of their government.

It may be apprehended that men, perpetually thwarted in their designs by the mutability of
the legislation, will learn to look upon republican institutions as an inconvenient form of
society; the evil resulting from the instability of the secondary enactments might then raise
a doubt as to the nature of the fundamental principles of the Constitution, and indirectly
bring about a revolution; but this epoch is still very remote.

It may, however, be foreseen even now, that when the Americans lose their republican institutions
they will speedily arrive at a despotic government, without a long interval of limited monarchy.
Montesquieu remarked, that nothing is more absolute than the authority of a prince who immediately
succeeds a republic, since the powers which had fearlessly been intrusted to an elected magistrate
are then transferred to a hereditary sovereign. This is true in general, but it is more peculiarly
applicable to a democratic republic. In the United States, the magistrates are not elected
by a particular class of citizens, but by the majority of the nation; they are the immediate
representatives of the passions of the multitude; and as they are wholly dependent upon its
pleasure, they excite neither hatred nor fear: hence, as I have already shown, very little
care has been taken to limit their influence, and they are left in possession of a vast deal
of arbitrary power. This state of things has engendered habits which would outlive itself;
the American magistrate would retain his power, but he would cease to be responsible for the
exercise of it; and it is impossible to say what bounds could then be set to tyranny.

Some of our European politicians expect to see an aristocracy arise in America, and they already
predict the exact period at which it will be able to assume the reins of government. I have
previously observed, and I repeat my assertion, that the present tendency of American society
appears to me to become more and more democratic. Nevertheless, I do not assert that the Americans
will not, at some future time, restrict the circle of political rights in their country, or
confiscate those rights to the advantage of a single individual; but I cannot imagine that
they will ever bestow the exclusive exercise of them upon a privileged class of citizens, or,
in other words, that they will ever found an aristocracy.

An aristocratic body is composed of a certain number of citizens who, without being very far
removed from the mass of the people, are, nevertheless, permanently stationed above it: a body
which it is easy to touch and difficult to strike; with which the people are in daily contact,
but with which they can never combine. Nothing can be imagined more contrary to nature and
to the secret propensities of the human heart than a subjection of this kind; and men who are
left to follow their own bent will always prefer the arbitrary power of a king to the regular
administration of an aristocracy. Aristocratic institutions cannot subsist without laying down
the inequality of men as a fundamental principle, as a part and parcel of the legislation,
affecting the condition of the human family as much as it affects that of society; but these
are things so repugnant to natural equity that they can only be extorted from men by constraint.

Reflection On The Causes Of The Commercial Prosperity Of The Of The United States

The Americans destined by Nature to be a great maritime people--Extent of their coasts--Depth
of their ports--Size of their rivers--The commercial superiority of the Anglo-Americans less
attributable, however, to physical circumstances than to moral and intellectual causes--Reason
of this opinion--Future destiny of the Anglo-Americans as a commercial nation--The dissolution
of the Union would not check the maritime vigor of the States--Reason of this--Anglo-Americans
will naturally supply the wants of the inhabitants of South America--They will become, like
the English, the factors of a great portion of the world.

The coast of the United States, from the Bay of Fundy to the Sabine River in the Gulf of Mexico,
is more than two thousand miles in extent. These shores form an unbroken line, and they are
all subject to the same government. No nation in the world possesses vaster, deeper, or more
secure ports for shipping than the Americans.

The inhabitants of the United States constitute a great civilized people, which fortune has
placed in the midst of an uncultivated country at a distance of three thousand miles from the
central point of civilization. America consequently stands in daily need of European trade.
The Americans will, no doubt, ultimately succeed in producing or manufacturing at home most
of the articles which they require; but the two continents can never be independent of each
other, so numerous are the natural ties which exist between their wants, their ideas, their
habits, and their manners.

The Union produces peculiar commodities which are now become necessary to us, but which cannot
be cultivated, or can only be raised at an enormous expense, upon the soil of Europe. The Americans
only consume a small portion of this produce, and they are willing to sell us the rest. Europe
is therefore the market of America, as America is the market of Europe; and maritime commerce
is no less necessary to enable the inhabitants of the United States to transport their raw
materials to the ports of Europe, than it is to enable us to supply them with our manufactured
produce. The United States were therefore necessarily reduced to the alternative of increasing
the business of other maritime nations to a great extent, if they had themselves declined to
enter into commerce, as the Spaniards of Mexico have hitherto done; or, in the second place,
of becoming one of the first trading powers of the globe.

The Anglo-Americans have always displayed a very decided taste for the sea. The Declaration
of Independence broke the commercial restrictions which united them to England, and gave a
fresh and powerful stimulus to their maritime genius. Ever since that time, the shipping of
the Union has increased in almost the same rapid proportion as the number of its inhabitants.
The Americans themselves now transport to their own shores nine-tenths of the European produce
which they consume. *g And they also bring three-quarters of the exports of the New World to
the European consumer. *h The ships of the United States fill the docks of Havre and of Liverpool;
whilst the number of English and French vessels which are to be seen at New York is comparatively
small. *i

[Footnote g: The total value of goods imported during the year which ended on September 30,
1832, was $101,129,266. The value of the cargoes of foreign vessels did not amount to $10,731,039,
or about one-tenth of the entire sum.]

[Footnote h: The value of goods exported during the same year amounted to $87,176,943; the
value of goods exported by foreign vessels amounted to $21,036,183, or about one quarter of
the whole sum. (Williams's "Register," 1833, p. 398.)]

[Footnote i: The tonnage of the vessels which entered all the ports of the Union in the years
1829, 1830, and 1831, amounted to 3,307,719 tons, of which 544,571 tons were foreign vessels;
they stood, therefore, to the American vessels in a ratio of about 16 to 100. ("National Calendar,"
1833, p. 304.) The tonnage of the English vessels which entered the ports of London, Liverpool,
and Hull, in the years 1820, 1826, and 1831, amounted to 443,800 tons. The foreign vessels
which entered the same ports during the same years amounted to 159,431 tons. The ratio between
them was, therefore, about 36 to 100. ("Companion to the Almanac," 1834, p. 169.) In the year
1832 the ratio between the foreign and British ships which entered the ports of Great Britain
was 29 to 100. [These statements relate to a condition of affairs which has ceased to exist;
the Civil War and the heavy taxation of the United States entirely altered the trade and navigation
of the country.]]

Thus, not only does the American merchant face the competition of his own countrymen, but he
even supports that of foreign nations in their own ports with success. This is readily explained
by the fact that the vessels of the United States can cross the seas at a cheaper rate than
any other vessels in the world. As long as the mercantile shipping of the United States preserves
this superiority, it will not only retain what it has acquired, but it will constantly increase
in prosperity.

Chapter XVIII: Future Condition Of Three Races--Part X

It is difficult to say for what reason the Americans can trade at a lower rate than other nations;
and one is at first led to attribute this circumstance to the physical or natural advantages
which are within their reach; but this supposition is erroneous. The American vessels cost
almost as much to build as our own; *j they are not better built, and they generally last for
a shorter time. The pay of the American sailor is more considerable than the pay on board European
ships; which is proved by the great number of Europeans who are to be met with in the merchant
vessels of the United States. But I am of opinion that the true cause of their superiority
must not be sought for in physical advantages, but that it is wholly attributable to their
moral and intellectual qualities.

[Footnote j: Materials are, generally speaking, less expensive in America than in Europe, but
the price of labor is much higher.]

The following comparison will illustrate my meaning. During the campaigns of the Revolution
the French introduced a new system of tactics into the art of war, which perplexed the oldest
generals, and very nearly destroyed the most ancient monarchies in Europe. They undertook (what
had never before been attempted) to make shift without a number of things which had always
been held to be indispensable in warfare; they required novel exertions on the part of their
troops which no civilized nations had ever thought of; they achieved great actions in an incredibly
short space of time; and they risked human life without hesitation to obtain the object in
view. The French had less money and fewer men than their enemies; their resources were infinitely
inferior; nevertheless they were constantly victorious, until their adversaries chose to imitate
their example.

The Americans have introduced a similar system into their commercial speculations; and they
do for cheapness what the French did for conquest. The European sailor navigates with prudence;
he only sets sail when the weather is favorable; if an unforseen accident befalls him, he puts
into port; at night he furls a portion of his canvas; and when the whitening billows intimate
the vicinity of land, he checks his way, and takes an observation of the sun. But the American
neglects these precautions and braves these dangers. He weighs anchor in the midst of tempestuous
gales; by night and by day he spreads his sheets to the wind; he repairs as he goes along such
damage as his vessel may have sustained from the storm; and when he at last approaches the
term of his voyage, he darts onward to the shore as if he already descried a port. The Americans
are often shipwrecked, but no trader crosses the seas so rapidly. And as they perform the same
distance in a shorter time, they can perform it at a cheaper rate.

The European touches several times at different ports in the course of a long voyage; he loses
a good deal of precious time in making the harbor, or in waiting for a favorable wind to leave
it; and he pays daily dues to be allowed to remain there. The American starts from Boston to
go to purchase tea in China; he arrives at Canton, stays there a few days, and then returns.
In less than two years he has sailed as far as the entire circumference of the globe, and he
has seen land but once. It is true that during a voyage of eight or ten months he has drunk
brackish water and lived upon salt meat; that he has been in a continual contest with the sea,
with disease, and with a tedious existence; but upon his return he can sell a pound of his
tea for a half-penny less than the English merchant, and his purpose is accomplished.

I cannot better explain my meaning than by saying that the Americans affect a sort of heroism
in their manner of trading. But the European merchant will always find it very difficult to
imitate his American competitor, who, in adopting the system which I have just described, follows
not only a calculation of his gain, but an impulse of his nature.

The inhabitants of the United States are subject to all the wants and all the desires which
result from an advanced stage of civilization; but as they are not surrounded by a community
admirably adapted, like that of Europe, to satisfy their wants, they are often obliged to procure
for themselves the various articles which education and habit have rendered necessaries. In
America it sometimes happens that the same individual tills his field, builds his dwelling,
contrives his tools, makes his shoes, and weaves the coarse stuff of which his dress is composed.
This circumstance is prejudicial to the excellence of the work; but it powerfully contributes
to awaken the intelligence of the workman. Nothing tends to materialize man, and to deprive
his work of the faintest trace of mind, more than extreme division of labor. In a country like
America, where men devoted to special occupations are rare, a long apprenticeship cannot be
required from anyone who embraces a profession. The Americans, therefore, change their means
of gaining a livelihood very readily; and they suit their occupations to the exigencies of
the moment, in the manner most profitable to themselves. Men are to be met with who have successively
been barristers, farmers, merchants, ministers of the gospel, and physicians. If the American
be less perfect in each craft than the European, at least there is scarcely any trade with
which he is utterly unacquainted. His capacity is more general, and the circle of his intelligence
is enlarged.

The inhabitants of the United States are never fettered by the axioms of their profession;
they escape from all the prejudices of their present station; they are not more attached to
one line of operation than to another; they are not more prone to employ an old method than
a new one; they have no rooted habits, and they easily shake off the influence which the habits
of other nations might exercise upon their minds from a conviction that their country is unlike
any other, and that its situation is without a precedent in the world. America is a land of
wonders, in which everything is in constant motion, and every movement seems an improvement.
The idea of novelty is there indissolubly connected with the idea of amelioration. No natural
boundary seems to be set to the efforts of man; and what is not yet done is only what he has
not yet attempted to do.

This perpetual change which goes on in the United States, these frequent vicissitudes of fortune,
accompanied by such unforeseen fluctuations in private and in public wealth, serve to keep
the minds of the citizens in a perpetual state of feverish agitation, which admirably invigorates
their exertions, and keeps them in a state of excitement above the ordinary level of mankind.
The whole life of an American is passed like a game of chance, a revolutionary crisis, or a
battle. As the same causes are continually in operation throughout the country, they ultimately
impart an irresistible impulse to the national character. The American, taken as a chance specimen
of his countrymen, must then be a man of singular warmth in his desires, enterprising, fond
of adventure, and, above all, of innovation. The same bent is manifest in all that he does;
he introduces it into his political laws, his religious doctrines, his theories of social economy,
and his domestic occupations; he bears it with him in the depths of the backwoods, as well
as in the business of the city. It is this same passion, applied to maritime commerce, which
makes him the cheapest and the quickest trader in the world.

As long as the sailors of the United States retain these inspiriting advantages, and the practical
superiority which they derive from them, they will not only continue to supply the wants of
the producers and consumers of their own country, but they will tend more and more to become,
like the English, the factors of all other peoples. *k This prediction has already begun to
be realized; we perceive that the American traders are introducing themselves as intermediate
agents in the commerce of several European nations; *l and America will offer a still wider
field to their enterprise.

[Footnote k: It must not be supposed that English vessels are exclusively employed in transporting
foreign produce into England, or British produce to foreign countries; at the present day the
merchant shipping of England may be regarded in the light of a vast system of public conveyances,
ready to serve all the producers of the world, and to open communications between all peoples.
The maritime genius of the Americans prompts them to enter into competition with the English.]

[Footnote l: Part of the commerce of the Mediterranean is already carried on by American vessels.]

The great colonies which were founded in South America by the Spaniards and the Portuguese
have since become empires. Civil war and oppression now lay waste those extensive regions.
Population does not increase, and the thinly scattered inhabitants are too much absorbed in
the cares of self-defense even to attempt any amelioration of their condition. Such, however,
will not always be the case. Europe has succeeded by her own efforts in piercing the gloom
of the Middle Ages; South America has the same Christian laws and Christian manners as we have;
she contains all the germs of civilization which have grown amidst the nations of Europe or
their offsets, added to the advantages to be derived from our example: why then should she
always remain uncivilized? It is clear that the question is simply one of time; at some future
period, which may be more or less remote, the inhabitants of South America will constitute
flourishing and enlightened nations.

But when the Spaniards and Portuguese of South America begin to feel the wants common to all
civilized nations, they will still be unable to satisfy those wants for themselves; as the
youngest children of civilization, they must perforce admit the superiority of their elder
brethren. They will be agriculturists long before they succeed in manufactures or commerce,
and they will require the mediation of strangers to exchange their produce beyond seas for
those articles for which a demand will begin to be felt.

It is unquestionable that the Americans of the North will one day supply the wants of the Americans
of the South. Nature has placed them in contiguity, and has furnished the former with every
means of knowing and appreciating those demands, of establishing a permanent connection with
those States, and of gradually filling their markets. The merchants of the United States could
only forfeit these natural advantages if he were very inferior to the merchant of Europe; to
whom he is, on the contrary, superior in several respects. The Americans of the United States
already exercise a very considerable moral influence upon all the peoples of the New World.
They are the source of intelligence, and all the nations which inhabit the same continent are
already accustomed to consider them as the most enlightened, the most powerful, and the most
wealthy members of the great American family. All eyes are therefore turned towards the Union;
and the States of which that body is composed are the models which the other communities try
to imitate to the best of their power; it is from the United States that they borrow their
political principles and their laws.

The Americans of the United States stand in precisely the same position with regard to the
peoples of South America as their fathers, the English, occupy with regard to the Italians,
the Spaniards, the Portuguese, and all those nations of Europe which receive their articles
of daily consumption from England, because they are less advanced in civilization and trade.
England is at this time the natural emporium of almost all the nations which are within its
reach; the American Union will perform the same part in the other hemisphere; and every community
which is founded, or which prospers in the New World, is founded and prospers to the advantage
of the Anglo-Americans.

If the Union were to be dissolved, the commerce of the States which now compose it would undoubtedly
be checked for a time; but this consequence would be less perceptible than is generally supposed.
It is evident that, whatever may happen, the commercial States will remain united. They are
all contiguous to each other; they have identically the same opinions, interests, and manners;
and they are alone competent to form a very great maritime power. Even if the South of the
Union were to become independent of the North, it would still require the services of those
States. I have already observed that the South is not a commercial country, and nothing intimates
that it is likely to become so. The Americans of the South of the United States will therefore
be obliged, for a long time to come, to have recourse to strangers to export their produce,
and to supply them with the commodities which are requisite to satisfy their wants. But the
Northern States are undoubtedly able to act as their intermediate agents cheaper than any other
merchants. They will therefore retain that employment, for cheapness is the sovereign law of
commerce. National claims and national prejudices cannot resist the influence of cheapness.
Nothing can be more virulent than the hatred which exists between the Americans of the United
States and the English. But notwithstanding these inimical feelings, the Americans derive the
greater part of their manufactured commodities from England, because England supplies them
at a cheaper rate than any other nation. Thus the increasing prosperity of America turns, notwithstanding
the grudges of the Americans, to the advantage of British manufactures.

Reason shows and experience proves that no commercial prosperity can be durable if it cannot
be united, in case of need, to naval force. This truth is as well understood in the United
States as it can be anywhere else: the Americans are already able to make their flag respected;
in a few years they will be able to make it feared. I am convinced that the dismemberment of
the Union would not have the effect of diminishing the naval power of the Americans, but that
it would powerfully contribute to increase it. At the present time the commercial States are
connected with others which have not the same interests, and which frequently yield an unwilling
consent to the increase of a maritime power by which they are only indirectly benefited. If,
on the contrary, the commercial States of the Union formed one independent nation, commerce
would become the foremost of their national interests; they would consequently be willing to
make very great sacrifices to protect their shipping, and nothing would prevent them from pursuing
their designs upon this point.

Nations, as well as men, almost always betray the most prominent features of their future destiny
in their earliest years. When I contemplate the ardor with which the Anglo-Americans prosecute
commercial enterprise, the advantages which befriend them, and the success of their undertakings,
I cannot refrain from believing that they will one day become the first maritime power of the
globe. They are born to rule the seas, as the Romans were to conquer the world.

Conclusion

I have now nearly reached the close of my inquiry; hitherto, in speaking of the future destiny
of the United States, I have endeavored to divide my subject into distinct portions, in order
to study each of them with more attention. My present object is to embrace the whole from one
single point; the remarks I shall make will be less detailed, but they will be more sure. I
shall perceive each object less distinctly, but I shall descry the principal facts with more
certainty. A traveller who has just left the walls of an immense city, climbs the neighboring
hill; as he goes father off he loses sight of the men whom he has so recently quitted; their
dwellings are confused in a dense mass; he can no longer distinguish the public squares, and
he can scarcely trace out the great thoroughfares; but his eye has less difficulty in following
the boundaries of the city, and for the first time he sees the shape of the vast whole. Such
is the future destiny of the British race in North America to my eye; the details of the stupendous
picture are overhung with shade, but I conceive a clear idea of the entire subject.

The territory now occupied or possessed by the United States of America forms about one-twentieth
part of the habitable earth. But extensive as these confines are, it must not be supposed that
the Anglo-American race will always remain within them; indeed, it has already far overstepped
them.

There was once a time at which we also might have created a great French nation in the American
wilds, to counterbalance the influence of the English upon the destinies of the New World.
France formerly possessed a territory in North America, scarcely less extensive than the whole
of Europe. The three greatest rivers of that continent then flowed within her dominions. The
Indian tribes which dwelt between the mouth of the St. Lawrence and the delta of the Mississippi
were unaccustomed to any other tongue but ours; and all the European settlements scattered
over that immense region recalled the traditions of our country. Louisbourg, Montmorency, Duquesne,
St. Louis, Vincennes, New Orleans (for such were the names they bore) are words dear to France
and familiar to our ears.

But a concourse of circumstances, which it would be tedious to enumerate, *m have deprived
us of this magnificent inheritance. Wherever the French settlers were numerically weak and
partially established, they have disappeared: those who remain are collected on a small extent
of country, and are now subject to other laws. The 400,000 French inhabitants of Lower Canada
constitute, at the present time, the remnant of an old nation lost in the midst of a new people.
A foreign population is increasing around them unceasingly and on all sides, which already
penetrates amongst the ancient masters of the country, predominates in their cities and corrupts
their language. This population is identical with that of the United States; it is therefore
with truth that I asserted that the British race is not confined within the frontiers of the
Union, since it already extends to the northeast.

[Footnote m: The foremost of these circumstances is, that nations which are accustomed to free
institutions and municipal government are better able than any others to found prosperous colonies.
The habit of thinking and governing for oneself is indispensable in a new country, where success
necessarily depends, in a great measure, upon the individual exertions of the settlers.]

To the northwest nothing is to be met with but a few insignificant Russian settlements; but
to the southwest, Mexico presents a barrier to the Anglo-Americans. Thus, the Spaniards and
the Anglo-Americans are, properly speaking, the only two races which divide the possession
of the New World. The limits of separation between them have been settled by a treaty; but
although the conditions of that treaty are exceedingly favorable to the Anglo-Americans, I
do not doubt that they will shortly infringe this arrangement. Vast provinces, extending beyond
the frontiers of the Union towards Mexico, are still destitute of inhabitants. The natives
of the United States will forestall the rightful occupants of these solitary regions. They
will take possession of the soil, and establish social institutions, so that when the legal
owner arrives at length, he will find the wilderness under cultivation, and strangers quietly
settled in the midst of his inheritance. *n

[Footnote n: [This was speedily accomplished, and ere long both Texas and California formed
part of the United States. The Russian settlements were acquired by purchase.]]

The lands of the New World belong to the first occupant, and they are the natural reward of
the swiftest pioneer. Even the countries which are already peopled will have some difficulty
in securing themselves from this invasion. I have already alluded to what is taking place in
the province of Texas. The inhabitants of the United States are perpetually migrating to Texas,
where they purchase land; and although they conform to the laws of the country, they are gradually
founding the empire of their own language and their own manners. The province of Texas is still
part of the Mexican dominions, but it will soon contain no Mexicans; the same thing has occurred
whenever the Anglo-Americans have come into contact with populations of a different origin.

It cannot be denied that the British race has acquired an amazing preponderance over all the
other European races in the New World; and that it is very superior to them in civilization,
in industry, and in power. As long as it is only surrounded by desert or thinly peopled countries,
as long as it encounters no dense populations upon its route, through which it cannot work
its way, it will assuredly continue to spread. The lines marked out by treaties will not stop
it; but it will everywhere transgress these imaginary barriers.

The geographical position of the British race in the New World is peculiarly favorable to its
rapid increase. Above its northern frontiers the icy regions of the Pole extend; and a few
degrees below its southern confines lies the burning climate of the Equator. The Anglo-Americans
are, therefore, placed in the most temperate and habitable zone of the continent.

It is generally supposed that the prodigious increase of population in the United States is
posterior to their Declaration of Independence. But this is an error: the population increased
as rapidly under the colonial system as it does at the present day; that is to say, it doubled
in about twenty-two years. But this proportion which is now applied to millions, was then applied
to thousands of inhabitants; and the same fact which was scarcely noticeable a century ago,
is now evident to every observer.

The British subjects in Canada, who are dependent on a king, augment and spread almost as rapidly
as the British settlers of the United States, who live under a republican government. During
the war of independence, which lasted eight years, the population continued to increase without
intermission in the same ratio. Although powerful Indian nations allied with the English existed
at that time upon the western frontiers, the emigration westward was never checked. Whilst
the enemy laid waste the shores of the Atlantic, Kentucky, the western parts of Pennsylvania,
and the States of Vermont and of Maine were filling with inhabitants. Nor did the unsettled
state of the Constitution, which succeeded the war, prevent the increase of the population,
or stop its progress across the wilds. Thus, the difference of laws, the various conditions
of peace and war, of order and of anarchy, have exercised no perceptible influence upon the
gradual development of the Anglo-Americans. This may be readily understood; for the fact is,
that no causes are sufficiently general to exercise a simultaneous influence over the whole
of so extensive a territory. One portion of the country always offers a sure retreat from the
calamities which afflict another part; and however great may be the evil, the remedy which
is at hand is greater still.

It must not, then, be imagined that the impulse of the British race in the New World can be
arrested. The dismemberment of the Union, and the hostilities which might ensure, the abolition
of republican institutions, and the tyrannical government which might succeed it, may retard
this impulse, but they cannot prevent it from ultimately fulfilling the destinies to which
that race is reserved. No power upon earth can close upon the emigrants that fertile wilderness
which offers resources to all industry, and a refuge from all want. Future events, of whatever
nature they may be, will not deprive the Americans of their climate or of their inland seas,
of their great rivers or of their exuberant soil. Nor will bad laws, revolutions, and anarchy
be able to obliterate that love of prosperity and that spirit of enterprise which seem to be
the distinctive characteristics of their race, or to extinguish that knowledge which guides
them on their way.

Thus, in the midst of the uncertain future, one event at least is sure. At a period which may
be said to be near (for we are speaking of the life of a nation), the Anglo-Americans will
alone cover the immense space contained between the polar regions and the tropics, extending
from the coasts of the Atlantic to the shores of the Pacific Ocean. The territory which will
probably be occupied by the Anglo-Americans at some future time, may be computed to equal three-quarters
of Europe in extent. *o The climate of the Union is upon the whole preferable to that of Europe,
and its natural advantages are not less great; it is therefore evident that its population
will at some future time be proportionate to our own. Europe, divided as it is between so many
different nations, and torn as it has been by incessant wars and the barbarous manners of the
Middle Ages, has notwithstanding attained a population of 410 inhabitants to the square league.
*p What cause can prevent the United States from having as numerous a population in time?

[Footnote o: The United States already extend over a territory equal to one-half of Europe.
The area of Europe is 500,000 square leagues, and its population 205,000,000 of inhabitants.
("Malte Brun," liv. 114. vol. vi. p. 4.)

[This computation is given in French leagues, which were in use when the author wrote. Twenty
years later, in 1850, the superficial area of the United States had been extended to 3,306,865
square miles of territory, which is about the area of Europe.]]

[Footnote p: See "Malte Brun," liv. 116, vol. vi. p. 92.]

Many ages must elapse before the divers offsets of the British race in America cease to present
the same homogeneous characteristics: and the time cannot be foreseen at which a permanent
inequality of conditions will be established in the New World. Whatever differences may arise,
from peace or from war, from freedom or oppression, from prosperity or want, between the destinies
of the different descendants of the great Anglo-American family, they will at least preserve
an analogous social condition, and they will hold in common the customs and the opinions to
which that social condition has given birth.

In the Middle Ages, the tie of religion was sufficiently powerful to imbue all the different
populations of Europe with the same civilization. The British of the New World have a thousand
other reciprocal ties; and they live at a time when the tendency to equality is general amongst
mankind. The Middle Ages were a period when everything was broken up; when each people, each
province, each city, and each family, had a strong tendency to maintain its distinct individuality.
At the present time an opposite tendency seems to prevail, and the nations seem to be advancing
to unity. Our means of intellectual intercourse unite the most remote parts of the earth; and
it is impossible for men to remain strangers to each other, or to be ignorant of the events
which are taking place in any corner of the globe. The consequence is that there is less difference,
at the present day, between the Europeans and their descendants in the New World, than there
was between certain towns in the thirteenth century which were only separated by a river. If
this tendency to assimilation brings foreign nations closer to each other, it must a fortiori
prevent the descendants of the same people from becoming aliens to each other.

The time will therefore come when one hundred and fifty millions of men will be living in North
America, *q equal in condition, the progeny of one race, owing their origin to the same cause,
and preserving the same civilization, the same language, the same religion, the same habits,
the same manners, and imbued with the same opinions, propagated under the same forms. The rest
is uncertain, but this is certain; and it is a fact new to the world--a fact fraught with such
portentous consequences as to baffle the efforts even of the imagination.

[Footnote q: This would be a population proportionate to that of Europe, taken at a mean rate
of 410 inhabitants to the square league.]

There are, at the present time, two great nations in the world which seem to tend towards the
same end, although they started from different points: I allude to the Russians and the Americans.
Both of them have grown up unnoticed; and whilst the attention of mankind was directed elsewhere,
they have suddenly assumed a most prominent place amongst the nations; and the world learned
their existence and their greatness at almost the same time.

All other nations seem to have nearly reached their natural limits, and only to be charged
with the maintenance of their power; but these are still in the act of growth; *r all the others
are stopped, or continue to advance with extreme difficulty; these are proceeding with ease
and with celerity along a path to which the human eye can assign no term. The American struggles
against the natural obstacles which oppose him; the adversaries of the Russian are men; the
former combats the wilderness and savage life; the latter, civilization with all its weapons
and its arts: the conquests of the one are therefore gained by the ploughshare; those of the
other by the sword. The Anglo-American relies upon personal interest to accomplish his ends,
and gives free scope to the unguided exertions and common-sense of the citizens; the Russian
centres all the authority of society in a single arm: the principal instrument of the former
is freedom; of the latter servitude. Their starting-point is different, and their courses are
not the same; yet each of them seems to be marked out by the will of Heaven to sway the destinies
of half the globe.

[Footnote r: Russia is the country in the Old World in which population increases most rapidly
in proportion.]