And with a desperate effort he succeeded in getting on his knees. But, suddenly, falling backward
with alarm, his body crouched on his heels, his hair standing on end, his look wild, his mouth
distorted with terror, his hands stretched out, he seemed to struggle with age against an invisible
object, and cried, in a broken voice, "What a bite--help--my arms break--I cannot take it off--sharp
teeth. No, no, oh! not the eyes--help--a black serpent--oh! its flat head--its burning eyeballs.
It looks at me--it is the devil. Ah! he knows me--Jacques Ferrand--at the church--holy man--always
at the church-avaunt!" And the notary, raising himself a little and sustaining himself with
one hand on the floor, tried with the other to make the sign of the cross.

His livid face was covered with sweat, and all the symptoms of approaching death were manifested.
He fell immediately backward, stiff and inanimate; his eyes seemed to start from their sockets;
horrible convulsions stamped his features with unearthly contortions, like those forced from
dead bodies by a galvanic battery; a bloody foam inundated his lips, and the life of this monster
became extinct in the midst of one of his horrid visions, for he muttered these words: "Night--dark!
dark specters--brazen skeletons-- red-hot--twine around me their burning fingers--my flesh
smokes--specter-- bloody--no! no--Cecily--fire--Cecily!" Such were the last words of Jacques
Ferrand.

CHAPTER XVII.

THE HOSPITAL.

It will be remembered that Fleur-de-Marie, saved by La Louve, had been conveyed to the country
house of Dr. Griffon, [Footnote: The name which I have the honor to bear, which my father,
grandfather, grand-uncle, and great grandfather--one of the most learned men of the seventeenth
century--have rendered celebrated by works on theoretical and practical medicine, would forbid
me from any attack, or hasty reflection, concerning physicians; even though the gravity of
the subject upon which I treat, and the just and deserved celebrity of the French Medical School,
did not prevent me. In Dr. Griffon I have only wished to personify one, otherwise respectable,
who allows himself to be carried away the ardor of art, and led to make experiments which are
a serious abuse medical power (if I may express myself in this manner), forgetting that there
is something more sacred than Science--Humanity.] not far from Ravageurs' Island. The worthy
doctor, one of the physicians of the City Hospital where we shall conduct our readers, who
had obtained this situation through a powerful interest, regarded his ward as a sort of place
where he experimented on the poor the treatment which he applied afterward to his rich patients,
never hazarding on the last any new cures before having first tried and retried the application
in anima vili, as he said, with that kind of passionless barbarity which a blind love for science
produces. Thus, if the doctor wished to convince himself of the comparative effect of some
new and hazardous treatment, in order to be able to deduce consequences favorable to such or
such system, he took a certain number of patients, treated some according to the new system,
others by the ancient method. Under some circumstances, be abandoned others to the care of
nature. After which he counted the survivors. These terrible experiments were, truly, a human
sacrifice on the altar of science. Dr. Griffon did not seem to think of this. In the eyes of
this prince of science (as they phrase it) the patients of his hospital were only subjects
for study and experiment; and as, after all, there resulted sometimes from these essays in
anima vili a fact or discovery useful to science, the doctor showed himself as entirely satisfied
and triumphant as a general after a victory sufficiently costly in soldiers.

Homeopathy had never a more violent adversary than Dr. Griffon. He look upon this method as
absurd and homicidal; thus, strong in his convictions, and wishing, as he said, to drive the
homeopathists to the wall, he offered to abandon to their care a certain number of patients,
on whom they might experiment to their liking. But he affirmed in advance, sure of not being
contradicted by the result, that, out of twenty patients submitted to this treatment, not over
five, at the outside would survive. The homeopathists gave the go-by to this proposition, to
the great chagrin of the doctor, who regretted the loss of this occasion to prove, by figures,
the vanity of homeopathic practice. Dr. Griffon would have been stupefied if any one had said
to him, in reference to this free and autocratic disposition of his subjects:

"Such a state of things would cause the barbarism of those days to be regretted when condemned
criminals were exposed to undergo newly-discovered surgical operations; operations which they
dared not practice on the uncondemned. If it were successful, the condemned was pardoned. Compared
to what you do, sir, this barbarity was charity. After all, a chance for life was thus given
to a poor creature for whom the executioner was waiting, and an experiment was rendered possible
which might be useful to all. But to try your hazardous medicaments on unfortunate artisans,
for whom the hospital is the sole refuge when sickness overtakes them; to try a treatment,
perhaps fatal, on people whom poverty confides to you, trusting and powerless; to you, their
only hope; to you, who will only answer for their life to God--do you know that this is to
push the love of science to inhumanity, sir? How! the poorer classes already people the workshops,
the field, the army; in this world they only know misery and privations; and when, at the end
of their sufferings and fatigues, they fall exhausted--half-dead--sickness even does not preserve
them from a last and sacrilegious "experiment!" I ask your heart, sir, would not this be unjust
and cruel?"

Alas! Dr. Griffon would have been touched, perhaps, by these severe words, but not convinced.
Man is made the creature of circumstances. The captain thus accustoms himself to consider his
soldiers as nothing more than the pawns of the bloody game called battle. And it is because
man is thus made, that society ought to protect those whom fate exposes to the action of these
"humane necessities." Now the character of Dr. Griffon once admitted (and it can be admitted
without much hyperbole), the inmates of this hospital had then no guarantee, no recourse against
the scientific barbarity of his experiments; for there exists a grievous hiatus in the organization
of the civil hospitals. We will point it out here, so that we may be understood. Military hospitals
are each day visited by a superior officer charged to receive the complaints of the sick soldiers,
and to attend to them if they appear reasonable. This oversight completely distinct from the
government of the hospital, is excellent--it has always produced the best results. It is, besides,
impossible to see establishments better kept than the military hospitals; the soldiers are
nursed with much care, and treated, we would say, almost with respectful commiseration. Why
not have a similar superintendence established in the civil hospitals, by men completely independent
of the government and medical faculty? The complaints of the poor (if they were well founded)
would thus have an impartial organ, while at present this organ is absolutely wanting. Thus
the doors of the hospital of Dr. Griffon once shut on a patient, he belonged body and soul
to science. No friendly or disinterested ear can hear his grief. He is told plainly that, being
admitted out of charity, he becomes henceforth a part of the experimental domain of the doctor,
and that patient and malady must serve as subjects of study and observation, analysis, or instruction,
to the young students who accompany assiduously the visits of M. Griffon. In effect, the subject
soon had to answer to interrogations often the most painful, the most sorrowful; and that,
not to the doctor alone, who like the priest, fulfills a duty, and has the right to know everything--no,
he must reply in a loud voice before a curious and greedy crowd of students. Yes, in this pandemonium
of science, old or young, maid or wife, were obliged to abjure every feeling or sentiment of
shame, and to make the most confidential communications, submit to the most material investigations,
before a numerous public; and almost always these cruel formalities aggravated their disease.
And this is neither humane nor just; it is because the poor enter the hospital in the holy
name of charity, that they should be treated with compassion and with respect, for misfortune
has its dignity.

On reading the following lines, it will be perceived why we have caused them to be preceded
by these reflections. Nothing could be more sad than the nocturnal aspect of the vast ward
of the hospital, where we will introduce our readers. Along the whole length of its gloomy
walls were ranged two parallel rows of beds, vaguely lighted by the sepulchral glimmering of
a lamp suspended from the ceiling; the narrow windows were barred with iron, like a prison's.
The atmosphere is so sickening, so filled with disease, that the new patients did not often
become acclimated without danger: this increase of suffering is a kind of premium which every
new-comer inevitably pays for a hospital residence. The air of this immense hall is, then,
heavy and corrupted. At intervals, the silence of night is interrupted, now by plaintive moans,
now by profound sighs, uttered by the feverish sleepers; then all is quiet, and naught is heard
but the regular and monotonous tickings of a large clock, which strikes the hours, so long
for sleepless suffering. One of the extremities of this hall was almost plunged into obscurity.
Suddenly was heard a great stir, and the noise of rapid footsteps; a door was opened and shut
several times; a sister of charity, whose large white cap and black dress were visible from
the light which she carried in her hand, approached one of the last beds on the right side
of the hall. Some of the patients, awaking with a start, sat up in bed, attentive to what was
passing. Soon the folding doors were opened. A priest entered, bearing a crucifix--the two
sisters knelt. By the pale light which shone like a glory around this bed, while the other
parts of the hall remained in obscurity, the almoner of the hospital was seen leaning over
this couch of misery, pronouncing some words, the slow sounds of which were lost in the silence
of night. At the end of a quarter of an hour the priest took a sheet, which he threw over the bed.

Then he retired. One of the kneeling sisters arose, closed the curtains, and returned to her
prayers alongside of her companion. Then everything became once more silent. One of the patients
had just died. Among the women who did not sleep, and who had witnessed this mute scene, were
three persons whose names have already been mentioned in the course of this history: Mademoiselle
de Fermont, daughter of the unhappy widow ruined by the cupidity of Jacques Ferrand; La Lorraine,
a poor washer-woman, to whom Fleur-de-Marie had formerly given what money she had left; and
Jeanne Duport, sister of Pique-Vinaigre, the patterer of La Force. We know Mademoiselle de
Fermont and the juggler's sister. La Lorraine was a woman of about twenty, with a sweet face,
but extremely pale and thin: she was in the last stage of consumption; there was no hope of
saving her; she knew it, and was wasting away slowly. The distance was not so great between
the beds of these two women but they could speak in a low tone, and not be overheard by the
sisters.

"There is another one gone," whispered La Lorraine, thinking of the dead, and speaking to herself.
"She will not suffer more--she is very happy."

"She is very happy, if she has left no children," added Jeanne.

"Oh! you are not asleep, neighbor," said La Lorraine, to her. "How do you get on, for your
first night here? Last night, as soon as you were brought in, you were placed in bed, and I
did not dare to speak to you; I heard you sob.

"Oh! yes; I have wept much."

"You are, then, in much pain?"

"Yes, but I am used to pain; it is from sorrow I weep. At length I fell asleep; I was still
sleeping when the noise of the doors awoke me. When the priest came in, and the good sisters
knelt, I soon saw it was a woman who was dying; then I said to myself a pater and an ave for her."

"I also; and, as I have the same complaint, as this woman had, who is just dead, I could not
prevent myself from saying, 'Here is another whose sufferings are ended; she is very happy!'"

"Yes, as I told you, if she had no children."

"You have children, then?"

"Three," said the sister of Pique-Vinaigre, with a sigh,

"And you?"

"I had a little girl, but I did not keep her long. I am a washer-woman at the boats; I worked
as long as I could. But everything has an end; when my strength failed me, my bread failed
me also. They turned me oat of my lodgings; I do not know what would have become of me, except
for a poor woman who gave me shelter in a cellar, where she had concealed herself to escape
from her husband, who wished to kill her. There I was confined on the straw; but, happily,
this good woman knew a young girl, beautiful and charitable as an angel from heaven: this young
girl had a little money; she took me from the cellar, and placed me in a furnished room, paying
the rent in advance, giving me, besides, a willow cradle for my child, and forty francs for
myself, with some clothes."

"Good little girl! I also have met, by chance, with one who may be called her equal, a young
dressmaker, very obliging. I had gone to see my poor brother, who is a prisoner," said Jeanne,
after a moment of hesitation; "and I met in the visitors' room this young girl of whom I speak;
having heard me say to my brother that I was not happy, she came to me, much embarrassed, to
offer what services were in her power."

"How kind that was in her!"

"I accepted; she gave me her address, and, two days after, this dear little Rigolette--that's
her dear name--gave me employment."

"Rigolette!" cried La Lorraine.

"You know her?"

"No; but the young girl who was so generous to me, several times mentioned the name of Rigolette:
they were friends together."

"Well!" said Jeanne, smiling sadly, "since we are neighbors in sickness, we should be friends
like our two benefactresses."

"Willingly: my name is Annette Gerbier, otherwise La Lorraine, washer-woman."

"And mine, Jeanne Duport, fringe-maker. Ah! it is so good, at the hospital, to find some one
who is not altogether a stranger, above all, when you come for the first time, and you have
many troubles! But I do not wish to think of this. Tell me, La Lorraine, what was the name
of the young girl who has been so kind to you?"

"She was called La Goualeuse. All my sorrow is that I have not seen her for a long time. She
was as beautiful as the Holy Virgin, with fine flaxen hair and blue eyes, so sweet--so sweet!
Unfortunately, notwithstanding her assistance, my poor child died at two months," and Lorraine
wiped away a tear.

"Poor Lorraine!"

"I regret, my child, for myself, not for her, poor little dear! She would have too much to
struggle with, for she soon would have been an orphan. I have not a long time to live."

"You should not have such ideas at your age. Have you been sick for a long time?"

"It will soon be three months. Bless me! when I had to work for myself and my child, I increased
my labor; the winter was cold, I caught a cold on my chest; at this time I lost my little girl.
In watching her I forgot myself. To that add sorrow, and I am what you see me, consumptive,
doomed--as was the actress who has just died."

"At your age there is always hope."

"The actress was only two years older, and you see---"

"She whom the good sisters are watching now, was she an actress?"

"Oh, yes--what a fate! She had been beautiful as the day. She had plenty of money, equipages,
diamonds, but, unfortunately, the small-pox disfigured her; then want came, then poverty--behold
her dead in the hospital. Yet, she was not proud; on the contrary, she was kind and gentle
to everybody; she told us that she had written to a gentleman whom she had known in her prosperity,
who had loved her; she wrote to him to come and reclaim her body, because it hurt her feelings
to think she would be dissected--cut in pieces."

"And this gentleman has come?"

"No."

"Oh! that is very cruel."

"At each moment the poor woman asked for him, saying continually, 'Oh! he will come! oh! he
will surely come;' and yet she died, and he had not come."

"Her end must have been so much the more painful."

"Oh, Lord, yes; for she dreaded so much what they would do to her body."

"After having been rich and happy, to die here is sad! For us, it is only a change of misery."

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE VISIT.

"Speaking of that," resumed La Lorraine, after a moment's hesitation, "I wish you would render
me a service."

"Speak."

"If I should die, as is probable, before you leave this, I wish you would claim my body--I
have the same dread as the actress; and I have put aside the small amount of money I have left,
so that I can be buried."

"Do not have such ideas."

"Never mind--do you promise me?"

"Yes! but Lord be praised, that will not happen."

"But, if it does happen, I shall not have, thanks to you, the same misfortune as the actress."

"Poor lady, after having been rich, to end thus!"

"The actress was not the only one in this room who has been rich, Madame Jeanne."

"Call me Jeanne, as I call you La Lorraine."

"You are very kind."

"Who is it that has been rich besides?"

"A young person not over fifteen, who was brought here last night, before you came. She was
so weak that they were obliged to carry her. The sister said that this young girl and her mother
were very respectable people, who had been ruined."

"Her mother is also here?"

"No: the mother was so very sick, that she could not be moved. The poor child would not leave
her, and they profited by a fainting fit to bring her here. It was the proprietor of a wretched
lodging-house who, for fear that they would die in his abode, applied for their admission."

"And where is she?"

"There, in the bed opposite to yours."

"And only fifteen?"

"At the most."

"The age of my eldest daughter!" said Jeanne, unable to restrain her tears.

"Pardon me," said La Lorraine, sadly, "pardon me, if I cause you pain, unintentionally, by
speaking of your children. Perhaps they are sick also?"

"Alas! I do not know what will become of them if I stay here more than a week."

"And your husband?"

After a pause, Jeanne answered, drying her tears, "Since we are friends together, La Lorraine,
I can tell you my troubles, as you have told me yours--it will solace me. My husband was a
good workman; he has become dissipated; he abandoned me and my children, after having sold
all that we possessed; I worked hard; charitable people aided me; I began again to raise my
head; I brought up my little family as well as I could, when my husband came back, with a bad
woman, and again took all I had, leaving me to commence anew."

"Poor Jeanne! could you not prevent that?"

"I could have procured a separation by law, but the law is too dear, as my brother says. Alas!
you shall see what effect this has upon us poor folks; some days since, I returned to see my
brother: he gave me three francs, which he had collected from those who listened to his stories
in prison."

"It is plain to see that you are a kind-hearted family," said La Lorraine, who, from a rare
instinctive delicacy, did not interrogate Jeanne as to the cause of her brother's imprisonment.

"I took courage, then; I thought that my husband would not return for a long time, for he had
taken from me all that he could take. No, I am mistaken," added the unhappy mother, shuddering:
"there remained my daughter--my poor Catharine."

"Your daughter?"

"You shall see--you shall see. Three days since, I was at work, with my children around me;
my husband came in. I saw at once that he been drinking. 'I come after Catharine,' said he.
I caught my daughter by the arm, and asked Duport, 'Where do you wish to take her?' 'That does
not concern you--she is my daughter; let her tie up some clothes and follow me.' At these words
my blood curdled in my veins; for, imagine, La Lorraine, that this woman who is with my husband--it
makes me shudder to say it, but--"

"Ah! yes, she is a real monster."

"'Take Catharine away!' I answered to Duport: 'never!' 'Now,' said my husband, whose lips were
already white with rage,'do not provoke me, or I'll knock you down!' Then he took my child
by the arm, saying, Come with me, Catharine.' The poor little thing threw her arms around my
neck; bursting into tears, she cried, 'I wish to stay with mamma!' Seeing this, Duport became
furious: he tore my child from me, giving me a blow with his fist, which knocked me down; and
once down--but, do you see, La Lorraine," said poor Jeanne, interrupting herself, "it is very
certain he would not have been so cruel, except he had been drinking in fine, he trampled upon
me, loading me with curses."

"How bad he must be!"

"My poor children fell on their knees, begging for mercy; Catharine also. Then he said to my
daughter, swearing like a madman, 'If you do not come with me, I will finish the job with your
mother!' I vomited blood. I felt myself half dead; but I cried to Catharine, 'Rather let him
kill me! but do not follow your father!' 'Will you not be silent, then?' said Duport, giving
me another blow, which made me lose all consciousness."

"What misery! what misery!"

"When I came to myself I found my two little boys beside me weeping."

"And your daughter?"

"Gone!" cried the poor mother, sobbing convulsively; "yes, gone! My other children told me
that their father had struck her, threatening to take what life I had remaining on the spot.
Then, what could you expect? the poor child was bewildered; she threw herself upon me for a
last embrace, kissed her little brothers, and then my husband carried her off! Ah! that bad
woman waited for them at the door, I am sure!"

"And could you not complain to the police?"

"At first I could think of nothing but Catharine's departure, but I soon felt great pains all
over my body, I could not walk. Alas! what I had so much dreaded arrived. Yes--I had said to
my brother, 'Some day my husband will beat me so hard--so hard, that I shall be obliged to
go to a hospital. Then, my children, what will become of them?' And now here I am, at the hospital,
and I say, What will become of my children?"

"But is there not any justice, then, my God! for the poor?"

"Too dear! too dear for us, as my brother said," answered Jeanne Duport, with bitterness. "My
neighbors went to seek the police, they came: it was painful for me to denounce Duport, but
on account of my daughter it was necessary. I said only that, in a quarrel I had with him about
taking away my daughter, he had pushed me; that it was nothing, but that I wanted my daughter
back again."

"And what did he reply?"

