"Ah, poor Alick," pursued his sister, "you always were a discreet youth; but to be connected
with such a union of learning, social science, and homeaopathy, soared beyond my utmost ambition.
I suppose the wedding tour--supposing the happy event to take place--will be through a series
of model schools and hospitals, ending in Hanwell."

"No," said Alick, equally coolly, "to the Dutch reformatory, and the Swiss cretin asylum."

She was exceedingly tickled at his readiness, and proceeded in a pretended sentimental tone,
"I am glad you have revealed the secrets of your breast. I saw there was a powerful attraction
and that you were no longer your own, but my views were humbler. I thought the profound respect
with which you breathed the name of Avonmouth, was due to the revival of the old predilection
for our sweet little--"

"Hush, Bessie," said her brother, roused for the first time into sternness, "this is more than
nonsense. One word more of this, and you will cut me off from my greatest rest and pleasure."

"From the lawn where croquet waits his approbation," was on Bessie's tongue, but she did not
say it. There were moments when she stood in fear of her brother. He paused, and as if perceiving
that his vehemence was in itself suspicious, added, "Remember, I never met her from seven years
old till after her marriage. She has been the kindest of friends in right of our fathers' old
friendship. You know how her mother nursed me, and the sister she was to me. And Bessie, if
your selfishness--I wish I could call it thoughtlessness--involves her innocent simplicity
in any scrape, derogatory to what is becoming her situation, I shall find it very hard to forgive
you, and harder still to forgive myself for letting you come here."

Bessie pouted for a moment, but her sweetness and good humour were never away. "There, you
have given your wicked little sister a screed," she said, looking insinuatingly up at him.
"Just as if I did not think her a darling, and would not for the world do anything to spoil
her. Have not I been leading the most exemplary life, talking systems and visiting cottages
with Rachel and playing with the boys, and singing with the clergyman; and here am I pounced
on, as if I were come to be the serpent in this anti-croquet paradise."

"Only a warning, Bessie."

"You'll be better now you have had it out. I've seen you suppressing it all this time, for
fear of frightening me away."

Every one knows how the afternoon croquet match on the Myrtlewood Lawn became an institution,
though with some variation in the observers thereof, owing to the exigencies of calls, rides,
and Ermine Williams's drive, which Lady Temple took care should happen at least twice a week.
The most constant votaries of the mallet and hoop were, of course, the two elder boys, the
next pair being distant worshippers only now and then admitted by special favour, but the ardour
of their mother even exceeded that of Bessie Keith, and it was always a disappointment to her
if she were prevented from playing. Grace and Alison Williams frequently took their share with
enjoyment, though not with the same devotion, and visitors, civil and military, also often
did their part, but the most fervent of all these was Mr. Touchett. Ever since that call of
his, when, after long impatience of his shy jerks of conversation and incapacity of taking
leave, Miss Keith had exclaimed, "Did you ever play at croquet? do come, and we will teach
you," he had been its most assiduous student. The first instructions led to an appointment
for more, one contest to another, and the curate was becoming almost as regular a croquet player
as Conrade himself, not conversing much but sure to be in his place; and showing a dexterity
and precision that always made Lady Temple pleased to have him on her side, and exclaim with
delight at his hits as a public benefit to the cause, or thank him with real gratitude when
he croqued her or one of her sons out of a difficulty.

Indeed that little lawn at Myrtlewood was a battle-field, of which Alison used to carry her
sister amusing and characteristic sketches. The two leading players were Miss Keith and Mr.
Touchett, who alone had any idea of tactics; but what she did by intuition, sleight of hand
or experience, he effected by calculation and generalship, and even when Conrade claimed the
command of his own side, the suggestions of the curate really guided the party. Conrade was
a sort of Murat on the croquet field, bold, dashing, often making wonderful hits, but uncertain,
and only gradually learning to act in combination. Alison was a sure-handed, skilful hitter,
but did not aspire to leadership. Mamma tried to do whatever her boys commanded, and often
did it by a sort of dainty dexterity, when her exultation, was a very pretty sight, nor was
Grace's lady-like skill contemptible, but having Francis as an ally was like giving a castle;
and he was always placed on the other side from Conrade, as it was quite certain that he would
do the very reverse of whatever his brother advised. Now and then invitations were given for
Rose Williams to join the game, but her aunts never accepted them. Ermine had long ago made
up her mind against intimacies between her niece and any pupils of Alison's, sure that though
starts of pleasure might result, they would be at the cost of ruffling, and, perhaps, perturbing
the child's even stream of happiness--even girl-friendships might have been of doubtful effect
where circumstances were so unequal; but Lady Temple's household of boys appeared to Ermine
by no means a desirable sphere for her child to be either teased or courted in. Violetta, Colinette,
and Augustus were safer comrades, and Rose continued to find them sufficient, varied with the
rare delight of now and then sharing her aunt's drive, and brightened by many a kind message
in Colonel Keith's letters to her aunt, nay, occasionally a small letter to herself, or an
enclosure of some pretty photograph for her much-loved scrap book, or some article for Colinette's
use, sometimes even a new book! She was never forgotten in his letters, and Ermine smiled her
strange pensive smile of amusement at his wooing of the unconscious Rose.

CHAPTER X. THE PHILANTHROPIST.

 "Scorn not the smallness of daily endeavour,
  Let the great meaning ennoble it ever,
  Droop not o'er efforts expended in vain,
  Work, as believing, that labour is gain."
                              Queen Isabel, &c. by S. M.

The sturdy recusant against Myrtlewood croquet continued to be Rachel Curtis, and yet it was
not a testimony against the game so much as real want of time for it. She was always full of
occupation, even while her active mind craved for more definite and extended labour; and when
she came upon the field of strategy, it was always either with some business before her, or
else so late that the champions were only assisting their several lags to bring the battle
to an end.

If there had been a will there would have been a way, but, as she said, she saw enough to perceive
that proficiency could only be attained at the cost of much time and study, and she did not
choose to be inferior and mediocre. Also, she found occupations open to her elsewhere that
had long been closed or rendered unpleasant. Mr. Touchett had become wonderfully pacific and
obliging of late, as if the lawn tactics absorbed his propensities for offence and defence,
he really seemed obliged for one or two bits of parish work that she attended to; finding that
between him and his staff of young ladies they were getting omitted. Somehow, too, an unaccountable
blight was passing over the activity of those curatolatresses, as Rachel had been wont to call
them; they were less frequently to be met with popping out of the schools and cottages, and
Rachel, who knew well all the real poor, though refusing the bonds of a district, was continually
detecting omissions which she more often supplied than reported. There was even a smaller sprinkling
at the weekly services, and the odd thing was that the curate never seemed to remark or be
distressed by the change, or if any one spoke of the thin congregation he would say, winter
was the Avonmouth season, which was true enough, but the defaulters were mostly his own peculiar
followers, the female youth of the professional and mercantile population.

Rachel did not trouble herself about the cause of all this, indeed she was too much occupied
with the gradual gliding into somewhat of her original activity and importance in the field
thus left open to her. None the less, however, did she feel the burden of life's problems;
the intercourse she had enjoyed with Colonel Keith had excited her for a time, but in the reaction,
the old feelings returned painfully that the times were out of joint; the heavens above became
obscure and misty as before, the dark places of the earth looked darker than ever, and those
who lived at ease seemed to be employed either in sport upon the outside of the dungeon where
the captives groaned, or in obstructing the way of those who would fain have plunged in to
the rescue.

Her new acquaintance, Mr. Mauleverer, was an example of such prevention, which weighed much
on her mind. He had been perfectly unobtrusive, but Mrs. Curtis meeting him on the second day
of his sketching, had naturally looked at his drawing, and admired it so much that she brought
her daughters to see it when in course of completion the next day. He had then asked whether
there would be any objection to his making use of the sketches in the way of remunerative sale.
Mrs. Curtis looked rather taken aback, it hardly agreed with her exclusive notions of privacy,
and he at once apologized with such humility that she was touched, and felt herself doing him
a wrong, whilst Rachel was angry at her scruple, yet uncomfortably thought of "that landscape
painter," then said in her decided way, "you did not mean to object, mother?"

"Oh, not for a moment, pray don't think of it," returned Mr. Mauleverer, in haste. "I would
not think of the intrusion. It is only that these poor trifles are steps to one of the few
means by which I can still hope to do even a little for my fellow creatures; the greatest solace
that remains to me."

"My mother did not mean to prevent anything," said Rachel eagerly; "least of all any means
of doing good."

"Indeed, I cannot but be aware that Miss Curtis is the last individual who would do so, except
indeed by the good works she herself absorbs."

"You are too good, sir," returned Mrs. Curtis; "I am sure I did not mean to object to anything
for good. If it is for a charity, I am sure some of our friends would be very glad to take
some sketches of our scenery; they have been begging me this long time to have it photographed.
I should like to have that drawing myself, it would please your aunt so much, my dear, if we
sent it to her."

Mr. Mauleverer bowed, but Rachel was not sure whether he had not been insulted.

Next day he left at the door the drawing handsomely mounted, and looking so grand and meritorious
that poor Mrs. Curtis became much troubled in mind whether its proper price might not be five
or even ten guineas, instead of the one for which she had mentally bargained, or if this might
not be the beginning of a series; "which would be quite another thing, you know, my dear."

Rachel offered to go and talk to the artist, who was sketching in full view from the windows,
and find out what value he set upon it.

"Perhaps, but I don't know, my dear. Won't it be odd? Had you not better wait till Grace comes
in, or till I can come down with you?"

"No need at all, mother, I can do it much better alone, and at my age--"

So Rachel took a parasol and stepped out, looked at the outline newly produced, thanked and
praised the drawing that had been received, adding that her mother would be glad to know what
price Mr. Mauleverer set upon it. She was met by a profession of ignorance of its value, and
of readiness to be contented with whatever might be conferred upon his project; the one way
in which he still hoped to be of service to his fellow creatures, the one longing of his life.

"Ah!" said Rachel, greatly delighted with this congenial spirit, and as usual preferring the
affirmative to the interrogative. "I heard you had been interesting yourself about Mrs Kelland's
lace school. What a miserable system it is!"

"My inquiries have betrayed me then? It is indeed a trying spectacle."

"And to be helpless to alleviate it," continued Rachel. "Over work, low prices and middle-men
perfectly batten on the lives of our poor girls here. I have thought it over again and again,
and it is a constant burden on my mind."

"Yes, indeed. The effects of modern civilization are a constant burden on the compassion of
every highly constituted nature."

"The only means that seems to me likely to mitigate the evil," continued Rachel, charmed at
having the most patient listener who had ever fallen to her lot, "would be to commence an establishment
where some fresh trades might be taught, so as to lessen the glut of the market, and to remove
the workers that are forced to undersell one another, and thus oblige the buyers to give a
fairly remunerative price."

"Precisely my own views. To commence an establishment that would drain off the superfluous
labour, and relieve the oppressed, raising the whole tone of female employment."

"And this is the project you meant?"

"And in which, for the first time, I begin to hope for success, if it can only receive the
patronage of some person of influence."

"Oh, anything I can do!" exclaimed Rachel, infinitely rejoiced. "It is the very thing I have
been longing for for years. What, you would form a sort of industrial school, where the children
could be taught some remunerative labour, and it might soon be almost self-supporting?"

"Exactly; the first establishment is the difficulty, for which I have been endeavouring to
put a few mites together."

"Every one would subscribe for such a purpose!" exclaimed Rachel.

"You speak from your own generous nature, Miss Curtis; but the world would require patronesses
to recommend."

"There could be no difficulty about that!" exclaimed Rachel; but at this moment she saw the
Myrtlewood pony carriage coming to the door, and remembering that she had undertaken to drive
out Ermine Williams in it, she was obliged to break off the conversation, with an eager entreaty
that Mr. Mauleverer would draw up an account of his plan, and bring it to her the next day,
when she would give her opinion on it, and consider of the means.

"My dear," said her mother, on her return, "how long you have been; and what am I to give for
the water-colour?"

"Oh, I forgot all about the water-colour; but never mind what we give, mamma, it is all to
go to an asylum for educating poor girls, and giving them some resource beyond that weary lace-making--the
very thing I have always longed for. He is coming to settle it all with me to-morrow, and then
we will arrange what to give."

"Indeed, my dear, I hope it will be something well managed. I think if it were not for those
middle-men, lace-making would not be so bad. But you must not keep poor Miss Williams waiting."

Ermine had never seen Rachael in such high spirits as when they set out through the network
of lanes, describing her own exceeding delight in the door thus opening for the relief of the
suffering over which she had long grieved, and launching out into the details of the future
good that was to be achieved. At last Ermine asked what Rachel knew of the proposer.

"Captain Keith, heard he was a distinguished professor and essayist."

"Then I wonder we have not heard his name," said Ermine. "It is a remarkable one; one might
look in the 'Clergy List' at Villars's."

"Villars called him a clerical gentleman," mused Rachel.

"Then you would be sure to be able to find out something about him before committing yourself."

"I can see what he is," said Rachel, "a very sensible, accomplished man, and a great deal more;
not exactly a finished gentleman. But that is no objection to his doing a great work."

"None at all," said Ermine, smiling; "but please forgive me. We have suffered so much from
trusting too implicitly, that I never can think it safe to be satisfied without thorough knowledge
of a person's antecedents."

"Of course," said Rachel, "I shall do nothing without inquiry. I will find out all about him,
but I cannot see any opening for distrust. Schemes of charity are not compatible with self-seeking
and dishonesty."

"But did I not hear something about opinions?"

"Oh, as to that, it was only Villars. Besides, you are a clergyman's daughter, and your views
have a different colouring from mine. Modern research has introduced so many variations of
thought, that no good work would be done at all if we required of our fellow-labourers perfect
similarity of speculative belief."

"Yet suppose he undertook to teach others?"

"The simple outlines of universal doctrine and morality which are required by poor children
are not affected by the variations to which investigation conducts minds of more scope."

"I am afraid such variations may often reach the foundation."

"Now, Miss Williams, I am sure you must often have heard it observed how when it comes to real
practical simple teaching of uninstructed people, villagers or may be heathens, the details
of party difference melt away, and people find themselves in accordance."

"True, but there I think party differences in the Church, and even the variations between Christian
sects are concerned, both being different ways of viewing the same truth. These may, like the
knights in the old fable, find that both were right about the shield, both have the same foundation.
But where the foundation is not the same, the results of the teaching will not agree."

"Every one agrees as to morality."

"Yes, but do all give a motive sufficient to enforce the self-denial that morality entails?
Nay, do they show the way to the spiritual strength needful to the very power of being moral?"

"That is begging the question. The full argument is whether the full church, say Christian
system, exactly as you, as we hold it, is needful to the perfection of moral observance. I
don't say whether I assent, but the present question is whether the child's present belief
and practice need be affected by its teacher's dogmatic or undogmatic system."

"The system for life is generally formed in childhood. Harvest depends on seed time."

"And after all," added Rachel, "we have no notion whether this poor man be not precisely of
your own opinions, and from their fruits I am sure you ought to claim them."

"Their blossoms if you please," laughed Ermine. "We have not seen their fruits yet."

"And I shall take care the fruits are not nipped with the blight of suspicion," said Rachel,
good-humouredly.

However, after driving Ermine home, and seeing her lifted out and carried into the house by
her sister, Rachel did send the carriage back by the groom and betake herself to Villars's
shop, where she asked for a sight of the "Clergy List." The name of Mauleverer caught her eye,
but only one instance of it appeared, and he was a cathedral canon, his presentation dated
in 1832, the time at which, judging from appearances, the object of her search might have been
born; besides, he rejoiced in the simple name of Thomas. But Rachel's search was brought to
an abrupt conclusion by the issue of Mr. Mauleverer himself from the reading-room within the
shop. He bowed and passed by, but Rachel for the life of her could not hinder a burning colour
from spreading to the very tips of her ears; so certain did she feel that she was insulting
him by her researches, and that he perceived them. She felt absolutely ashamed to see him the
next day, and even in her dreams was revolving speeches that might prove that though cautious
and clear-sighted, she was neither suspicious nor narrow-minded.

He came when some morning visitors were at the Homestead, prosy neighbours whose calls were
always a penance to Rachel, and the butler, either from the manner of the inquiry or not regarding
him as drawing-room company, put him into the dining-room and announced, "Mr. Mauleverer to
see Miss Rachel." Up jumped Miss Rachel, with "You'll excuse me, it is on business;" and went
off highly satisfied that "the mother" was hindered by politeness from making any attempt at
chaperonage either personally or through Grace, so unnecessary at her age, for since Colonel
Keith's departure, Rachel's age had begun to grow on her again. She held out her hand as if
to atone for her search, but she found at once that it had been remarked.

"You were doing me the honour to look for my name in the 'Clergy List,' Miss Curtis," he said.

"Yes, one is apt--," faltered Rachel, decidedly out of countenance.

"I quite appreciate the motive. It is exactly in accord with Miss Curtis's prudence and good
sense. I should wish to be fully explicit before any arrangements are made. I am unhappily
not in orders, Miss Curtis. I know your liberality will regard the cause with leniency."

"Indeed," said Rachel, sufficiently restored to recall one of her premeditated reassurances.
"I can fully appreciate any reluctance to become stringently bound to dogmatic enunciations,
before the full powers of the intellect have examined into them."

"You have expressed it exactly, Miss Curtis. Without denying an iota of them, I may be allowed
to regret that our formularies are too technical for a thoughtful mind in the present age."

"Many have found it so," returned Rachel, thoughtfully, "who only needed patience to permit
their convictions to ripen. Then I understand you, it was a rejection on negative not positive
grounds?"

"Precisely; I do not murmur, but it has been the blight of my life."

"And yet," said Rachel, consolingly, "it may enable you to work with more freedom."

"Since you encourage me to believe so, Miss Curtis, I will hope it, but I have met with much
suspicion."

"I can well believe it," said Rachel; "even some of the most superior persons refuse to lay
their hands to any task unless they are certified of the religious opinions of their coadjutors,
which seems to me like a mason's refusing to work at a wall with a man who liked Greek architecture
when he preferred Gothic!"

If Rachel had been talking to Ermine she might have been asked whether the dissimilarity might
not be in the foundations, or in the tempering of the mortar, but Mr. Mauleverer only commended
her liberal spirit, and she thought it high time to turn from this subject to the immediate
one in hand. He had wished to discuss the plan with her, he said, before drawing it up, and
in effect she had cogitated so much upon it that her ideas came forth with more than her usual
fluency and sententiousness. The scheme was that an asylum should be opened under the superintendence
of Mr. Mauleverer himself, in which young girls might be placed to learn handicrafts that might
secure their livelihood, in especial, perhaps, wood engraving and printing. It might even be
possible, in time, to render the whole self-supporting, suppose by the publication of a little
illustrated periodical, the materials for which might be supplied by those interested in the
institution.

If anything could add to Rachel's delight it was this last proposition. In all truth and candour,
the relief to the victims to lace-making was her primary object, far before all besides, and
the longing desire of her heart for years seemed about to be fulfilled; but a domestic magazine,
an outlet to all the essays on Curatocult, on Helplessness, on Female Folly, and Female Rights,
was a development of the plan beyond her wildest hopes! No dull editor to hamper, reject or
curtail! She should be as happy, and as well able to expand as the Invalid herself.

Mr. Mauleverer had brought a large packet of letters with him, in all manner of hands. There
were some testimonials from a German university, and letters from German professors in a compromise
between English and German hand, looking impossible to read, also the neat writing and thin
wavy water-marked paper of American professors and philanthropists in high commendation of
his ability and his scheme, and a few others that he said were of too private a nature to do
more than show Miss Curtis in confidence, but on which she recognised some distinguished names
of persons interested in Social Science. She would not wound his feelings by too close an inquiry,
but she felt armed at all points against cavillers. Really, she began to think, it was a great
pity Colonel Keith should cross her path again, she had so much on her hands that it would
be a public misfortune if any one man's private domestic love should monopolize her; and yet,
such was this foolish world, the Honourable Mrs. Colin Keith would be a more esteemed lady
patroness than Miss Rachel Curtis, though the Curtises had been lords of the soil for many
generations, and Colonel Keith was a mere soldier of fortune.

One disappointment Rachel had, namely, that Mr. Mauleverer announced that he was about to return
to St. Herbert's, the very large and fashionable watering-place in the next indentation of
the coast. He had duties there, he said, and he had only come to Avonmouth for a brief holiday,
a holiday that was to result in such happy effects. He lived in an exceedingly retired way,
he said, being desirous of saving his small private means for his great object, and he gave
Rachel his address at the chief printseller's of the place, where his letters were left for
him, while he made excursions from time to time to study the picturesque, and to give lectures
on behalf of philanthropical subjects. He offered such a lecture at Avonmouth, but Mr. Touchett
would not lend either school-room, and space was nowhere else available. In the meantime a
prospectus was drawn up, which Rachel undertook to get printed at Villars's, and to send about
to all her friends, since a subscription in hand was the first desideratum.

Never since she had grown up to be a thinking woman had Rachel been so happy as with this outlet
to her activity and powers of managing, "the good time coming at last." Eagerly she claimed
sympathy, names and subscriptions. Her own immediate circle was always easily under her influence,
and Lady Temple, and Mrs. Curtis supplied the dignity of lady patronesses; Bessie Keith was
immensely diverted at the development of "that landscape painter," and took every opportunity
of impressing on Rachel that all was the result of her summons to the rescue. Ermine wished
Rachel had found out who was the bishop's chaplain who rejected him, but allowed that it would
have been an awkward question to ask, and also she wondered if he were a university man; but
Mr. Touchett had been at a Hall, and never knew anybody, besides being so firmly convinced
that Mr. Mauleverer was a pestiferous heretic, that no one, except Lady Temple, could have
obtained a patient answer from him on that head--and even with her he went the length of a
regret that she had given the sanction of her name to an undertaking by a person of whose history
and principles nothing satisfactory was known. "Oh!" said Fanny, with her sweet look of asking
pardon, "I am so sorry you think so; Rachel wished it so much, and it seems such a nice thing
for the poor children."

"Indeed," said Mr. Touchett, well nigh disarmed by the look, "I am quite sensible of the kindness
of all you do, I only ventured to wish there had been a little more delay, that we were more
certain about this person."

"When Colonel Keith comes back he will find out all about him, I am sure," said Fanny, and
Mr. Touchett, to whom seemed to have been transferred Rachel's dislike to the constant quoting
of Colonel Keith, said no more.

The immediate neighbourhood did not very readily respond to the appeal to it in behalf of the
lace-makers. People who did not look into the circumstances of their neighbours thought lace
furnished a good trade, and by no means wished to enhance its price; people who did care for
the poor had charities of their own, nor was Rachel Curtis popular enough to obtain support
for her own sake; a few five-pound notes, and a scanty supply of guineas and half-guineas from
people who were ready at any cost to buy off her vehement eyes and voice was all she could
obtain, and with a subscription of twenty pounds each from her mother, Lady Temple, and Grace,
and all that she could scrape together of her own, hardly seemed sufficient to meet the first
expenses, and how would the future be provided for? She calculated how much she could spare
out of her yearly income, and actually, to the great horror of her mother and the coachman,
sold her horse.

Bessie Keith was the purchaser. It was an expense that she could quite afford, for she and
her brother had been left very well off by their father--a prudent man, who, having been a
widower during his Indian service, had been able to live inexpensively, besides having had
a large amount of prize money. She had always had her own horse at Littleworthy, and now when
Rachel was one day lamenting to her the difficulty of raising money for the Industrial Asylum,
and declaring that she would part with her horse if she was sure of its falling into good hands,
Bessie volunteered to buy it, it was exactly what would suit her, and she should delight in
it as a reminder of dear Avonmouth. It was a pang, Rachel loved the pretty spirited creature,
and thought of her rides with the Colonel; but how weigh the pleasure of riding against the
welfare of one of those hard-worked, half-stifled little girls, and besides, it might be best
to have done with Colonel Keith now that her mission had come to find her. So the coachman
set a purposely unreasonable value upon poor Meg, and Rachel reduced the sum to what had been
given for it three years before; but Bessie begged her brother to look at the animal and give
his opinion.

"Is that what you are after?" he exclaimed.

"Indeed, Alick, I thought it was the greatest kindness I could do her; she is so very eager
about this plan, and so anxious to find poor Meg a good home."

"Purely to oblige her?"

"Of course, Alick, it was much more convenient to her than if she had had to send about to
horse-dealers or to advertise. I doubt if she could have done it at all; and it is for her
asylum, you know."

"Then give the coachman's sixty guineas at once."

"Ah, Alick, that's your infatuation!" and she put on a droll gesture of pity. "But excuse me,
where would be the fine edge of delicacy in giving a manifestly fancy price? Come and look at her."

"I never meddle with horse-dealing."

"Stuff, as if you weren't the best-mounted man in the regiment. I shall send a note to Captain
Sykes if you won't; he knows how to drive a bargain."

"And give a fancy price the other way. Well, Bessie, on one condition I'll go, and that is,
that Meg goes to Bishopsworthy the day she is yours. I won't have her eating Lady Temple's
corn, and giving her servants trouble."

"As if I should think of such a thing."

Captain Keith's estimate of the value of the steed precisely agreed with Rachel's demand of
the original price. Bessie laughed, and said there was collusion.

"Now seriously, Alick, do you think her worth so much? Isn't it a pity, when you know what
a humbug poor Rachel is going to give it to?" and she looked half comical, half saucy.

"If she were going to throw it into the sea, I don't see what difference that would make."

"Ah! you are far too much interested. Nothing belonging to her can bear a vulgar price."

"Nothing belonging to me is to gain profit by her self-denial," said Alick, gravely. "You cannot
do less than give her what she gave for it, if you enter on the transaction at all."

"You mean that it would look shabby. You see we womankind never quite know the code of the
world on such matters," she said, candidly.

"There is something that makes codes unnecessary, Bessie," he said.

"Ah! I can make allowances. It is a cruel stroke. I don't wonder you can't bear to see any
one else on her palfrey; above all as a sacrifice to the landscape painter."

"Then spare my feelings, and send the mare to Bishopsworthy," said Alick, as usual too careless
of the imputation to take the trouble to rebut it or to be disconcerted.

Bessie was much tickled at his acceptance, and laughed heartily.

"To be sure," she said, "it is past concealment now. You must have been very far gone, indeed,
to have been taken in to suppose me to be making capital of her 'charitable purposes.'"

"Your acting is too like life," he said, not yet induced to laugh, and she rattled on with
her droll, sham sentimental air. "Is it the long words, Alick, or is it 'the great eyes, my
dear;' or is it--oh, yes, I know what is the great attraction--that the Homestead doesn't possess
a single spot where one could play at croquet!"

"Quite irresistible!" replied Alick, and Bessie retreated from the colloquy still not laughing
at but with him; that is, if the odd, quaint, inward mirth which only visibly lengthened his
sleepy eyes, could be called a laugh.

Next time Captain Keith rode to Avonmouth he met the riding party on the road, Bessie upon
Rachel's mare, and it appeared that Lady Temple had considered it so dreadful that Meg should
not share her hospitality, that it had been quite impossible to send her away. "So, Alick,
your feelings must endure the dreadful spectacle."

Meanwhile Rachel was hard at work with the subscribers to the "Christian Knowledge Society."
Beginning with the A's, and working down a page a day, she sent every member a statement of
the wrongs of the lacemakers, and the plans of the industrial establishment, at a vast expense
of stamps; but then, as she calculated, one pound thus gained paid for two hundred and forty
fruitless letters.

"And pray," said Alick, who had ridden on to call at the Homestead, "how do you reconcile yourself
to the temptation to the postmen?"

"They don't see what my letters are about?"

"They must be dull postmen if they don't remark on the shower of envelopes that pass through
their hands--ominous money-letters, all with the same address, and no detection remember. You
don't know who will answer and who will not."

"I never thought of that," said Rachel; "but risks must be run when any great purpose is in hand."

"The corruption of one postman versus the rescue of--how many children make a postman?" asked
Captain Keith, with his grave, considering look.

"The postman would be corrupt already," said Grace, as Rachel thought the last speech too mocking
to be worthy of reply, and went on picking up her letters.

"There is another objection," added Captain Keith, as he watched her busy fingers. "Have you
considered how you are frightening people out of the society? It is enough to make one only
subscribe as Michael Miserly or as Simon Skinflint, or something equally uninviting to applications."

"I shall ask you to subscribe by both names!" said Rachel, readily. "How much for Simon Skinflint?"

"Ten pounds. Stop--when Mr. Mauleverer gives him a reference."

"That's ungenerous. Will Michael Miserly make up for it?"

"Yes, when the first year's accounts have been audited."

"Ah! those who have no faith to make a venture can never effect any good."

"You evidently build on a great amount of faith from the public. How do you induce them to
believe--do you write in your own name?"

"No, it makes mamma unhappy. I was going to put R. C., but Grace said people would think it
meant Roman Catholic. Your sister thought I had better put the initials of Female Union for
Lacemaker's Employment."

"You don't mean that Bessie persuaded you to put that?" exclaimed Alick Keith, more nearly
starting up than Rachel had ever seen him.

"Yes. There is no objection, is there?"

"Oh, Rachel, Rachel, how could we have helped thinking of it?" cried Grace, nearly in a state
of suffocation.

Rachel held up her printed appeal, where subscriptions were invited to the address of F. U.
L. E., the Homestead, Avonmouth.

"Miss Curtis, though you are not Scottish, you ought to be well read in Walter Scott."

"I have thought it waste of time to read incorrect pictures of pseudo-chivalry since I have
been grown up," said Rachel. "But that has nothing to do with it."

"Ah, Rachel, if we had been more up in our Scotch, we should have known what F. U. L. E. spells,"
sighed Grace.

A light broke in upon Rachel. "I am sure Bessie never could have recollected it," was her first
exclamation. "But there," she continued, too earnest to see or stumble at straws, "never mind.
It cannot be helped, and I dare say not one person in ten will be struck by it."

"Stay," said Grace, "let it be Englishwoman's Employment. See, I can very easily alter the
L into an E."

Rachel would hardly have consented, but was forced to yield to her mother's entreaties. However,
the diligent transformation at L's did not last long, for three days after a parcel was left
at the Homestead containing five thousand printed copies of the appeal, with the E rightly
inserted. Bessie laughed, and did not disavow the half reluctant thanks for this compensation
for her inadvertence or mischief, whichever it might be, laughing the more at Rachel's somewhat
ungrateful confession that she had rather the cost had gone into a subscription for the F.
U. E. E. As Bessie said to herself, it was much better and more agreeable for all parties that
it should so stand, and she would consider herself in debt to Alick for the amount. Indeed,
she fully expected him to send her in the bill, but in the meantime not one word was uttered
between the brother and sister on the subject. They understood one another too well to spend
useless words.

Contrary to most expectation, there was result enough from Rachel's solicitations to serve
as justification for the outlay in stamps. The very number of such missives that fly about
the world proves that there must be a great amount of uninquiring benevolence to render the
speculation anything but desperate, and Rachel met with very tolerable success. Mr. Mauleverer
called about once a week to report progress on his side, and, in his character of treasurer,
to take charge of the sums that began to accumulate. But Rachel had heard so much on all sides
of the need of caution in dealing with one so entirely a stranger, that she resolved that no
one should blame her for imprudence, and therefore retained in her own name, in the Avoncester
Bank, all the sums that she received. Mr. Mauleverer declared himself quite contented with
this arrangement, and eagerly anticipated the apologies that Rachel was ashamed even to make
to him.

Enough was collected to justify a beginning on a small scale. A house was to be taken where
Mr. Mauleverer and a matron would receive the first pupils, teach them wood engraving, and
prepare the earlier numbers of the magazine. When a little more progress had been made, the
purchase of a printing-press might be afforded, and it might be struck off by the girls themselves,
but in the meantime they must be dependent on the regular printer. On this account Mr. Mauleverer
thought it best to open the establishment, not at Avonmouth, but at St. Herbert's, where he
had acquaintance that would facilitate the undertaking.

Rachel was much disappointed. To be in and out constantly, daily teaching and watching the
girls, and encouraging them by learning the employment herself, had been an essential portion
of her vision. She had even in one of her most generous moods proposed to share the delight
with the Williamses, and asked Ermine if she would not, if all things suited, become the resident
matron. However, Mr. Mauleverer said that there was an individual of humbler rank, the widow
of a National Schoolmaster, so anxious to devote herself to the work, that he had promised
she should share it whenever he was in a condition to set the asylum on foot; and he assured
Rachel that she would find this person perfectly amenable to all her views, and ready to work
under her. He brought letters in high praise of the late school master, and recommendations
of his widow from the clergyman of the parish where they had lived; and place and name being
both in the "Clergy List," even Ermine and Alison began to feel ashamed of their incredulity,
whilst as to Grace, she had surrendered herself completely to the eager delight of finding
a happy home for the little children in whom she was interested. Grace might laugh a little
at Rachel, but in the main her trust in her sister's superiority always led her judgment, and
in the absence of Colonel Keith, Fanny was equally willing to let Rachel think for her when
her own children were not concerned.

Rachel did not give up her hopes of fixing the asylum near her till after a considerable effort
to get a house for it at Avonmouth, but this was far from easy. The Curtises' unwillingness
to part with land for building purposes enhanced the price of houses, and in autumn and winter
the place was at its fullest, so that she could not even rent a house but at a ruinous price.
It would be the best way to build on Homestead land, but this would be impracticable until
spring, even if means were forthcoming, as Rachel resolved they should be, and in the meantime
she was obliged to acquiesce in Mr. Mauleverer's assurance that a small house in an overbuilt
portion of St. Norbert's would be more eligible than one in some inland parish. Anything was
better than delay. Mr. Mauleverer was to superintend from his lodgings.

Rachel went with Grace and her mother to St. Norbert's, and inspected the house, an ordinary
cheap one, built to supply lodgings for the more economical class of visitors. It was not altogether
what Rachel wished, but must serve till she could build, and perhaps it would be best to form
her experience before her plans. Mr. Mauleverer's own lodgings were near at hand, and he could
inspect progress. The furniture was determined upon--neat little iron beds for the dormitories,
and all that could serve for comfort and even pleasure, for both Mr. Mauleverer and Rachel
were strong against making the place bare and workhouse-like, insulting poverty and dulling
the spirit.

Grace suggested communication with the clergyman of the parish; but the North Hill turned out
not to belong to St. Norbert's proper, being a part of a great moorland parish, whose focus
was twelve miles off. A district was in course of formation, and a church was to be built;
but in the meantime the new houses were practically almost pastorless, and the children and
their matron must take their chance on the free seats of one of the churches of St. Norbert's.
The staff of clergy there were so busy that no one liked to add extra parochial work to their
necessary duties, and there was not sufficient acquaintance with them to judge how they would
view Mr. Mauleverer's peculiarities. Clerical interference was just what Rachel said she did
not want; it was an escape that she did not call it meddling.

One bit of patronage at least she could exercise; a married pair of former Homestead servants
had set up a fuel store at St. Norbert's, receiving coal from the ships, and retailing it.
They were to supply the F. U. E. E. with wood, coal, and potatoes; and this was a great ingredient
in Mrs. Curtis's toleration. The mother liked anything that brought custom to Rossitur and Susan.

The establishment was at present to consist of three children: the funds were not sufficient
for more. One was the child of the matron, and the other two were Lovedy Kelland and the daughter
of a widow in ill health, whose family were looking very lean and ill cared for. Mrs. Kelland
was very unwilling to give Lovedy up, she had always looked to receiving the apprentice fee
from the Burnaby bargain for her as soon as the child was fourteen, and she had a strong prejudice
against any possible disturbance to the lace trade; but winter would soon come and her sale
was uncertain; her best profit was so dependent on Homestead agency that it was impolitic to
offend Miss Curtis; and, moreover, Lovedy was so excited by the idea of learning to make pictures
to books that she forgot all the lace dexterity she had ever learnt, and spoilt more than she
made, so that Mrs. Kelland was reduced to accept the kind proposal that Lovedy should be Lady
Temple's nominee, and be maintained, by her at the F. U. E. E. at seven shillings a week.

Fanny, however, asked the clergyman's consent first, telling him, with her sweet, earnest smile,
how sorry she was for the little girl, and showing him the high testimonials to Mrs. Rawlins.
He owned that they were all that could be wished, and even said at her request that he would
talk to Mr. Mauleverer. What the talk amounted to they never knew; but when Fanny said "she
hoped he had found nothing unsatisfactory, the poor man must be so glad to be of use;" Mr.
Touchett replied with, "Indeed, it is an unfortunate situation;" and his opposition might therefore
be considered as suspended.

"Of course," cried Bessie, "we know by what witchery!" But Alison Williams, her listener, turned
on her such great eyes of wilful want of comprehension, that she held her peace.

Rachel and Grace united in sending Mary Morris, the other child; they really could do nothing
more, so heavily had their means been drawn upon for the first expenses; but Rachel trusted
to do more for the future, and resolved that her dress should henceforth cost no more than
Alison Williams's; indeed, she went through a series of assertions by way of examining Alison
on the expenses of her wardrobe.

The house was taken from Michaelmas, and a few days after, the two little victims, as Bessie
laughingly called them, were taken over to St. Norbert's in the Homestead carriage, Lady Temple
chaperoning the three young ladies to see the inauguration, and the height of Rachel's glory.

They were received by Mr. Mauleverer at the door, and slightly in the rear saw the matron,
Mrs. Rawlins, a handsome pale woman, younger than they expected, but whose weeds made Fanny
warm to her directly; but she was shy and retiring, and could not be drawn into conversation;
and her little Alice was only three years old, much younger than Rachel had expected as a pupil,
but a very pretty creature with great black eyes.

Tea and cake were provided by way of an inauguration feast, and the three little girls sat
up in an atmosphere of good cheer, strongly suggestive of school feasts, and were left in the
midst, with many promises of being good, a matter that Lovedy seemed to think would be very
easy in this happy place, with no lace to make.

Mrs. Rawlins, whose husband had been a trained schoolmaster, was to take the children to church,
and attend to their religious instruction; indeed, Mr. Mauleverer was most anxious on this
head, and as Rachel already knew the scruples that withheld him from ordination were only upon
the absolute binding himself to positive belief in minor technical points, that would never
come in the way of young children.

Altogether, the neat freshness of the room, the urbanity of Mr. Mauleverer, the shy grief of
the matron, all left a most pleasant impression. Rachel was full of delight and triumph, and
Grace and Fanny quite enthusiastic; the latter even to the being sure that the Colonel would
be delighted, for the Colonel was already beginning to dawn on the horizon, and not alone.
He had written, in the name of his brother, to secure a cottage of gentility of about the same
calibre as Myrtlewood, newly completed by a speculator on one of the few bits of ground available
for building purposes. A name was yet wanting to it; but the day after the negotiation was
concluded, the landlord paid the delicate compliment to his first tenant by painting "Gowanbrae"
upon the gate-posts in letters of green. "Go and bray," read Bessie Keith as she passed by;
"for the sake of the chief of my name, I hope that it is not an omen of his occupations here."

The two elder boys were with her; and while Francis, slowly apprehending her meaning in part,
began to bristle up with the assurance that "Colonel Keith never brayed in his life," Conrade
caught the point with dangerous relish, and dwelt with colonial disrespect, that alarmed his
mother, on the opinion expressed by some unguarded person in his hearing, that Lord Keith was
little better than an old donkey. "He is worse than Aunt Rachel," said Conrade, meditatively,
"now she has saved Don, and keeps away from the croquet."

Meantime Rachel studied her own feelings. A few weeks ago her heart would have leapt at the
announcement; but now her mission had found her out, and she did not want to be drawn aside
from it. Colonel Keith might have many perfections, but alike as Scotsman, soldier, and High-Churchman,
he was likely to be critical of the head of the F. U. E. E., and matters had gone too far now
for her to afford to doubt, or to receive a doubting master. Moreover, it would be despicable
to be diverted from a great purpose by a courtship like any ordinary woman; nor must marriage
settlements come to interfere with her building and endowment of the asylum, and ultimate devotion
of her property thereunto. No, she would school herself into a system of quiet discouragement,
and reserve herself and her means as the nucleus of the great future establishment for maintaining
female rights of labour.

CHAPTER XI. LADY TEMPLE'S TROUBLES.

 "The pheasant in the falcon's claw,
  He scarce will yield, to please a daw."--SCOTT.

Early in the afternoon of a warm October day, the brothers arrived at Avomnouth, and ten minutes
after both were upon the lawn at Myrtlewood, where croquet was still in progress. Shouts of
delight greeted the Colonel, and very gracefully did Bessie Keith come to meet him, with the
frank confiding sweetness befitting his recent ward, the daughter of his friend. A reassuring
smile and monosyllable had scarcely time to pass between him and the governess before a flood
of tidings was poured on him by the four elder boys, while their mother was obliged to be mannerly,
and to pace leisurely along with the elder guest, and poor Mr. Touchett waited a little aloof,
hammering his own boot with his mallet, as if he found the enchanted ground failing him. But
the boys had no notion of losing their game, and vociferated an inquiry whether the Colonel
knew croquet. Yes, he had several times played with his cousins in Scotland. "Then," insisted
Conrade, "he must take mamma's place, whilst she was being devoured, and how surprised she
would be at being so helped on!"

"Not now, not to-day," he answered. "I may go to your sister, Ailie? Yes, boys, you must close
up your ranks without me."

"Then please," entreated Hubert, "take him away," pointing to the engrosser of their mother.

"Do you find elder brothers so easily disposed of, Hubert?" said the Colonel. "Do you take
Conrade away when you please?"

"I should punch him," returned Francis.

"He knows better," quoth Conrade in the same breath, both with infinite contempt for Hubert.

"And I know better," returned Colonel Keith; "never mind, boys, I'll come back in--in reasonable
time to carry him off," and he waved a gay farewell.

"Surely you wish to go too," said Bessie to Alison, "if only to relieve them of the little
girl! I'll take care of the boys. Pray go."

"Thank you," said Alison, surprised at her knowledge of the state of things, "but they are
quite hardened to Rose's presence, and I think would rather miss her."

And in fact Alison did not feel at all sure that, when stimulated by Bessie's appreciation
of their mischief, her flock might not in her absence do something that might put their mother
in despair, and make their character for naughtiness irretrievable; so Leoline and Hubert were
summoned, the one from speculations whether Lord Keith would have punched his brother, the
other from amaze that there was anything our military secretary could not do, and Conrade and
Francis were arrested in the midst of a significant contraction of the nostrils and opening
of the mouth, which would have exploded in an "eehaw" but for Bessie's valiant undertaking
to be herself and Lady Temple both at once.

Soon Colonel Keith was knocking at Ermine's door, and Rose was clinging to him, glowing and
sparkling with shy ecstasy; while, without sitting down again after her greeting, Rachel resolutely
took leave, and walked away with firm steps, ruminating on her determination not to encourage
meetings in Mackarel Lane.

"Better than I expected!" exclaimed Colonel Keith, after having ushered her to the door in
the fulness of his gratitude. "I knew it was inevitable that she should be here, but that she
should depart so fast was beyond hope!"

"Yes," said Ermine, laughing, "I woke with such a certainty that she would be here and spend
the first half hour in the F. U. E, E. that I wasted a great deal of resignation. But how are
you, Colin? You are much thinner! I am sure by Mrs. Tibbie's account you were much more ill
than you told me."

"Only ill enough to convince me that the need of avoiding a northern winter was not a fallacy,
and likewise to make Tibbie insist on coming here for fear Maister Colin should not be looked
after. It is rather a responsibility to have let her come, for she has never been farther south
than Edinburgh, but she would not be denied. So she has been to see you! I told her you would
help her to find her underlings. I thought it might be an opening for that nice little girl
who was so oppressed with lace-making."

"Ah! she has gone to learn wood-cutting at the F. U. E. E.; but I hope we have comfortably
provided Tibbie with a damsel. She made us a long visit, and told us all about Master Colin's
nursery days. Only I am afraid we did not understand half."

"Good old body," said the Colonel, in tones almost as national as Tibbie's own. "She was nursery
girl when I was the spoilt child of the house, and hers was the most homelike face that met
me. I wish she may be happy here. And you are well, Ermine?"

"Very well, those drives are so pleasant, and Lady Temple so kind! It is wonderful to think
how many unlooked-for delights have come to us; how good every one is;" and her eyes shone
with happy tears as she looked up at him, and felt that he was as much her own as ever. "And
you have brought your brother," she said; "you have been too useful to him to be spared. Is
he come to look after you or to be looked after!"

"A little of both I fancy," said the Colonel, "but I suspect he is giving me up as a bad job.
Ermine, there are ominous revivifications going on at home, and he has got himself rigged out
in London, and had his hair cut, so that he looks ten years younger."

"Do you think he has any special views!"

"He took such pains to show me the charms of the Benorchie property that I should have thought
it would have been Jessie Douglas, the heiress thereof, only coming here does not seem the
way to set about it, unless be regards this place as a bath of youth and fashion. I fancy he
has learnt enough about my health to make him think me a precarious kind of heir, and that
his views are general. I hope he may not be made a fool of, otherwise it is the best thing
that could happen to us."

"It has been a dreary uncomfortable visit, I much fear," said Ermine.

"Less so than you think. I am glad to have been able to be of use to him, and to have lived
on something like brotherly terms. We know and like each other much better than we had a chance
of doing before, and we made some pleasant visits together, but at home there are many things
on which we can never be of one mind, and I never was well enough at Gowanbrae to think of
living there permanently."

"I was sure you had been very unwell! You are better though?"

"Well, since I came into Avonmouth air," said he, "I fear nothing but cold. I am glad to have
brought him with me, since he could not stay there, for it is very lonely for him."

"Yet you said his daughter was settled close by."

"Yes; but that makes it the worse. In fact, Ermine, I did not know before what a wretched affair
he had made of his daughters' marriages. Isabel he married when she was almost a child to this
Comyn Menteith, very young too at the time, and who has turned out a good-natured, reckless,
dissipated fellow, who is making away with his property as fast as he can, and to whom Keith's
advice is like water on a duck's back. It is all rack and ruin and extravagance, a set of ill-regulated
children, and Isabel smiling and looking pretty in the midst of them, and perfectly impervious
to remonstrance. He is better out of sight of them, for it is only pain and vexation, an example
of the sort of match he likes to make. Mary, the other daughter, was the favourite, and used
to her own way, and she took it. Keith was obliged to consent so as to prevent an absolute
runaway wedding, but he has by no means forgiven her husband, and they are living on very small
means on a Government appointment in Trinidad. I believe it would be the bitterest pill to
him that either son-in-law should come in for any part of the estate."

"I thought it was entailed."

"Gowanbrae is, but as things stand at present that ends with me, and the other estates are
at his disposal."

"Then it would be very hard on the daughters not to have them."

"So hard that the death of young Alexander may have been one of the greatest disasters of my
life, as well as of poor Keith's. However, this is riding out to meet perplexities. He is most
likely to outlive me; and, moreover, may marry and put an end to the difficulty. Meantime,
till my charge is relieved, I must go and see after him, and try if I can fulfil Hubert's polite
request that I would take him away. Rosie, my woman, I have hardly spoken to you. I have some
hyacinth roots to bring you to-morrow."

In spite of these suspicions, Colonel Keith was not prepared for what met him on his return
to Myrtlewood. On opening the drawing-room door, he found Lady Temple in a low arm-chair in
an agony of crying, so that she did not hear his approach till he stood before her in consternation.
Often had he comforted her before, and now, convinced that something dreadful must have befallen
one of the children, he hastily, though tenderly, entreated her to tell him which, and what
he could do.

"Oh, no, no!" she exclaimed, starting up, and removing her handkerchief, so that he saw her
usually pale cheeks were crimson--"Oh, no," she cried, with panting breath and heaving chest.
"It is all well with them as yet. But--but--it's your brother."

He was at no loss now as to what his brother could have done, but he stood confounded, with
a sense of personal share in the offence, and his first words were--"I am very sorry. I never
thought of this."

"No, indeed," she exclaimed, "who could? It was too preposterous to be dreamt of by any one.
At his age, too, one would have thought he might have known better."

A secret sense of amusement crossed the Colonel, as he recollected that the disparity between
Fanny Curtis and Sir Stephen Temple had been far greater than that between Lady Temple and
Lord Keith, but the little gentle lady was just at present more like a fury than he had thought
possible, evidently regarding what had just passed as an insult to her husband and an attack
on the freedom of all her sons. In answer to a few sympathising words on the haste of his brother's
proceeding, she burst out again with indignation almost amusing in one so soft--"Haste! Yes!
I did think that people would have had some respect for dear, dear Sir Stephen," and her gush
of tears came with more of grief and less of violence, as if she for the first time felt herself
unprotected by her husband's name.

"I am very much concerned," he repeated, feeling sympathy safer than reasoning. "If I could
have guessed his intentions, I would have tried to spare you this; at least the suddenness
of it. I could not have guessed at such presumptuous expectations on so short an acquaintance."

"He did not expect me to answer at once," said Fanny. "He said he only meant to let me know
his hopes in coming here. And, oh, that's the worst of it! He won't believe me, though I said
more to him than I thought I could have said to anybody! I told him," said Fanny, with her
hands clasped over her knee to still her trembling, "that I cared for my dear, dear husband,
and always shall--always--and then he talked about waiting, just as if anybody could leave
off loving one's husband! And then when he wanted me to consider about my children, why then
I told him"--and her voice grew passionate again--"the more I considered, the worse it would
be for him, as if I would have my boys know me without their father's name; and, besides, he
had not been so kind to you that I should wish to let him have anything to do with them! I
am afraid I ought not to have said that," she added, returning to something of her meek softness;
"but indeed I was so angry, I did not know what I was about. I hope it will not make him angry
with you."

"Never mind me," said Colonel Keith, kindly. "Indeed, Lady Temple, it is a wonderful compliment
to you that he should have been ready to undertake such a family."

"I don't want such compliments! And, oh!" and here her eyes widened with fright, "what shall
I do? He only said my feelings did me honour, and he would be patient and convince me. Oh,
Colonel Keith, what shall I do?" and she looked almost afraid that fate and perseverance would
master her after all, and that she should be married against her will.

"You need do nothing but go on your own way, and persist in your refusal," he said in the calm
voice that always reassured her.

"Oh, but pray, pray never let him speak to me about it again!"

"Not if I can help it, and I will do my best. You are quite right, Lady Temple. I do not think
it would be at all advisable for yourself or the children, and hardly for himself," he added,
smiling. "I think the mischief must all have been done by that game at whist."

"Then I'll never play again in my life! I only thought he was an old man that wanted amusing--."
Then as one of the children peeped in at the window, and was called back--"O dear! how shall
I ever look at Conrade again, now any one has thought I could forget his father?"

"If Conrade knew it, which I trust he never will, he ought to esteem it a testimony to his mother."

"Oh, no, for it must have been my fault! I always was so childish, and when I've got my boys
with me, I can't help being happy," and the tears swelled again in her eyes. "I know I have
not been as sad and serious as my aunt thought I ought to be, and now this comes of it."

"You have been true, have acted nothing," said Colonel Keith, "and that is best of all. No
one who really knew you could mistake your feelings. No doubt that your conduct agrees better
with what would please our dear Sir Stephen than if you drooped and depressed the children."

"Oh, I am glad you say that," she said, looking up, flushed with pleasure now, and her sweet
eyes brimming over. "I have tried to think what he would like in all I have done, and you know
I can't help being proud and glad of belonging to him still; and he always told me not to be
shy and creeping into the nursery out of every one's way."

The tears were so happy now that he felt that the wound was healed, and that he might venture
to leave her, only asking first, "And now what would you like me to do? Shall I try to persuade
my brother to come away from this place?"

"Oh, but then every one would find out why, and that would be dreadful! Besides, you are only
just come. And Miss Williams--"

"Do not let that stand in your way."

"No, no. You will be here to take care of me. And his going now would make people guess; and
that would be worse than anything."

"It would. The less disturbance the better; and if you upset his plans now, he might plead
a sort of right to renew the attempt later. Quiet indifference will be more dignified and discouraging.
Indeed, I little thought to what I was exposing you. Now I hope you are going to rest, I am
sure your head is aching terribly."

She faintly smiled, and let him give her his arm to the foot of the stairs.

At first he was too indignant for any relief save walking up and down the esplanade, endeavouring
to digest the unfairness towards himself of his brother's silence upon views that would have
put their joint residence at Avonmouth on so different a footing; above all, when the Temple
family were his own peculiar charge, and when he remembered how unsuspiciously he had answered
all questions on the money matters, and told how all was left in the widow's own power. It
was the more irritating, as he knew that his displeasure would be ascribed to interested motives,
and regarded somewhat as he had seen Hubert's resentment treated when Francis teased his favourite
rabbit. Yet not only on principle, but to avoid a quarrel, and to reserve to himself such influence
as might best shield Lady Temple from further annoyance, he must school himself to meet his
brother with coolness and patience. It was not, however, without strong effort that he was
able to perceive that, from the outer point of view, one who, when a mere child, had become
the wife of an aged general, might, in her early widowhood, be supposed open to the addresses
of a man of higher rank and fewer years, and the more as it was not in her nature to look crushed
and pathetic. He, who had known her intimately throughout her married life and in her sorrow,
was aware of the quiet force of the love that had grown up with her, so entirely a thread in
her being as to crave little expression, and too reverent to be violent even in her grief.
The nature, always gentle, had recovered its balance, and the difference in years had no doubt
told in the readiness with which her spirits had recovered their cheerfulness, though her heart
remained unchanged. Still, retired as her habits were, and becoming as was her whole conduct,
Colin began to see that there had been enough of liveliness about her to lead to Lord Keith's
mistake, though not to justify his want of delicacy in the precipitation of his suit.

These reflections enabled him at length to encounter his brother with temper, and to find that,
after all, it had been more like the declaration of an intended siege than an actual summons
to surrender. Lord Keith was a less foolish and more courteous man than might have been gathered
from poor Fanny's terrified account; and all he had done was to intimate his intention of recommending
himself to her, and the view with which he had placed himself at Avonmouth; nor was he in the
slightest degree disconcerted by her vehemence, but rather entertained by it, accepting her
faithfulness to her first husband's memory as the best augury of her affection for a second.
He did not even own that he had been precipitate.

"Let her get accustomed to the idea," he said with a shrewd smile. "The very outcry she makes
against it will be all in my favour when the turn comes."

"I doubt whether you will find it so."

"All the world does not live on romance like you, man. Look on, and you will see that a pretty
young widow like her cannot fail to get into scrapes; have offers made to her, or at least
the credit of them. I'd lay you ten pounds that you are said to be engaged to her yourself
by this time, and it is no one's fault but your own that you are not. It is in the very nature
of things that she will be driven to shelter herself from the persecution, with whoever has
bided his time."

"Oh, if you prefer being accepted on such terms--"

He smiled, as if the romance of the exclamation were beneath contempt, and proceeded--"A pretty,
gracious, ladylike woman, who has seen enough of the world to know how to take her place, and
yet will be content with a quiet home. It is an introduction I thank you for, Colin."

"And pray," said Colin, the more inwardly nettled because he knew that his elder brother enjoyed
his annoyance, "what do you think of those seven slight encumbrances?"

"Oh, they are your charge," returned Lord Keith, with a twinkle in his eye. "Besides, most
of them are lads, and what with school, sea, and India, they will be easily disposed of."

"Certainly it has been so in our family," said Colin, rather hoarsely, as he thought of the
four goodly brothers who had once risen in steps between him and the Master.

"And," added Lord Keith, still without direct answer, "she is so handsomely provided for, that
you see, Colin, I could afford to give you up the Auchinvar property, that should have been
poor Archie's, and what with the farms and the moor, it would bring you in towards three hundred
a year for your housekeeping."

Colin restrained himself with difficulty, but made quiet answer. "I had rather see it settled
as a provision on Mary and her children."

Lord Keith growled something about minding his own concerns.

"That is all I desire," responded the Colonel, and therewith the conference ended. Nor was
the subject recurred to. It was observable, however, that Lord Keith was polite and even attentive
to Ermine. He called on her, sent her grouse, and though saying nothing, seemed to wish to
make it evident that his opposition was withdrawn, perhaps as no longer considering his brother's
affairs as his own, or else wishing to conciliate him. Lady Temple was not molested by any
alarming attentions from him. But for the proclamation, the state of siege might have been
unsuspected. He settled himself at the southern Gowanbrae as if he had no conquest to achieve
but that of the rheumatism, and fell rapidly into sea-side habits--his morning stroll to see
the fishing-boats come in, his afternoon ride, and evening's dinner party, or whist-club, which
latter institution disposed of him, greatly to Colin's relief. The brothers lived together
very amicably, and the younger often made himself helpful and useful to the elder, but evidently
did not feel bound to be exclusively devoted to his service and companionship. All the winter
residents and most of the neighbouring gentry quickly called at Gowanbrae, and Lord Keith,
in the leisure of his present life, liked society where he was the man of most consequence,
and readily accepted and gave invitations. Colin, whose chest would not permit him to venture
out after sunset, was a most courteous assistant host, but necessarily made fewer acquaintances,
and often went his own way, sometimes riding with his brother, but more frequently scarcely
seeing him between breakfast and twilight, and then often spending a solitary evening, which
he much preferred either to ecarte or to making talk.

The summer life had been very different from the winter one. There was much less intercourse
with the Homestead, partly from Rachel being much engrossed with the F. U. E. E., driving over
whenever the coachman would let her, to inspect progress, and spending much of her time in
sending out circulars, answering letters, and writing a tale on the distresses of Woman, and
how to help them, entitled "Am I not a Sister?" Tales were not much in Bachel's line; she despised
reading them, and did not love writing them, but she knew that she must sugar the cup for the
world, and so she diligently applied herself to the piece de resistance for the destined magazine,
heavily weighting her slender thread of story with disquisitions on economy and charity, and
meaning to land her heroines upon various industrial asylums where their lot should be far
more beatific than marriage, which was reserved for the naughty one to live unhappy in ever
after. In fact, Rachel, in her stern consistency, had made up her mind to avoid and discourage
the Colonel, and to prevent her own heart from relenting in his favour, or him from having
any opportunity of asking an explanation, and with this determination she absented herself
both from Ermine's parlour and Lady Temple's croquet ground; and if they met on the esplanade
or in a morning call, took care never to give the chance of a tete-a-tete, which he was evidently
seeking.

The croquet practice still survived. In truth, Fanny was afraid to ride lest Lord Keith should
join her, and was glad to surround herself with companions. She could not see the enemy without
a nervous trepidation, and was eager to engross herself with anybody or thing that came to
hand so as to avoid the necessity of attending to him. More than once did she linger among
her boys "to speak to Mr. Touchett," that she might avoid a ten minutes' walk with his lordship;
and for nothing was she more grateful than for the quiet and ever ready tact with which Bessie
Keith threw herself into the breach. That bright damsel was claimed by Lord Keith as a kinswoman,
and, accepting the relationship, treated him with the pretty playfulness and coquetry that
elderly men enjoy from lively young girls, and thus often effected a diversion in her friend's
favour, to the admiration both of the Colonel and of Lady Temple herself; all, however, by
intuition, for not a word had been hinted to her of what had passed during that game at croquet.
She certainly was a most winning creature; the Colonel was charmed with her conversation in
its shades between archness and good sense, and there was no one who did not look forward with
dread to the end of her visit, when after a short stay with one of her married cousins, she
must begin her residence with the blind uncle to whose establishment she, in her humility,
declared she should be such a nuisance. It was the stranger that she should think so, as she
had evidently served her apprenticeship to parish work at Bishopsworthy; she knew exactly how
to talk to poor people, and was not only at home in clerical details herself, but infused them
into Lady Temple; so that, to the extreme satisfaction of Mr. Touchett, the latter organized
a treat for the school-children, offered prizes for needlework, and once or twice even came
to listen to the singing practice when anything memorable was going forward. She was much pleased
at being helped to do what she felt to be right and kind, though hitherto she had hardly known
how to set about it, and had been puzzled and perplexed by Rachel's disapproval, and semi-contempt
of "scratching the surface" by the commonplace Sunday-school system.

CHAPTER XII. A CHANGE AT THE PARSONAGE.

"What could presumptuous hope inspire."--Rokeby.

There had been the usual foretaste of winter, rather sharp for Avonmouth, and though a trifle
to what it was in less sheltered places, quite enough to make the heliotropes sorrowful, strip
the fig-trees, and shut Colonel Keith up in the library. Then came the rain, and the result
was that the lawn of Myrtlewood became too sloppy for the most ardent devotees of croquet;
indeed, as Bessie said, the great charm of the sport was that one could not play it above eight
months in the year.

The sun came back again, and re-asserted the claim of Avonmouth to be a sort of English Mentone;
but drying the lawn was past its power, and Conrade and Francis were obliged to console themselves
by the glory of taking Bessie Keith for a long ride. They could not persuade their mother to
go with them, perhaps because she had from her nursery-window sympathized with Cyril's admiration
of the great white horse that was being led round to the door of Gowanbrae.

She said she must stay at home, and make the morning calls that the charms of croquet had led
her to neglect, and in about half an hour from that time she was announced in Miss Williams'
little parlour, and entered with a hurried, panting, almost pursued look, a frightened glance
in her eyes, and a flush on her cheek, such as to startle both Ermine and the Colonel.

"Oh!" she exclaimed, as if still too much perturbed to know quite what she was saying, "I--I
did not mean to interrupt you."

"I'm only helping Rose to change the water of her hyacinths," said Colonel Keith, withdrawing
his eyes and attention to the accommodation of the forest of white roots within the purple glass.

"I did not know you were out to-day," said Lady Temple, recovering herself a little.

"Yes, I came to claim my walking companion. Where's your hat, Rosie?"

And as the child, who was already equipped all but the little brown hat, stood by her aunt
for the few last touches to the throat of her jacket, he leant down and murmured, "I thought
he was safe out riding."

"Oh no, no, it is not that," hastily answered Lady Temple, a fresh suffusion of crimson colour
rustling over her face, and inspiring an amount of curiosity that rendered a considerable effort
of attention necessary to be as supremely charming a companion as Rose generally found him
in the walks that he made it his business to take with her.

He turned about long before Rose thought they had gone far enough, and when he re-entered the
parlour there was such an expectant look on his face that Ermine's bright eyes glittered with
merry mischief, when she sent Rose to take off her walking dress. "Well!" he said.

"Well? Colin, have you so low an opinion of the dignity of your charge as to expect her to
pour out her secrets to the first ear in her way?"

"Oh, if she has told you in confidence."

"No, she has not told me in confidence; she knew better."

"She has told you nothing?"

"Nothing!" and Ermine indulged in a fit of laughter at his discomfiture, so comical that he
could not but laugh himself, as he said, "Ah! the pleasure of disappointing me quite consoles you."

"No; the proof of the discretion of womanhood does that! You thought, because she tells all
her troubles to you, that she must needs do so to the rest of the world."

"There is little difference between telling you and me."

"That's the fault of your discretion, not of hers."

"I should like to know who has been annoying her. I suspect--"

"So do I. And when you get the confidence at first hand, you will receive it with a better
grace than if you had had a contraband foretaste."

He smiled. "I thought yours a more confidence-winning face, Ermine."

"That depends on my respect for the individual. Now I thought Lady Temple would much prefer
my looking another way, and talking about Conrade's Latin grammar, to my holding out my arms
and inviting her to pour into my tender breast what another time she had rather not know that
I knew."

"That is being an honourable woman," he said, and Rose's return ended the exchange of speculations;
but it must be confessed that at their next meeting Ermine's look of suppressed inquiry quite
compensated for her previous banter, more especially as neither had he any confidence to reveal
or conceal, only the tidings that the riders, whose coalition had justified Lady Temple's prudence,
had met Mr. Touchett wandering in the lanes in the twilight, apparently without a clear idea
of what he was doing there. And on the next evening there was quite an excitement, the curate
looked so ill, and had broken quite down when he was practising with the choir boys before
church; he had, indeed, gone safely through the services, but at school he had been entirely
at a loss as to what Sunday it was, and had still more unfortunately forgotten that to be extra
civil to Miss Villars was the only hope of retaining her services, for he had walked by her
with less attention than if she had been the meanest scholar. Nay, when his most faithful curatolatress
had offered to submit to him a design for an illumination for Christmas, he had escaped from
her with a desperate and mysterious answer that he had nothing to do with illumination, he
hoped it would be as sombre as possible.

No wonder Avonmouth was astonished, and that guesses were not confined to Mackarel Lane.

"Well, Colin," said Ermine, on the Tuesday, "I have had a first-hand confidence, though from
a different quarter. Poor Mr. Touchett came to announce his going away."

"Going!"

"Yes. In the very nick of time, it seems, Alick Keith has had a letter from his uncle's curate,
asking him to see if he could meet with a southern clergyman to exchange duties for the winter
with a London incumbent who has a delicate wife, and of course. Mr. Touchett jumped at it."

"A very good thing--a great relief."

"Yes. He said he was very anxious for work, but he had lost ground in this place within the
last few months, and he thought that he should do better in a fresh place, and that a fresh
person would answer better here, at least for a time. I am very sorry for him, I have a great
regard for him."

"Yes; but he is quite right to make a fresh beginning. Poor man! he has been quite lifted off
his feet, and entranced all this time, and his recovery will be much easier elsewhere. It was
all that unlucky croquet."

"I believe it was. I think there was at first a reverential sort of distant admiration, too
hopeless to do any one any harm, and that really might have refined him, and given him a little
of the gentleman-like tone he has always wanted. But then came the croquet, and when it grew
to be a passion it was an excuse for intimacy that it would have taken a stronger head than
his to resist."

"Under the infection of croquet fever."

"It is what my father used to say of amusements--the instant they become passions they grow
unclerical and do mischief. Now he used, though not getting on with the Curtises, to be most
successful with the second-rate people; but he has managed to offend half of them during this
unhappy mania, which, of course, they all resent as mercenary, and how he is ever to win them
back I don't know. After all, curatocult is a shallow motive--Rachel Curtis might triumph!"

"The higher style of clergyman does not govern by curatocult. I hope this one may be of that
description, as he comes through Mr. Clare. I wonder if this poor man will return?"

"Perhaps," said Ermine, with a shade of mimicry in her voice, "when Lady Temple is married
to the Colonel. There now, I have gone and told you! I did try to resolve I would not."

"And what did you say?"

"I thought it due to Lady Temple to tell him exactly how she regarded you."

"Yes, Ermine, and it is due to tell others also. I cannot go on on these terms, either here
or at Myrtlewood, unless the true state of the case is known. If you will not let me be a married
man, I must be an engaged one, either to you or to the little Banksia."

This periphrasis was needful, because Rose was curled up in a corner with a book, and her accessibility
to outward impressions was dubious. It might be partly for that reason, partly from the tone
of fixed resolve in his voice, that Ermine made answer, "As you please."

It was calmly said, with the sweet, grave, confiding smile that told how she trusted to his
judgment, and accepted his will. The look and tone brought his hand at once to press hers in
eager gratitude, but still she would not pursue this branch of the subject; she looked up to
him and said gently, but firmly, "Yes, it may be better that the true state of the case should
be known," and he felt that she thus conveyed that he must not press her further, so he let
her continue, "At first I thought it would do him good, he began pitying us so vehemently;
but when he found I did not pity myself, he was as ready to forget our troubles as--you are
to forget his," she added, catching Colin's fixed eye, more intent on herself than on her narrative.

"I beg his pardon, but there are things that come more home."

"So thought he," said Ermine.

"Did you find out," said Colin, now quite recalled, "what made him take courage?"

"When he had once come to the subject, it seemed to be a relief to tell it all out, but he
was so faltering and agitated that I did not always follow what he said. I gather, though,
that Lady Temple has used him a little as a defence from other perils."

"Yes, I have seen that."

"And Miss Keith's fun has been more encouragement than she knew; constantly summoning him to
the croquet-ground, and giving him to understand that Lady Temple liked to have him there.
Then came that unlucky day, it seems, when he found Bessie mounting her horse at the door,
and she called out that it was too wet for croquet, but Lady Temple was in the garden, and
would be glad to see him. She was going to make visits, and he walked down with her, and somehow,
in regretting the end of the croquet season, he was surprised into saying how much it had been
to him. He says she was exceedingly kind, and regretted extremely that anything should have
inspired the hope, said she should never marry again, and entreated him to forget it, then
I imagine she fled in here to put an end to it."

"She must have been much more gentle this time than she was with Keith. I had never conceived
her capable of being so furious as she was then. I am very sorry, I wish we could spare her
these things."

"I am afraid that can only be done in one way, which you are not likely at present to take,"
said Ermine with a serious mouth, but with light dancing in her eyes.

"I know no one less likely to marry again," he continued, "yet no one of whom the world is
so unlikely to believe it. Her very gentle simplicity and tenderness tell against her! Well,
the only hope now is that the poor man has not made his disappointment conspicuous enough for
her to know that it is attributed to her. It is the beginning of the fulfilment of Keith's
prediction that offers and reports will harass her into the deed!"

"There is nothing so fallacious as prophecies against second marriages, but I don't believe
they will. She is too quietly dignified for the full brunt of reports to reach her, and too
much concentrated on her children to care about them."

"Well, I have to see her to-morrow to make her sign some papers about her pension, so I shall
perhaps find out how she takes it."

He found Fanny quite her gentle composed self, as usual uncomprehending and helpless about
her business affairs, and throwing the whole burthen on him of deciding on her investments;
but in such a gracious, dependent, grateful way that he could not but take pleasure in the
office, and had no heart for the lesson he had been meditating on the need of learning to act
for herself, if she wished to do without a protector. It was not till she had obediently written
her "Frances Grace Temple" wherever her prime minister directed, that she said with a crimson
blush, "Is it true that poor Mr. Touchett is going away for the winter?"

"I believe he is even going before Sunday."

"I am very glad--I mean I am very sorry. Do you think any one knows why it is?"

"Very few are intimate enough to guess, and those who are, know you too well to think it was
otherwise than very foolish on his part."

"I don't know," said Fanny, "I think I must have been foolish too, or he never could have thought
of it. And I was so sorry for him, he seemed so much distressed."

"I do not wonder at that, when he had once allowed himself to admit the thought."

"Yes, that is the thing. I am afraid I can't be what I ought to be, or people would never think
of such nonsense," said Fanny, with large tears welling into her eyes. "I can't be guarding
that dear memory as I ought, to have two such things happening so soon."

"Perhaps they have made you cherish it all the more."

"As if I wanted that! Please will you tell me how I could have been more guarded. I don't mind
your knowing about this; indeed you ought, for Sir Stephen trusted me to you, but I can't ask
my aunt or any one else. I can't talk about it, and I would not have them know that Sir Stephen's
wife can't get his memory more respected."

She did not speak with anger as the first time, but with most touching sadness.

"I don't think any one could answer," he said.

"I did take my aunt's advice about the officers being here. I have not had them nearly as much
as Bessie would have liked, not even Alick. I have been sorry it was so dull for her, but I
thought it could not be wrong to be intimate with one's clergyman, and Rachel was always so
hard upon him."

"You did nothing but what was kind and right. The only possible thing that could have been
wished otherwise was the making a regular habit of his playing croquet here."

"Ah! but the boys and Bessie liked it so much. However, I dare say it was wrong. Alick never
did like it."

"Not wrong, only a little overdone. You ladies want sometimes to be put in mind that, because
a clergyman has to manage his own time, he is not a whit more really at liberty than a soldier
or a lawyer, whose hours are fixed for him. You do not do him or his parish any kindness by
engrossing him constantly in pastimes that are all very well once in a way, but which he cannot
make habitual without detriment to his higher duties."

"But I thought he would have known when he had time."

"I am afraid curates are but bits of human nature after all."

"And what ought I to have done?"

"If you had been an exceedingly prudent woman who knew the world, you would have done just
as you did about the officers, been friendly, and fairly intimate, but instead of ratifying
the daily appointments for croquet, have given a special invitation now and then, and so shown
that you did not expect him without one."

"I see. Oh, if I had only thought in time, I need not have driven him away from his parish!
I hope he won't go on being unhappy long! Oh, I wish there may be some very nice young lady
where he is going. If he only would come back married!"

"We would give him a vote of thanks."

"What a wedding present I would make her," proceeded Fanny, brightening perceptibly; "I would
give her my best Indian table, only I always meant that for Ermine. I think she must have the
emu's egg set in Australian gold."

"If she were to be induced by the bribe," said Colonel Keith, laughing, "I think Ermine would
be sufficiently provided for by the emu's egg. Do you know," he added, after a pause, "I think
I have made a great step in that direction."

She clasped her hands with delighted sympathy. "She has given me leave to mention the matter,"
he continued, "and I take that as a sign that her resistance will give way."

"Oh, I am very glad," said Fanny, "I have so wished them to know at the Homestead," and her
deepened colour revealed, against her will, that she had not been insensible to the awkwardness
of the secrecy.

"I should rather like to tell your cousin Rachel myself," said the Colonel; "she has always
been very kind to Ermine, and appreciated her more than I should have expected. But she is
not easily to be seen now."

"Her whole heart is in her orphan asylum," said Fanny. "I hope you will soon go with us and
see it; the little girls look so nice."

The brightening of his prospects seemed to have quite consoled her for her own perplexities.

That Avonmouth should have no suspicion of the cause of the sudden change of pastor could hardly
be hoped; but at least Lady Temple did not know how much talk was expended upon her, how quietly
Lord Keith hugged himself, how many comical stories Bessie detailed in her letters to her Clare
cousins, nor how Mrs. Curtis resented the presumption; and while she shrank from a lecture,
more especially as she did not see how dear Fanny was to blame, flattered herself and Grace
that, for the future, Colonel Keith and Rachel would take better care of her.

Rachel did not dwell much on the subject, it was only the climax of conceit, croquet, and mere
womanhood; and she was chiefly anxious to know whether Mr. Mitchell, the temporary clergyman,
would support the F. U. E. E., and be liberal enough to tolerate Mr. Mauleverer. She had great
hopes from a London incumbent, and, besides, Bessie Keith knew him, and spoke of him as a very
sensible, agreeable, earnest man.

"Earnest enough for you, Rachel," she said, laughing.

"Is he a party man?"

"Oh, parties are getting obsolete! He works too hard for fighting battles outside."

The Sunday showed a spare, vigorous face, and a voice and pronunciation far more refined than
poor Mr. Touchett's; also the sermons were far more interesting, and even Rachel granted that
there were ideas in it. The change was effected with unusual celerity, for it was as needful
to Mrs. Mitchell to be speedily established in a warm climate, as it was desirable to Mr. Touchett
to throw himself into other scenes; and the little parsonage soon had the unusual ornaments
of tiny children with small spades and wheelbarrows.

The father and mother were evidently very shy people, with a great deal beneath their timidity,
and were much delighted to have an old acquaintance like Miss Keith to help them through their
introductions, an office which she managed with all her usual bright tact. The discovery that
Stephana Temple and Lucy Mitchell had been born within two days of one another, was the first
link of a warm friendship between the two mammas; and Mr. Mitchell fell at once into friendly
intercourse with Ermine Williams, to whom Bessie herself conducted him for his first visit,
when they at once discovered all manner of mutual acquaintance among his college friends; and
his next step was to make the very arrangement for Ermine's church-going, for which she had
long been wishing in secret, but which never having occurred to poor Mr. Touchett, she had
not dared to propose, lest there should be some great inconvenience in the way.

Colonel Keith was the person, however, with whom the new comers chiefly fraternized, and he
was amused with their sense of the space for breathing compared with the lanes and alleys of
their own district. The schools and cottages seemed to them so wonderfully large, the children
so clean, even their fishiness a form of poetical purity, the people ridiculously well off,
and even Mrs. Kelland's lace-school a palace of the free maids that weave their thread with
bones. Mr. Mitchell seemed almost to grudge the elbow room, as he talked of the number of cubic
feet that held a dozen of his own parishioners; and needful as the change had been for the
health of both husband and wife, they almost reproached themselves for having fled and left
so many pining for want of pure air, dwelling upon impossible castles for the importation of
favourite patients to enjoy the balmy breezes of Avonmouth.

Rachel talked to them about the F. U. E. E., and was delighted by the flush of eager interest
on Mrs. Mitchell's thin face. "Objects" swarmed in their parish, but where were the seven shillings
per week to come from? At any rate Mr. Mitchell would, the first leisure day, come over to
St. Herbert's with her, and inspect. He did not fly off at the first hint of Mr. Mauleverer's
"opinions," but said he would talk to him, and thereby rose steps untold in Rachel's estimation.
The fact of change is dangerously pleasant to the human mind; Mr. Mitchell walked at once into
popularity, and Lady Temple had almost conferred a public benefit by what she so little liked
to remember. At any rate she had secured an unexceptionable companion, and many a time resorted
to his wing, leaving Bessie to amuse Lord Keith, who seemed to be reduced to carry on his courtship
to the widow by attentions to her guest.

CHAPTER XIII. THE FOX AND THE CROW.

 "She just gave one squall,
  When the cheese she let fall,
  And the fox ran away with his prize."
                               JANE TAYLOR.

"My dear," said Mrs. Curtis, one Monday morning, "I offered Colonel Keith a seat in the carriage
to go to the annual book-club meeting with us. Mr. Spicer is going to propose him as a member
of the club, you know, and I thought the close carriage would be better for him. I suppose
you will be ready by eleven; we ought to set out by that time, not to hurry the horses."

"I am not going," returned Rachel, an announcement that electrified her auditors, for the family
quota of books being quite insufficient for her insatiable appetite, she was a subscriber on
her own account, and besides, this was the grand annual gathering for disposing of old books,
when she was relied on for purchasing all the nuts that nobody else would crack. The whole
affair was one of the few social gatherings that she really tolerated and enjoyed, and her
mother gazed at her in amazement.

"I wrote to Mrs. Spicer a month ago to take my name off. I have no superfluous money to spend
on my selfish amusement."

"But Rachel," said Grace, "did you not particularly want--oh! that fat red book which came
to us uncut?"

"I did, but I must do without it."

"Poor Mr. Spicer, he reckoned on you to take it; indeed, he thought you had promised him."

"If there is anything like a promise, I suppose it must be done, but I do not believe there
is. I trust to you, Grace, you know I have nothing to waste."

"You had better go yourself, my dear, and then you would be able to judge. It would be more
civil by the society, too."

"No matter, indeed I cannot; in fact, Mr. Mauleverer is coming this morning to give his report
and arrange our building plans. I want to introduce him to Mr. Mitchell, and fix a day for
going over."

Mrs. Curtis gave up in despair, and consulted her eldest daughter in private whether there
could have been any misunderstanding with Colonel Keith to lead Rachel to avoid him in a manner
that was becoming pointed. Grace deemed it nothing but absorption into the F. U. E. E., and
poor Mrs. Curtis sighed over this fleeting away of her sole chance of seeing Rachel like other
people. Of Mr. Mauleverer personally she had no fears, he was in her eyes like a drawing or
music-master, and had never pretended to be on equal terms in society with her daughters, and
she had no doubts or scruples in leaving Rachel to her business interview with him, though
she much regretted this further lapse from the ordinary paths of sociability.

Rachel, on the other hand, felt calmly magnanimous in the completion of a veritable sacrifice,
for those books had afforded her much enjoyment, and she would much like to have possessed
many of those that would be tossed aside at a cheap rate. But the constant small expenses entailed
by the first setting on foot such an establishment as the F. U. E. E. were a heavy drain on
her private purse, as she insisted on all accounts being brought to her, and then could not
bear that these small nondescript matters should be charged upon the general fund, which having
already paid the first half-year's rent in advance, and furnished the house, must be recruited
by some extraordinary supply before she could build. The thing could not be done at all but
by rigid economy, and she was ready to exercise it, and happy in so doing. And the Colonel?
She thought the pain of her resolution was passing. After all, it was not so dreadful as people
would have one believe, it was no such wrench as novels described to make up one's mind to
prefer a systematically useful life to an agreeable man.

Mr. Mauleverer came, with a good report of the children's progress, and talking quite enthusiastically
of Lovedy's sweetness and intelligence. Perhaps she would turn out a superior artist, now that
chill penury no longer repressed her noble rage, and he further brought a small demand for
drawing materials and blocks for engraving, to the amount of five pounds, which Rachel defrayed
from the general fund, but sighed over its diminution.

"If I could only make the Barnaby bargain available," she said; "it is cruel to have it tied
up to mere apprenticeships, which in the present state of things are absolutely useless, or worse."

"Can nothing be done?"

"You shall hear. Dame Rachel Curtis, in 1605, just when this place was taking up lace-making,
an art learnt, I believe, from some poor nuns that were turned out of St. Mary's, at Avoncester,
thought she did an immense benefit to the place by buying the bit of land known as Burnaby's
Bargain, and making the rents go yearly to apprentice two poor girls born of honest parents.
The rent is fourteen pounds, and so the fees are so small that only the small lace-makers here
will accept them. I cannot get the girls apprenticed to anything better in the towns except
for a much larger premium."

"Do I understand you that such a premium is at present to be bestowed?"

"No, not till next June. The two victims for this year have been sacrificed. But perhaps another
time it might be possible to bind them to you as a wood engraver or printer!" cried Rachel,
joyfully.

"I should be most happy. But who would be the persons concerned?"

"The trustees are the representative of our family and the rector of the parish--not Mr. Touchett
(this is only a district), but poor old Mr. Linton at Avonbridge, who is barely able to sign
the papers, so that practically it all comes to me."

"Extremely fortunate for the objects of the charity."

"I wish it were so; but if it could only be made available in such a cause as ours, I am sure
my good namesake's intentions would be much better carried out than by binding these poor girls
down to their cushions. I did once ask about it, but I was told it could only be altered by
Act of Parliament."

"Great facilities have of late been given," said Mr. Mauleverer, "many old endowments have
most beneficially extended their scope. May I ask where the land in question is?"

"It is the level bit of meadow just by the river, and all the slope down to the mouth; it has
always been in our hands, and paid rent as part of the farm. You know how well it looks from
the garden-seat, but it always grieves me when people admire it, for I feel as if it were thrown
away."

"Ah! I understand. Perhaps if I could see the papers I could judge of the feasibility of some
change."

Rachel gladly assented, and knowing where to find the keys of the strong box, she returned
in a short space with a parcel tied up with, red tape, and labelled "Barnaby's Bargain."

"I have been thinking," she exclaimed, as she came in, "that that piece of land must have grown
much more valuable since this rent was set on it! Fourteen pounds a year, why we never thought
of it; but surely in such a situation, it would be worth very much more for building purposes."

"There can be no doubt. But your approach, Miss Curtis?"

"If it is a matter of justice to the charity, of course that could not be weighed a moment.
But we must consider what is to be done. Get the land valued, and pay rent for it accordingly?
I would give it up to its fate, and let it for what it would bring, but it would break my mother's
heart to see it built on."

"Perhaps I had better take the papers and look over them. I see they will need much consideration."

"Very well, that will be the best way, but we will say nothing about it till we have come to
some conclusion, or we shall only startle and distress my mother. After all, then, I do believe
we have the real income of the F. U. E. E. within our very hands! It might be ten times what
it is now."

Rachel was in higher spirits than ever. To oblige the estate to pay £140 a year to the F. U.
E. E. was beyond measure delightful, and though it would be in fact only taking out of the
family pocket, yet that was a pocket she could not otherwise get at. The only thing for which
she was sorry was that Mr. Mauleverer had an appointment, and could not come with her to call
on Mr. Mitchell; but instead of this introduction, as she had sworn herself to secrecy rather
than worry her mother till the ways and means were matured, she resolved, by way of compensation,
upon going down to impart to Ermine Williams this grave reformation of abuses, since this was
an afternoon when there was no chance of meeting the Colonel.

Very happy did she feel in the hope that had come to crown her efforts at the very moment when
she had actually and tangibly given up a pleasure, and closed a door opening into worldly life,
and she was walking along with a sense of almost consecrated usefulness, to seek her companion
in the path of maiden devotion, when in passing the gates of Myrtlewood, she was greeted by
Captain Keith and his bright-eyed sister, just coming forth together.

A few words told that they were all bound for Mackarel Lane, actuated by the same probability
of finding Miss Williams alone, the Colonel being absent.

"Wonderfully kind to her he is," said Rachel, glad to praise him to convince herself that she
did not feel bitter; "he takes that little girl out walking with him every morning."

"I wonder if his constancy will ever be rewarded?" said Bessie, lightly; then, as Rachel looked
at her in wonder and almost rebuke for so direct and impertinent a jest, she exclaimed, "Surely
you are not in ignorance! What have I done? I thought all the world knew--all the inner world,
that is, that revels in a secret."

"Knew what?" said Rachel, unavoidable intolerable colour rushing into her face.

"Why the romance of Colin and Ermine! To live on the verge of such a--a tragi-comedy, is it?
and not be aware of it, I do pity you."

"The only wonder is how you knew it," said her brother, in a tone of repression.

"I! Oh, it is a fine thing to be a long-eared little pitcher when one's elders imagine one
hears nothing but what is addressed to oneself. There I sat, supposed to be at my lessons,
when the English letters came in, and I heard papa communicating to mamma how he had a letter
from old Lord Keith--not this one but one older still--the father of him--about his son's exchange--wanted
papa to know that he was exemplary and all that, and hoped he would be kind to him, but just
insinuated that leave was not desirable--in fact it was to break off an affair at home. And
then, while I was all on fire to see what a lover looked like, comes another letter, this time
to mamma, from Lady Alison something, who could not help recommending to her kindness her dear
nephew Colin, going out broken-hearted at what was feared would prove a fatal accident, to
the dearest, noblest girl in the world, for so she must call Ermine Williams. Ermine was a
name to stick in one's memory if Williams was not, and so I assumed sufficient certainty to
draw it all out of dear Lady Temple."

"She knows then?" said Rachel, breathlessly, but on her guard.

"Know? Yes, or she could hardly make such a brother of the Colonel. In fact, I think it is
a bit of treachery to us all to keep such an affair concealed, don't you?" with a vivid flash
out of the corner of her eyes.

"Treachery not to post up a list of all one's--"

"One's conquests?" said Bessie, snatching the word out of her brother's mouth. "Did you ever
hear a more ingenious intimation of the number one has to boast?"

"Only in character," calmly returned Alick.

"But do not laugh," said Rachel, who had by this time collected herself; "if this is so, it
must be far too sad and melancholy to be laughed about."

"So it is," said Alick, with a tone of feeling. "It has been a mournful business from the first,
and I do not see how it is to end."

"Why, I suppose Colonel Colin is his own master now," said Bessie; "and if he has no objection
I do not see who else can make any."

"There are people in the world who are what Tennyson calls 'selfless,'" returned Alick.

"Then the objection comes from her?" said Rachel, anxiously.

"So saith Lady Temple," returned Bessie.

They were by this time in Mackarel Lane. Rachel would have given much to have been able to
turn back and look this strange news in the face, but consciousness and fear of the construction
that might be put on her change of purpose forced her on, and in a few moments the three were
in the little parlour, where Ermine's station was now by the fire. There could be no doubt,
as Rachel owned to herself instantly, that there was a change since she first had studied that
face. The bright colouring, and far more, the active intellect and lively spirit, had always
obviated any expression of pining or invalidism; but to the air of cheerfulness was added a
look of freshened health and thorough happiness, that rendered the always striking features
absolutely beautiful; more so, perhaps, than in their earliest bloom; and the hair and dress,
though always neat, and still as simply arranged as possible, had an indescribable air of care
and taste that added to the effect of grace and pleasantness, and made Rachel feel convinced
in a moment that the wonder would have been not in constancy to such a creature but in inconstancy.
The notion that any one could turn from that brilliant, beaming, refined face to her own, struck
her with a sudden humiliation. There was plenty of conversation, and her voice was not immediately
wanted; indeed, she hardly attended to what was passing, and really dreaded outstaying the
brother and sister. When Ermine turned to her, and asked after Lovedy Kelland in her new home,
she replied like one in a dream, then gathered herself up and answered to the point, but feeling
the restraint intolerable, soon rose to take leave.

"So soon?" said Ermine; "I have not seen you for a long time."

"I--I was afraid of being in the way," said Rachel, the first time probably that such a fear
had ever suggested itself to her, and blushing as Ermine did not blush.

"We are sure to be alone after twilight," said Ermine, "if that is not too late for you, but
I know you are much occupied now."

Somehow that invalid in her chair had the dignity of a queen appointing her levee, and Rachel
followed the impulse of thanking and promising, but then quickly made her escape to her own
thoughts.

"Her whole soul is in that asylum," said Ermine, smiling as she went. "I should like to hear
that it is going on satisfactorily, but she does not seem to have time even to talk."

"The most wonderful consummation of all," observed Bessie.

"No," said Ermine, "the previous talk was not chatter, but real effervescence from the unsatisfied
craving for something to do."

"And has she anything to do now?" said Bessie.

"That is exactly what I want to know. It would be a great pity if all this real self-devotion
were thrown away."

"It cannot be thrown away," said Alick.

"Not on herself," said Ermine, "but one would not see it misdirected, both for the waste of
good energy and the bitter disappointment."

"Well," said Bessie, "I can't bear people to be so dreadfully in earnest!"

"You are accountable for the introduction, are not you?" said Ermine.

"I'm quite willing! I think a good downfall plump would be the most wholesome thing that could
happen to her; and besides, I never told her to take the man for her almoner and counsellor!
I may have pointed to the gulf, but I never bade Curtia leap into it."

"I wish there were any one to make inquiries about this person," said Ermine; "but when Colonel
Keith came it was too late. I hoped she might consult him, but she has been so much absorbed
that she really has never come in his way."

"She would never consult any one," said Bessie.

"I am not sure of that," replied Ermine. "I think that her real simplicity is what makes her
appear so opinionated. I verily believe that there is a great capability of humility at the
bottom."

"Of the gulf," laughed Bessie; but her brother said, "Quite true. She has always been told
she is the clever woman of the family, and what can she do but accept the position?"

"Exactly," said Ermine; "every one has given way to her, and, of course, she walks over their
bodies, but there is something so noble about her that I cannot but believe that she will one
day shake herself clear of her little absurdities."

"That is contrary to the usual destiny of strong-minded women," said Bessie.

"She is not a strong-minded woman, she only has been made to believe herself one," said Ermine,
warmly.

With this last encounter, Bessie and her brother took leave, and the last at once exclaimed,
in sentimental tones, "Generous rivals! I never saw so good a comedy in all my days! To disclose
the fatal truth, and then bring the rival fair ones face to face!"

"If that were your belief, Bessie, the demon of teasing has fuller possession of you than I knew."

"Ah! I forgot," exclaimed Bessie, "it is tender ground with you likewise. Alas! Alick, sisterly
affection cannot blind me to the fact of that unrequited admiration for your honourable rival."

"What, from the strong-minded Curtia?"

"Ah! but have we not just heard that this is not the genuine article, only a country-made imitation?
No wonder it was not proof against an honourable colonel in a brown beard."

"So much the better; only unluckily there has been a marked avoidance of him."

"Yes; the Colonel was sacrificed with all other trivial incidents at the shrine of the F. U.
L. E.--E. E., I mean. And only think of finding out that one has been sacrificing empty air
after all--and to empty air!"

"Better than to sacrifice everything to oneself," said Alick.

"Not at all. The latter practice is the only way to be agreeable! By-the-bye, Alick, I wonder
if she will deign to come to the ball?"

"What ball?"

"Your ball at Avoncester. It is what I am staying on for! Major McDonald all but promised me
one; and you know you must give one before you leave this place."

"Don't you know that poor Fraser has just been sent for home on his sister's death?"

"But I conclude the whole regiment does not go into mourning?"

"No, but Fraser is the one fellow to whom this would be real enjoyment. Indeed, I particularly
wish no hints may be given about it. Don't deny, I know you have ways of bringing about what
you wish, and I will not have them used here. I know something of the kind must be done before
we leave Avoncester, but to give one this autumn would be much sooner than needful. I believe
there is hardly an officer but myself and Fraser to whom the expense would not be a serious
consideration, and when I tell you my father had strong opinions about overdoing reciprocities
of gaiety, and drawing heavily on the officers' purses for them, I do not think you will allow
their regard for him to take that manifestation towards you."

"Of course not," said Bessie, warmly; "I will not think of it again. Only when the fate does
overtake you, you will have me here for it, Alick?"

He readily promised, feeling gratified at the effect of having spoken to his sister with full
recognition of her good sense.

Meantime Rachel was feeling something of what Bessie ascribed to her, as if her sacrifice had
been snatched away, and a cloud placed in its stead. Mortification was certainly present, and
a pained feeling of having been made a fool of, whether by the Colonel or herself, her candid
mind could hardly decide; but she was afraid it was by herself. She knew she had never felt
sure enough of his attentions to do more than speculate on what she would do if they should
become more pointed, and yet she felt angry and sore at having been exposed to so absurd a
blunder by the silence of the parties concerned. "After all," she said to herself, "there can
be no great harm done, I have not been weak enough to commit my heart to the error. I am unscathed,
and I will show it by sympathy for Ermine. Only--only, why could not she have told me?"

An ordeal was coming for which Rachel was thus in some degree prepared. On the return of the
party from the book club, Mrs. Curtis came into Rachel's sitting-room, and hung lingering over
the fire as if she had something to say, but did not know how to begin. At last, however, she
said, "I do really think it is very unfair, but it was not his fault, he says."

"Who?" said Rachel, dreamily.

"Why, Colonel Keith, my dear," said good Mrs. Curtis, conceiving that her pronominal speech
had "broken" her intelligence; "it seems we were mistaken in him all this time."

"What, about Miss Williams?" said Rachel, perceiving how the land lay; "how did you hear it?"

"You knew it, my dear child," cried her mother in accents of extreme relief.

"Only this afternoon, from Bessie Keith."

"And Fanny knew it all this time," continued Mrs. Curtis. "I cannot imagine how she could keep
it from me, but it seems Miss Williams was resolved it should not be known. Colonel Keith said
he felt it was wrong to go on longer without mentioning it, and I could not but say that it
would have been a great relief to have known it earlier."

"As far as Fanny was concerned it would," said Rachel, looking into the fire, but not without
a sense of rehabilitating satisfaction, as the wistful looks and tone of her mother convinced
her that this semi-delusion had not been confined to herself.

"I could not help being extremely sorry for him when he was telling me," continued Mrs. Curtis,
as much resolved against uttering the idea as Rachel herself could be. "It has been such a
very long attachment, and now he says he has not yet been able to overcome her scruples about
accepting him in her state. It is quite right of her, I can't say but it is, but it is a very
awkward situation."

"I do not see that," said Rachel, feeling the need of decision in order to reassure her mother;
"it is very sad and distressing in some ways, but no one can look at Miss Williams without
seeing that his return has done her a great deal of good; and whether they marry or not, one
can only be full of admiration and respect for them."

"Yes, yes," faltered Mrs. Curtis; "only I must say I think it was due to us to have mentioned
it sooner."

"Not at all, mother. Fanny knew it, and it was nobody's concern but hers. Pray am I to have
Owen's 'Palaeontology'?"

"No, Colonel Keith bought that, and some more of the solid books. My dear, he is going to settle
here; he tells me he has actually bought that house he and his brother are in."

"Bought it!"

"Yes; he says, any way, his object is to be near Miss Williams. Well, I cannot think how it
is to end, so near the title as he is, and her sister a governess, and then that dreadful business
about her brother, and the little girl upon her hands. Dear me, I wish Fanny had any one else
for a governess."

"So do not I," said Rachel. "I have the greatest possible admiration for Ermine Williams, and
I do not know which I esteem most, her for her brave, cheerful, unrepining unselfishness, or
him for his constancy and superiority to all those trumpery considerations. I am glad to have
the watching of them. I honour them both."

Yes, and Rachel honoured herself still more for being able to speak all this freely and truly
out of the innermost depths of her candid heart.

CHAPTER XIV. THE GOWANBRAE BALL.

              "Your honour's pardon,
 I'd rather have my wounds to heal again,
 Than hear say how I got them."--Coriolanus.

"Yes, I go the week after next."

"So soon? I thought you were to stay for our ball."

"Till this time next year! No, no, I can't quite do that, thank you."

"This very winter."

"Oh, no--no such thing! Why, half the beauty and fashion of the neighbourhood is not come into
winter quarters yet. Besides, the very essence of a military ball is that it should be a parting--the
brightest and the last. Good morning."

And Meg's head, nothing loth, was turned away from the wide view of the broad vale of the Avon,
with the Avoncester Cathedral towers in the midst, and the moors rising beyond in purple distance.
The two young lieutenants could only wave their farewells, as Bessie cantered merrily over
the soft smooth turf of the racecourse, in company with Lord Keith, the Colonel, and Conrade.

"Do you not like dancing?" inquired Lord Keith, when the canter was over, and they were splashing
through a lane with high hedges.

"I'm not so unnatural," returned Bessie, with a merry smile, "but it would never do to let
the Highlanders give one now. Alick has been telling me that the expense would fall seriously
on a good many of them."

"True," said Colonel Keith, "too many fetes come to be a heavy tax."

"That is more consideration than is common in so young a lad," added Lord Keith.

"Yes, but dear Alick is so full of consideration," said the sister, eagerly. "He does not get
half the credit for it that he deserves, because, you know, he is so quiet and reserved, and
has that unlucky ironical way with him that people don't like; especially rattlepates like
those," pointing with her whip in the direction of the two young officers.

"It is a pity," said the Colonel, "it lessens his influence. And it is strange I never perceived
it before his return to England."

"Oh! there's much owing to the habitual languor of that long illness. That satirical mumble
is the only trouble he will take to lift up his testimony, except when a thing is most decidedly
his duty, and then he does it as England expects."

"And he considered it his duty to make you decline this ball?" said Lord Keith.

"Oh, not his more than mine," said Bessie. "I don't forget that I am the Colonel's daughter."

No more was said on that occasion, but three days after cards were going about the county with
invitations from Lord Keith to an evening party, with "Dancing." Lord Keith averred, with the
full concurrence of his brother, that he owed many civilities to the ladies of the neighbourhood,
and it was a good time to return them when he could gratify the young kinswoman who had showed
such generous forbearance about the regimental ball. It was no unfavourable moment either,
when he had his brother to help him, for the ordering of balls had been so much a part of Colin's
staff duties, that it came quite naturally to him, especially with Coombe within reach to assist.
There was some question whether the place should be the public rooms or Gowanbrae, but Bessie's
vote decided on the latter, in consideration of the Colonel's chest. She was rather shocked,
while very grateful, at the consequences of the little conversation on the hill top, but she
threw herself into all the counsels with bright, ardent pleasure, though carefully refraining
from any presumption that she was queen of the evening.

Lady Temple received an invitation, but never for one moment thought of going, or even supposed
that any one could imagine she could. Indeed, if she had accepted it, it would have been a
decisive encouragement to her ancient suitor, and Colin saw that he regarded her refusal, in
its broad black edges, as a further clenching of the reply to his addresses.

Bessie was to be chaperoned by Mrs. Curtis. As to Rachel, she had resolved against youthful
gaieties for this winter and all others, but she felt that to show any reluctance to accept
the Keith invitation might be a contradiction to her indifference to the Colonel, and so construed
by her mother, Grace, and Bessie. So all she held out for was, that as she had no money to
spend upon adornments, her blue silk dinner dress, and her birthday wreath, should and must
do duty; and as to her mother's giving her finery, she was far too impressive and decided for
Mrs. Curtis to venture upon such presumption. She was willing to walk through her part for
an evening, and indeed the county was pretty well accustomed to Miss Rachel Curtis's ball-room
ways, and took them as a matter of course.

Gowanbrae had two drawing-rooms with folding doors between, quite practicable for dancing,
and the further one ending in a conservatory, that likewise extended along the end of the entrance
hall and dining-room. The small library, where Colonel Keith usually sat, became the cloak-room,
and contained, when Mrs. Curtis and her daughters arrived, so large a number of bright cashmere
cloaklets, scarlet, white, and blue, that they began to sigh prospectively at the crowd which,
Mrs. Curtis would have encountered with such joyful valour save for that confidence on the
way home from the book club.

They were little prepared for the resources of a practised staff-officer. Never had a ball
even to them looked so well arranged, or in such thorough style, as a little dexterous arrangement
of flowers, lights, and sofas, and rendered those two rooms. The two hosts worked extremely
well. Lord Keith had shaken off much of his careless stoop and air of age, and there was something
in his old-world polish and his Scotch accent that gave a sort of romance to the manner of
his reception. His brother, with his fine brow, and thoughtful eyes, certainly appeared to
Rachel rather thrown away as master of the ceremonies, but whatever he did, he always did in
the quietest and best way, and receptions had been a part of his vocation, so that he infused
a wonderful sense of ease, and supplied a certain oil of good breeding that made everything
move suavely. Young ladies in white, and mothers in all the colours of the rainbow, were there
in plenty, and, by Bessie's special command, the scene was enlivened by the Highland uniform,
with the graceful tartan scarf fastened across the shoulder with the Bruce brooch.

Rachel had not been long in the room before she was seized on by Emily Grey, an enthusiastic
young lady of the St. Norbert's neighbourhood, whom she met seldom, but was supposed to know
intimately.

"And they say you have the hero here--the Victoria Cross man--and that you know him. You must
show him to me, and get me introduced."

"There is no Victoria Cross man here," said Rachel, coldly. "Colonel Keith did not have one."

"Oh, no, I don't mean Colonel Keith, but Captain Alexander Keith, quite a young man. Oh, I
am sure you remember the story--you were quite wild about it--of his carrying the lighted shell
out of the hospital tent; and they told me he was always over here, and his sister staying
with Lady Temple."

"I know Captain Alexander Keith," said Rachel, slowly; "but you must be mistaken, I am certain
I should know if he had a Victoria Cross."

"It is very odd; Charlie told me it was the same," said Miss Grey, who, like all others, was
forced to bend to Rachel's decisive manner.

"Scottish names are very common," said Rachel, and at that moment a partner came and carried
Emily off.

But as Rachel stood still, an odd misgiving seized her, a certain doubt whether upon the tall
lazy figure that was leaning against a wall nearly opposite to her, talking to another officer,
she did not see something suspiciously bronze and eight-pointed that all did not wear. There
was clearly a medal, though with fewer clasps than some owned; but what else was there? She
thought of the lecture on heroism she had given to him, and felt hot all over. Behold, he was
skirting the line of chaperons, and making his way towards their party. The thing grew more
visible, and she felt more disconcerted than ever had been her lot before; but escape there
was none, here he was shaking hands.

"You don't polk?" he said to her. "In fact, you regard all this as a delusion of weak minds.
Then, will you come and have some tea?"

Rachel took his arm, still bewildered, and when standing before him with the tea-cup in her
hand, she interrupted something he was saying, she knew not what, with, "That is not the Victoria
Cross?"

"Then it is, like all the rest, a delusion," he answered, in his usual impassive manner.

"And gained," she continued, "by saving the lives of all those officers, the very thing I told
you about!"

"You told me that man was killed."

"Then it was not you!"

"Perhaps they picked up the pieces of the wrong one."

"But if you would only tell me how you gained it."

"By the pursuit of conchology."

"Then it was yourself?" again said Rachel, in her confusion.

"If I be I as I suppose I be," he replied, giving her his arm again, and as they turned towards
the conservatory, adding, "Many such things have happened, and I did not know whether you meant
this."

"That was the reason you made so light of it."

"What, because I thought it was somebody else?"

"No, the contrary reason; but I cannot understand why you let me go on without telling me."

"I never interfere when a story is so perfect in itself."

"But is my story perfect in itself?" said Rachel, "or is it the contrary?"

"No one knows less of the particulars than I do," he answered. "I think your version was that
it was an hospital tent that the shell came into. It was not that, but a bungalow, which was
supposed to be out of range. It stood on a bit of a slope, and I thought I should have been
able to kick the shell down before it had time to do mischief."

"But you picked it up, and took it to the door--I mean, did you?" said Rachel, who was beginning
to discover that she must ask Alick Keith a direct question, if she wished to get an answer,
and she received a gesture of assent.

"I was very blind," she said, humbly, "and now I have gone and insisted to poor Emily Grey
that you never did any such thing."

"Thank you," he said; "it was the greatest kindness you could do me."

"Ah! your sister said you had the greatest dislike to hero worship."

"A natural sense of humbug," he said. "I don't know why they gave me this," he added, touching
his cross, "unless it was that one of the party in the bungalow had a turn for glorifying whatever
happened to himself. Plenty of more really gallant things happened every day, and were never
heard of, and I, who absolutely saw next to nothing of the campaign, have little right to be
decorated."

"Ah!" said Rachel, thoughtfully, "I have always wondered whether one would be happier for having
accomplished an act of heroism."

"I do not know," said Alick, thoughtfully; then, as Rachel looked up with a smile of amazement,
"Oh, you mean this; but it was mere self-preservation. I could hardly even have bolted, for
I was laid up with fever, and was very shaky on my legs."

"I suppose, however," said Rachel, "that the vision of one's life in entering the army would
be to win that sort of distinction, and so young."

"Win it as some have done," said Alick, "and deserve what is far better worth than distinction.
That may be the dream, but, after all, it is the discipline and constant duty that make the
soldier, and are far more really valuable than exceptional doings."

"People must always be ready for them, though," said Rachel

"And they are," said Alick, with grave exultation in his tone.

Then, after a pause, she led back the conversation to its personal character, by saying. "Do
you mean that the reception of this cross was no gratification to you?"

"No, I am not so absurd," he replied, but he added sadly, "That was damped quite otherwise.
The news that I was named for it came almost in the same breath with that of my father's death,
and he had not heard I was to receive it."

"Ah! I can understand."

"And you can see how intolerable was the fuss my good relations made with me just when the
loss was fresh on me, and with that of my two chief friends, among my brother officers, fellows
beside whom I was nobody, and there was my uncle's blindness getting confirmed. Was not that
enough to sicken one with being stuck up for a lion, and constantly poked up by the showwoman,
under pretext of keeping up one's spirits!"

"And you were--I mean were you--too ill to escape?"

"I was less able to help myself than Miss Williams is. There had been a general smash of all
the locomotive machinery on this side, and the wretched monster could do nothing but growl
at his visitors."

"Should you growl very much if I introduced you to Emily Grey? You see it is a matter of justice
and truth to tell her now, after having contradicted her so flatly. I will wait to let you
get out of the way first if you like, but I think that would be unkind to her; and if you ever
do dance, I wish you would dance with her."

"With all my heart," he answered.

"Oh, thank you," said Rachel, warmly.

He observed with some amusement Rachel's utter absence of small dexterities, and of even the
effort to avoid the humiliation of a confession of her error. Miss Grey and a boy partner had
wandered into the conservatory, and were rather dismally trying to seem occupied with the camellias
when Rachel made her way to them, and though he could not actually hear the words, he knew
pretty well what they were. "Emily, you were right after all, and I was mistaken," and then
as he drew near, "Miss Grey, Captain Keith wishes to be introduced to you."

It had been a great shock to Rachel's infallibility, and as she slowly began working her way
in search of her mother, after observing the felicity of Emily's bright eyes, she fell into
a musing on the advantages of early youth in its indiscriminating powers of enthusiasm for
anything distinguished for anything, and that sense of self-exaltation in any sort of contact
with a person who had been publicly spoken of. "There is genuine heroism in him," thought Rachel,
"but it is just in what Emily would never appreciate--it is in the feeling that he could not
help doing as he did; the half-grudging his reward to himself because other deeds have passed
unspoken. I wonder whether his ironical humour would allow him to see that Mr. Mauleverer is
as veritable a hero in yielding hopes of consideration, prospects, honours, to his sense of
truth and uprightness. If he would only look with an unprejudiced eye, I know he would be candid."

"Are you looking for Mrs. Curtis?" said Colonel Keith. "I think she is in the other room."

"Not particularly, thank you," said Rachel, and she was surprised to find how glad she was
to look up freely at him.

"Would it be contrary to your principles or practice to dance with me?"

"To my practice," she said smilingly, "so let us find my mother. Is Miss Alison Williams here?
I never heard whether it was settled that she should come," she added, resolved both to show
him her knowledge of his situation, and to let her mother see her at her ease with him.

"No, she was obstinate, though her sister and I did our utmost to persuade her, and the boys
were crazy to make her go."

"I can't understand your wishing it."

"Not as an experience of life? Alison never went to anything in her girlhood, but devoted herself
solely to her sister, and it would be pleasant to see her begin her youth."

"Not as a mere young lady!" exclaimed Rachel.

"That is happily not possible."

An answer that somewhat puzzled Rachel, whose regard for him was likely to be a good deal dependent
upon his contentment with Alison's station in life.

"I must say young ladyhood looks to the greatest advantage there," Rachel could not help exclaiming,
as at that moment Elizabeth Keith smiled at them, as she floated past, her airy white draperies
looped with scarlet ribbons; her dark hair turned back and fastened by a snood of the same,
an eagle's feather clasped in it by a large emerald, a memory of her father's last siege--that
of Lucknow.

"She is a very pretty creature," said the Colonel, under the sparkle of her bright eyes.

"I never saw any one make the pursuits of young ladyhood have so much spirit and meaning,"
added Rachel. "Here you see she has managed to make herself sufficiently like other people,
yet full of individual character and meaning."

"That is the theory of dress, I suppose," said the Colonel.

"If one chooses to cultivate it."

"Did you ever see Lady Temple in full dress?"

"No; we were not out when we parted as girls."

"Then you have had a loss. I think it was at our last Melbourne ball, that when she went to
the nursery to wish the children good night, one of them--Hubert, I believe--told her to wear
that dress when she went to heaven, and dear old Sir Stephen was so delighted that he went
straight upstairs to kiss the boy for it."

"Was that Lady Temple?" said Alick Keith, who having found Miss Grey engaged many deep, joined
them again, and at his words came back a thrill of Rachel's old fear and doubt as to the possible
future.

"Yes," said the Colonel; "I was recollecting the gracious vision she used to be at all our
chief's parties."

"Vision, you call her, who lived in the house with her? What do you think she was to us--poor
wretches--coming up from barracks where Mrs. O'Shaughnessy was our cynosure? There was not
one of us to whom she was not Queen of the East, and more, with that innocent, soft, helpless
dignity of hers!"

"And Sir Stephen for the first of her vassals," said the Colonel.

"What a change it has been!" said Alick.

"Yes; but a change that has shown her to have been unspoilable. We were just agreeing on the
ball-room perfections of her and your sister in their several lines."

"Very different lines," said Alick, smiling.

"I can't judge of Fanny's," said Rachel, "but your sister is almost enough to make one believe
there can be some soul in young lady life."

"I did not bring Bessie here to convert you," was the somewhat perplexing answer.

"Nor has she," said Rachel, "except so far as I see that she can follow ordinary girls' pursuits
without being frivolous in them." Alick bowed at the compliment.

"And she has been a sunbeam," added Rachel, "we shall all feel graver and cloudier without her."

"Yes," said Colonel Keith, "and I am glad Mr. Clare has such a sunbeam for his parsonage. What
a blessing she will be there!" he added, as he watched Bessie's graceful way of explaining
to his brother some little matter in behalf of the shy mother of a shy girl. Thinking he might
be wanted, Colonel Keith went forward to assist, and Rachel continued, "I do envy that power
of saying the right thing to everybody!"

"Don't--it is the greatest snare," was his answer, much amazing her, for she had her mind full
of the two direct personal blunders she had made towards him.

"It prevents many difficulties and embarrassments."

"Very desirable things."

"Yes; for those that like to laugh, but not for those that are laughed at," said Rachel.

"More so; the worst of all misfortunes is to wriggle too smoothly through life."

This was to Rachel the most remarkable part of the evening; as to the rest, it was like all
other balls, a weariness: Grace enjoying herself and her universal popularity, always either
talking or dancing, and her mother comfortable and dutiful among other mothers; the brilliant
figure and ready grace of Bessie Keith being the one vision that perpetually flitted in her
dreams, and the one ever-recurring recollection that Captain Keith, the veritable hero of the
shell, had been lectured by her on his own deed! In effect Rachel had never felt so beaten
down and ashamed of herself; so doubtful of her own most positive convictions, and yet not
utterly dissatisfied, and the worst of it was that Emily Grey was after all carried off without
dancing with the hero; and Rachel felt as if her own opinionativeness had defrauded the poor girl.

Other balls sent her home in a state of weariness, disgust, and contempt towards every one,
but this one had resulted in displeasure with herself, yet in much interest and excitement;
and, oh, passing strange! through that same frivolous military society.

Indeed the military society was soon in better odour with her than the clerical. She had been
making strenuous efforts to get to St. Herbert's, with Mr. Mitchell, for some time past, but
the road was in a state of being repaired, and the coachman was determined against taking his
horses there. As to going by train, that was equally impossible, since he would still less
have driven her to the station, finally, Rachel took the resolute stop of borrowing Fanny's
pony carriage, and driving herself and the clergyman to the station, where she was met by Mrs.
Morris, the mother of one of the girls, to whom she had promised such a visit, as it had been
agreed that it would be wisest not to unsettle the scholars by Christmas holidays.

The F. U. E. E. was in perfect order; the little girls sat upon a bench with their copies before
them, Mrs. Rawlins in the whitest of caps presided over them, and Mr. Mauleverer was very urbane,
conducting the visitors over the house himself, and expatiating on his views of cleanliness,
ventilation, refinement, and equality of cultivation, while Mrs. Rawlins remained to entertain
Mrs. Morris. Nothing could be more practical and satisfactory; some admirable drawings of the
children's were exhibited, and their conduct was said to be excellent; except, Mr. Mauleverer
remarked unwillingly, that there was a tendency about little Mary to fancy herself injured,
and he feared that she was not always truthful; but these were childish faults, that he hoped
would pass away with further refinement, and removal from the lower influences of her home.

After this, Rachel was not surprised that poor, ignorant, and always deplorable Mrs. Morris
did not seem in raptures with the state of her child, but more inclined to lament not having
seen more of her, and not having her at home. That was quite in accordance with peasant shortsightedness
and ingratitude, but it was much more disappointing that Mr. Mitchell said little or nothing
of approbation; asked her a few questions about her previous knowledge of Mr. Mauleverer and
Mrs. Rawlins, and when she began to talk of arranging for some one or two of his London orphans,
thanked her rather shortly, but said there was no way of managing it. It was evident that he
was quite as prejudiced as others of his clerical brethren, and the more Rachel read of current
literature, the more she became convinced of their bondage to views into which they durst not
examine, for fear honesty should compel them to assert their conclusions.

She had hoped better things from the stranger, but she began to be persuaded that all her former
concessions to the principles infused in her early days were vain entanglements, and that it
was merely weakness and unwillingness to pain her mother that prevented her from breaking through
them.

She could not talk this out with anybody, except now and then an utterance to the consenting
Mr. Mauleverer, but in general she would have been shocked to put these surging thoughts into
words, and Bessie was her only intimate who would avow that there could be anything to be found
fault with in a clergyman. When alone together, Bessie would sometimes regretfully, sometimes
in a tone of amusement, go over bits of narrow-minded folly that had struck her in the clergy,
and more especially in her uncle's curate, Mr. Lifford, whose dryness was, she owned, very
repulsive to her.

"He is a good creature," she said, "and most necessary to my uncle, but how he and I are to
get through life together, I cannot tell. It must soon be tried, though! After my visit at
Bath will come my home at Bishopsworthy!" And then she confided to Rachel all the parish ways,
and took counsel on the means of usefulness that would not clash with the curate and pain her
uncle. She even talked of a possible orphan for the F. U. E. E., only that unlucky prejudice
against Mr. Mauleverer was sure to stand in the way.

So acceptable had Bessie Keith made herself everywhere, that all Avonmouth was grieved at her
engagement to spend the winter at Bath with her married cousin, to whom she was imperatively
necessary in the getting up of a musical party.

"And I must go some time or other," she said to Colonel Keith, "so it had better be when you
are all here to make Myrtlewood cheerful, and I can be of most use to poor Jane! I do think
dear Lady Temple is much more full of life and brightness now!"

Everybody seemed to consider Bessie's departure as their own personal loss: the boys were in
despair for their playfellow, Ermine would miss those sunny visits; Colonel Keith many a pleasant
discussion, replete with delicate compliments to Ermine, veiled by tact; and Lord Keith the
pretty young clanswoman who had kept up a graceful little coquetry with him, and even to the
last evening, went on walking on the esplanade with him in the sunset, so as to set his brother
free to avoid the evening chill.

And, above all, Lady Temple regretted the loss of the cheery companion of her evenings. True,
Bessie had lately had a good many small evening gaieties, but she always came back from them
so fresh and bright, and so full of entertaining description and anecdote, that Fanny felt
as if she had been there herself, and, said Bessie, "it was much better for her than staying
at home with her, and bringing in no novelty."

"Pray come to me again, dearest! Your stay has been the greatest treat. It is very kind in
you to be so good to me."

"It is you who are good to me, dearest Lady Temple."

"I am afraid I shall hardly get you again. Your poor uncle will never be able to part with
you, so I won't ask you to promise, but if ever you can--"

"If ever I can! This has been a very happy time, dear Lady Temple," a confidence seemed trembling
on her lips, but she suppressed it. "I shall always think of you as the kindest friend a motherless
girl ever had! I will write to you from Bath. Good-bye--"

And there were all the boys in a row, little affectionate Hubert absolutely tearful, and Conrade
holding up a bouquet, on which he had spent all his money, having persuaded Coombe to ride
with him to the nursery garden at Avoncester to procure it. He looked absolutely shy and blushing,
when Bessie kissed him and promised to dry the leaves and keep them for ever.

CHAPTER XV. GO AND BRAY

 "Come, come, elder brother, you are too young in this!"--
                                              As You Like It

"Alick, I have something to say to you."

Captain Keith did not choose to let his sister travel alone, when he could help it, and therefore
was going to Bath with her, intending to return to Avoncester by the next down train. He made
no secret that he thought it a great deal of trouble, and had been for some time asleep, when,
at about two stations from Bath, Bessie having shut the little door in the middle of the carriage,
thus addressed him, "Alick, I have something to say to you, and I suppose I may as well say
it now."

She pressed upon his knee, and with an affected laziness, he drew his eyes wide open.

"Ah, well, I've been a sore plague to you, but I shall be off your hands now."

"Eh! whose head have you been turning?"

"Alick, what do you think of Lord Keith?"

Alick was awake enough now! "The old ass!" he exclaimed. "But at least you are out of his way now."

"Not at all. He is coming to Bath to-morrow to see my aunt."

"And you want me to go out to-morrow and stop him?"

"No, Alick, not exactly. I have been cast about the world too long not to be thankful."

"Elizabeth!"

"Do not look so very much surprised," she said, in her sweet pleading way. "May I not be supposed
able to feel that noble kindness and gracious manner, and be glad to have some one to look up to?"

"And how about Charlie Carleton?" demanded Alick, turning round full on her.

"For shame, Alick!" she exclaimed hotly; "you who were the one to persecute me about him, and
tell me all sorts of things about his being shallow and unprincipled, and not to be thought
of, you to bring him up against me now."

"I might think all you allege," returned Alick, gravely, "and yet be much amazed at the new
project."

Bessie laughed. "In fact you made a little romance, in which you acted the part of sapient
brother, and the poor little sister broke her heart ever after! You wanted such an entertainment
when you were lying on the sofa, so you created a heroine and a villain, and thundered down
to the rescue."

"Very pretty, Bessie, but it will not do. It was long after I was well again, and had joined."

"Then it was the well-considered effect of the musings of your convalescence! When you have
a sister to take care of, it is as well to feel that you are doing it."

"Now, Elizabeth," said her brother, with seriousness not to be laughed aside, and laying his
hand on hers, "before I hear another word on this matter, look me in the face and tell me deliberately
that you never cared for Carleton."

"I never thought for one moment of marrying him," said Bessie, haughtily. "If I ever had any
sort of mercy on him, it was all to tease you. There, are you satisfied?"

"I must be, I suppose," he replied, and he sighed heavily. "When was this settled?"

"Yesterday, walking up and down the esplanade. He will tell his brother to-day, and I shall
write to Lady Temple. Oh, Alick, he is so kind, he spoke so highly of you."

"I must say," returned Alick, in the same grave tone, "that if you wished for the care of an
old man, I should have thought my uncle the more agreeable of the two."

"He is little past fifty. You are very hard on him."

"On the contrary, I am sorry for him. You will always find it good for him to do whatever suits
yourself."

"Alick?" said his sister mournfully, "you have never forgotten or forgiven my girlish bits
of neglect after your wound."

"No, Bessie," he said, holding her hand kindly, "it is not the neglect or the girlishness,
but the excuses to me, still more to my uncle, and most of all to yourself. They are what make
me afraid for you in what you are going to take upon yourself."

She did not answer immediately, and he pursued--"Are you driven to this by dislike to living
at Bishopsworthy? If so, do not be afraid to tell me. I will make any arrangement, if you would
prefer living with Jane. We agreed once that it would be too expensive, but now I could let
you have another hundred a year."

"As if I would allow that, Alick! No, indeed! Lord Keith means you to have all my share."

"Does he? There are more words than one to that question. And pray is he going to provide properly
for his poor daughter in the West Indies?"

"I hope to induce him to take her into favour."

"Eh? and to make him give up to Colin Keith that Auchinvar estate that he ought to have had
when Archie Keith died?"

"You may be sure I shall do my best for the Colonel. Indeed, I do think Lord Keith will consent
to the marriage now."

"You have sacrificed yourself on that account?" he said, with irony in his tone, that he could
have repented the next moment, so good-humoured was her reply, "That is understood, so give
me the merit."

"The merit of, for his sake, becoming a grandmother. You have thought of the daughters? Mrs.
Comyn Menteith must be older than yourself."

"Three years," said Bessie, in his own tone of acceptance of startling facts, "and I shall
have seven grandchildren in all, so you see you must respect me."

"Do you know her sentiments?"

"I know what they will be when we have met. Never fear, Alick. If she were not married it might
be serious, being so, I have no fears."

Then came a silence, till a halt at the last station before Bath roused Alick again.

"Bessie," he said, in the low voice the stoppage permitted, "don't think me unkind. I believe
you have waited on purpose to leave me no time for expostulation, and what I have said has
sounded the more harsh in consequence."

"No, Alick," she said, "you are a kind brother in all but the constructions you put upon my
doings. I think it would be better if there were more difference between our ages. You are
a young guardian, over anxious, and often morbidly fanciful about me during your illness. I
think we shall be happier together when you no longer feel yourself responsible."

"The tables turned," muttered Alick.

"I am prepared for misconstruction," added Bessie. "I know it will be supposed to be the title;
the estate it cannot be, for you know how poor a property it is; but I do not mean to care
for the world. Your opinion is a different thing, and I thought you would have seen that I
could not be insensible to such dignified kindness, and the warmth of a nature that many people
think cold."

"I don't like set speeches, Bessie."

"Then believe me, Alick. May I not love the fine old man that has been so kind to me?"

"I hope you do," said Alick, slowly.

"And you can't believe it? Not with Lady Temple before you and hers was really an old man."

"Do not talk of her or Sir Stephen either. No, Bessie," he added more calmly after a time,
"I may be doing great injustice to you both, but I must speak what it is my duty to say. Lord
Keith is a hard, self-seeking man, who has been harsh and grasping towards his family, and
I verily believe came here bent on marriage, only because his brother was no longer under his
tyranny. He may not be harsh to you, because he is past his vigour, and if he really loves
you, you have a power of governing; but from what I know of you, I cannot believe in your loving
him enough to make such management much better than selfish manoeuvring. Therefore I cannot
think this marriage for your real welfare, or be other than bitterly grieved at it. Do not
answer, Bessie, but think this over, and if at any time this evening you feel the least doubt
of your happiness in this matter, telegraph to me, and I will stop him."

"Indeed, Alick," she answered, without anger, "I believe you are very anxious for my good."

It will readily be believed that Captain Keith received no telegram.

Nevertheless, as soon as his time was his own the next morning, he rode to Avonmouth and sought
out the Colonel, not perhaps with very defined hopes of making any change in his sister's intentions,
but feeling that some attempt on his own part must be made, if only to free himself from acquiescence,
and thinking that Colin, as late guardian to the one party, and brother to the other, was the
most proper medium.

Colonel Keith was taken by surprise at the manner in which his cordial greeting was met. He
himself had been far from displeased at his brother's communication; it was a great relief
to him personally, as well as on Lady Temple's account, and he had been much charmed at Bessie's
good sense and engaging graces. As to disparity of years, Lord Keith had really made himself
much younger of late, and there was much to excite a girl's romance in the courtesy of an elderly
man, the chief of her clan; moreover, the perfect affection and happiness Colin had been used
to witness in his general's family disposed him to make light of that objection; and he perceived
that his brother was sufficiently bewitched to be likely to be kind and indulgent to his bride.

He had not expected Alexander Keith to be as well pleased as he was himself, but he was not
prepared for his strong disapprobation, and earnest desire to find some means of prevention,
and he began to reassure him upon the placability of Mrs. Comyn Menteith, the daughter, as
well as upon his brother's kindness to the objects of his real affection.

"Oh, I am not afraid of that. She will manage him fast enough."

"Very likely, and for his good. Nor need you question his being a safe guide for her in higher
matters. Perhaps you are prejudiced against him because his relations with me have not been
happy, but candidly, in them you know the worst of him; and no doubt he thought himself purely
acting for my welfare. I know much more of him now that I have been at home with him, and I
was greatly struck with his real consideration for the good of all concerned with him."

"No, I am not thinking of Lord Keith. To speak it out, I cannot believe that my sister has
heart enough in this to justify her."

"Young girls often are more attracted by elderly men than by lads."

"You do not know Bessie as, I am sorry to say, I do," said Alick, speaking slowly and sadly,
and with a flush of shame on his cheek. "I do not say that she says anything untrue, but the
truth is not in her. She is one of those selfish people who are infinitely better liked than
those five hundred times their worth, because they take care to be always pleased."

"They give as much pleasure as they take."

"Yes, they take every one in. I wish to my heart I could be taken in too, but I have seen too
much of her avoidance of every service to my uncle that she did not like. I verily believe,
at this moment, that one great inducement with her is to elude the care of him."

"Stern judgments, Alick. I know you would not speak thus without warrant; but take it into
account that marriage makes many a girl's selfishness dual, and at last drowns the self."

"Yes, when it is a marriage of affection. But the truth must be told, Colonel. There was a
trumpery idle fellow always loitering at Littleworthy, and playing croquet. I set my face against
it with all my might, and she always laughed to scorn the notion that there was anything in
it, nor do I believe that she has heart enough to wish to marry him. I could almost say I wish
she had, but I never saw her show the same pleasure in any one's attentions, and I believe
he is gone out to Rio in hopes of earning means to justify his addresses."

Colonel Keith sat gravely considering what he knew would not be spoken lightly. "Do you mean
that there was attachment enough to make it desirable that you should tell my brother?"

"No, I could say nothing that she could not instantly contradict with perfect truth, though
not with perfect sincerity."

"Let me ask you one question, Alick--not a flattering one. May not some of these private impressions
of yours have been coloured by your long illness!"

"That is what Bessie gives every one to understand," said Alick, calmly. "She is right, to
a certain degree, that suffering sharpened my perceptions, and helplessness gave me time to
draw conclusions. If I had been well, I might have been as much enchanted as other people;
and if my uncle had not needed her care, and been neglected, I could have thought that I was
rendered exacting by illness. But I imagine all I have said is not of the slightest use, only,
if you think it right to tell your brother to talk to me, I would rather stand all the vituperation
that would fall on me than allow this to take place."

Colonel Keith walked up and down the room considering, whilst Alick sat in a dejected attitude,
shading his face, and not uttering how very bitter it had been to him to make the accusation,
nor how dear the sister really was.

"I see no purpose that would be answered," said Colonel Keith, coming to a pause at last; "you
have nothing tangible to mention, even as to the former affair that you suspect. I see a great
deal in your view of her to make you uneasy, but nothing that would not be capable of explanation,
above all to such a man as my brother. It would appear like mere malevolence."

"Never mind what it would appear," said Alick, who was evidently in such a ferment as his usually
passive demeanour would have seemed incapable of.

"If the appearance would entirely baffle the purpose, it must be considered," said the Colonel;
"and in this case it could only lead to estrangement, which would be a lasting evil. I conclude
that you have remonstrated with your sister."

"As much as she gave me time for; but of course that is breath spent in vain."

"Your uncle had the same means of judging as yourself."

"No, Colonel, he could do nothing! In the first place, there can be no correspondence with
him; and next, he is so devotedly fond of Bessie, that he would no more believe anything against
her than Lady Temple would. I have tried that more than once."

"Then, Alick, there is nothing for it but to let it take its course; and even upon your own
view, your sister will be much safer married than single."

"I had very little expectation of your saying anything else, but in common honesty I felt bound
to let you know."

"And now the best thing to be done is to forget all you have said."

"Which you will do the more easily as you think it an amiable delusion of mine. Well, so much
the better. I dare say you will never think otherwise, and I would willingly believe that my
senses went after my fingers' ends."

The Colonel almost believed so himself. He was aware of the miserably sensitive condition of
shattered nerve in which Alick had been sent home, and of the depression of spirits that had
ensued on the news of his father's death; and he thought it extremely probable that his weary
hours and solicitude for his gay young sister might have made molehills into mountains, and
that these now weighed on his memory and conscience. At least, this seemed the only way of
accounting for an impression so contrary to that which Bessie Keith made on every one else,
and, by his own avowal, on the uncle whom he so much revered. Every other voice proclaimed
her winning, amiable, obliging, considerate, and devoted to the service of her friends, with
much drollery and shrewdness of perception, tempered by kindness of heart and unwillingness
to give pain; and on that sore point of residence with the blind uncle, it was quite possibly
a bit of Alick's exaggerated feeling to imagine the arrangement so desirable--the young lady
might be the better judge.

On the whole, the expostulation left Colonel Keith more uncomfortable on Alick's account than
on that of his brother.

CHAPTER XVI. AN APPARITION.

 "And there will be auld Geordie Tanner,
  Who coft a young wife wi' his gowd."
                           JOANNA BAILLIE.

"Mamma," quoth Leoline, "I thought a woman must not marry her grandfather. And she called him
the patriarch of her clan."

"He is a cross old man," added Hubert. "He said children ought not to be allowed on the esplanade,
because he got into the way as I was pushing the perambulator."

"This was the reason," said Francis, gravely, "that she stopped me from braying at him. I shall
know what people are at, when they talk of disrespect another time."

"Don't talk of her," cried Conrade, flinging himself round; "women have no truth in them."

"Except the dear, darling, delightful mammy!" And the larger proportion of boys precipitated
themselves headlong upon her, so that any one but a mother would have been buffeted out of
breath in their struggles for embracing ground; and even Lady Temple found it a relief when
Hubert, having been squeezed out, bethought himself of extending the honourable exception to
Miss Williams, and thus effected a diversion. What would have been the young gentlemen's reception
of his lordship's previous proposal!

Yet in the fulness of her gladness the inconsistent widow, who had thought Lord Keith so much
too old for herself, gave her younger friend heartfelt congratulations upon the blessing of
being under fatherly direction and guidance. She was entrusted with the announcement to Rachel,
who received it with a simple "Indeed!" and left her cousin unmolested in her satisfaction,
having long relegated Fanny to the class of women who think having a friend about to be married
the next best thing to being married themselves, no matter to whom.

"Aspirations in women are mere delusions," was her compensating sigh to Grace. "There is no
truer saying, than that a woman will receive every man."

"I have always been glad that is aprocryphal," said Grace, "and Eastern women have no choice."

"Nor are Western women better than Eastern," said Rachel. "It is all circumstances. No mental
power or acuteness has in any instance that I have yet seen, been able to balance the propensity
to bondage. The utmost flight is, that the attachment should not be unworthy."

"I own that I am very much surprised," said Grace.

"I am not at all," said Rachel. "I have given up hoping better things. I was beginning to have
a high opinion of Bessie Keith's capabilities, but womanhood was at the root all the time;
and, as her brother says, she has had great disadvantages, and I can make excuses for her.
She had not her heart filled with one definite scheme of work and usefulness, such as deters
the trifling and designing."

"Like the F. U. E. E.?"

"Yes, the more I see of the fate of other women, the more thankful I am that my vocation has
taken a formed and developed shape."

And thus Rachel could afford to speak without severity of the match, though she abstained from
congratulation. She did not see Captain Keith for the next few days, but at last the two sisters
met him at the Cathedral door as they were getting into the carriage after a day's shopping
at Avoncester; and Grace offered her congratulations, in accordance with her mother's old fashioned
code.

"Thank you," he said; then turning to Rachel, "Did she write to you?"

"No."

"I thought not."

There was something marked in his tone, but his sister's silence was not of long duration,
for a letter arrived containing orders for lace, entreating that a high pressure might be put
on Mrs. Kelland, and containing beauteous devices for the veil, which was to be completed in
a fearfully short time, since the wedding was to be immediate, in order that Lord Keith might
spend Christmas and the ensuing cold months abroad. It was to take place at Bath, and was to
be as quiet as possible; "or else," wrote Miss Keith, "I should have been enchanted to have
overcome your reluctance to witness the base surrender of female rights. I am afraid you are
only too glad to be let off, only don't thank me, but circumstances."

Rachel's principles revolted at the quantity of work demanded of the victims to lace, and Grace
could hardly obtain leave to consult Mrs. Kelland. But she snapped at the order, for the honour
and glory of the thing, and undertook through the ramifications of her connexion to obtain
the whole bridal array complete. "For such a pleasant-spoken lady as Miss Keith, she would
sit up all night rather than disappoint her."

The most implacable person of all was the old housekeeper, Tibbie. She had been warmly attached
to Lady Keith, and resented her having a successor, and one younger than her daughters; and
above all, ever since the son and heir had died, she had reckoned on her own Master Colin coming
to the honours of the family, and regarded this new marriage as a crossing of Providence. She
vainly endeavoured to stir up Master Colin to remonstrate on his brother's "makin' siccan a
fule's bargain wi' yon glaikit lass. My certie, but he'll hae the warst o't, honest man; rinnin'
after her, wi' a' her whigmaleries an' cantrips. He'll rue the day that e'er he bowed his noble
head to the likes o' her, I'm jalousin."

It was to no purpose to remind her that the bride was a Keith in blood; her great grandfather
a son of the house of Gowanbrae; all the subsequent descendants brave soldiers.

"A Keith ca' ye her! It's a queer kin' o' Keiths she's comed o', nae better nor Englishers
that haena sae muckle's set fit in our bonny Scotland; an' sic scriechin', skirlin' tongues
as they hae, a body wad need to be gleg i' the uptak to understan' a word they say. Tak' my
word for't, Maister Colin, it's no a'thegither luve for his lordship's grey hairs that gars
yon gilpy lassock seek to become my Leddy Keith."

"Nay, Tibbie, if you find fault with such a sweet, winning young creature, I shall think it
is all because you will not endure a mistress at Gowanbrae over you."

"His lordship'll please himsel' wi' a leddy to be mistress o' Gowanbrae, but auld Tibbie'll
never cross the doorstane mair."

"Indeed you will, Tibbie; here are my brother's orders that you should go down, as soon as
you can conveniently make ready, and see about the new plenishing."

"They may see to the plenishing that's to guide it after han, an' that'll no be me. My lord'll
behove to tak' his orders aff his young leddy ance he's married on her, may be a whilie afore,
but that's no to bind ither folk, an' it's no to be thought that at my years I'm to be puttin'
up wi' a' ther new fangled English fykes an' nonsense maggots. Na, na, Maister Colin, his lordship'll
fend weel aneugh wantin' Tibbie; an' what for suld I leave yerself, an' you settin' up wi'
a house o' yer ain? Deed an' my mind's made up, I'll e'en bide wi' ye, an' nae mair about it."

"Stay, stay," cried Colin, a glow coming into his cheeks, "don't reckon without your host,
Tibbie. Do you think Gowanbrae the second is never to have any mistress but yourself?"

"Haud awa' wi' ye, laddie, I ken fine what ye'ra ettlin' at, but yon's a braw leddy, no like
thae English folk, but a woman o' understandin', an' mair by token I'm thinkin' she'll be gleg
aneugh to ken a body that'll serve her weel, an' see to the guidin' o' thae feckless queens
o' servant lasses, for bad's the best o' them ye'll fin' hereawa'. Nae fear but her an' me'll
put it up weel thegither, an' a' gude be wi' ye baith."

After this Colin resigned himself and his household to Tibbie's somewhat despotic government,
at least for the present. To Ermine's suggestion that her appellation hardly suited the dignity
of her station, he replied that Isabel was too romantic for southern ears, and that her surname
being the same as his own, he was hardly prepared to have the title of Mrs. Keith pre-occupied.
So after Mrs. Curtis's example, the world for the most part knew the colonel's housekeeper
as Mrs. Tibbs.

She might be a tyrant, but liberties were taken with her territory; for almost the first use
that the colonel made of his house was to ask a rheumatic sergeant, who had lately been invalided,
to come and benefit by the Avonmouth climate. Scottish hospitality softened Tibbie's heart,
and when she learnt that Sergeant O'Brien had helped to carry Master Colin into camp after
his wound, she thought nothing too good for him. The Colonel then ventured to add to the party
an exemplary consumptive tailor from Mr. Mitchell's parish, who might yet be saved by good
living and good air. Some growls were elicited, but he proved to be so deplorably the ninetieth
rather than the ninth part of a man, that Tibbie made it her point of honour to fatten him;
and the sergeant found him such an intelligent auditor of the Indian exploits of the --th Highlanders
that mutual respect was fully established, and high politeness reigned supreme, even though
the tailor could never be induced to delight in the porridge, on which the sergeant daily complimented
the housekeeper in original and magnificent metaphors.

Nor had the Colonel any anxieties in leaving the representatives of the three nations together
while he went to attend his brother's wedding. He proposed that Tibbie should conduct Rose
for the daily walk of which he had made a great point, thinking that the child did not get
exercise enough, since she was so averse to going alone upon the esplanade that her aunt forbore
to press it. She manifested the same reluctance to going out with Tibbie, and this the Colonel
ascribed to her fancying herself too old to be under the charge of a nurse. It was trying to
laugh her out of her dignity, but without eliciting an answer, when, one afternoon just as
they were entering together upon the esplanade, he felt her hand tighten upon his own with
a nervous frightened clutch, as she pressed tremulously to his side.

"What is it, my dear? That dog is not barking at you. He only wants to have a stick thrown
into the sea for him."

"Oh not the dog! It was--"

"Was, what?"

"HIM!" gasped Rose.

"Who?" inquired the Colonel, far from prepared for the reply, in a terrified whisper,--

"Mr. Maddox."

"My dear child! Which, where?"

"He is gone! he is past. Oh, don't turn back! Don't let me see him again."

"You don't suppose he could hurt you, my dear."

"No," hesitated Rose, "not with you."

"Nor with any one."

"I suppose not," said Rose, common sense reviving, though her grasp was not relaxed.

"Would it distress you very much to try to point him out to me?" said the Colonel, in his irresistibly
sweet tone.

"I will. Only keep hold of my hand, pray," and the little hand trembled so much that he felt
himself committing a cruel action in leading her along the esplanade, but there was no fresh
start of recognition, and when they had gone the whole length, she breathed more freely, and
said, "No, he was not there."

Recollecting how young she had been at the time of Maddox's treason, the Colonel began to doubt
if her imagination had not raised a bugbear, and he questioned her, "My dear, why are you so
much afraid, of this person? What do you know about him?"

"He told wicked stories of my papa," said Rose, very low.

"True, but he could not hurt you. You don't think he goes about like Red Ridinghood's wolf?"

"No, I am not so silly now."

"Are you sure you know him? Did you often see him in your papa's house?"

"No, he was always in the laboratory, and I might not go there."

"Then you see, Rose, it must be mere fancy that you saw him, for you could not even know him
by sight."

"It was not fancy," said Rose, gentle and timid as ever, but still obviously injured at the
tone of reproof.

"My dear child," said Colonel Keith, with some exertion of patience, "you must try to be reasonable.
How can you possibly recognise a man that you tell me you never saw?"

"I said I never saw him in the house," said Rose with a shudder; "but they said if ever I told
they would give me to the lions in the Zoological Gardens."

"Who said so?"

"He, Mr. Maddox and Maria," she answered, in such trepidation that he could scarcely hear her.

"But you are old and wise enough now to know what a foolish and wicked threat that was, my dear."

"Yes, I was a little girl then, and knew no better, and once I did tell a lie when mamma asked
me, and now she is dead, and I can never tell her the truth."

Colin dreaded a public outbreak of the sobs that heaved in the poor child's throat, but she
had self-control enough to restrain them till he had led her into his own library, where he
let her weep out her repentance for the untruth, which, wrested from her by terror, had weighed
so long on her conscience. He felt that he was sparing Ermine something by receiving the first
tempest of tears, in the absolute terror and anguish of revealing the secret that had preyed
on her with mysterious horror.

"Now tell me all about it, my dear little girl. Who was this Maria?"

"Maria was my nurse when I lived at home. She used to take me out walking," said Rose, pressing
closer to his protecting breast, and pausing as though still afraid of her own words.

"Well," he said, beginning to perceive, "and was it than that you saw this Maddox?"

"Yes, he used to come and walk with us, and sit under the trees in Kensington Gardens with
her. And sometimes he gave me lemon-drops, but they said if ever I told, the lions should have
me. I used to think I might be saved like Daniel; but after I told the lie, I knew I should
not. Mamma asked me why my fingers were sticky, and I did say it was from a lemon-drop, but
there were Maria's eyes looking at me; oh, so dreadful, and when mamma asked who gave it to
me, and Maria said, 'I did, did not I, Miss Rose?' Oh, I did not seem able to help saying 'yes.'"

"Poor child! And you never dared to speak of it again?"

"Oh, no! I did long to tell; but, oh, one night it was written up in letters of fire, 'Beware
of the Lions.'"

"Terror must have set you dreaming, my dear."

"No," said Rose, earnestly. "I was quite awake. Papa and mamma were gone out to dine and sleep,
and Maria would put me to bed half an hour too soon. She read me to sleep, but by-and-by I
woke up, as I always did at mamma's bed time, and the candle was gone, and there were those
dreadful letters in light over the door."

She spoke with such conviction that he became persuaded that all was not delusion, and asked
what she did.

"I jumped up, and screamed, and opened the door; but there they were growling in papa's dressing-room."

"They, the lions? Oh, Rose, you must know that was impossible."

"No, I did not see any lions, but I heard the growl, and Mr. Maddox coughed, and said, 'Here
they come,' and growled again."

"And you--?"

"I tumbled into bed again, and rolled up my head in the clothes, and prayed that it might be
day, and it was at last!"

"Poor child! Indeed, Rose, I do not wonder at your terror, I never heard of a more barbarous
trick."

"Was it a trick?" said Rose, raising a wonderfully relieved and hopeful face.

"Did you never hear of writing in phosphorus, a substance that shines at night as the sea sometimes
does?"

"Aunt Ailie has a book with a story about writing in fiery letters, but it frightened me so
much that I never read to the end."

"Bring it to me, and we will read it together, and then you will see that such a cruel use
can be made of phosphorus."

"It was unkind of them," said Rose, sadly, "I wonder if they did it for fun?"

"Where did you sleep?"

"I had a little room that opened into mamma's."

"And where was all this growling?"

"In papa's room. The door was just opposite to mine, and was open. All the light was there,
you know. Mamma's room was dark, but there was a candle in the dressing-room."

"Did you see anything?"

"Only the light. It was such a moment. I don't think I saw Mr. Maddox, but I am quite certain
I heard him, for he had an odd little cough."

"Then, Rose, I have little doubt that all this cruelty to you, poor inoffensive little being,
was to hide some plots against your father."

She caught his meaning with the quickness of a mind precocious on some points though childish
on others. "Then if I had been brave and told the truth, he might never have hurt papa."

"Mind, I do not know, and I never thought of blaming you, the chief sufferer! No, don't begin
to cry again."

"Ah! but I did tell a lie. And I never can confess it to mamma," she said, recurring to the
sad lament so long suppressed.

She found a kind comforter, who led her to the higher sources of consolation, feeling all the
time the deep self-accusation with which the sight of sweet childish penitence must always
inspire a grown person.

"And now you will not fear to tell your aunt," he added, "only it should be when you can mention
it without such sad crying."

"Telling you is almost as good as telling her," said Rose, "and I feel safe with you," she
added, caressingly drawing his arm round her. "Please tell Aunt Ermine, for my crying does
give her such a headache."

"I will, then, and I think when we all know it, the terrors will leave you."

"Not when I see Mr. Maddox. Oh, please now you know why, don't make me walk without you. I
do know now that he could not do anything to me, but I can't help feeling the fright. And,
oh! if he was to speak to me!"

"You have not seen him here before?"

"Yes I have, at least I think so. Once when Aunt Ermine sent me to the post-office, and another
time on the esplanade. That is why I can't bear going out without you or Aunt Ailie. Indeed,
it is not disliking Tibbie."

"I see it is not, my dear, and we will say no more about it till you have conquered your alarm;
but remember, that he is not likely to know you again. You must be more changed in these three
years than he is."

This consideration seemed to reassure Rose greatly, and her next inquiry was, "Please, are
my eyes very red for going home?"

"Somewhat mottled--something of the York and Lancaster rose. Shall I leave you under Tibbie's
care till the maiden blush complexion returns, and come back and fetch you when you have had
a grand exhibition of my Indian curiosities?"

"Have you Indian curiosities! I thought they were only for ladies?"

"Perhaps they are. Is Tibbie guard enough? You know there's an Irish sergeant in the house
taller than I am, if you want a garrison?"

"Oh, I am not afraid, only these eyes."

"I will tell her you have been frightened, and she shall take no notice."

Tibbie was an admirer of Rose and gladly made her welcome, while the Colonel repaired to Ermine,
and greatly startled her by the disclosure of the miseries that had been inflicted on the sensitive
child.

It had indeed been known that there had been tyranny in the nursery, and to this cause the
aunts imputed the startled wistful expression in Rose's eyes; but they had never questioned
her, thinking that silence would best wear out the recollection. The only wonder was that her
senses had not been permanently injured by that night of terror, which accounted for her unconquerable
dread of sleeping in the dark; and a still more inexplicable horror of the Zoological Gardens,
together with many a nervous misery that Ermine had found it vain to combat. The Colonel asked
if the nurse's cruelty had been the cause of her dismissal?

"No, it was not discovered till after her departure. Her fate has always been a great grief
to us, though we little thought her capable of using Rose in this way. She was one of the Hathertons.
You must remember the name, and the pretty picturesque hovel on the Heath."

"The squatters that were such a grievance to my uncle. Always suspected of poaching, and never
caught."

"Exactly. Most of the girls turned out ill, but this one, the youngest, was remarkably intelligent
and attractive at school. I remember making an excuse for calling her into the garden for you
to see and confess that English beauty exceeded Scottish, and you called her a gipsy and said
we had no right to her."

"So it was those big black eyes that had that fiendish malice in them!"

"Ah! if she fell into Maddox's hands, I wonder the less. She showed an amount of feeling about
my illness that won Ailie's heart, and we had her for a little handmaid to help my nurse. Then,
when we broke up from home, we still kept her, and every one used to be struck with her looks
and manner. She went on as well as possible, and Lucy set her heart on having her in the nursery.
And when the upper nurse went away, she had the whole care of Rose. We heard only of her praises
till, to our horror, we found she had been sent away in disgrace at a moment's warning. Poor
Lucy was young, and so much shocked as only to think of getting her out of the house, not of
what was to become of her, and all we could learn was that she never went home."

"How long was this before the crash?"

"It was only a few weeks before the going abroad, but they had been absent nearly a year. No
doubt Maddox must have made her aid in his schemes. You say Rose saw him?"

"So she declares, and there is an accuracy of memory about her that I should trust to. Should
you or Alison know him?"

"No, we used to think it a bad sign that Edward never showed him to us. I remember Alison being
disappointed that he was not at the factory the only time she saw it."

"I do not like going away while he may be lurking about. I could send a note to-night, explaining
my absence."

"No, no," exclaimed Ermine, "that would be making me as bad as poor little Rose. If he be here
ever so much he has done his worst, and Edward is out of his reach. What could he do to us?
The affairs were wound up long ago, and we have literally nothing to be bullied out of. No,
I don't think he could make me believe in lions in any shape."

"You strong-minded woman! You want to emulate the Rachel."

"You have brought her," laughed Ermine at the sound of the well-known knock, and Rachel entered
bag in hand.

"I was in hopes of meeting you," she said to the Colonel. "I wanted to ask you to take charge
of some of these;" and she produced a packet of prospectuses of a "Journal of Female Industry,"
an illustrated monthly magazine, destined to contain essays, correspondence, reviews, history,
tales, etc., to be printed and illustrated in the F. U. E. E.

"I hoped," said Rachel, "to have begun with the year, but we are not forward enough, and indeed
some of the expenses require a subscription in advance. A subscriber in advance will have the
year's numbers for ten shillings, instead of twelve; and I should be much obliged if you would
distribute a few of these at Bath, and ask Bessie to do the same. I shall set her name down
at the head of the list, as soon as she has qualified it for a decoy."

"Are these printed at the F. U. E. E.?"

"No, we have not funds as yet. Mr. Mauleverer had them done at Bristol, where he has a large
connexion as a lecturer, and expects to get many subscribers. I brought these down as soon
as he had left them with me, in hopes that you would kindly distribute them at the wedding.
And I wished," added she to Ermine, "to ask you to contribute to our first number."

"Thank you," and the doubtful tone induced Rachel to encourage her diffidence.

"I know you write a great deal, and I am sure you must produce something worthy to see the
light. I have no scruple in making the request, as I know Colonel Keith agrees with me that
womanhood need not be an extinguisher for talent."

"I am not afraid of him," Ermine managed to say without more smile than Rachel took for gratification.

"Then if you would only entrust me with some of your fugitive reflections, I have no doubt
that something might be made of them. A practised hand," she added with a certain editorial
dignity, "can always polish away any little roughnesses from inexperience."

Ermine was choking with laughter at the savage pulls that Colin was inflicting on his moustache,
and feeling silence no longer honest, she answered in an odd under tone, "I can't plead inexperience."

"No!" cried Rachel. "You have written; you have not published!"

"I was forced to do whatever brought grist to the mill," said Ermine. "Indeed," she added,
with a look as if to ask pardon; "our secrets have been hardly fair towards you, but we made
it a rule not to spoil our breadwinner's trade by confessing my enormities."

"I assure you," said the Colonel, touched by Rachel's appalled look, "I don't know how long
this cautious person would have kept me in the dark if she had not betrayed herself in the
paper we discussed the first day I met you."

"The 'Traveller,'" said Rachel, her eyes widening like those of a child. "She is the 'Invalid'!"

"There, I am glad to have made a clean breast of it," said Ermine.

"The 'Invalid'!" repeated Rachel. "It is as bad as the Victoria Cross."

"There is a compliment, Ermine, for which you should make your bow," said Colin.

"Oh, I did not mean that," said Rachel; "but that it was as great a mistake as I made about
Captain Keith, when I told him his own story, and denied his being the hero, till I actually
saw his cross," and she spoke with a genuine simplicity that almost looked like humour, ending
with, "I wonder why I am fated to make such mistakes!"

"Preconceived notions," said Ermine, smiling; "your theory suffices you, and you don't see
small indications."

"There may be something in that," said Rachel, thoughtfully, "it accounts for Grace always
seeing things faster than I did."

"Did Mr.--, your philanthropist, bring you this today?" said the Colonel, taking up the paper
again, as if to point a practical moral to her confession of misjudgments.

"Mr. Mauleverer? Yes; I came down as soon as he had left me, only calling first upon Fanny.
I am very anxious for contributions. If you would only give me a paper signed by the 'Invalid,'
it would be a fortune to the institution."

Ermine made a vague answer that she doubted whether the 'Invalid' was separable from the 'Traveller,'
and Rachel presently departed with her prospectus, but without having elicited a promise.

"Intolerable!" exclaimed the Colonel. "She was improving under Bessie's influence, but she
has broken out worse than ever. 'Journal of Female Industry!' 'Journal of a Knight of Industry,'
might be a better title. You will have nothing to do with it, Ermine?"

"Certainly not as the 'Invalid,' but I owe her something for having let her run into this scrape
before you."

"As if you could have hindered her! Come, don't waste time and brains on a companion for Curatocult."

"You make me so idle and frivolous that I shall be expelled from the 'Traveller,' and obliged
to take refuge in the 'Female Industry Journal.' Shall you distribute the prospectuses?"

"I shall give one to Bessie! That is if I go at all."

"No, no, there is no valid reason for staying away. Even if we were sure that Rose was right,
nothing could well come of it, and your absence would be most invidious."

"I believe I am wanted to keep Master Alick in order, but if you have the least feeling that
you would be more at ease with me at home--"

"That is not a fair question," said Ermine, smiling. "You know very well that you ought to go."

"And I shall try to bring back Harry Beauchamp," added the Colonel. "He would be able to identify
the fellow."

"I do not know what would be gained by that."

"I should know whom to watch."

Ermine had seen so much of Rose's nervous timidity, and had known so many phantoms raised by
it, that she attached little importance to the recognition, and when she went over the matter
with her little niece, it was with far more thought of the effect of the terror, and of the
long suppressed secret, upon the child's moral and physical nature, than with any curiosity
as to the subject of her last alarm. She was surprised to observe that Alison was evidently
in a state of much more restlessness and suspense than she was conscious of in herself, during
Colin's absence, and attributed this to her sister's fear of Maddox's making some inroad upon
her in her long solitary hours, in which case she tried to reassure her by promises to send
at once for Mr. Mitchell or for Coombe.

Alison let these assurances be given to her, and felt hypocritical for receiving them in silence.
Her grave set features had tutored themselves to conceal for ever one page in the life that
Ermine thought was entirely revealed to her. Never had Ermine known that brotherly companionship
had once suddenly assumed the unwelcome aspect of an affection against which Alison's heart
had been steeled by devotion to the sister whose life she had blighted. Her resolution had
been unswerving, but its full cost had been unknown to her, till her adherence to it had slackened
the old tie of hereditary friendship towards others of her family; and even when marriage should
have obliterated the past, she still traced resentment in the hard judgment of her brother's
conduct, and even in the one act of consideration that it galled her to accept.

There had been no meeting since the one decisive interview just before she had left her original
home, and there were many more bitter feelings than could be easily assuaged in looking forward
to a renewal of intercourse, when all too late, she knew that she should soon be no longer
needed by her sister. She tried to feel it all just retribution, she tried to rejoice in Ermine's
coming happiness; she tried to believe that the sight of Harry Beauchamp, as a married man,
would be the best cure for her; she blamed and struggled with herself: and after all, her distress
was wasted, Harry Beauchamp had not chosen to come home with his cousin, who took his unwillingness
to miss a hunting-day rather angrily and scornfully. Alison put her private interpretation
on the refusal, and held aloof, while Colin owned to Ermine his vexation and surprise at the
displeasure that Harry Beauchamp maintained against his old schoolfellow, and his absolute
refusal to listen to any arguments as to his innocence.

This seemed to have been Colin's prominent interest in his expedition to Bath; the particulars
of the wedding were less easily drawn from him. The bride had indeed been perfection, all was
charming wherever she brought her ready grace and sweetness, and she had gratified the Colonel
by her affectionate messages to Ermine, and her evident intention to make all straight between
Lord Keith and his daughter Mary. But the Clare relations had not made a favourable impression;
the favourite blind uncle had not been present, in spite of Bessie's boast, and it was suspected
that Alick had not chosen to forward his coming. Alick had devolved the office of giving his
sister away upon the Colonel, as her guardian, and had altogether comported himself with more
than his usual lazy irony, especially towards the Clare cousinhood, who constantly buzzed round
him, and received his rebuffs as delightful jests and compliments, making the Colonel wonder
all the more at the perfect good taste and good breeding of his new sister-in-law, who had
spent among them all the most critical years of her life.

She had been much amused with the prospectus of the "Journal of Female Industry," but she sent
word to Rachel that she advised her not to publish any list of subscribers--the vague was far
more impressive than the certain. The first number must be sent to her at Paris, and trust
her for spreading its fame!

The Colonel did not add to his message her recommendation that the frontispiece should represent
the Spinster's Needles, with the rescue of Don as the type of female heroism. Nor did he tell
how carefully he had questioned both her and Rachel as to the date of that interesting adventure.

CHAPTER XVII. THE SIEGE.

"The counterfeit presentment."--Hamlet.

Christmas came, and Rachel agreed with Mr. Mauleverer that it was better not to unsettle the
children at the F. U. E. E. by permitting them to come home for holidays, a decision which
produced much discontent in their respective families. Alison, going to Mrs. Morris with her
pupils, to take her a share of Christmas good cheer, was made the receptacle of a great lamentation
over the child's absence; and, moreover, that the mother had not been allowed to see her alone,
when taken by Miss Rachel to the F. U. E. E.

"Some one ought to take it up," said Alison, as she came home, in her indignation. "Who knows
what may be done to those poor children? Can't Mr. Mitchell do something?"

But Mr. Mitchell was not sufficiently at home to interfere. He was indeed negotiating an exchange
with Mr. Touchett, but until this was effected he could hardly meddle in the matter, and he
was besides a reserved, prudent man, slow to commit himself, so that his own impression of
the asylum could not be extracted from him. Here, however, Colonel Keith put himself forward.
He had often been asked by Rachel to visit the F. U. E. E., and he surprised and relieved Alison
by announcing his intention of going over to St. Norbert's alone and without notice, so as
to satisfy himself as far as might be as to the treatment of the inmates, and the genuineness
of Mauleverer's pretensions. He had, however, to wait for weather that would not make the adventure
one of danger to him, and he regarded the cold and rain with unusual impatience, until, near
the end of January, he was able to undertake his expedition.

After much knocking and ringing the door was opened to him by a rude, slatternly, half-witted
looking charwoman, or rather girl, who said "Master was not in," and nearly shut the door in
his face. However, he succeeded in sending in his card, backed by the mention of Lady Temple
and Miss Curtis; and this brought out Mrs. Rawlins, her white streamers floating stiff behind
her, full of curtsies and regrets at having to refuse any friend of Miss Curtis, but Mr. Mauleverer's
orders were precise and could not be infringed. He was gone to lecture at Bristol, but if the
gentleman would call at any hour he would fix to morrow or next day, Mr. Mauleverer would be
proud to wait on him.

When he came at the appointed time, all was in the normal state of the institution. The two
little girls in white pinafores sat upon their bench with their books before them, and their
matron presiding over them; Mr. Mauleverer stood near, benignantly attentive to the children
and obligingly so to the visitor, volunteering information and answering all questions. Colonel
Keith tried to talk to the children, but when he asked one of them whether she liked drawing
better than lace-making her lips quivered, and Mrs. Rawlins replied for her, that she was never
happy except with a pencil in her hand. "Show the gentleman, my dear," and out came a book
of studios of cubes, globes, posts, etc., while Mr. Mauleverer talked artistically of drawing
from models. Next, he observed on a certain suspicious blackness of little Mary's eye, and
asked her what she had done to herself. But the child hung her head, and Mrs. Rawlins answered
for her, "Ah! Mary is ashamed to tell: but the gentleman will think nothing of it, my dear.
He knows that children will be children, and I cannot bear to check them, the dears."

More briefly Mr. Mauleverer explained that Mary had fallen while playing on the stairs; and
with this superficial inspection he must needs content himself, though on making inquiry at
the principal shops, he convinced himself that neither Mr. Mauleverer nor the F. U. E. E. were
as well known at St. Norbert's as at Avonmouth. He told Rachel of his expedition, and his interest
in her work gratified her, though she would have preferred being his cicerone. She assured
him that he must have been very much pleased, especially with the matron.

"She is a handsome woman, and reminds me strongly of a face I saw in India."

"There are some classes of beauty and character that have a remarkable sameness of feature,"
began Rachel.

"Don't push that theory, for your matron's likeness was a very handsome Sepoy havildar whom
we took at Lucknow, a capital soldier before the mutiny, and then an ineffable ruffian."

"The mutiny was an infectious frenzy; so that you establish nothing against that cast of countenance."

Never, indeed, was there more occasion for perseverance in Rachel's championship. Hitherto
Mrs. Kelland had been nailed to her pillow by the exigencies of Lady Keith's outfit, and she
and her minions had toiled unremittingly, without a thought beyond their bobbins, but as soon
as the postponed orders were in train, and the cash for the wedding veil and flounces had been
transmitted, the good woman treated herself and her daughters to a holiday at St. Norbert's,
without intimating her intention to her patronesses; and the consequence was a formal complaint
of her ungrateful and violent language to Mrs. Rawlins on being refused admission to the asylum
without authority from Mr. Mauleverer or Miss Curtis.

Rachel, much displeased, went down charged with reproof and representation, but failed to produce
the desired effect upon the aunt.

"It was not right," Mrs. Kelland reiterated, "that the poor lone orphan should not see her
that was as good as a mother, when she had no one else to look to. They that kept her from
her didn't do it for no good end."

"But, Mrs. Kelland, rules are rules."

"Don't tell me of no rules, Miss Rachel, as would cut a poor child off from her friends as
her mother gave her to on her death-bed. 'Sally,' says she, 'I know you will do a mother's
part by that poor little maid;' and so I did till I was over persuaded to let her go to that
there place."

"Indeed you have nothing to regret there, Mrs. Kelland; you know, that with the kindest intentions,
you could not make the child happy."

"And why was that, ma'am, but because her mother was a poor creature from town, that had never
broke her to her work. I never had the trouble with a girl of my own I had with her. 'It's
all for your good, Lovedy,' I says to her, and poor child, maybe she wishes herself back again."

"I assure you, I always find the children well and happy, and it is very unfair on the matron
to be angry with her for being bound by rules, to which she must submit, or she would transgress
the regulations under which we have laid her! It is not her choice to exclude you, but her duty."

"Please, ma'am, was it her duty to be coming out of the house in a 'genta coloured silk dress,
and a drab bonnet with a pink feather in it?" said Mrs. Kelland, with a certain, air of simplicity,
that provoked Rachel to answer sharply--

"You don't know what you are talking about, Mrs. Kelland."

"Well, ma'am, it was a very decent woman as told me, an old lady of the name of Drinkwater,
as keeps a baker's shop on the other side of the way, and she never sees bread enough go in
for a cat to make use of, let alone three poor hungry children. She says all is not right there,
ma'am."

"Oh, that must be mere gossip and spite at not having the custom. It quite accounts for what
she may say, and indeed you brought it all on yourself by not having asked me for a note. You
must restrain yourself. What you may say to me is of no importance, but you must not go and
attack those who are doing the very best for your niece."

Rachel made a dignified exit, but before she had gone many steps, she was assailed by tearful
Mrs. Morris: "Oh, Miss Rachel, if it would not be displeasing to you, would you give me an
order for my child to come home. Ours is a poor place, but I would rather make any shift for
us to live than that she should be sent away to some place beyond sea."

"Some place beyond sea!"

"Yes, ma'am. I beg your pardon, ma'am, but they do say that Mr. Maw-and-liver is a kidnapper,
ma'am, and that he gets them poor children to send out to Botany Bay to be wives to the convicts
as are transported, Miss Rachel, if you'll excuse it. They say there's a whole shipload of
them at Plymouth, and I'd rather my poor Mary came to the Union at home than to the like of
that, Miss Rachel."

This alarm, being less reasonable, was even more difficult to talk down than Mrs. Kelland's,
and Rachel felt as if there wore a general conspiracy to drive her distracted, when on going
home she found the drawing-room occupied by a pair of plump, paddy-looking old friends, who
had evidently talked her mother into a state of nervous alarm. On her entrance, Mrs. Curtis
begged the gentleman to tell dear Rachel what he had been saying, but this he contrived to
avoid, and only on his departure was Rachel made aware that he and his wife had come, fraught
with tidings that she was fostering a Jesuit in disguise, that Mrs. Rawlins was a lady abbess
of a new order, Rachel herself in danger of being entrapped, and the whole family likely to
be entangled in the mysterious meshes, which, as good Mrs. Curtis more than once repeated,
would be "such a dreadful thing for poor Fanny and the boys."

Her daughters, by soothing and argument, allayed the alarm, though the impression was not easily
done away with, and they feared that it might yet cost her a night's rest. These attacks--absurd
as they were--induced Rachel to take measures for their confutation, by writing to Mr. Mauleverer,
that she thought it would be well to allow the pupils to pay a short visit to their homes,
so as to satisfy their friends.

She did not receive an immediate answer, and was beginning to feel vexed and anxious, though
not doubtful, when Mr. Mauleverer arrived, bringing two beautiful little woodcuts, as illustrations
for the "Journal of Female Industry." They were entitled "The free maids that weave their thread
with bones," and one called "the Ideal," represented a latticed cottage window, with roses,
honeysuckles, cat, beehives, and all conventional rural delights, around a pretty maiden singing
at her lace-pillow; while the other yclept the "Real," showed a den of thin, wizened, half-starved
girls, cramped over their cushions in a lace-school. The design was Mr. Mauleverer's, the execution
the children's; and neatly mounted on cards, the performance did them great credit, and there
was great justice in Mr. Manleverer's view that while they were making such progress, it would
be a great pity to interrupt the preparation of the first number by sending the children home
even for a few hours. Rachel consented the more readily to the postponement of the holiday,
as she had now something to show in evidence of the reality of their doings, and she laid hands
upon the cuts, in spite of Mr. Mauleverer's unwillingness that such mere essays should be displayed
as specimens of the art of the F. U. E. E. When the twenty pounds which she advanced should
have been laid out in blocks, ink, and paper, there was little doubt that the illustrations
of the journal would be a triumphant instance of female energy well directed.

Meantime she repaired to Ermine Williams to persuade her to write an article upon the two pictures,
a paper in the lively style in which Rachel herself could not excel, pointing out the selfishness
of wilfully sentimental illusions. She found Ermine alone, but her usual fate pursued her in
the shape of, first, Lady Temple, then both Colonel and Captain Keith, and little Rose, who
all came in before she had had time to do more than explain her intentions. Rose had had another
fright, and again the Colonel had been vainly trying to distinguish the bugbear of her fancy,
and she was clinging all the more closely to him because he was the only person of her aquaintance
who did not treat her alarms as absolutely imaginary.

Rachel held her ground, well pleased to have so many spectators of this triumphant specimen
of the skill of her asylum, and Lady Temple gave much admiration, declaring that no one ought
to wear lace again without being sure that no one was tortured in making it, and that when
she ordered her new black lace shawl of Mrs. Kelland, it should be on condition that the poor
girls were not kept so very hard at work.

"You will think me looking for another Sepoy likeness," said the Colonel, "but I am sure I
have met this young lady or her twin sister somewhere in my travels."

"It is a satire on conventional pictures," said Rachel.

"Now, I remember," he continued. "It was when I was laid up with my wound at a Dutch boer's
till I could get to Cape Town. My sole reading was one number of the 'Illustrated News,' and
I made too good acquaintance with that lady's head, to forget her easily."

"Of course," said Rachel, "it is a reminiscence of the painting there represented."

"What was the date?" asked Alick Keith.

The Colonel was able to give it with some precision.

"You are all against me," said Rachel, "I see you are perfectly determined that there shall
be something wrong about every performance of the F. U. E. E."

"No, don't say so," began Fanny, with gentle argument, but Alick Keith put in with a smile,
"It is a satisfaction to Miss Curtis."

"Athanasius against the world," she answered.

"Athanasius should take care that his own foot is firm, his position incontrovertible," said
Ermine.

"Well!"

"Then," said Ermine, "will you allow these little pictures to be examined into?"

"I don't know what you mean."

"Look here," and the Colonel lifted on the table a scrap-book that Rose had been quietly opening
on his knee, and which contained an etching of a child playing with a dog, much resembling
the style of the drawing.

"Who did that, my dear?" he asked.

"Mamma had it," was Rose's reply; "it was always in my old nursery scrap-hook."

"Every one knows," said Rachel, "that a woodcut is often like an etching, and an etching like
a woodcut. I do not know what you are driving at."

"The little dogs and all," muttered Alick, as Rachel glanced rather indignantly at Rose and
her book so attentively examined by the Colonel.

"I know," repeated Rachel, "that there is a strong prejudice against Mr. Mauleverer, and that
it is entertained by many whom I should have hoped to see above such weakness but when I brought
these tangible productions of his system, as evidence of his success, I did not expect to see
them received with a covert distrust, which I own I do not understand. I perceive now why good
works find so much difficulty in prospering."

"I believe," said Alick Keith, "that I am to have the honour of dining at the Homestead on Monday?"

"Yes. The Greys spend the day with us, and it is Emily's due to have a good sight of you."

"Then will you let me in the meantime take my own measures with regard to these designs. I
will not hurt or injure them in any way; they shall be deposited here in Miss William's hands,
and I promise you that if I have been able to satisfy myself as to the means of their production,
Simon Skinflint shall become a subscriber to the F. U. E. E. Is it a bargain?"

"I never made such a bargain," said Rachel, puzzled.

"Is that a reason for not doing so?"

"I don't know what you mean to do. Not to molest that poor Mrs. Rawlins. I will not have that
done."

"Certainly not. All I ask of you is that these works of art should remain here with Miss Williams,
as a safe neutral, and that you should meet me here on Monday, when I will undertake to convince
myself."

"Not me?" cried Rachel.

"Who would make it part of his terms to convince a lady?"

"You mean to say," exclaimed Rachel, considerably nettled, "that as a woman, I am incapable
of being rationally convinced!"

"The proverb does not only apply to women," said Ermine, coming to her rescue; but Rachel,
stung by the arch smile and slight bow of Captain Keith, continued--"Let the proof be convincing,
and I will meet it as candidly as it is the duty of all reasonable beings to do. Only let me
first know what you mean to prove."

"The terms are these then, are they not, Miss Williams? I am to come on Monday, February the
5th, prepared to test whether these designs are what they profess to be, and Miss Curtis undertakes
to be convinced by that proof, provided it be one that should carry conviction to a clear,
unbiassed mind. I undertake, on the other hand, that if the said proof should be effectual,
a mythical personage called Simon Skinflint shall become a supporter of the Female Union for
Englishwomen's Employment."

Ho spoke with his own peculiar slowness and gravity, and Rachel, uncertain whether he were
making game of her or not, looked perplexed, half on the defence, half gratified. The others
were greatly amused, and a great deal surprised at Alick's unwonted willingness to take trouble
in the matter. After a few moment's deliberation, Rachel said, "Well, I consent, provided that
my candour be met by equal candour on the other side, and you will promise that if this ordeal
succeeds, you will lay aside all prejudice against Mauleverer."

A little demur as to the reasonableness of this stipulation followed, but the terms finally
were established. Mr. and Mrs. Grey, old family friends, had long been engaged to spend the
ensuing Monday at the Homestead. The elder daughter, an old intimate of Grace's, had married
an Indian civil servant, whom Colonel Keith was invited to meet at luncheon, and Captain Keith
at dinner, and Alick was further to sleep at Gowanbrae. Lady Temple, who was to have been of
the party, was called away, much to her own regret, by an appointment with the dentist of St.
Norbert's, who was very popular, and proportionately despotic, being only visible at his own
times, after long appointment. She would therefore be obliged to miss Alick's ordeal, though
as she said, when Rachel--finding it vain to try to outstay so many--had taken her leave, "I
should much like to see how it will turn out. I do believe that there is some difference in
the colour of the ink in the middle and at the edge, and if those people are deceiving Rachel,
who knows what they may be doing to the poor children?"

It was exactly what every one was thinking, but it seemed to have fresh force when it struck
the milder and slower imagination, and Lady Temple, seeing that her observation told upon those
around her, became more impressed with its weight.

"It really is dreadful to have sent those little girls there without any one knowing what anybody
does to them," she repeated.

"It makes even Alick come out in a new character," said the Colonel, turning round on him.

"Why," returned Alick, "my sister had so much to do with letting the young lady in for the
scrape, that it is just as well to try to get her out of it. In fact, I think we have all sat
with our hands before us in a shamefully cool manner, till we are all accountable for the humbuggery."

"When it comes to your reproaching us with coolness, Captain Keith, the matter becomes serious,"
returned Colin.

"It does become serious," was the answer; "it is hard that a person without any natural adviser
should have been allowed to run headlong, by force of her own best qualities, into the hands
of a sharper. I do not see how a man of any proper feeling, can stand by without doing something
to prevent the predicament from becoming any worse."

"If you can," said Colonel Keith.

"I verily believe," said Alick, turning round upon him, "that the worse it is for her, the
more you enjoy it!"

"Quite true," said Ermine in her mischievous way; "it is a true case of man's detestation of
clever women! Look here, Alick, we will not have him here at the great ordeal of the woodcuts.
You and I are much more candid and unprejudiced people, and shall manage her much better."

"I have no desire to be present," returned the Colonel; "I have no satisfaction in seeing my
friend Alick baffled. I shall see how they both appear at luncheon afterwards."

"How will that be?" asked Fanny, anxiously.

"The lady will be sententious and glorious, and will recommend the F. U. E. E. more than ever,
and Alick will cover the downfall of his crest by double-edged assents to all her propositions."

"You will not have that pleasure," said Alick. "I only go to dinner there."

"At any rate," said the Colonel, "supposing your test takes effect by some extraordinary chance,
don't take any further steps without letting me know."

The inference was drawn that he expected great results, but he continued to laugh at Alick's
expectations of producing any effect on the Clever Woman, and the debate of the woodcuts was
adjourned to the Monday.

In good time, Rachel made her appearance in Miss Williams's little sitting-room. "I am ready
to submit to any test that Captain Keith may require to confute himself," she said to Ermine;
"and I do so the more readily that with all his mocking language, there is a genuine candour
and honesty beneath that would be quite worth convincing. I believe that if once persuaded
of the injustice of his suspicions he would in the reaction become a fervent supporter of Mr.
Mauleverer and of the institution; and though I should prefer carrying on our work entirely
through women, yet this interest would be so good a thing for him, that I should by no means
reject his assistance."

Rachel had, however, long to wait. As she said, Captain Keith was one of those inborn loiterers
who, made punctual by military duty, revenge themselves by double tardiness in the common affairs
of life. Impatience had nearly made her revoke her good opinion of him, and augur that, knowing
himself vanquished, he had left the field to her, when at last a sound of wheels was heard,
a dog-cart stopped at the door, and Captain Keith entered with an enormous blue and gold volume
under his arm.

"I am sorry to be so late," he said, "but I have only now succeeded in procuring my ally."

"An ally?"

"Yes, in this book. I had to make interest at the Avoncester Library, before I could take it
away with me." As he spoke he placed the book desk-fashion on a chair, and turned it so that
Ermine might see it; and she perceived that it was a bound-up volume of the "Illustrated London
News." Two marks were in it, and he silently parted the leaves at the first.

It revealed the lace-making beauty in all her rural charms.

"I see," said Rachel; "it is the same figure, but not the same shaped picture."

Without another word, Alick Keith opened the pages at the lace-school; and here again the figures
were identical, though the margin had been differently finished off.

"I perceive a great resemblance," again said Rachel, "but none that is not fully explained
by Mr. Mauleverer's accurate resemblance and desire to satirize foolish sentiment."

Alick Keith took up the woodcut. "I should say," he observed, holding it up to the light, "that
it was unusual to mount a proof engraving so elaborately on a card."

"Oh, I see what your distrust is driving at; you suspect the designs of being pasted on."

"There is such a test as water," suggested Alick.

"I should be ashamed to return the proof to its master, bearing traces of unjust suspicion."

"If the suspicion you impute to me be unjust, the water will produce no effect at all."

"And you engage to retract all your distrust and contempt, if you are convinced that this engraving
is genuine?"

"I do," he answered steadily.

With irritated magnanimity Rachel dipped her finger into the vase of flowers on the table,
and let a heavy drop of water fall upon the cottage scene. The centre remained unaltered, and
she looked round in exultation, saying, "There, now I suppose I may wipe it off."

Neither spoke, and she applied her pocket handkerchief. What came peeling away under her pressure?
It was the soft paper, and as she was passing the edge of the figure of the girl, she found
a large smear following her finger. The peculiar brown of Indian ink was seen upon her handkerchief,
and when she took it up a narrow hem of white had become apparent between the girl's head and
its surroundings. Neither spectator spoke, they scarcely looked at her, when she took another
drop from the vase, and using it more boldly found the pasted figure curling up and rending
under her hand, lines of newspaper type becoming apparent, and the dark cloud spreading around.

"What does it mean?" was her first exclamation; then suddenly turning on Ermine, "Well, do
you triumph?"

"I am very, very sorry," said Ermine.

"I do not know that it is come to that yet," said Rachel, trying to collect herself. "I may
have been pressing too hard for results." Then looking at the mangled picture again as they
wisely left her to herself, "But it is a deception! A deception! Oh! he need not have done
it! Or," with a lightened look and tone of relief, "suppose he did it to see whether I should
find it out?"

"He is hardly on terms with you for that," said Ermine; while Alick could not refrain from
saying, "Then he would be a more insolent scoundrel than he has shown himself yet."

"I know he is not quite a gentleman," said Rachel, "and nothing else gives the instinct of
the becoming. You have conquered, Captain Keith, if it be any pleasure to you to have given
my trust and hope a cruel shock."

"With little satisfaction to myself," he began to say; but she continued, "A shock, a shock
I say, no more; I do not know what conclusion I ought to draw. I do not expect you to believe
in this person till he has cleared up the deceit. If it be only a joke in bad taste, he deserves
the distrust that is the penalty for it. If you have been opening my eyes to a deception, perhaps
I shall thank you for it some day. I must think it over."

She rose, gathered her papers together, and took her leave gravely, while Alick, much to Ermine's
satisfaction, showed no elation in his victory. All he said was, "There is a great deal of
dignity in the strict justice of a mind slow to condemn, or to withdraw the trust once given."

"There is," said Ermine, much pleased with his whole part in the affair; "there has been full
and real candour, not flying into the other extreme. I am afraid she has a great deal to suffer."

"It was very wrong to have stood so still when the rascal began his machinations," repeated
Alick, "Bessie absolutely helping it on! But for her, the fellow would have had no chance even
of acquaintance with her."

"Your sister hardly deserves blame for that."

"Not exactly blame; but the responsibility remains," he replied gravely, and indeed he was
altogether much graver than his wont, entirely free from irony, and evidently too sorry for
Rachel, and feeling himself, through his sister, too guilty of her entanglement, to have any
of that amused satisfaction that even Colin evidently felt in her discomfiture. In fact Ermine
did not fully enter into Colin's present tactics; she saw that he was more than usually excited
and interested about the F. U. E. E., but he had not explained his views to her, and she could
only attribute his desire, to defer the investigation, to a wish that Mr. Mitchell should have
time to return from London, whither he had gone to conclude his arrangements with Mr. Touchett,
leaving the duty in commission between three delicate winter visitors.

Rachel walked home in a kind of dreamy bewilderment. The first stone in her castle had been
loosened, and her heart was beginning to fail her, though the tenacity of her will produced
a certain incapacity of believing that she had been absolutely deceived. Her whole fabric was
so compact, and had been so much solidified by her own intensity of purpose, that any hollowness
of foundation was utterly beyond present credence. She was ready to be affronted with Mauleverer
for perilling all for a bad joke, but wildly impossible as this explanation would have seemed
to others, she preferred taking refuge in it to accepting the full brunt of the blow upon her
cherished hopes.

She had just re-entered the house on her return, when Grace met her, saying, "Oh, Rachel dear,
Mrs. Rossitur is here."

"I think old servants have a peculiar propensity for turning up when the house is in a state
of turmoil," returned Rachel.

"I have been walking round the garden with her, and doing my best to suffice for her entertainment,"
said Grace, good-naturedly, "but she really wants to see you on business. She has a bill for
the F. U. E. E. which she wants you to pay."

"A bill for the F. U. E. E.?"

"Yes; she makes many apologies for troubling you, but Tom is to be apprenticed to a grocer,
and they want this fifteen pounds to make up the fee."

"But I tell you, Grace, there can't have been fifteen pounds' worth of things had in this month,
and they were paid on the 1st."

"She says they have never been paid at all since the 1st of December."

"I assure you, Grace, it is in the books. I made a point of having all the accounts brought
to me on the 1st of every month, and giving out the money. I gave out £3. 10s. for the Rossiturs
last Friday, the 1st of February, when Mr. Mauleverer was over here. He said coals were dearer,
and they had to keep more fires."

"There must be some mistake," said Grace. "I'll show you the books. Mr. Mauleverer keeps one
himself, and leaves one with me. Oh, botheration, there's the Grey carriage! Well, you go and
receive them, and I'll try to pacify Mrs. Rossitur, and then come down."

Neatly kept were these account books of the F. U. E. E,, and sure enough for every month were
entered the sums for coals, wood, and potatoes, tallying exactly with Mrs. Rossitur's account,
and each month Mr. Mauleverer's signature attested the receipt of the sum paid over to him
by Rachel for household expenses. Rachel carried them down to Mrs. Rossitur, but this evidence
utterly failed to convince that worthy personage that she had ever received a farthing after
the 1st of December. She was profuse in her apologies for troubling Miss Rachel, and had only
been led to do so by the exigencies of her son's apprentice fee, and she reposed full confidence
in Rachel's eager assurance that she should not be a loser, and that in another day the matter
should be investigated.

"And, Miss Rachel," added the old servant, "you'll excuse me, but they do say very odd things
of the matron at that place, and I doubt you are deceived in her. Our lads went to the the-a-ter
the other night, and I checked them well for it; but mother, says they, we had more call to
be there than the governess up to Miss Rachel's schule in Nichol Street, dressed out in pink
feathers."

"Well, Mrs. Rossitur, I will make every inquiry, and I do not think you will find anything
wrong. There must be some one about very like Mrs. Rawlins. I have heard of those pink feathers
before, but I know who the matron is, and all about her! Good-bye. I'll see you again before
you go, I suppose it won't be till the seven o'clock train."

Mrs. Rossitur remained expressing her opinion to the butler that dear Miss Rachel was too innocent,
and then proceeded to lose all past cares in a happy return to "melting day," in the regions
of her past glories as cook and housekeeper.

Rachel repaired to her room to cool her glowing cheeks, and repeat to herself, "A mistake,
an error. It must be a blunder! That boy that went to the theatre may have cheated them! Mrs.
Rawlins may have deceived Mr. Mauleverer. Anything must be true rather than--No, no! such a
tissue of deception is impossible in a man of such sentiments! Persecuted as he has been, shall
appearances make me--me, his only friend--turn against him? Oh, me! here come the whole posse
purring upstairs to take off their things! I shall be invaded in a moment."

And in came Grace and the two younger ladies, and Rachel was no more her own from that moment.

CHAPTER XVIII. THE FORLORN HOPE.

 "She whipped two female 'prentices to death,
  And hid them in the coal-hole.  For her mind
  Shaped strictest plans of discipline, sage schemes,
  Such as Lycurgus taught."--Canning and Frere.

The favourite dentist of the neighbourhood dwelt in a grand mansion at St. Norbert's, and thither
were conducted Conrade and Francis, as victims to the symmetry of their mouths. Their mother
accompanied them to supply the element of tenderness, Alison that of firmness; and, in fact,
Lady Temple was in a state of much greater trepidation than either of her sons, who had been
promised five shillings each as the reward of fortitude, and did nothing but discuss what they
should buy with it.

They escaped with a reprieve to Conrade, and the loss of one tooth of Francis's, and when the
rewards had been laid out, and presents chosen for all the stay-at-home children, including
Rose, Lady Temple became able to think about other matters. The whole party were in a little
den at the pastrycook's; the boys consuming mutton pies, and the ladies ox-tail soup, while
waiting to be taken up by the waggonette which had of late been added to the Myrtlewood establishment,
when the little lady thus spoke--

"If you don't object, Miss Williams, we will go to Rachel's asylum on our way home."

Miss Williams asked if she had made the appointment.

"No," said Lady Temple, "but you see I can't be satisfied about those woodcuts; and that poor
woman, Mrs. Kelland, came to me yesterday about my lace shawl, and she is sadly distressed
about the little girl. She was not allowed to see her, you know, and she heard such odd things
about the place that I told her that I did not wonder she was in trouble, and that I would
try to bring the child home, or at any rate see and talk to her."

"I hope we may be able to see her, but you know Colonel Keith could not get in without making
an appointment."

"I pay for her," said Lady Temple, "and I cannot bear its going on in this way without some
one seeing about it. The Colonel was quite sure those woodcuts were mere fabrications to deceive
Rachel; and there must be something very wrong about those people."

"Did she know that you were going?"

"No; I did not see her before we went. I do not think she will mind it much; and I promised."
Lady Temple faltered a little, but gathered courage the next moment. "And indeed, after what
Mrs. Kelland said, I could not sleep while I thought I had been the means of putting any poor
child into such hands."

"Yes," said Alison, "it is very shocking to leave them there without inquiry, and it is an
excellent thing to make the attempt."

And so the order was given to drive to the asylum, Alison marvelling at the courage which prompted
this most unexpected assault upon the fortress that had repulsed two such warriors as Colonel
Keith and Mrs. Kelland. But timid and tender as she might be, it was not for nothing that Fanny
Temple had been a vice-queen, so much accustomed to be welcomed wherever she penetrated, that
the notion of a rebuff never suggested itself.

Coombe rang, and his lady made him let herself and Miss Williams out, so that she was on the
step when the rough charwoman opened the door, and made the usual reply that Mr. Mauleverer
was not within. Lady Temple answered that it was Mrs. Rawlins, the matron, that she wished
to see, and with more audacity than Alison thought her capable of, inserted herself within
the doorway, so as to prevent herself from being shut out as the girl took her message. The
next moment the girl came back saying, "This way, ma'am," opened the door of a small dreary,
dusty, cold parlour, where she shut them in, and disappeared before a word could be said.

There they remained so long, that in spite of such encouragement as could be derived from peeping
over the blinds at Coombe standing sentinel over his two young masters at the carriage window,
Lady Temple began to feel some dismay, though no repentance, and with anxious iteration conjured
Miss Williams to guess what could be the cause of delay.

"Making ready for our reception," was Alison's answer in various forms; and Lady Temple repeated
by turns, "I do not like it," and "it is very unsatisfactory. No, I don't like it at all,"
the at all always growing more emphatic.

The climax was, "Things must be very sad, or they would never take so much preparation. I'll
tell you, Miss Williams," she added in a low confidential tone; "there are two of us, and the
woman cannot be in two places at once. Now, if you go up and see the rooms and all, which I
saw long ago, I could stay and talk to the poor children."

Alison was the more surprised at the simple statecraft of the General's widow, but it was prompted
by the pitiful heart yearning over the mysterious wrongs of the poor little ones.

At last Mrs. Rawlins sailed in, crape, streamers, and all, with the lowest of curtsies and
fullest of apologies for having detained her Ladyship, but she had been sending out in pursuit
of Mr. Mauleverer, he would be so disappointed! Lady Temple begged to see the children, and
especially Lovedy, whom she said she should like to take home for a holiday.

"Why, my lady, you see Mr. Mauleverer is very particular. I hardly know that I could answer
it to him to have one of his little darlings out of his sight. It unsettles a child so to be
going home, and Lovedy has a bad cold, my lady, and I am afraid it will run through the house.
My little Alice is beginning of it."

However, Lady Temple kept to her desire of seeing Lovedy, and of letting her companion see
the rest of the establishment, and they were at last ushered into the room already known to
the visitors of the F. U. E. E., where the two children sat as usual in white pinafores, but
it struck the ladies that all looked ill, and Lovedy was wrapped in a shawl, and sat cowering
in a dull, stupified way, unlike the bright responsive manner for which she had been noted
even in her lace-school days. Mary Morris gazed for a moment at Alison with a wistful appealing
glance, then, with a start as of fright, put on a sullen stolid look, and kept her eyes on
her book. The little Alice, looking very heavy and feverish, leant against her, and Mrs. Rawlins
went on talking of the colds, the gruel she had made, and her care for her pupils' ailments,
and Lady Temple listened so graciously that Alison feared she was succumbing to the palaver;
and by way of reminder, asked to see the dormitory.

"Oh, yes, ma'am, certainly, though we are rather in confusion," and she tried to make both
ladies precede her, but Lady Temple, for once assuming the uncomprehending nonchalance of a
fine lady, seated herself languidly and motioned Alison on. The matron was evidently perplexed,
she looked daggers at the children, or Ailie fancied so, but she was forced to follow the governess.
Lady Temple breathed more freely, and rose. "My poor child," she said to Lovedy, "you seem
very poorly. Have you any message to your aunt?"

"Please, please!" began Lovedy, with a hoarse sob.

"Lovedy, don't, don't be a bad girl, or you know--" interposed the little one, in a warning
whisper.

"She is not naughty," said Lady Temple gently, "only not well."

"Please, my lady, look," eagerly, though with a fugitive action of terror, Lovedy cried, unpinning
the thin coarse shawl on her neck, and revealing the terrible stripes and weals of recent beating,
such as nearly sickened Lady Temple.

"Oh, Lovedy," entreated Alice, "she'll take the big stick."

"She could not do her work," interposed Mary with furtive eagerness, "she is so poorly, and
Missus said she would have the twenty sprigs if she sat up all night."

"Sprigs!"

"Yes, ma'am, we makes lace more than ever we did to home, day and night; and if we don't she
takes the stick."

"Oh, Mary," implored the child, "she said if you said one word."

"Mary," said Lady Temple, trembling all over, "where are your bonnets?"

"We haven't none, ma'am," returned Mary, "she pawned them. But, oh, ma'am, please take us away.
We are used dreadful bad, and no one knows it."

Lady Temple took Lovedy in one hand, and Mary in the other; then looked at the other little
girl, who stood as if petrified. She handed the pair to the astonished Coombe, bidding him
put them into the carriage, and let Master Temple go outside, and then faced about to defend
the rear, her rustling black silk and velvet filling up the passage, just as Alison and the
matron were coming down stairs.

"Mrs. Rawlins," she said, in her gentle dignity, "I think Lovedy is so poorly that she ought
to go home to her aunt to be nursed, and I have taken little Mary that she may not be left
behind alone. Please to tell Mr. Mauleverer that I take it all upon myself. The other little
girl is not at all to blame, and I hope you will take care of her, for she looks very ill."

So much for being a Governor's widow! A woman of thrice Fanny's energy and capacity would not
have effected her purpose so simply, and made the virago in the matron so entirely quail. She
swept forth with such a consciousness of power and ease that few could have had assurance enough
to gainsay her, but no sooner was she in the carriage than she seized Mary's hand, exclaiming,
"My poor, poor little dear! Francis, dear boy, the wicked people have been beating her! Oh,
Miss Williams, look at her poor neck!"

Alison lifting Lovedy on her knee, glanced under the shawl, and saw indeed a sad spectacle,
and she felt such a sharpness of bone as proved that there was far from being the proper amount
of clothing or of flesh to protect them. Lady Temple looked at Mary's attenuated hand, and
fairly sobbed, "Oh, you have been cruelly treated!"

"Please don't let her get us," cried the frightened Mary.

"Never, never, my dear. We are taking you home to your mother."

Mary Morris was the spokeswoman, and volunteered the exhibition of bruises rather older, but
no less severe than those of her companion. All had been inflicted by the woman; Mr. Mauleverer
had seldom or never been seen by the children, except Alice, who used often to be called into
Mrs. Rawlins's parlour when he was there, to be played with and petted. A charwoman was occasionally
called in, but otherwise the entire work of the house was exacted from the two girls, and they
had been besides kept perpetually to their lace pillows, and severely beaten if they failed
in the required amount of work; the ample wardrobe with which their patronesses had provided
them had been gradually taken from them, and their fare had latterly become exceedingly coarse,
and very scanty. It was a sad story, and this last clause evoked from Francis's pocket a large
currant bun, which Mary devoured with a famished appetite, but Lovedy held her portion untasted
in her hand, and presently gave it to Mary, saying that her throat was so bad that she could
not make use of anything. She had already been wrapped in Lady Temple's cloak, and Francis
was desired to watch for a chemist's shop that something might be done for her relief, but
the region of shops was already left behind, and even the villas were becoming scantier, so
that nothing was to be done but to drive on, obtaining from time to time further doleful narratives
from Mary, and perceiving more and more how ill and suffering was the other poor child.

Moreover, Lady Temple's mind became extremely uneasy as to the manner in which Rachel might
accept her exploit. All her valour departed as she figured to herself that young lady discrediting
the alarm, and resenting her interference. She did not repent, she knew she could not have
helped it, and she had rather have been tortured by Rachel than have left the victims another
hour to the F. U. E. E., but she was full of nervous anxiety, little as she yet guessed at
the full price of her courage; and she uttered more than once the fervent wish that the Colonel
had been there, for he would have known what to do. And Alison each time replied, "I wish it
with all my heart!"

Wrought up at last to the pitch of nervousness that must rush on the crisis at once, and take
the bull by the horns, this valiant piece of cowardice declared that she could not even return
the girls to their homes till Rachel knew all about it, and gave the word to drive to the Homestead,
further cheered by the recollection that Colonel Keith would probably be there, having been
asked to luncheon, as he could not dine out, to meet Mr. Grey. Moreover, Mr. Grey was a magistrate
and would know what was to be done.

Thus the whole party at the Homestead were assembled near the door, when, discerning them too
late to avoid them, Lady Temple's equipage drew up in the peculiarly ungraceful fashion of
waggonettes, when they prepare to shoot their passengers out behind.

Conrade, the only person who had the advantage of a previous view, stood up on the box, and
before making his descent, shouted out, "Oh, Aunt Rachel, your F. U. thing is as bad as the
Sepoys. But we have saved the two little girls that they were whipping to death, and have got
them in the carriage."

While this announcement was being delivered, Alison Williams, the nearest to the door, had
emerged. She lifted out the little muffled figure of Lovedy, set her on her feet, and then
looking neither to the right nor left, as if she saw and thought of no one else, made but one
bound towards Colonel Keith, clasped both hands round his arm, turned him away from the rest,
and with her black brows drawn close together, gasped under her breath, "O, Colin, Colin, it
is Maria Hatherton."

"What! the matron?"

"Yes, the woman that has used these poor children like a savage. O, Colin, it is frightful."

"You should sit down, you are almost ready to faint."

"Nothing! nothing! But the poor girls are in such a state. And that Maria whom we taught, and--"
Alison stopped.

"Did she know you?"

"I can't tell. Perhaps; but I did not know her till the last moment."

"I have long believed that the man that Rose recognised was Mauleverer, but I thought the uncertainty
would be bad for Ermine. What is all this?"

"You will hear. There! Listen, I can't tell you; Lady Temple did it all," said Alison, trying
to draw away her arm from him, and to assume the staid governess. But he felt her trembling,
and did not release her from his support as they fanned back to the astonished group, to which,
while these few words were passing, Francis, the little bareheaded white-aproned Mary Morris,
and lastly Lady Temple, had by this time been added; and Fanny, with quick but courteous acknowledgment
of all, was singling out her cousin.

"Oh, Rachel, dear, I did not mean it to have been so sudden or before them all, but indeed
I could not help it," she said in her gentle, imploring voice, "if you only saw that poor dear
child's neck."

Rachel had little choice what she should say or do. What Fanny was saying tenderly and privately,
the two boys were communicating open-mouthed, and Mrs. Curtis came at once with her nervous,
"What is it, my dear; is it something very sad? Those poor children look very cold, and half
starved."

"Indeed," said Fanny, "they have been starved, and beaten, and cruelly used. I am very sorry,
Rachel, but indeed that was a dreadful woman, and I thought Colonel Keith and Mr. Grey would
tell us what ought to be done."

"Mr. Grey!" and Mrs. Curtis turned round eagerly, with the comfort of having some one to support
her, "will you tell us what is to be done? Here has poor dear Rachel been taken in by this
wicked scheme, and these poor--"

"Mother, mother," muttered Rachel, lashed up to desperation; "please not out here, before the
servants and every one."

This appeal and Grace's opening of the door had the effect of directing every one into the
hall, Mr. Grey asking Mrs. Curtis by the way, "Eh? Then this is Rachel's new female asylum, is it?"

"Yes, I always feared there was something odd about it. I never liked that man, and now--Fanny,
my love, what is the matter?"

In a few simple words Fanny answered that she had contrived to be left alone with the children,
and had then found signs of such shocking ill-treatment of them, that she had thought it right
to bring them away at once.

"And you will commit those wretches. You will send them to prison at once, Mr. Grey. They have
been deceiving my poor Rachel ever so long, and getting sums upon sums of money out of her,"
said Mrs. Curtis, becoming quite blood-thirsty.

"If there is sufficient occasion I will summon the persons concerned to the Bench on Wednesday,"
said Mr. Grey, a practical, active squire.

"Not till Wednesday!" said Mrs. Curtis, as if she thought the course of justice very tardy.
But the remembrance of Mr. Curtis's magisterial days came to her aid, and she continued, "but
you can take all the examinations here at once, you know; and Grace can find you a summons
paper, if you will just go into the study."

"It might save the having the children over to-morrow, certainly," said Mr. Grey, and he was
inducted almost passively into the leathern chair before the library table, where Mr. Curtis
had been wont to administer justice, and Grace was diving deep into a bureau for the printed
forms long treasured there, her mother directing her, though Mr. Grey vainly protested that
any foolscap would do as well. It was a curious scene. Mrs. Grey with her daughters had the
discretion to remove themselves, but every one else was in a state of excitement, and pressed
into the room, the two boys disputing under their breath whether the civilians called it a
court martial, and, with some confusion between mutineers and Englishwomen, hoping the woman
would be blown from the mouth of a cannon, for hadn't she gone and worn a cap like mamma's?
They would have referred the question to Miss Williams, but she had been deposited by the Colonel
on one of the chairs in the furthest corner of the room, and he stood sheltering her agitation
and watching the proceedings. Lady Temple still held a hand of each of her rescued victims,
as if she feared they were still in danger, and all the time Rachel stood and looked like a
statue, unable to collect her convictions in the hubbub, and the trust, that would have enabled
her to defy all this, swept away from her by the morning's transactions. Yet still there was
a hope that appearances might be delusive, and an habitual low estimate of Mr. Grey's powers
that made her set on looking with her own eyes, not with his.

His first question was about the children's names and their friends, and this led to the despatching
of a message to the mother and aunt. He then inquired about the terms on which they had been
placed at St. Norbert's, and Rachel, who was obliged to reply, felt under his clear, stringent
questions, keeping close to the point, a good deal more respect for his powers than she had
hitherto entertained. That dry way of his was rather overwhelming. When it came to the children
themselves, Rachel watched, not without a hope that the clear masculine intellect would detect
Fanny in a more frightened woman's fancy, and bring the F. U. E. E. off with flying colours.

Little Mary Morris stood forth valiant and excited. She was eleven years old, and intelligent
enough to make it evident that she knew what she was about. The replies were full. The blows
were described, with terrible detail of the occasions and implements. Still Rachel remembered
the accusation of Mary's truth. She tried to doubt.

"I saw her with a bruised eye," said the Colonel's unexpected voice in a pause. "How was that?"

"Please, sir, Mrs. Rawlins hit me with her fist because I had only done seven sprigs. She knocked
me down, and I did not come to for ever so long."

And not only this, and the like sad narratives, but each child bore the marks in corroboration
of the words, which were more reluctant and more hoarse from Lovedy, but even more effective.
Rachel doubted no more after the piteous sight of those scarred shoulders, and the pinched
feeble face; but one thing was plain, namely, that Mr. Mauleverer had no share in the cruelties.
Even such severities as had been perpetrated while he was in the house, had, Mary thought,
been protested against by him, but she had seldom seen him, he paid all his visits in the little
parlour, and took no notice of the children except to prepare the tableau for public inspection.
Mr. Grey, looking at his notes, said that there was full evidence to justify issuing a summons
against the woman for assaulting the children, and proceeded to ask her name. Then while there
was a question whether her Christian name was known, the Colonel again said, "I believe her
name to be Maria Hatherton. Miss Williams has recognised her as a servant who once lived in
her family, and who came from her father's parish at Beauchamp."

Alison on inquiry corroborated the statement, and the charge was made against Maria Rawlins,
alias Hatherton. The depositions were read over to the children, and signed by them; with very
trembling fingers by poor little Lovedy, and Mr. Grey said he would send a policeman with the
summons early next day.

"But, Mr. Grey," burst out Mrs. Curtis, "you don't mean that you are not going to do anything
to that man! Why he has been worse than the woman! It was he that entrapped the poor children,
and my poor Rachel here, with his stories of magazines and illustrations, and I don't know
what all!"

"Very true, Mrs. Curtis," said the magistrate, "but where's the charge against him?"

It may be conceived how pleasant it was to the clever woman of the family to hear her mother
declaiming on the arts by which she had been duped by this adventurer, appealing continually
to Grace and Fanny, and sometimes to herself, and all before Mr. Grey, on whose old-world prejudices
she had bestowed much more antagonism than he had thought it worth while to bestow on her new
lights. Yet, at the moment, this operation of being written down an ass, was less acutely painful
to her than the perception that was simultaneously growing on her of the miserable condition
of poor little Lovedy, whose burning hand she held, and whose gasping breath she heard, as
the child rested feebly in the chair in which she had been placed. Rachel had nothing vindictive
or selfish in her mood, and her longing was, above all, to get away, and minister to the poor
child's present sufferings; but she found herself hemmed in, and pinned down by the investigation
pushed on by her mother, involving answers and explanations that she alone could make.

Mr. Grey rubbed his forehead, and looked freshly annoyed at each revelation of the state of
things. It had not been Mauleverer, but Rachel, who had asked subscriptions for the education
of the children, he had but acted as her servant, the counterfeit of the woodcuts, which Lady
Temple suggested, could not be construed into an offence; and it looked very much as if, thanks
to his cleverness, and Rachel's incaution, there was really no case to be made out against
him, as if the fox had carried off the bait without even leaving his brush behind him. Sooth
to say, the failure was a relief to Rachel, she had thrown so much of her will and entire self
into the upholding him, that she could not yet detach herself or sympathize with those gentle
souls, the mother and Fanny, in keenly hunting him down. Might he not have been as much deceived
in Mrs. Rawlins as herself? At any rate she hoped for time to face the subject, and kneeling
on the ground so as to support little Lovedy's sinking head on her shoulder, made the briefest
replies in her power when referred to. At last, Grace recollected the morning's affair of Mrs.
Rossitur's bills. Mr. Grey looked as if he saw daylight, Grace volunteered to fetch both the
account-book and Mrs. Rossitur, and Rachel found the statement being extracted from her of
the monthly production of the bills, with the entries in the book, and of her having given
the money for their payment. Mr. Grey began to write, and she perceived that he was taking
down her deposition. She beckoned Mary to support her poor little companion, and rising to
her feet, said, to the horror and consternation of her mother, "Mr. Grey, pray let me speak
to you!"

He rose at once, and followed her to the hall, where he looked prepared to be kind but firm.

"Must this be done to-day?" she said.

"Why not?" he answered.

"I want time to think about it. The woman has acted like a fiend, and I have not a word to
say for her; but I cannot feel that it is fair, after such long and entire trust of this man,
to turn on him suddenly without notice."

"Do you mean that you will not prosecute?" said Mr. Grey, with a dozen notes of interjection
in his voice.

"I have not said so. I want time to make up my mind, and to hear what he has to say for himself."

"You will hear that at the Bench on Wednesday."

"It will not be the same thing."

"I should hope not!"

"You see," said Rachel, perplexed and grievously wanting time to rally her forces, "I cannot
but feel that I have trusted too easily, and perhaps been to blame myself for my implicit confidence,
and after that it revolts me to throw the whole blame on another."

"If you have been a simpleton, does that make him an honest man?" said Mr. Grey, impatiently.

"No," said Rachel, "but--"

"What?"

"My credulity may have caused his dishonesty," she said, bringing, at last, the words to serve
the idea.

"Look you here, Rachel," said Mr. Grey, constraining himself to argue patiently with his old
friend's daughter; "it does not simply lie between you and him--a silly girl who has let herself
be taken in by a sharper. That would be no more than giving a sixpence to a fellow that tells
me he lost his arm at Sebastopol when he has got it sewn up in a bag. But you have been getting
subscriptions from all the world, making yourself answerable to them for having these children
educated, and then, for want of proper superintendence, or the merest rational precaution,
leaving them to this barbarous usage. I don't want to be hard upon you, but you are accountable
for all this; you have made yourself so, and unless you wish to be regarded as a sharer in
the iniquity, the least you can do by way of compensation, is not to make yourself an obstruction
to the course of justice."

"I don't much care how I am regarded," said Rachel, with subdued tone and sunken head; "I only
want to do right, and not act spitefully and vindictively before he has had warning to defend
himself."

"Or to set off to delude as many equal foo--mistaken people as he can find elsewhere! Eh, Rachel?
Don't you see, it this friend of yours be innocent, a summons will not hurt him, it will only
give him the opportunity of clearing himself."

"Yes, I see," owned Rachel, and overpowered, though far from satisfied, she allowed herself
to be brought back, and did what was required of her, to the intense relief of her mother.
During her three minute conference no one in the study had ventured on speaking or stirring,
and Mrs. Curtis would not thank her biographer for recording the wild alarms that careered
through her brain, as to the object of her daughter's tete-a-tete with the magistrate.

It was over at last, and the hall of justice broke up. Mary Morris was at once in her mother's
arms, and in a few minutes more making up for all past privations by a substantial meal in
the kitchen. But Mrs. Kelland had gone to Avoncester to purchase thread, and only her daughter
Susan had come up, the girl who was supposed to be a sort of spider, with no capacities beyond
her web. Nor did Rachel think Lovedy capable of walking down to Mackarel Lane, nor well enough
for the comfortless chairs and the third part of a bed. No, Mr. Grey's words that Rachel was
accountable for the children's sufferings had gone to her heart. Pity was there and indignation,
but these had brought such an anguish of self-accusation as she could only appease by lavishing
personal care upon the chief sufferer. She carried the child to her own sitting-room and made
a couch for her before the fire, sending Susan away with the assurance that Lovedy should stay
at the Homestead, and be nursed and fed till she was well and strong again. Fanny, who had
accompanied her, thought the child very ill, and was urgent that the doctor should be sent
for; but between Rachel and the faculty of Avonmouth there was a deadly feud, and the proposal
was scouted. Hunger and a bad cold were easily treated, and maybe there was a spark of consolation
in having a patient all to herself and her homoeopathic book.

So Fanny and her two boys walked down the hill together in the dark. Colonel Keith and Alison
Williams had already taken the same road, anxiously discussing the future. Alison asked why
Colin had not given Mauleverer's alias. "I had no proof," he said. "You were sure of the woman,
but so far it is only guess work with him; though each time Rose spoke of seeing Maddox coincided
with one of Mauleverer's visits. Besides, Alison, on the back of that etching in Rose's book
is written, Mrs. Williams, from her humble and obliged servant, R. Maddox.'"

"And you said nothing about it?"

"No, I wished to make myself secure, and to see my way before speaking out."

"What shall you do? Can you trust to Rose's identifying him?"

"I shall ride in to-morrow to see what is going on, and judge if it will be well to let her
see this man, if he have not gone off, as I should fear was only too likely. Poor little Lady
Temple, her exploit has precipitated matters."

"And you will let every one, Dr. Long and all, know what a wretch they have believed. And then--"

"Stay, Alison, I am afraid they will not take Maddox's subsequent guilt as a proof of Edward's
innocence."

"It is a proof that his stories were not worth credit."

"To you and me it is, who do not need such proof. It is possible that among his papers something
may be found that may implicate him and clear Edward, but we can only hold off and watch. And
I greatly fear both man and woman will have slipped through our fingers, especially if she
knew you."

"Poor Maria, who could have thought of such frightful barbarity?" sighed Alison. "I knew she
was a passionate girl, but this is worse than one can bear to believe."

She ceased, for she had been inexpressibly shocked, and her heart still yearned towards every
Beauchamp school child.

"I suppose we must tell Ermine," she added; "indeed, I know I could not help it."

"Nor I," he said, smiling, "though there is only too much fear that nothing will come of it
but disappointment. At least, she will tell us how to meet that."

CHAPTER XIX. THE BREWST SHE BREWED.

 "Unwisely, not ignobly, have I given."
                            Timon of Athens.

Under the circumstances of the Curtis family, no greater penance could have been devised than
the solemn dinner party which had to take place only an hour after the investigation was closed.
Grace in especial was nearly distracted between her desire to calm her mother and to comfort
her sister, and the necessity of attending to the Grey family, who repaid themselves for their
absence from the scene of action by a torrent of condolences and questions, whence poor Grace
gathered to her horror and consternation that the neighbourhood already believed that a tenderer
sentiment than philanthropy had begun to mingle in Rachel's relations with the secretary of
the F. U. E. E. Feeling it incumbent on the whole family to be as lively and indifferent as
possible, Grace, having shut her friends into their rooms to perform their toilette, hurried
to her sister, to find her so entirely engrossed with her patient as absolutely to have forgotten
the dinner party. No wonder! She had had to hunt up a housemaid to make up a bed for Lovedy
in a little room within her own, and the undressing and bathing of the poor child had revealed
injuries even in a more painful state than those which had been shown to Mr. Grey, shocking
emaciation, and most scanty garments. The child was almost torpid, and spoke very little. She
was most unwilling to attempt to swallow; however, Rachel thought that some of her globules
had gone down, and put much faith in them, and in warmth and sleep; but incessantly occupied,
and absolutely sickened by the sight of the child's hurts, she looked up with loathing at Grace's
entreaty that she would, dress for the dinner.

"Impossible," she said.

"You must, Rachel dear; indeed, you must."

"As if I could leave her."

"Nay, Rachel, but if you would only send--"

"Nonsense, Grace; if I can stay with her I can restore her far better than could an allopathist,
who would not leave nature to herself. O Grace, why can't you leave me in peace? Is it not
bad enough without this?"

"Dear Rachel, I am very sorry; but if you did not come down to dinner, think of the talk it
would make."

"Let them talk."

"Ah, Rachel, but the mother! Think how dreadful the day's work has been to her; and how can
she ever get through the evening if she is in a fright at your not coming down?"

"Dinner parties are one of the most barbarous institutions of past stupidity," said Rachel,
and Grace was reassured. She hovered over Rachel while Rachel hovered over the sick child,
and between her own exertions and those of two maids, had put her sister into an evening dress
by the time the first carriage arrived. She then rushed to her own room, made her own toilette,
and returned to find Rachel in conference with Mrs. Kelland, who had come home at last, and
was to sit with her niece during the dinner. Perhaps it was as well for all parties that this
first interview was cut very short, but Rachel's burning cheeks did not promise much for the
impression of ease and indifference she was to make, as Grace's whispered reminders of "the
mother's" distress dragged her down stairs among the all too curious glances of the assembled
party.

All had been bustle. Not one moment for recollection had yet been Rachel's. Mr. Grey's words,
"Accountable for all," throbbed in her ears and echoed in her brain--the purple bruises, the
red stripes, verging upon sores, were before her eyes, and the lights, the flowers, the people
and their greetings, were like a dizzy mist. The space before dinner was happily but brief,
and then, as last lady, she came in as a supernumerary on the other arm of Grace's cavalier,
and taking the only vacant chair, found herself between a squire and Captain Keith, who had
duly been bestowed on Emily Grey.

Here there was a moment's interval of quiet, for the squire was slightly deaf, and, moreover,
regarded her as a little pert girl, not to be encouraged, while Captain Keith was resigned
to the implied homage of the adorer of his cross; so that, though the buzz of talk and the
clatter of knives and forks roared louder than it had ever seemed to do since she had been
a child, listening from the outside, the immediate sense of hurry and confusion, and the impossibility
of seeing or hearing anything plainly, began to diminish. She could not think, but she began
to wonder whether any one knew what had happened; and, above all, she perfectly dreaded the
quiet sting of her neighbour's word and eye, in this consummation of his victory. If he glanced
at her, she knew she could not bear it; and if he never spoke to her at all, it would be marked
reprehension, which would be far better than sarcasm. He was evidently conscious of her presence;
for when, in her insatiable thirst, she had drained her own supply of water, she found the
little bottle quietly exchanged for that before him. It was far on in the dinner before Emily's
attention was claimed by the gentleman on her other hand, and then there was a space of silence
before Captain Keith almost made Rachel start, by saying--

"This has come about far more painfully than could have been expected."

"I thought you would have triumphed," she said.

"No, indeed. I feel accountable for the introduction that my sister brought upon you."

"It was no fault of hers," said Rachel, sadly.

"I wish I could feel it so."

"That was a mere chance. The rest was my own doing."

"Aided and abetted by more than one looker-on."

"No. It is I who am accountable," she said, repeating Mr. Grey's words.

"You accept the whole?"

It was his usual, cool, dry tone; but as she replied, "I must," she involuntarily looked up,
with a glance of entreaty to be spared, and she met those dark, grey, heavy-lidded eyes fixed
on her with so much concern as almost to unnerve her.

"You cannot," he answered; "every bystander must rue the apathy that let you be so cruelly
deceived, for want of exertion on their part."

"Nay," she said; "you tried to open my eyes. I think this would have come worse, but for this
morning's stroke."

"Thank you," he said, earnestly.

"I daresay you know more than I have been able to understand," she presently added; "it is
like being in the middle of an explosion, without knowing what stands or falls."

"And lobster salad as an aggravation!" said he, as the dish successively persecuted them. "This
dinner is hard on you."

"Very; but my mother would have been unhappy if I had stayed away. It is the leaving the poor
child that grieves me. She is in a fearful state, between sore throat, starvation, and blows."

The picture of the effect of the blows coming before Rachel at that moment, perilled her ability
even to sit through the dinner; but her companion saw the suddening whitening of her cheek,
and by a dexterous signal at once caused her glass to be filled. Habit was framing her lips
to say something about never drinking wine; but somehow she felt a certain compulsion in his
look, and her compliance restored her. She returned to the subject, saying, "But it was only
the woman that was cruel."

"She had not her Sepoy face for nothing."

"Did I hear that Miss Williams knew her?"

"Yes, it seems she was a maid who had once been very cruel to little Rose Williams. The Colonel
seems to think the discovery may have important consequences. I hardly know how."

This conversation sent Rachel out of the dining-room more like herself than she had entered
it; but she ran upstairs at once to Lovedy, and remained with her till disinterred by the desperate
Grace, who could not see three people talking together without blushing with indignation at
the construction they were certainly putting on her sister's scarlet cheeks and absence from
the drawing-room. With all Grace's efforts, however, she could not bring her truant back before
the gentlemen had come in. Captain Keith had seen their entrance, and soon came up to Rachel.

"How is your patient?" he asked.

"She is very ill; and the worst of it is, that it seems such agony to her to attempt to swallow."

"Have you had advice for her?"

"No; I have often treated colds, and I thought this a case, aggravated by that wicked treatment."

"Have you looked into her mouth?"

"Yes; the skin is frightfully brown and dry."

He leant towards her, and asked, in an under tone--

"Did you ever see diphtheria?"

"No!"--her brow contracting--"did you?"

"Yes; we had it through all the children of the regiment at Woolwich."

"You think this is it?"

He asked a few more questions, and his impression was evidently confirmed.

"I must send for Mr. Frampton," said Rachel, homeopathy succumbing to her terror; but then,
with a despairing glance, she beheld all the male part of the establishment handing tea.

"Where does he live? I'll send him up."

"Thank you, oh! thank you. The house with the rails, under the east cliff."

He was gone, and Rachel endured the reeling of the lights, and the surges of talk, and the
musical performances that seemed to burst the drum of her ear; and, after all, people went
away, saying to each other that there was something very much amiss, and that poor dear Mrs.
Curtis was very much to blame for not having controlled her daughters.

They departed at last, and Grace, without uttering the terrible word, was explaining to the
worn-out mother that little Lovedy was more unwell, and that Captain Keith had kindly offered
to fetch the doctor, when the Captain himself returned.

"I am sorry to say that Mr. Frampton is out, not likely to be at home till morning, and his
partner is with a bad accident at Avonford. The best plan will be for me to ride back to Avoncester,
and send out Macvicar, our doctor. He is a kind-hearted man, of much experience in this kind
of thing."

"But you are not going back," said polite Mrs. Curtis, far from taking in the urgency of the
case. "You were to sleep at Colonel Keith's. I could not think of your taking the trouble."

"I have settled that with the Colonel, thank you. My dog-cart will be here directly."

"I can only say, thank you," said Rachel, earnestly. "But is there nothing to be done in the
meantime? Do you know the treatment?"

He knew enough to give a few directions, which revealed to poor Mrs. Curtis the character of
the disease.

"That horrible new sore throat! Oh, Rachel, and you have been hanging over her all this time!"

"Indeed," said Alick Keith, coming to her. "I think you need not be alarmed. The complaint
seems to me to depend on the air and locality. I have been often with people who had it."

"And not caught it?"

"No; though one poor little fellow, our piper's son, would not try to take food from any one
else, and died at last on my knee. I do not believe it is infectious in that way."

And hearing his carriage at the door, he shook hands, and hurried off, Mrs. Curtis observing--

"He really is a very good young man. But oh, Rachel, my dear, how could you bring her here?"

"I did not know, mother. Any way it is better than her being in Mrs. Kelland's hive of children."

"You are not going back to her, Rachel, I entreat!"

"Mother, I must. You heard what Captain Keith said. Let that comfort you. It would be brutal
cruelty and cowardice to stay away from her to night. Good night, Grace, make mother see that
it must be so."

She went, for poor Mrs. Curtis could not withstand her; and only turned with tearful eyes to
her elder daughter to say, "You do not go into the room again, Grace, I insist."

Grace could not bear to leave Rachel to the misery of such a vigil, and greatly reproached
herself for the hurry that had prevented her from paying any heed to the condition of the child
in her anxiety to make her sister presentable; but Mrs. Curtis was in a state of agitation
that demanded all the care and tenderness of this "mother's child," and the sharing her room
and bed made it impossible to elude the watchfulness that nervously guarded the remaining daughter.

It was eleven o'clock when Alexander Keith drove from the door. It was a moonlight night, and
he was sure to spare no speed, but he could hardly be at Avoncester within an hour and a half,
and the doctor would take at least two in coming out. Mrs. Kelland was the companion of Rachel's
watch. The woman was a good deal subdued. The strangeness of the great house tamed her, and
she was shocked and frightened by the little girl's state as well as by the young lady's grave,
awe-struck, and silent manner.

They tried all that Captain Keith had suggested, but the child was too weak and spent to inhale
the steam of vinegar, and the attempts to make her swallow produced fruitless anguish. They
could not discover how long it was since she had taken any nourishment, and they already knew
what a miserable pittance hers had been at the best. Mrs. Kelland gave her up at once, and
protested that she was following her mother, and that there was death in her face. Rachel made
an imperious gesture of silence, and was obeyed so far as voice went, but long-drawn sighs
and shakes of the head continued to impress on her the aunt's hopelessness, throughout the
endeavours to change the position, the moistening of the lips, the attempts at relief in answer
to the choked effort to cough, the weary, faint moan, the increasing faintness and exhaustion.

One o'clock struck, and Mrs. Kelland said, in a low, ominous voice, "It is the turn of the
night, Miss Rachel. You bad best leave her to me."

"I will never leave her," said Rachel impatiently.

"You are a young lady, Miss Rachel, you ain't used to the like of this."

"Hark!" Rachel held up her finger.

Wheels were crashing up the hill. The horrible responsibility was over, the immediate terror
gone, help seemed to be coming at the utmost speed, and tears of relief rushed into Rachel's
eyes, tears that Lovedy must have perceived, for she spoke the first articulate words she had
uttered since the night-watch had begun, "Please, ma'am, don't fret, I'm going to poor mother."

"You will be better now, Lovedy, here is the doctor," said Rachel, though conscious that this
was not the right thing, and then she hastened out on the stairs to meet the gaunt old Scotsman
and bring him in. He made Mrs. Kelland raise the child, examined her mouth, felt her feet and
hands, which were fast becoming chill, and desired the warm flannels still to be applied to them.

"Cannot her throat be operated on?" said Rachel, a tremor within her heart. "I think we could
both be depended on if you wanted us."

"She is too far gone, poor lassie," was the answer; "it would be mere cruelty to torment her.
You had better go and lie down, Miss Curtis; her mother and I can do all she is like to need."

"Is she dying?"

"I doubt if she can last an hour longer. The disease is in an advanced state, and she was in
too reduced a state to have battled with it, even had it been met earlier."

"As it should have been! Twice her destroyer!" sighed Rachel, with a bursting heart, and again
the kind doctor would have persuaded her to leave the room, but she turned from him and came
back to Lovedy, who had been roused by what had been passing, and had been murmuring something
which had set her aunt off into sobs.

"She's saying she've been a bad girl to me, poor lamb, and I tell her not to think of it! She
knows it was for her good, if she had not been set against her work."

Dr. Macvicar authoritatively hushed the woman, but Lovedy looked up with flushed cheeks, and
the blue eyes that had been so often noticed for their beauty. The last flush of fever had
come to finish the work.

"Don't fret," she said, "there's no one to beat me up there! Please, the verse about the tears."

Dr. Macvicar and the child both looked towards Rachel, but her whole memory seemed scared away,
and it was the old Scotch army surgeon that repeated--

"'The Lord God shall wipe off tears from all eyes.' Ah! poor little one, you are going from
a world that has been full of woe to you."

"Oh, forgive me, forgive me, my poor child," said Rachel, kneeling by her, the tears streaming
down silently.

"Please, ma'am, don't cry," said the little girl feebly; "you were very good to me. Please
tell me of my Saviour," she added to Rachel. It sounded like set phraseology, and she knew
not how to begin; but Dr. Macvicar's answer made the lightened look come back, and the child
was again heard to whisper--"Ah! I knew they scourged Him--for me."

This was the last they did hear, except the sobbing breaths, ever more convulsive. Rachel had
never before been present with death, and awe and dismay seemed to paralyse her whole frame.
Even the words of hope and prayer for which the child's eyes craved from both her fellow-watchers
seemed to her a strange tongue, inefficient to reach the misery of this untimely mortal agony,
this work of neglect and cruelty--and she the cause.

Three o'clock had struck before the last painful gasp had been drawn, and Mrs. Kelland's sobbing
cry broke forth. Dr. Macvicar told Rachel that the child was at rest. She shivered from head
to foot, her teeth chattered, and she murmured, "Accountable for all."

Dr. Macvicar at once made her swallow some of the cordial brought for the poor child, and then
summoning the maid whom Grace had stationed in the outer room, he desired her to put her young
mistress to bed without loss of time. The sole remaining desire of which she was conscious
was to be alone and in the dark, and she passively submitted.

CHAPTER XX. THE SARACEN'S HEAD.

 "Alas, he thought, how changed that mien,
  How changed those timid looks have been,
  Since years of guilt and of disguise
  Have steeled her brow and armed her eyes."
                                        Marmion.

"Are you sleepy, Rose? What a yawn!"

"Not sleepy, Aunt Ailie; only it is such a tiresome long day when the Colonel does not come in."

"Take care, Rosie; I don't know what we shall be good for at this rate."

"We? O Aunt Ermine, then you think it tiresome too. I know you do--"

"What's that, Rose!"

"It is! it is! I'll open the door for him."

The next moment Rose led her Colonel in triumph into the lamp-light. There was a bright light
in his eye, and yet he looked pale, grave, and worn; and Ermine's first observation was--

"How came Tibbie to let you out at this time of night?"

"I have not ventured to encounter Tibbie at all. I drove up to your door."

"You have been at St. Norbert's all this time," exclaimed Alison.

"Do you think no one can carry on a campaign at St. Norbert's but yourself and your generalissima,
Miss Ailie?" he said, stroking down Rose's brown hair.

"Then, if you have not gone home, you have had nothing to eat, and that is the reason you look
so tired," said Ermine.

"Yes; I had some luncheon at the Abbey."

"Then, at any rate, you shall have some tea. Rosie, run and fetch the little kettle."

"And the Beauchamp cup and saucer," added Rose, proudly producing the single relic of a well-remembered
set of olden times. "And please, please, Aunt Ermine, let me sit up to make it for him. I have
not seen him all day, you know; and it is the first time he ever drank tea in our house, except
make-believe with Violetta and Colinette."

"No, Rose. Your aunt says I spoil that child, and I am going to have my revenge upon you. You
must see the wild beast at his meals another time; for it just happens that I have a good deal
to say to your aunts, and it is not intended for your ears."

Rose showed no signs of being spoilt, for she only entreated to be allowed "just to put the
tea-things in order," and then, winking very hard, she said she would go.

"Here, Rose, if you please," said Ermine, clearing the space of table before her.

"Why, Aunt Ermine, I did not know you could make tea!"

"There are such things as extraordinary occasions, Rose. Now, good night, my sweet one."

"Good night, my Lady Discretion. We will make up for it one of these days. Don't stay away,
pray, Ailie," as Alison was following the child. "I have nothing to say till you come back."

"I know it is good news," said Ermine; "but it has cost you something, Colin."

Instead of answering, he received his cup from her, filled up her tea-pot, and said--

"How long is it since you poured out tea for me, Ermine?"

"Thirteen years next June, when you and Harry used to come in from the cricket field, so late
and hot that you were ashamed to present yourself in civilized society at the Great House."

"As if nobody from the Parsonage ever came down to look on at the cricket."

"Yes; being summoned by all the boys to see that nothing would teach a Scotchman cricket."

"Ah! you have got the last word, for here comes Ailie."

"Of course," said Alison, coming in; "Ermine has had the pith of the story, so I had better
ask at once what it is."

"That the Beauchamp Eleven beat Her Majesty's --th Foot on Midsummer Day, 1846, is the pith
of what I have as yet heard," said Ermine.

"And that Beauchamp ladies are every whit as full of mischief as they used to be in those days,
is the sum of what I have told," added Colin.

"Yes," said Ermine, "he has most loyally kept his word of reserving all for you. He has not
even said whether Mauleverer is taken."

"My story is grave and sad enough," said Colin, laying aside all his playfulness, and a serious
expression coming over his features; but, at the same time, the landlady's sandy cat, which,
like all other animals, was very fond of him, and had established herself on his knee as soon
as Rose had left it vacant, was receiving a certain firm, hard, caressing stroking, which resulted
in vehement purrs on her part, and was evidently an outlet of suppressed exaltation.

"Is he the same?" asked Alison.

"All in due time; unless, like Miss Rachel, you wish to tell me my story yourselves. By-the-bye,
how is that poor girl to-day?"

"Thoroughly knocked down. There is a sort of feverish lassitude about her that makes them very
anxious. They were hoping to persuade her to see Mr. Frampton when Lady Temple heard last."

"Poor thing! it has been a sad affair for her. Well, I told you I should go over this morning
and see Mr. Grey, and judge if anything could be done. I got to the Abbey at about eleven o'clock,
and found the policeman had just come back after serving the summons, with the news that Mauleverer
was gone."

"Gone!"

"Clean gone! Absconded from his lodgings, and left no traces behind him. But, as to the poor
woman, the policeman reported that she had been left in terrible distress, with the child extremely
ill, and not a penny, not a thing to eat in the house. He came back to ask Mr. Grey what was
to be done; and as the suspicion of diphtheria made every one inclined to fight shy of the
house, I thought I had better go down and see what was to be done. I knocked a good while in
vain; but at last she looked out of window, and I told her I only wanted to know what could
be done for her child, and would send a doctor. Then she told me how to open the door. Poor
thing! I found her the picture of desolation, in the midst of the dreary kitchen, with the
child gasping on her lap; all the pretence of widowhood gone, and her hair hanging loose about
her face, which was quite white with hunger, and her great eyes looked wild, like the glare
of a wild beast's in a den. I spoke to her by her own name, and she started and trembled, and
said, 'Did Miss Alison tell you?' I said, 'Yes,' and explained who I was, and she caught me
up half way: 'O yes, yes, my lady's nephew, that was engaged to Miss Ermine!' And she looked
me full and searchingly in the face, Ermine, when I answered 'Yes.' Then she almost sobbed,
'And you are true to her;' and put her hands over her face in an agony. It was a very strange
examination on one's constancy, and I put an end to it by asking if she had any friends at
home that I could write to for her; but she cast that notion from her fiercely, and said she
had no friend, no one. He had left her to her fate, because the child was too ill to be moved.
And indeed the poor child was in such a state that there was no thinking of anything else,
and I went at once to find a doctor and a nurse."

"Diphtheria again?"

"Yes; and she, poor thing, was in no state to give it the resolute care that is the only chance.
Doctors could be easily found, but I was at my wit's end for a nurse, till I remembered that
Mr. Mitchell had told me of a Sisterhood that have a Home at St. Norbert's, with a nursing
establishment attached to it. So, in despair, I went there, and begged to see the Superior,
and a most kind and sensible lady I found her, ready to do anything helpful. She lent me a
nice little Sister, rather young, I thought; but who turned out thoroughly efficient, nearly
as good as a doctor. Still, whether the child lives is very doubtful, though the mother was
full of hope when I went in last. She insisted that I had saved it, when both she and it had
been deserted by Maddox, for whom she had given up everything."

"Then she owned that he was Maddox?"

"She called him so, without my even putting the question to her. She had played his game long
enough; and now his desertion has evidently put an end to all her regard for him. It was confusedly
and shortly told; the child was in a state that prevented attention being given to anything
else; but she knows that she had been made a tool of to ruin her master and you, and the sight
of you, Ailie, had evidently stirred up much old affection, and remembrance of better days."

"Is she his wife?"

"No, or the evidence she promises could not be used against him. Do you know this, Ermine?"
as he gave her a cover, with a seal upon it.

"The Saracen! the Saracen's head, Colin; it was made with the lost seal-ring!"

"The ring was taken from Edward's dressing-room the night when Rose was frightened with the
phosphorus. Maria declares that she did not suspect the theft, or Maddox's purpose, till long
after she had left her place. He effected his practices under pretence of attachment to her,
and then could not shake her off. She went abroad with him after the settlement of affairs;
but he could not keep out of gambling speculation, and lost everything. Then he seems to have
larked about, obtaining means she knew not how--as artist, lecturer, and what not--till the
notable F. U. E. E. was started. Most likely he would have collected the subscriptions and
made off with them, if Rachel Curtis had not had just sense enough to trust him with nothing
without seeing some result, so that he was forced to set the affair going with Maria at its
head, as the only person who could co-operate with him. They kept themselves ready for a start
whenever there should be symptoms of a discovery, but, in the meantime, he gambled away all
that he got into his hands, and never gave her enough to feed the children. Thus she was absolutely
driven to force work from them for subsistence; and she is a passionate creature, whom jealousy
embittered more and more, so that she became more savage than she knew. Poor thing! She has
her punishment. Maddox only came home, yesterday, too late for any train before the mail, and
by that time the child was too ill to be moved. He must have thought it all up with him, and
wished to be rid of both, for they quarrelled, and he left her to her misery."

"What, gone?"

"Yes, but she told us of his haunts--haunts that he thought she did not know--a fancy shop,
kept by a Mrs. Dench at Bristol, where it seems that he plays the philanthropical lecturer,
and probably has been trying to secure a snug berth for himself unknown, as he thought, to
Maria; but she pried into his letters, and kept a keen watch upon him. He was to be inquired
for there by his Mauleverer name, and, I have little doubt, will be captured."

"And then?"

"He will be committed for trial at the sessions; and, in the meantime, I must see Beauchamp
and Dr. Long, and arrange that he should be prosecuted for the forgery, even though he should
slip through our fingers at the sessions."

"Oh, could that be?"

"This Clever Woman has managed matters so sweetly, that they might just as well try her as
him for obtaining money on false pretences; and the man seems to have been wonderfully sharp
in avoiding committing himself. Mrs. Curtis's man of business has been trying all day to get
up the case, but he has made out nothing but a few more debts such as that which turned up
yesterday; and it is very doubtful how far a case can be made out against him."

"And then we should lose him."

"That is exactly what I wish to avoid. I want to bring up my forces at once, and have him laid
hold of at once for the forgery of those letters of Edward's. How long would it take to hear
from Ekaterinburg? I suppose Edward could travel as fast as a letter."

Alison fairly sprang to her feet.

"O, Colin, Colin! you do not think that Edward would be here by the next sessions."

"He ought," said Colin. "I hope to induce Dr. Long and Harry to write him such letters as to
bring him home at once."

Self-restrained Alison was fairly overcome. She stretched out both hands, pressed Colin's convulsively,
then turned away her face, and, bursting into tears, ran out of the room.

"Poor dear Ailie," said Ermine; "she has suffered terribly. Her heart is full of Edward. Oh,
I hope he will come."

"He must. He cannot be so senseless as to stay away."

"There is that unfortunate promise to his wife; and I fear that he is become so much estranged
from English ways that he will hardly care to set himself straight here, after the pain that
the universal suspicion gave him."

"He cannot but care. For the sake of all he must care," vehemently repeated Colin, with the
punctilious honour of the nobly-born soldier. "For his child's sake, this would be enough to
bring him from his grave. If he refused to return to the investigation, it would be almost
enough to make me doubt him."

"I am glad you said almost," said Ermine, trying to smile; but he had absolutely brought tears
into her eyes.

"Dear Ermine," he said, gently, "you need not fear my not trusting him to the utmost. I know
that he has been too much crushed to revive easily, and that it may not be easy to make him
appreciate our hopes from such a distance; but I think such a summons as this must bring him."

"I hope it will," said Ermine. "Otherwise we should not deserve that you should have any more
to do with us."

"Ermine, Ermine, do you not know that nothing can make any difference between us?"

Ermine had collected herself while he spoke.

"I know," she said, "that all you are doing makes me thank and bless you--oh! more than I can
speak."

He looked wistfully at her, but, tearful as were her eyes, there was a resolution, about her
face that impressed upon him that she trusted to his promise of recurring no more within the
year to the subject so near his heart; and he could say no more than, "You forgive me, Ermine,
you know I trust him as you do."

"I look to your setting him above being only trusted," said Ermine, trying to smile. "Oh! if
you knew what this ray of hope is in the dreary darkness that has lasted so long!"

Therewith he was obliged to leave her, and she only saw him for a few minutes in the morning,
when he hurried in to take leave, since, if matters went right at the magistrates' bench, he
intended to proceed at once to make such representations in person to Mr. Beauchamp and Dr.
Long, as might induce them to send an urgent recall to Edward in time for the spring sessions,
and for this no time must be lost. Ermine remained then alone with Rose, feeling the day strangely
long and lonely, and that, perhaps, its flatness might be a preparation for the extinction
of all the brightness that had of late come into her life. Colin had said he would trust as
she did, but those words had made her aware that she must trust as he did. If he, with his
clear sense and kindly insight into Edward's character, became convinced that his absence proceeded
from anything worse than the mere fainthearted indifference that would not wipe off a blot,
then Ermine felt that his judgment would carry her own along with it, and that she should lose
her undoubting faith in her brother's perfect innocence, and in that case her mind was made
up; Colin might say and do what he would, but she would never connect him through herself with
deserved disgrace. The parting, after these months of intercourse and increased knowlege of
one another, would be infinitely more wretched than the first; but, cost her what it would--her
life perhaps--the break should be made rather than let his untainted name be linked with one
where dishonour justly rested. But with her constant principle of abstinence from dwelling
on contingencies, she strove to turn away her mind, and to exert herself; though this was no
easy task, especially on so solitary a day as this, while Alison was in charge at Myrtlewood
in Lady Temple's absence, and Rachel Curtis was reported far too ill to leave her room, so
that Ermine saw no one all day except her constant little companion; nor was it till towards
evening that Alison at length made her appearance, bringing a note which Colin had sent home
by Lady Temple.

All had so far gone well. Maria Hatherton had been committed to take her trial at the quarter
sessions for the assault upon the children; but, as her own little girl was still living, though
in extreme danger, and the Sisters promised to take charge of both for the present, Colonel
Keith had thought it only common humanity to offer bail, and this had been accepted. Later
in the day Mauleverer himself had been brought down, having been taken up at a grand meeting
of his Bristol friends, who had all rallied round him, expressing strong indignation at the
accusation, and offering evidence as to character. He denied any knowledge of the name of Maddox,
and declared that he was able to prove that his own account of himself as a popular, philanthropical
lecturer was perfectly correct; and he professed to be much amazed at the charges brought against
him, which could only have arisen from some sudden alarm in the young lady's mind, excited
by her friends, whom he had always observed to be prejudiced against him. He appealed strongly
against the hardship of being imprisoned on so slight a charge; but, as he could find no one
to take his part, he reserved his defence for the quarter sessions, for which he was fully
committed. Colin thought, however, that it was so doubtful whether the charges against him
could be substantiated, that it was highly necessary to be fully prepared to press the former
forgery against him, and had therefore decided upon sleeping at St. Norbert's and going on
by an early train to obtain legal advice in London, and then to see Harry Beauchamp. Meantime,
Ermine must write to her brother as urgently as possible, backing up Colin's own representations
of the necessity of his return.

Ermine read eagerly, but Alison seemed hardly able to command her attention to listen, and
scarcely waited for the end of the letter before her own disclosure was made. Francis was sickening
with diphtheria; he had been left behind in the morning on account of some outbreak of peevishness,
and Alison, soon becoming convinced that temper was not solely in fault, had kept him apart
from his brothers, and at last had sent for the doctor, who had at once pronounced it to be
the same deadly complaint which had already declared itself in Rachel Curtis. Alison had of
course devoted herself to the little boy till his mother's return from St. Norbert's, when
she had been obliged to give the first intimation of what the price of the loving little widow's
exploit might be. "I don't think she realizes the extent of the illness," said Alison; "say
what I would, she would keep on thanking me breathlessly, and only wanting to escape to him.
I asked if we should send to let Colin know, and she answered in her dear, unselfish way, 'By
no means, it would be safer for him to be out of the way,' and, besides, she knew how much
depended on his going."

"She is right," said Ermine; "I am thankful that he is out of reach of trying to take a share
in the nursing, it is bad enough to have one in the midst!"

"Yes," said Alison. "Lady Temple cannot be left to bear this grievous trouble alone, and when
the Homestead cannot help her. Yet, Ermine, what can be done? Is it safe for you and Rose?"

"Certainly not safe that you should come backwards and forwards," said Ermine. "Rose must not
be put in danger; so, dear, dear Ailie, you had better take your things up, and only look in
on us now and then at the window."

Alison entirely broke down. "Oh, Ermine, Ermine, since you began to mend, not one night have
we been apart!"

"Silly child," said Ermine, straining her quivering voice to be cheerful, "I am strong, and
Rose is my best little handmaid."

"I know it is right," said Alison, "I could not keep from my boys, and, indeed, now Colin is
gone, I do not think any one at Myrtlewood will have the heart to carry out the treatment.
It will almost kill that dear young mother to see it. No, they cannot be left; but oh, Ermine,
it is like choosing between you and them."

"Not at all, it is choosing between right and wrong."

"And Ermine, if--if I should be ill, you must not think of coming near me. Rose must not be
left alone."

"There is no use in talking of such things," said Ermine, resolutely, "let us think of what
must be thought of, not of what is in the only Wise Hands. What has been done about the other
children?"

"I have kept them away from the first; I am afraid for none of them but Conrade."

"It would be the wisest way to send them, nurses and all, to Gowanbrae."

"Wise, but cool," said Alison.

"I will settle that," returned Ermine. "Tibbie shall come and invite them, and you must make
Lady Temple consent."

The sisters durst not embrace, but gazed at one another, feeling that it might be their last
look, their hearts swelling with unspoken prayer, but their features so restrained that neither
might unnerve the other. Then it was that Alison, for the first time, felt absolute relief
in the knowledge, once so bitter, that she had ceased to be the whole world to her sister.
And Ermine, for one moment, felt as if it would be a way out of all troubles and perplexities
if the two sisters could die together, and leave little Rose to be moulded by Colin to be all
he wished; but she resolutely put aside the future, and roused herself to send a few words
in pencil, requesting Tibbie to step in and speak to her.

That worthy personage had fully adopted her, and entering, tall and stately, in her evening
black silk and white apron, began by professing her anxiety to be any assistance in her power,
saying, "she'd be won'erfu' proud to serve Miss Williams, while her sister was sae thrang waitin'
on her young scholar in his sair trouble."

Emmie thanked her, and rejoiced that the Colonel was out of harm's way.

"Deed, aye, ma'am, he's weel awa'. He has sic a wark wi' thae laddies an' their bit bairn o'
a mither, I'll no say he'd been easy keepit out o' the thick o' the distress, an' it's may
be no surprisin', after a' that's come and gane, that he seeks to take siccan a lift of the
concern. I've mony a time heard tell that the auld General, Sir Stephen, was as good as a faither
to him, when he was sick an' lonesome, puir lad, in yon far awa' land o' wild beasts an' savages."

"Would it not be what he might like, to take in the children out of the way of infection?"

"'Deed, Miss Ermine," with a significant curtsey, "I'm thinkin' ye ken my maister Colin amaist
as weel as I do. He's the true son of his forbears, an' Gowanbrae used to be always open in
the auld lord's time, that's his grandfather Foreby, that he owes so much kindness to the General."

Ermine further suggested that it was a pity to wait for a letter from the Colonel, and Tibbie
quite agreed. She "liked the nurse as an extraordinar' douce woman, not like the fine English
madams that Miss Isabel--that's Mrs. Comyn Menteith--put about her bairns; and as to room,
the sergeant and the tailor bodie did not need much, and the masons were only busy in the front
parlour."

"Masons?" asked Ermine.

"On, aye? didna ye ken it's for the new room, that is to be built out frae the further parlour,
and what they ca' the bay to the drawin'-room, just to mak' the house more conformable like
wi' his name and forbears. I never thocht but that ye'd surely seen the plans and a', Miss
Ermine, an' if so be it was Maister Colin's pleasure the thing suld be private, I'm real vext
to hae said a word; but ye'll may be no let on to him, ma'am, that ye ken onything about it."

"Those down-stairs rooms so silently begun," thought Ermine. "How fixed his intention must
be? Oh, how will it end? What would be best for him? And how can I think of myseif, while all,
even my Ailie, are in distress and danger?"

Ermine had, however, a good deal to think of, for not only had she Colin's daily letter to
answer, but she had Conrade, Leoline, and Hubert with her for several hours every day, and
could not help being amused by Rose's ways with them, little grown-up lady as she was compared
to them. Luckily girls were such uncommon beings with them as to be rather courted than despised,
and Rose, having nothing of the tom-boy, did not forfeit the privileges of her sex. She did
not think they compensated for her Colonel's absence, and never durst introduce Violetta to
them; but she enjoyed and profited by the contact with childhood, and was a very nice little
comforter to Conrade when he was taken with a fit of anxiety for the brother whom he missed
every moment.

Quarantine weighed, however, most heavily upon poor Grace Curtis. Rachel had from the first
insisted that she should be kept out of her room; and the mother's piteous entreaty always
implied that saddest argument, "Why should I be deprived of you both in one day?" So Grace
found herself condemned to uselessness almost as complete as Ermine's. She could only answer
notes, respond to inquiries, without even venturing far enough from the house to see Ermine,
or take out the Temple children for a walk. For indeed, Rachel's state was extremely critical.

The feverish misery that succeeded Lovedy's death had been utterly crushing, the one load of
self-accusation had prostrated her, but with a restlessness of agony, that kept her writhing
as it were in her wretchedness; and then came the gradual increase of physical suffering, bearing
in upon her that she had caught the fatal disorder. To her sense of justice, and her desire
to wreak vengeance on herself, the notion might be grateful; but the instinct of self-preservation
was far stronger. She could not die. The world here, the world to come, were all too dark,
too confused, to enable her to bear such a doom. She saw her peril in her mother's face; in
the reiterated visits of the medical man, whom she no longer spurned; in the calling in of
the Avoncester physician; in the introduction of a professional nurse, and the strong and agonizing
measures to which she had to submit, every time with the sensation that the suffering could
not possibly be greater without exceeding the powers of endurance.

Then arose the thought that with weakness she should lose all chance of expressing a wish,
and, obtaining pencil and paper, she began to write a charge to her mother and sister to provide
for Mary Morris; but in the midst there came over her the remembrance of the papers that she
had placed in Mauleverer's hands--the title-deeds of the Burnaby Bargain; an estate that perhaps
ought to be bringing in as much as half the rental of the property. It must be made good to
the poor. If the title-deeds had been sold to any one who could claim the property, what would
be the consequence? She felt herself in a mist of ignorance and perplexity; dreading the consequences,
yet feeling as if her own removal might leave her fortune free to make up for them. She tried
to scrawl an explanation; but mind and fingers were alike unequal to the task, and she desisted
just as fresh torture began at the doctor's hands--torture from which they sent her mother
away, and that left her exhausted, and despairing of holding out through a repetition.

And then--and then! "Tell me of my Saviour," the dying child had said; and the drawn face had
lightened at the words to which Rachel's oracles declared that people attached crude or arbitrary
meanings; and now she hardly knew what they conveyed to her, and longed, as for something far
away, for the reality of those simple teachings--once realities, now all by rote! Saved by
faith! What was faith? Could all depend on a last sensation? And as to her life. Failure, failure
through headstrong blindness and self-will, resulting in the agony of the innocent. Was this
ground of hope? She tried to think of progress and purification beyond the grave; but this
was the most speculative, insecure fabric of all. There was no habit of trust to it--no inward
conviction, no outward testimony. And even when the extreme danger subsided, and Francis Temple
was known to be better, Rachel found that her sorrow was not yet ended: for Conrade had been
brought home with the symptoms of the complaint--Conrade, the most beloved and loving of Fanny's
little ones, the only one who really remembered his father, was in exceeding, almost hopeless
peril, watched day and night by his mother and Miss Williams.

The little Alice, Maria Hatherton's own child, had lingered and struggled long, but all the
care and kindness of the good Sisters at St. Norbert's had been unavailing, she had sunk at
last, and the mother remained in a dull, silent, tearless misery, quietly doing all that was
required of her, but never speaking nor giving the ladies any opening to try to make an impression
upon her.

Rachel gleaned more intelligence than her mother meant her to obtain, and brooded over it in
her weakness and her silence.

Recovery is often more trying than illness, and Rachel suffered greatly. Indeed, she was not
sure that she ought to have recovered at all, and perhaps the shock to her nerves and spirits
was more serious than the effect of the sharp passing disorder, which had, however, so much
weakened her that she succumbed entirely to the blow. "Accountable for all," the words still
rang in her ears, and the all for which she was accountable continually magnified itself. She
had tied a dreadful knot, which Fanny, meek contemned Fanny had cut, but at the cost of grievous
suffering and danger to her boys, and too late to prevent that death which continually haunted
Rachel; those looks of convulsive agony came before her in all her waking and sleeping intervals.
Nothing put them aside, occupation in her weakness only bewildered and distracted her, and
even though she was advancing daily towards convalescence, leaving her room, and being again
restored to her sister, she still continued listless, dejected, cast down, and unable to turn
her mind from this one dreary contemplation. Of Fanny and her sons it was hardly possible to
think, and one of the strange perturbations of the mind in illness caused her to dwell far
less on them than on the minor misery of the fate of the title-deeds of the Burnaby Bargain,
which she had put into Mauleverer's hand. She fancied their falling into the hands of some
speculator, who, if he did not break the mother's heart by putting up a gasometer, would certainly
wring it by building hideous cottages, or desirable marine residences. The value would be enhanced
so as to be equal to more than half that of the Homestead, the poor would have been cheated
of it, and what compensation could be made? Give up all her own share? Nay, she had nothing
absolutely her own while her mother lived, only £5,000 was settled on her if she married, and
she tortured herself with devising plans that she knew to be impracticable, of stripping herself,
and going forth to suffer the poverty she merited. Yes, but how would she have lived? Not like
the Williamses! She had tried teaching like the one, and writing like the other, but had failed
in both. The Clever Woman had no marketable or available talent. She knew very well that nothing
would induce her mother and sister to let her despoil herself, but to have injured them would
be even more intolerable; and more than all was the sickening uncertainty, whether any harm
had been done, or what would be its extent.

Ignorant of such subjects at the best, her brain was devoid of force even to reason out her
own conjectures, or to decide what must be impossible. She felt compelled to keep all to herself;
to alarm her mother was out of the question, when Mrs. Curtis was distressed and shaken enough
already, and to have told Grace would only have brought her soothing promises of sharing the
burthen--exactly what she did not want--and would have led to the fact being known to the family
man of business, Mr. Cox, the very last person to whom Rachel wished to confess the proceeding.
It was not so much the humiliation of owning to him such a fatal act of piracy upon his province,
as because she believed him to have been the cause that the poor had all this time been cheated
of the full value of the estate. He had complacently consulted the welfare of the Curtis family,
by charging them with the rent of the fields as ordinary grass land, and it had never dawned
on him that it would be only just to increase the rent. Rachel had found him an antagonist
to every scheme she had hatched, ever since she was fifteen years old, her mother obeyed him
with implicit faith, and it was certain that if the question were once in his hands, he would
regard it as his duty to save the Curtis funds, and let the charity sink or swim. And he was
the only person out of the house whom Rachel had seen.

As soon as--or rather before--she could bear it, the first day that her presence was supposed
not to be perilous to others, she was obliged to have an interview with him, to enable him
to prepare the case for the quarter sessions. Nothing could be much worse for her nerves and
spirits, but even the mother was absolutely convinced of the necessity, and Rachel was forced
to tax her enfeebled powers to enable her to give accurate details of her relations with Mauleverer,
and enable him to judge of the form of the indictment. Once or twice she almost sunk back from
the exceeding distastefulness of the task, but she found herself urged on, and when she even
asked what would happen if she were not well enough to appear, she was gravely told that she
must be--it would be very serious if she did not make a great effort, and even her mother shook
her head, looked unhappy, but confirmed the admonition. A little revenge or hatred would have
been a great help to her, but she could not feel them as impulses. If it had been the woman,
she could have gladly aided in visiting such cruelty upon her, but this had not been directly
chargeable upon Mauleverer; and though Rachel felt acutely that he had bitterly abused her
confidence, she drooped too much to feel the spirit of retort. The notion of being confronted
with him before all the world at Avoncester, and being made to bring about his punishment,
was simply dreadful to her, but when she murmured some word of this to her mother, Mrs. Curtis
fairly started, and said quite fiercely, "My dear, don't let me hear you say any such thing.
He is a very wicked man, and you ought to be glad to have him punished!"

She really spoke as if she had been rebuking some infringement of decorum, and Rachel was quite
startled. She asked Grace why the mother was so bent on making her vindictive, but Grace only
answered that every one must be very much shocked, and turned away the subject.

Prudent Grace! Her whole soul was in a tumult of wrath and shame at what she knew to be the
county gossip, but she was aware that Rachel's total ignorance of it was the only chance of
her so comporting herself in court as to silence the rumour, and she and her mother were resolutely
discreet.

Mrs. Curtis, between nursing, anxiety, and worry, looked lamentably knocked up, and at last
Grace and Rachel prevailed on her to take a drive, leaving Rachel on a sofa in her sitting-room,
to what was no small luxury to her just at present--that of being miserable alone--without
meeting any one's anxious eyes, or knowing that her listlessness was wounding the mother's
heart. Yet the privilege only resulted in a fresh perturbation about the title-deeds, and longing
to consult some one who could advise and sympathize. Ermine Williams would have understood
and made her Colonel give help, but Ermine seemed as unattainable as Nova Zembla, and she only
heard that the Colonel was absent. Her head as aching with the weary load of doubt, and she
tried to cheat her woe by a restless movement to the windows. She saw Captain Keith riding
to the door. It suddenly darted into her mind that here was one who could and would help her.
He could see Mauleverer and ascertain what had become of the deeds; he could guess at the amount
of danger! She could not forget his kindness on the night of Lovedy's illness, or the gentleness
of his manner about the woodcuts, and with a sudden impulse she rang the bell and desired that
Captain Keith might be shown in. She was still standing leaning on the table when he entered.

"This is very good in you," he said; "I met your mother and sister on my way up, and they asked
me to leave word of Conrade being better, but they did not tell me I should see you."

"Conrade is better?" said Rachel, sitting down, unable to stand longer.

"Yes, his throat is better. Miss Williams's firmness saved him. They think him quite out of
danger."

"Thank Heaven! Oh, I could never have seen his mother again! Oh, she has been the heroine!"

"In the truest sense of the word," he answered. And Rachel looked up with one moment's brightening
at the old allusion, but her oppression was too great for cheerfulness, and she answered--

"Dear Fanny, yes, she will be a rebuke to me for ever! But," she added, before he had time
to inquire for her health, "I wanted--I wanted to beg you to do me a service. You were so kind
the other night."

His reply was to lean earnestly forward, awaiting her words, and she told him briefly of her
grievous perplexity about the title-deeds.

"Then," he said, "you would wish for me to see the man and ascertain how he has disposed of them."

"I should be most grateful!"

"I will do my utmost. Perhaps I may not succeed immediately, as I believe visitors are not
admitted every day, and he is said to be busy preparing his defence, but I will try, and let
you know."

"Thanks, thanks! The doubt is terrible, for I know worry about it would distract my mother."

"I do not imagine," he said, "that much worse consequences than worry could ensue. But there
are none more trying."

"Oh not none!"

"Do not let worry about this increase other ills," he said, kindly, "do not think about this
again till you hear from me."

"Is that possible?"

"I should not have thought so, if I had not watched my uncle cast off troubles about his eye-sight
and the keeping his living."

"Ah! but those were not of his own making."

"'There is a sparkle even in the darkest water.' That was a saying of his," said Alick, looking
anxiously at her pale cheek and down-cast eye.

"Not when they are turbid."

"They will clear," he said, and smiled with a look of encouraging hope that again cheered her
in spite of herself. "Meantime remember that in any way I can help you, it will be the greatest
favour--" he checked himself as he observed the exceeding languor and lassitude apparent in
her whole person, and only said, "My sister is too much at the bottom of it for me not to feel
it the greatest kindness to me to let me try to be of the slightest use. I believe I had better
go now," as he rose and looked at her wistfully; "you are too much tired to talk."

"I believe I am," she said, almost reluctantly, "but thank you, this has done me good."

"And you are really getting better?"

"Yes, I believe so. Perhaps I may feel it when this terrible day is over."

What a comfort it would be, she said to herself, when he was gone, if we had but a near relation
like him, who would act for the mother, instead of our being delivered up, bound hand and foot,
to Mr. Cox. It would have been refreshing to have kept him now, if I could have done it without
talking; it really seemed to keep the horrible thoughts in abeyance, to hear that wonderfully
gentle tone! And how kind and soft the look was! I do feel stronger for it! Will it really
be better after next week? Alas! that will have undone nothing.

Yet even this perception of a possibility of hope that there would be relief after the ordeal,
was new to Rachel; and it soon gave way to that trying feature of illness, the insurmountable
dread of the mere physical fatigue. The Dean of Avoncester, a kind old friend of Mrs. Curtis,
had insisted on the mother and daughters coming to sleep at the Deanery, on the Tuesday night,
and remaining till the day after the trial; but Rachel's imagination was not even as yet equal
to the endurance of the long drive, far less of the formality of a visit. Lady Temple was likewise
asked to the Deanery, but Conrade was still too ill for her to think of leaving him for more
than the few needful hours of the trial; nor had Alison been able to do more than pay an occasional
visit at her sister's window to exchange reports, and so absorbed was she in her boys and their
mother, that it was quite an effort of recollection to keep up to Ermine's accounts of Colonel
Keith's doings.

It was on the Monday afternoon, the first time she had ventured into the room, taking advantage
of Rose having condescended to go out with the Temple nursery establishment, when she found
Ermine's transparent face all alive with expectation. "He may come any time now," she said;
"his coming to-day or to-morrow was to depend on his getting his business done on Saturday or not."

And in a few minutes' time the well-known knock was heard, and Ermine, with a look half arch
half gay, surprised her sister by rising with the aid of the arm of her chair, and adjusting
a crutch that had been leaning against it.

"Why Ermine! you could not bear the jarring of that crutch--"

"Five or six years ago, Ailie, when I was a much poorer creature," then as the door opened,
"I would make you a curtsey, Colonel Keith, but I am afraid I can't quite do that," though
still she moved nearer to meet him, but perhaps there was a look of helplessness which made
her exultation piteous, for he responded with an exclamation of alarm, put out his arm to support
her, and did not relax a frown of anxiety till he had placed her safe in her chair again, while
she laughed perhaps a little less freely, and said, "See what it is to have had to shift for
oneself!"

"You met me with your eyes the first time, Ermine, and I never missed anything."

"Well, I think it is hard not to have been more congratulated on my great achievement! I thought
I should have had at least as much credit as Widdrington, my favourite hero and model."

"When you have an arm to support you it may be all very well, and I shall never stand it without."
Then, as Ermine subsided, unprepared with a reply, "Well, Ailie, how are your boys?"

"Both much better, Francis nearly well."

"You have had a terrible time! And their mother?"

"Dearer and sweeter than ever," said Alison, with her voice trembling; "no one who has not
seen her now can guess half what she is!"

"I hope she has not missed me. If this matter had not been so pressing, I could not have stayed
away."

"The one message she always gave me was, that you were not to think of coming home; and, indeed,
those dear boys were so good, that we managed very well without you."

"Yes, I had faith in your discipline, and I think that matters are in train against Edward
comes. Of course there is no letter, or you would have told me."

"He will be coming himself," said Ermine, resolved against again expressing a doubt; while
Alison added that he hated letter-writing.

"Nothing could be more satisfactory than Beauchamp's letter," added Colin. "He was so thoroughly
convinced, that he immediately began to believe that he had trusted Edward all along, and had
only been overruled."

"I dare say," said Ermine, laughing; "I can quite fancy honest Harry completely persuaded that
he was Edward's champion, while Maddox was turning him round his finger."

"And such is his good faith, that I hope he will make Edward believe the same! I told you of
his sending his love to you, and of his hopes that you would some day come and see the old
place. He made his wife quite cordial."

Alison did not feel herself obliged to accept the message, and Ermine could freely say, "Poor
Harry! I should like to see him again! He would be exactly the same, I dare say. And how does
the old place look?"

"Just what I do not want you to see. They have found out that the Rectory is unhealthy, and
stuck up a new bald house on the top of the hill; and the Hall is new furnished in colours
that set one's teeth on edge. Nothing is like itself but Harry, and he only when you get him
off duty--without his wife! I was glad to get away to Belfast."

"And there, judging from Julia's letter, they must have nearly devoured you."

"They were very hospitable. Your sister is not so very unlike you, Ermine?"

"Oh, Colin!" exclaimed Alison, with an indignation of which she became ashamed, and added,
by way of making it better, "Perhaps not so very."

"She was very gracious to me," said Colin, smiling, "and we had much pleasant talk of you."

"Yes," said Ermine, "it will be a great pleasure to poor Julia to be allowed to take us up
again, and you thought the doctor sufficiently convinced."

"More satisfactorily so than Harry, for he reasoned out the matter, and seems to me to have
gone more by his impression that a man could not be so imprudent as Edward in good faith than
by Maddox's representation."

"That is true," said Alison, "he held out till Edward refused to come home, and then nothing
would make him listen to a word on his behalf."

"And it will be so again," thought Ermine, with a throb at her heart. Then she asked, "Did
you see whether there was a letter for you at home?"

"Yes, I looked in, and found only this, which I have only glanced at, from Bessie."

"From Paris?"

"Yes, they come home immediately after Easter. 'Your brother is resolved I should be presented,
and submit to the whole season in style; after which he says I may judge for myself.' What
people will do for pretty young wives! Poor Mary's most brilliant season was a winter at Edinburgh;
and it must be his doing more than hers, for she goes on: 'Is it not very hard to be precluded
all this time from playing the chieftainess in the halls of my forefathers? I shall have to
run down to your Gowanbrae to refresh myself, and see what you are all about, for I cannot
get the fragment of a letter from Alick; and I met an Avoncestrian the other day, who told
me that the whole county was in a state of excitement about the F. U. etc.; that every one
believed that the fascinating landscape-painter was on the high road to winning one of the
joint-heiresses; but that Lady Temple--the most incredible part of the story--had blown up
the whole affair, made her way into the penetralia of the asylum, and rescued two female 'prentices,
so nearly whipped to death that it took an infinitesimal quantity of Rachel's homoeopathy to
demolish one entirely, and that the virtuous public was highly indignant that there was no
inquest nor trial for manslaughter; but that it was certain that Rachel had been extremely
ill ever since. Poor Rachel, there must be some grain of truth in all this, but one would like
to be able to contradict it. I wrote to ask Alick the rights of the story, but he has not vouchsafed
me a line of reply; and I should take it as very kind in you to let me know whether he is in
the land of the living or gone to Edinburgh--as I hear is to be the lot of the Highlanders--or
pining for the uncroquetable lawn, to which I always told him he had an eye.'"

"She may think herself lucky he has not answered," said Ermine; "he has always been rather
unreasonably angry with her for making the introduction."

"That is the reason he has not," added Alison, "for he is certainly not far off. He has been
over almost every day to inquire, and played German tactics all Saturday afternoon with Francis
to our great relief. But I have stayed away long enough."

"I will walk back with you, Ailie. I must see the good little heroine of the most incredible
part of the story."

Lady Temple looked a good deal paler than when he had last seen her, and her eyelids still
showed that they had long arrears of sleep to make up; but she came down with outstretched
hands and a sunny smile. "They are so much better, and I am so glad you were not at home in
the worst of it."

"And I am sorry to have deserted you."

"Oh, no, no, it was much better that you should be away. We should all have wanted you, and
that would have been dangerous, and dear, dear Miss Williams did all that could be done. Do
you know, it taught me that you were right when you told me I ought never to rest till the
boys learnt to obey, for obedience' sake, at a word. It showed what a bad mother I am, for
I am sure if dear Conrade had been like what he was last year, even she could not have saved
him," said Fanny, her eyes full of tears.

Then came her details, to which he listened, as ever, like the brotherly friend he was, and
there was a good deal said about restoring the little ones, who were still at Gowanbrae, to
which he would by no means as yet consent, though Fanny owned herself to have time now to pine
for her Stephana, and to "hear how dismal it is to have a silent nursery."

"Yes, it has been a fearful time. We little guessed how much risk you ran when you went to
the rescue."

"Dear Con, when he thought--when we thought he could not get better, said I was not to mind
that, and I don't," said Fanny. "I thought it was right, and though I did not know this would
come of it, yet you see God has been very merciful, and brought both of my boys out of this
dreadful illness, and I dare say it will do them good all their lives now it is over. I am
sure it will to me, for I shall always be more thankful."

"Everything does you good," he said.

"And another thing," she added, eagerly, "it has made me know that dear Miss Williams so much
better. She was so good, so wonderfully good, to come away from her sister to us. I thought
she was quite gone the first day, and that I was alone with my poor Francie, and presently
there she was by my side, giving me strength and hope by her very look. I want to have her
for good, I want to make her my sister! She would teach the boys still, for nobody else could
make them good, but if ever her sister could spare her, she must never go away again."

"You had better see what she says," replied the Colonel, with suppressed emotion.

That night, when Conrade and Francis were both fast asleep, their mother and their governess
sat over the fire together, languid but happy, and told out their hearts to one another--told
out more than Alison had ever put into words even to Ermine, for her heart was softer and more
unreserved now than ever it had been since her sister's accident had crushed her youth. There
was thenceforth a bond between her and Lady Temple that gave the young widow the strong-hearted,
sympathizing, sisterly friend she had looked for in Rachel, and that filled up those yearnings
of the affection that had at first made Alison feel that Colin's return made the world dreary
to her. Her life had a purpose, though that purpose was not Ermine! But where were Edward and
his letter?

CHAPTER XXI. THE QUARTER SESSIONS.

"Is it so nominated in the bond?"--Merchant of Venice.

Malgre her disinclination, Rachel had reached the point of recovery in which the fresh air
and change of scene of the drive to Avoncester could not fail to act as restoratives, and the
first evening with the Dean and his gentle old sister was refreshing and comfortable to her
spirits.

It was in the afternoon of the ensuing day that Mr. Grey came to tell her that her presence
would soon be required, and both her mother and sister drove to the court with her. Poor Mrs.
Curtis, too anxious to go away, yet too nervous to go into court, chose, in spite of all Mr.
Grey's advice, to remain in the carriage with the blinds closed, far too miserable for Grace
to leave her.

Rachel, though very white, called up a heroic smile, and declared that she should get on very
well. Her spirit had risen to the occasion, so as to brace her nerves to go becomingly through
what was inevitable; and she replied with a ready "yes," to Mr. Grey's repetition of the advice
for ever dinned into her ears, not to say a word more than needful, feeling indeed little disposed
to utter anything that she could avoid.

She emerged from the dark passage into full view of faces which were far more familiar than
she could have wished. She would have greatly preferred appearing before a judge, robed, wigged,
and a stranger, to coming thus before a country gentleman, slightly known to herself, but an
old friend of her father, and looking only like his ordinary self.

All the world indeed was curious to see the encounter between Rachel Curtis and her impostor,
and every one who had contributed so much as a dozen stamps to the F. U. E. E. felt as if under
a personal wrong and grievance, while many hoped to detect other elements of excitement, so
that though all did not overtly stare at the witness, not even the most considerate could resist
the impulse to glance at her reception of the bow with which he greeted her entrance.

She bent her head instinctively, but there was no change of colour on her cheek. Her faculties
were concentrated, and her resolute will had closed all avenues to sensations that might impair
her powers; she would not give way either to shame and remorse for herself, or to pity or indignation
against the prisoner; she would attend only to the accuracy of the testimony that was required
of her as an expiation of her credulous incaution; but such was the tension of her nerves,
that, impassive as she looked, she heard every cough, every rustle of paper; each voice that
addressed her seemed to cut her ears like a knife; and the chair that was given to her after
the administration of the oath was indeed much needed.

She was examined upon her arrangement that the prisoner should provide for the asylum at St.
Herbert's, and on her monthly payment to him of the sums entered in the account-book. In some
cases she knew he had shown her the bills unreceipted; in others, he had simply made the charge
in the book, and she had given to him the amount that he estimated as requisite for the materials
for wood-engraving. So far she felt satisfied that she was making herself distinctly understood,
but the prisoner, acting as his own counsel, now turned to her and asked the question she had
expected and was prepared for, whether she could refer to any written agreement.

"No; it was a viva voce agreement."

Could she mention what passed at the time of making the arrangement that she had stated as
existing between himself and her?

"I described my plans, and you consented."

An answer at which some of the audience could have smiled, so well did it accord with her habits.
The prisoner again insisted on her defining the mode of his becoming bound to the agreement.
Rachel took time for consideration, and Alison Williams, sitting between Lady Temple and Colonel
Keith, felt dizzy with anxiety for the answer. It came at last.

"I do not remember the exact words; but you acquiesced in the appearance of your name as secretary
and treasurer."

The prospectus was here brought forward, and Mauleverer asked her to define the duties he had
been supposed to undertake in the character in which he had there figured. It of course came
out that she had been her own treasurer, only entrusting the nominal one with the amount required
for current expenses, and again, in reply to his deferential questions, she was obliged to
acknowledge that he had never in so many words declared the sums entered in the book to have
been actually paid, and not merely estimates for monthly expenditure to be paid to the tradesmen
at the usual seasons.

"I understood that they were paid," said Rachel, with some resentment.

"Will you oblige me by mentioning on what that understanding was founded?" said the prisoner,
blandly.

There was a pause. Rachel knew she must say something; but memory utterly failed to recall
any definite assurance that these debts had been discharged. Time passed, all eyes were upon
her, there was a dire necessity of reply, and though perfectly conscious of the weakness and
folly of her utterance, she could only falter forth, "I thought so." The being the Clever Woman
of the family, only rendered her the more sensible both of the utter futility of her answer,
and of the effect it must be producing.

Alison hung her head, and frowned in absolute shame and despair, already perceiving how matters
must go, and feeling as if the hope of her brother's vindication were slipping away--reft from
her by Rachel's folly. Colin gave an indignant sigh, and whispering to her, "Come out when
Lady Temple does, I will meet you," he made his way out of court.

There had been a moment's pause after Rachel's "I thought so," and then the chairman spoke
to the counsel for the prosecution. "Mr. Murray, can you carry the case any further by other
witnesses? At present I see no case to go to the jury. You will see that the witness not only
does not set up any case of embezzlement, but rather loads to an inference in the contrary
direction."

"No, sir," was the answer; "I am afraid that I can add nothing to the case already presented
to you."

Upon this, the chairman said,

"Gentlemen of the Jury,--The case for the prosecution does not sustain the indictment or require
me to call on the prisoner for his defence, and it is your duty to find him not guilty. You
will observe that we are not trying a civil action, in respect of the large sum which he has
received from the young lady, and for which he is still accountable to her; nor by acquitting
him are you pronouncing that he has not shown himself a man of very questionable honesty, but
only that the evidence will not bring him within the grasp of the criminal law, as guilty of
embezzlement under the statute, and this because of the looseness of the arrange ments, that
had been implied instead of expressed. It is exceedingly to be regretted that with the best
intentions and kindest purposes, want of caution and experience on her part should have enabled
the prisoner thus to secure himself from the possibility of a conviction; but there can be
no doubt that the evidence before us is such as to leave no alternative but a verdict of not
guilty."

The very tenderness and consideration of the grey-haired Sir Edward Morden's tone were more
crushing to Rachel than severe animadversions on her folly would have been from a stranger.
Here was she, the Clever Woman of the family, shown in open court to have been so egregious
a dupe that the deceiver could not even be punished, but must go scot-free, leaving all her
wrongs unredressed! To her excited, morbid apprehension, magnified by past self-sufficiency,
it was as though all eyes were looking in triumph at that object of general scorn and aversion,
a woman who had stepped out of her place. She turned with a longing to rush into darkness and
retirement when she was called to return to her mother, and even had she still been present,
little would she have recked that when the jury had, without many moments' delay, returned
a verdict of "Not Guilty," the prisoner received a strong, stem reprimand from Sir Edward,
to whom he replied with a bow that had in it more of triumph than of acceptance.

Burning tears of disappointment were upon Alison's cheek, the old hopeless blank was returning,
and her brother might come back in vain, to find his enemy beyond his reach. Here was an end
alike of his restoration and of Ermine's happiness!

"Oh!" whispered Lady Temple, "is it not horrid? Is nothing to be done to that dreadful man?
I always thought people came here to do justice. I shall never like Sir Edward Morden again!
But, oh! what can that be? Where is the Colonel?"

It was a loud, frightful roar and yell, a sound of concentrated fury that, once heard, could
never be forgotten. It was from the crowd outside, many of them from Avonmouth, and all frantic
with indignation at the cruelty that had been perpetrated upon the helpless children. Their
groans and execrations were pursuing the prison van, from which Maria Hatherton was at that
moment making her exit, and so fearful was the outcry that penetrated the court, that Fanny
trembled with recollections of Indian horrors, looked wistfully for her protector the Colonel,
and murmured fears that her aunt must have been very much terrified.

At that moment, however, a summons came for Lady Temple, as this was the case in which she
was to bear witness. Alison followed, and was no sooner past the spectators, who gladly made
way, than she found her arm drawn into Colonel Keith's. "Is he come?" she asked. "No," was
rather signed than spoken. "Oh, Colin!" she sighed, but still there was no reply, only she
was dragged on, downstairs and along dark passages, into a room furnished with a table, chairs,
pens, ink, and paper, and lighted with gas, which revealed to her not only Mr. Grey, but one
who, though eight years had made him stouter, redder, and rougher, had one of the moat familiar
faces of her youthful days. Her senses almost reeled with her as he held out his hand, saying
heartily, "Well, Ailie, how are you? and how is Ermine? Where can this brother of yours be?"

"Harry! Mr. Beauchamp! You here!" she exclaimed, in the extremity of amazement.

"Here is Colin seeming to think that something may be done towards nailing this scoundrel for
the present, so I am come at his call. We shall have the fellow in a moment." And then, by
way of getting rid of embarrassment, he began talking to Mr. Grey about the County Hall, and
the room, which Mr. Grey explained to be that of the clerk of the peace, lent for this occasion
while the usual justice room was occupied, Alison heard all as in a dream, and presently Mauleverer
entered, as usual spruce, artist-like, and self-possessed, and was accosted by Harry Beauchamp,
"Good evening, Mr. Maddox, I am sorry to trouble you."

"I hope there is no misunderstanding, sir," was the reply. "I have not the pleasure of knowing
for whom you take me."

Without regarding this reply, however, Mr. Beauchamp requested Mr. Grey to take his deposition,
stating his own belief in the identity of the person before him with Richard Maddox, whom he
charged with having delivered to him a letter falsely purporting to come from Edward Williams,
demanding three hundred pounds, which upon this he had delivered to the accused, to be forwarded
to the said Mr. Williams.

Alison's heart beat violently at the ordeal before her of speaking to the genuineness of the
letter. She had seen and suspected that to her brother-in-law, but she could not guess whether
the flaws in that to Mr. Beauchamp would be equally palpable, and doubt and anxiety made her
scarcely able to look at it steadily. To her great relief, however, she was able to detect
sufficient variations to justify her assertion that it was not authentic, and she was able
to confirm her statement by comparison of the writing with that of a short, indignant denial
of all knowledge of the transaction, which Harry Beauchamp had happily preserved, though little
regarding it at the time. She also showed the wrong direction, with the name of the place misspelt,
according to her own copy of her sister-in-law's address, at the request of Maddox himself,
and pointed out that a letter to Ermine from her brother bore the right form. The seal upon
that to Mr. Beauchamp she likewise asserted to be the impression of one which her brother had
lost more than a year before the date of the letter.

"Indeed, sir," said the accused, fuming to Mr. Grey, "this is an exceedingly hard case. Here
am I, newly acquitted, after nearly six weeks' imprisonment, on so frivolous a charge that
it has been dismissed without my even having occasion to defend myself, or to call my own most
respectable witnesses as to character, when another charge is brought forward against me in
a name that there has been an unaccountable desire to impose on me. Even if I were the person
that this gentleman supposes, there is nothing proved. He may very possibly have received a
forged letter, but I perceive nothing to fix the charge upon the party he calls Maddox. Let
me call in my own witnesses, who had volunteered to come down from Bristol, and you will be
convinced how completely mistaken the gentleman is."

To this Mr. Grey replied that the case against him was not yet closed, and cautioning him to
keep his own witnesses back; but he was urgent to be allowed to call them at once, as it was
already late, and they were to go by the six o'clock train. Mr. Grey consented, and a messenger
was sent in search of them. Mr. Beauchamp looked disturbed. "What say you to this, Colin?"
he asked, uneasily. "That man's audacity is enough to stagger one, and I only saw him three
times at the utmost."

"Never fear," said Colin, "delay is all in our favour." At the same time Colin left them, and
with him went some hope and confidence, leaving all to feel awkward and distressed during the
delay that ensued, the accused expatiating all the time on the unreasonableness of bringing
up an offence committed so many years ago, in the absence of the only witness who could prove
the whole story, insisting, moreover, on his entire ignorance of the names of either Maddox
or Williams.

The sight of his witnesses was almost welcome. They were a dissenting minister, and a neat,
portly, respectable widow, the owner of a fancy shop, and both knew Mr. Mauleverer as a popular
lecturer upon philanthropical subjects, who came periodically to Bristol, and made himself
very acceptable. Their faith in him was genuine, and he had even interested them in the F.
U. E. E. and the ladies that patronized it. The widow was tearfully indignant about the persecution
that had been got up against him, and evidently intended to return with him in triumph, and
endow him with the fancy shop if he would condescend so far. The minister too, spoke highly
of his gifts and graces, but neither of them could carry back their testimony to his character
for more than three years.

Mr. Grey looked at his watch, Harry Beauchamp was restless, and Alison felt almost faint with
suspense; but at last the tramp of feet was heard in the passage. Colonel Keith came first,
and leaning over Alison's chair, said, "Lady Temple will wait for me at the inn. It will soon
be all right."

At that moment a tall figure in mourning entered, attended by a policeman. For the first time,
Mauleverer's coolness gave way, though not his readiness, and, turning to Mr. Grey, he exclaimed,
"Sir, you do not intend to be misled by the malignity of a person of this description."

"Worse than a murderess!" gasped the scandalized widow Dench. "Well, I never!"

Mr. Grey was obliged to be peremptory, in order to obtain silence, and enforce that, let the
new witness be what she might, her evidence must be heard.

She had come in with the habitual village curtsey to Mr. Beauchamp, and putting back her veil,
disclosed to Alison the piteous sight of the well-remembered features, once so bright with
intelligence and innocence, and now sunk and haggard with the worst sorrows of womanhood. Her
large glittering eyes did not seem to recognise Alison, but they glared upon Mauleverer with
a strange terrible fixedness, as if unable to see any one else. To Alison the sight was inexpressibly
painful, and she shrank back, as it were, in dread of meeting the eyes once so responsive to
her own.

Mr. Grey asked the woman the name of the person before her, and looking at him with the same
fearful steadiness, she pronounced it to be Richard Maddox, though he had of late called himself
Mauleverer.

The man quailed for a moment, then collecting himself, said, "I now understand the incredible
ingratitude and malignity that have pointed out against me these hitherto unaccountable slanders.
It is a punishment for insufficient inquiry into character. But you, sir, in common justice,
will protect me from the aspersions of one who wishes to drag me down in her justly merited fall."

"Sentenced for three years! To take her examination!" muttered Mrs. Dench, and with some difficulty
these exclamations were silenced, and Maria Hatherton called on for her evidence.

Concise, but terrible in its clear brevity, was the story of the agent tampering with her,
the nursemaid, until she had given him access to the private rooms, where he had turned over
the papers. On the following day, Mr. Williams had been inquiring for his seal-ring, but she
herself had not seen it again till some months after, when she had left her place, and was
living in lodgings provided for her by Maddox, when she had found the ring in the drawer of
his desk; her suspicion had then been first excited by his displeasure at her proposing to
him to return it, thinking it merely there by accident, and she had afterwards observed him
endeavouring to copy fragments of Mr. Williams's writing. These he had crushed up and thrown
aside, but she had preserved them, owning that she did not know what might come of them, and
the family had been very kind to her.

The seal and the scraps of paper were here produced by the policeman who had them in charge.
The seal perfectly coincided with that which had closed the letter to Harry Beauchamp, and
was, moreover, identified by both Alison and Colonel Keith. It was noticeable, too, that one
of these fragments was the beginning of a note to Mr. Beauchamp, as "Dear H." and this, though
not Edward's most usual style of addressing his friend, was repeated in the demand for the £300.

"Sir," said the accused, "of course I have no intention of intimating that a gentleman like
the Honourable Colonel Keith has been in any collusion with this unhappy woman, but it must
be obvious to you that his wish to exonerate his friend has induced him to give too easy credence
to this person's malignant attempts to fasten upon one whom she might have had reason to regard
as a benefactor the odium of the transactions that she acknowledges to have taken place between
herself and this Maddox, thereto incited, no doubt, by some resemblance which must be strong,
since it has likewise deceived Mr. Beauchamp."

Mr. Grey looked perplexed and vexed, and asked Mr. Beauchamp if he could suggest any other
person able to identify Maddox. He frowned, said there must have been workmen at the factory,
but knew not where they were, looked at Colin Keith, asked Alison if she or her sister had
ever seen Maddox, then declared he could lay his hands on no one but Dr. Long at Belfast.

Mauleverer vehemently exclaimed against the injustice of detaining him till a witness could
be summoned from that distance. Mr. Grey evidently had his doubts, and began to think of calling
in some fresh opinion whether he had sufficient grounds for committal, and Alison's hopes were
only unstained by Colin's undaunted looks, when there came a knock at the door, and, as much
to the surprise of Alison as of every one else, there entered an elderly maid-servant, leading
a little girl by the hand, and Colonel Keith going to meet the latter, said, "Do not be frightened,
my dear, you have only to answer a few questions as plainly and clearly as you can."

Awed, silent, and dazzled by the sudden gas-light, she clung to his hand, but evidently distinguished
no one else; and he placed her close to the magistrate saying, "This is Mr. Grey, Rose, tell
him your name."

And Mr. Grey taking her hand and repeating the question, the clear little silvery voice answered,

"I am Rose Ermine Williams."

"And how old are you, my dear?"

"I was eight on the last of June."

"She knows the nature of an oath?" asked Mr. Grey of the Colonel.

"Certainly, you can soon satisfy yourself of that."

"My dear," then said Mr. Grey, taking her by the hand again, and looking into the brown intelligent
eyes, "I am sure you have been well taught. Can you tell me what is meant by taking an oath
before a magistrate?"

"Yes," said Rose, colour flushing into her face, "it is calling upon Almighty God to hear one
speak the truth." She spoke so low that she could hardly be heard, and she looked full of startled
fear and distress, turning her face up to Colonel Keith with a terrified exclamation,

"Oh please, why am I here, what am I to say?"

He was sorry for her; but her manifest want of preparation was all in favour of the cause,
and he soothed her by saying, "Only answer just what you are asked as clearly as you can, and
Mr. Grey will soon let you go. He knows you would try any way to speak the truth, but as he
is going to examine you as a magistrate, he must ask you to take the oath first."

Rose repeated the oath in her innocent tones, and perhaps their solemnity or the fatherly gentleness
of Mr. Grey reassured her, for her voice trembled much less when she answered his next inquiry,
who her parents were.

"My mother is dead," she said; "my father is Mr Williams, he is away at Ekaterinburg."

"Do you remember any time before he was at Ekaterinburg?"

"Oh yes; when we lived at Kensington, and he had the patent glass works."

"Now, turn round and say if there is any one here whom you know?"

Rose, who had hitherto stood facing Mr. Grey, with her back to the rest of the room, obeyed,
and at once exclaimed, "Aunt Alison," then suddenly recoiled, and grasped at the Colonel.

"What is it, my dear?"

"It is--it is Mr. Maddox," and with another gasp of fright, "and Maria! Oh, let me go."

But Mr. Grey put his arm round her, and assured her that no one could harm her, Colonel Keith
let his fingers be very hard pinched, and her aunt came nearer, all telling her that she had
only to make her answers distinctly; and though still shrinking, she could reply to Mr. Grey's
question whom she meant by Mr. Maddox.

"The agent for the glass--my father's agent."

"And who is Maria?"

"She was my nurse."

"When did you last see the person you call Mr. Maddox?"

"Last time, I was sure of it, was when I was walking on the esplanade at Avoncester with Colonel
Keith," said Rose, very anxious to turn aside and render her words inaudible.

"I suppose you can hardly tell when that was?"

"Yes, it was the day before you went away to Lord Keith's wedding," said Rose, looking to the
Colonel.

"Had you seen him before?"

"Twice when I was out by myself, but it frightened me so that I never looked again."

"Can you give me any guide to the time?"

She was clear that it had been after Colonel Keith's first stay at Avonmouth, but that was
all, and being asked if she had ever mentioned these meetings, "Only when Colonel Keith saw
how frightened I was, and asked me."

"Why were you frightened?" asked Mr. Grey, on a hint from the Colonel.

"Because I could not quite leave off believing the dreadful things Mr. Maddox and Maria said
they would do to me if I told."

"Told what?"

"About Mr. Maddox coming and walking with Maria when she was out with me," gasped Rose, trying
to avert her head, and not comforted by hearing Mr. Grey repeat her words to those tormentors
of her infancy.

A little encouragement, however, brought out the story of the phosphoric letters, the lions,
and the vision of Maddox growling in the dressing-room. The date of the apparition could hardly
be hoped for, but fortunately Rose remembered that it was two days before her mamma's birthday,
because she had felt it so bard to be eaten up before the fete, and this date tallied with
that given by Maria of her admitting her treacherous admirer into the private rooms.

"The young lady may be precocious, no doubt, sir," here said the accused, "but I hardly see
why she has been brought here. You can attach no weight to the confused recollections of so
young a child, of matters that took place so long ago."

"The question will be what weight the jury will attach to them at the assizes," said Mr. Grey.

"You will permit me to make one inquiry of the young lady, sir. Who told her whom she might
expect to see here?"

Mr. Grey repeated the query, and Rose answered, "Nobody; I knew my aunt and the Colonel and
Lady Temple were gone in to Avoncester, and Aunt Ermine got a note from the Colonel to say
that I was to come in to him with Tibbie in a fly."

"Did you know what you were wanted for?"

"No, I could not think. I only knew they came to get the woman punished for being so cruel
to the poor little girls."

"Do you know who that person was?"

"Mrs. Rawlins," was the ready answer.

"I think," said Mr. Grey to the accused, "that you must perceive that, with such coincidence
of testimony as I have here, I have no alternative but to commit you for the summer assizes."

Mauleverer murmured something about an action for false imprisonment, but he did not make it
clear, and he was evidently greatly crestfallen. He had no doubt hoped to brazen out his assumed
character sufficiently to disconcert Mr. Beauchamp's faith in his own memory, and though he
had carried on the same game after being confronted with Maria, it was already becoming desperate.
He had not reckoned upon her deserting his cause even for her own sake, and the last chance
of employing her antecedents to discredit her testimony, had been overthrown by Rose's innocent
witness to their mutual relations, a remembrance which had been burnt in on her childish memory
by the very means taken to secure her silence. When the depositions were read over, their remarkable
and independent accordance was most striking; Mrs. Dench had already been led away by the minister,
in time to catch her train, just when her sobs of indignation at the deception were growing
too demonstrative, and the policeman resumed the charge of Maria Hatherton.

Little Rose looked up to her, saying, "Please, Aunt Ailie, may I speak to her?"

Alison had been sitting restless and perplexed between impulses of pity and repulsion, and
doubts about the etiquette of the justice room; but her heart yearned over the girl she had
cherished, and she signed permission to Rose, whose timidity had given way amid excitement
and encouragement.

"Please, Maria," she said, "don't be angry with me for telling; I never did till Colonel Keith
asked me, and I could not help it. Will you kiss me and forgive me as you used?"

The hard fierce eyes, that had not wept over the child's coffin, filled with tears.

"Oh, Miss Rose, Miss Rose, do not come near me. Oh, if I had minded you--and your aunts--"
And the pent-up misery of the life that had fallen lower and lower since the first step in
evil, found its course in a convulsive sob and shriek, so grievous that Alison was thankful
for Colin's promptitude in laying hold of Rose, and leading her out of the room before him.
Alison felt obliged to follow, yet could not bear to leave Maria to policemen and prison warders.

"Maria, poor Maria, I am so sorry for you, I will try to come and see you--"

But her hand was seized with an imperative, "Ailie, you must come, they are all waiting for you."

How little had she thought her arm would ever be drawn into that arm, so unheeded by both.

"So that is Edward's little girl! Why, she is the sweetest little clear-headed thing I have
seen a long time. She was the saving of us."

"It was well thought of by Colin."

"Colin is a lawyer spoilt--that's a fact. A first-rate get-up of a case!"

"And you think it safe now?"

"Nothing safer, so Edward turns up. How he can keep away from such a child as that, I can't
imagine. Where is she? Oh, here--" as they came into the porch in fuller light, where the Colonel
and Rose waited for them. "Ha, my little Ailie, I must make better friends with you."

"My name is Rose, not Ailie," replied the little girl.

"Oh, aye! Well, it ought to have been, what d'ye call her--that was a Daniel come to judgment?"

"Portia," returned Rose; "but I don't think that is pretty at all."

"And where is Lady Temple?" anxiously asked Alison. "She must be grieved to be detained so long."

"Oh! Lady Temple is well provided for," said the Colonel, "all the magistrates and half the
bar are at her feet. They say the grace and simplicity of her manner of giving her evidence
were the greatest contrast to poor Rachel's."

"But where is she?" still persisted Alison.

"At the hotel; Maria's was the last case of the day, and she went away directly after it, with
such a choice of escorts that I only just spoke to her."

And at the hotel they found the waggonette at the gateway, and Lady Temple in the parlour with
Sir Edward Morden, who, late as it was, would not leave her till he had seen her with the rest
of the party. She sprang up to meet them, and was much relieved to hear that Mauleverer was
again secured. "Otherwise," she said, "it would have been all my fault for having acted without
asking advice. I hope I shall never do so again."

She insisted that all should go home together in the waggonette, and Rose found herself upon
Mr. Beauchamp's knee, serving as usual as a safety valve for the feelings of her aunt's admirers.
There was no inconstancy on her part, she would much have preferred falling to the lot of her
own Colonel, but the open carriage drive was rather a risk for him in the night air, and though
he had undertaken it in the excitement, he soon found it requisite to muffle himself up, and
speak as little as possible. Harry Beauchamp talked enough for both. He was in high spirits,
partly, as Colin suspected, with the escape from a dull formal home, and partly with the undoing
of a wrong that had rankled in his conscience more than he had allowed to himself. Lady Temple,
her heart light at the convalescence of her sons, was pleased with everything, liked him extremely,
and answered gaily; and Alison enjoyed the resumption of pleasant habits of days gone by. Yet,
delightful as it all was, there was a sense of disenchantment: she was marvelling all the time
how she could have suffered so much on Harry Beauchamp's account. The rejection of him had
weighed like a stone upon her heart, but now it seemed like freedom to have escaped his companionship
for a lifetime.

Presently a horse's feet were heard on the road before them; there was a meeting and a halt,
and Alick Keith's voice called out--"How has it gone?"

"Why, were you not in court?"

"What! I go to hear my friends baited!"

"Where were you then?"

"At Avonmouth."

"Oh, then you have seen the boys," cried Lady Temple. "How is Conrade?"

"Quite himself. Up to a prodigious amount of indoor croquet. But how has it gone?"

"Such a shame!" returned Lady Temple. "They acquitted the dreadful man, and the poor woman,
whom he drove to it, has a year's imprisonment and hard labour!"

"Acquitted! What, is he off?"

"Oh, no, no! he is safe, and waiting for the Assizes, all owing to the Colonel and little Rose."

"He is committed for the former offence," said Colonel Keith; "the important one."

"That's right! Good night! And how," he added, reining back his horse, "did your cousin get
through it?"

"Oh, they were so hard on her!" cried Lady Temple. "I could hardly bring myself to speak to
Sir Edward after it! It was as if he thought it all her fault!"

"Her evidence broke down completely," said Colonel Keith. "Sir Edward spared her as much as
he could; but the absurdity of her whole conduct was palpable. I hope she has had a lesson."

Alick's impatient horse flew on with him, and Colin muttered to Alison under his mufflers,--"I
never could make out whether that is the coolest or the most sensitive fellow living!"

CHAPTER XXII.
                The Beleaguered City, LONGFELLOW.

A dinner party at the Deanery in the sessions week was an institution, but Rachel, lying on
the sofa in a cool room, had thought herself exempt from it, and was conscious for the time
of but one wish, namely, to be let alone, and to be able to shut her eyes, without finding
the lids, as it were, lined with tiers of gazing faces, and curious looks turned on her, and
her ears from the echo of the roar of fury that had dreadfully terrified both her and her mother,
and she felt herself to have merited! The crush of public censure was not at the moment so
overwhelming as the strange morbid effect of having been the focus of those many, many glances,
and if she reflected at all, it was with a weary speculating wonder whether one pair of dark
grey eyes had been among those levelled at her. She thought that if they had, she could not
have missed either their ironical sting, or perchance some kindly gleam of sympathy, such as
had sometimes surprised her from under the flaxen lashes.

There she had lain, unmolested and conscious of a certain relief in the exceeding calm; the
grey pinnacle of the cathedral, and a few branches of an elm-tree alone meeting her eye through
the open window, and the sole sound the cawing of the rooks, whose sailing flight amused and
attracted her glance from time to time with dreamy interest. Grace had gone into court to hear
Maria Hatherton's trial, and all was still.

The first break was when her mother and Miss Wellwood came in, after having wandered gently
together round the warm, walled Deanery garden, comparing notes about their myrtles and geraniums.
Then it was that amid all their tender inquiries after her headache, and their administration
of afternoon tea, it first broke upon Rachel that they expected her to go down to dinner.

"Pray excuse me," she said imploringly, looking at her mother for support, "indeed, I don't
know that I could sit out a dinner! A number of people together make me so dizzy and confused."

"Poor child!" said Miss Wellwood, kindly, but looking to Mrs. Curtis in her turn. "Perhaps,
as she has been so ill, the evening might be enough."

"Oh," exclaimed Rachel, "I hope to be in bed before you have finished dinner. Indeed I am not
good company for any one."

"Don't say that, my dear," and Miss Wellwood looked puzzled.

"Indeed, my dear," said Mrs. Curtis, evidently distressed, "I think the exertion would be good
for you, if you could only think so."

"Yes, indeed," said Miss Wellwood, catching at the notion; "it is your mind that needs the
distraction, my dear."

"I am distracted enough already," poor Rachel said, putting her hand up. "Indeed, I do not
want to be disobliging," she said, interpreting her mother's anxious gestures to mean that
she was wanting in civility; "it is very kind in you, Miss Wellwood, but this has been a very
trying day, and I am sure I can give no pleasure to anybody, so if I might only be let off."

"It is not so much--" began Miss Wellwood, getting into a puzzle, and starting afresh. "Indeed,
my dear, my brother and I could not bear that you should do anything you did not like, only
you see it would never do for you to seem to want to shut yourself up."

"I should think all the world must feel as if I ought to be shut up for life," said Rachel,
dejectedly.

"Ah! but that is the very thing. If you do not show yourself it will make such a talk."

Rachel had nearly said, "Let them talk;" but though she felt tormented to death, habitual respect
to these two gentle, nervous, elderly women made her try to be courteous, and she said, "Indeed,
I cannot much care, provided I don't hear them."

"Ah! but you don't know, my dear," said Mrs. Curtis, seeing her friend looked dismayed at this
indifference. "Indeed, dear Miss Wellwood, she does not know; we thought it would be so awkward
for her in court."

"Know what?" exclaimed Rachel, sitting upright, and putting down her feet. "What have you been
keeping from me?"

"Only--only, my dear, people will say such things, and nobody could think it that knew you."

"What?" demanded Rachel.

"Yes," said Mrs. Curtis, perhaps, since her daughter was to have the shock, rather glad to
have a witness to the surprise it caused her: "you know people will gossip, and some one has
put it about that--that this horrid man was--"

Mrs. Curtis paused, Miss Wellwood was as pink as her cap strings. Rachel grasped the meaning
at last. "Oh!" she said, with less reticence than her elders, "there must needs be a spice
of flirtation to give piquancy to the mess of gossip! I don't wonder, there are plenty of people
who judge others by themselves, and think that motive must underlie everything! I wonder who
imagines that I am fallen so low?"

"There, I knew she would take it in that way," said Mrs. Curtis. "And so you understand us,
my dear, we could not bear to ask you to do anything so distressing except for your own sake."

"I am far past caring for my own sake," said Rachel, "but for yours and Grace's, mother, I
will give as much ocular demonstration as I can, that I am not pining for this hero with a
Norman name. I own I should have thought none of the Dean's friends would have needed to be
convinced."

"Oh, no! no! but--" Miss Wellwood made a great confusion of noes, buts, and my dears, and Mrs.
Curtis came to the rescue. "After all, my love, one can't so much wonder! You have always been
very peculiar, you know, and so clever, and you took up this so eagerly. And then the Greys
saw you so unwilling to prosecute. And--and I have always allowed you too much liberty--ever
since your poor dear papa was taken--and now it has come upon you, my poor child! Oh, I hope
dear Fanny will take warning by me," and off went poor Mrs. Curtis into a fit of sobs.

"Mother--mother! this is worse than anything," exclaimed Rachel in an agony, springing to her
feet, and flying after sal volatile, but feeling frightfully helpless without Grace, the manager
of all Mrs. Curtis's ailments and troubles. Grace would have let her quietly cry it out. Rachel's
remedies and incoherent protestations of all being her own fault only made things worse, and
perhaps those ten minutes were the most overwhelming of all the griefs that Rachel had brought
on herself. However, what with Miss Wellwood's soothing, and her own sense of the becoming,
Mrs. Curtis struggled herself into composure again by the time the maid came to dress them
for dinner; Rachel all the while longing for Grace's return, not so much for the sake of hearing
the verdict, as of knowing whether the mother ought to be allowed to go down to dinner, so
shaken did she look; for indeed, besides her distress for her daughter, no small ingredient
in her agitation was this recurrence to a stated custom of her husband's magisterial days.

Persuasion was unavailing. At any cost the Curtis family must present an unassailable front
to the public eye, and if Mrs. Curtis had forced forward her much tried and suffering daughter,
far more would she persist in devoting herself to gaiety and indifference, but her nervousness
was exceeding, and betrayed itself in a continual wearying for Grace, without whom neither
her own dress nor Rachel's could be arranged to her satisfaction, and she was absolutely incapable
of not worrying Rachel about every fold, every plait, every bow, in a manner that from any
one else would have been unbearable; but those tears had frightened Rachel into a penitent
submission that endured with an absolute semblance of cheerfulness each of these torments.
The languor and exhaustion had been driven away, and feverish excitement had set in, not so
much from the spirit of defiance that the two elder ladies had expected to excite, as from
the having been goaded into a reckless determination to sustain her part. No matter for the rest.

It often happened in these parties that the ladies would come in from the country in reasonable
time, while their lords would be detained much later in court, so when the cathedral clock
had given notice of the half-hour, Mrs. Curtis began to pick up fan and handkerchief, and prepare
to descend. Rachel suggested there would be no occasion so to do till Grace's return, since
it was plain that no one could yet be released.

"Yes, my dear, but perhaps--don't you think it might be remarked as if you chose to keep out
of sight?"

"Oh, very well."

Rachel followed her mother down, sustained by one hope, that Captain Keith would be there.
No; the Deanery did not greatly patronize the barracks; there was not much chance of any gentleman
under forty, except, perhaps, in the evening. And at present the dean himself and one canon
were the entire gentleman element among some dozen ladies. Everybody knew that the cause of
delay was the trial of the cruel matron, and added to the account of Rachel's iniquities their
famished and weary state of expectation, the good Dean gyrating among the groups, trying to
make conversation, which every one felt too fretful and too hungry to sustain with spirit.
Rachel sat it out, trying to talk whenever she saw her mother's anxious eyes upon her, but
failing in finding anything to say, and much doubting whether her neighbours liked talking to her.

At last gentlemen began to appear in twos and threes, and each made some confidence to the
womankind that first absorbed him, but no one came in Rachel's way, and the girl beside her
became too unfeignedly curious to support even the semblance of conversation, but listened
for scraps of intelligence. Something was flying about respecting "a gentleman who came down
by the train," and something about "Lady Temple" and "admirable," and the young lady seized
the first opportunity of deserting Rachel, and plunging into the melee. Rachel sat on, sick
with suspense, feeling utterly unable to quit her seat. Still they waited, the whole of the
party were not arrived, and here was the curfew ringing, and that at the Deanery, which always
felt injured if it were seven o'clock before people were in the dining-room! Grace must be
upstairs dressing, but to reach her was impossible!

At last Mr. Grey was announced, and he had mercy upon Rachel; he came up to her as soon as
he could without making her remarkable, and told her the cause of his delay had been the necessity
of committing Mauleverer upon an accusation by a relation of Colonel Keith, of very extensive
frauds upon Miss Williams's brother. Rachel's illness and the caution of the Williamses had
prevented her from being fully aware of the complication of their affairs with her own, and
she became paler and paler, as she listened to the partial explanation, though she was hardly
able as yet to understand it.

"The woman?" she asked.

"Sentenced to a year's imprisonment with hard labour, and let me tell you, Rachel, you had
a most narrow escape there! If that army doctor had not come in time to see the child alive,
they could not have chosen but have an inquest, and no mortal can tell what might have been
the decision about your homoeopathy. You might have been looking forward to a worse business
than this at the next assizes."

Mr. Grey had done his work at last! The long waiting, the weary constraint, and at last the
recurrence of Lovedy's sufferings and her own share in them, entirely overcame her. Mists danced
before her eyes, and the very sensation that had been so studiously avoided was produced by
her fainting helplessly away in her chair, while Mr. Grey was talking to her.

To be sure it brought deliverance from the multitude, and she awoke in the quiet of her room,
upon her bed, in the midst of the despairing compunction of the mother, and the tender cares
of Grace, but she was too utterly overdone for even this to be much relief to her; and downstairs
poor Miss Wellwood's one desire was to hinder the spread of the report that her swoon had been
caused by the tidings of Mauleverer's apprehension. It seemed as if nothing else had been wanting
to make the humiliation and exposure complete. Rachel had despised fainting ladies, and had
really hitherto been so superabundant in strength that she had no experience of the symptoms,
or she might have escaped in time. But there she lay, publicly censured before the dignitaries
of her county for moral folly, and entirely conquered before the rest of the world by the physical
weakness she had most contemned.

Then the mother was so terrified and distressed that all sorts of comforting reassurances were
required, and the chief object soon became to persuade her to go downstairs and leave Rachel
to her bed. And at last the thought of civility and of the many Mrs. Grundys prevailed, and
sent her downstairs, but there was little more comfort for Rachel even in being left to herself--that
for which she had a few minutes before most ardently longed.

That night was perhaps the most painful one of her whole life. The earnest desire to keep her
mother from uneasiness, and the longing to be unmolested, made her play her part well when
the mother and Grace came up to see her before going to bed, and they thought she would sleep
off her over-fatigue and excitement, and yielded to her desire that they should bid her good
night, and leave her to rest.

But what sort of rest was it? Sometimes even her own personal identity was gone, and she would
live over again in the poor children, the hunger and the blows, or she would become Mrs. Rawlins,
and hear herself sentenced for the savage cruelty, or she would actually stand in court under
sentence for manslaughter. Her pulses throbbed up to fever pitch, head and cheeks burnt, the
very power to lie still was gone, and whether she commanded her thoughts or lapsed into the
land of dreams, they worked her equal woe.

Now it was the world of gazing faces, feverishly magnified, multiplied, and pressing closer
and closer on her, till she could have screamed to dispel them; now it was her mother weeping
over the reports to which she had given occasion, and accusing herself of her daughter's errors;
and now it was Lovedy Kelland's mortal agony, now the mob, thirsting for vengeance, were shouting
for justice on her, as the child's murderer, and she was shrieking to Alick Keith to leave
her to her fate, and only save her mother.

It would hardly be too much to say that the positive wretchedness of actually witnessing the
child's death was doubled in these its imaginary repetitions on that still more suffering night
of waking dreams, when every solemn note of the cathedral clock, every resolute proclamation
from its fellow in the town hall, every sharp reply from the domestic timepiece in the Deanery
fell on her ears, generally recalling her at least to full consciousness of her identity and
whereabouts, and dispelling the delusion.

But, then, what comfort was there? Veritably she had caused suffering and death; she had led
to the peril of Fanny's children; she had covered her mother with shame and grief! Nay, in
her exaggerated tone of feeling, she imagined that distress and poverty might have been entailed
on that beloved mother. Those title deeds--no intelligence. Captain Keith had taken no notice.
Perhaps he heard and believed those degrading reports! He had soul enough to pity and sympathize
with the failure of extended views of beneficence; he despised the hypocrisy that had made
charity a cloak for a credulous debasing attachment, and to such an object! He might well avoid
her! His sister had always bantered her on what had seemed too absurd to be rebutted, and,
at any rate, this fainting fit would clench his belief. No doubt he believed it. And if he
did, why should not every one else whose opinion she cared for: Ermine, her Colonel, even gentle
Fanny--no, she would never believe any harm, she had suffered too much in her cause.

Oh, for simple genuine charity like Fanny's, with eyes clear with innocence and humility! And
now what was before her? should she ever be allowed to hide her head, or should she be forced
again to brave that many-eyed world? Perhaps the title-deed business would prove utter ruin.
It would have been acceptable to herself, but her mother and sister!

Chastisement! Yes, it was just chastisement for headstrong folly and conceit. She had heard
of bending to the rod and finding it a cross, but here came the dreadful confusion of unreality,
and of the broken habit of religious meditation except as matter of debate. She did not know
till her time of need how deeply sneers had eaten into her heart. Every effort at prayer or
at calm recall of old thoughts still ended in that desolate verse. The first relief to these
miserable dreams was the cool clear morning light, and by-and-by the early cathedral bells,
then Grace's kind greeting made her quite herself; no longer feverish, but full of lassitude
and depression. She would not listen to Grace's entreaties that she would remain in bed. No
place was so hateful to her, she said, and she came down apparently not more unwell than had
been the case for many days past, so that after breakfast her mother saw no reason against
leaving her on the sofa, while going out to perform some commissions in the town, attended,
of course, by Grace. Miss Wellwood promised that she should not be disturbed, and she found
that she must have been asleep, for she was taken by surprise by the opening of the door, and
the apologetic face of the butler, who told her that a gentleman had asked if she would see
him, and presented the card of "Captain Alexander Keith."

Eagerly she desired that he should be admitted, tremulously she awaited his sentence upon her
mother's peace, and, as she thought of all he must have heard, all he must believe, she felt
as if she must flee; or, if that were impossible, cower in shrinking dread of the glance of
his satirical eye!

Here he was, and she could not look or speak, nor did he; she only felt that his clasp of greeting
was kind, was anxious, and he put forward the easy-chair, into which she sank, unable to stand.
He said, "I saw your mother and sister going into the town. I thought you would like to hear
of this business at once."

"Oh yes, thank you."

"I could not see the man till the day before yesterday," he said, "and I could get nothing
satisfactory from him. He said he had taken the papers to a legal friend, but was not authorized
to give his name. Perhaps his views may be changed by his present condition. I will try him
again if you like."

"Thank you, thank you! Do you think this is true!"

"He is too cunning a scoundrel to tell unnecessary lies, and very likely he may have disposed
of them to some Jew attorney; but I think nothing is to be feared but some annoyance."

"And annoyance to my mother is the one thing I most fear," sighed Rachel, helplessly.

"There might be a mode of much lessening it to her," he said.

"Oh, what? Tell me, and I would do it at any cost."

"Will you?" and he came nearer. "At the cost of yourself?"

She thrilled all over, and convulsively grasped the arm of her chair.

"Would not a son be the best person to shield her from annoyance," he added, trying for his
usual tone, but failing, he exclaimed, "Rachel, Rachel, let me!"

She put her hands over her face, and cried, "Oh! oh! I never thought of this."

"No," he said, "and I know what you do think of it, but indeed you need not be wasted. Our
women and children want so much done for them, and none of our ladies are able or willing.
Will you not come and help me?"

"Don't talk to me of helping! I do nothing but spoil and ruin."

"Not now! That is all gone and past. Come and begin afresh."

"No, no, I am too disagreeable."

"May not I judge for myself?" he said, drawing nearer, and his voice falling into tremulous
tenderness.

"Headstrong--overbearing."

"Try," and his smile overbore her.

"Oh no, no, nobody can bear me! This is more than you--you ought to do--than any one should,"
she faltered, not knowing what she said.

"Than any one to whom you were not most dear!" was the answer, and he was now standing over
her, with the dew upon his eyelashes.

"Oh, that can't be. Bessie said you always took up whatever other people hated, and I know
it is only that--"

"Don't let Bessie's sayings come between us now, Rachel. This goes too deep," and he had almost
taken her hand, when with a start she drew it back, saying, "But you know what they say!"

"Have they been stupid enough to tell you?" he exclaimed. "Confute them then, Rachel--dolts
that can't believe in self-devotion! Laugh at their beards. This is the way to put an end to it!"

"Oh no, they would only detest you for my sake. I can't," she said again, bowed down again
with shame and dejection.

"I'll take care of that!" he said with the dry tone that perhaps was above all reassurance,
and conquered her far enough to enable him to take possession of the thin and still listless hand.

"Then," he said, "you will let me take this whole matter in hand; and if the worst comes to
the worst, we will make up to the charity out of the Indian money, without vexing the mother."

"I can't let you suffer for my miserable folly."

"Too late to say that!" he answered; and as her eyes were raised to him in startled inquiry,
he said gravely, "These last weeks have shown me that your troubles must be mine."

A hand was on the door, and Rachel fled, in time to screen her flight from Miss Wellwood, whom
Alick met with his usual undisturbed front, and inquiries for Mrs. Curtis.

That good lady was in the town more worried than flattered by the numerous inquiries after
Rachel's health, and conscious of having gone rather near the wind in making the best of it.
She had begun to dread being accosted by any acquaintance, and Captain Keith, sauntering near
the archway of the close, was no welcome spectacle. She would have passed him with a curt salutation,
but he grasped her hand, saying, "May I have a few words with you?"

"Not Fanny--not the children!" cried Mrs. Curtis in dismay.

"No indeed. Only myself," and a gleam of intelligence under his eyelashes and judicious pressure
of his hand conveyed volumes to Grace, who had seen him often during Rachel's illness, and
was not unprepared. She merely said that she would see how her sister was, substituted Captain
Keith's arm for her own as her mother's support, and hurried away, to encounter Miss Wellwood's
regrets that, in spite of all her precautions, dear Rachel had been disturbed by "a young officer,
I believe. We see him often at the cathedral, and somebody said it was his sister whom Lord
Keith married."

"Yes, we know him well, and he is a Victoria Cross man," said Grace, beginning to assume his
reflected glory.

"So some one said, but the Dean never calls on the officers unless there is some introduction,
or there would be no end to it. It was a mistake letting him in to disturb Rachel. Is your
mother gone up to her, my dear?"

"No, I think she is in the cathedral yard. I just came in to see about Rachel," said Grace,
escaping.

Miss Wellwood intended going out to join her old friend; but, on going to put on her bonnet,
she saw from the window Mrs. Curtis, leaning on the intruder's arm, conversing so confidentially
that the Dean's sister flushed with amazement, and only hoped she had mentioned him with due
respect. And under that southern cathedral wall good Mrs. Curtis took the longest walk she
had indulged in for the last twenty years, so that Grace, and even Rachel, beholding from the
window, began to fear that the mother would be walked to death.

But then she had that supporting arm, and the moral support, that was infinitely more! That
daughter, the spoilt pet of her husband, the subject of her pride, even when an enigma and
an anxiety, whom she had lately been forced to think of as

       "A maid whom there were few to praise
        And very few to love,"

she now found loved by one at least, and praised in terms that thrilled through and through
the mother's heart in their truth and simplicity, for that sincerity, generosity, and unselfishness.
It was her own daughter, her real Rachel, no illusion, that she heard described in those grave
earnest words, only while the whole world saw the errors and exaggerated them, here was one
who sank them all in the sterling worth that so few would recognise. The dear old lady forgot
all her prudence, and would hardly let him speak of his means; but she soon saw that Rachel's
present portion would be more than met on his side, and that no one could find fault with her
on the score of inequality of fortune. He would have been quite able to retire, and live at
ease, but this he said at once and with decision he did not intend. His regiment was his hereditary
home, and his father had expressed such strong wishes that he should not lightly desert his
profession, that he felt bound to it by filial duty as well as by other motives. Moreover,
he thought the change of life and occupation would be the best thing for Rachel, and Mrs. Curtis
could not but acquiesce, little as she had even dreamt that a daughter of hers would marry
into a marching regiment! Her surrender of judgment was curiously complete. "Dear Alexinder,"
as thenceforth she called him had assumed the mastery over her from the first turn they took
under the cathedral, and when at length he reminded her that the clock was on the stroke of
one, she accepted it on his infallible judgment, for her own sensations would have made her
believe it not a quarter of an hour since the interview had begun.

Not a word had been granted on either side to the conventional vows of secrecy, always made
to be broken, and perhaps each tacitly felt that the less secrecy the better for Rachel. Certain
it is that Mrs. Curtis went into the Deanery with her head considerably higher, kissed Rachel
vehemently, and, assuring her she knew all about it, and was happier than she had ever thought
to be again, excused her from appearing at luncheon, and hurried down thereto, without giving
any attention to a feeble entreaty that she would not go so fast. And when at three o'clock
Rachel crept downstairs to get into the carriage for her return home, the good old Dean lay
in wait for her, told her she must allow him an old friend's privilege, kissed her, congratulated
her, and said he would beg to perform the ceremony.

"Oh, Mr. Dean, it is nothing like that."

He laughed, and handed her in.

"Mother, mother, how could you?" sighed Rachel, as they drove on.

"My dear, they were so kind; they could not help knowing!"

"But it can't be."

"Rachel, my child, you like him!"

"He does not know half about me yet. Mother, don't tell Fanny or any one till I have seen him
again."

And the voice was so imperious with the wayward vehemence of illness that Mrs. Curtis durst
not gainsay it. She did not know how Alick Keith was already silencing those who asked if he
had heard of the great event at the Dean's party. Still less did she guess at the letter at
that moment in writing:--

"My Dear Bessie,--Wish me joy. I have gone in for the uncroquetable lawn, and won it.--Your
affectionate brother',

                                                 "A. C. Keith."

CHAPTER XXIII. DEAR ALEXANDER.

"I pray thee now tell me, for which of my bad parts didst thou first fall in love with me?"--Much
Ado about Nothing.

"Alick, is this all chivalry?" inquired Colonel Keith, sitting by his fire, suffering considerably
from his late drive, and hearing reports that troubled him.

"Very chivalrous, indeed! when there's an old county property to the fore."

"For that matter, you have all been canny enough to have means enough to balance all that barren
moorland. You are a richer man than I shall ever be."

"Without heiress-hunting?" said Alick, as though weighing his words.

"Come, Alick, you need not put on a mask that does not fit you! If it is not too late, take
the risk into consideration, for I own I think the price of your championship somewhat severe."

"Ask Miss Williams."

"Ermine is grateful for much kindness, and is--yes--really fond of her."

"Then, Colonel, you ought to know that a sensible woman's favourable estimate of one of her
own sex outweighs the opinion men can form of her."

"I grant that there are fine qualities; but, Alick, regarding you, as I must necessarily do,
from our former relations, you must let me speak if there is still time to warn you, lest your
pity and sense of injustice should be entangling you in a connexion that would hardly conduce
to make you happy or popular."

"Popularity is not my line," said Alick, looking composedly into the fire.