My brother's career forcibly illustrates the fact that environment plays as large a part as
heredity in shaping character. Perhaps his love for the free life of the plains is a heritage
derived from some long-gone ancestor; but there can be no doubt that to the earlier experiences
of which I am writing he owed his ability as a scout. The faculty for obtaining water, striking
trails, and finding desirable camping-grounds in him seemed almost instinct.

The tents being pitched upon a satisfactory site, Will called to Turk, the dog, and rifle in
hand, set forth in search of game for supper. He was successful beyond his fondest hopes. He
had looked only for small game, but scarcely had he put the camp behind him when Turk gave
a signaling yelp, and out of the bushes bounded a magnificent deer. Nearly every hunter will
confess to "buck fever" at sight of his first deer, so it is not strange that a boy of Will's
age should have stood immovable, staring dazedly at the graceful animal until it vanished from
sight. Turk gave chase, but soon trotted back, and barked reproachfully at his young master.
But Will presently had an opportunity to recover Turk's good opinion, for the dog, after darting
away, with another signaling yelp fetched another fine stag within gun range. This time the
young hunter, mastering his nerves, took aim with steady hand, and brought down his first deer.

On the following Sabbath we were encamped by another deep, swift-running stream. After being
wearied and overheated by a rabbit chase, Turk attempted to swim across this little river,
but was chilled, and would have perished had not Will rushed to the rescue. The ferryman saw
the boy struggling with the dog in the water, and started after him with his boat. But Will
reached the bank without assistance.

"I've hearn of dogs saving children, but this is the first time I ever hearn of a child saving
a dog from drowning," ejaculated the ferryman. "How old be you?"

"Eight, going on nine," answered Will.

"You're a big boy for your age," said the man. "But it's a wonder you didn't sink with that
load; he's a big old fellow," referring to Turk, who, standing on three feet, was vigorously
shaking the water from his coat. Will at once knelt down beside him, and taking the uplifted
foot in his hands, remarked: "He must have sprained one of his legs when he fell over that
log; he doesn't whine like your common curs when they get hurt."

"He's blooded stock, then," said the man. "What kind of dog do you call him?"

"He's an Ulm dog," said Will.

"I never heard tell of that kind of dog before."

"Did you ever hear of a tiger-mastiff, German mastiff, boar-hound, great Dane? Turk's all of
them together."

"Well," said the ferryman, "you're a pretty smart little fellow, and got lots of grit. You
ought to make your mark in the world. But right now you had better get into some dry clothes."
And on the invitation of the ferryman, Will and the limping dog got into the boat, and were
taken back to camp.

Turk played so conspicuous and important a part in our early lives that he deserves a brief
description. He was a large and powerful animal of the breed of dogs anciently used in Germany
in hunting the wild boars. Later the dogs were imported into England, where they were particularly
valued by people desiring a strong, brave watch-dog. When specially trained, they are more
fierce and active than the English mastiff. Naturally they are not as fond of the water as
the spaniel, the stag-hound, or the Newfoundland, though they are the king of dogs on land.
Not alone Will, but the rest of the family, regarded Turk as the best of his kind, and he well
deserved the veneration he inspired. His fidelity and almost human intelligence were time and
again the means of saving life and property; ever faithful, loyal, and ready to lay down his
life, if need be, in our service.

Outlaws and desperadoes were always to be met with on Western trails in those rugged days,
and more than once Turk's constant vigilance warned father in time to prevent attacks from
suspicious night prowlers. The attachment which had grown up between Turk and his young master
was but the natural love of boys for their dogs intensified. Will at that time estimated dogs
as in later years he did men, the qualities which he found to admire in Turk being vigilance,
strength, courage, and constancy. With men, as with dogs, he is not lavishly demonstrative;
rarely pats them on the back. But deeds of merit do not escape his notice or want his appreciation.
The patience, unselfishness, and true nobility observed in this faithful canine friend of his
boyhood days have many times proved to be lacking in creatures endowed with a soul; yet he
has never lost faith in mankind, or in the ultimate destiny of his race. This I conceive to
be a characteristic of all great men.

This trip was memorable for all of us, perhaps especially so for brother Will, for it comprehended
not only his first deer, but his first negro.

As we drew near the Missouri line we came upon a comfortable farm-house, at which father made
inquiry concerning a lodging for the night. A widow lived there, and the information that father
was brother to Elijah Cody, of Platte County, Missouri, won us a cordial welcome and the hospitality
of her home.

We were yet in the road, waiting father's report, when our startled vision and childish imagination
took in a seeming apparition, which glided from the bushes by the wayside.

It proved a full-blooded African, with thick lips, woolly hair, enormous feet, and scant attire.
To all except mother this was a new revelation of humanity, and we stared in wild-eyed wonder;
even Turk was surprised into silence. At this point father rejoined us, to share in mother's
amusement, and to break the spell for us by pleasantly addressing the negro, who returned a
respectful answer, accompanied by an ample grin. He was a slave on the widow's plantation.

Reassured by the grin, Will offered his hand, and tasted the joy of being addressed as "Massa"
in the talk that followed. It was with difficulty that we prevailed upon "Masse" to come to supper.

After a refreshing night's sleep we went on our way, and in a few days reached my uncle's home.
A rest was welcome, as the journey had been long and toilsome, despite the fact that it had
been enlivened by many interesting incidents, and was thoroughly enjoyed by all of the family.

CHAPTER II. -- WILL'S FIRST INDIAN.

MY uncle's home was in Weston, Platte County, Missouri, at that time the large city of the
West. As father desired to get settled again as soon as possible, he left us at Weston, and
crossed the Missouri River on a prospecting tour, accompanied by Will and a guide. More than
one day went by in the quest for a desirable location, and one morning Will, wearied in the
reconnoissance, was left asleep at the night's camping-place, while father and the guide rode
away for the day's exploring.

When Will opened his eyes they fell upon the most interesting object that the world just then
could offer him--an Indian!

The "noble red man," as he has been poetically termed by people who have but known him from
afar, was in the act of mounting Will's horse, while near by stood his own, a miserable, scrawny
beast.

Will's boyish dreams were now a reality; he looked upon his first Indian. Here, too, was a
"buck"--not a graceful, vanishing deer, but a dirty redskin, who seemingly was in some hurry
to be gone. Without a trace of "buck fever," Will jumped up, rifle in hand, and demanded:

"Here, what are you doing with my horse?"

The Indian regarded the lad with contemptuous composure.

"Me swap horses with paleface boy," said he.

The red man was fully armed, and Will did not know whether his father and the guide were within
call or not; but to suffer the Indian to ride away with Uncle Elijah's fine horse was to forfeit
his father's confidence and shake his mother's and sisters' belief in the family hero; so he
put a bold face upon the matter, and remarked carelessly, as if discussing a genuine transaction:

"No; I won't swap."

"Paleface boy fool!" returned the Indian, serenely.

Now this was scarcely the main point at issue, so Will contented himself with replying, quietly
but firmly:

"You cannot take my horse."

The Indian condescended to temporize. "Paleface horse no good," said he.

"Good enough for me," replied Will, smiling despite the gravity of the situation. The Indian
shone rather as a liar than a judge of horseflesh. "Good enough for me; so you can take your
old rack of bones and go."

Much to Will's surprise, the red man dropped the rein, flung himself upon his own pony, and
made off. And down fell "Lo the poor Indian" from the exalted niche that he had filled in Will's
esteem, for while it was bad in a copper hero to steal horses, it was worse to flee from a
boy not yet in his teens. But a few moments later Lo went back to his lofty pedestal, for Will
heard the guide's voice, and realized that it was the sight of a man, and not the threats of
a boy, that had sent the Indian about his business--if he had any.

The guide had returned to escort Will to the spot which father, after a search of nearly a
week, had discovered, and where he had decided to locate our home. It was in Salt Creek Valley,
a fertile blue-grass region, sheltered by an amphitheater range of hills. The old Salt Lake
trail traversed this valley. There were at this time two great highways of Western travel,
the Santa Fe and the Salt Lake trails; later the Oregon trail came into prominence. Of these
the oldest and most historic was the Santa Fe trail, the route followed by explorers three
hundred years ago. It had been used by Indian tribes from time, to white men, immemorial. At
the beginning of this century it was first used as an artery of commerce. Over it Zebulon Pike
made his well-known Western trip, and from it radiated his explorations. The trail lay some
distance south of Leavenworth. It ran westward, dipping slightly to the south until the Arkansas
River was reached; then, following the course of this stream to Bent's Fort, it crossed the
river and turned sharply to the south. It went through Raton Pass, and below Las Vegas it turned
west to Santa Fe.

Exploration along the line of the Salt Lake trail began also with this century. It became a
beaten highway at the time of the Mormon exodus from Nauvoo to their present place of abode.
The trail crossed the Missouri River at Leavenworth, and ran northerly to the Platte, touching
that stream at Fort Kearny. With a few variations it paralleled the Platte to its junction
with the Sweetwater, and left this river valley to run through South Pass to big Sandy Creek,
turning south to follow this little stream. At Fort Bridger it turned westward again, passed
Echo Canon, and a few miles farther on ran into Salt Lake City. Over this trail journeyed thousands
of gold-hunters toward California, hopeful and high-spirited on the westerly way, disappointed
and depressed, the large majority of them, on the back track. Freighting outfits, cattle trains,
emigrants--nearly all the western travel--followed this track across the new land. A man named
Rively, with the gift of grasping the advantage of location, had obtained permission to establish
a trading-post on this trail three miles beyond the Missouri, and as proximity to this depot
of supplies was a manifest convenience, father's selection of a claim only two miles distant
was a wise one.

The Kansas-Nebraska Bill, which provided for the organizing of those two territories and opened
them for settlement, was passed in May. 1854. This bill directly opposed the Missouri Compromise,
which restricted slavery to all territory south of 36'0 30" north latitude. A clause in the
new bill provided that the settlers should decide for themselves whether the new territories
were to be free or slave states. Already hundreds of settlers were camped upon the banks of
the Missouri, waiting the passage of the bill before entering and acquiring possession of the
land. Across the curtain of the night ran a broad ribbon of dancing camp-fires, stretching
for miles along the bank of the river.

None too soon had father fixed upon his claim. The act allowing settlers to enter was passed
in less than a week afterward. Besides the pioneers intending actual settlement, a great rush
was made into the territories by members of both political parties. These became the gladiators,
with Kansas the arena, for a bitter, bloody contest between those desiring and those opposing
the extension of slave territory.

Having already decided upon his location, father was among the first, after the bill was passed,
to file a claim and procure the necessary papers, and shortly afterward he had a transient
abiding-place prepared for us. Whatever mother may have thought of the one-roomed cabin, whose
chinks let in the sun by day and the moon and stars by night, and whose carpet was nature's
greenest velvet, life in it was a perennial picnic for the children. Meantime father was at
work on our permanent home, and before the summer fled we were domiciled in a large double-log
house--rough and primitive, but solid and comfort-breeding.

This same autumn held an episode so deeply graven in my memory that time has not blurred a
dine of it. Jane, our faithful maid of all work, who went with us to our Western home, had
little time to play the governess. Household duties claimed her every waking hour, as mother
was delicate, and the family a large one; so Turk officiated as both guardian and playmate
of the children.

One golden September day Eliza and I set out after wild flowers, accompanied by Turk and mother's
caution not to stray too far, as wild beasts, 'twas said, lurked in the neighboring forest;
but the prettiest flowers were always just beyond, and we wandered afield until we reached
a fringe of timber half a mile from the house, where we tarried under the trees. Meantime mother
grew alarmed, and Will was dispatched after the absent tots.

Turk, as we recalled, had sought to put a check upon our wanderings, and when we entered the
woods his restlessness increased. Suddenly he began to paw up the carpet of dry leaves, and
a few moments later the shrill scream of a panther echoed through the forest aisles.

Eliza was barely six years old, and I was not yet four. We clung to each other in voiceless
terror. Then from afar came a familiar whistle--Will's call to his dog. That heartened us,
babes as we were, for was not our brother our reliance in every emergency? Rescue was at hand;
but Turk continued tearing up the leaves, after signaling his master with a loud bark. Then,
pulling at our dresses, he indicated the refuge he had dug for us. Here we lay down, and the
dog covered us with the leaves, dragging to the heap, as a further screen, a large dead branch.
Then, with the heart of a lion, he put himself on guard.

From our leafy covert we could see the panther's tawny form come gliding through the brush.
He saw Turk, and crouched for a spring. This came as an arrow, but Turk dodged it; and then,
with a scream such as I never heard from dog before or since, our defender hurled himself upon
the foe.

Turk was powerful, and his courage was flawless, but he was no match for the panther. In a
few moments the faithful dog lay stunned and bleeding from one stroke of the forest-rover's
steel-shod paw. The cruel beast had scented other prey, and dismissing Turk, he paced to and
fro, seeking to locate us. We scarcely dared to breathe, and every throb of our frightened
little hearts was a prayer that Will would come to us in time.

At last the panther's roving eyes rested upon our inadequate hiding-place, and as he crouched
for the deadly leap we hid our faces.

But Turk had arisen. Wounded as he was, he yet made one last heroic effort to save us by again
directing the panther's attention to himself.

The helpless, hopeless ordeal of agony was broken by a rifle's sharp report. The panther fell,
shot through the heart, and out from the screen of leaves rushed two hysterical little girls,
with pallid faces drowned in tears, who clung about a brother's neck and were shielded in his arms.

Will, himself but a child, caressed and soothed us in a most paternal fashion; and when the
stone of sobs was passed we turned to Turk. Happily his injuries were not fatal, and he whined
feebly when his master reached him.

"Bravo! Good dog!" cried Will. "You saved them, Turk! You saved them!" And kneeling beside
our faithful friend, he put his arms about the shaggy neck.

Dear old Turk! If there be a land beyond the sky for such as thou, may the snuggest corner
and best of bones be thy reward!

CHAPTER III. -- THE SHADOW OF PARTISAN STRIFE.

OWING to the conditions, already spoken of, under which Kansas was settled, all classes were
represented in its population. Honest, thrifty farmers and well-to-do traders leavened a lump
of shiftless ne'er-do-wells, lawless adventurers, and vagabonds of all sorts and conditions.
If father at times questioned the wisdom of coming to this new and untried land, he kept his
own counsel, and set a brave face against the future.

He had been prominent in political circles in Iowa, and had filled positions of public trust;
but he had no wish to become involved in the partisan strife that raged in Kansas. He was a
Free Soil man, and there were but two others in that section who did not believe in slavery.
For a year he kept his political views to himself; but it became rumored about that he was
an able public speaker, and the pro-slavery men naturally ascribed to him the same opinions
as those held by his brother Elijah, a pronounced pro-slavery man; so they regarded father
as a promising leader in their cause. He had avoided the issue, and had skillfully contrived
to escape declaring for one side or the other, but on the scroll of his destiny it was written
that he should be one of the first victims offered on the sacrificial altar of the struggle
for human liberty.

The post-trader's was a popular rendezvous for all the settlers round. It was a day in the
summer of '55 that father visited the store, accompanied, as usual, by Will and Turk. Among
the crowd, which was noisy and excited, he noted a number of desperadoes in the pro-slavery
faction, and noted, too, that Uncle Elijah and our two Free Soil neighbors, Mr. Hathaway and
Mr. Lawrence, were present.

Father's appearance was greeted by a clamor for a speech. To speak before that audience was
to take his life in his hands; yet in spite of his excuses he was forced to the chair.

It was written! There was no escape! Father walked steadily to the dry-goods box which served
as a rostrum. As he passed Mr. Hathaway, the good old man plucked him by the sleeve and begged
him to serve out platitudes to the crowd, and to screen his real sentiments.

But father was not a man that dealt in platitudes.

