Oh for a field, my friend; oh for a field!
   I ask no more
   Than one plain field, shut in by hedgerows four,
Contentment sweet to yield. A minute rested the black Car in the
silvery light of the height, threw out some colorful people who swallowed a different, voices were
angry back and forth, then forward again shouted the hoarse machine and pulled the black Chain
rattling down into the cavity of the tunnel. Purely stretched, with clear, from the wet wind
swept clean background was again executed the spread landscape.

One of the arrivals, young, with good clothes and the natural elasticity of step remarkably sympathetic,
the other quickly took a cab to the hotel ahead. trappten Without haste the horse the ascending
path. It was spring in the air. Those white, turbulent clouds fluttered in the sky, which has
only in May and June, those white, even young and fluttery fellows who run play on the blue
car to suddenly behind high to hide mountains hugging himself and flee, crumple soon as handkerchiefs,
soon falling apart into strips and put in practical jokes finally the mountains white hats.
Restlessness was also up in the wind, the lean, still wet from the rain trees shook unruly Sun, that
they gently in the joints cracked and wegsprühten thousand drops like sparks from him. Sometimes
seemed cool scent of snow coming over from the mountains, then you could feel the Breathing
something that was sweet and spicy at the same time. Overall, air and earth was moving and fermenting
Impatience. Quiet snorting horses ran down the now rising path, the bells rang them far ahead.

The hotel was the first way of the young man to the list of the guests that he - soon disappointed
- by flying. "What I'm actually here," began to wonder uneasily at him. "But to be here on the
mountain, no society is worse than the Bureau. Apparently am I arrived too early or too late.
I've never been lucky with my holidays. Not a single known Name I think among all the people. If only
a few women were there, some small, in an emergency even innocent flirtation to spend this week not
too bleak. "The young Man, a baron of not very sonorous Austrian official nobility, in the governor's
office employed, had taken this little vacation without any need, really only because all his
colleagues a spring break and he had enforced its the service did not want to pay. He was,
although not devoid of internal capability, a very social nature, such as a popular view, in
all circles like and his inability to fully realize loneliness. In him was no inclination
to himself alone to face, and he avoided as these meetings, because he more intimate acquaintance
wanted to do with themselves. He knew he needed the friction of people to his talent, the warmth
and high spirits to have flare up of his heart, and he alone Frosty and myself was useless as
a match in the box.

He went out of tune in the empty hall and down, sometimes inconclusive
leafing through the newspapers, soon in the music room at the piano
touch a waltz in which it but the rhythm did not jump right into the
finger.

Finally he sat down morosely, looking out, as the darkness fell down slowly, the mist gray as
a steam burst from the pines. One hour He crumbled so useless and nervous. Then he fled into
the dining room.

There, only a few tables were occupied, all of which he flew over
with hurried glance.

In vain! No friends, only there - he was casually return a greeting - a coach, there again Face
of the ring road here, nothing else. No woman, nothing that a well-volatile Adventure promised.
His despondency was impatient. He was one of those young people whose handsome Face is much more successful
and which is now resistant to all for a new encounter, a new Experience is available, which are
always eager to be an adventure into the unknown to fast, nothing surprising, because they have
everything calculated lurking, overlooked nothing erotic, because every woman has her first look
at the sensible uses, testing and without distinction, whether it is the wife of their friend or
the maid, opens the door to her. If If such people with a certain frivolous contempt womanizer
is called, so done it without knowing how much truth is petrified observed in the word, because
in fact, all the passionate instincts of the hunt, Search, arousal and the mental cruelty flicker
in the restless wakefulness such people. They are resistant on the decency, ever ready and determined
to track down hard on an adventure to the abyss to follow.

   When winter reigns and sheets of snow,
      The flowers and grass lie under;
   The sparkling hoar frost yet shall show,
      A world of fairy wonder.
   To me more dear such scenes appear,
      Than this eternal racket,
   No longer will I fret and fag! The doctor was quite surprised how
well it went and how happy Andrew the carpenter looked at once. He sat now all day at the
window where the sun went, and looked after every step of the Wiseli Occurs, as if he even
could never see enough - as it opened a box and then again, as he was under the hands everything
clean and tidy, as he never before had seen.

Wiseli but was happy in my quiet little house, as it heard only loving words and under the friendly
eyes that accompanied it constantly. It is not allowed because To think how soon the fortnight
would be to end it and return again to the book Rain had.

8.

Chapter (It happens, something unexpected)

In the house on the slope was much talk of the carpenter and Andres
Wiseli.

Every Morning the woman look colonel, as going to the patient, and each time they brought back
Report a happier home.

The offset in all the joyous mood. Otto and Pussy made a plan, like a big hard recovery would
have to be celebrated in Schreiner Andres office, but before Wiseli
Rain returned to the book.

That should be a main joy and for Andres and a Wiseli be big surprise. Solemnly Otto had already
sat down and Pussy in great expectation of all the things were to come.

Now father and mother appeared, and the good meal began.

After the first court had been consumed fun, appeared a been covered dish. This was the birthday
court. The lid was lifted, and a fine cauliflower was there, as fresh as if he had just brought
in the garden.

"This is a magnificent flower," said the father, "the praise you have. You know, dear Marie, I
look at tables covered in only after artichokes.

"But suddenly she said nothing and went down quickly with their arms
up under the table and was completely blood red become.

Otto and sat opposite her and threw her angry glances.

"What is it strange for a celebration of my birthday?" asked the
astonished father. Otto had now been discovered. He could not look
up.

"Now, Pussy," his father began again, "what has become of your
Raeubergeschichte?

"So, that was nice of him," the father said, laughing.
"And then?"

"Then on nothing more," whimpered Pussy. Hark, hear
that melancholy shriek, alack!-- That vile lumbago keeps him on the rack. He had a long, long held out indefinitely, so why stop now, when he, at
best, not even in the best was starving? Why did you rob him of the glory continue to starve,
to be not just the largest hunger artist of all time, which he indeed probably was, but also to
excel himself to the incomprehensible, because of his hunger ability he felt no limits . Why
had this amount, which purported to admire him so much, so a little patience with him if he could
stand it, even more hungry to why they did not want to endure? He was too tired, sat well in the
straw and should now raise up high and long and go to the food that caused him nausea the idea
of being alone, that statement he only with regard to the Women's painfully repressed. And he
looked up into the eyes of seemingly friendly, in reality so cruel men and shook his neck-heavy on
the weak head. But then, what was always done. The manager was lifted, silent - the music did the
talking impossible - the arms of the hunger artist, as if inviting the sky, to look at his
work here on the straw, this unfortunate martyr, which the hunger artist was, however, only in a very
different sense, took the hunger artists around the thin waist, said he wanted to make credible by
an excess of caution, with such frail he thing have to do it here, and gave him - not without him
in secret to shake a little, so that the hunger artist uncontrolled with the legs and upper body
swaying back and forth - in the meantime had become deathly pale ladies. Well tolerated the
hunger artist everything, the head lay on his chest, it was as if he was executed rolls and think
there inexplicable, and the body was hollowed out and the legs pressed firmly in the self-preservation
in the knees together, scratched but the ground so as it was not the real, the real first they
sought, and the whole, however, very small weight of the body was on one of the ladies who
seeking help, with fluttering breath - so they had not imagined this volunteer - first the
neck possible stretched to at least keep the face from contact with the hunger artist, but because
she managed to not do this and her more fortunate companion you did not come to the rescue,
but is content with shaking the hand of the hunger artist, this little bundle of bones, in is
herzutragen under the delighted laughter of the hall erupted in tears and had to be replaced by a long-provided
services. Then came the food, of which the impresario of the hunger artist during a swoon-like
half-sleep, a little inspired, in a funny chat that was to distract attention from the state of the hunger
artist, then a toast was drunk to the audience, which the impresario whispered allegedly by hunger artist
had been, all the orchestra confirmed by a great fanfare, they broke up and no one had the right
to be dissatisfied with what is seen, no one except the hunger artist, only he. * * * * * So he
lived with regular small breaks for many years, in apparent gloss,
honored by the world, for all that, but mostly in gloomy mood, which
was still troubled by the fact that no one knew how to take it seriously.

What you should comfort him, too?

What was left for him to do? And if once was a good-natured, who regretted
and wanted to tell him that his sadness would probably by starvation,
it could, especially in advanced famine, happen that the hunger artist
responded with an outburst of rage and terror of such an animal on
to shake the bars began.

                   

Some folks who make a fearful fuss,
   In eighteen ninety-seven,
Say, heaven will either come to us,
   Or we shall go to heaven;
They settle it just as they please;
   But, though it mayn't be far,
At any rate there's time with ease
   To light a fresh cigar.

It may be there is something true;
   It may be one might find it;
It may be, if one looked life through,
   That something lies behind it;
It may be, p'raps, for aught one sees,
   The things that may be, are:
I'm growing serious--if you please
   We'll light a fresh cigar. 

Anyone who submits letters = = with the Post, which obtained the recipient post free, for which
the same to pay any postal money (Porto), which must franco = =, or = free =, or = = post free,
to write to him in the task demanded money be paid for them.

According to the Post language in general is all the money for which Transportirung of the letters
they receive funds Packages & c. cargo, from the sender or the receiver, must be paid: Porto
= =. - At the same time also mean those letters which are sent without it at the point of Task
postage is paid, are not so frankirt, but for which only the recipient to pay freight, or
the reward to the Post: Postage = =. Therefore means that a letter or send a packet and the
like = = postage, pay for nothing in the place of transmission, but leave the slaying of the Porto's
receiver.

A paid job in the letter is called a French letter or = frankirter =.

It is usually the post regardless of whether the letters and packages to the senders of French,
or be sent postage, that is, whether it deserves the money in the post-task killed, or whether
it is to be paid only from the recipient. Particularly, this is the Post indifferent when
the sending of letters and things remain in the country, or to items angränzender countries
continue to be sent, with which the country's post or the post office the place of dispatch,
as the connection and billing. It is, for example, the Prussian Post completely immaterial whether
a certain letter from Memel to Wesel porto, or French-abandoned is whether the post office
money is paid to Memel, or paid only by the receiver in Wesel should be. Just as it's the same for all
the items, which the Prussian Items have been contacted so that the post office the other the
same, sent by the Items due Post money refunded. So one can, for example, his letter to Berlin,
or in any other places in the Prussian States to Russia, Saxony, and after many other countries,
French, or abandon the postage or send it, because the royal mail her for the cash fee for postage,
sowol from domestic, as may be heard by those foreign post offices and through the accounts shall
be paid at the same leading. Same Bewandniß it has in this Respect in other states and empires.
In the Austrian States, France, Russia & C. Letters can go from a boundary to the other or postage
prepaid, because the local Item received by the receivers that can
do what has not paid the sender.

Only some exceptions to this rule arise where foreign items with no domestic Calculation have -
partly because of the difference of money, and partly also from other political Reasons. Hence
comes it that all of Germany to England certain letters to the sea, or indeed even to the packet,
which she receives must be frankirt because of England no postage is paid, since, as we know,
no English money sent from the island be allowed. - So it is with the greater part of the Austrian States.
The pertinent letters have to be frankirt at the boundary, and partly because the Austrian
Post offices to foreigners, even in part, the German Reich items pay no postage, and partly
because the Austrian money too low in value is. Therefore, all of Saxony and Saxony to the Austrian
state by going to mail items at the Bohemian Boundary are frankirt because the Austrian post offices due
to the Saxons Porto advance want to pay only in Austrian money which verliehrt Convention against
Saxon coin, the Saxon items but this loss can not accept. Even in central Germany refers to this
inconvenience for the public yet korrespondirende instead. - As you know bestehet here, except
the items of the various rulers, for example, in the states of the houses Bavaria, Hesse, Saxony
& c. also a particularly the Prince of Thurn and Taxis belonging and under his direction standing
postal system. The ancestors have this Princely House namely, started about 300 years ago, first
in Germany to create this post and officiant, which of them were paid and dependent, made, and since
it will then the usefulness these institutions soon felt, so they were not only the establishment of
the posts of the German Prince likes permitted, but they were also invited some of Estates and supported.
 Because
the bias but horses must only be prepared, perhaps they need to be recovered only from the field.
One can not demand and expect that the postmaster resistant to a small place a lot of horses
in the stable are again uncertain and our unannounced arrival, they had already prepared. It is enough
if he observes in this case, he prescribed procedure, if these circumstances is appropriate,
which unfortunately is not always because those people who draft up such regulations, rarely
have been in the situation, the possibility of execution have the
same and even tried to learn.

About to start here with the post holder would quarrel, in vain, be-ing in some case even unfair.
The traveler does well when he hurry to move them, as requested and as shall be usually made with
kind words more than by the requirement of rigor, or by threat of accusation and revenge. The postmaster
can through good driving can bring light back the time that was missed by around him. Greater
part of it is everywhere rule that a special post with as many horses, which they export, and
arrived at a station, must be carried forward. Fewer horses to take depends, not on the traveler.
Only where the road is especially good, a proportionate reduction in the number of horses is verstattet.
However, a special coach with the traveling, where roads are worse, can be an increase in the number
of horses dropped to their costs. Now, the carpenter wanted Andres to know
so much of everything so Wiseli gose on and on and would never seem to stop. While Andres listened
intently and this has been what Wiseli has done day after day.

