Peace was necessary to the success of this general policy of internal progress, but peace was
not to be had for the asking. It was not till half a century later that the power of the western
continent as a food-producing country was fully felt by Europe, and peace with the United States
became almost a condition of existence to millions in the old world, while this country became
independent, in fact as in name, to the fullest meaning of the word. Peace was not menaced
during Jefferson's first administration, for the Federalists had left no legacy of diplomatic
discord to embarrass their successors. The divisions of opinion were on home affairs. The Republican
party was the first opposition which had reached power since the formation of the government.
The Federalists had not hesitated to confine the patronage of the executive to men of their
own way of thinking. The Republicans had attacked that principle. There were men even in the
ranks of Jefferson's administration who scouted the idea that the President of the United States
could become "the President of a party." But practice and principle are not always in accord,
even in administrations of sentimental purity, and the pressure for office was as great in
1800 as it has ever since been on the arrival of a new party to power. Beyond all other departments
of government, the Treasury depends for its proper service upon business capacity and a knowledge
of the principles of accounting and office routine. Mr. Gallatin was well aware of the difficulties
his predecessors had encountered in finding and retaining competent examining and auditing
clerks. As there was no reason to suppose that all this talent was to be found in the ranks
of the Republican party, and his common sense pointed out the folly of limiting the market
of supply, he early (July 25, 1801) prepared a circular to collectors, in which he informed
them "that the door of office was no longer to be shut against any man because of his political
opinions, but that integrity and capacity suitable to the station were to be the only qualifications
required; and further, the President, considering freedom of opinion or freedom of suffrage
at public elections imprescriptible rights of citizens, would regard any exercise of official
influence to sustain or control the same rights in others as injurious to the public administration
and practically destructive of the fundamental principles of a republican Constitution." But
Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Madison opposed this simple declaration of a principle which has since
been the base of every attempt at reform in the civil service. Mr. Jefferson answered that
after one half of the subordinates were exchanged, talents and worth might alone be inquired
into in the case of new vacancies. This was a miserable shuffling policy which defeated itself.
For a Federalist to retain office when such a discrimination was applied was of itself a degradation.
Mr. Jefferson here threw away and forever lost the power to establish the true system, and
fixed the curse of patronage upon American administration. The true principle may be stated
in the form of an axiom. Administrations should rely for continuation upon measures, not on
patronage. Gallatin yielded with reluctance to the spirit of persecution which he did not hesitate
to say disgraced the Republican cause, and sank them to a level with their predecessors. Notwithstanding
his aversion, he was compelled to follow the policy of the cabinet. Its first result was to
divide the Republican party, and to alienate Burr, whose recommendation of Matthew L. Davis
for the naval office at New York was disregarded. Had the new administration declined to make
removals except for cause, such a dispute would have been avoided. As it was, the friends of
Burr considered the refusal as a declaration of war.