Leslie rose mechanically, walked out, and entered her drawing-room. What did he there, his
eyes fixed on the broken turret of Earlscraig, defined clearly on the limited horizon, his
memory hovering over the fate of fair Alice Boswell?

Was it horrible to be jealous of a dead woman? to wish herself in that ever-present grave,
sacred to him as the holiest, though no priest blessed it, no house of God threw over it the
shadow of the finger pointed to heaven--the cross that bore a world's Saviour? But that swift
and glowing passage from life and light and love, such as his to darkness, forgetfulness--eternity.
How could she have faced it? Bridget, her old enemy, had prayed she might be delivered from
it, whatever her trials.

"Nigel Boswell is gone at last; he was an old playfellow, and fortune and he have been playing
a losing game ever since," he said, in unsuspecting explanation, as he joined her where she
sat in her favourite window.

She did not answer him; she was stunned, and sat gazing abstractedly on the wallflowers rendering
golden the mossy court wall, or far away on the misty Otter sea. She thought he had relapsed
into his reveries, was with the past, the spring-tide of his life, the passion of his early
manhood, while she was a little school-girl tripping demurely and safely along the crowded
Glasgow streets. If she had looked up at him she would have seen that he was observing her
curiously--wondering where his young wife had acquired that serious brow, those fixed eyes.

"What are you thinking of, Leslie?"

"Nothing; I cannot tell," hastily and resolutely.

"That sounds suspicious." He put his hand on her head, as he had a habit of doing, but she
recoiled from him.

"A shy little brain that dreads a finger of mine on its soft covering must discover its secrets.
Are they treasures, Leslie?"

Oh, blind, absent, reckless man, what treasure-keeper kept such ward!

Lightly won, was lightly held.

Leslie struggled with her oppression for several dull feverish days; then, driven by her own
goading thoughts, her sense of injury, her thirst for justice and revenge, she left the house
and wandered out on the beach to breathe free air, to forget herself in exertion, fatigue,
stupor. It was evening, dark with vapour--gloomy, with a rising gale, and the sea was beginning
to mutter and growl. Leslie sat shivering by the water's edge, fascinated by the sympathy of
nature with her bitter hopelessness. A voice on the banks and meadows, even in the chill night
air, whispered of spring advancing rapidly, with buds and flowers, with sap, fragrance, and
warmth, and the tender grace of its flood of green; but here, by the waves, a passing thunder-cloud,
a stealthy mist, a whistling breeze, darkened the scene, and restored barren, dismal winter
in a single hour. The night drooped down without moon or star, and still Leslie sat listless,
drowsy with sorrow, until as she rose she sank back sick and giddy; and then the idea of premature
death, of passing away without a sign, of hiding her pain under the silent earth that has covered
so many sins and sorrows, first laid hold of her.

The notion was not fairly welcome: she was young; her heart had been recently wrung; she had
been listless and disappointed--but she had loved her few isolated engagements, her country
life, her household dignity, the protection of her husband. She could not divest herself of
these feelings at once. She feared the great unknown into which she should enter; but still
death did not appal her as it might have done: it was something to be scanned, waited for,
and submitted to, as a true sovereign.

The cold wind pierced her through and through; the rain fell; she could not drag herself from
the shelving rock, though the tide was rising. She felt frozen, her limbs were like lead, and
her mind was wandering, or lapsing into unconsciousness.

