Enjoying such a life of luxurious ease, Julia was almost perfectly happy. Yet her cup was not
quite full; there was one thing wanting to complete the list of her pleasures--and this deficiency
occupied her thoughts by day, and her dreams by night. Not to keep the reader in suspense,
she longed for a handsome and agreeable lover--yet none could she find suited to her taste
or wishes. True, she might have selected one from among the many gentlemen of leisure 'about
town,' who are always ready to dangle at the heels of any woman who will clothe and feed them
for their 'services.'--But she preferred a lover of a more exalted grade; one whose personal
beauty was set off by mental graces, and superior manners. And he must be poor; for then he
would be more dependent upon her, and consequently, more devoted and more constant.

Time passed, and still Julia had no lover.--Mr. Hedge mentally gave her credit for the most
virtuous fidelity; yet the amorous fair one was constantly on the qui vive to catch in her
silken meshes some desirable man with whom she might in secret pass the hours of her voluptuous
leisure.

One day, while promenading Tremont street, her eyes rested upon a gentleman whose appearance
sent a thrill of admiration and desire through every fibre of her frame. His figure, of medium
height, was erect and well-built; his gait was dignified and graceful; his dress, in exact
accordance with the mode, was singularly elegant and rich--but a superb waistcoat, a gorgeous
cravat in which glittered a diamond pin, and salmon-colored gloves, were the least attractive
points in his appearance; for his countenance was eminently handsome and striking. His hair
fell in rich masses over a fine, thoughtful brow; his eyes were dark, piercing, and full of
expression and fire; and the lower part of his face was almost completely hidden by a luxuriant
growth of whiskers, imperial and moustache. Whatever of foppishness there might be in his dress,
was qualified by the dignified grace of his manner.

'He is a charming creature, and I must catch him,' thought Julia. So, on the next day when
she met him again, and at the moment when his eyes were fixed admiringly upon her countenance,
she smiled, then blushed in the most engaging manner, and passed on in sweet confusion. The
gallant gentleman, encouraged by the smile and blush, turned and followed her. She walked on
as far as the Common, entered, and regardless of her satin dress, seated herself upon one of
the sheet-iron covered benches. The gentleman (bold fellow!) seated himself upon the same bench,
though at a respectful distance. Julia blushed again, and cast down her beautiful eyes.

You know very well, reader, how two persons, who are not acquainted, always begin a conversation.
The weather is the topic first touched upon;--and that hackneyed subject merges easily and
naturally into more agreeable discourse. So it was with Julia and her gallant; in less than
half an hour after seating themselves on that bench, they were sociably and unrestrainedly
conversing on the theatres, the opera, the last novel, and other matters and things pertaining
to the world of fashion and amusement. The lady judged her companion, by a slight peculiarity
in his accent, to be a foreigner--a circumstance that raised him still more in her estimation,
for our amorous American ladies adore foreigners. He was also a man of wit, education and talent;
and Julia became completely fascinated with him. He proposed an exchange of cards; she assented,
and found her new friend to be the 'Signor Montoni'; and he subsequently informed her that
he was an Italian teacher of languages--a piece of information that gave her pleasure, as his
following a profession was a pretty certain indication that he was poor.

When Julia returned home, the Italian accompanied her to the door. The next day they met again,
and the next; and the intimacy between them increased so rapidly, that within a week after
their confidential chat on the Common, Montoni called on Julia at her residence. But the lady
noticed that he had suddenly grown reserved and bashful; and he made this and their other interviews
provokingly short. She had hoped to have found in him an impetuous and impassioned lover--one
who needed but the opportunity to pluck the ripe fruit so temptingly held out to him; but she
found him, instead, an apparently cold and passionless man, taking no advantage of his intimacy
with her, and treating her with a distant respect that precluded all hope in her bosom of a
successful amour.

In vain did the beautiful wanton assail him with inviting glances and seductive smiles; in
vain did she, while in his presence, recline upon the sofa in attitudes of the most voluptuous
abandonment; in vain did she, as if unconsciously, display to his gaze charms which might have
moved an anchorite--a neck and shoulders of exquisite proportions, and a bosom glowing and
swelling with a thousand suppressed fires. He withstood all these attacks, and remained calm
and unmoved. When she gave him her hand to kiss at parting, he would merely raise it to his
lips, and leave her with a cold 'adieu.'

'He is cold--senseless--unworthy of my regard; I will see him no more,' said Julia to herself.
Yet when the image of the handsome Italian arose before her, so calmly noble, so proudly composed,
her resolution forsook her, and she felt that he held her, heart and soul, under some strange
and magical fascination.

'Yes, I love him,' she cried, bursting into a passionate flood of tears--'devotedly, madly
love him. Oh, why am I the suppliant slave of this cold stranger? why cannot I entice him to
my arms? Distraction: my most consummate art fails to kindle in his icy breast a single spark
of the raging fire that is consuming me!'

It may be proper to mention that Mr. Hedge knew nothing of the Italian's visits to his wife;
for Julia received him in a private parlor of her own, and there was no danger of interruption.
The old gentleman passed most of his evenings in his library; and having implicit faith in
the integrity of his wife, he allowed her to spend her evenings as she chose.

One evening Signor Montoni visited Julia rather earlier than usual; and she resolved that evening
to make a desperate effort to conquer him, even if obliged to make known her wishes in words.

During the evening she exerted herself, as usual, to captivate him, and bring him to her feet.
She sang--she played--she liberally displayed the graces of her person, and the charms of her
accomplished mind, but still in vain.--There he sat, with folded arms, in deep abstraction,
gazing at the elaborate figures on the gorgeous carpet.

At nine o'clock, Montoni arose, and took the lady's hand to bid her adieu. She gently detained
him, and drew him towards her upon the sofa.

