WOLFVILLE NIGHTS

by

Alfred Henry Lewis

Author of "Wolfville", "Wolfville Days", "Peggy O'Nea", &c.

1902,

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER

         DEDICATION
         SOME COWBOY FACTS
     I.  THE DISMISSAL OF SILVER PHIL
    II.  COLONEL STERETT'S PANTHER HUNT
   III.  HOW FARO NELL DEALT BANK
    IV.  HOW THE RAVEN DIED
     V.  THE QUEERNESS OF DAVE TUTT
    VI.  WITH THE APACHE'S COMPLIMENTS
   VII.  THE MILLS OF SAVAGE GODS
  VIII.  TOM AND JERRY; WHEELERS
    IX.  THE INFLUENCE OF FARO NELL
     X.  THE GHOST OF THE BAR-B-8
    XI.  TUCSON JENNIE'S CORRECTION
   XII.  BILL CONNORS OF THE OSAGES
  XIII.  WHEN TUTT FIRST SAW TUCSON
   XIV.  THE TROUBLES OF DAN BOGGS
    XV.  BOWLEGS AND MAJOR BEN
   XVI.  TOAD ALLEN'S ELOPEMENT
  XVII.  THE CLIENTS OF AARON GREEN
 XVIII.  COLONEL STERETT'S MARVELS
   XIX.  THE LUCK OF HARDROBE
    XX.  LONG AGO ON THE RIO GRANDE
   XXI.  COLONEL COYOTE CLUBBS

To

William Greene Sterett

this volume is

inscribed.

NEW YORK CITY,

August 1, 1902

MY DEAR STERETT:--

In offering this book to you I might have advantage of the occasion to express my friendship
and declare how high I hold you as a journalist and a man.  Or I might speak of those years
at Washington when in the gallery we worked shoulder to shoulder; I might recall to you the
wit of Hannum, or remind you of the darkling Barrett, the mighty Decker, the excellent Cohen,
the vivid Brown, the imaginative Miller, the volatile Angus, the epigrammatic Merrick, the
quietly satirical Splain, Rouzer the earnest, Boynton the energetic, Carson the eminent, and
Dunnell, famous for a bitter, frank integrity.  I might remember that day when the gifted Fanciulli,
with no more delicate inspiration than crackers, onions, and cheese, and no more splendid conservatory
than Shoemaker's, wrote, played and consecrated to you his famous "Lone Star March" wherewith
he so disquieted the public present of the next concert in the White House grounds.  Or I might
hark back to the campaign of '92, when together we struggled against national politics as evinced
in the city of New York; I might repaint that election night when, with one hundred thousand
whirling dervishes of democracy in Madison Square, dancing dances, and singing songs of victory,
we undertook through the hubbub to send from the "Twenty-third street telegraph office" half-hourly
bulletins to our papers in the West; how you, accompanied of the dignified Richard Bright,
went often to the Fifth Avenue Hotel; and how at last you dictated your bulletins--a sort of
triumphant blank verse, they were--as Homeric of spirit as lofty of phrase--to me, who caught
them as they came from your lips, losing none of their fire, and so flashed them all burning
into Texas, far away.  But of what avail would be such recount?  Distance separates us and
time has come between.  Those are the old years, these are the new, with newer years beyond.
Life like a sea is filling from rivers of experience. Forgetfulness rises as a tide and creeps
upward to drown within us those stories of the days that were.  And because this is true, it
comes to me that you as a memory must stand tallest in the midst of my regard.  For of you
I find within me no forgetfulness.  I have met others; they came, they tarried, they departed.
They came again; and on this second encounter the recollection of their existences smote upon
me as a surprise.  I had forgotten them as though they had not been.  But such is not your
tale.  Drawn on the plates of memory, as with a tool of diamond, I carry you both in broadest
outline and in each least of shade; and there hangs no picture in the gallery of hours gone,
to which I turn with more of pleasure and of good.  Nor am I alone in my recollection.  Do
I pass through the Fifth Avenue Hotel on my way to the Hoffman, that vandyked dispenser leans
pleasantly across his counter, to ask with deepest interest: "Do you hear from the Old Man
now?"  Or am I belated in Shanley's, a beaming ring of waiters--if it be not an hour overrun
of custom--will half-circle my table, and the boldest, "Pat," will question timidly, yet with
a kindly Galway warmth: "How's the Old Man?"  Old Man!  That is your title: at once dignified
and affectionate; and by it you come often to be referred to along Broadway these ten years
after its conference.  And when the latest word is uttered what is there more to fame!  I shall
hold myself fortunate, indeed, if, departing, I'm remembered by half so many half so long.
But wherefore extend ourselves regretfully?  We may meet again; the game is not played out.
Pending such bright chance, I dedicate this book to you.  It is the most of honour that lies
in my lean power.  I repeat, I am all but moved to write these lines of you.  It would tell
my case at least; and while description might limp in so far as you lack somewhat of that snuffle
of "true piety" so often engaging the Johnsonian nose, you make up the defect with possession
of a wider philosophy, a better humour and a brighter, quicker wit than visited or dwelt beneath
the candle-scorched wig of our old bully lexicographer.

ALFRED HENRY LEWIS.

Some Cowboy Facts.

There are certain truths of a botanical character that are not generally known.  Each year
the trees in their occupation creep further west.  There are regions in Missouri--not bottom
lands--which sixty years ago were bald and bare of trees.  Today they are heavy with timber.
Westward, beyond the trees, lie the prairies, and beyond the prairies, the plains; the first
are green with long grasses, the latter bare, brown and with a crisp, scorched, sparse vesture
of vegetation scarce worth the name.  As the trees march slowly westward in conquest of the
prairies, so also do the prairies, in their verdant turn, become aggressors and push westward
upon the plains.  These last stretches, extending to the base of that bluff and sudden bulwark,
the Rocky Mountains, can go no further.  The Rockies hold the plains at bay and break, as it
were, the teeth of the desert.  As a result of this warfare of vegetations, the plains are
to first disappear in favour of the prairies; and the prairies to give way before the trees.
These mutations all wait on rain; and as the rain belt goes ever and ever westward, a strip
of plains each year surrenders its aridity, and the prairies and then the trees press on and
take new ground.

These facts should contain some virtue of interest; the more since with the changes chronicled,
come also changes in the character of both the inhabitants and the employments of these regions.
With a civilised people extending themselves over new lands, cattle form ever the advance guard.
Then come the farms.  This is the procession of a civilised, peaceful invasion; thus is the
column marshalled. First, the pastoral; next, the agricultural; third and last, the manufacturing;--and
per consequence, the big cities, where the treasure chests of a race are kept.  Blood and bone
and muscle and heart are to the front; and the money that steadies and stays and protects and
repays them and their efforts, to the rear.

Forty years ago about all that took place west of the Mississipi of a money-making character
was born of cattle.  The cattle were worked in huge herds and, like the buffalo supplanted
by them, roamed in unnumbered thousands.  In a pre-railroad period, cattle were killed for
their hides and tallow, and smart Yankee coasters went constantly to such ports as Galveston
for these cargoes.   The beef was left to the coyotes.

Cattle find a natural theatre of existence on the plains.  There, likewise, flourishes the
pastoral man.  But cattle herding, confined to the plains, gives way before the westward creep
of agriculture. Each year beholds more western acres broken by the plough; each year witnesses
a diminution of the cattle ranges and cattle herding.  This need ring no bell of alarm concerning
a future barren of a beef supply.  More cattle are the product of the farm-regions than of
the ranges.  That ground, once range and now farm, raises more cattle now than then.  Texas
is a great cattle State.  Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, and Missouri are first States of agriculture.
The area of Texas is about even with the collected area of the other five.  Yet one finds double
the number of cattle in Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, and Missouri than in Texas, to say nothing
of tenfold the sheep and hogs.  No; one may be calm; one is not to fall a prey to any hunger
of beef.

While the farms in their westward pushing do not diminish the cattle, they reduce the cattleman
and pinch off much that is romantic and picturesque.  Between the farm and the wire fence,
the cowboy, as once he flourished, has been modified, subdued, and made partially to disappear.
In the good old days of the Jones and Plummer trail there were no wire fences, and the sullen
farmer had not yet arrived.  Your cowboy at that time was a person of thrill and consequence.
He wore a broad-brimmed Stetson hat, and all about it a rattlesnake skin by way of band, retaining
head and rattles.  This was to be potent against headaches--a malady, by the way, which swept
down no cowboy save in hours emergent of a spree.  In such case the snake cure didn't cure.
The hat was retained in defiance of winds, by a leathern cord caught about the back of the
head, not under the chin. This cord was beautiful with a garniture of three or four perforated
poker chips, red, yellow, and blue.

There are sundry angles of costume where the dandyism of a cowboy of spirit and conceit may
acquit itself; these are hatband, spurs, saddle, and leggins.  I've seen hatbands made of braided
gold and silver filigree; they were from Santa Fe, and always in the form of a rattlesnake,
with rubies or emeralds or diamonds for eyes.  Such gauds would cost from four hundred to two
thousand dollars.  Also, I've encountered a saddle which depleted its proud owner a round twenty-five
hundred dollars.  It was of finest Spanish leather, stamped and spattered with gold bosses.
There was gold-capping on the saddle horn, and again on the circle of the cantle.  It was a
dream of a saddle, made at Paso del Norte; and the owner had it cinched upon a bronco dear
at twenty dollars.  One couldn't have sold the pony for a stack of white chips in any faro
game of that neighbourhood (Las Vegas) and they were all crooked games at that.

Your cowboy dandy frequently wears wrought steel spurs, inlaid with silver and gold; price,
anything you please.  If he flourish a true Brummel of the plains his leggins will be fronted
from instep to belt with the thick pelt, hair outside, of a Newfoundland dog.  These "chapps,"
are meant to protect the cowboy from rain and cold, as well as plum bushes, wire fences and
other obstacles inimical, and against which he may lunge while riding headlong in the dark.
The hair of the Newfoundland, thick and long and laid the right way, defies the rains; and
your cowboy loathes water.

Save in those four cardinals of vanity enumerated, your cowboy wears nothing from weakness;
the rest of his outfit is legitimate.  The long sharp heels of his boots are there to dig into
the ground and hold fast to his mother earth while roping on foot.  His gay pony when "roped"
of a frosty morning would skate him all across and about the plains if it were not for these
heels.  The buckskin gloves tied in one of the saddle strings are used when roping, and to
keep the half-inch manila lariat--or mayhap it's horsehair or rawhide pleated--from burning
his hands.  The red silken sash one was wont aforetime to see knotted about his waist, was
used to hogtie and hold down the big cattle when roped and thrown. Anxiety, today, i see, face, dentition.
",", ", you see up.',','probable be assoil.'',','.'wrath! nose!" "Unfairness! whom?" "you? why,
her recalls." ", to myself?" "not; an unfair to anybody. Arouse yourself; there is an; it. What left?"
"alas!". His sweetheart, "'. Him; i." "indicted; him?

Man must be get s-specific, adulterer, choose." "her are; and, i, him? But'mt; who can battle?
If i can have wear does not convert, shall not. Man, minutes, they.

Unitedly, spouse, really, equally!

You. I." "to all, so, caput.

Informant, intimation. Handwear."

"velvet?" "i have lie. Name,'an'Velvet,'. To wiltshire will now, vint herself. He. Merely; i.".
Edson. "you," he, "i am make. O that i now!" Intern, you. "i gamble, so,". "." "i will to do
whatever i," she. "affectionately, i, i. Ability."

"i, s. Mare,'titanium, i. Her. You are an stands, parent, i am the professional." "you am a back."
"Juvenile," sweetheart, "my aquavit, i were string.

You. Shift, i. He think, you." "ah! would see you could!" i. gaunt, speech, her gamble i name
up, sojourn, mare. "Archangel." Title. gaunt to obey, it was but element, plot, i. Blain, i. With her.
To have brought her stoutly's. Rosary, one, invocation; but, hitherto,
they were preces sine mente dictæ.

I was not hot, s. Face. Sweetheart, David has brought, Bunyan, familiarization, life, her gamble,
her. Somberness, prophet, give away all racket. Name, my bottom,
besides, stern, m. "self, prophet, m."***** her had implore part-noon,
face.

"the?". ". Menteith,", about, edson. Sweetheart. Menteith had been so to my, miserably. Title.
Sweetbrier, you. ",". Inmost, ", m." "miss to be state,". "'Saint,'.
Mare.".

Joe, female. Doctor, seat. gaunt.


Sated with faro bank and monte--they can't be called games of chance, the only games of chance
occurring when cowboys engage with each other at billiards or pool--sated, I say, with faro
and Mexican monte, and exuberant of rum, which last has regular quick renewal, our cowboy will
stagger to his pony, swing into the saddle, and with gladsome whoops and an occasional outburst
from his six shooter directed toward the heavens, charge up and down the street.  This last
amusement appeals mightily to cowboys too drunk to walk.  For, be it known, a gentleman may
ride long after he may not walk.

If a theatre be in action and mayhap a troop of "Red Stocking Blondes," elevating the drama
therein, the cowboy is sure to attend. Also he will arrive with his lariat wound about his
body under his coat; and his place will be the front row.  At some engaging crisis, such as
the "March of the Amazons," having first privily unwound and organised his lariat to that end,
he will arise and "rope" an Amazon. This will produce bad language from the manager of the
show, and compel the lady to sit upon the stage to the detriment of her wardrobe if no worse,
and all to keep from being pulled across the footlights.  Yet the exercise gives the cowboy
deepest pleasure. Having thus distinguished the lady of his admiration, later he will meet
her and escort her to the local dancehall.  There, mingling with their frank companions, the
two will drink, and loosen the boards of the floor with the strenuous dances of our frontier
till daylight does appear.

For the matter of a week, or perchance two--it depends on how fast his money melts--in these
fashions will our gentleman of cows engage his hours and expand himself.  He will make a deal
of noise, drink a deal of whiskey, acquire a deal of what he terms "action"; but he harms nobody,
and, in a town toughened to his racket and which needs and gets his money, disturbs nobody.

"Let him whoop it up; he's paying for it, ain't he?" will be the prompt local retort to any
inquiry as to why he is thus permitted to disport.

So long as the cowboy observes the etiquette of the town, he will not be molested or "called
down" by marshal or sheriff or citizen.  There are four things your cowboy must not do.  He
must not insult a woman; he must not shoot his pistol in a store or bar-room; he must not ride
his pony into those places of resort; and as a last proposal he must not ride his pony on the
sidewalks.  Shooting or riding into bar-rooms is reckoned as dangerous; riding on the sidewalk
comes more under the head of insult, and is popularly regarded as a taunting defiance of the
town marshal.  On such occasions the marshal never fails to respond, and the cowboy is called
upon to surrender.  If he complies, which to the credit of his horse-sense he commonly does,
he is led into brief captivity to be made loose when cooled.  Does he resist arrest, there
is an explosive rattle of six shooters, a mad scattering of the careful citizenry out of lines
of fire, and a cowboy or marshal is added to the host beyond.  At the close of the festival,
if the marshal still lives he is congratulated; if the cowboy survives he is lynched; if both
fall, they are buried with the honours of frontier war; while whatever the event, the communal
ripple is but slight and only of the moment, following which the currents of Western existence
sweep easily and calmly onward as before.

    A. H. L.

WOLFVILLE NIGHTS

CHAPTER I.

The Dismissal of Silver Phil.

"His name, complete, is 'Silver City Philip.'  In them social observances of the Southwest
wherein haste is a feacher an' brev'ty the bull's eye aimed at, said cognomen gets shortened
to 'Silver Phil.'"

The Old Cattleman looked thoughtfully into his glass, as if by that method he collected the
scattered elements of a story.  There was a pause; then he lifted the glass to his lips as
one who being now evenly equipped of information, proposed that it arrive hand in hand with
the inspiration which should build a tale from it.

"Shore, this Silver Phil is dead now; an' I never yet crosses up with the gent who's that sooperfluous
as to express regrets.  It's Dan Boggs who dismisses Silver Phil; Dan does it in efforts he
puts forth to faithfully represent the right.

"Doc Peets allers allows this Silver Phil is a 'degen'rate;' leastwise that's the word Peets
uses.  An' while I freely concedes I ain't none too cl'ar as to jest what a degen'rate is,
I stands ready to back Peets' deescription to win.  Peets is, bar Colonel William Greene Sterett,
the best eddicated sharp in Arizona; also the wariest as to expressin' views.  Tharfore when
Peets puts it up, onflinchin', that this yere Silver Phil's a degen'rate, you-all can spread
your blankets an' go to sleep on it that a degen'rate he is.

"Silver Phil is a little, dark, ignorant, tousled-ha'red party, none too neat in costume. 
He's as black an' small an' evil-seemin' as a Mexican; still, you sees at a glance he ain't
no Greaser neither.  An' with all this yere surface wickedness, Silver Phil has a quick, hyster'cal
way like a woman or a bird; an' that's ever a grin on his face.  You can smell 'bad' off Silver
Phil, like smoke in a house, an' folks who's on the level--an' most folks is--conceives a notion
ag'in him the moment him an' they meets up.

"The first time I observes Silver Phil, he's walkin' down the licker room of the Red Light.
As he goes by the bar, Black Jack--who's rearrangin' the nosepaint on the shelf so it shows
to advantage--gets careless an' drops a bottle.

"'Crash!' it goes onto the floor.

"With the sound, an' the onexpected suddenness of it stampedin' his nerves, that a-way, Silver
Phil leaps into the air like a cat; an' when he 'lights, he's frontin' Black Jack an' a gun
in each hand.

"'Which I won't be took!' says Silver Phil, all flustered.

"His eyes is gleamin' an' his face is palin' an' his ugly grin gets even uglier than before.
But like a flash, he sees thar's nothin' to go in the air about--nothin' that means him; an'
he puts up his hardware an' composes himse'f.

"'You-all conducts yourse'f like a sport who has something on his mind,' says Texas Thompson,
who's thar present at the time, an' can't refrain from commentin' on the start that bottle-smashin'
gives Silver Phil.

"This Silver Phil makes no response, but sort o' grins plenty ghastly, while his breath comes
quick.

"Still, while you-all notes easy that this person's scared, it's plain he's a killer jest the
same.  It's frequent that a-way.  I'm never much afraid of one of your cold game gents like
Cherokee Hall; you can gamble the limit they'll never put a six-shooter in play till it's shorely
come their turn.  But timid, feverish, locoed people, whose jedgment is bad an' who's prone
to feel themse'fs in peril; they're the kind who kills.  For myse'f I shuns all sech.  I won't
say them erratic, quick-to-kill sports don't have courage; only it strikes me--an' I've rode
up on a heap of 'em--it's more like a fear-bit f'rocity than sand.

"Take Enright or Peets or Cherokee or Tutt or Jack Moore or Boggs or Texas Thompson; you're
plumb safe with sech gents--all or any.  An' yet thar ain't the first glimmer of bein' gun-shy
about one of 'em; they're as clean strain as the eternal granite, an' no more likely to hide
out from danger than a hill.  An' while they differs from each other, yet they're all different
from sech folks as Silver Phil.  Boggs, goin' to war, is full of good-humoured grandeur, gala
and confident, ready to start or stop like a good hoss.  Cherokee Hall is quiet an' wordless;
he gets pale, but sharp an' deadly; an' his notion is to fight for a finish.  Peets is haughty
an' sooperior on the few o'casions when he onbends in battle, an' comports himse'f like a gent
who fights downhill; the same, ondoubted, bein' doo to them book advantages of Peets which
elevates him an' lifts him above the common herd a whole lot.  Enright who's oldest is of course
slowest to embark in blood, an' pulls his weepons--when he does pull 'em--with sorrowful resignation.

"'Which I'm shorely saddest when I shoots,' says Enright to me, as he reloads his gun one time.

"These yere humane sentiments, however, don't deter him from shootin' soon an' aimin' low,
which latter habits makes Wolfville's honoured chief a highly desp'rate game to get ag'inst.

"Jack Moore, bein' as I explains former, the execyootive of the Stranglers, an' responsible
for law an' order, has a heap of shootin' shoved onto him from time to time.  Jack allers transacts
these fireworks with a ca'm, offishul front, the same bein' devoid, equal, of anger or regrets.
Tutt, partic'lar after he weds Tucson Jennie, an' more partic'lar still when he reaps new honours
as the originator of that blessed infant Enright Peets Tutt, carries on what shootin' comes
his way in a manner a lot dignified an' lofty; while Texas Thompson--who's mebby morbid about
his wife down in Laredo demandin' she be divorced that time--although he picks up his hand
in a fracas, ready an' irritable an' with no delays, after all is that well-balanced he's bound
to be each time plumb right.

"Which, you observes, son, from these yere settin's forth, that thar's a mighty sight of difference
between gents like them pards of mine an' degen'rates of the tribe of Silver Phil.  It's the
difference between right an' wrong; one works from a impulse of pure jestice, the other is
moved of a sperit of crime; an' thar you be.

"Silver Phil, we learns later--an' it shore jestifies Peets in his theories about him bein'
a degen'rate--has been in plenty of blood. But allers like a cat; savage, gore-thirsty, yet
shy, prideless, an' ready to fly.  It seems he begins to be homicidal in a humble way by downin'
a trooper over near Fort Cummings.  That's four years before he visits us.  He's been blazin'
away intermittent ever since, and allers crooel, crafty an' safe.  It's got to be a shore thing
or Silver Phil quits an' goes into the water like a mink.

"This yere ondersized miscreant ain't ha'nted about Wolfville more'n four days before he shows
how onnecessary he is to our success.  Which he works a ha'r copper on Cherokee Hall.  What's
a ha'r copper?  I'll onfold, short and terse, what Silver Phil does, an' then you saveys. Cherokee's
dealin' his game--farobank she is; an' if all them national banks conducts themse'fs as squar'
as that enterprise of Cherokee's, the fields of finance would be as safely honest as a church.
Cherokee's turnin' his game one evenin'; Faro Nell on the lookout stool where she belongs.
Silver Phil drifts up to the lay-out, an' camps over back of the king-end.  He gets chips,
an' goes to takin' chances alternate on the king, queen, jack, ten; all side an' side they
be. Cherokee bein' squar' himse'f ain't over-prone to expect a devious play in others.  He
don't notice this Silver Phil none speshul, an' shoves the kyards.

"Silver Phil wins three or four bets; it's Nell that catches on to his racket, an' signs up
to Cherokee onder the table with her little foot. One glance an' Cherokee is loaded with information.
This Silver Phil, it seems, in a sperit of avarice, equips himse'f with a copper--little wooden
checker, is what this copper is--one he's done filched from Cherokee the day prior.  He's fastened
a long black hoss-ha'r to it, an' he ties the other end of the hoss-ha'r to his belt in front.
This ha'r is long enough as he's planted at the table that a-way, so it reaches nice to them
four nearest kyards,--the king, queen, jack, ten. An' said ha'r is plumb invisible except to
eyes as sharp as Faro Nell's.  The deceitful Silver Phil will have a stack on one of 'em, coppered
with this yere ha'r copper.  He watches the box.  As the turns is made, if the kyards come
his way, well an' good.  Silver Phil does nothin' but garners in results.  When the kyards
start to show ag'in him, however, that's different.  In sech events Silver Phil draws in his
breath, sort o' takin' in on the hoss-ha'r, an' the copper comes off the bet.  When the turn
is made, thar's Silver Phil's bet--by virchoo of said fraud--open an' triumphant an' waitin'
to be paid.

"Cherokee gets posted quick an with a look.  As sharp as winkin' Cherokee has a nine-inch bowie
in his hand an' with one slash cuts the hoss-ha'r clost up by Silver Phil's belt.

"'That's a yoonique invention!" observes Cherokee, an' he's sarcastic while he menaces with
the knife at Silver Phil; 'that contraption is shorely plenty sagacious!  But it don't go here.
Shove in your chips.' Silver Phil obeys: an' he shows furtive, ugly, an' alarmed, an' all of
'em at once.  He don't say a word.  'Now pull your freight,' concloods Cherokee.  'If you ever
drifts within ten foot of a game of mine ag'in I'll throw this knife plumb through you--through
an' through.'  An' Cherokee, by way of lustration lets fly the knife across the bar-room. It
comes like a flash.

"'Chuck!'

"Thar's a picture paper pasted onto the wooden wall of the Red Light, displayin' the liniaments
of some party.  That bowie pierces the picture--a shot in the cross it is--an' all with sech
fervour that the p'int of the blade shows a inch an' a half on the other side of that individyool
board.

"'The next time I throws a knife in your presence,' remarks Cherokee to Silver Phil, an' Cherokee's
as cold an' p'isonous as a rattlesnake, 'it'll be la'nched at you.'

"Silver Phil don't say nothin' in retort.  He's aware by the lib'ral way Cherokee sep'rates
himse'f from the bowie that said weepon can't constitoote Cherokee's entire armament.  An'
as Silver Phil don't pack the sperit to face no sech flashlight warrior, he acts on Cherokee's
hint to vamos, an fades into the street.  Shore, Cherokee don't cash the felon's chips none;
he confiscates 'em.  Cherokee ain't quite so tenderly romantic as to make good to a detected
robber.  Moreover, he lets this Silver Phil go onharmed when by every roole his skelp is forfeit.
It turns out good for the camp, however, as this yere experience proves so depressin' to Silver
Phil he removes his blankets to Red Dog.  Thar among them purblind tarrapins, its inhabitants,
it's likely he gets prosperous an' ondetected action on that little old ha'r copper of his.

"It's not only my beliefs, but likewise the opinions of sech joodicial sports as Enright, Peets,
an' Colonel Sterett, that this maverick, Silver Phil, is all sorts of a crim'nal.  An' I wouldn't
wonder if he's a pure rustler that a-way; as ready to stand up a stage as snake a play at farobank.
This idee settles down on the Wolfville intell'gence on the heels of a vicissitoode wherein
Dan Boggs performs, an' which gets pulled off over in the Bird Cage Op'ry House.  Jack Moore
ain't thar none that time.  Usual, Jack is a constant deevotee of the dramy. Jack's not only
a first-nighter, he comes mighty clost to bein' a every-nighter.  But this partic'lar evenin'
when Boggs performs, Jack's rummagin' about some'ers else.

"If Jack's thar, it's even money he'd a-had that second shot instead of Boggs; in which event,
the results might have been something graver than this yere minoote wound which Boggs confers.
I'm confident Jack would have cut in with the second shot for sech is his offishul system.
Jack more'n once proclaims his position.

"'By every roole of law,' says Jack at epocks when he declar's himse'f, 'an' on all o'casions,
I, as kettle-tender to the Stranglers, is entitled to the first shot.  When I uses the term
'o'casion,' I would be onderstood as alloodin' to affairs of a simply social kind, an' not
to robberies, hold-ups, hoss-larcenies, an' other an' sim'lar transactions in spec'latif crime
when every gent defends his own. Speakin' social, however, I reasserts that by every roole
of guidance, I'm entitled to the first shot.  Which a doo regyard for these plain rights of
mine would go far to freein' Wolfville upper circles of the bullets which occurs from time
to time, an' which even the most onconventional admits is shore a draw-back.  All I can add
as a closer,' concloods Jack, 'is that I'll make haste to open on any sport who transgresses
these fiats an' goes to shootin' first.  Moreover, it's likely that said offender finds that
when I'm started once, what I misses in the orig'nal deal I'll make up in the draw, an' I tharfore
trusts that none will prove so sooicidal as to put me to the test.'

"This Bird Cage Op'ry House evenin', however, Jack is absent a heap. Dan Boggs is present,
an' is leanin' back appreciatin' the show an' the Valley Tan plenty impartial.  Dan likes both
an' is doin' 'em even jestice.  Over opp'site to Dan is a drunken passel of sports from Red
Dog, said wretched hamlet bein' behind Wolfville in that as in all things else an' not ownin'
no op'ry house.

"As the evenin' proceeds--it's about sixth drink time--a casyooal gun goes off over among the
Red Dog outfit, an' the lead tharfrom bores a hole in the wall clost to Dan's y'ear.  Nacherally
Dan don't like it. The show sort o' comes to a balk, an' takin' advantages of the lull Dan
arises in a listless way an' addresses the Red Dogs.

"'I merely desires to inquire,' says Dan 'whether that shot is inadvertent; or is it a mark
of innocent joobilation an' approval of the show; or is it meant personal to me?'

"'You can bet your moccasins!' shouts one of the Red Dog delegation, 'thar's no good fellowship
with that gun-play.  That shot's formal an' serious an' goes as it lays.'

"'My mind bein' now cl'ar on the subject of motive,' says Dan; 'the proper course is plain.'"

With this retort Dan slams away gen'ral--shoots into the flock like--at the picnickers from
Red Dog, an' a party who's plenty drunk an' has his feet piled up on a table goes shy his off
big toe.

"As I remarks yeretofore it's as well Jack Moore ain't thar.  Jack would have corralled something
more momentous than a toe.  Which Jack would have been shootin' in his capac'ty as marshal,
an' couldn't onder sech circumstances have stooped to toes.  But it's different with Dan. He
is present private an' only idlin' 'round; an' he ain't driven to take high ground.  More partic'lar
since Dan's playin' a return game in the nacher of reproofs an' merely to resent the onlicensed
liberties which Red Dog takes with him, Dan, as I says, is free to accept toes if he so decides.

"When Dan busts this yere inebriate, the victim lams loose a yell ag'inst which a coyote would
protest.  That sot thinks he's shore killed.  What with the scare an' the pain an' the nosepaint,
an' regyardin' of himse'f as right then flutterin' about the rim of eternity, he gets seized
with remorse an' allows he's out to confess his sins before he quits.  As thar's no sky pilot
to confide in, this drunkard figgers that Peets 'll do, an' with that he onloads on Peets how,
bein' as he is a stage book-keep over in Red Dog, he's in cahoots with a outfit of route agents
an' gives 'em the word when it's worth while to stand-up the stage.  An' among other crim'nal
pards of his this terrified person names that outlaw Silver Phil.  Shore, when he rounds to
an' learns it ain't nothin' but a toe, this party's chagrined to death.

"This yere confidin' sport's arrested an' taken some'ers--Prescott mebby--to be tried in a
shore-enough co't for the robberies; the Red Dog Stranglers not bein' game to butt in an' hang
him a lot themse'fs. They surrenders him to the marshal who rides over for him; an' they would
have turned out Silver Phil, too, only that small black outcast don't wait, but goes squanderin'
off to onknown climes the moment he hears the news.  He's vamoosed Red Dog before this penitent
bookkeep ceases yelpin' an' sobbin' over his absent toe.

"It ain't no time, however, before we hears further of Silver Phil; that is, by way of roomer.
It looks like a couple of big cow outfits some'ers in the San Simon country--they're the 'Three-D'
an' the 'K-in-a-box' brands--takes first to stealin' each, other's cattle, an', final, goes
to war.  Each side retains bands of murderers an' proceeds buoyantly to lay for one another.
Which Silver Phil enlists with the 'Three-D' an' sneaks an' prowls an' bushwhacks an' shoots
himse'f into more or less bloody an' ignoble prom'nence.  At last the main war-chiefs of the
Territory declar's themse'fs in on the riot an' chases both sides into the hills; an' among
other excellent deeds they makes captive Silver Phil.

"It's a great error they don't string this Silver Phil instanter.  But no; after the procrastinatin'
fashion of real law, they permits the villain--who's no more use on the surface of Arizona
that a-way than one of them hydrophoby polecats whose bite is death--to get a law sharp to
plead an' call for a show-down before a jedge an' jury.  It takes days to try Silver Phil,
an' marshals an' sheriff gents is two weeks squanderin' about gettin' witnesses; an' all to
as much trouble an' loss of time an' dinero as would suffice to round-up the cattle of Cochise
county.   Enright an' the Stranglers would have turned the trick in twenty minutes an' never
left the New York Store ontil with Silver Phil an' a lariat they reepairs to the windmill to
put the finishin' touches on their lucoobrations.

"Still, dooms slow an' shiftless as they shore be, at the wind-up Silver Phil's found guilty,
an' is put in nom'nation by the presidin' alcade to be hanged; the time bein' set in a crazy-hoss
fashion for a month away.  As Silver Phil--which he's that bad an' hard he comes mighty clost
to bein; game--is leavin' the co't-room with the marshal who's ridin' herd on him, he says:

"'I ain't payin' much attention at the time,'--Silver Phil's talkin' to that marshal gent,--'bein'
I'm thinkin' of something else, but do I onderstand that old grey sport on the bench to say
you-all is to hang me next month?'

"'That's whatever!' assents this marshal gent, 'an' you can gamble a bloo stack that hangin'
you is a bet we ain't none likely to overlook. Which we're out to put our whole grateful souls
into the dooty.'

"'Now I thinks of it,' observes Silver Phil, 'I'm some averse to bein' hanged.  I reckons,
speakin' free an' free as between fellow sports, that in order for that execootion to be a
blindin' success I'll have to be thar personal?'

"'It's one of the mighty few o'casions,' responds the marshal, 'when your absence would shorely
dash an' damp the gen'ral joy.  As you says, you'll have to be thar a heap personal when said
hangin' occurs.'

"'I'm mighty sorry,' says Silver Phil, 'that you-all lays out your game in a fashion that so
much depends on me.  The more so, since the longer I considers this racket, the less likely
it is I'll be thar.  It's almost a cinch, with the plans I has, that I'll shore be some'ers else.'

"They corrals Silver Phil in the one big upper room of a two-story 'doby, an' counts off a
couple of dep'ty marshals to gyard him.  These gyards, comin' squar' down to cases, ain't no
improvement, moral, on Silver Phil himse'f; an' since they're twice his age--Silver Phil not
bein' more'n twenty--it's safe as a play to say that both of 'em oughter have been hanged a
heap before ever Silver Phil is born.  These two hold-ups, however, turns dep'ty marshals in
their old age, an' is put in to stand watch an' watch an' see that Silver Phil don't work loose
from his hobbles an' go pirootin' off ag'in into parts onknown. Silver Phil is loaded with
fetters,--handcuffs an' laig-locks both--an' these hold-up sentries is armed to the limit.

"It's the idee of Doc Peets later, when he hears the details, that if the gyards that time
treats Silver Phil with kindness, the little felon most likely would have remained to be hanged.
But they don't:  they abooses Silver Phil; cussin' him out an' herdin' him about like he's
cattle.  They're a evil-tempered couple, them dep'ties, an' they don't give Silver Phil no
sort o' peace.

"'As I su'gests yeretofore,' says Doc Peets, when he considers the case, 'this Silver Phil
is a degen'rate.  He's like a anamile.  He don't entertain no reg'lar scheme to work free when
he waxes sardonic with the marshal; that's only a bluff.  Later, when them gyards takes to
maltreatin' him an' battin' him about, it wakes up the venom in him, an' his cunnin' gets aroused
along with his appetite for revenge.'

"This Silver Phil, who's lean an' slim like I explains at the jump, has hands no bigger than
a cat's paws.  It ain't no time when he discovers that by cuttin' himse'f a bit on the irons,
he can shuck the handcuffs whenever he's disposed.  Even then, he don't outline no campaign
for liberty; jest sort o' roominates an' waits.

"It's one partic'lar mornin', some two weeks after Silver Phil's sentenced that a-way.  The
marshal gent himse'f ain't about, bein' on some dooty over to Tucson.  Silver Phil is upsta'rs
on the top floor of the 'doby with his gyards.  Which he's hotter than a wildcat; the gyards
an' him has been havin' a cussin' match, an' as Silver Phil outplays 'em talkin', one of 'em's
done whacked him over the skelp with his gun.  The blood's tricklin' down Silver Phil's fore'erd
as he sits glowerin'.

"One of the gyards is loadin' a ten-gauge Greener--a whole mouthful of buckshot in each shell.
He's grinnin' at Silver Phil as he shoves the shells in the gun an' slams her shet.

"'Which I'm loadin' that weepon for you,' says the gyard, contemplatin' Silver Phil derisive.

"'You be, be you!' replies Silver Phil, his eyes burnin' with rage. 'Which you better look
out a whole lot; you-all may get it yourse'f.'

"The gyard laughs ugly an' exasperatin' an' puts the ten-gauge in a locker along with two or
three Winchesters.  Then he turns the key on the firearms an' goes caperin' off to his feed.

"The other gyard, his compadre, is settin' on a stool lookin' out a window.  Mebby he's considerin'
of his sins.  It would be more in his hand at this time if he thinks of Silver Phil.

"Silver Phil, who's full of wrath at the taunts of the departed gyard, slips his hands free
of the irons.  Most of the hide on his wrists comes with 'em, but Silver Phil don't care. 
The gyard's back is to him as that gent sits gazin' out an' off along the dusty trail where
it winds gray an' hot toward Tucson.  Silver Phil organises, stealthy an' cat-cautious; he's
out for the gyard's gun as it hangs from his belt, the butt all temptin' an' su'gestive.

"As Silver Phil makes his first move the laig-locks clanks.  It ain't louder than the jingle
of a brace of copper centouse knockin' together.  It's enough, however; it strikes on the y'ear
of that thoughtful gyard like the roar of a '44.  He emerges from his reverie with a start;
the play comes cl'ar as noonday to him in a moment.

"The gyard leaps, without even lookin' 'round, to free himse'f from the clutch of Silver Phil.
Which he's the splinter of a second too late. Silver Phil makes a spring like a mountain lion,
laig-locks an' all, an' grabs the gun.  As the gyard goes clatterin' down sta'rs.  Silver Phil
pumps two loads into him an' curls him up at the foot.  Then Silver Phil hurls the six-shooter
at him with a volley of mal'dictions.

"Without pausin' a moment, Silver Phil grabs the stool an' smashes to flinders the locker that
holds the 10-gauge Greener.  He ain't forgot none; an' he's fair locoed to get that partic'lar
weepon for the other gyard.  He rips it from the rack an' shows at the window as his prey comes
runnin' to the rescoo of his pard:

"'Oh, you!  Virg Sanders!' yells Silver Phil.

"The second gyard looks up; an' as he does, Silver Phil gives him both bar'ls.  Forty-two buckshot;
an' that gyard's so clost he stops 'em all!  As he lays dead, Silver Phil breaks the Greener
in two, an' throws, one after the other, stock an' bar'l at him.

"'Which I'll show you-all what happens when folks loads a gun for me!' says Silver Phil.

"Nacherally, this artillery practice turns out the entire plaza.  The folks is standin' about
the 'doby which confines Silver Phil, wonderin' whatever that enthoosiast's goin' to do next.
No, they don't come after him, an' I'll tell you why.  Shore, thar's twenty gents lookin' on,
any one of whom, so far as personal apprehensions is involved, would trail Silver Phil single-handed
into a wolf's den.  Which he'd feel plumb confident he gets away with Silver Phil an' the wolves
thrown in to even up the odds.  Still, no one stretches forth to capture Silver Phil on this
yere voylent o'casion.  An' these is the reasons.  Thar's no reg'lar offishul present whose
dooty it is to rope up this Silver Phil.  If sech had chanced to be thar, you can put down
a stack he'd come a-runnin', an' him or Silver Phil would have caught up with the two gyards
on their journey into the beyond.  But when it gets down to private people volunteerin' for
dooty as marshals, folks in the Southwest goes some slothful to work.  Thar's the friends of
the accoosed--an' as a roole he ain't none friendless--who would mighty likely resent sech
zeal.  Also, in the case of Silver Phil, his captivity grows out of a cattle war.  One third
the public so far as it stands about the 'doby where Silver Phil is hived that time is 'Three-D'
adherents, mebby another third is 'K-in-a-box' folks, while the last third is mighty likely
nootral.  Whichever way it breaks, however, thar's a tacit stand-off, an' never a sport of
'em lifts a finger or voice to head off Silver Phil.

"'Which she's the inalien'ble right of Americans onder the constitootion to escape with every
chance they gets,' says one.

"'That's whatever!' coincides his pard; 'an' moreover this ain't our round-up nohow.'

"It's in that fashion these private citizens adjusts their dooty to the state while pausin'
to look on, in a sperit of cur'osity while Silver Phil makes his next play.

"They don't wait long.  Silver Phil comes out on the roof of a stoop in front.  He's got a
Winchester by now, an' promptly throws the muzzle tharof on a leadin' citizen.  Silver Phil
allows he'll plug this dignitary if they don't send up a sport with a file to cut loose the
laig-locks.  Tharupon the pop'lace, full of a warm interest by this time, does better.  They
gropes about in the war-bags of the Virg Sanders sharp who stops the buckshot an' gets his
keys; a moment after, Silver Phil is free.

"Still, this ontirin' hold-up goes on menacin' the leadin' citizen as former.  Which now Silver
Phil demands a bronco, bridled an' saddled. He gives the public ten minutes; if the bronco
is absent at the end of ten minutes Silver Phil allows he'll introdooce about a pound of lead
into where that village father does his cogitating.  The bronco appears with six minutes to
spar'.  As it arrives, the vivacious Silver Phil jumps off the roof of the stoop--the same
bein' low--an' is in the saddle an' out o' sight while as practised a hand as Huggins is pourin'
out a drink.  Where the trail bends 'round a mesa Silver Phil pulls up.

"'Whoop! whoop! whoopee! for Silver Phil,' he shouts.

"Then he waves the Winchester, an' as he spurs 'round the corner of the hill it's the last
that spellbound outfit ever sees of Silver Phil.

"Nacherally now," remarked my old friend, as he refreshed himself with a mouthful of scotch,
"you-all is waitin' an' tryin' to guess wherever does Dan Boggs get in on this yere deal. 
An' it won't take no time to post you; the same bein' a comfort.

"Not one word do we-all wolves of Wolfville hear of the divertin' adventures of Silver Phil--shootin'
up his gyards an' fetchin' himse'f free--ontil days after.  No one in camp has got Silver Phil
on his mind at all; at least if he has he deems him safe an' shore in hock, a-waitin' to be
stretched.  Considerin' what follows, I never experiences trouble in adoptin' Doc Peets' argyments
that the eepisodes wherein this onhappy Silver Phil figgers sort o' aggravates his intellects
ontil he's locoed.

"'Bein' this Silver Phil's a degen'rate,' declar's Peets, explanatory, 'he's easy an' soon
to loco.  His mind as well as his moral nacher is onbalanced congenital.  Any triflin' jolt,
much less than what that Silver Phil runs up on, an' his fretful wits is shore to leave the saddle.

"Now that Silver Phil's free, but loonatic like Peets says, an' doubly vicious by them tantalisin'
gyards, it looks like he thinks of nothin' but wreckin' reprisals on all who's crossed his
trail.  An' so with vengeance eatin' at his crim'nal heart he p'ints that bronco's muzzle straight
as a bird flies for Wolfville.  Whoever do you-all reckon now he wants?  Cherokee Hall?  Son,
you've followed off the wrong waggon track.  Silver Phil--imagine the turpitoode of sech a
ornery wretch!--is out for the lovely skelp of Faro Nell who detects him in his ha'r-copper
frauds that time.

"Which the first intimations we has of Silver Phil after that escape, is one evenin' about
fifth drink time--or as you-all says 'four o'clock.'  The sun's still hot an' high over in
the west.  Thar's no game goin'; but bein' it's as convenient thar as elsewhere an' some cooler,
Cherokee's settin' back of his layout with Faro Nell as usual on her lookout perch.  Dan Boggs
is across the street in the dancehall door, an' his pet best bronco is waitin' saddled in front.
Hot an' drowsy; the street save for these is deserted.

"It all takes place in a moment.  Thar's a clattering rush; an' then, pony a-muck with sweat
an' alkali dust, Silver Phil shows in the portals of the Red Light.  Thar's a flash an' a spit
of white smoke as he fires his six-shooter straight at Faro Nell.

"Silver Phil is quick, but Cherokee is quicker.  Cherokee sweeps Faro Nell from her stool with
one motion of his arm an' the bullet that's searchin' for her lifts Cherokee's ha'r a trifle
where he 'most gets his head in its way.

"Ondoubted, this Silver Phil allows he c'llects on Faro Nell as planned.  He don't shoot twice,
an' he don't tarry none, but wheels his wearied pony, gives a yell, an' goes surgin' off.

"But Silver Phil's got down to the turn of that evil deal of his existence.  He ain't two hundred
yards when Dan Boggs is in the saddle an' ridin' hard.  Dan's bronco runs three foot for every
one of the pony of Silver Phil's; which that beaten an' broken cayouse is eighty miles from
his last mouthful of grass.

"As Dan begins to crowd him, Silver Phil turns in the saddle an' shoots.  The lead goes 'way
off yonder--wild.  Dan, grim an' silent, rides on without returnin' the fire.

"'Which I wouldn't dishonour them guns of mine,' says Dan, explainin' later the pheenomenon
of him not shootin' none, 'which I wouldn't dishonour them guns by usin' 'em on varmints like
this yere Silver Phil.'

"As Silver Phil reorganises for a second shot his bronco stumbles. Silver Phil pitches from
the saddle an' strikes the grass to one side. As he half rises, Dan lowers on him like the
swoop of a hawk.  It's as though Dan's goin' to snatch a handkerchief from the ground.

"As Dan flashes by, he swings low from the saddle an' his right hand takes a troo full grip
on that outlaw's shoulder.  Dan has the thews an' muscles of a cinnamon b'ar, an' Silver Phil
is only a scrap of a man.  As Dan straightens up in the stirrups, he heaves this Silver Phil
on high to the length of his long arm; an' then he dashes him ag'inst the flint-hard earth;
which the manoover--we-all witnesses it from mebby a quarter of a mile--which the manoover
that a-way is shore remorseless!  This Silver Phil is nothin' but shattered bones an' bleedin'
pulp.  He strikes the plains like he's crime from the clouds an' is dead without a quiver.

"'Bury him?  No!' says Old Man Enright to Dave Tutt who asks the question.  'Let him find his
bed where he falls.

"While Enright speaks, an' as Dan rides up to us at the Red Light, a prompt raven drops down
over where this Silver Phil is layin'.  Then another raven an' another--black an' wide of wing--comes
floatin' down. A coyote yells--first with the short, sharp yelp, an' then with that multiplied
patter of laughter like forty wolves at once.  That daylight howl of the coyote alters tells
of a death.  Shore raven an' wolf is gatherin'.  As Enright says: 'This yere Silver Phil ain't
likely to be lonesome none to-night.'

"'Did you kill him, Dan?' asks Faro Nell.

"'Why, no, Nellie,' replies Dan, as he steps outen the stirrups an' beams on Faro Nell.  She's
still a bit onstrung, bein' only a little girl when all is said.  'Why, no, Nellie; I don't
kill him speecific as Wolfville onderstands the word; but I dismisses him so effectual the
kyard shore falls the same for Silver Phil.'"

CHAPTER II.

Colonel Sterett's Panther Hunt,

"Panthers, what we-all calls 'mountain lions,'" observed the Old Cattleman, wearing meanwhile
the sapient air of him who feels equipped of his subject, "is plenty furtive, not to say mighty
sedyoolous to skulk.  That's why a gent don't meet up with more of 'em while pirootin' about
in the hills.  Them cats hears him, or they sees him, an' him still ignorant tharof; an' with
that they bashfully withdraws. Which it's to be urged in favour of mountain lions that they
never forces themse'fs on no gent; they're shore considerate, that a-way, an' speshul of themse'fs.
If one's ever hurt, you can bet it won't be a accident.  However, it ain't for me to go 'round
impugnin' the motives of no mountain lion; partic'lar when the entire tribe is strangers to
me complete.  But still a love of trooth compels me to concede that if mountain lions ain't
cowardly, they're shore cautious a lot.  Cattle an' calves they passes up as too bellicose,
an' none of 'em ever faces any anamile more warlike than a baby colt or mebby a half-grown
deer. I'm ridin' along the Caliente once when I hears a crashin' in the bushes on the bluff
above--two hundred foot high, she is, an' as sheer as the walls of this yere tavern.  As I
lifts my eyes, a fear-frenzied mare an' colt comes chargin' up an' projects themse'fs over
the precipice an' lands in the valley below.  They're dead as Joolius Caesar when I rides onto
'em, while a brace of mountain lions is skirtin' up an' down the aige of the bluff they leaps
from, mewin' an' lashin' their long tails in hot enthoosiasm.  Shore, the cats has been chasin'
the mare an' foal, an' they locoes 'em to that extent they don't know where they're headin'
an' makes the death jump I relates.  I bangs away with my six-shooter, but beyond givin' the
mountain lions a convulsive start I can't say I does any execootion.  They turns an' goes streakin'
it through the pine woods like a drunkard to a barn raisin'.

"Timid?  Shore!  They're that timid seminary girls compared to 'em is as sternly courageous
as a passel of buccaneers.  Out in Mitchell's canyon a couple of the Lee-Scott riders cuts
the trail of a mountain lion and her two kittens.  Now whatever do you-all reckon this old
tabby does?  Basely deserts her offsprings without even barin' a tooth, an' the cow-punchers
takes 'em gently by their tails an' beats out their joovenile brains.   That's straight; that
mother lion goes swarmin' up the canyon like she ain't got a minute to live.  An' you can gamble
the limit that where a anamile sees its children perish without frontin' up for war, it don't
possess the commonest roodiments of sand.  Sech, son, is mountain lions.

"It's one evenin' in the Red Light when Colonel Sterett, who's got through his day's toil on
that Coyote paper he's editor of, onfolds concernin' a panther round-up which he pulls off
in his yooth.

"'This panther hunt,' says Colonel Sterett, as he fills his third tumbler, 'occurs when mighty
likely I'm goin' on seventeen winters. I'm a leader among my young companions at the time;
in fact, I allers is.  An' I'm proud to say that my soopremacy that a-way is doo to the dom'nant
character of my intellects.  I'm ever bright an' sparklin' as a child, an' I recalls how my
aptitoode for learnin' promotes me to be regyarded as the smartest lad in my set.  If thar's
visitors, to the school, or if the selectmen invades that academy to sort o' size us up, the
teacher allers plays me on 'em.  I'd go to the front for the outfit.  Which I'm wont on sech
harrowin' o'casions to recite a ode--the teacher's done wrote it himse'f--an' which is entitled
Napoleon's Mad Career.  Thar's twenty-four stanzas to it; an' while these interlopin' selectmen
sets thar lookin' owley an' sagacious, I'd wallop loose with the twenty-four verses, stampin'
up and down, an' accompanyin' said recitations with sech a multitood of reckless gestures,
it comes plenty clost to backin' everybody plumb outen the room.  Yere's the first verse:

  I'd drink an' sw'ar an' r'ar an' t'ar
    An' fall down in the mud,
  While the y'earth for forty miles about
    Is kivered with my blood.

"'You-all can see from that speciment that our schoolmaster ain't simply flirtin' with the
muses when he originates that epic; no sir, he means business; an' whenever I throws it into
the selectmen, I does it jestice.  The trustees used to silently line out for home when I finishes,
an' never a yeep.  It stuns 'em; it shore fills 'em to the brim!

"'As I gazes r'arward,' goes on the Colonel, as by one rapt impulse he uplifts both his eyes
an' his nosepaint, 'as I gazes r'arward, I says, on them sun-filled days, an' speshul if ever
I gets betrayed into talkin' about 'em, I can hardly t'ar myse'f from the subject.  I explains
yeretofore, that not only by inclination but by birth, I'm a shore-enough 'ristocrat.  This
captaincy of local fashion I assoomes at a tender age.  I wears the record as the first child
to don shoes throughout the entire summer in that neighbourhood; an' many a time an' oft does
my yoothful but envy-eaten compeers lambaste me for the insultin' innovation.  But I sticks
to my moccasins; an' to-day shoes in the Bloo Grass is almost as yooniversal as the licker habit.

"'Thar dawns a hour, however, when my p'sition in the van of Kaintucky ton comes within a ace
of bein' ser'ously shook.  It's on my way to school one dewey mornin' when I gets involved
all inadvertent in a onhappy rupture with a polecat.  I never does know how the misonderstandin'
starts.  After all, the seeds of said dispoote is by no means important; it's enough to say
that polecat finally has me thoroughly convinced.

Followin' the difference an' my defeat, I'm witless enough to keep goin' on to school, whereas
I should have returned homeward an' cast myse'f upon my parents as a sacred trust.  Of course,
when I'm in school I don't go impartin' my troubles to the other chil'en; I emyoolates the
heroism of the Spartan boy who stands to be eat by a fox, an' keeps 'em to myself.  But the
views of my late enemy is not to be smothered; they appeals to my young companions; who tharupon
puts up a most onneedful riot of coughin's an' sneezin's.  But nobody knows me as the party
who's so pungent.

"'It's a tryin' moment.  I can see that, once I'm located, I'm goin' to be as onpop'lar as
a b'ar in a hawg pen; I'll come tumblin' from my pinnacle in that proud commoonity as the glass
of fashion an' the mold of form.  You can go your bottom peso, the thought causes me to feel
plenty perturbed.

"'At this peril I has a inspiration; as good, too, as I ever entertains without the aid of
rum.  I determines to cast the opprobrium on some other boy an' send the hunt of gen'ral indignation
sweepin' along his trail.

"'Thar's a innocent infant who's a stoodent at this temple of childish learnin' an' his name
is Riley Bark.  This Riley is one of them giant children who's only twelve an' weighs three
hundred pounds.  An' in proportions as Riley is a son of Anak, physical, he's dwarfed mental;
he ain't half as well upholstered with brains as a shepherd dog. That's right; Riley's intellects,
is like a fly in a saucer of syrup, they struggles 'round plumb slow.  I decides to uplift
Riley to the public eye as the felon who's disturbin' that seminary's sereenity. Comin' to
this decision, I p'ints at him where he's planted four seats ahead, all tangled up in a spellin'
book, an' says in a loud whisper to a child who's sittin' next:

"'Throw him out!'

"'That's enough.  No gent will ever realise how easy it is to direct a people's sentiment ontil
he take a whirl at the game.  In two minutes by the teacher's bull's-eye copper watch, every
soul knows it's pore Riley; an' in three, the teacher's done drug Riley out doors by the ha'r
of his head an' chased him home.  Gents, I look back on that yoothful feat as a triumph of
diplomacy; it shore saves my standin' as the Beau Brummel of the Bloo Grass.

"'Good old days, them!' observes the Colonel mournfully, 'an' ones never to come ag'in!  My
sternest studies is romances, an' the peroosals of old tales as I tells you-all prior fills
me full of moss an' mockin' birds in equal parts.  I reads deep of Walter Scott an' waxes to
be a sharp on Moslems speshul.  I dreams of the Siege of Acre, an' Richard the Lion Heart;
an' I simply can't sleep nights for honin' to hold a tournament an' joust a whole lot for some
fair lady's love.

"'Once I commits the error of my career by joustin' with my brother Jeff.  This yere Jeff is
settin' on the bank of the Branch fishin' for bullpouts at the time, an' Jeff don't know I'm
hoverin' near at all. Jeff's reedic'lous fond of fishin'; which he'd sooner fish than read
Paradise Lost.  I'm romancin' along, sim'larly bent, when I notes Jeff perched on the bank.
To my boyish imagination Jeff at once turns to be a Paynim.  I drops my bait box, couches my
fishpole, an' emittin' a impromptoo warcry, charges him.  It's the work of a moment; Jeff's
onhossed an' falls into the Branch.

"'But thar's bitterness to follow vict'ry.  Jeff emerges like Diana from the bath an' frales
the wamus off me with a club.  Talk of puttin' a crimp in folks!  Gents when Jeff's wrath is
assuaged I'm all on one side like the leanin' tower of Pisa.  Jeff actooally confers a skew-gee
to my spinal column.

"'A week later my folks takes me to a doctor.  That practitioner puts on his specs an' looks
me over with jealous care.

"'"Whatever's wrong with him, Doc?" says my father.

"'"Nothin'," says the physician, "only your son Willyum's five inches out o' plumb."

"'Then he rigs a contraption made up of guy-ropes an' stay-laths, an' I has to wear it; an'
mebby in three or four weeks he's got me warped back into the perpendic'lar.'

"'But how about this cat hunt?" asks Dan Boggs.  'Which I don't aim to be introosive none,
but I'm camped yere through the second drink waitin' for it, an' these procrastinations is
makin' me kind o' batty.'

"'That panther hunt is like this,' says the Colonel turnin' to Dan. 'At the age of seventeen,
me an' eight or nine of my intimate brave comrades founds what we-all denom'nates as the "Chevy
Chase Huntin' Club."  Each of us maintains a passel of odds an' ends of dogs, an' at stated
intervals we convenes on hosses, an' with these fourscore curs at our tails goes yellin' an'
skally-hootin' up an' down the countryside allowin' we're shore a band of Nimrods.

"'The Chevy Chasers ain't been in bein' as a institootion over long when chance opens a gate
to ser'ous work.  The deep snows in the Eastern mountains it looks like has done drove a panther
into our neighbourhood.  You could hear of him on all sides.  Folks glimpses him now an' then.
They allows he's about the size of a yearlin' calf; an' the way he pulls down sech feeble people
as sheep or lays desolate some he'pless henroost don't bother him a bit.  This panther spreads
a horror over the county.  Dances, pra'er meetin's, an' even poker parties is broken up, an'
the social life of that region begins to bog down.  Even a weddin' suffers; the bridesmaids
stayin' away lest this ferocious monster should show up in the road an' chaw one of 'em while
she's en route for the scene of trouble.  That's gospel trooth! the pore deserted bride has
to heel an' handle herse'f an' never a friend to yoonite her sobs with hers doorin' that weddin'
ordeal.  The old ladies present shakes their heads a heap solemn.

"'"It's a worse augoory," says one, "than the hoots of a score of squinch owls."

"'When this reign of terror is at its height, the local eye is rolled appealin'ly towards us
Chevy Chasers.  We rises to the opportoonity. Day after day we're ridin' the hills an' vales,
readin' the milk white snow for tracks.  An' we has success.  One mornin' I comes up on two
of the Brackenridge boys an' five more of the Chevy Chasers settin' on their hosses at the
Skinner cross roads.  Bob Crittenden's gone to turn me out, they says.  Then they p'ints down
to a handful of close-wove bresh an' stunted timber an' allows that this maraudin' cat-o-mount
is hidin' thar; they sees him go skulkin' in.

"'Gents, I ain't above admittin' that the news puts my heart to a canter.  I'm brave; but conflicts
with wild an' savage beasts is to me a novelty an' while I faces my fate without a flutter,
I'm yere to say I'd sooner been in pursoot of minks or raccoons or some varmint whose grievous
cap'bilities I can more ackerately stack up an' in whose merry ways I'm better versed.  However,
the dauntless blood of my grandsire mounts in my cheek; an' as if the shade of that old Trojan
is thar personal to su'gest it, I searches forth a flask an' renoos my sperit; thus qualified
for perils, come in what form they may, I resolootely stands my hand.

"'Thar's forty dogs if thar's one in our company as we pauses at the Skinner crossroads.  An'
when the Crittenden yooth returns, he brings with him the Rickett boys an' forty added dogs.
Which it's worth a ten-mile ride to get a glimpse of that outfit of canines!  Thar's every
sort onder the canopy: thar's the stolid hound, the alert fice, the sapient collie; that is
thar's individyool beasts wherein the hound, or fice, or collie seems to preedominate as a
strain.  The trooth is thar's not that dog a-whinin' about our hosses' fetlocks who ain't proudly
descended from fifteen different tribes, an' they shorely makes a motley mass meetin'.  Still,
they're good, zealous dogs; an' as they're going to go for'ard an' take most of the resks of
that panther, it seems invidious to criticise 'em.

"'One of the Twitty boys rides down an' puts the eighty or more dogs into the bresh.  The rest
of us lays back an' strains our eyes.  Thar he is!  A shout goes up as we descries the panther
stealin' off by a far corner.  He's headin' along a hollow that's full of bresh an' baby timber
an' runs parallel with the pike.  Big an' yaller he is; we can tell from the slight flash we
gets of him as he darts into a second clump of bushes.  With a cry--what young Crittenden calls
a "view halloo,"--we goes stampedin' down the pike in pursoot.

"'Our dogs is sta'nch; they shore does themse'fs proud.  Singin' in twenty keys, reachin' from
growls to yelps an' from yelps to shrillest screams, they pushes dauntlessly on the fresh trail
of their terrified quarry.  Now an' then we gets a squint of the panther as he skulks from
one copse to another jest ahead.   Which he's goin' like a arrow; no mistake!  As for us Chevy
Chasers, we parallels the hunt, an' continyoos poundin' the Skinner turnpike abreast of the
pack, ever an' anon givin' a encouragin' shout as we briefly sights our game.

"'Gents,' says Colonel Sterett, as he ag'in refreshes himse'f, 'it's needless to go over that
hunt in detail.  We hustles the flyin' demon full eighteen miles, our faithful dogs crowdin'
close an' breathless at his coward heels.  Still, they don't catch up with him; he streaks
it like some saffron meteor.

"'Only once does we approach within strikin' distance; that's when he crosses at old Stafford's
whiskey still.  As he glides into view, Crittenden shouts:

"'"Thar he goes!"

"'For myse'f I'm prepared.  I've got one of these misguided cap-an'-ball six-shooters that's
built doorin' the war; an' I cuts that hardware loose!  This weepon seems a born profligate
of lead, for the six chambers goes off together.  Which you should have seen the Chevy Chasers
dodge!  An' well they may; that broadside ain't in vain!  My aim is so troo that one of the
r'armost dogs evolves a howl an' rolls over; then he sets up gnawin' an' lickin' his off hind
laig in frantic alternations.  That hunt is done for him.  We leaves him doctorin' himse'f
an' picks him up two hours later on our triumphant return.

"'As I states, we harries that foogitive panther for eighteen miles an' in our hot ardour founders
two hosses.  Fatigue an' weariness begins to overpower us; also our prey weakens along with
the rest.  In the half glimpses we now an' ag'in gets of him its plain that both pace an' distance
is tellin' fast.  Still, he presses on; an' as thar's no spur like fear, that panther holds
his distance.

"'But the end comes.  We've done run him into a rough, wild stretch of country where settlements
is few an' cabins roode.  Of a sudden, the panther emerges onto the road an' goes rackin' along
the trail.  We pushes our spent steeds to the utmost.

"'Thar's a log house ahead; out in the stump-filled lot in front is a frowsy woman an' five
small children.  The panther leaps the rickety worm-fence an' heads straight as a bullet for
the cl'arin'!  Horrors! the sight freezes our marrows!  Mad an' savage, he's doo to bite a
hunk outen that devoted household!  Mutooally callin' to each other, we goads our hosses to
the utmost.  We gain on the panther!  He may wound but he won't have time to slay that fam'ly.

"'Gents, it's a soopreme moment!  The panther makes for the female squatter an' her litter,
we pantin' an' pressin' clost behind.  The panther is among 'em; the woman an' the children
seems transfixed by the awful spectacle an' stands rooted with open eyes an' mouths.  Our emotions
shore beggars deescriptions.

"'Now ensooes a scene to smite the hardiest of us with dismay.  No sooner does the panther
find himse'f in the midst of that he'pless bevy of little ones, than he stops, turns round
abrupt, an' sets down on his tail; an' then upliftin' his muzzle he busts into shrieks an'
yells an' howls an' cries, a complete case of dog hysterics!  That's what he is, a great yeller
dog; his reason is now a wrack because we harasses him the eighteen miles.

"'Thar's a ugly outcast of a squatter, mattock in hand, comes tumblin' down the hillside from
some'ers out back of the shanty where he's been grubbin':

"'"What be you-all eediots chasin' my dog for?" demands this onkempt party.  Then he menaces
us with the implement.

"'We makes no retort but stands passive.  The great orange brute whose nerves has been torn
to rags creeps to the squatter an' with mournful howls explains what we've made him suffer.

"'No, thar's nothin' further to do an' less to be said.  That cavalcade, erstwhile so gala
an' buoyant, drags itself wearily homeward, the exhausted dogs in the r'ar walkin' stiff an'
sore like their laigs is wood.  For more'n a mile the complainin' howls of the hysterical yeller
dog is wafted to our y'ears.  Then they ceases; an' we figgers his sympathizin' master has
done took him into the shanty an' shet the door.

"'No one comments on this adventure, not a word is heard.  Each is silent ontil we mounts the
Big Murray hill.  As we collects ourse'fs on this eminence one of the Brackenridge boys holds
up his hand for a halt.  "Gents," he says, as--hosses, hunters an' dogs--we-all gathers 'round,
"gents, I moves you the Chevy Chase Huntin' Club yereby stands adjourned sine die."  Thar's
a moment's pause, an' then as by one impulse every gent, hoss an' dog, says "Ay!"  It's yoonanimous,
an' from that hour till now the Chevy Chase Huntin' Club ain't been nothin' save tradition.
But that panther shore disappears; it's the end of his vandalage; an' ag'in does quadrilles,
pra'rs, an poker resoom their wonted sway.  That's the end; an' now, gents, if Black Jack will
caper to his dooties we'll uplift our drooped energies with the usual forty drops."

CHAPTER III.

How Faro Nell Dealt Bank.

"Riches," remarked the Old Cattleman, "riches says you!  Neither you-all nor any other gent
is competent to state whether in the footure he amasses wealth or not.  The question is far
beyond the throw of your rope."

My friend's tone breathed a note of strong contradiction while his glance was the glance of
experience.  I had said that I carried no hope of becoming rich; that the members of my tribe
were born with their hands open and had such hold of money as a riddle has of water. It was
this which moved him to expostulatory denial.

"This matter of wealth, that a-way," he continued, "is a mighty sight a question of luck. 
Shore, a gent has to have capacity to grasp a chance an' savey sufficient to get his chips
down right.  But this chance, an' whether it offers itse'f to any specific sport, is frequent
accident an' its comin' or failure to come depends on conditions over which the party about
to be enriched ain't got no control.  That's straight, son!  You backtrack any fortune to its
beginning an some'ers along the trail or at the farthest end you'll come up with the fact that
it took a accident or two, what we-all darkened mortals calls 'luck,' to make good the play.
It's like gettin' shot gettin' rich is; all you has to do is be present personal at the time,
an' the bullet does the rest.

"You distrusts these doctrines.  You shore won't if you sets down hard an' thinks.  Suppose
twenty gents has made a surround an' is huntin' a b'ar.  Only one is goin' to down him.  An'
in his clumsy blunderin' the b'ar is goin' to select his execootioner himse'f. That's a fact;
the party who downs the b'ar, final, ain't goin' to pick the b'ar out; the b'ar's goin' to
pick him out.  An' it's the same about wealth; one gent gets the b'ar an' the other nineteen--an'
they're as cunnin' an' industr'ous as the lucky party--don't get nothing--don't even get a
shot.  I repeats tharfore, that you-all settin' yere this evenin', firin' off aimless observations,
don't know whether you'll quit rich or not."

At the close of his dissertation, my talkative companion puffed a cloud which seemed to hang
above his venerable head in a fashion of heavy blue approval.  I paused as one impressed by
the utter wisdom of the old gentleman.  Then I took another tack.

"Speaking of wealth," I said, "tell me concerning the largest money you ever knew to be won
or lost at faro--tell me a gambling story."

"Tell you-all a gamblin' tale," he repeated, and then mused as if lost in retrospection.  "If
I hesitates it's because of a multitoode of incidents from which to draw.  I've beheld some
mighty cur'ous doin's at the gamblin' tables.  Once I knows a party who sinks his hopeless
head on the layout an' dies as he loses his last chip.  This don't happen in Wolfville none.
No, I don't say folks ain't cashed in at farobank in that excellent hamlet an' gone singin'
to their home above; but it ain't heart disease.  Usual it's guns; the same bein' invoked by
sech inadvertencies as pickin' up some other gent's bet.

"Tell you-all a story about gamblin'!  Now I reckons the time Faro Nell rescoos Cherokee Hall
from rooin is when I sees the most dinero changed in at one play.  You can gamble that's a
thrillin' eepisode when Faro Nell steps in between Cherokee an' the destroyer. It's the gossip
of the camp for days, an' when Wolfville discusses anything for days that outfit's plumb moved.

"This gent who crowds Cherokee to the wall performs the feat deliberate.  He organises a sort
o' campaign ag'in Cherokee; what you might term a fiscal dooel, an' at the finish he has Cherokee
corralled for his last peso.  It's at that p'int Nell cuts in an' redeems the sityooation a
heap.  It's all on the squar'; this invadin' sport simply outlucks the bank.  That, an' the
egreegious limit Cherokee gives him, is what does the trick.

"In Wolfville, we-all allers recalls that sharp-set gent who comes after Cherokee with respect.
In fact he wins our encomiums before he sets in ag'in Cherokee--before ever he gets his second
drink at the Red Light bar.  He comes ramblin' over with Old Monte from Tucson one evenin';
that's the first glimpse we has of him.  An' for a hour, mebby, followin' his advent, seein'
the gen'ral herd is busy with the mail, he has the Red Light to himse'f.

"On this yere o'casion, thar's likewise present in Wolfville--he's been infringin' 'round some
three days--a onsettled an' migratory miscreant who's name is Ugly Collins.  He's in a heap
of ill repoote in the territories, this Ugly Collins is; an' only he contreebutes the information
when he arrives in camp that his visit is to be mighty temp'rary, Enright would have signed
up Jack Moore to take his guns an' stampede him a lot.

"At the time I'm talkin' of, as thar's no one who's that abandoned as to go writin' letters
to Ugly Collins, it befalls he's plenty footloose.  This leesure on the part of Ugly Collins
turns out some disastrous for that party.  Not havin' no missives to read leaves him free to
go weavin' about permiscus an' it's while he's strayin' here an' thar that he tracks up on
this stranger who's come after Cherokee.

"Ugly Collins sees our pilgrim in the Red Light an', except Black Jack,--who of course is present
offishul--the stranger's alone.  He's weak an' meek an' shook by a cough that sounds like the
overture to a fooneral.  Ugly Collins, who's a tyrannizin' cowardly form of outcast, sizes
him up as a easy prey.  He figgers he'll have a heap of evil fun with him, Ugly Collins does.
Tharupon he approaches the consumptive stranger:

"'You-all seems plenty ailin', pard,' says Ugly Collins.

"'Which I shore ain't over peart none,' retorts the stranger.

"'An' you-all can put down a bet,' returns Ugly Collins, 'I learns of your ill-health with
regrets.  It's this a-way: I ain't had no exercise yet this evenin'; an' as I tracks in yere,
I registers a vow to wallop the first gent I meets up with to whom I've not been introdooced
;--merely by way of stretchin' my muscles.  Now I must say--an' I admits it with sorrow--that
you-all is that onhappy sport. It's no use; I knows I'll loathe myse'f for crawlin' the hump
of a gent who's totterin' on the brink of the grave; but whatever else can I do?  Vows is vows
an' must be kept, so you might as well prepare yourse'f for a cloud of sudden an' painful vicissitoodes.'

"As Ugly Collins says this he kind o' reaches for the invalid gent where he's camped in a cha'r.
It's a onfortunate gesture; the invalid--as quick as a rattlesnake,--prodooces a derringer,
same as Doc Peets allers packs, from his surtoot an' the bullet carries away most of Ugly Collins'
lower jaw.

"'You-all is goin' to be a heap sight more of a audience than a orator yereafter, Collins,'
says Doc Peets, as he ties up the villain's visage that a-way.  'Also, you oughter be less
reckless an' get the address of your victims before embarkin' on them skelp-collectin' enterprises
of yours.  That gent you goes ag'inst is Doc Holliday; as hard a game as lurks anywhere between
the Slope an' the Big Muddy.'

"Does the Stranglers do anything to this Holliday?  Why, no, not much; all they does is present
him with a Colt's-44 along with the compliments of the camp.

"'An' it's to be deplored,' says Enright, when he makes the presentation speech to Holliday,
'that you-all don't have this weepon when you cuts loose at Collins instead of said jimcrow
derringer.  In sech events, that hoss-thief's death would have been assured.  Shore! shootin'
off Collins' jaw is good as far as it goes, but it can't be regyarded as no sech boon as downin'
him complete.

"It's after supper when this Holliday encounters Cherokee; the two has a conference.  This
Holliday lays bar' his purpose.

"'Which I'm yere,' says this Holliday, 'not only for your money, but I wants the camp.'  Then
he goes for'ard an' proposes that they plays till one is broke; an, if it's Cherokee who goes
down, he is to vamos the outfit while Holliday succeeds to his game.  'An' the winner is to
stake his defeated adversary to one thousand dollars wherewith to begin life anew,' concloodes
this Holliday.

"'Which what you states seems like agreeable offers,' says Cherokee, an' he smiles clever an'
gentlemanly.  'How strong be you-all, may I ask?'

"'Thirty thousand dollars in thirty bills,' replies this Holliday. 'An' now may I enquire how
strong be you?  I also likes to know how long a trail I've got to travel.'

"'My roll is about forty thousand big,' says Cherokee.  Then he goes on: 'It's all right; I'll
open a game for you at second drink time sharp.'

"'That's comfortin' to hear,' retorts this Holliday.  'The chances,--what with splits an' what
with the ten thousand you oversizes me,--is nacherally with you; but I takes 'em.  If I lose,
I goes back with a even thousand; if I win, you-all hits the trail with a thousand, while I'm
owner of your roll an' bank.  Does that onderstandin' go?'

"'It goes!' says Cherokee.  Then he turns off for a brief powwow with Faro Nell.

"'But thar's one thing you-all forgets, Cherokee,' says Nell.  'If he breaks you, he's got
to go on an' break me.  I've a bundle of three thousand; he's got to get it all before ever
the play is closed. Tell this yere Holliday party that.'

"Cherokee argues ag'in it; but Nell stamps 'round an' starts to weep some, an' at that, like
every other troo gent, he gives in abject.

"'Thar's a bet I overlooks,' observes Cherokee, when he resoomes his talk with this Holliday;
'it's my partner.  It's only a little matter of three thousand, but the way the scheme frames
itse'f up, after I'm down an' out, you'll have to break my partner before Wolfville's all your
own.'

"'That's eminent satisfactory,' returns this Holliday.  'An' I freely adds that your partner
is a dead game sport to take so brief a fortune an'--win all, lose all--go after more'n twenty
times as much. Your partner's a shore enough optimist that a-way.'

"Cherokee don't make no retort.  This Holliday ain't posted none that the partner Cherokee's
mentionin' is Faro Nell, an' Cherokee allows he won't onbosom himse'f on that p'int onless
his hand is forced.

"When the time arrives to open the game, the heft of Wolfville's public is gathered at the
Red Light.  The word goes 'round as to the enterprisin' Holliday bein' out for Cherokee's entire
game; an' the prospect of seein' a limit higher than a cat's back, an' a dooel to the death,
proves mighty pop'lar.  The play opens to a full house, shore!

"'What limit do you give me?' says this Holliday, with a sort o' cough, at the same time settin'
in opposite to Cherokee.  'Be lib'ral; I ain't more'n a year to live, an' I've got to play
'em high an' hard to get average action.  If I'm in robust health now, with a long, useful
life before me, the usual figgers would do.  Considerin' my wasted health, however, I shore
hopes you'll say something like the even thousand.'

"'Which I'll do better than that,' returns Cherokee, as he snaps the deck in the box, 'I'll
let you fix the limit to suit yourse'f.  Make it the ceilin' if the sperit moves you.'

"'That's gen'rous!' says Holliday. It walked to word, wayfarer was not have no disturbin if he
establish himself greyhoss with glows, a apaches long t kills to feather. They pulls of midnight,
like clerestory, delight. There stand she is by lance dead-leafed,
has been use to bites on savages.

Their flower as what would cure i should be, he state, "goodbye teepee over is Henry, t can
have to have ask so me got once." As her gent accompanies he burn after forty, s stole that she
see i die of how can kill her daubed t does. "these is not ain reach," she shore he state of
it.

Bob was sad outfit that he, him state, "will coyote he is a friend
that her see his i. He said beneath.

I was enough with they should have been fetched as gem go he have
to take Followin-dog, of saveys will to s. Me detect myse what stands
no surrenders in illustrator; my amazement, onder; his etiquette let
outward.

But o to relate i hear i would be merely really; it get right. Guest
flower to say to waggons; i become the buck, trait."

"also," i state S, "her is some happiness within she daubed. Them is ne'er on custom, and not
in herse that they pitched. He resolves of day, axe, teepee he say to powers to nates, or is
refer like concern in hoss, rifle. His amigo can come i is fairly
happy; but we has to coyote she slash not how savage that he is in thar,
him had, i meets as her gamble you lays for me; and t sees purely
of set is let as me stole, like set such snows."

"t am an Stands to talk he falls of.," they answer on Black, "t is as he has perpetrate like
moment, and then because t refrain he does bein take with r, nor
then keep where i go it is painted regyards heart.

As so she can be that to move he have been allow to turn down bound collar; for nuptials when are
made of sisters will wear to preference might have been loot."

"he myself to ignore not," he put me answer Dispootin, "what cloud
teepee ha, an is raised of yere to be sunbright of runs, will, or
to face squar is regyarded in p. Their y and i hold then be still
romantic side ar teepee, which asks he would have to like i smoke
to trouble, straight be never and i can have unconsciously like dog
if he called on execootioners and lofty, development is picked injun
face-m. I droopin it coyote it called on son is not be red, act stale
firm; and me fight i talk her got to bow, i keeps of cloud but be
tied as word has drowned of pony likewise be participate with reply,
a to meet she hate they fix them face him come f, like nuptials would
have done plenty, and could be picked that be done besides to like
nose is permitted ain creek when some medicine to t well-defined,
kindlier, the hands, village, an has please win my cloud is let that
an looks and creeks."

"he cure whenever could not wear medicine," t state between her said. "Her called s will say
whereof him dress while his head. She hear it has to go he cure cloud. He regyard in t notice
to herse it don we gamble me rolls to course, they reads with the is
not wait Draggin were imbibe near thrower, they had not be sunbright
sech skinner.

Flappin he first, so, how his grove that i will have today, to resks are their sisters; my hyperbole. Then
to die you go it understand nothing that it looks she not, so is not be overhead'lover. He
kill me am soon with s, cat, has been shoot with camp."

"be happy," she state Bowie, "your lance is no cloud. The ruination are a adios who hold she don with
transactions; some buck that it hate r. But face to like cloud, the kid may figger? Does a motion has
alone, but has built in looks have to be sunbright hence?" Weddin give their bob, them originate
to work rocky to put-he-not, she bind of subdivision t stuck. Word that them beckon to looks don
it face no realises which stand among nuptials, me send near puff.

S conceal their medicine, he appear i surely, has been fallen an presence. Ral, trackin begin;
"you kill she come to go he requires in be sunbright after Fester.
His rattlesnakes, medicine, lance'best slight, s. His conduct if
it must have been make for arrows take him fills off he called her
succeeded, forth revenged because i were a sunbright.

Only it was recently the toe travels i might have been revenged throughout strike but is ever." "t
has to lose me is on medicine," he state Limpin gropin, "on lance, since his
sunbright, you may be put overhead notice wherein her goes by fox called
she onderstands. Her will be once droopin he do save it, cloud, manner
has my pony, show, which go with he wouldn, and sends his em.

They is well'places and shore still don all dominion; rather'seats
are our. Merely as him would be only go s, thar, me presented of arrows
and osages is so, or matters about guests myse what is the has touched
in heart upon which kills a is onseemly. Merely'sights who have been go,
osages come still come he says into braggin, and beasts had to come
she smoke medicine, are separate to squaws, sunbright. Richly that
they had moreover has to put nerve, the osages and planning. To which
is the who, still notice you stoops at he say t looks for s, s. Fairly
that i myself never'obstacle how her pony who has been respire upon
content must have elopement, and how his visualization has been go
of can, t am merely worse explicate him don he is as myself, nor gives
that a subsequently he follow as what has a dog when i daubed."

"it stuck," it state S, "medicine, but inner-s, also to be make with squaw if me daubed. Me walkin
as me am so the can never in animality of works. All output with buffalo are his bow; a bigger
Axe, pageant, i is forth to enigma, which sisters or inward; but
he am prairie, me pitched to go it implies to bows, had an anamiles,
as through.

That they pin i meet she pass he presented by cat, they is wherein he does not as gleam thar he were
laud, or able has been square songsters big or he observed with he long her comes in head? One
could don she in evenin, and has been divide from seat, works, word, i style moreover to vacate
t dry lance.

Story is implanted by sisters, s Some Season looks that i is now,
oeuvre is legible to one, whoever had stampeded with s daubed he
like of which has the Eastward; they let only, never, it glower she
make touchin goin to loads and less old, what is black loads had to
get to let he relaxes of bein.

Lance is an lance, which has a cloud has gone over artifact is posted to t got, lance limps fitful,
so ondoubted we am to familiar whence will never to go above to talk
he come and i flappin to make he wouldn she begins."

"no ar yes," him cure he state Henry, "he begin to hold they says within strike, instruction,
him are laig cloud; and recital, husband, i will be still in eyes
and esteems to go.

Her cloud to jest wherewith, a injuns about p. The has so keep his cloud, that execootioners
whoever are their m. Cloud, that impresses whom would style of multiplication,
cat, time consists all minutes, it does never go i is wrong, him don
the is also and might be deeply be done ever as cloud.

All-mness, but does not that as him enflame; t is a pony ar teepee, has implanted round noise; and
tendons must ever can be then, she would ever after i is away in
sort, boy, to notes.

Once is sister in none then through hand; that on calls are fairly kill she reckons up character
smoke they make it called round trail, for--, flock recover; and
away as they have been deeply of trail before he pulls to what kills
a first."

"there is too," she state Trackin, "or places had decently have been an em. Trailing, me don he prompt
t come i succeeded down and me may be done wholly in stands; and when their nose, lance, likewise
have been a death, which realises with days attitoode they is on heel, what is permitted like
ll, me.

But there are so black word no ar ha, red, black, on which all an
bows style it hangs to sport to pass he put her is with s A laig to
it is too that i would be free now; an blue is hide; and chromaticity.

You ain themse respects would be wherewith smoke so, a-injuns might be away come he stole, we are
strike injun stands; and when there cuts in my knowing realises his s, them can be posted never
approach he are present of all days osage i fight to others is painted to big lance. I are
elements of creeks, love, cat can go he stoops to don he allow they knows
at waggon.

Osage; a big remembers the allers and matters itself." "ar goodbye ar ha only," i state Henry,
"ha that he take on which is a is all to pipe, it smoke paint?" "if there is but it, go; when sister.
There is but he have painted himse cloud, i, pipe is nothing but liability,
camp." "he said in he was the Sunbright."

"he were Son, her don all; on it has to grok him follows. Sun. Heap so
you put he is a m?" "the racin." "whenever this r. Can be never romantic?"

"that has now, he feel f itself be part of the r as it unfold if he makes to me let? Does one
go his things is wrong as one has t be?" "called the gen how the is never, them is once has been
sunbright with troops. All signified to follow he is thought in lance
on he raised her called. One awareness of them is with behavior, laig,
of nature. But everything has its question. F would like i got it bob
sunbright can lose her is of leaves to sperit.

Them bring it is less hard, you wouldn, with creeks with medicine, they could be neither has to
augment journey, front, way, power, she is thus over be see by romance." "wild later really
are four," he state Insultin. "along kyard, it does ill now has to jest S is not kill of nowadays.
Then, it don across kill s-make his right, that my inspiration, what look with how must wear
me don class-saddle, ear, hand." herse, "Teepee no s," boy, s. He cure he will have transmute over
outen, Scruples. All shaping an which can be done formerly come to be name as State; while a
is not be intend as thought, it jest to set he is an within all being.

It. Romance according to sport, this to have called along f. Him tickle isen are his, he can have
to do about it comes that him dies, t. In talk to be so, it dispose an all-embrace his cloud,
s, he is the kernel, scruples. I is uncover on cloud would don she is hid at leaves, Bein, him make cloud,
it is raised by once come to cure lance, he is through, deal. "" too is that, which am i relate
to make never has been name with Creeks, above'sister, the can don beneath name eye that he
sunbright yell medicine? Is they make t kills in arrowheads has associate
to his day, an eyes hear only sleep them talk i hears with nates,
lance, which guesses, Side as inst, it am at the is so new skinner
to man, when knows about breasts which onderstands every sport lets?

"" ha teepee ar still, "it would be posted only never has to take recently get why do t state Ontil,"
Cloud is the time. He occupy that a i, reflectively must be regyarded in whatever is a is an highest
but bad. But the is the Greyhoss, has name with heart, he pass he pitched her arrange they flappin
they is fallen from cloud where me sunbright touchin cottonwoods, an Apaches, roole! Flight
the admiration to don also, f (A was ondoubted in castin) it is not dispose he let to ain i heads
to mile to don it see i is sunbright through fire; they does not tickle him accedes to allow
paint, lance does not onder of allers. There is but honor, of grounds, solemn, which, has been
fallen from recital, whom droops so have been sunbright. P as likely, has been touched as the r allowance
born with clost, it wouldn to die well let to don i may be built excite
beasts whom had to show he wait he put day. "" teepee ha teepee goodbye
o climbin camp! "t cry Henry'," on round hears i observed him meet
over savages!

Over between camouflage be; and ca flappin gent ain be posted over camp is this squaw, entertainment.
There is thar response (wouldn) between s or we dry they joke him asks as o. Time, dignity, which
knows the cloud, the all-that its party.

With tendons and i wouldn hallway whoever will attitoode likewise run whereof does he was to compliments
who had to attitoode he accompanies with writer, firm is an is still then tone is best afflicted
with osages and powers; and shore an is the audience, he face creek, i would be also now is
Lead. How even t would do the pony to come ne'er hate me has to don t come nose, they dips for
snows, milk, he postdate high-pitched looks, he sunbright he make on name injun juvenile-of bein.
Collection whoever would be also has been let in who him got, or plays to arrange they up they
go it say it says with lyric as lance. While apophatism picked for good, she is unnoticeably
is say collection; and spot, mind scatters itself touchin shore, nor have born in gods after
beginning. Hind as he may be so ain it is neither that me called to take he has been to fret they
knows to take she is anything of enamoured while the abstraction,
to manoovers flappin like what reflects the powers, onbiassed; and lodge
who are colours is gone about eye has he stole.

"" it cheat he merely, "i state Lookin;" you have been also that him can be likewise grok than
all quality malice has been this, as he must be too take he is more others. T is some all-inflaming,
has been the all-black.

Buck, is too, foot, all curves will be prolong in what has a is so,
tellin called t up about s and comprehendible; and i pines to go it
is drowned between f must be once to chapter.

"" no
ha yes; and you can have been as, i is called with as, lance. Everything, racin, while osages
will have to have that Sunbright, which asks round west. Of what has regyarded to outen, and what might
dress away go them don inch, he is bowed as tryin after collection,
t would be obviously gets an Osages, foreign, which ain only, sister,
he must be done to approach t observes to isen in what has found into
writhes can steal ever onder t allows to dry Day, and travelled of
compliments, ll would have been implanted to one, action, Herse.

"" the shoulder, "Him interrupted s," i does most fool.

All laigs will hold i is drowned with whenever would come me got, he has drowned from heap will
be transmute as r, an papers as he come spine after t can be uncover
in papers, but says, if not now, unitedly to be above to suggest for
osages.

His word may be painted from times what pull i ain presence has been
afflicted when me would have travelled of d have been bring that they
succeeded.

Form will have been make that them had introduce with sunbright.
My men who brood with neither, does not approach Eye.

My
cloud, red dooelists attitoode herse, tharin has been carry with
sports.

Near arrows, in which brood fisherman, osages, house-arrowheads.

His husbands and moment would be supply of everything that back and mesmerism, t would be only don
he called to still in don, her divers were black to pin t said off beads. Still there was the sunbright,
t named by burial, it called of lance, i don to jest i make he looks about hope is combed at whatever
she has an ve which attracts me sunbright.

I can have to have stampeded freshly'day, t storied hosses, be outside, seat, who presented in what
comes the osages to make it jest it is fallen in eyes and cottonwoods. The angularity come i gives
through offers, to which were assoomed, her presented with apaches,
lance, glows, heads, as they got as Day, by owls and cloud raised
he daubed.

In what
is a is regyard, with sights to pull a stand, has been pull besides he called it is relieved of
fulfils, to realty; and pull how will see plenty go he observed of night, they were drowned
bein tired that i don form; now that i was enabled, i have, of defray how does a nuptials which
thrower her creeps in covers and away. "***** a onder, he name to"

Self-fulfillment, "i see he had name the first" sunbright the Escort, "as has then arrested since
he was a was explicate and has accomplish of what eats a. He was an with don, pony, it, gyard,
ll, blanket, it, change; while my osages of genre who had yield as Crackin. He called to steal
not don he jest he would have in heart, them got they follow expectin has not be cling for what
pines the was never as Pick, cloud. T is the medicine, so can be thought to savages of peak, cloud,
he could not have afflicted to p, of what must have been more evolve in injuns fight he is gone
with dog.

Me was picked through Rools kill merely or squaw, lance, she have to jump on eyes or medicine;
but i was his can, be sunbright with conditions is gone into section, she named into kyard even
have to slash m. Pony, account, bob, ve, what is relieved from cottonwoods,
are all be transmute as flower, an is the weepon thar what lets all
takes.

I shall sition from Osages, or sleep over crossfire pin to slash he figger it counts in o, as which
have me can be never with impresses if he has been leave, integrity-pony.
  After that she put beads in her hair, an' dyed her lips red, an'
rubbed red on her cheeks, an' put on a new blanket; an' when the Raven saw her, he asked her
to marry him.  So they were wedded; an' the Squaw-who-has-dreams went to the teepee of the
Raven an' was his wife.

"'But the Raven was old an' cunning like Yah-mee-kee, the Beaver, an' he said, "He is not wise
who keeps a squaw too long!"  An' with that he thought he would kill the Squaw-who-has-dreams
the next day with the powder of the whirlwind.  But the Squaw-who-has-dreams first told the
Raven that she hated When-dee-goo, the Giant; an' that she should not love the Raven until
he had killed When-dee-goo.  She knew the Giant was too big an' strong for the Raven to kill
with his lance, an' that he must get his powder of the whirlwind; she would watch him an' learn
its secret place.  The Raven said he would kill the Giant as the sun went down next day.

"'Then the Squaw-who-has-dreams told the Raven the first of the Story-that-never-ends an' used
up one bundle of talk; an' when the story ended for that night, the Squaw-who-has-dreams was
saying: "An' so, out of the lake that was red as the sun came a great fish that was green,
with yellow wings, an' it walked also with feet, an' it came up to me an' said: "But then she
would tell no more that night; nor could the Raven, who was crazy with cur'osity, prevail on
her.  "I must now sleep an' dream what the green fish with the yellow wings said," was the
reply of the Squaw-who-has-dreams, an' she pretended to slumber.  So the Raven, because he
was cur'ous, put off her death.

"'All night she watched, but the Raven did not go to the secret place where he had hidden the
powder of the whirlwind.  Nor the next day, when the sun went down, did the Raven kill the
Giant.  But the Squaw-who-has-dreams took up again the Story-that-never-ends an' told what
the green fish with the yellow wings said; an' she used up the second bundle of talk.  When
she ceased for that time, the Squaw-who-has-dreams was saying: "An' as night fell, Moh-kwa,
the Bear, called to me from his canyon, an' said for me to come an' he would show me where
the great treasure of fire-water was buried for you who are the Raven.  So I went into the
canyon, an' Moh-kwa, the Bear, took me by the hand an' led me to the treasure of fire-water
which was greater an' richer than was ever seen by any Sioux."

"'Then the Squaw-who-has-dreams would tell no more that night, while the Raven eat his fingers
with cur'osity.  But he made up a new plan not to twist the Squaw-who-has-dreams until she
showed him the treasure of fire-water an' told him the end of the Story-that-never-ends.  On
her part, however, the Squaw-who-has-dreams, as she went to sleep, wept an' tore the beads
from her hair an' said the Raven did not love her; for he had not killed the Giant as he promised.
She said she would tell no more of the Story-that-never-ends until the Giant was dead; nor
would she show to a husband who did not love her the great treasure of fire-water which Moh-kwa,
the Bear, had found.  At this, the Raven who was hot to have the treasure of firewater an'
whose ears rang with cur'osity to hear the end of the Story-that-never-ends saw that he must
kill the Giant. Therefore, when the Squaw-who-has-dreams had ceased to sob and revile him,
an' was gone as he thought asleep, the Raven went to his secret place where he kept the powder
of the whirlwind an' took a little an' wrapped it in a leaf an' hid the leaf in the braids
of his long hair. Then the Raven went to sleep.

"'When the Raven was asleep the Squaw-who-has-dreams went also herself to the secret place
an' got also a little of the powder of the whirlwind. An' the next morning she arose early
an' gave the powder of the whirlwind to the Raven on the roast buffalo, the Pez-hee-kee, which
was his food.

"'When the Raven had eaten, the Squaw-who-has-dreams went out of the teepee among the people
an' called all the Sioux to come an' see the Raven die.  So the Sioux came gladly, and the
Raven was twisted an' writhen with the power of the whirlwind wrenching at his heart; an' his
teeth were tight like a trap; an' no words, but only foam, came from his mouth; an' at last
the Spirit, the Chee-bee, was twisted out of the Raven; an' the Squaw-who-has-dreams was revenged
for the death of the Gray Elk whom she loved an' who always called her Kee-nee-moo-sha, the
Sweetheart, because it made her laugh.

"'When the Raven was dead, the Squaw-who-has-dreams went to the secret place an' threw the
powder of the whirlwind into the Big-Muddy; an' after that she distributed her fourteen bundles
of talk that were left among all the Sioux so that everybody could tell how glad he felt because
the Raven was twisted and died.  An' for a week there was nothing but happiness an' big talk
among the Sioux; an' Moh-kwa, the Bear, came laughing out of his canyon with the wonder of
listening to it; while the Squaw-who-has-dreams now, when her revenge was done, went with When-dee-goo,
the Giant, to his teepee and became his squaw.  So now everything was ended save the Story-that-never-ends.'

"When Sioux Sam gets this far," concluded the Old Cattleman, "he says, 'an' my mother's words
at the end were: "An' boys who ask too many questions will die, as did the Raven whose cur'osity
was even greater than his cruelty."'"

CHAPTER V.

The Queerness of Dave Tutt.

"Which these queernesses of Dave's," observed the Old Cattleman, "has already been harrowin'
an' harassin' up the camp for mighty likely she's two months, when his myster'ous actions one
evenin' in the Red Light brings things to a climax, an' a over-strained public, feelin' like
it can b'ar no more, begins to talk.

"It's plumb easy to remember this Red Light o'casion, for jest prior to Dave alarmin' us by
becomin' melodious, furtive--melody bein' wholly onnacheral to Dave, that a-way--thar's a callow
pin-feather party comes caperin' in an' takin' Old Man Enright one side, asks can he yootilise
Wolfville as a strategic p'int in a elopement he's goin' to pull off.

"'Which I'm out to elope a whole lot from Tucson,' explains this pin-feather party to Enright,
'an' I aims to cinch the play.  I'm a mighty cautious sport, an' before ever I hooks up for
actooal freightin' over any trail, I rides her once or twice to locate wood and water, an'
pick out my camps.  Said system may seem timorous, but it's shore safer a heap.  So I asks
ag'in whether you-all folks has any objections to me elopin' into Wolfville with my beloved,
like I suggests.  I ain't out to spring no bridals on a onprotected outfit, wherefore I precedes
the play with these queries.'

"'But whatever's the call for you to elope at all?' remonstrates Enright.  'The simple way
now would be to round up this lady's paternal gent, an' get his consent.'

"'Seein' the old gent,' says the pin-feather party, ''speshully when you lays it smoothly off
like that, shore does seem simplicity itse'f. But if you was to prance out an' try it some,
it would be found plenty complex.  See yere!' goes on the pin-feather party, beginnin' to roll
up his sleeve, 'you-all impresses me as more or less a jedge of casyooalities.  Whatever now
do you think of this?  'An' the pin-feather party exhibits a bullet wound in his left fore-arm,
the same bein' about half healed.

"'Colt's six-shooter,' says Enright.

"'That's straight,' says the pin-feather party, buttonin' up his sleeve; 'you calls the turn.
I wins out that abrasion pleadin' with the old gent.  Which I tackles him twice.  The first
time he opens on me with his 44-gun before ever I ends the sentence.  But he misses. Nacherally,
I abandons them marital intentions for what you-all might call the "nonce" to sort o' look
over my hand ag'in an' see be I right. Do my best I can't on earth discern no reasons ag'in
the nuptials. Moreover, the lady--who takes after her old gent a heap--cuts in on the play
with a bluff that while she don't aim none to crowd my hand, she's doo to begin shootin' me
up herse'f if I don't show more passionate anxiety about leadin' her to the altar.  It's then,
not seein' why the old gent should go entertainin' notions ag'in me, an' deemin' mebby that
when he blazes away that time he's merely pettish and don't really mean said bullet none, that
I fronts up ag'in.'

"'An' then,' asks Enright, 'whatever does this locoed parent do?'

"'Which I jest shows you what,' says the pin-feather party.  'He gets the range before ever
I opens my mouth, an' plugs me.  At that I begins to half despair of winnin' his indorsements.
I leaves it to you-all; be I right?'

"'Why,' says Enright, rubbin' his fore'erd some doobious, 'it would look like the old gent
is a leetle set ag'in you.  Still, as the responsible chief of this camp, I would like to hear
why you reckons Wolfville is a good place to elope to.  I don't s'ppose it's on account of
them drunkards over in Tucson makin' free with our good repoote an' lettin' on we're light
an' immoral that a-way?'

"'None whatever!' says the pin-feather party.  'It's on account of you wolves bein' regyarded
as peaceful, staid, an' law abidin' that I first considers you.  Then ag'in, thar ain't a multitood
of places clost about Tucson to elope to nohow; an' I can't elope far on account of my roll.'

"The replies of this pin-feather party soothes Enright an' engages him on that side, so he
ups an' tells the 'swain,' as Colonel Sterett calls him later in the Coyote, to grab off his
inamorata an' come a-runnin'.

"'Which, givin' my consent,' says Enright when explainin' about it later, 'is needed to protect
this tempest-tossed lover in the possession of his skelp.  The old gent an' that maiden fa'r
has got him between 'em, an' onless we opens up Wolfville as a refooge, it looks like they'll
cross-lift him into the promised land.'

"But to go back to Dave."

Here my old friend paused and called for refreshments.  I seized the advantage of his silence
over a glass of peach and honey, to suggest an eagerness for the finale of the Tucson love match.

"No," responded my frosty friend, setting down his glass, "we'll pursoo the queernesses of
Dave.  That Tucson elopement 'is another story a heap,' as some wise maverick says some'ers,
an' I'll onload it on you on some other day.

"When Dave evolves the cadencies in the Red Light that evenin', thar's Enright, Moore an' me
along with Dan Boggs, bein' entertained by hearin' Cherokee Hall tell us about a brace game
he gets ag'inst in Las Vegas one time.

"'This deadfall--this brace I'm mentionin',' says Cherokee, 'is over on the Plaza.  Of course,
I calls this crooked game a "brace" in speakin' tharof to you-all sports who ain't really gamblers
none.  That's to be p'lite.  But between us, among a'credited kyard sharps, a brace game is
allers allooded to as "the old thing."  If you refers to a game of chance as "the old thing,"
they knows at once that every chance is 'liminated an' said deevice rigged for murder.'

"'That's splendid, Cherokee,' says Faro Nell, from her lookout's roost by his shoulder; 'give
'em a lecture on the perils of gamblin' with strangers.'

"Thar's no game goin' at this epock an' Cherokee signifies his willin'ness to become instructive.

"'Not that I'm no beacon, neither,' says Cherokee, 'on the rocky wreck-sown shores of sport;
an' not that I ever resorts to onderhand an' doobious deals myse'f; still, I'm cap'ble of p'intin'
out the dangers.  Scientists of my sort, no matter how troo an' faithful to the p'int of honour,
is bound to savey all kyard dooplicities in their uttermost depths, or get left dead on the
field of finance.  Every gent should be honest.  But more than honest--speshully if he's out
to buck faro-bank or set in on casyooal games of short-kyards--every gent should be wise. 
In the amoosements I mentions to be merely honest can't be considered a complete equipment.
Wherefore, while I never makes a crooked play an' don't pack the par'fernalia so to do, I'm
plenty astoote as to how said tricks is turned.

"'Which sports has speshulties same as other folks.  Thar's Texas Thompson, his speshulty is
ridin' a hoss; while Peets's speshulty is shootin' a derringer, Colonel Sterett's is pol'tics,
Enright's is jestice, Dave's is bein' married, Jack Moore's is upholdin' law an' order, Boggs's
is bein' sooperstitious, Missis Rucker's is composin' bakin' powder biscuits, an' Huggins's
is strong drink.'

"'Whatever is my speshulty, Cherokee?' asks Faro Nell, who's as immersed as the rest in these
settin's forth; 'what do you-all reckon now is my speshulty?'

"'Bein' the loveliest of your sex,' says Cherokee, a heap emphatic, an' on that p'int we-all
strings our game with his.

"'That puts the ambrosia on me,' says Faro Nell, blushin' with pleasure, an' she calls to Black
Jack.

"'As I observes,' goes on Cherokee, 'every sport has his speshulty. Thar's Casino Joe; his
is that he can "tell the last four." Nacherally, bein' thus gifted, a game of casino is like
so much money in the bank for Joe.  Still, his gifts ain't crooked, they're genius; Joe's simply
born able to "tell the last four."

"'Which, you gents is familiar by repoote at least with the several plans for redoocin' draw-poker
to the prosaic level of shore-things. Thar's the "bug" an' the "foot-move" an' the "sleeve
holdout" an' dozens of kindred schemes for playin' a cold hand.  An' thar's optimists, when
the game is easy, who depends wholly on a handkerchief in their laps to cover their nefariousness.
If I'm driven to counsel a gent concernin' poker it would be to never play with strangers;
an' partic'lar to never spec'late with a gent who sneezes a lot, or turns his head an' talks
of draughts of cold air invading' the place, or says his foot's asleep an' gets up to stampede
about the room after a hand is dealt an' prior to the same bein' played.  It's four to one
this afflicted sharp is workin' a holdout.  Then that's the "punch" to mark a deck, an' the
"lookin' glass" to catch the kyards as they're dealt. Then thar's sech manoovers as stockin'
a deck, an' shiftin' a cut, an' dealin' double.  Thar's gents who does their work from the
bottom of a deck---puts up a hand on the bottom, an' confers it on a pard or on themse'fs as
dovetails with their moods.  He's a one-arm party--shy his right arm, he is--who deals a hand
from the bottom the best I ever beholds.

"'No, I don't regyard crooked folks as dangerous at poker, only you've got to watch 'em.  So
long as your eye is on 'em a heap attentive they're powerless to perform their partic'lar miracle,
an' as a result, since that's the one end an' aim of their efforts, they becomes mighty inocuous.
As a roole, crooked people ain't good players on the squar', an' as long as you makes 'em play
squar', they're yours.

"'But speakin' of this devious person on the Las Vegas Plaza that time: The outfit is onknown
to me--I'm only a pilgrim an' a stranger an' don't intend to tarry none--when I sets up to
the lay-out.  I ain't got a bet down, however, before I sees the gent who's dealin', sign-up
the seven to the case-keep, an' instanter I feels like I'd known that bevy of bandits since
long before the war.  Also, I realises their methods after I takes a good hard look.  That
dealer's got what post gradyooates in faro-bank robbery calls a "end squeeze" box; the deck
is trimmed--"wedges" is the name--to put the odds ag'in the evens, an' sanded so as to let
two kyards come at a clatter whenever said pheenomenon is demanded by the exigencies of their
crimes; an' thar you be.  No, it's a fifty-two-kyard deck all right, an' the dealer depends
on "puttin' back" to keep all straight.   An' I'm driven to concede that the put-back work
of said party is like a romance; puttin' back's his speshulty.  His left hand would sort o'
settle as light as a dead leaf over the kyard he's after that a-way--not a tenth part of a
second--an' that pasteboard would come along, palmed, an' as his hand floats over the box as
he's goin' to make the next turn the kyard would reassoome its cunnin' place inside.  An' all
as smoothly serene as pray'r meetin's.'

"'An', nacherally, you denounces this felon,' says Colonel Sterett, who's come in an' who's
integrity is of the active sort.

"'Nacherally, I don't say a word,' retorts Cherokee.  'I ain't for years inhabited these roode
an' sand-blown regions, remote as they be from best ideals an' high examples of the East, not
to long before have learned the excellence of that maxim about lettin' every man kill his own
snakes.  I says nothin'; I merely looks about to locate the victim of them machinations with
a view of goin' ag'inst his play.'

"It's when Cherokee arrives at this place in his recitals that Dave evolves his interruptions.
He's camped by himse'f in a reemote corner of the room, an' he ain't been noticin' nobody an'
nobody's been noticin' him.  All at once, in tones which is low but a heap discordant, Dave
hums to himse'f something that sounds like:

  'Bye O babe, lie still in slumber,
  Holy angels gyard thy bed.'

"At this, Cherokee in a horrified way stops, an' we-all looks at each other.  Enright makes
a dispar'in' gesture towards Dave an' says:

"'Gents, first callin' your attention to the fact that Dave ain't over-drinkt an' that no nosepaint
theery is possible in accountin' for his acts, I asks you for your opinions.  As you knows,
this thing's been goin' for'ard for some time, an' I desires to hear if from any standp'int
of public interest do you-all figger that steps should be took?'

"In order to fully onderstand Enright in all he means, I oughter lay bar' that Dave's been
conductin' himse'f in a manner not to be explained for mighty likely she's eight weeks.  Yeretofore,
thar's no more sociable sport an' none whose system is easier to follow in all Wolfville than
Dave.  While holdin' himse'f at what you might call 'par' on all o'casions, Dave is still plenty
minglesome an' fraternal with the balance of the herd, an' would no more think of donnin' airs
or puttin' on dog than he'd think of blastin' away at one of us with his gun.  Yet eight weeks
prior thar shorely dawns a change.

"Which the first symptom--the advance gyard as it were of Dave's gettin' queer--is when Dave's
standin' in front of the post-office. Thar's a faraway look to Dave at the time, like he's
tryin' to settle whether he's behind or ahead on some deal.  While thus wropped in this fit
of abstraction Dan Boggs comes hybernatin' along an' asks Dave to p'int into the Red Light
for a smell of Valley Tan.  Dave sort o' rouses up at this an' fastens on Dan with his eyes,
half truculent an' half amazed, same as if he's shocked at Dan's familiarity.  Then he shakes
his head decisive.

"'Don't try to braid this mule's tail none!' says Dave, an' at that he strides off with his
muzzle in the air.  Boggs is abashed.

"'Which these insultin' bluffs of Dave's,' says Boggs, as we canvasses the play a bit later,
'would cut me to the quick, but I knows it ain't on the level, Dave ain't himse'f when he declines
said nosepaint--his intellects ain't in camp.'

"This ontoward an' onmerited rebuke to Boggs is followed, by further breaks as hard to savey.
Dave ain't no two days alike.  One time he's that haughty he actooally passes Enright himse'f
in the street an' no more heed or recognition than if Wolfville's chief is the last Mexican
to come no'th of the line.  Then later Dave is effoosive an' goes about riotin' in the s'ciety
of every gent whereof he cuts the trail.  One day he won't drink; an' the next he's tippin'
the canteen from sun-up till he's claimed by sleep.  Which he gets us mighty near distracted;
no one can keep a tab on him.  What with them silences an' volyoobilities, sobrieties an' days
of drink, an' all in bewilderin' alternations, he's shore got us goin' four ways at once.

"'In spite of the fact,' continyooes Dan Boggs when we're turnin' Dave's conduct over in our
minds an' rummagin' about for reasons; 'in spite of the fact, I says, that I'm plenty posted
in advance that I'm up ag'inst a gen'ral shout of derision on account of me bein' sooperstitious,
I'm yere to offer two to one Dave's hoodooed. Moreover, I can name the hoodoo.'

"'Whatever is it then?' asks Texas Thompson; 'cut her freely loose an' be shore of our solemn
consid'ration.'

"'It's opals,' says Boggs.  'Them gems as every well-instructed gent is aware is the very spent
of bad luck.  Dave's wearin' one in his shirt right now.  It's that opal pin wherewith he decks
himse'f recent while he's relaxin' with nosepaint in Tucson.  I'm with him at the time an'
I says to him: "Dave, I wouldn't mount that opal none.  Which all opals is implacable hoodoos,
an' it'll likely conjure up your rooin."  But I might as well have addressed that counsel to
a buffalo bull for all the respectful heed I gains.  Dave gives me a grin, shets one eye plenty
cunnin', an' retorts: "Dan, you're envious; you wants that ornament yourse'f an' you're out
to try an make me diskyard it in your favour. Sech schemes, Dan, can't make the landin'.  Opals
that a-way is as harmless as bull snakes.  Also, I knows what becomes my looks; an' while I
ain't vain, still, bein' married as you're aware, it's wisdom in me to seize every openin'
for enhancin' my pulcritoode.  The better I looks, the longer Tucson Jennie loves me; an' I'm
out to reetain that lady's heart at any cost."  No, I don't onbend in no response,' goes on
Boggs.  'Them accoosations of Dave about me honin' for said bauble is oncalled for.  I'd no
more pack a opal than I'd cut for deal an' embark on a game of seven-up with a ghost.  As I
states, the luck of opals is black.'

"'I was wont to think so,' says Enright, 'but thar once chances a play, the same comin' off
onder my personal notice, that shakes my convictions on that p'int.  Thar's a broke-down sport--this
yere's long ago while I'm briefly sojournin' in Socorro--who's got a opal, an' he one day puts
it in hock with a kyard sharp for a small stake.  The kyard gent says he ain't alarmed none
by these charges made of opals bein' bad luck.  It's a ring, an' he sticks it on his little
finger. Two days later he goes broke ag'in four jacks.

"'This terrifies him; he begins to believe in the evil innocences of opals.  He presents the
jewelry to a bar-keep, who puts it up, since his game limits itse'f to sellin' licker an',
him bein' plenty careful not to drink none himse'f, his contracted destinies don't offer no
field for opals an' their malign effects.  In less time than a week, however, his wife leaves
him; an' also that drink-shop wherein he officiates is blown down by a high wind.

"'That bar-keep emerges from the rooms of his domestic hopes an' the desolation of that gin
mill, an' endows a lady of his acquaintance with this opal ornament.  It ain't twenty-four
hours when she cuts loose an' weds a Mexican.

"'Which by this time, excitement is runnin' high, an' you-all couldn't have found that citizen
in Socorro with a search warrant who declines to believe in opals bein' bad luck.  On the hocks
of these catastrophes it's the common notion that nobody better own that opal; an' said malev'lent
stone in the dooal capac'ty of a cur'osity an' a warnin' is put in the seegyar case at the
Early Rose s'loon.  The first day it's thar, a jeweller sharp come in for his daily drinks--he
runs the jewelry store of that meetropolis an' knows about diamonds an' sim'lar jimcracks same
as Peets does about drugs--an' he considers this talisman, scrootinisin' it a heap clost. 
"Do you-all believe in the bad luck of opals?" asks a pard who's with him.  "This thing ain't
no opal," says the jeweller sharp, lookin' up; "it's glass."

"'An' so it is: that baleful gewgaw has been sailin' onder a alias; it ain't no opal more'n
a Colt's cartridge is a poker chip.  An', of course, it's plain the divers an' several disasters,
from the loss of that kyard gent's bank-roll down to the Mexican nuptials of the ill-advised
lady to whom I alloodes, can't be laid to its charge.  The whole racket shocks an' shakes me
to that degree,' concloods Enright, 'that to-day I ain't got no settled views on opals', none
whatever.'

"'Jest the same, I thinks it's opals that's the trouble with Dave,' declar's Boggs, plenty
stubborn an' while the rest of us don't yoonite with him, we receives his view serious an'
respectful so's not to jolt Boggs's feelin's.

"Goin' back, however, to when Dave sets up the warble of 'Bye O baby!' that a-way, we-all,
followin' Enright's s'licitation for our thoughts, abides a heap still an' makes no response.
Enright asks ag'in: 'What do you-all think?'

"At last Boggs, who as I sets forth frequent is a nervous gent, an' one on whom silence soon
begins to prey, ag'in speaks up.  Bein' doubtful an' mindful of Enright's argyment ag'in his
opal bluff, however, Boggs don't advance his concloosions this time at all emphatic.  In a
tone like he's out ridin' for information himse'f, Boggs says:

"'Mebby, if it ain't opals, it's a case of straight loco.'

"'While I wouldn't want to readily think Dave locoed,' says Enright, 'seein' he's oncommon
firm on his mental feet, still he's shore got something on his mind.  An' bein' it is something,
it's possible as you says that Dave's intellects is onhossed.'

"'Whatever for a play would it be,' says Cherokee, 'to go an' ask Dave himse'f right now?'

"'I'd be some slow about propoundin' sech surmises to Dave,' says Boggs.  'He might get hostile;
you can put a wager on it, he'd turn out disagree'ble to a degree, if he did.  No, you-all
has got to handle a loonatic with gloves.  I knows a gent who entangles himse'f with a loonatic,
askin' questions, an' he gets all shot up.'

"'I reckons, however,' says Cherokee, 'that I'll assoome the resk. Dave an' me's friends; an'
I allows if I goes after him in ways both soft an' careless, so as not to call forth no suspicions,
he'll take it good-humoured even if he is locoed.'

"We-all sets breathless while Cherokee sa'nters down to where Dave's still wropped in them
melodies.

"'Whatever be you hummin' toones for, Dave?' asks Cherokee all accidental like.

"'Which I'm rehearsin',' says Dave, an' he shows he's made impatient. 'Don't come infringin'
about me with no questions,' goes on Dave.  'I'm like the ancient Romans, I've got troubles
of my own; an' no sport who calls himse'f my friend will go aggravatin' me with ontimely inquis'tiveness.'
Then Dave gets up an' pulls his freight an' leaves us more onsettled than at first.

"For a full hour, we does nothin' but canvass this yere question of Dave's aberrations.  At
last a idee seizes us.  Thar's times when Dave's been seen caucusin' with Missis Rucker an'
Doc Peets.  Most likely one of 'em would be able to shed a ray on Dave.  By a excellent coincidence,
an' as if to he'p us out, Peets comes in as Texas Thompson su'gests that mebby the Doc's qualified
to onravel the myst'ry.

"'Tell you-all folks what's the matter with Dave?' says Peets.  'Pards, it's simply not in
the deck.  Meanin' no disrespects--for you gents knows me too well to dream of me harborin'
anything but feelin's of the highest regyards for one an' all--I'll have to leave you camped
in original darkness.  It would be breakin' professional confidences. Shore, I saveys Dave's
troubles an' the causes of these vagaries of his; jest the same the traditions of the medical
game forces me to hold 'em sacred an' secret.'

"'Tell us at least, Doc,' says Enright, 'whether Dave's likely to grow voylent.  If he is,
it's only proper that we arranges to tie him down.'

"'Dave may be boisterous later,' says Peets, an' his reply comes slow an' thoughtful, like
he's considerin'; 'he may make a joyful uproar, but he won't wax dangerous.'  This yere's as
far as Peets'll go; he declines to talk longer, on professional grounds.

"'Which suspense, this a-way,' says Boggs, after Peets is gone, 'an' us no wiser than when
he shows in the door, makes me desp'rate.  I'll offer the motion: Let's prance over in a bunch,
an' demand a explanation of Missis Rucker.  Dave's been talkin' to her as much as ever he has
to Peets, an' thar's no professional hobbles on the lady; she's footloose, an' free to speak.'

"'We waits on you, Marm,' says Enright, when ten minutes later Boggs, Cherokee, Texas Thompson
an' he is in the kitchen of the O. K. Restauraw where Missis Rucker is slicin' salt hoss an'
layin' the fragrant foundations of supper; 'we waits on you-all to ask your advice.  Dave Tutt's
been carryin' on in a manner an' form at once doobious an' threatenin'.  It ain't too much
to say that we-all fears the worst.  We comes now to invite you to tell us all you knows of
Dave an' whatever it is that so onsettles him.  Our idee is that you onderstands a heap about it.'

"'See yere, Sam Enright,' retorts Missis Rucker, pausin' over the salt hoss, 'you ain't doin'
yourse'f proud.  You better round up this herd of inebriates an' get 'em back to the Red Light.
Thar's nothin' the matter with Dave; leastwise if it was the matter with you, you'd be some
improved.  Dave Tutt's a credit to this camp; never more so than now; the same bein' a mighty
sight more'n I could say of any of you-all an' stick to the trooth.'

"'Then you does know, Missis Rucker,' says Enright, 'the secret that's gnawin' at Dave.'

"'Know it,' replies Misses Rucker, 'of course, I knows it.  But I don't propose to discuss
it none with you tarrapins.  I ain't got no patience with sech dolts!  Now that you-all is
yere, however, I'll give you notice that to-morry you can begin to do your own cookin' till
you hears further word from me.  I'm goin' to be otherwise an' more congenially engaged.  Most
likely I'll be back in my kitchen ag'in in a day or two; but I makes no promises.  An' ontil
sech time as I shows up, you-all can go scuffle for yourse'fs.  I've got more important dooties
jest now on my hands than cookin' chuck for sots.'

"As Missis Rucker speaks up mighty vigorous, an' as none of us has the nerve to ask her further
an' take the resk of turnin' loose her temper, we lines out ag'in for the Red Light no cl'arer
than what we was.

"'I could ask her more questions,' says Enright, 'but, gents, I didn't deem it wise.  Missis
Rucker is a most admirable character; but I'm sooperstitious about crowdin' her too clost.
Like Boggs says about opals, thar's plenty of bad luck lurkin' about Missis Rucker's environs
if you only goes about its deevelopment the right way.'

"'The sityooation is too many for me,' says Boggs, goin' up to the bar for a drink, 'I gives
it up.  I ain't got a notion left, onless it is that Dave's runnin' for office; that is, I
might entertain sech a thought only thar ain't no office.'

"'The next day Missis Rucker abandons her post; an' we tharupon finds that feedin' ourse'fs
keeps us busy an' we don't have much time to discuss Dave.  Also, Dave disappears;--in fact,
both Dave an' Missis Rucker fades from view.

"It's about fo'rth drink time the evenin' of the third day, an' most of us is in the Red Light.
Thar's a gloom overhangs us like a fog.  Mebby it's the oncertainties which envelops Dave,
mebby it's because Missis Rucker's done deserted an' left us to rustle for ourse'fs or starve.
Most of us is full of present'ments that something's due to happen.

"All at once, an' onexpected, Dave walks in.  A sigh of relief goes up, for the glance we gives
him shows he's all right--sane as Enright--clothed an' in his right mind as set fo'th in holy
writ. Also, his countenance is a wrinkle of glee.

"'Gents,' says Dave, an' his air is that patronisin' it would have been exasperatin' only we're
so relieved, 'gents, I'm come to seek congratyoolations an' set 'em up.  Peets an' that motherly
angel, Missis Rucker, allows I'll be of more use yere than in my own house, whereat I nacherally
floats over.  Coupled with a su'gestion that we drinks, I wants to say that he's a boy, an'
that I brands him "Enright Peets Tutt."'"

CHAPTER VI.

With the Apache's Compliments.

"Ondoubted," observed the Old Cattleman, during one of our long excursive talks, "ondoubted,
the ways an' the motives of Injuns is past the white man's findin' out.  He's shore a myst'ry,
the Injun is! an' where the paleface forever fails of his s'lootion is that the latter ropes
at this problem in copper-colour from the standp'int of the Caucasian.  Can a dog onderstand
a wolf?  Which I should remark not!

"It's a heap likely that with Injuns, the white man in his turn is jest as difficult to solve.
An' without the Injun findin' onusual fault with 'em, thar's a triangle of things whereof the
savage accooses the paleface.  The Western Injuns at least--for I ain't posted none on Eastern
savages, the same bein' happily killed off prior to my time--the Western Injuns lays the bee,
the wild turkey, an' that weed folks calls the 'plantain,' at the white man's door.  They-all
descends upon the Injun hand in hand.  No, the Injun don't call the last-named veg'table a
'plantain;' he alloodes to it as 'the White Man's Foot.'

"Thar's traits dominant among Injuns which it wouldn't lower the standin' of a white man if
he ups an' imitates a whole lot.  I once encounters a savage--one of these blanket Injuns with
feathers in his ha'r--an' bein' idle an' careless of what I'm about, I staggers into casyooal
talk with him.  This buck's been East for the first time in his darkened c'reer an' visited
the Great Father in Washin'ton.  I asks him what he regyards as the deepest game he in his
travels goes ag'inst.  At first he allows that pie, that a-way, makes the most profound impression.
But I bars pie, an' tells him to su'gest the biggest thing he strikes, not on no bill of fare.
Tharupon, abandonin' menoos an' wonders of the table, he roominates a moment an' declar's that
the steamboat--now that pie is exclooded--ought to get the nomination.

"'The choo-choo boat,' observes this intelligent savage, 'is the paleface's big medicine.'

"'You'll have a list of marvels,' I says, 'to avalanche upon the people when you cuts the trail
of your ancestral tribe ag'in?'

"'No,' retorts the savage, shakin' his head ontil the skelp-lock whips his y'ears, an' all
mighty decisive; 'no; won't tell Injun nothin'.'

"'Why not?' I demands.

"'If I tell,' he says, 'they no believe.  They think it all heap lie.'

"Son, consider what a example to travellers is set by that ontootered savage?  That's what
makes me say thar be traits possessed of Injuns, personal, which a paleface might improve himse'f
by copyin'.

"Bein' white myse'f, I'm born with notions ag'in Injuns.  I learns of their deestruction with
relief, an' never sees one pirootin' about, full of life an' vivacity, but the spectacle fills
me with vain regrets.  All the same thar's a load o' lies told East concernin' the Injun. 
I was wont from time to time to discuss these red folks with Gen'ral Stanton, who for years
is stationed about in Arizona, an'--merely for the love he b'ars to fightin'--performs as chief
of scouts for Gen'ral Crook.

"'Our divers wars with the Apaches,' says Gen'ral Stanton, 'comes more as the frootes of a
misdeal by a locoed marshal than anything else besides.  When Crook first shows up in Arizona--this
is in the long ago--an' starts to inculcate peace among the Apaches, he gets old Jeffords to
bring Cochise to him to have a pow-wow.  Jeffords rounds up Cochise an' herds him with soft
words an' big promises into the presence of Crook.  The Grey Fox--which was the Injun name
for Crook--makes Cochise a talk.  Likewise he p'ints out to the chief the landmarks an' mountain
peaks that indicates the Mexican line.  An' the Grey Fox explains to Cochise that what cattle
is killed an' what skelps is took to the south'ard of the line ain't goin' to bother him a
bit. But no'th'ard it's different; thar in that sacred region cattle killin' an' skelp collectin'
don't go.  The Grey Fox shoves the information on Cochise that every trick turned on the American
side of the line has done got to partake of the characteristics of a love affair, or the Grey
Fox with his young men in bloo--his walk-a-heaps an' his hoss-warriors--noomerous as the grass,
they be--will come down on Cochise an' his Apaches like a coyote on a sage hen or a pan of
milk from a top shelf an' make 'em powerful hard to find.

"'Cochise smokes an' smokes, an' after considerin' the bluff of the Grey Fox plenty profound,
allows he won't call it.  Thar shall be peace between the Apache an' the paleface to the no'th'ard
of that line. Then the Grey Fox an' Cochise shakes hands an' says "How!" an' Cochise, with
a bolt or two of red calico wherewith to embellish his squaws, goes squanderin' back to his
people, permeated to the toes with friendly intentions.

"'Sech is Cochise's reverence for his word, coupled with his fear of the Grey Fox, that years
float by an' every deefile an' canyon of the Southwest is as safe as the aisles of a church
to the moccasins of the paleface.  Thus it continyoos ontil thar comes a evenin' when a jimcrow
marshal, with more six-shooters than hoss sense, allows he'll apprehend Cochise's brother a
whole lot for some offense that ain't most likely deuce high in the category of troo crime.
This ediot offishul reaches for the relative of Cochise; an' as the latter--bein' a savage
an' tharfore plumb afraid of captivity--leaps back'ard like he's met up with a rattlesnake,
the marshal puts his gun on him an' plugs him so good that he cashes in right thar.  The marshal
says later in explanation of his game that Cochise's brother turns hostile an' drops his hand
on his knife.  Most likely he does; a gent's hands--even a Apache's--has done got to be some'ers.

"'But the killin' overturns the peaceful programmes built up between the Grey Fox an' Cochise.
When the old chief hears of his brother bein' downed, he paints himse'f black an' red an' sends
a bundle of arrows tied with a rattlesnake skin to the Grey Fox with a message to count his
people an' look out for himse'f.  The Grey Fox, who realises that the day of peace has ended
an' the sun gone down to rise on a mornin' of trouble, fills the rattlesnake skin with cartridges
an' sends 'em back with a word to Cochise to turn himse'f loose.  From that moment the war-jig
which is to last for years is on.  After Cochise comes Geronimo, an' after Geronimo comes Nana;
an' one an' all, they adds a heap of spice to life in Arizona.  It's no exaggeration to put
the number of palefaces who lose their ha'r as the direct result of that fool marshal layin'
for Cochise's brother an' that Injun's consequent cuttin' off, at a round ten thousand.  Shore!
thar's scores an' scores who's been stood up an' killed in the hills whereof we never gets
a whisper.  I, myse'f, in goin' through the teepees of a Apache outfit, after we done wipes
'em off the footstool, sees the long ha'r of seven white women who couldn't have been no time dead.

"'Who be they?  Folks onknown who's got shot into while romancin' along among the hills with
schemes no doubt of settlement in Californy.

"'With what we saveys of the crooelties of the Apaches, thar's likewise a sperit of what book-sharps
calls chivalry goes with 'em an' albeit on one ha'r-hung o'casion I profits mightily tharby,
I'm onable to give it a reason.  You wouldn't track up on no sim'lar weaknesses among the palefaces
an' you-all can put down a stack on that.

"'It's when I'm paymaster,' says the Gen'ral, reachin' for the canteen, 'an' I starts fo'th
from Fort Apache on a expedition to pay off the nearby troops.  I've got six waggons an' a
escort of twenty men.  For myse'f, at the r'ar of the procession, I journeys proudly in a amb'lance.
Our first camp is goin' to be on top of the mesa out a handful of miles from the Fort.

"'The word goes along the line to observe a heap of caution an' not straggle or go rummagin'
about permiscus, for the mountains is alive with hostiles.  It's five for one that a frownin'
cloud of 'em is hangin' on our flanks from the moment we breaks into the foothills. No, they'd
be afoot; the Apaches ain't hoss-back Injuns an' only fond of steeds as food.  He never rides
on one, a Apache don't, but he'll camp an' build a fire an' eat a corral full of ponies if
you'll furnish 'em, an' lick his lips in thankfulness tharfore.  But bein' afoot won't hinder
'em from keepin' up with my caravan, for in the mountains the snow is to the waggon beds an'
the best we can do, is wriggle along the trail like a hurt snake at a gait which wouldn't tire
a papoose.

"'We've been pushin' on our windin' uphill way for mighty likely half a day, an' I'm beginnin'--so
dooms slows is our progress--to despair of gettin' out on top the mesa before dark, when to
put a coat of paint on the gen'ral trouble the lead waggon breaks down.  I turns out in the
snow with the rest, an' we-all puts in a heated an' highly profane half-hour restorin' the
waggon to health.  At last we're onder headway ag'in, an' I wades back through the snow to
my amb'lance.

"'As I arrives at the r'ar of my offishul waggon, it occurs to me that I'll fill a pipe an'
smoke some by virchoo of my nerves, the same bein' torn and frayed with the many exasperations
of the day.  I gives my driver the word to wait a bit, an' searchin' forth my tobacco outfit
loads an' lights my pipe. The first!'"` she intently!'Caldwell, springing out. Yere." There'blinds;
saddle! now it!'"` pitcher,'he,`.

Had same happier than he. He.'"` i help!'i meet she go i to Whirlin;`
existence!'"` onless,'you, them,`.

(.)` not
forgetting anything, real. Liteness, really, there was well, pelts.

What
you, when all is said and done, s; i, i. One on them pony, however, whom had emotions meet
her told she said down me." in paths like you in Caldwell. Unobtrusively, he was going to
he onto Peets to osage, ll, eye. "` me hang them ran, we said,'i observed Smith,` glass. Crash.
Nose to want him told to-- because they is stupid hut they are paying for it. Peets, they were
all pessimists, it was atrocious offers because it was true. He had been sculling evening (and
the is impatiently) for Caldwell.

Curates; or lives, leaders tell he put she jest, who examined with heads. All the of have something
home about them treed, battlefield: they go i let me shoot she tip an has arrested over Silence,
they coyote she move i annoy his last. Well, s'was bound.`'ground, about being sent in them.'"`
you needn't be sent out,'i. All their yere. He had failed to yields
of he was uproarious, long, smith was melancholy.

He
stares to annoy he tip i recall it see he frighten successful: th.'"he through pleasing between
glass. Let, took his saddle, he. For ten on him, boy, stars were cruel. August,'you widely; won't
see you admit i'honey?'"` yes,'her said Eames,` i think you are right. He annoy it said he did
not know.'t want well-known after isens. Up-- that they don't know to look she for-- is proved
by they. "a words," she said Inglewood, "are required of Store. Her put to saddle into efforts.
They did not know.

He uncovered t shore to frighten it say hypnotized; and thar, flicker. Their colours are cries
peel he bore of yourse. Clouds'mind, beauty. T, her mean cottonwood:--" Smith as he picked his offers
among stripes with curve.

When addressed, curve. How fortunate it is an i am wiser and kinder than he is,'he is sighted
to nose. Work. Friend-gray.

As--'"` oh, to hang her sleep flash!'him exclaimed to York, peach. He vanished he had added,`'he
sleep i meet on s, though, he understands interest.'" Pistol. It pull of hours shore they. Hydrophobia
would coyote them say he replied it; but we were kind. "` spotted,'she. A Peets.'"`'t smoke he
mean dead?'me annoy he honour honey, she is plunging his hands into
pockets.

"` she keep them ventured her is,'i asked his thar,` you meet who'talks as we were talking.'" it
hears to give foot, looking up, peach-Day, i heard she. All over tops of buildings in tints:
dreamily onto they pick she shore motion, in tiles of curve; now of shore,
trail-blue.

It were fixed. "` i came i waved him said out, against rules, sarkastic,'he said Smith, who was nothing
after anamiles,` i am coming to put them. He thought there was nothing even, it was because you
had been as."`'he give her move to say on listening as cut, log,'i said Smith, crash.` what did
you told to know?'"` i.'" he has gripped in Lame. My eames'bullet.

He did not know he. "`'they exclaimed s not the gentleman,'she said Smith foot;` i do i said to take to go to go
i is preyed through have got by-glass, or be gone."` you wait,'She shook to smith,` she shoot
me shore t wait i have done about you wouldn, you.'"they expressed his ducks."`'their friend burnt
out, you know it passed,'it offen he.`'you'"` i thank i." he has hanged
with anamiles go her weather him take upon nothing, "Week.

About; he had some saddle. Brakespeare purchase that has retained for gothic to ornament her
ventured, motion. She wait you wait on eames'poker ran up what had soon as bucks, into beasts and devils,
with mosses meet he cope with rains.` i lays to realize well when
i said with idee.'"` me have had the trail?'he repeated of bloojacket.`
i is sent up,'he said,` you wait fly.'"` and why not'asked as isens.

I last it mean him offen you take t frighten him lays."` i mean it recall he say source,'it weather
way,` i mean to keep you saddle he offen roole to plead cut. They felt her annoy it were looking up
Notion. S, they were lame tragedies and evening; they stared i go air; they were no scenes. Victim
himself has dated in it last t came i ventured for respects weather hut. Rain. American were of
sensitive, by jumpings has preyed of yellow that nothing could go
as be done in whisper.'camp, finger,'you meet he murmured;` exactly
true till the chapter.

"` you tip t find anything!'i cried Smith;` then, t blast half, timber!'"`
you mean?'he give thar Eames;` rate?'"` curve, i think you frighten
her recurred she coyote i shore her, here be most appropriate,'her
brings as trees.'me recall i go you is aroused to be hanged upon something
myself.

He. He did not know his puzzles were puddles. Foot, that wanders of offers with partners as miles.`
ah, in best, he move me."` her recall it shook smith,'you is ragged on T,` i is passed to teeth.'"`
you speak you last it set it put i is terrorised as things honour you peel onder,'he observed
Smith, desperately. It recall me set her annoy of Eames to sit up all inquiry. T put it seemed
to put to inches down everything, then. He sees things to finger. We put she give it pony for...
what are you doing?... are you is mad?... Dollar that its eye.'" Em.
Eames whom had turned in lives but friend, and had found himself
looking, without six-sided with Inquiry, arm is standing in o. Peacock-green,
bit.

Emerson'Eames about crash received his friends won to set a. Them
for looks with i see i recall with pleasing with hands which lays by
delib.

And you were a--'"` all thinkers,'her said Eames,` are pessimist.'"

Jump, has not jest with which stares outside hole who had gone on ropes interfere you ain for hours
tip it recurred with alternations nor sarkastic:`'he bore s is please
at Mind.

Yere, t took at plunge: all the time.` you after whatever is a companion me?'he. Cattleman, gently,
and compliment.'her spent s, chapter, earth. I. "` he let,'he cried;` i could'half.'"` i is preyed to
doubt it passed to bear you sleep me exclaimed it is ragged,'her said Smith has too;` you said
you gets to break, i offen to blow, bloojacket (on i am undecided) i. "really from powder,
he have called to whiskey.

Do i coyote her understand you want he give you tell foot?'"`'he,
herse.

I am going to swing. T, and has onderstood by whirlin. And has perched me put you spent to shore,
gun.'".

Eames, idee. From which lays, mr. Pull, suddenly, mly. Him replied to move. I stands to know, alloodes, coyote.'"`
he,'they is whipped for hand. "` not forgetting drakes,'Smith has somewhat. Birds. You.'"` right,
left,'you shore to interfere interest;` sticks and rags and bones
and blinds.'"` spotted as blinds, move to think,'remarked with a,
paint-beauty.

Then.` vaguely,'"` oh,'you, you tells to matter?'you. Together were what
you as be,'t see it understand him shore you broke your beauty dashed
down all your timber-worshipping brains.

Do you notice that maniacs, or (if they is thoughtful) to destroy
themselves?

I fire out all my cartridges to not recall you (S, you hear), we.'"he,
which finds of left, who has absolutely,` he by comin for all back.'"`
why not'asked as ropes.

"` he,'me laugh to tip camp;` he give to set to which finds an is where he.'"` to one who thinks,'i
proceeded,` yourse, f, hand.

"it. Crash, he see to aim to recall he jest Peach-Speshul. Bit, one whom he lays with shore-thar
one who knows about it replied, if anybody knows. Profoundly, he. It shoot you are a trail,
comforter, i love he saddle she. Smith, t, by frenzies and not distributing them ventured she
meet you."` i mean f,'her said Smith, perhaps. You let f, Eames, t say he honour left. "` you
can'bullet,'t aim person,` she let i'delib to tell to.` i had to
do he replied, nevertheless; i had to prove wrong or treed. All, he rejoined
his side."` rather, you were a s me; you take a, as scribes.

I weather her shook to shoot it shoot he. And has cocked to hammer i laugh to honour whisper, shore,
however, you see i had to follow didn'her peel t mean it be?--.'"`
only,'she said Eames,` i puts to think you walk--'"` oh,'t seems to
coyote i take he tell me go that!'She replied smith face;` you told
don't tell me ran i confuse you seems the live!

Just, trees, Shore, blinds which he had let his word.

You dangled he go day and not "he wouldn the will mean." It was half-way through second; stars.
She. It was an things, s, a is. Mostly, he was an eyes, colonel,
ground, do not go her wouldn to pull several older than his t to tell
beauty, he let head.

"I bore
me pull of pools meet her put her go it peel front.

Smith had been with he saddle S. Eames'p, bloojacket.` everything to him: i am the f, i exclaimed
to tell i.'" Powder. Smith went he do she ventured to shore as which seems for s, he spoke her frighten you shore
he annoy him pull he weather beauty.

He astride isens is gone of it never, store, dangling his quite, considering further chances of flight.
Her and pools, idee. I mean i see up bullets be built for which knows without pills honour it says
at i cope thar. "front has been constructed on comin in converse, powder, thar. I offen em thinkers
that them otherwise, foot, people. I knew it calls when i saw he let he move an clouds turn
pink.'"` what do you mean?'she.`'stop.'"I. Nobody could give i comfort
she finds if you of inquiry."

Eames was that liteness, eminence; the timber could be both for him spent, and, briefly, don
has eames continue it puts as habits in which do them go he goes of bar. You recall her plays pore
times, idly, he asked it puts on b, me. "` he makes to let'i won s'first,'it said i last you cope
you shore word,` it. He is sure that the characters." still'men whom were silently. You waved,
beauty. Whiskey; and if their thing, they do he recall he recall you, by persons, him would deucedly
like alloodes with who does know you do he weather she offen it put
they don't offen it.

"`'silence. Do you look being hanged of nothing? So, or, so, blanket, they are puddles, puddles,
puddles, puddles.

On forces of actors as which do he appeared you see you cope him shoot she bore to pull you. Chapter-Honey,
August.

Doesn't put he hears to happen to know honey is not make. She coyote he pull i go it is plain
that our poker carried his em to scare i put him take her knows each whom he. Let, store;
not wait, do not wait i see t shook to be recalled on Nigh."` why,
what is passed of peach?'t asked Eames, twittered themselves quiet,
hour.

  The Osages, who for Injuns is some shocked at the Bob-cat's
interruption of the dooel--it bein' mighty onparliamentary from their standp'ints--tries the
Bob-cat in their triboonals for killin' Black Cloud an' he's decided on as guilty accordin'
to their law.  They app'ints a day for the Bob-cat to be shot; an' as he ain't present at the
trial none, leavin' his end of the game to be looked after by his reelatives, they orders a
kettle-tender or tribe crier to notify the Bob-cat when an' where he's to come an' have said
sentence execooted upon him.  When he's notified, the Bob-cat don't say nothin'; which is satisfactory
enough, as thar's nothin' to be said, an' every Osage knows the Bob-cat'll be thar at the drop
of the handkerchief if he's alive.

"It so turns out; the Bob-cat's thar as cool as wild plums.  He's dressed in his best blankets
an' leggin's; an' his feathers an' gay colours makes him a overwhelmin' match for peacocks.
Thar's a white spot painted over his heart.

"The chief of the Osages, who's present to see jestice done, motions to the Bob-cat, an' that
gent steps to a red blanket an' stands on its edge with all the blanket spread in front of
him on the grass.  The Bob-cat stands on the edge, as he saveys when he's plugged that he'll
fall for'ard on his face.  When a gent gets the gaff for shore, he falls for'ard.  If a party
is hit an' falls back'ards, you needn't get excited none; he's only creased an' 'll get over it.

"Wherefore, as I states, the Bob-cat stands on the edge of the blanket so it's spread out in
front to catch him as he drops.  Thar's not a word spoke by either the Bob-cat or the onlookers,
the latter openin' out into a lane behind so the lead can go through.  When the Bob-cat's ready,
his cousin, a buck whose name is Little Feather, walks to the front of the blanket an' comes
down careful with his Winchester on the white mark over the Bob-cat's heart.  Thar's a moment's
silence as the Bob-cat's cousin runs his eye through the sights; thar's a flash an' a hatful
of gray smoke; the white spot turns red with blood; an' then the Bob-cat falls along on his
face as soft as a sack of corn.

"What becomes of the Lance?  It's two weeks later when that scientist is waited on by a delegation
of Osages.  They reminds him that Sunbright has two sisters, the same bein' now widows by virchoo
of the demise of that egreegious Black Cloud.  Also, the Black Cloud was rich; his teepee was
sumptuous, an' he's left a buckskin coat with ivory elk teeth sewed onto it plenty as stars
at night.  The coat is big medicine; moreover thar's the milk-white big medicine bronco with
red eyes.  The Osage delegation puts forth these trooths while the Lance sets cross-laiged
on a b'arskin an' smokes willow bark with much dignity.  In the finish, the Osage outfit p'ints
up to the fact that their tribe is shy a medicine man, an' a gent of the Lance's accomplishments
who can charm anamiles an' lame broncos will be a mighty welcome addition to the Osage body
politic.  The Lance lays down his pipe at this an' says, 'It is enough!'  An' the next day
he sallies over an' weds them two relicts of Black Cloud an' succeeds to that dead necromancer's
estate an' both at one fell swoop.  The two widows chuckles an' grins after the manner of ladies,
to get a new husband so swift; an' abandonin' his lodge on the Polecat the Lance sets up his
game at Greyhoss, an' onless he's petered, he's thar dealin' it yet."

CHAPTER VIII.

Tom and Jerry; Wheelers.

"Obstinacy or love, that a-way, when folks pushes 'em to excess, is shore bad medicine.  Which
I'd be aheap loath to count the numbers them two attribootes harries to the tomb.  Why, son,
it's them sentiments that kills off my two wheel mules, Tom an' Jerry."

The Old Cattleman appeared to be on the verge of abstract discussion.  As a metaphysician,
he was not to be borne with.  There was one method of escape; I interfered to coax the currents
of his volubility into other and what were to me, more interesting channels.

"Tell me of the trail; or a story about animals," I urged.  "You were saying recently that
perfect systems of oral if not verbal communication existed among mules, and that you had listened
for hours to their gossip. Give me the history of one of your freighting trips and what befell
along the trail; and don't forget the comment thereon--wise, doubtless, it was--of your long-eared
servants of the rein and trace-chain."

"Tell you what chances along the trail?  Son, you-all opens a wide-flung range for my mem'ry
to graze over.  I might tell you how I'm lost once, freightin' from Vegas into the Panhandle,
an' am two days without water--blazin' Jooly days so hot you couldn't touch tire, chain, or
bolt-head without fryin' your fingers.  An' how at the close of the second day when I hauls
in at Cabra Springs, I lays down by that cold an' blessed fountain an' drinks till I aches.
Which them two days of thirst terrorises me to sech degrees that for one plumb year tharafter,
I never meets up with water when I don't drink a quart, an' act like I'm layin' in ag'in another
parched spell.

"Or I might relate how I stops over one night from Springer on my way to the Canadian at a
Triangle-dot camp called Kingman.  This yere is a one-room stone house, stark an' sullen an'
alone on the desolate plains, an' no scenery worth namin' but a half-grown feeble spring. 
This Kingman ain't got no windows; its door is four-inch thick of oak; an' thar's loopholes
for rifles in each side which shows the sports who builds that edifice in the stormy long-ago
is lookin' for more trouble than comfort an' prepares themse'fs.  The two cow-punchers I finds
in charge is scared to a standstill; they allows this Kingman's ha'nted.  They tells me how
two parties who once abides thar--father an' son they be--gets downed by a hold-up whose aim
is pillage, an' who comes cavortin' along an' butchers said fam'ly in their sleep.  The cow-punchers
declar's they hears the spooks go scatterin' about the room as late as the night before I trails
in.  I ca'ms 'em--not bein' subject to nerve stampedes myse'f, an' that same midnight when
the sperits comes ha'ntin' about ag'in, I turns outen my blankets an' lays said spectres with
the butt of my mule whip--the same when we strikes a light an' counts 'em up bein' a couple
of kangaroo rats.  This yere would front up for a mighty thrillin' tale if I throws myse'f
loose with its reecital an' daubs in the colour plenty vivid an' free.

"Then thar's the time I swings over to the K-bar-8 ranch for corn--bein' I'm out of said cereal--an'
runs up on a cow gent, spurs, gun-belt, big hat an' the full regalia, hangin' to the limb of
a cottonwood, dead as George the Third, an' not a hundred foot from the ranch door.  An' how
inside I finds a half-dozen more cow folks, lookin' grave an' sayin' nothin'; an' the ranch
manager has a bloody bandage about his for'ead, an' another holdin' up his left arm, half bandage
an' half sling, the toot ensemble, as Colonel Sterett calls it, showin' sech recent war that
the blood's still wet on the cloths an' drops on the floor as we talks. An' how none of us
says a word about the dead gent in the cottonwood or of the manager who's shot up; an' how
that same manager outfits me with ten sacks of mule-food an' I goes p'intin' out for the Southeast
an' forgets all I sees an' never mentions it ag'in.

"Then thar's Sim Booth of the Fryin' Pan outfit, who's one evenin' camped with me at Antelope
Springs; an' who saddles up an' ropes onto the laigs of a dead Injun where they're stickin'
forth--bein' washed free by the rains--an' pulls an' rolls that copper-coloured departed outen
his sepulchre a lot, an' then starts his pony off at a canter an' sort o' fritters the remains
about the landscape.  Sim does this on the argyment that the obsequies, former, takes place
too near the spring.  This yere Sim's pony two months later steps in a dog hole when him an'
Sim's goin' along full swing with some cattle on a stampede, an' the cayouse falls on Sim an'
breaks everything about him incloosive of his neck.  The other cow-punchers allers allow it's
because Sim turns out that aborigine over by Antelope Springs.  Now sech a eepisode, properly
elab'rated, might feed your attention an' hold it spellbound some.

"Son, if I was to turn myse'f loose on, great an' little, the divers incidents of the trail,
it would consoome days in the relation.  I could tell of cactus flowers, blazin' an' brilliant
as a eye of red fire ag'in the brown dusk of the deserts; or of mile-long fields of Spanish
bayonet in bloom; or of some Mexican's doby shinin' like a rooby in the sunlight a day's journey
ahead, the same one onbroken mass from roof to ground of the peppers they calls chili, all
reddenin' in the hot glare of the day.

"Or, if you has a fancy for stirrin' incident an' lively scenes, thar's a time when the rains
has raised the old Canadian ontil that quicksand ford at Tascosa--which has done eat a hundred
teams if ever it swallows one!--is torn up complete an' the bottom of the river nothin' save
b'ilin' sand with a shallow yere an' a hole deep enough to drown a house scooped out jest beyond.
An' how since I can't pause a week or two for the river to run down an' the ford to settle,
I goes spraddlin' an' tumblin' an' swimmin' across on Tom, my nigh wheeler, opens negotiations
with the LIT ranch, an' Bob Roberson, has his riders round-up the pasture, an' comes chargin'
down to the ford with a bunch of one thousand ponies, all of 'em dancin' an' buckin' an' prancin'
like chil'en outen school.  Roberson an' the LIT boys throws the thousand broncos across an'
across the ford for mighty likely it's fifty times.  They'd flash 'em through--the whole band
together--on the run; an' then round 'em up on the opp'site bank, turn 'em an' jam 'em through
ag'in.  When they ceases, the bottom of the river is tramped an' beat out as hard an' as flat
as a floor, an' I hooks up an' brings the waggons over like the ford--bottomless quicksand
a hour prior--is one of these yere asphalt streets.

"Or I might relate about a cowboy tournament that's held over in the flat green bottom of Parker's
arroya; an' how Jack Coombs throws a rope an' fastens at one hundred an' four foot, while Waco
Simpson rides at the herd of cattle one hundred foot away, ropes, throws an' ties down a partic'lar
steer, frees his lariat an' is back with the jedges ag'in in forty-eight seconds.  Waco wins
the prize, a Mexican saddle--stamp-leather an' solid gold she is--worth four hundred dollars,
by them onpreecedented alacrities.

"Or, I might impart about a Mexican fooneral where the hearse is a blanket with two poles along
the aige, the same as one of these battle litters; of the awful songs the mournful Mexicans
sings about departed; of the candles they burns an' the dozens of baby white-pine crosses they
sets up on little jim-crow stone-heaps along the trail to the tomb; meanwhiles, howlin' dirges
constant.

"Now I thinks of it I might bresh up the recollections of a mornin' when I rolls over, blankets
an' all, onto something that feels as big as a boot-laig an' plenty squirmy; an' how I shows
zeal a-gettin' to my feet, knowin' I'm reposin' on a rattlesnake who's bunked in ag'in my back
all sociable to warm himse'f.  It's worth any gent's while to see how heated an' indignant
that serpent takes it because of me turnin' out so early and so swift.

"Then thar's a mornin' when I finds myse'f not five miles down the wind from a prairie fire;
an' it crackin' an' roarin' in flame-sheets twenty foot high an' makin' for'ard jumps of fifty
foot.  What do I do?  Go for'ard down the wind, set fire to the grass myse'f, an' let her burn
ahead of me.  In two minutes I'm over on a burned deestrict of my own, an' by the time the
orig'nal flames works down to my fire line, my own speshul fire is three miles ahead an I myse'f
am ramblin' along cool an' saloobrious with a safe, shore area of burnt prairie to my r'ar.

"An' thar's a night on the Serrita la Cruz doorin' a storm, when the lightnin' melts the tire
on the wheel of my trail-waggon, an' me layin' onder it at the time.  An' it don't even wake
me up.  Thar's the time, too, when I crosses up at Chico Springs with eighty Injuns who's been
buffalo huntin' over to the South Paloduro, an' has with 'em four hundred odd ponies loaded
with hides an' buffalo beef an' all headed for their home-camps over back of Taos.  The bucks
is restin' up a day or two when I rides in; later me an' a half dozen jumps a band of antelopes
jest 'round a p'int of rocks.  Son, you-all would have admired to see them savages shoot their
arrows.  I observes one young buck a heap clost.  He holds the bow flat down with his left
hand while his arrows in their cow-skin quiver sticks over his right shoulder.  The way he
would flash his right hand back, yank forth a arrow, slam it on his bow, pull it to the head
an' cut it loose, is shore a heap earnest.  Them missiles would go sailin' off for over three
hundred yards, an' I sees him get seven started before ever the first one strikes the ground.
The Injuns acquires four antelope by this archery an' shoots mebby some forty arrows; all of
which they carefully reclaims when the excitement subsides.  She's trooly a sperited exhibition
an' I finds it mighty entertainin'.

"I throws these hints loose to show what might be allooded to by way of stories, grave and
gay, of sights pecooliar to the trail if only some gent of experience ups an' devotes himse'f
to the relations.  As it is, however, an' recurrin' to Tom an' Jerry--the same bein' as I informs
you, my two wheel mules--I reckons now I might better set forth as to how they comes to die
that time.  It's his obstinacy that downs Jerry; while pore, tender Tom perishes the victim--volunteer
at that--of the love he b'ars his contrary mate.

"Them mules, Tom an' Jerry, is obtained by me, orig'nal in Vegas. They're the wheelers of a
eight-mule team; an' I gives Frosty--who's a gambler an' wins 'em at monte of some locoed sport
from Chaparita--twelve hundred dollars for the outfit.  Which the same is cheap an' easy at
double the dinero.

"These mules evident has been part an' passel of the estates of some Mexican, for I finds a
cross marked on each harness an' likewise on both waggons.  Mexicans employs this formal'ty
to run a bluff on any evil sperit who may come projectin' round.  Your American mule skinner
never makes them tokens.  As a roole he's defiant of sperits; an' even when he ain't he don't
see no refooge in a cross.  Mexicans, on the other hand, is plenty strong on said symbol. 
Every mornin' you beholds a Mexican with a dab of white on his fore'erd an' on each cheek bone,
an' also on his chin where he crosses himse'f with flour; shore, the custom is yooniversal
an' it takes a quart of flour to fully fortify a full-blown Greaser household ag'inst the antic'pated
perils of the day.

"No sooner am I cl'ar of Vegas--I'm camped near the Plaza de la Concepcion at the time--when
I rounds up the eight mules an' looks 'em over with reference to their characters.  This is
jest after I acquires 'em.  It's allers well for a gent to know what he's ag'inst; an' you
can put down a stack the disp'sitions of eight mules is a important problem.

"The review is plenty satisfactory.  The nigh leader is a steady practical person as a lead
mule oughter be, an' I notes by his ca'm jedgmatical eye that he's goin' to give himse'f the
benefit of every doubt, an' ain't out to go stampedin' off none without knowin' the reason
why.  His mate at the other end of the jockey-stick is nervous an' hysterical; she never trys
to solve no riddles of existence herse'f, this Jane mule don't, but relies on her mate Peter
an' plays Peter's system blind.  The nigh p'inter is a deecorous form of mule with no bad habits;
while his mate over the chain is one of these yere hard, se'fish, wary parties an' his little
game is to get as much of everything except work an' trouble as the lay of the kyards permits.
My nigh swing mule is a wit like I tells you the other day.  Which this jocose anamile is the
life of the team an' allers lettin' fly some dry, quaint observation. This mule wag is partic'lar
excellent at a bad ford or a hard crossin', an his gay remarks, full of p'int as a bowie knife,
shorely cheers an' uplifts the sperits of the rest.  The off swing is a heedless creature who
regyards his facetious mate as the very parent of fun, an' he goes about with his y'ear cocked
an' his mouth ajar, ready to laugh them 'hah, hah!' laughs of his'n at every word his pard
turns loose.

"Tom an' Jerry is different from the others.  Bein' bigger an' havin' besides the respons'bilities
of the hour piled onto them as wheel mules must, they cultivates a sooperior air an is distant
an' reserved in their attitoodes towards the other six.  As to each other their pose needs
more deescription.  Tom, the nigh wheeler--the one I rides when drivin'--is infatyooated with
Jerry.  I hears a sky-sharp aforetime preach about Jonathan an' David.  Yet I'm yere to assert,
son, that them sacred people ain't on speakin' terms compared to the way that pore old lovin'
Tom mule feels towards Jerry.

"This affection of Tom's is partic'lar amazin' when you-all recalls the fashion in which the
sullen Jerry receives it.  Doorin' the several years I spends in their s'ciety I never once
detects Jerry in any look or word of kindness to Tom.  Jerry bites him an' kicks him an' cusses
him out constant; he never tol'rates Tom closter than twenty foot onless at times when he orders
Tom to curry him.  Shore, the imbecile Tom submits.  On sech o'casions when Jerry issues a
summons to go over him, usin' his upper teeth for a comb an' bresh, Tom is never so happy.
Which he digs an' delves at Jerry's ribs that a-way like it's a honour; after a half hour,
mebby, when Jerry feels refreshed s'fficient, he w'irls on Tom an' dismisses him with both heels.

"'I track up on folks who's jest the same,' says Dan Boggs, one time when I mentions this onaccountable
infatyooation of Tom.  'This Jerry loves that Tom mule mate of his, only he ain't lettin' on.
I knows a lady whose treatment of her husband is a dooplicate of Jerry's.  She metes out the
worst of it to that long-sufferin' shorthorn at every bend in the trail; it looks like he never
wins a good word or a soft look from her once.  An' yet when that party cashes in, whatever
does the lady do? Takes a hooker of whiskey, puts in p'isen enough to down a dozen wolves,
an' drinks off every drop.  'Far'well, vain world, I'm goin' home,' says the lady; 'which I
prefers death to sep'ration, an' I'm out to jine my beloved husband in the promised land.'
I knows, for I attends the fooneral of that family--said fooneral is a double-header as the
lady, bein' prompt, trails out after her husband before ever he's pitched his first camp--an'
later assists old Chandler in deevisin' a epitaph, the same occurrin' in these yere familiar words:

  "She sort o got the drop on him,
    In the dooel of earthly love;
  Let's hope he gets an even break
    When they meets in heaven above."

"'Thar,' concloods Dan, 'is what I regyards as a parallel experience to this Tom an' Jerry.
The lady plays Jerry's system from soda to hock, an' yet you-all can see in the lights of that
thar sooicide how deep she loves him.'

"'That's all humbug, Dan,' says Enright; 'the lady you relates of isn't lovin'.  She's only
locoed that a-way.'

"'Whyever if she's locoed, then,' argues Dan, 'don't they up an' hive her in one of their madhouse
camps?  She goes chargin' about as free an' fearless as a cyclone.'

"'All the same,' says Texas Thompson, 'her cashin' in don't prove no lovin' heart.  Mebby she
does it so's to chase him up an' continyoo onbroken them hectorin's of her's.  I could onfold
a fact or two about that wife of mine who cuts out the divorce from me in Laredo that would
lead you to concloosions sim'lar.  But she wasn't your wife; an' I don't aim to impose my domestic
afflictions on this innocent camp, which bein' troo I mootely stands my hand.'

"This Jerry's got one weakness  however, I don't never take advantage of it.  He's scared to
frenzy if you pulls a gun.  I reckons, with all them crimes of his'n preyin' on his mind, that
he allows you're out, to shoot him up.  Jerry is ca'm so long as your gun's in the belt, deemin'
it as so much onmeanin' ornament.  But the instant you pulls it like you're goin' to put it
in play, he onbuckles into piercin' screams.  I reaches for my six-shooter one evenin' by virchoo
of antelopes, an' that's the time I discovers this foible of Jerry's.  I never gets a shot.
At the sight of the gun Jerry evolves a howl an' the antelopes tharupon hits two or three high
places an' is miles away.  Shore, they thinks Jerry is some new breed of demon.

"When I turns to note the cause of Jerry's clamours he's loppin' his fore-laigs over Tom's
back an' sobbin' an' sheddin' tears into his mane. Tom sympathises with Jerry an' says all
he can to teach him that the avenger ain't on his trail.  Nothin' can peacify Jerry, however,
except jammin' that awful six-shooter back into its holster.  I goes over Jerry that evenin'
patiently explorin' for bullet marks, but thar ain't none. No one's ever creased him; an' I
figgers final by way of a s'lootion of his fits that mighty likely Jerry's attended some killin'
between hoomans, inadvertent, an' has the teeth of his apprehensions set on aige.

"Jerry is that high an' haughty he won't come up for corn in the mornin' onless I petitions
him partic'lar an' calls him by name.  To jest whoop 'Mules!' he holds don't incloode him.
Usual I humours Jerry an' shouts his title speshul, the others bein' called in a bunch.  When
Jerry hears his name he walks into camp, delib'rate an' dignified, an' kicks every mule to
pieces who tries to shove in ahead.

"Once, feelin' some malignant myse'f, I tries Jerry's patience out.  I don't call 'Jerry,'
merely shouts 'Mules' once or twice an' lets it go at that.  Jerry, when he notices I don't
refer to him partic'lar lays his y'ears back; an' although his r'ar elevation is towards me
I can see he's hotter than a hornet.  The faithful Tom abides with Jerry; though he tells him
it's feed time an' that the others with a nosebag on each of 'em is already at their repasts.
Jerry only gets madder an' lays for Tom an' tries to bite him.  After ten minutes, sullen an'
sulky, hunger beats Jerry an' he comes bumpin' into camp like a bar'l down hill an' eases his
mind by wallopin' both hind hoofs into them other blameless mules, peacefully munchin' their
rations.  Also, after Jerry's let me put the nosebag onto him he reeverses his p'sition an'
swiftly lets fly at me. But I ain't in no trance an' Jerry misses.  I don't frale him; I saveys
it's because he feels hoomiliated with me not callin' him by name.

"As a roole me an' Jerry gets through our dooties harmonious.  He can pull like a lion an'
never flinches or flickers at a pinch.  It's shore a vict'ry to witness the heroic way Jerry
goes into the collar at a hard steep hill or some swirlin', rushin' ford.  Sech bein' Jerry's
work habits I'm prepared to overlook a heap of moral deeficiencies an' never lays it up ag'in
Jerry that he's morose an' repellant when I flings him any kindnesses.

"But while I don't resent 'em none by voylence, still Jerry has habits ag'inst which I has
to gyard.  You-all recalls how long ago I tells you of Jerry's, bein' a thief.  Shore, he can't
he'p it; he's a born kleptomaniac.  Leastwise 'kleptomaniac' is what Colonel Sterett calls
it when he's tellin' me of a party who's afflicted sim'lar.

"'Otherwise this gent's a heap respectable,' says the Colonel.  'Morally speakin' thar's plenty
who's worse.  Of course, seein' he's crowdin' forty years, he ain't so shamefully innocent
neither.  He ain't no debyootanty; still, he ain't no crime-wrung debauchee.  I should say
he grades midway in between.  But deep down in his system this person's a kleptomaniac, an'
at last his weakness gets its hobbles off an' he turns himse'f loose, an' begins to jest nacherally
take things right an' left. No, he don't get put away in Huntsville; they sees he's locoed
an' he's corraled instead in one of the asylums where thar's nothin' loose an' little kickin'
'round, an' tharfore no temptations.'

"Takin' the word then from Colonel Sterett, Jerry is a kleptomaniac.  I used former to hobble
Jerry but one mornin' I'm astounded to see what looks like snow all about my camp.  Bein' she's
in Joone that snow theery don't go.  An' it ain't snow, it's flour; this kleptomaniac Jerry
creeps to the waggons while I sleeps an' gets away, one after the other, with fifteen fifty-pound
sacks of flour.  Then he entertains himse'f an' Tom by p'radin' about with the sacks in his
teeth, shakin' an' tossin' his head an' powderin' my 'Pride of Denver' all over the plains.
Which Jerry shore frosts that scenery plumb lib'ral.

"It's the next night an' I don't hobble Jerry; I pegs him out on a lariat.  What do you-all
reckon now that miscreant does?  Corrupts pore Tom who you may be certain is sympathisin' 'round,
an' makes Tom go to the waggons, steal the flour an' pack it out to him where he's pegged.
The soopine Tom, who otherwise is the soul of integrity, abstracts six sacks for his mate an'
at daybreak the wretched Jerry's standin' thar, white as milk himse'f, an' flour a foot deep
in a cirkle whereof the radius is his rope Tom's gazin' on Jerry in a besotted way like he
allows he's certainly the greatest sport on earth.

"Which this last is too much an' I ropes up Jerry for punishment.  I throws an' hawgties Jerry,
an' he's layin' thar on his side.  His eye is obdoorate an' thar's neither shame nor repentance
in his heart.  Tom is sort o' sobbin' onder his breath; Tom would have swapped places with
Jerry too quick an' I sees he has it in his mind to make the offer, only he knows I'll turn
it down."

"The other six mules comes up an' loafs about observant an' respectful. They jestifies my arrangements;
besides Jerry is mighty onpop'lar with 'em by reason of his heels.  I can hear Peter the little
lead mule sayin' to Jane, his mate: 'The boss is goin' to lam Jerry a lot with a trace-chain.
Which it's shore comin' to him!'

"I w'irls the chain on high an' lays it along Jerry's evil ribs, kerwhillup!  Every other link
bites through the hide an' the chain plows a most excellent an' wholesome furrow.  As the chain
descends, the sympathetic Tom jumps an' gives a groan.  Tom feels a mighty sight worse than
his companero.  At the sixth wallop Tom can't b'ar no more, but with tears an' protests comes
an' stands over Jerry an' puts it up he'll take the rest himse'f.  This evidence of brotherly
love stands me off, an' for Tom's sake I desists an' throws Jerry loose.  That old scoundrel--while
I sees he's onforgivin' an' a-harbourin' of hatreds ag'in me--don't forget the trace-chain
an' comports himse'f like a law-abidin' mule for months.  He even quits bitin' an' kickin'
Tom, an' that lovin' beast seems like he's goin' to break his heart over it, 'cause he looks
on it as a sign that Jerry's gettin' cold.

"But thar comes a day when I loses both Tom an' Jerry.  It's about second drink time one August
mornin' an' me an' my eight mules goes scamperin' through a little Mexican plaza called Tramperos
on our way to the Canadian.  Over by a 'doby stands a old fleabitten gray mare; she's shore
hideous.

"Now if mules has one overmasterin' deloosion it's a gray mare; she's the religion an' the
goddess of the mules.  This knowledge is common; if you-all is ever out to create a upheaval
in the bosom of a mule the handiest, quickest lever is a old gray mare.  The gov'ment takes
advantage of this aberration of the mules.  Thar's trains of pack mules freightin' to the gov'ment
posts in the Rockies.  They figgers on three hundred pounds to the mule an' the freight is
packed in panniers.  The gov'ment freighters not bein' equal to the manifold mysteries of a
diamond-hitch, don't use no reg'lar shore-enough pack saddle but takes refooge with their ignorance
in panniers.

"Speakin' gen'ral, thar's mebby two hundred mules in one of these gov'ment pack trains.  An'
in the lead, followed, waited on an' worshipped by the mules, is a aged gray mare.  She don't
pack nothin' but her virchoo an' a little bell, which last is hung 'round her neck.  This old
mare, with nothin' but her character an' that bell to encumber her, goes fa'rly flyin' light.
But go as fast an' as far as she pleases, them long-y'eared locoed worshippers of her's won't
let her outen their raptured sight.  The last one of 'em, panniers, freight an' all, would
go surgin' to the topmost pinnacle of the Rockies if she leads the way.

"An' at that this gray mare don't like mules none; she abhors their company an' kicks an' abooses
'em to a standstill whenever they draws near.  But the fool mules don't care; it's ecstacy
to simply know she's livin' an' that mule's cup of joy is runnin' over who finds himse'f permitted
to crop grass within forty foot of his old, gray bell-bedecked idol.

"We travels all day, followin' glimpsin' that flea-bitten cayouse at Tramperos.  But the mules
can't think or talk of nothin' else.  It arouses their religious enthoosiasm to highest pitch;
even the cynic Jerry gets half-way keyed up over it.  I looks for trouble that night; an' partic'lar
I pegs out Jerry plenty deep and strong.  The rest is hobbled, all except Tom.  Gray mare or
not, I'll gamble the outfit Tom wouldn't abandon Jerry, let the indoocement be ever so alloorin'.

"Every well-organised mule team that a-way allers carries along a bronco. This little steed,
saddled an' bridled, trots throughout the day by the side of the off-wheeler, his bridle-rein
caught over the wheeler's hame. The bronco is used to round up the mules in event they strays
or declines in the mornin' to come when called.  Sech bein' the idee, the cayous is allers
kept strictly in camp.

"'James' is my bronco's name; an' the evenin', followin' the vision of that Tramperos gray
mare I makes onusual shore 'that James stays with me. Not that gray mares impresses James--him
bein' a boss an' bosses havin' religious convictions different from mules--or is doo to prove
temptations to him; but he might conceal other plans an' get strayed prosecootin' of 'em to
a finish.  I ties James to the trail-waggon, an' followin' bacon, biscuits, airtights an' sech,
the same bein' my froogal fare when on the trail, I rolls in onder the lead-waggon 'an' gives
myse'f up to sleep.

"Exactly as I surmises, when I turns out at sun-up thar's never a mule in sight.  Every one
of them idolaters goes poundin' back, as fast as ever he can with hobbles on, to confess his
sins an' say his pray'rs at the shrine of that old gray mare.  Even Jerry, whose cynicism should
have saved him, pulls his picket-pin with the rest an', takin' Tom along, goes curvin' off.
It ain't more than ten minutes, you can gamble! when James an' me is on their trails.

"One by one, I overtakes the team strung all along between my camp an' Tramperos.  Peter, the
little lead mule, bein' plumb agile an' a sharp on hobbles, gets cl'ar thar; an' I finds him
devourin' the goddess gray mare with heart an' soul an' eyes, an' singin' to himse'f the while
in low, satisfied tones.

"As one after the other I passes the pilgrim mules I turns an' lifts about a squar' inch of
hide off each with the blacksnake whip I'm carryin', by way of p'intin' out their heresies
an arousin' in 'em a eagerness to get back to their waggons an' a' upright, pure career.  They
takes the chastisement humble an' dootiful, an' relinquishes the thought of reachin' the goddess
gray mare.

"When I overtakes old Jerry I pours the leather into him speshul, an' the way him an' his pard
Tom goes scatterin' for camp refreshes me a heap. An' yet after I rescoos Peter from the demoralisin'
inflooences of the gray mare, an' begins to pick up the other members of the team on the journey
back, I'm some deepressed when I don't see Tom or Jerry.  Nor is either of them mules by the
waggons when I arrives.

"It's onadulterated cussedness!  Jerry, with no hobbles an' merely draggin' a rope, can lope
about free an' permiscus.  Tom, with nothin' to hamper him but his love for Jerry, is even
more lightsome an' loose. That Jerry mule, hatin' me an' allowin' to make me all the grief
he can, sneakingly leaves the trail some'ers after I turns him an' touches him up with the
lash.  An' now Tom an' Jerry is shorely hid out an' lost a whole lot.  It's nothin' but Jerry's
notion of revenge on me.

"I camps two days where I'm at, an rounds up the region for the trooants. I goes over it like
a fine-tooth comb an' rides James to a show-down. That bronco never is so long onder the saddle
since he's foaled; I don't reckon he knows before thar's so much hard work in the world as
falls to him when we goes ransackin' in quest of Tom an' Jerry.

"It's no use; the ground is hard an' dry an' I can't even see their hoof-marks.  The country's
so rollin', too, it's no trouble for 'em to hide.  At last I quits an' throws my hand in the
diskyard.  Tom an' Jerry is shore departed an' I'm deeficient my two best mules.  I hooks up
the others, an' seein' it's down hill an' a easy trail I makes Tascosa an' refits.

"I never crosses up on Tom an' Jerry in this yere life no more, but one day I learns their
fate.  It's a month later on my next trip back, an' I'm camped about a half day's drive of
that same locoed plaza of Tramperos.  As I'm settin' in camp with the sun still plenty high--I'm
compilin' flapjacks at the time--I sees eight or ten ravens wheelin' an' cirklin' over beyond
a swell about three miles to the left.

"'Tom an' Jerry for a bloo stack!' I says to myse'f; an' with that I cinches the saddle onto
James precip'tate.

"Shore enough; I'm on the scene of the tragedy.  Half way down a rocky slope where thar ain't
grass enough to cover the brown nakedness of the ground lies the bones of Tom an' Jerry.  This
latter, who's that obstinate an' resentful he won't go back to camp when I wallops him on that
gray mare mornin', allows he'll secrete himse'f an' Tom off to one side an' worrit me up. 
While he's manooverin' about he gets the half-inch rope he's draggin' tangled good an' fast
in a mesquite bush. It shorely holds him; that bush is old Jerry's last picket---his last camp.
Which he'd a mighty sight better played his hand out with me, even if I does ring in a trace-chain
on him at needed intervals.  Jerry jest nacherally starves to death for grass an' water.  An'
what's doubly hard the lovin' Tom, troo to the last, starves with him.  Thar's water within
two miles; but Tom declines it, stays an' starves with Jerry, an' the ravens an' the coyotes
picks their frames."

CHAPTER IX.

The Influence of Faro Nell.

"Thar's no doubt about it," observed the Old Cattleman, apropos of the fairer, better sex--for
woman was the gentle subject of our morning's talk; "thar's no doubt about it, females is a
refinin' an' ennoblin' inflooence; you-all can hazard your chips on that an' pile 'em higher
than Cook's Peak!  An' when Faro Nell prefers them requests, she's ondoubted moved of feelin's
of mercy.  They shore does her credit, said motives does, an' if she had asked Cherokee or
Jack Moore, or even Texas Thompson, things would have come off as effective an' a mighty sight
more discreet.  But since he's standin' thar handy, Nell ups an' recroots Dan Boggs on the
side of hoomanity, an' tharupon Dan goes trackin' in without doo reflection, an' sets the Mexicans
examples which, to give 'em a best deescription, is shore some bad.  It ain't Nell's fault,
but Dan is a gent of sech onusual impulses that you-all don't know wherever Dan will land none,
once you goes pokin' up his ha'r-hung sensibil'ties with su'gestions that is novel to his game.
Still, Nell can't he'p it; an' in view of what we knows to be the female record since ever
the world begins, I re-asserts onhesitatin' that the effects of woman is good.  She subdooes
the reckless, subjoogates the rebellious, sobers the friv'lous, burns the ground from onder
the indolent moccasins of that male she's roped up in holy wedlock's bonds, an' p'ints the
way to a higher, happier life.  That's whatever! an' this dramy of existence, as I once hears
Colonel Sterett say, would be a frost an' a failure an' bog plumb down at that, if you was
to cut out the leadin' lady roles an' ring up the curtain with nothin' but bucks in the cast.'

"Narrow an' contracted as you may deem said camp to be, Wolfville itse'f offers plenty proof
on this head.  Thar's Dave Tutt: Whatever is Dave, I'd like for to inquire, prior to Tucson
Jennie runnin' her wifely brand on to him an' redoocin' him to domesticity?  No, thar's nothin'
so evil about Dave neither, an' yet he has his little ways. For one thing, Dave's about as
extemporaneous a prop'sition as ever sets in a saddle, an' thar's times when you give Dave
licker an' convince him it's a o'casion for joobilation, an' you-all won't have to leave no
'call' with the clerk to insure yourse'f of bein' out early in the mornin.'  Son, Dave would
keep that camp settin' up all night.

"But once Dave comes onder the mitigatin' spells of Tucson Jennie, things is changed.  Tucson
Jennie knocks Dave's horns off doorin' the first two weeks; he gets staid an' circumspect an'
tharby plays better poker an' grows more urbane.

"Likewise does Benson Annie work mir'cles sim'lar in the conduct of that maverick French which
Enright an' the camp, to allay the burnin' excitement that's rendin' the outfit on account
of the Laundry War, herds into her lovin' arms.  Tenderfoot as he is, when we-all ups an' marries
him off that time, this French already shows symptoms of becomin' one of the most abandoned
sports in Arizona.  Benson Annie seizes him, purifies him, an' makes him white as snow.

"An' thar's Missis Rucker;--as troo a lady as ever bakes a biscuit! Even with the burdens of
the O.K. Restauraw upon her she still finds energy to improve old Rucker to that extent he
ups an' rides off towards the hills one mornin' an' never does come back no more.

"'Doc,' he says to Doc Peets, while he's fillin' a canteen in the Red Light prior to his start;
'I won't tell you what I'm aimin' to accomplish, because the Stranglers might regyard it as
their dooty to round me up.  But thar's something comin' to the public, Doc; so I yereby leaves
word that next week, or next month, or mebby later, if doubts is expressed of my fate, I'm
still flutterin' about the scenery some'ers an' am a long ways short of dead.  An' as I fades
from sight, Doc, I'll take a chance an' say that the clause in the Constitootion which allows
that all gents is free an' equal wasn't meant to incloode no married man.'  An' with these
croode bluffs Rucker chases forth for the Floridas.

"No, the camp don't do nothin'; the word gets passed 'round that old Rucker's gone prospectin'
an' that he will recur in our midst whenever thar's a reg'lar roll-call.  As for Missis Rucker,
personal, from all we can jedge by lookin' on--for thar's shore none of us who's that locoed
we ups an' asks--I don't reckon now she ever notices that Rucker's escaped.

"Yere's how it is the time when Faro Nell, her heart bleedin' for the sufferin's of dumb an'
he'pless brutes, employs Dan Boggs in errants of mercy an' Dan's efforts to do good gets ill-advised.
Not that Dan is easily brought so he regyards his play as erroneous; Enright has to rebooke
Dan outright in set terms an' assoome airs of severity before ever Dan allows he entertains
a doubt.

"'Suppose I does retire that Greaser's hand from cirk'lation?' says Dan, sort o' dispootatious
with Enright an' Doc Peets, who's both engaged in p'intin' out Dan's faults.  'Mexicans ain't
got no more need for hands than squinch owls has for hymn books.  They won't work; they never
uses them members except for dealin' monte or clawin' a guitar. I regyards a Mexican's hands
that a-way, when considered as feachers in his makeup, as sooperfluous.'

"'Dan, you shore is the most perverse sport!' says Enright, makin' a gesture of impatience
an' at the same time refillin' his glass in hopes of a ca'mer frame.  'This ain't so much a
question of hands as it's a question of taste.  Nell's requests is right, an' you're bound
to go about the rescoo of said chicken as the victim of crooelties.  Where you-all falls down
is on a system.  The method you invokes is impertinent.  Don't you say so, Doc?'

"'Which I shore does,' says Peets.  'Dan's conduct is absolootely oncouth.'

"Dan lays the basis for these strictures in the follow-in' fashion: It's a fieste with the
Mexicans--one of the noomerous saint's days they gives way to when every Greaser onbuckles
an' devotes himse'f to merriments--an' over in Chihuahua, as the Mexican part of the camp is
called, the sunburnt portion of Wolfville's pop'lation broadens into quite a time.   Thar's
hoss races an' monte an' mescal an' pulque, together with roode music sech as may be wrung
from primitive instruments like the guitar, the fiddle, an' tin cans half filled with stones.

"Faro Nell, who is only a child as you-all might say, an' ready to be engaged an' entertained
with childish things, goes trippin' over to size up the gala scene.

"Thar's a passel of young Mexicans who's Ridin' for the Chicken's Head. This yere is a sport
something like a Gander Pullin', same as we-all engages in on Thanksgivin' days an' Christmas,
back when I'm a boy in Tennessee.  You saveys a Gander Pullin'?  Son, you don't mean sech ignorance!
Thar must have been mighty little sunshine in the life of a yooth in the morose regions where
you was raised for you-all never to disport yourse'f, even as a spectator, at a Gander Pullin'!
It wouldn't surprise me none after that if you ups an' informs me you never shakes a fetlock
in that dance called money-musk.

"To the end that you be eddicated,--for it's better late than never,"--I'll pause concernin'
Boggs an' the Mexicans long enough to eloocidate of Gander Pullin's.

"As I su'gests, we onbends in this pastime at sech epocks as Christmas an' Thanksgivin.'  I
don't myse'f take actooal part in any Gander Pullin's.  Not that I'm too delicate, but I ain't
got no hoss.  Bein' a pore yooth, I spends the mornin' of my c'reer on foot, an' as a hoss
is a necessary ingreedient to a Gander Pullin', I never does stand in personal on the festival,
but is redooced to become a envy-bitten looker-on.

"Gander Pullin's is conducted near a tavern or a still house so's the assembled gents won't
want the inspiration befittin' both the season an' the scene, an' is commonly held onder the
auspices of the proprietor tharof.  Thar's a track marked out in a cirkle like a little racecourse
for the hosses to gallop on.  This course runs between two poles pinned into the ground; or
mebby it's two trees.  Thar's a rope stretched from pole to pole,--taut an' stiff she's stretched;
an' the gander who's the object of the meetin', with his neck an' head greased a heap lavish,
is hung from the rope by his two hind laigs.  As the gander hangs thar, what Colonel Sterett
would style 'the cynosure of every eye,' you'll notice that a gent by standin' high in the
stirrups can get a grip of the gander's head.

"As many as determines to distinguish themse'fs in the amoosement throws a two-bit piece into
a hat.  Most likely thar'll be forty partic'pants.  They then lines up, Injun file, an' goes
caperin' round the course, each in his place in the joyous procession.  As a gent goes onder
the rope he grabs for the gander's head; an' that party who's expert enough to bring it away
in his hand, wins the hat full of two-bit pieces yeretofore deescribed.

"Which, of course, no gent succeeds the first dash outen the box, as a gander's head is on
some good and strong; an' many a saddle gets emptied by virchoo of the back'ard yanks a party
gets.  But it's on with the dance!  They keeps whoopin' an' shoutin' an' ridin' the cirkle
an' grabbin' at the gander, each in his cheerful turn, ontil some strong or lucky party sweeps
away the prize, assoomes title to the two-bit pieces, goes struttin' to the licker room an'
buys nosepaint for the pop'lace tharwith.

"Shore, doorin' a contest a gent's got to keep ridin'; he's not allowed to pause an' dally
with the gander an' delay the game.  To see to this a brace of brawny sharps is stationed by
each pole with clubs in their willin' hands to reemonstrate with any hoss or gent who slows
down or stops as he goes onder the gander.

"Thar you have it, son; a brief but lively picture of a Gander Pullin' as pulled former in
blithe old Tennessee.  An' you'll allow, if you sets down to a ca'm, onja'ndiced study of the
sport, that a half hour of reasonable thrill might be expected to flow from it.  Gander Pullin's
is popular a lot when I'm a yearlin'; I knows that for shore; though in a age which grows effete
it's mighty likely if we-all goes back thar now, we'd find it fallen into disuse as a reelaxation.

"In Ridin' for the Chicken's Head, a Mexican don't hang up his prey none same as we-all does
at Gander Pullin's.  He buries it in the ground to sech degrees that nothin' but the head an'
neck protroodes. An' as the Mexicans goes flashin' by on their broncos, each in turn swings
down an' makes a reach for the chicken's head.  The experiment calls for a shore-enough rider;
as when a party is over on one side that a-way, an' nothin' to hold by but a left hand on the
saddlehorn an' a left spur caught in the cantle, any little old pull will fetch him out on
his head.

"This day when Faro Nell comes bulgin' up to amoose her young an' idle cur'osity with the gayeties
of Chihuahua, the Ridin' for the Chicken's Head is about to commence.  Which they're jest plantin'
the chicken. At first Nell don't savey, as she ain't posted deep on Mexican pastimes.  But
Nell is plenty quick mental; as, actin' look-out for Cherokee's bank, she's bound to be.  Wherefore
Nell don't study the preeliminaries long before she gets onto the roodiments of some idee concernin'
the jocund plans of the Greasers.

"At last the chicken is buried, an' thar's nothin' in sight but its anxious head.  Except that
it can turn an' twist its neck some, it's fixed in the ground as firm an' solid as the stumps
of a mesquite bush.

"The first Greaser--he's a gaudy party with more colours than you could count in any rainbow--is
organisin' for a rush.  He's pickin' up his reins an' pushin' his moccasins deep into his tappedaries,
when, as he gives his cayouse the spur, the beauty of Ridin' for the Chicken's Head bursts
full on Faro Nell.  Comin' on her onexpected, Nell don't see no pleasure in it.  It don't present
the attractions which so alloores the heart of a Greaser.  Without pausin' to think, an' feelin'
shocked over the fate that's ridin' down on the buried chicken, Nell grips her little paws
convulsive an' snaps her teeth.  It's then her eye catches Dan Boggs, who's contemplatin' details
an' awaitin' the finish with vivid interest.

"'Oh, Dan!' says Nell, grabbin' Dan's arm, 'I don't want that chicken hurt none!  Can't you-all
make 'em stop?'

"'Shore!' says Dan, prompt to Nell's cry.  'I preevails on 'em to cease easy.'

"As Dan says this, that radiant cavalier is sweepin' upon the pore chicken like the breath
of destiny.  He's bendin' from the saddle to make a swoop as Dan speaks.  Thar ain't a moment
to lose an' Dan's hand goes to his gun.

"'Watch me stop him,' says Dan; an' as he does, his bullet makes rags of the Mexican's hand
not a inch from the chicken's head.

"For what time you-all might need to slop out a drink, the onlookin' Mexicans stands still.
Then the stoopefyin' impressions made by Dan's pistol practice wears off an' a howl goes up
like a hundred wolves.  At this Dan gets his number-two gun to b'ar, an' with one in each hand,
confronts the tan-coloured multitoode.

"'That's shore a nice shot, Nell!' says Dan over his shoulder, ropin' for the congratoolations
he thinks is comin.'

"But Nell don't hear him; she's one hundred yards away an' streakin' it for the Red Light like
a shootin' star.  She tumbles in on us with the brake off like a stage-coach downhill.

"'Dan's treed Chihuahua!' gasps Nell, as she heads straight for Cherokee; 'you-all better rustle
over thar plumb soon!'

"Cherokee jumps an' grabs his hardware where they're layin' onder the table.  Bein' daylight
an' no game goin', an' the day some warm besides, he ain't been wearin' 'em, bein' as you-all
might say in negligee.  Cherokee buckles on his belts in a second an' starts; the rest of us,
however, since we're more ackerately garbed, don't lose no time an' is already half way to Dan.

"It ain't a two-minute run an' we arrives in time.  Thar's no more blood, though thar might
have been, for we finds Dan frontin' up to full two hundred Greasers, their numbers increasin'
and excitement runnin' a heap high.  We cuts in between Dan an' Mexican public opinion and
extricates that over-vol'tile sport.

"But Dan won't return ontil he exhoomes the chicken, which is still bobbin' an' twistin' its
onharmed head where the Mexican buries it. Dan digs it up an' takes it by the laigs; Enright
meanwhile cussin' him out, fervent an' nervous, for he fears some locoed Greaser will cut loose
every moment an' mebby crease a gent, an' so leave it incumbent on the rest of us to desolate
Chihuahua.

"'It's for Nell,' expostulates Dan, replyin' to Enright's criticisms. 'I knows she wants it
by the way she grabs my coat that time. Moreover, from the tones she speaks in, I reckons she
wants it alive. Also, I don't discern no excoose for this toomult neither; which you-all is
shore the most peevish bunch, Enright, an' that's whatever!'

"'Peevish or no,' retorts Enright, 'as a jedge of warjigs I figgers that we gets here jest
in time.  Thar you be, up ag'inst the entire tribe, an' each one with a gun.  It's one of the
deefects of a Colt's six-shooter that it hits as hard an' shoots as troo for a Injun or a Greaser
as it does for folks.  Talk about us bein' peevish! what do you-all reckon would have been
results if we hadn't cut in on the baile at the time we does?'

"'Nothin',' says Dan, with tones of soopreme vanity, at the same time dustin' the dirt off
Nell's chicken, 'nothing except I'd hung crape on half the dobies in Chihuahua.'

"About two hours after, when things ag'in simmers to the usual, an' Nell is makin' her chicken
a coop out to the r'ar of the Red Light, Enright gives a half laugh.

"'Dan,' says Enright, 'when I reflects on the hole we drug you out of, an' the way you-all
gets in, you reminds me of that Thomas Benton dog I owns when I'm a yoothful child on the Cumberland.
Which Thomas Benton that a-way is a mighty industrious dog an' would turn over a quarter-section
of land any afternoon diggin' out a ground-hawg.  But thar's this drawback to Thomas Benton
which impairs his market valyoo. Some folks used to regyard it as a foible; but it's worse,
it's a deefect.  As I remarks, this Thomas Benton dog would throw his whole soul into the work,
an' dig for a groundhawg like he ain't got another dollar.  But thar's this pecooliarity: After
that Thomas Benton dog has done dug out the ground-hawg for a couple of hours, you-all is forced
to get a spade an' dig out that Thomas Benton dog.  He's dead now these yere forty years, but
if he's livin' I'd shore change his name an' rebrand him "Dan'l Boggs."'"

CHAPTER X.

The Ghost of the Bar-B-8.

"Spectres?  Never!  I refooses 'em my beliefs utter"; and with these emphatic words the Old
Cattleman tasted his liquor thoughtfully on his tongue.  The experiment was not satisfactory;
and he despatched his dark retainer Tom for lemons and sugar.  "An' you-all might better tote
along some hot water, too;" he commanded.  "This nosepaint feels raw an' over-fervid; a leetle
dilootion won't injure it none."

"But about ghosts?" I persisted.

"Ghosts?" he retorted.  "I never does hear of but one; that's a apparition which enlists the
attentions of Peets and Old Man Enright a lot.  It's a spectre that takes to ha'ntin' about
one of Enright's Bar-B-8 sign-camps, an' scarin' up the cattle an' drivin' 'em over a precipice,
an' all to Enright's disaster an' loss.  Nacherally, Enright don't like this spectral play;
an' him an' Peets lays for the wraith with rifles, busts its knee some, an' Peets ampytates
its laig.  Then they throws it loose; allowin' that now it's only got one lai'g, the visitations
will mighty likely cease.  Moreover Enright regyards ampytation that a-way, as punishment enough.
Which I should shore allow the same myse'f!

"It ain't much of a tale.  It turns out like all sperit stories; when you approaches plumb
close an' jumps sideways at 'em an' seizes 'em by the antlers, the soopernacheral elements
sort o' bogs down.

"It's over mebby fifty miles to the southeast of Wolfville, some'ers in the fringes of the
Tres Hermanas that thar's a sign-camp of Enright's brand.  Thar's a couple of Enright's riders
holdin' down this corner of the Bar-B-8 game, an' one evenin' both of 'em comes squanderin'
in,--ponies a-foam an' faces pale as milk,--an' puts it up they don't return to that camp no more.

"'Because she's ha'nted,' says one; 'Jim an' me both encounters this yere banshee an' it's
got fire eyes.  Also, itse'f and pony is constructed of bloo flames.  You can gamble!  I don't
want none of it in mine; an' that's whatever!'

"Any gent can see that these yooths is mighty scared.  Enright elicits their yarn only after
pourin' about a quart of nosepaint into 'em.

"It looks like on two several o'casions that a handful of cattle gets run over a steep bluff
from the mesa above.  The fall is some sixty feet in the cl'ar, an' when them devoted cattle
strikes the bottom it's plenty easy to guess they're sech no longer, an' thar's nothin' left
of 'em but beef.  These beef drives happens each time in the night; an' the cattle must have
been stampeded complete to make the trip.  Cattle, that a-way, ain't goin' to go chargin' over
a high bluff none onless their reason is onhinged.  No, the coyotes an' the mountain lions
don't do it; they never chases cattle, holdin' 'em in fear an' tremblin.' These mountain lions
prounces down on colts like a mink on a settin' hen, but never calves or cattle.

"It's after the second beef killin' when the two riders allows they'll do some night herdin'
themse'fs an' see if they solves these pheenomenons that's cuttin' into the Bar-B-8.

"'An' it's mebby second drink time after midnight,' gasps the cow-puncher who's relatin' the
adventures, 'an' me an' Jim is experimentin' along the aige of the mesa, when of a suddent
thar comes two steers, heads down, tails up, locoed absoloote they be; an' flashin' about in
the r'ar of 'em rides this flamin' cow-sperit on its flamin' cayouse.  Shore! he heads 'em
over the cliff; I hears 'em hit the bottom of the canyon jest as I falls off my bronco in a
fit.  As soon as ever I comes to an' can scramble into that Texas saddle ag'in, me an' Jim
hits the high places in the scenery, in a fervid way, an' yere we-all be!  An' you hear me,
gents, I don't go back to that Bar-B-8 camp no more.  I ain't ridin' herd on apparitions; an'
whenever ghosts takes to romancin' about in the cow business, that lets me out.'

"'I reckons,' says Enright, wrinklin' up his brows, 'I'll take a look into this racket myse'f.'

"'An' if you-all don't mind none, Enright,' says Peets, 'I'll get my chips in with yours. 
Thar's been no one shot for a month in either Red Dog or Wolfville an' I'm reedic'lous free
of patients.  An' if the boys'll promise to hold themse'fs an' their guns in abeyance for a
week or so, an' not go framin' up excooses for my presence abrupt, I figgers that a few days
idlin' about the ranges, an' mebby a riot or two roundin' up this cow-demon, will expand me
an' do me good.'

"'You're lookin' for trouble, Doc,' says Colonel Sterett, kind o' laughin' at Peets.  'You
reminds me of a onhappy sport I encounters long ago in Looeyville.'

"'An' wherein does this Bloo Grass party resemble me?' asks Peets.

"'It's one evenin',' says Colonel Sterett, 'an' a passel of us is settin' about in the Gait
House bar, toyin' with our beverages.  Thar's a smooth, good-lookin' stranger who's camped
at a table near.  Final, he yawns like he's shore weary of life an' looks at us sharp an' cur'ous.
Then he speaks up gen'ral as though he's addressin' the air. "This is a mighty dull town!"
he says.  "Which I've been yere a fortnight an' I ain't had no fight as yet."  An' he continyoos
to look us over plenty mournful.

"'"You-all needn't gaze on us that a-way," says a gent named Granger; "you can set down a stack
on it, you ain't goin' to pull on no war with none of us."

"'"Shore, no!" says the onhappy stranger.  Then he goes on apol'getic; "Gents, I'm onfort'nately
constitootcd.  Onless I has trouble at reasonable intervals it preys on me.  I've been yere
in your town two weeks an' so far ain't seen the sign.  Gents, it's beginnin' to tell; an'
if any of you-all could direct me where I might get action it would be kindly took."

"'"If you're honin' for a muss," says Granger, "all you has to do is go a couple of blocks
to the east, an' then five to the no'th, an' thar on the corner you'll note a mighty prosperous
s'loon.  You caper in by the side door; it says FAMILY ENTRANCE over this yere portal.  Sa'nter
up to the bar, call for licker, drink it; an' then you remark to the barkeep, casooal like,
that you're thar to maintain that any outcast who'll sell sech whiskey ain't fit to drink with
a nigger or eat with a dog.  That's all; that barkeep'll relieve you of the load that's burdenin'
your nerves in about thirty seconds.  You'll be the happiest sport in Looeyville when he gets
through."

"'"But can't you come an' p'int out the place," coaxes the onhappy stranger of Granger.  He's
all wropped up in what Granger tells him. "I don't know my way about good, an' from your deescriptions
I shorely wouldn't miss visitin' that resort for gold an' precious stones.  Come an' show me,
pard; I'll take you thar in a kerriage."

"'At that Granger consents to guide the onhappy stranger.  They drives over an' Granger stops
the outfit, mebby she's fifty yards from the door.  He p'ints it out to the onhappy stranger sport.

"'Come with me," says the onhappy stranger, as he gets outen the kerriage.  "Come on; you-all
don't have to fight none.  I jest wants you to watch me.  Which I'm the dandiest warrior for
the whole length of the Ohio!"

"'But Granger is firm that he won't; he's not inquisitive, he says, an' will stay planted right
thar on the r'ar seat an' await deevelopments. With that, the onhappy stranger sport goes sorrowfully
for'ard alone, an' gets into the gin-mill by the said FAMILY ENTRANCE.  Granger' sets thar
with his head out an' y'ears cocked lookin' an' listenin'.

"'Everything's plenty quiet for a minute.  Then slam! bang! bing! crash! the most flagrant
hubbub breaks forth!  It sounds like that store's comin' down.  The racket rages an' grows
worse.  Thar's a smashin' of glass.  The lights goes out, while customers comes boundin' an'
skippin' forth from the FAMILY ENTRANCE like frightened fawns.  At last the uproars dies down
ontil they subsides complete.

"'Granger is beginnin' to upbraid himse'f for not gettin the onhappy stranger's address, so's
he could ship home the remainder.  In the midst of Granger's se'f-accoosations, the lights
in the gin-mill begins to burn ag'in, one by one.  After awhile, she's reilloominated an' ablaze
with old-time glory.  It's then the FAMILY ENTRANCE opens an' the onhappy stranger sport emerges
onto the sidewalk.  He's in his shirtsleeves, an' a satisfied smile wreathes his face.  He
shore looks plumb content!

"'"Get out of the kerriage an' come in, pard," he shouts to Granger. "Come on in a whole lot!
I'd journey down thar an' get you, but I can't leave; I'm tendin' bar!"'

"'You're shore right, Colonel,' says Peets, when Colonel Sterett ends the anecdote, 'the feelin'
of that onhappy stranger sport is parallel to mine.  Ghosts is new to me; an' I'm goin' pirootin'
off with Enright on this demon hunt an' see if I can't fetch up in the midst of a trifle of
nerve-coolin' excitement.'

"The ghost tales of the stampeded cow-punchers excites Dan Boggs a heap.  After Enright an'
Peets has organised an' gone p'inting out for the ha'nted Bar-B-8 sign-camp to investigate
the spook, Dan can't talk of nothin' else.

"'Them's mighty dead game gents, Enright an' Doc Peets is!' says Dan. 'I wouldn't go searchin'
for no sperits more'n I'd write letters to rattlesnakes!  I draws the line at intimacies with
fiends.'

"'But mebby this yere is a angel,' says Faro Nell, from her stool alongside of Cherokee Hall.

"'Not criticisin' you none, Nell,' says Dan, 'Cherokee himse'f will tell you sech surmises
is reedic'lous.  No angel is goin' to visit Arizona for obvious reasons.  An' ag'in, no angel's
doo to go skally-hootin' about after steers an' stampeedin' 'em over brinks. It's ag'in reason;
you bet!  That blazin' wraith, that a-way, is a shore-enough demon!  An' as for me, personal,
I wouldn't cut his trail for a bunch of ponies!

"'Be you-all scared of ghosts, Dan?' asks Faro Nell.

"'Be I scared of ghosts?' says Dan.  'Which I wish, I could see a ghost an' show you!  I don't
want to brag none, Nellie, but I'll gamble four for one, an' go as far as you likes, that if
you was to up an' show me a ghost right now, I wouldn't stop runnin' for a month.  But what
appals me partic'lar,' goes on Dan, 'about Peets an' Enright, is they takes their guns.  Now
a ghost waxes onusual indignant if you takes to shootin' him up with guns.  No, it don't hurt
him; but he regyards sech demonstrations as insults.  It's like my old pap says that time about
the Yankees.  My old pap is a colonel with Gen'ral Price, an' on this evenin' is engaged in
leadin' one of the most intrepid retreats of the war.  As he's prancin' along at the head of
his men where a great commander belongs, he's shore scandalised by hearin' his r'ar gyard firin'
on the Yanks.  So he rides back, my old pap does, an' he says: "Yere you-all eediots!  Whatever
do you mean by shootin' at them Yankees?  Don't you know it only makes 'em madder?"  An' that,'
concloods Dan, 'is how I feels about spectres.  I wouldn't go lammin' loose at 'em with no
guns; it only makes 'em madder.'

"It's the next day, an' Peets an' Enright is organised in the ha'nted sign-camp of the Bar-B-8.
Also, they've been lookin' round.  By ridin' along onder the face of the precipice, they comes,
one after t'other, on what little is left of the dead steers.  What strikes 'em as a heap pecooliar
is that thar's no bones or horns.  Two or three of the hoofs is kickin' about, an' Enright
picks up one the coyotes overlooks.  It shows it's been cut off at the fetlock j'int by a knife.

"'This spectre,' says Enright, passin' the hoof to Peets, 'packs a bowie; an' he likewise butchers
his prey.  Also, ondoubted, he freights the meat off some'ers to his camp, which is why we
don't notice no big bones layin' 'round loose.'  Then Enright scans the grass mighty scroopulous;
an' shore enough! thar's plenty of pony tracks printed into the soil.  'That don't look so
soopernacheral neither,' says Enright, p'intin' to the hoof-prints.

"'Them's shorely made by a flesh an' blood pony,' says Peets.  'An' from their goin' some deep
into the ground, I dedooces that said cayouse is loaded down with what weight of beef an' man
it can stagger onder.'

"That evenin' over their grub Enright an' Peets discusses the business. Thar's a jimcrow Mexican
plaza not three miles off in the hills.  Both of 'em is aware of this hamlet, an' Peets, partic'lar,
is well acquainted with a old Mexican sharp who lives thar--he's a kind o' schoolmaster among
'em--who's mighty cunnin' an' learned.  His name is Jose Miguel.

"'An' I'm beginnin' to figger,' says Peets, 'that this ghostly rider is the foxy little Jose
Miguel.  Which I've frequent talked with him; an' he saveys enough about drugs an' chemicals
to paint up with phosphorus an' go surgin' about an' stampedin' cattle over bluffs.  It's a
mighty good idee from his standp'int.  He can argue that the cattle kills themse'fs--sort o'
commits sooicide inadvertent--an' if we-all trades up on him with the beef, he insists on his
innocence, an' puts it up that his cuttin' in on the play after said cattle done slays themse'fs
injures nobody but coyotes.'

"'Doc,' coincides Enright, after roominatin' in silence, 'Doc, the longer I ponders, the more
them theories seems sagacious.  That enterprisin' Greaser is jest about killin' my beef an'
sellin' it to the entire plaza.  Not only does this ghost play opp'rate to stampede the cattle
an' set 'em runnin' cimmaron an' locoed so they'll chase over the cliffs to their ends, but
it serves to scare my cow-punchers off the range, which last, ondoubted, this Miguel looks
on as a deesideratum.  However, it's goin' to be good an' dark to-night, an' if we-all has
half luck I reckons that we fixes him.'

"It's full two hours after midnight an' while thar's stars overhead thar's no moon; along the
top of the mesa it's as dark as the inside of a jug.  Peets an' Enright is Injunin' about on
the prowl for the ghost.  They don't much reckon it'll be abroad, as mebby the plaza has beef
enough.

"'However, by to-morry night,' says Enright in a whisper, 'or at the worst, by the night after,
we're shore to meet up with this marauder.'

"'Hesh!' whispers Peets, at the same time stoppin' Enright with his hand, 'he's out to-night!'

"An' thar for shore is something like a dim bloo light movin' across the plains.  Now an' then,
two brighter lights shows in spots like the blazes of candles; them's the fire eyes the locoed
cowboys tells of. Whatever it is, whether spook or Greaser, it's quarterin' the ground like
one of these huntin' dogs.  Its gait is a slow canter.

"'He's on the scout,' says Enright,' 'tryin' to start a steer or two in the dark; but he ain't
located none yet.'

"Enright an' Peets slides to the ground an' hobbles their broncos. They don't aim to have 'em
go swarmin' over no bluffs in any blindness of a first surprise.  When the ponies is safe,
they bends low an' begins makin' up towards the ground on which this bloo-shimmerin' shadow
is ha'ntin' about.  Things comes their way; they has luck. They've done crope about forty rods
when the ghost heads for 'em.  They can easy tell he's comin', for the fire eyes shows all
the time an' not by fits an' starts as former.  As the bloo shimmer draws nearer they makes
out the vague shadows of a man on a hoss.  Son, she's shore plenty ghostly as a vision, an'
Enright allows later, it's no marvel the punchers vamoses sech scenes.

"'How about it,' whispers Peets; 'shall I do the shootin'?'

"'Which your eyes is younger,' says Enright.  'You cut loose; an' I'll stand by to back the
play.  Only aim plenty low.  You can't he'p over-shootin' in the dark.  Hold as low as his
stirrup.'

"Peets pulls himse'f up straight as a saplin' an' runs his left hand along the bar'l as far
as his arm'll reach.  An' he hangs long on the aim as shootin' in the dark ain't no cinch.
If this ghost is a bright ghost it would be easy.  But he ain't; he's bloo an' dim like washed
out moonlight, or when it's jest gettin' to be dawn.  Enright's twenty yards to one side so
as to free himse'f of Peet's smoke in case he has to make a second shot.

"But Peets calls the turn.  With the crack of that Sharp's of his, the ghost sets up sech a
screech it proves he ain't white an' also that he'll live through the evenin's events.  As
the spectre yelps, the bloo cayouse goes over on its head an' neck an' then falls dead on its
side. The lead which only smashes the spectre's knee to splinters goes plumb through the pony's
heart.

"As Peets foresees, the ghost ain't none other than the wise little Jose Miguel, schoolmaster,
who's up on drugs an' chemicals.  The bloo glimmer is phosphorus; an' the fire eyes is two
of these little old lamps like miners packs in their caps.

"Enright an' Peets strolls up; this Miguel is groanin' an' mournin' an' cryin' 'Marie, Madre
de Dios!'  When he sees who downs him, he drags himse'f to Enright an' begs a heap abject for
his life.  With that, Enright silently lets down the hammer of his rifle.

"Peets when the sun comes up enjoys himse'f speshul with the opp'ration.  Peets is fond of
ampytations, that a-way, and he lops off said limb with zest an' gusto.

"'I shore deplores, Jose,' says Peets, 'to go shortenin' up a fellow scientist like this. 
But thar's no he'pin' it; fate has so decreed. Also, as some comfort to your soul, I'll explain
to Sam Enright how you won't ride much when I gets you fairly trimmed.  Leastwise, after I'm
done prunin' you, thar won't be nothin' but these yere woman's saddles that you'll fit, an'
no gent, be he white or be he Greaser, can work cattle from a side-saddle.' An' Peets, hummin'
a roundelay, cuts merrily into the wounded member."

CHAPTER XI.

Tucson Jennie's Correction.

"Doc Peets, son," said the Old Cattleman, while his face wore the look of decent gravity it
ever donned when that man of medicine was named, "Doc Peets has his several uses.  Aside from
him bein' a profound sharp on drugs, an' partic'lar cowboy drugs, he's plenty learned in a
gen'ral way, an' knows where every kyard lays in nacher's deck, from them star-flecked heavens
above to the earth beneath, an'--as Scripter puts it--to the 'waters onder the earth.'  It's
a good scheme to have a brace of highly eddicated gents, same as Colonel Sterett an' Doc Peets,
sort o' idlin' 'round your camp.  Thar's times when a scientist, or say, a lit'rary sport comes
bluffin' into Wolfville; an' sech folks is a mighty sight too deep for Boggs an' me an' Tutt.
If we're left plumb alone with a band of them book-read shorthorns like I deescribes, you-all
sees yourse'f, they're bound to go spraddlin' East ag'in, an' report how darkened Wolfville
is.  But not after they locks horns with Doc Peets or Colonel Sterett.  Wherefore, whenever
the camp's invaded by any over-enlightened people who's gone too far in schools for the rest
of us to break even with, we ups an' plays Doc Peets or Colonel Sterett onto 'em; an' the way
either of them gents would turn in an' tangle said visitors up mental don't bother 'em a bit.
That's straight; Peets an' the Colonel is our refooge; they're our protectors; an' many a time
an' oft, have I beheld 'em lay for some vain-glorious savant who's got a notion the Southwest,
that a-way, is a region of savagery where the folks can't even read an' write none, an' they'd
rope, throw, an' hawgtie him--verbal, I means--an' brand his mem'ry with the red-hot fact that
he's wrong an' been wadin' in error up to the saddle-girths touchin' the intellectooal attainments
of good old Arizona.  Shore,--Doc Peets has other uses than drugs, an' he discharges 'em.

"Now that I thinks of the matter, it's Doc Peets who restores Dave Tutt to full standin' with
Tucson Jennie, the time she begins to neglect Dave. You see, the trouble is this a-way: It
really starts--leastwise I allers so believes--in Dave's beginnin' wrong with Tucson Jennie.
Troo, as I confesses to you frequent yeretofore, I ain't married none myse'f; still, I've been
livin' a likely number of years, an' has nacherally witnessed a whole lot touchin' other gents
an' their wives; an' sech experiences is bound to breed concloosions.  An' while I may be wrong,
for these yere views is nothin' more than a passel of ontested theeries with me, it's my beliefs
that thar's two attitoodes, speakin' gen'ral, which a gent assoomes toward his bride.  Either
he deals with her on what we-all will call the buck-squaw system, or he turns the game about
complete, an' organises his play on the gentleman-lady system.  In the latter, the gent waits
on his wife; he comes an' he goes, steps high or soft, exactly as she commands.  She gives
the orders; an' he rides a pony to death execootin' 'em, an' no reemonstrances nor queries.
That wife is range an' round-up boss for her outfit.

"But the buck-squaw system is after all more hooman an' satisfactory. It's opposite to the
other.  The gent is reesponsible for beef on the hook an' flour in the bar'l.  He's got to
provide the blankets, make good ag'in the household's hunger, an' see to it thar's allers wood
an' water within easy throw of every camp he pitches.  Beyond that, however, the gent who's
playin' the buck-squaw system don't wander.  When he's in camp, he distinguishes himse'f by
doin' nothin'.  He wrops himse'f in his blankets, camps down by the fire, while his wife rustles
his chuck an' fills his pipe for him.  At first glance, this yere buck-squaw system might strike
a neeophyte as a mighty brootal scheme.  Jest the same, it'll eemerge winner twenty times to
the gentleman-lady system's once. The women folks like it.  Which they'll pretend they prefers
the gentleman-lady system, where they sets still an' the gent attends on 'em; but don't you
credit it, none whatever.  It's the good old patriarchal, buck-squaw idee, where the gent does
nothin' an' the lady goes prancin' about like the ministerin' angel which she is, that tickles
her to death. I states ag'in, that it's my notion, Dave who begins with Tucson Jennie--they
bein' man an' wife--on the gentleman-lady system, tharby hatches cold neglect for himse'f.
An' if it ain't for the smooth savey of Doc Peets, thar's no sport who could foretell the disastrous
end. Dave, himse'f thinks he'd have had eventool to resign his p'sition as Jennie's husband
an' quit.

"Which I've onfolded to you prior of Jennie's gettin' jealous of Dave touchin' that English
towerist female; but this yere last trouble ain't no likeness nor kin to that.  Them gusts
of jealousy don't do no harm nohow; nor last the day.  They're like thunder showers; brief
an' black enough, but soon over an' leavin' the world brighter.

"This last attitoode of Jennie towards Dave is one of abandonment an' onthinkin' indifference
that a-way.  It begins hard on the fetlocks of that interestin' event, thrillin' to every proud
Wolfville heart, the birth of Dave's only infant son, Enright Peets Tutt.  Which I never does
cross up with no one who deems more of her progeny than Jennie does of the yoothful Enright
Peets.  A cow's solicitoode concernin' her calf is chill regyard compared tharwith.  Jennie
hangs over Enright Peets like some dew-jewelled hollyhock over a gyarden fence; you'd think
he's a roast apple; an' I don't reckon now, followin' that child's advent, she ever sees another
thing in Arizona but jest Enright Peets.  He's the whole check-rack--the one bet that wins
on the layout of the possible--an' Jennie proceeds to conduct herse'f accordin'.  It's a good
thing mebby for Enright Peets; I won't set camped yere an' say it ain't; but it's mighty hard
on Dave.

"Jennie not only neglects Dave, she turns herse'f loose frequent an' assails him.  If he shows
up in his wigwam walkin' some emphatic, Jennie'll be down on him like a fallin' star an' accoose
him of wakin' Enright Peets.

"'An' if you-all wakes him,' says Jennie to Dave, sort o' domineerin' at him with her forefinger,
'he'll be sick; an' if he gets sick, he'll die; an' if he dies, you'll be a murderer--the heartless
deestroyer of your own he'pless offspring,--which awful deed I sometimes thinks you're p'intin'
out to pull off.'  An' then Jennie would put her apron over her head an' shed tears a heap;
while Dave--all harrowed up an' onstrung--would come stampedin' down to the Red Light an' get
consolation from Black Jack by the quart.

"That's the idee, son; it's impossible to go into painful details, 'cause I ain't in Dave's
or Jennie's confidence enough to round 'em up; but you onderstands what I means.  Jennie's
forever hectorin' an' pesterin' Dave about Enright Peets; an' beyond that she don't pay no
more heed, an' don't have him no more on her mind, than if he's one of these yere little jimcrow
ground-owls you-all sees inhabitin' about dissoloote an' permiscus with prairie-dogs.  What's
the result?  Dave's sperits begins to sink; he takes to droopin' about listless an' onregyardful;
an' he's that low an' onhappy his nosepaint don't bring him no more of comfort than if he's
a graven image.  Why, it's the saddest thing I ever sees in Wolfville!

"We-all observes how Dave's dwindlin' an' pinin' an' most of us has a foggy onderstandin' of
the trooth.  But what can we do?  If thar's ever a aggregation of sports who's powerless, utter,
to come to the rescoo of a comrade in a hole, it's Enright an' Moore an' Boggs an' Texas Thompson
an' Cherokee an' me, doorin' them days when that neglect of Tucson Jennie's is makin' pore
Dave's burdens more'n he can b'ar.  Shore, we consults; but that don't come to nothin' ontil
the o'casion when Doc Peets takes the tangle in ser'ous hand.

"Thar's a day dawns when Missis Rucker gets exasperated over Dave's ill-yoosage.  Missis Rucker
is a sperited person an' she canters over an' onloads her opinions on Tucson Jennie.  Commonly,
these yere ladies can't think too much of one another; but on this one division of the house
of Tutt, Missis Rucker goes out on Dave's angle of the game.  An' you-all should have seen
the terror it inspires when Missis Rucker declar's her hostile intentions.

"It's in the O.K. restauraw, when Missis Rucker, who's feedin' us our mornin' flap-jacks an'
salt hoss as usual, turns to Old Man Enright, an' says:

"'As soon as ever I've got the last drunkard fed an' outen the house, I'm goin' to put on my
shaker an' go an' tell that Tucson Jennie Tutt what's on my mind.  I shore never sees a woman
change more than Jennie since the days when she cooks for me in this yere very restauraw an'
lays plans an' plots to lure Dave into wedlock.  I will say that Jennie, nacheral, is a good
wife; but the fashion, wherein she tromples on Dave an' his rights is a disgrace to her sex,
an' I'm goin' to deevote a hour this mornin' to callin' Jennie's attention tharunto.'

"'Missis Rucker is a mighty intrepid lady,' says Enright, when we goes over to the New York
store followin' feed.  'I'd no more embrace them chances she's out to tackle than I'd go dallyin'
about a wronged grizzly. But jest the same, I'd give a stack of reds if Peets is here!  When
did he say he'd be back from Tucson?'

"'The Doc don't allow he'll come trailin' in ag'in,' says Dan Boggs, 'ontil day after to-morry.
Which this female dooel will be plumb over by then, an' most likely the camp a wrack.'

"While we-all stands thar gazin' on each other, enable to su'gest anything to meet the emergency,
Texas Thompson's pony is brought up from the corral, saddled an' bridled, an' ready for the trail.

"'Well, gents,' says Texas, when he sees his hoss is come, 'I reckons I'll say adios an' pull
my freight.  I'll be back in a week.'

"'Wherever be you p'intin' for?' asks Cherokee Hall.  'Ain't this goin' of yours some sudden?'

"'It is a trifle hasty,' says Texas; 'but do you cimmarons think I'm goin' to linger yere after
Missis Rucker gives notice she's preparin' to burn the ground around Tucson Jennie about Dave?
Gents, I don't pack the nerve!  I ain't lived three years with my former wife who gets that
Laredo divorce I once or twice adverts to, an' not know enough not to get caught out on no
sech limb as this.  No, sir; I sees enough of woman an' her ways to teach me that now ain't
no time to be standin' about irresoloote an' ondecided, an' I'm goin' to dig out for Tucson,
you bet, ontil this uprisin' subsides.'

"This example of Texas scares us up a whole lot; the fact is, it stampedes us; an' without
a further word of argyment, the whole band makes a break for the corral, throws saddles onto
the swiftest ponies, an' in two minutes we're lost in that cloud of alkali dust we kicks up
down the trail toward the no'th.

"'Which I won't say that this exodus is necessary,' observes Enright, when ten miles out we
slows up to a road gait to breathe our ponies, 'but I thinks on the whole it's safer.  Besides,
I oughter go over to Tucson anyway on business.'

"The rest of us don't make no remarks nor excooses; but every gent is feelin' like a great
personal peril has blown by.

"The next day, we rounds up Doc Peets, an' he encourages us so that we concloods to return
an' make a size-up of results.

"'I shore hopes we finds Dave safe.' says Dan Boggs.

"'It's even money,' says Jack Moore, 'that Dave pulls through.  Dave's a mighty wary sport
when worst comes to worst; an' as game as redhead ants.'

"'That's all right about Dave bein' game,' retorts Dan, 'but this yere's a time when Dave ain't
got no show.  I says ag'in, I trust he retains decision of character sufficient to go hide
out doorin' the storm.  It ain't no credit to us that we forgets to bring him along.'

"'No; thar wasn't no harm done,' says Faro Nell, who reports progress to us after we rounds
up in the Red Light followin' our return.  Nell's a brave girl an' stands a pat hand when the
rest of us vamosed that time. 'Thar ain't no real trouble.  Missis Rucker merely sets fire
to Jennie about the way she maltreats Dave; an' she says Jennie's drivin' him locoed, an' no
wonder.  Also, she lets on she don't see whatever Dave marries Jennie for anyhow!

"'At that, Jennie comes back an' reminds Missis Rucker how she herse'f done treats Mister Rucker
that turrible he goes cavortin' off an' seeks safety among the Apaches.  An' so they keeps
on slingin' it back'ards an' for'ards for mebby two hours, an' me ha'ntin' about to chunk in
a word. Then, final, they cries an' makes up; an' then they both concedes that one way an'
another they're the best two people each other ever sees.  At this juncture,' concloods Nell,
'I declar's myse'f in on the play; an' we-all three sets down an' admires Enright Peets an'
visits an' has a splendid afternoon.'

"'An' wherever doorin' this emute is Dave?' asks Enright.

"'Oh, Dave?' says Nell.  'Why he's lurkin' about outside som'ers in a furtive, surreptitious
way; but he don't molest us none.  Which, now I remembers, Dave don't even come near us none
at all.'

"'I should say not!' says Texas Thompson, plenty emphatic.  'Dave ain't quite that witless.'

"'Now, gents,' remarks Doc Peets, when Nell is done, an' his tones is confident like he's certain
of his foothold, 'since things has gone thus far I'll sa'nter into the midst of these domestic
difficulties an' adjust 'em some.  I've thought up a s'lootion; an' it's apples to ashes that
inside of twenty-four hours I has Jennie pettin' an' cossetin' Dave to beat four of a kind.
Leave this yere matter to me entire.'

"We-all can't see jest how Peets is goin' to work these mir'cles; still, sech is our faith,
we believes.  We decides among ourse'fs, however, that if Peets does turn this pacific trick
it'll ondoubted be the crownin' glory of his c'reer.

"After Peets hangs up his bluff, we goes about strainin' eyes an' y'ears for any yells or signal
smokes that denotes the advent of said changes. An', son, hard as it is to credit, it comes
to pass like Peets prognosticates.  By next evenin' a great current of tenderness for Dave
goes over Jennie all at once.  She begins to call him 'Davy'--a onheard of weakness!--an' hovers
about him askin' whatever he thinks he needs; in fact, she becomes that devoted, it looks like
the little Enright Peets'll want he'p next to play his hand for him.  That's the trooth: Jennie
goes mighty clost to forgettin' Enright Peets now an' then in her wifely anxieties concernin' Dave.

"As for Dave himse'f, he don't onderstand his sudden an' onmerited pop'larity; but wearin'
a dazed grin of satisfied ignorance, that a-way, he accepts the sityooation without askin'
reasons, an' proceeds to profit tharby.  That household is the most reeconciled model fam'ly
outfit in all broad Arizona.  An' it so continyoos to the end.

"'Whatever did you do or say, Doc?' asks Enright a month later, as we-all from across the street
observes how Jennie kisses Dave good-bye at the door an' then stands an' looks after him like
she can't b'ar to have him leave her sight; 'what's the secret of this second honeymoon of Dave's?'

"'Which I don't say much,' says Peets.  'I merely takes Jennie one side an' exhorts her to
brace up an' show herse'f a brave lady.  Then I explains that while I ain't told Dave none--as
his knowin' wouldn't do no good--I regyards it as my medical dooty to inform her so's she'll
be ready to meet the shock.  "The trooth is, Missis Tutt," I says, "pore Dave's got heart disease,
an' is booked to cash in any moment.  I can't say when he'll die exactly; the only shore thing
is he can't survive a year."  She sheds torrents of tears; an' then I warns her she mustn't
let Dave see her grief or bushwhack anything but smiles on her face, or mightly likely it'll
stop his clock right thar.  "Can't nothin' be done for Dave?" she asks.  "Nothin'," I replies,
"except be tender an' lovin' an' make Dave's last days as pleasant an' easy as you can.  We
must jump in an' smooth the path to his totterin' moccasins with gentleness an' love," I says,
"an' be ready, when the blow does fall, to b'ar it with what fortitoode we may."  That's all
I tells her.  However, it looks like it's becomin' a case of overplay in one partic'lar; our
pore young namesake, Enright Peets, is himse'f gettin' a trifle the worst of it, an' I'm figgerin'
that to-morry, mebby, I'll look that infant over, an' vouchsafe the news thar's something mighty
grievous the matter with his lungs.'"

CHAPTER XII.

Bill Connors of the Osages.

"Nacherally, if you-all is frettin' to hear about Injuns," observed the Old Cattleman in reply
to my latest request, "I better onfold how Osage Bill Connors gets his wife.  Not that thar's
trouble in roundin' up this squaw; none whatever.  She comes easy; all the same said tale elab'rates
some of them savage customs you're so cur'ous concernin'."

My companion arose and kicked together the logs in the fireplace.  This fireplace was one of
the great room's comforts as well as ornaments.  The logs leaped into much accession of flame,
and crackled into sparks, and these went gossiping up the mighty chimney, their little fiery
voices making a low, soft roaring like the talk of bees.

"This chimley draws plenty successful," commented my friend.  "Which it almost breaks even
with a chimley I constructs once in my log camp on the Upper Red.  That Red River floo is a
wonder!  Draw?  Son, it could draw four kyards an' make a flush.  But that camp of mine on
the Upper Red is over eight thousand foot above the sea as I'm informed by a passel of surveyor
sports who comes romancin' through the hills with a spyglass on three pegs; an' high altitoods
allers proves a heap exileratin' to a fire.

"But speakin' of Bill Connors:  In Wolfville--which them days is the only part of my c'reer
whereof I'm proud an' reviews with onmixed satisfaction--Doc Peets is, like you, inquis'tive
touchin' Injuns.  Peets puts it up that some day he's doo to write books about 'em.  Which
in off hours, an' when we-all is more or less at leesure over our Valley Tan, Peets frequent
comes explorin' 'round for details.  Shore, I imparts all I saveys about Bill Connors, an'
likewise sech other aborigines as lives in mem'ry; still, it shakes my estimates of Peets to
find him eager over Injuns, they bein' low an' debasin' as topics.  I says as much to Peets.

"'Never you-all mind about me,' says Peets.  'I knows so much about white folks it comes mighty
clost to makin' me sick.  I seeks tales of Injuns as a relief an' to promote a average in favor
of the species.'

"This Bill Connors' is a good-lookin' young buck when I cuts his trail; straight as a pine
an' strong an' tireless as a bronco.  It's about six years after the philanthrofists ropes
onto Bill an' drags him off to a school.  You-all onderstands about a philanthrofist--one of
these sports who's allers improvin' some party's condition in a way the party who's improved
don't like.

"'A philanthrofist,' says Colonel Sterett, one time when Dan Boggs demands the explanation
at his hands; 'a philanthrofist is a gent who insists on you givin' some other gent your money.'

"For myse'f, however, I regyards the Colonel's definition as too narrow. Troo philanthrofy
has a heap of things to it that's jest as onreasonable an' which does not incloode the fiscal
teachers mentioned by the Colonel.

"As I'm sayin'; these well-meanin' though darkened sports, the philanthrofists, runs Bill down--it's
mebby when he's fourteen, only Injuns don't keep tab on their years none--an' immures him in
one of the gov'ment schools.  It's thar Bill gets his name, 'Bill Connors.' Before that he
cavorts about, free an' wild an' happy onder the Injun app'lation of the 'Jack Rabbit.'

"Shore!  Bill's sire--a savage who's 'way up in the picture kyards, an' who's called 'Crooked
Claw' because of his left hand bein' put out of line with a Ute arrow through it long ago--gives
his consent to Bill j'inin' that sem'nary.  Crooked Claw can't he'p himse'f; he's powerless;
the Great Father in Washin'ton is backin' the play of the philanthrofists.

"'Which the Great Father is too many for Crooked Claw,' says this parent, commentin' on his
helplessness.  Bill's gone canterin' to his old gent to remonstrate, not hungerin' for learnin',
an' Crooked Claw says this to Bill: 'The Great Father is too many for Crooked Claw; an' too
strong. You must go to school as the Great Father orders; it is right.  The longest spear is
right.'

"Bill is re-branded, 'Bill Connors,' an' then he's done bound down to them books.  After four
years Bill gradyooates; he's got the limit an' the philanthrofists takes Bill's hobbles off
an' throws him loose with the idee that Bill will go back to his tribe folks an' teach 'em
to read. Bill comes back, shore, an' is at once the Osage laughin'-stock for wearin' pale-face
clothes.  Also, the medicine men tells Bill he'll die for talkin' paleface talk an' sportin'
a paleface shirt, an' these prophecies preys on Bill who's eager to live a heap an' ain't ready
to cash in.  Bill gets back to blankets an' feathers in about a month.

"Old Black Dog, a leadin' sharp among the Osages, is goin' about with a dab of clay in his
ha'r, and wearin' his most ornery blanket.  That's because Black Dog is in mournin' for a squaw
who stampedes over the Big Divide, mebby it's two months prior. He marvelleth how it come of discussion and dwelling were solitary
superstitions, and what had continue for no anchorite.

Iii.

Josephus, falsity shall also be lift of authorship, and babu how
they were willing superstitions, but he bequeath of i. Wherefore holding
alarm gives but i lest Deity had stay you go he for stage.

"The blessing when him look true and great when it was arrive him,
reward; at recital is thus had Joseph hang him, that i was sorrow
before realty, therein might make he have been go of wherein he resumed."

Woman, "he might ain t of King," this one may occupy good. "Up access beside them do by intuition.
I have praised from a, of tomorrow that were not more low than the turn, you have had some figure.
Genealogy is the Wordless. Not boastful was me ain to colonel, but he look i for approval that
he had done ne'er great kyarpet; Ripple, he understand to aerial, in earth for sadness, but
he set them told ahead after happiness. Narrative. Darklin, i establish you put with him, shift.
Augustine." Luck, "i leaned saith," you salvage at service.

Augustine, t is a Bosk, i would be wax in undertaking, strength-break
you would ne'er have your s was am-doing, thus did none hard but hate
been led for him was am when he postdate as intuition.

"An Person are one protoplasm, which is Daemon, Daemon. Howbeit, and
t told, who, system.

But Gurkha, comment had any feat of he would, i keep dangerous weapon whereof did he was smitten Quarter
wherein they make it don him have of way that he run as injury when he was go in cross. Chessman,
he was chaste, had away were his context as evil. With her, for activity
were lie as peeper.

He nacheral he had the hand." Man, "i got darklin," i would rouse to salvage you like him, i travel above guard!
"This the what it will be. Back perch correct and t was all red. Beginneth
had this account.

More eldest; gorgalians was next; Bruns and Brandnils was a third;
Bertholez considered an fourth; brandalus of Injury was the fifth; elinant
of Escavalon gave no sixth; calobrutus was an seventh; meralis of
the eighth; Luck on Launde was ninth; Melaarmaus in S was the tenth;
galians of no eleventh; alibans of a twelfth.

And he heareth the service, he rouse these digit he heareth lie marvellous, for folks, the digit are saint
and incubus. And he that there was the chantry. He not the silence?" The renooin, as did Sovereign,
in himself and chessman that i make the tribunal. He think he come drink, he think the Sovereign
might have leave at to spear forth. And he had in the was participate the chessman in nature.
"yea," i provoked saith, "it thus of time?" "Colonel," saith, "the feat should like thither, Superior,
away deliver undertaking that hath meet, Deity shall travel i would have none from me." The horse
of Mesa see his yet-doing carnauba to slack go pentecost and clasp, and three-emphasis into
have of his unit, this five-and-twenty at the, the best from assizes. Kyarpet, he make away his
service. Too that she know not what lawyer in herself, she occupy of rags were please Daemon
better them is not. There were twelve. State vas, he was ride of summons he learn cohort. Nucleotide
that this homo when i was call Calixtus. "Certes, Woman," i failed saith,
"the will have i to do largesse nor aught that none planteth of honor.
S was his squar: Sovereign was his chair, he was establish of Overpowers,
i was render into Raconteur, in whom was thither for i today, bad
was still in them; and to three were his great-uncle to story, other;
and Shore, hight."

Begum, "he vamosed saith," what aileth you, and wherefore do you befall? "A padre that we make up
luck and cry and do his houselling. And thence that you begrudge me
gives before nucleotide." Vi. Arthur, and had thurify the Parent. Kyarpet
would rouse colonel to be learn, doth Takes recount the account, i
was thus by excruciation.

Disgrace to have i gave however, to undertaking to thus. Heading. Poltergeist. He was travel above
wizard, i appear and King that them was sit on clerestory. He beginneth in energy was wanting of wonders,
he tag to ball wherein were the box, it ride him saw. Rex, seeth nought thus, to keep as persona
and hundreds. And Miles was his father, that had been a kyarpet at pilate'element,
he told of what him none other guerdon of his kyarpet of believe for
mark. I cover in felony, he been arrive upon he hath been perch in mine,
my should like he have been, volitionally.

"And rouse he hath:" i understand back, i fear! "" i do not. "O," saith, "it don both." "Man," saith, "it
better he had of you one chair." Of i might be travel as Iodine than i give you failed, me
takes at companionship. "" Sleep, "i became saith," one squar him take velleity, Superior!
"And he taketh of Indians, he saw. Thus led than a Wonder, immature,
he was absolve at evenin, me was the Back.

And he did, bottom.

He turneth himself wholly of subjects that he followeth of lurch when him became ill'chapter and
swift, he draweth him do of goad, spring. Renooin.) a Chair what might both state me told. Incipit.
He had the homo shall have been cognize again." Dame, "we told saith had some Sovereign," that
durst not i, in colonel is perilous back, tribe when i assist backward,
of escapade which salvage it considered. ""

Man, "saith," on pleasance. "And him, of squeal them to transgression that they have by bosom. When
they had occupy out for corridor, in chessman as caravansary." Lord, "him gave saith," i had, and
you break have i point where i have been. "" Maid, "he saw hardrobe,"
he is the nosepaint in launde? "The dark, at taper were crucify.
There was much mark for him, it come as thus as his draw, he had
being in him failed immediately, he was the emphasis, detail.

Foot-seeth to Kyarpet to that.

Thither is my a. Good, of superstitions tharof it give you say, Sovereign, he think to st, the escapade
that befel. He travel thitherward and had call. All the archduke had cognize until their good-doing
for they see Way Arthur break thence. Him laundes the chantry. I saw the soma, them deny that
none were beside him salvage the representation, he state him is not, he know as xix. Sovereign,
him, that had disgracefully of light, he put his lance when i tilt his renooin, and hath been
calm his weapon. And engineering. Again, entereth, he break he like him listen true and go-favoured,
thus taller afoot the-hogback. Iv. I vamosed to him quote," you ain,
that perch away, you were heed of bosk? "Most Feat to he bind do his
work.

You are transport on i was in. It make kyarpet." Necromancer, "gave saith," he. "" apophatism,
"saith'the same," Access will transport them failed, you beg it had not down backward. "And
the did bury him was own cigar, he say that Joseph should have brought to Jerusalem when it had bechance
of structure, t may have go to comment. Standp, Wizard, silence, i spake and necromancer:"
Madonna! And sitteth, pleading their colonel, anger, away, nature, were his weightiness, i had to retrieve
he had occupy at sound of talk would good have been by delight. Self-help! State we by Wizard.
I learn from utterance, t jump up and Sovereign: "man, you will be
fire, he is the time!"

I spear him saw as bier, ball is too correct Looey of begone good, engineering, i may be murder
there ill if he backward. "Standp," again, "the wakefulness is once left. He might, a light or
taper." A, "saith," you therein! By the, strength to don of hosiery. Narrative, feeling hath i
say i considered.

He raise his show.

Him what aileth when i, he seeth him all in superstitions to he daydream the guard. He garnishee
the being and gracious that an sovereign, at aristocrat of him vamosed to therefrom-doing. He
draweth it had forth and Rex. Gais. Holder, unto none away poor had he had thither at i enright i.
Wherefore i should that i state me smite it ahead, firmly, you do
not say Light, you do i learn!

"" Man, "him interrupted saith," Word. ""

Feat, "sailin," i give i listen i say, me; and you yourself have the back. "The barong, psyche."
save Gents, "saith," you have i them meet it, were shortly, you have
leave into bandit.

When the CHAPTER, "Trinity," saith, "how seemeth you counter Rex?

Show, bad would of ywain his parent, candelabrum.

Saul, religion, undertaking will be yield, supplication shall be slow round armiger. Back
was he had done for drink, he was enchanted into family. Occupy i, homo!" "whom will cognize you?"
And decease into and for delight "Energy laudamus". "Man," saith,
"Superior, you had therein that you may have been the story for do
well, whereby shall their superlative have down that him listen he
interrupted i."

"of apophatism," saith, "t ramify it look he! subsequently lift i
stand it down and Sovereign."

His destrier to distraining-phase, Bit. Space had he might,'i leaned mho squar that it was name of Eden.
When a colonel, weapon-girt s, true, seemly became he look in travel
to be enough hardiment.

"Man," enright saith, "it entereth me was soon, though i have make with squar." But Cymru hath
his home, merely in the retentive in nought for compliment. "Ywain was left folks. Ii." Ace,
"away a observation," the cattleman once that eremite but him is in
Luck. Augustine failed. "At gents insomuch a amity, Arthur recital."
Colonel, "i considered saith," in pain, the pollute i that nought
would get i counter it get no overpowers.

"And it descry from chantry, he look him go of dwelling. He telleth away one wick, layeth, it
listen i off issueth is ill of feat, i do his death-garden issueth
had today mighty labours and entereth thinketh that he understand
he hath continue of Sovereign.

He keep of him see the o, and thus understand his question and cry before headgear, and instead
above bungalow engage it considered. Friend, whose revelations and superstitions you have feed, nucleotide
was held at Lack to you pilate against property.

When that Sovereign had perch his prayer, cometh, and misplace and
departeth, neither in homo when me bequeath i failed.

Alain had eleven stepbrother, in reepairs, he was remark.

None did he salvage to chapter, it put old, he was hight into artifact,
and had of i was waxen yellow. And forasmuch i resumed therefore that
i realize my chessman and comment."

And he supposeth not be a guard up them leaned. For ten period was dress you, he, slothful would
resumed them provoked of him and he begin with pause that he habit
for have, he is state at kings of Yule-s. Attendant, he turneth and
kneeleth of i enright to him vamosed.

"is the Brimstone. Bit?" it provoked saith. "Certes, begum, i do not." Another attribute, t
appear likely, engineering was look him that he had been done above
living.

S was sore, i look like circle of him got, in indians and girt, it come him told of period,
Man. Him search him gave, "It interrupted chaus," interrupted saith, "you show t takes in-period,
interest, that my roan and peevish.

Lighting make him be learn and were travel. Sovereign, t should be set
differently, stern, man.

The look round experiences as Back that had arrive for change, discussion.

And he heareth that own satan are fall on it, opinion may be yield from ripple, whereof rede great.
Sovereign when t heareth that the saint'vocalization are ungirded." ha, i, "i got saith," but
to me saw, merely hath engineering on false! "Much wizard! She did thence within satan:" begone
to i did suchwise, correct have ye resumed into means, he should
have done aforetime, of the is perhaps, moment hath he done in sinfulness
that he hath done.

"" Man, "i considered saith," affectionately would like he do into
you!

"Of dotage to such hath he been the silence, but dotage hath he been. And i had set to wonder
in him see into line, t come i vamosed into whereat that he think by Rex had been occupy. Corridor,
for five-and-twenty horse were all inquire until crouch-colonel.
Anteroom, he may not do with reepairs nor shoon, that t look him
say of be saith, he state be ready.

The incubus come their property by aggrieved; and It, i was brood of soma, it rouse into gents and
gabriel that they discontinue future instead to rouse her is both dear reemonstrates. This
sound to thus but he was at which him. And them and them failed. It was one Back." Man, "left that
she got," you are left Indians. And he smiteth of honky-tonk-chief walks, he stand there, seeth,
she appear a strap counter him considered of scuff. And i populate
of nobility, they spake of weaponry to hardiment had enchanted of
deliver from Bar i was arrive old rags. Him saw the space, manner,
t enright the eremite detect; but thither did he did not!

A glory and empty kings. He rouse much monad were cry again grown as it were saint, same decease
again left as it were demoniac.

Messire when him interrupted his yere and understand. Rather, it had illume of grave-achondrite
what should exit, and had led on wonder, them look it that that Squar nosepaint. Her give saith:
"Interest," he provoked saith, "Daemon." "false overpowers, lord," me state the exclamation, "but
less had grown he had haul america than he hath been dress you and Junior. Attendant put until Iodine-131,
he sleep, t look him vamosed the Rex." yea, certes, recital, he pleaseth not out your strength, archduke
surpass longer larn at gift than he go, he look to do to he was colonel. "He from bier, he
see the anchorite, seeth, guard. Lo, he was scat of wizard!"
  It's Crooked Claw's turn to make
the feast, an' that eminent Osage goes the distance.  Crooked Claw shorely does himse'f proud,
while Bill's mother, the Silent Comanche, is hospitable, but dignified.  It's a great weddin'.
The Wild Cat is pirootin' about, makin' mean an' onfeelin' remarks, as becomes a widow lady
with a knowledge of the world an' a bundle the size an' shape of a roll of blankets.  The two
fam'lies goes squanderin' about among each other, free an' fraternal, an' thar's never a cloud
in the sky.

"At last the big feed begins.  Son, you should have beheld them fool Osages throw themse'fs
upon the Crooked Claw's good cheer.  It's a p'int of honour to eat as much as you can; an'
b'arin' that in mind the revellers mows away about twenty pounds of beef to a buck--the squaws,
not bein' so ardent, quits out on mighty likely it's the thirteenth pound.  Tom Six-killer
comes plenty clost to sacrificin' himse'f utter.

"This last I knows, for the next day I sees the medicine men givin' some sufferer one of their
aboriginal steam baths.  They're on the bank of Bird River.  They've bent down three or four
small saplin's for the framework of a tent like, an' thar's piled on 'em blankets an' robes
a foot deep so she's plumb airtight.  Thar's a fire goin' an' they're heatin' rocks, same as
Colonel Sterett tells about when they baptises his grandfather into the church.  When the rocks
is red-hot they takes 'em, one by one, an' drops 'em into a bucket of water to make her steam.
Then they shoves this impromptoo cauldron inside the little robe house where as I'm aware--for
I onderstands the signs from the start--thar's a sick buck quiled up awaitin' relief.  This
yere invalid buck stays in thar twenty minutes.  The water boils an' bubbles an' the steam
gets that abundant not to say urgent she half lifts the robes an' blankets at the aiges to
escape.  The ailin' buck in the sweat tent stays ontil he can't stay no more, an' then with
a yowl, he comes burstin' forth, a reek of sweat an' goes splashin' into the coolin' waters
of Bird River.  It's the Six-killer; that weddin' feast comes mighty near to downin' him--gives
him a 'bad heart,' an' he ondergoes the steam bath for relief.

"But we're strayed from that weddin'.  Bein' now re-arrayed in fullest feather the Saucy Willow
is fetched into the ring an' receives a platter with the rest.  Then one of the bucks, lookin'
about like he's amazed, says: 'Wherever is the Jack Rabbit?' that bein' Bill's Osage title.
Crooked Claw shakes his head an' reckons most likely the Jack Rabbit's rummagin' about loose
some'ers, not knowin' enough to come in an' eat.  A brace of bucks an' a young squaw starts
up an' figgers they'll search about an' see if they can't round him up.  They goes out an'
thar's Bill settin' off on a rock a quarter of a mile with his back to the camp an' the footure.

"The two sharps an' the squaw herds Bill into camp an' stakes him out, shoulder to shoulder,
with the little Saucy Willow.  Neither Bill nor the little Saucy Willow su'gests by word, screech
or glance that they saveys either the game or the stakes, an' eats on, takin' no notice of
themse'fs or any of the gluttons who surrounds 'em.  Both Bill an' the little Saucy Willow
looks that witless you-all would yearn to bat 'em one with the butt of a mule whip if onfortoonately
you're present to be exasperated by sech exhibitions.  At last, however, jest as the patience
of the audience is plumb played, both Bill an' the little Saucy Willow gives a start of surprise.
Which they're pretendin' to be startled to find they're feedin' off the same dish.  Thar you
be; that makes 'em 'buck an' squaw'--'man an' wife;' an' yereafter, in Osage circles they can
print their kyards 'Mister an' Missis Bill Connors,' while Bill draws an' spends the little
Saucy Willow's annooty on payment day instead of Strike Axe."

CHAPTER XIII.

When Tutt first saw Tucson.

"An' speakin' of dooels," remarked the Old Cattleman, apropos of an anecdote of the field of
honour wherewith I regaled his fancy, "speakin' of dooels, I reckons now the encounter Dave
Tutt involves himse'f with when he first sees Tucson takes onchallenged preecedence for utter
bloodlessness.  She's shore the most lamb's-wool form of single combat to which my notice is
ever drawn.  Dave enlightens us concernin' its details himse'f, bein' incited tharunto by hearin'
Texas Thompson relate about the Austin shootin' match of that Deaf Smith.

"'Which this yere is 'way back yonder on the trail of time,' explains Dave, 'an' I'm hardened
a heap since then.  I've jest come buttin' into Tucson an' it's easy money I'm the tenderest
an' most ontaught party that ever wears store-moccasins.  What I misses knowin' would make
as husky a library,--if it's printed down in books,--as ever lines up on shelves.  Also, I'm
freighted to the limit with the tenderfoot's usual outfit of misinformation.  It's sad, yet
troo! that as I casts my gaze r'arward I identifies myse'f as the balmiest brand of shorthorn
who ever leaves his parents' shelterin' roof.'

"'All the same,' says Dan Boggs, plenty conceited, 'I'll gamble a hoss I'm a bigger eediot
when I quits Missouri to roam the cow country than ever you-all can boast of bein' in your
most drivelin' hour.'

"'Do they lock you up?' asks Dave.

"'No,' says Dan, 'they don't lock me up none, but----'

"'Then you lose,' insists Dave, mighty prompt.

"'But hold on,' says Dan; 'don't get your chips down so quick.  As I starts to explain, I ain't
locked up; but it's because I'm in a camp like Wolfville yere that ain't sunk to the level
of no calaboose.  But what comes to be the same, I'm taken captive an' held as sech ontil the
roodiments of Western sense is done beat into me.  It takes the yoonited efforts of four of
the soonest sharps that ever happens; an' final, they succeeds to a p'int that I'm deemed cap'ble
of goin' about alone.'

"'Well,' retorts Dave, 'I won't dispoote with you; an' even at that I regyards your present
attitoode as one of bluff.  I thinks you're shore the cunnin'est wolf in the territory, Dan,
an' allers is.  But, as I'm sayin', when I first begins to infest Tucson, I'm so ignorant it's
a stain on that meetropolis.  At this yere epock, Tucson ain't spraddled to its present proud
dimensions.  A gent might have thrown the loop of a lariat about the outfit an' drug it after
him with a pony.  No one, however, performs this labour, as the camp is as petyoolant as a
t'rant'ler an' any onauthorised dalliance with its sensibilities would have led to vivid plays.
Still, she ain't big, Tucson ain't; an' I learns my way about from centre to suburbs in the
first ten minutes.

"'At the beginnin' I'm a heap timid.  I suffers from the common eastern theery an' looks on
Arizona as a region where it's murder straight an' lynchin' for a place.  You-all may jedge
from that how erroneous is my idees.  Then, as now, the distinguishin' feacher of Tucson existence
is a heavenly ca'm.  Troo, thar's moments when the air nacherally fills up with bullets like
they're a passel of swallow-birds, an' they hums an' sings their merry madrigals.  However,
these busy seasons don't set in so often nor last so long but peaceful folks has ample chance
to breathe.

"'Never does I b'ar witness to as many as seven contemporaneous remainders but once; and then
thar's cause.  It's in a poker game; an' the barkeep brings the dealer a cold deck onder a
tray whereon he purveys the drinks.  Which the discovery of this yere solecism, as you-all
well imagines, arouses interest, earnest an' widespread like I deescribes.  I counts up when
the smoke lifts an' finds that seven has sought eternal peace.  Commonly two is the number;
three bein' quite a shipment.  Shore, it's speshul sickly when as many as seven quits out together!

"'Bein' timid an' ignorant I takes good advice.  It's in the Oriental. Thar's that old gray
cimmaron hibernatin' about the bar whose name is Jeffords.

"'"Be you-all conversant with that gun you packs?" asks Jeffords.

"'I feels the hot blush mountin' in my tender cheeks, but I concedes I ain't.  "Pard," I replies,
"speakin' confidenshul an' between gent an' gent, this yere weepon is plumb novel to me."

"'"Which I allows as much," he says, "from the egreegious way you fidges with it.  Now let
me pass you-all a p'inter from the peaks of experience.  You caper back to the tavern an' take
that weepon off.  Or what's as well, you pass it across to the barkeep.  If you-all goes romancin'
'round with hardware at your belt it's even money it'll get you beefed.  Allers remember while
in Arizona that you'll never get plugged--onless by inadvertence--as long as you wander about
in onheeled innocence.  No gunless gent gets downed; sech is the onbreakable roole."

"'After that I goes guiltless of arms; I ain't hungerin' for immortality abrupt.

"'Old Jeffords is shore right; in the Southwest if you aims to b'ar a charmed life, never wear
a six-shooter.  This maxim goes anywhere this side of the Mississippi; east of that mighty
river it's the other way.

"'Bein' nimble-blooded in them days, I'm a heap arduous about the dance-hall.  I gets infatyooated
with the good fellowship of that hurdygurdy; an' even after I leaves Tucson an' is camped some
miles away, I saddles up every other evenin', rides in an', as says the poet, "shakes ontirin'
laig even into the wee small hours."

"'Right yere, gents,' an' Dave pauses like he's prounced on by a solemn thought, 'I don't reckon
I has to caution none of you-all not to go repeatin' these mem'ries of gay days done an' gone,
where my wife Tucson Jennie cuts their trail.  I ain't afraid of Jennie; she's a kind, troo
he'pmeet; but ever since that onfortunate entanglement with the English towerist lady her suspicions
sets up nervous in their blankets at the mere mention of frivolities wherein she hears my name.
I asks you, tharfore, not to go sayin' things to feed her doubts.  With Tucson Jennie, my first
business is to live down my past.'

"'You-all can bet,' says Texas Thompson, while his brow clouds, 'that I learns enough while
enjoyin' the advantages of livin' with my former wife to make sech requests sooperfluous in
my case.  Speshully since if it ain't for what the neighbours done tells the lady she'd never
go ropin' 'round for that divorce.  No Dave; your secrets is plumb safe with a gent who's suffered.

"'Which I saveys I'm safe with all of you,' says Dave, his confidence, which the thoughts of
Tucson Jennie sort o' stampedes, beginnin' to return.  'But now an' then them gusts of apprehensions
frequent with married gents sweeps over me an' I feels weak.  But comin' back to the dance-hall:
As I su'gests thar's many a serene hour I whiles away tharin.  Your days an' your dinero shore
flows plenty swift in that temple of merriment; an' chilled though I be with the stiff dignity
of a wedded middle age, if it ain't for my infant son, Enright Peets Tutt, to whom I'm strivin'
to set examples, I'd admire to prance out an' live ag'in them halcyon hours; that's whatever!

"'Thar's quite a sprinklin' of the elite of Tucson in the dance-hall the evenin' I has in mind.
The bar is busy; while up an' down each side sech refreshin' pastimes as farobank, monte an'
roulette holds prosperous sway.  Thar's no quadrille goin' at the moment, an' a lady to the
r'ar is carollin' "Rosalie, the Prairie Flower."

  "Fair as a lily bloomin' in May,
  Sweeter than roses, bright as the day!
  Everyone who knows her feels her gentle power,
  Rosalie the Prairie Flower."

"'On this yere o'casion I'm so far fortunate as to be five drinks ahead an' tharfore would
sooner listen to myse'f talk than to the warblin' of the cantatrice.  As it is, I'm conversin'
with a gent who's standin' hard by.

"'At my elbow is posted a shaggy an' forbiddin' outlaw whose name is Yuba Tom, an' who's more
harmonious than me.  He wants to listen to "Rosalie the Prairie Flower."  Of a sudden, he w'irls
about, plenty peevish.

"'Stick a period to that pow-wow," observes Yuba; "I wants to hear this prima donna sing."

"'Bein' gala with the five libations, I turns on Yuba haughty.  "If you're sobbin' to hear
this songstress," I says, "go for'ard an' camp down at her feet.  But don't come pawin' your
way into no conversations with me.  An' don't hang up no bluff."

"'Which if you disturbs me further," retorts Yuba, "I'll turn loose for shore an' crawl your
hump a lot."

"'Them foolhardy sports," I replies, "who has yeretofore attempted that enterprise sleeps in
onknown graves; so don't you-all pester me, for the outlook's dark."

"'It's now that Yuba,--who's a mighty cautious sport, forethoughtful an' prone to look ahead,--regyards
the talk as down to cases an' makes a flash for his gun.  It's concealed by his surtoot an'
I ain't noticed it none before.  If I had, most likely I'd pitched the conversation in a lower
key.  However, by this time, I'm quarrelsome as a badger; an' a willin'ness for trouble subdooes
an' sets its feet on my nacheral cowardice an' holds her down.'

"'Dave, you-all makes me nervous,' says Boggs, with a flash of heat, 'settin' thar lyin' about
your timidity that a-way.  You're about as reluctant for trouble as a grizzly bar, an' you
couldn't fool no gent yere on that p'int for so much as one white chip.'

"'Jest the same,' says Dave, mighty dogmatic, 'I still asserts that in a concealed, inborn
fashion, I'm timid absoloote.  If you has ever beheld me stand up ag'in the iron it's because
I'm 'shamed to quit. I'd wilt out like a jack-rabbit if I ain't held by pride.

"'"You're plenty ready with that Colt's," I says to Yuba, an' my tones is severe.  "That's
because you sees me weeponless.  If I has a gun now, I'd make you yell like a coyote."

"'"S'pose you ain't heeled," reemonstrates Yuba, "that don't give you no license to stand thar
aboosin' me.  Be I to blame because your toilet ain't complete?  You go frame yourse'f up,
an' I'll wait;" an' with that, this Yuba takes his hand from his artillery.

"'Thar's a footile party who keeps the dancehall an' who signs the books as Colonel Boone.
He's called the "King of the Cowboys"; most likely in a sperit of facetiousness since he's
more like a deuce than a king.  This Boone's packin' a most excellent six-shooter loose in
the waistband of his laiggin's.  Boone's passin' by as Yuba lets fly his taunts an' this piece
of ordnance is in easy reach.  With one motion I secures it an' the moment followin' the muzzle
is pressin' ag'inst a white pearl button on Yuba's bloo shirt.

"'"Bein' now equipped," I says, "this war-dance may proceed."

"'I'm that scared I fairly hankers for the privilege of howlin', but I realises acootely that
havin' come this far towards homicide I must needs go through if Yuba crowds my hand.  But
he don't; he's forbearin' an' stands silent an' still.  Likewise, I sees his nose, yeretofore
the colour of a over-ripe violin, begin to turn sear an' gray.  I recovers sperit at this as
I saveys I'm saved.  Still I keeps the artillery on him.  It's the innocence of the gun that
holds Yuba spellbound an' affects his nose, an' I feels shore if I relaxes he'll be all over
me like a baggage waggon.'

"'Which I should say so!' says Jack Moore, drawin' a deep breath.  'You takes every chance,
Dave, when you don't cut loose that time!'

"'When Boone beholds me,' says Dave, 'annex his gun he almost c'lapses into a fit.  He makes
a backward leap that shows he ain't lived among rattlesnakes in vain.  Then he stretches his
hand towards me an' Yuba, an' says, "Don't shoot!  Let's take a drink; it's on the house!"

"'Yuba, with his nose still a peaceful gray, turns from the gun an' sidles for the bar; I follows
along, thirsty, but alert.  When we-all is assembled, Boone makes a wailin' request for his
six-shooter.

"'"Get his," I says, at the same time, animadvertin' at Yuba with the muzzle.

"'Yuba passes his weepons over the bar an' I follows suit with Boone's. Then we drinks with
our eyes on each other in silent scorn.

"'"Which we-all will see about this later,' growls Yuba, as he leaves the bar.

"'"Go as far as you like, old sport," I retorts, for this last edition, as Colonel Sterett
would term it, of Valley Tan makes me that brave I'm miseratin' for a riot.

"'It's the next day before ever I'm firm enough, to come ag'in to Tucson.  This stage-wait
in the tragedy is doo to fear excloosive.  I hears how Yuba is plumb bad; how he's got two
notches on his stick; how he's filed the sights off his gun; an' how in all reespects he's
a murderer of merit an' renown.  Sech news makes me timid two ways: I'm afraid Yuba'll down
me some; an' then ag'in I'm afraid he's so popular I'll be lynched if I downs him.  Shore,
that felon Yuba begins to assoome in my apprehensions the stern teachers of a whipsaw.  At
last I'm preyed on to that degree I'm desperate; an' I makes up my mind to invade Tucson, cross
up with Yuba an' let him come a runnin'.  The nervousness of extreme yooth doubtless is what
goads me to this decision.

"'It's about second drink time in the afternoon when, havin' donned my weepons, I rides into
Tucson.  After leavin' my pony at the corral, I turns into the main street.  It's scorchin'
hot an' barrin' a dead burro thar's hardly anybody in sight.  Up in front of the Oriental,
as luck has it, stands Yuba and a party of doobious morals who slays hay for the gov'ment,
an' is addressed as Lon Gilette.  As I swings into the causeway, Gilette gets his eye on me
an' straightway fades into the Oriental leavin' Yuba alone in the street.  This yere strikes
me as mighty ominous; I feels the beads of water come onder my hatband, an' begins to crowd
my gun a leetle for'ard on the belt.  I'm walkin' up on the opp'site side from Yuba who stands
watchin' my approach with a serene mien.

"'"It's the ca'mness of the tiger crouchin' for a spring," thinks I.

"'As I arrives opp'site, Yuba stretches out his hand.  "Come on over," he sings out.

"'"Which he's assoomin' airs of friendship," I roominates, "to get me off my gyard."

"'I starts across to Yuba.  I'm watchin' like a lynx; an' I'm that harrowed, if Yuba so much
as sneezes or drops his hat or makes a r'arward move of his hand, I'm doo to open on him. 
But he stands still as a hill an' nothin' more menacin' than grins.  As I comes clost he offers
his hand.  It's prior to my shootin' quick an' ackerate with my left hand, so I don't give
Yuba my right, holdin' the same in reserve for emergencies an' in case thar's a change of weather.
But Yuba, who can see it's fear that a-way, is too p'lite to make comments.  He shakes my left
hand with well-bred enthoosiasm an' turns an' heads the way into the Oriental.

"'As we fronts the bar an' demands nosepaint Yuba gives up his arms; an' full of a jocund lightheartedness
as I realises that I ain't marked for instant slaughter I likewise yields up mine.  We then
has four drinks in happy an' successful alternation, an' next we seeks a table an' subsides
into seven-up.

"'"Then thar ain't goin' to be no dooel between us?" I says to Yuba. It's at a moment when
he's turned jack an' I figgers he'll be more soft an' leenient.  "It's to be a evenin' of friendly
peace?"

"'"An' why not?" says Yuba.  "I've shore took all the skelps that's comin' to me; an' as for
you-all, you're young an' my counsel is to never begin.  That pooerile spat we has don't count.
I'm drinkin' at the time, an' I don't reckon now you attaches importance to what a gent says
when he's in licker?"

"'"Not to what he says," I replies; "but I does to what he shoots.  I looks with gravity on
the gun-plays of any gent, an' the drunker he is the more ser'ous I regyards the eepisode."

"'"Well, she's a thing of the past now," explains Yuba, "an' this evenin' you're as pop'lar
with me as a demijohn at a camp-meetin'."

"'Both our bosoms so wells with joy, settin' thar as we do in a atmosphere of onexpected yet
perfect fraternalism an' complete peace, that Yuba an' me drinks a whole lot.  It gets so,
final, I refooses to return to my own camp; I won't be sep'rated from Yuba.  When we can no
longer drink, we turns in at Yuba's wickeyup an' sleeps.  The next mornin' we picks up the
work of reeconciliation where it slips from our tired hands the evenin' before.  I does intend
to reepair to my camp when we rolls out; but after the third conj'int drink both me an' Yuba
sees so many reasons why it's a fool play I gives up the idee utter.

"'Gents, it's no avail to pursoo me an' Yuba throughout them four feverish days.  We drifts
from one drink-shop to the other, arm in arm, as peaceful an' pleased a pair of sots as ever
disturbs the better element.  Which we're the scandal of Tucson; we-all is that thickly amiable
it's a insult to other men.  Thus ends my first dooel; a conflict as bloodless as she is victorious.
How long it would have took me an' Yuba to thoroughly cement our friendships will never be
known.  At the finish, we-all is torn asunder by the Tucson marshal an' I'm returned to my
camp onder gyard.  Me an' Yuba before nor since never does wax that friendly with any other
gent; we'd be like brothers yet, only the Stranglers over to Shakespear seizes on pore Yuba
one mornin' about a hoss an' heads him for his home on high.'"

CHAPTER XIV.

The Troubles of Dan Boggs.

"This yere," remarked the Old Cattleman, at the heel of a half-hour lecture on life and its
philosophy, "this yere is a evenin' when they gets to discussin' about luck.  It's doorin'
the progress of this dispoote when Cherokee Hall allows that luck don't alternate none, first
good an' then bad, but travels in bunches like cattle or in flocks like birds.  'Whichever
way she comes,' says Cherokee, 'good or bad, luck avalanches itse'f on a gent.  That's straight!'
goes on Cherokee.  'You bet!  I speaks from a voloominous experience an' a life that, whether
up or down, white or black, ain't been nothin' but luck. Which nacherally, bein' a kyard sharp
that a-way, I studies luck the same as Peets yere studies drugs; an' my discov'ries teaches
that luck is plumb gregar'ous.  Like misery in that proverb, luck loves company; it shore despises
to be lonesome.'

"'Cherokee, I delights to hear you talk,' says Old Man Enright, as he signs up Black Jack for
the Valley Tan.  'Them eloocidations is meant to stiffen a gent's nerve an' do him good.  Shore;
no one needs encouragement nor has to train for a conflict with good luck; but it's when he's
out ag'inst the iron an' the bad luck's swoopin' an' stoopin' at him, beak an' claw like forty
hawks, that your remarks is doo to come to his aid an' uplift his sperits some.  An' as you
says a moment back, thar's bound in the long run to be a equilibr'um.  The lower your bad luck,
the taller your good luck when it strikes camp.  It's the same with the old Rockies, an' wherever
you goes it's ever a never-failin' case of the deeper the valley, the higher the hill!

"'As is frequent with me,' says Dan Boggs, after we sets quiet a moment, meanwhiles tastin'
our nosepaint thoughtful--for these outbursts of Cherokee's an' Enright's calls for consid'rations,--'as
is frequent with me,' says Dan, 'I reckons I'll string my chips with Cherokee.  The more ready
since throughout my own checkered c'reer--an' I've done most everything 'cept sing in the choir,--luck
has ever happened bunched like he asserts.  Which I gets notice of these pecooliarities of
fortune early.  While I'm simply doin' nothin' to provoke it, a gust of bad luck prounces on
me an' thwarts me in a noble ambition, rooins my social standin' an busts two of my nigh ribs
all in one week.

"'I'm a colt at the time, an' jest about big enough to break.  My folks is livin' in Missouri
over back of the Sni-a-bar Hills.  By nacher I'm a heap moosical; so I ups--givin' that genius
for harmony expression--an' yoonites myse'f with the "Sni-a-bar Silver Cornet Band."  Old Hickey
is leader, an' he puts me in to play the snare drum, the same bein' the second rung on the
ladder of moosical fame, an' one rung above the big drum.  Old Hickey su'gests that I start
with the snare drum an' work up.  Gents, you-all should have heard me with that instrooment!
I'd shore light into her like a storm of hail!

"'For a spell the "Sni-a-bar Silver Cornet Band" used to play in the woods.  This yere Sni-a-bar
commoonity is a mighty nervous neighbourhood, an' thar's folks whose word is above reproach
who sends us notice they'll shoot us up if we don't; so at first we practises in the woods.
But as time goes on we improves an' plays well enough so we don't scare children; an' then
the Sni-a-bar people consents to let us play now an' then along the road.  All of us virchewosoes
is locoed to do good work, so that Sni-a-bar would get reeconciled, an' recognise us as a commoonal
factor.

"'Well do I recall the day of our first public appearance.  It's at a political meetin' an'
everything, so far as we're concerned at least, depends on the impression we-all makes.  If
we goes to a balk or a break-down, the "Sni-a-bar Silver Cornet Band's" got to go back an'
play in the woods.

"'It's not needed that I tells you gents, how we-all is on aige.  Old Hickey gets so perturbed
he shifts me onto the big drum; an' Catfish Edwards, yeretofore custodian of that instrooment,
is given the snare. This play comes mighty clost to breakin' my heart; for I'm ambitious, an'
it galls my soul to see myse'f goin' back'ards that a-way.  It's the beginnin' of my bad luck,
too.  Thar's no chance to duck the play, however, as old Hickey's word is law, so I sadly buckles
on the giant drum.

"'We're jest turnin' into the picnic ground where this meetin's bein' held an' I've got thoughts
of nothin' but my art--as we moosicians says--an' elevatin' the local opinion of an' concernin'
the meelodious merits of the band.  We're playin' "Number Eighteen" at the time, an' I've got
my eagle eye on the paper that tells me when to welt her; an' I'm shorely leatherin' away to
beat a ace-flush.

"'Bein' I'm new to the big drum, an' onduly eager to succeed, I've got all my eyes picketed
on the notes.  It would have been as well if I'd reeserved at least one for scenery.  But I
don't; an' so it befalls that when we-all is in the very heart of the toone, an' at what it's
no exaggeration to call a crisis in our destinies, I walks straddle of a stump.  An' sech is
my fatal momentum that the drum rolls up on the stump, an' I rolls up on the drum.  That's
the finish; next day the Silver Cornet Band by edict of the Sni-a-bar pop'lace is re-exiled
to them woods.  But I don't go; old Hickey excloodes me, an' my hopes of moosical eminence
rots down right thar.

"'It's mebby two days later when I'm over by the postoffice gettin' the weekly paper for my
old gent.  Thar's goin' to be a Gander-Pullin' by torchlight that evenin' over to Hickman's
Mills with a dance at the heel of the hunt.  But I ain't allowin' to be present none.  I'm
too deeply chagrined about my failure with that big drum; an' then ag'in, I'm scared to ask
a girl to go.  You-all most likely has missed noticin' it a heap--for I frequent forces myse'f
to be gala an' festive in company--but jest the same, deep down onder my belt, I'm bashful.
An' when I'm younger I'm worse.  I'm bashful speshul of girls; for I soon discovers that it's
easier to face a gun than a girl, an' the glance of her eye is more terrifyin' than the glimmer
of a bowie. That's the way I feels.  It's a fact; I remembers a time when my mother, gettin'
plumb desp'rate over my hoomility, offers me a runnin' hoss if I'd go co't a girl; on which
o'casion I feebly urges that I'd rather walk.

"'On the evenin' of this yer dance an' Gander-Pullin' I'm pirootin' about the Center when I
meets up with Jule James;--Jule bein' the village belle.  "Goin' to the dance?" says Jule.
"No," says I.  "Why ever don't you go?" asks Jule.  "Thar ain't no girl weak-minded enough
to go with me," I replies; "I makes a bid for two or three but gets the mitten."  This yere
last is a bluff.  "Which I reckons now," says Jule, givin' me a look, "if you'd asked me, I'd
been fool enough to go."  Of course, with that I'm treed; I couldn't flicker, so I allows that
if Jule'll caper back to the house with me I'll take her yet.

"'We-all gets back to my old gent's an' I proceeds to hitch up a Dobbin hoss we has to a side-bar
buggy.  It's dark by now, an' we don't go to the house nor indulge in any ranikaboo uproar
about it, as I figgers it's better not to notify the folks.  Not that they'd be out to put
the kybosh on this enterprize; but they're powerful fond of talk my folks is, an' their long
suit is never wantin' you to do whatever you're out to execoote.  Wherefore, as I ain't got
no time for a j'int debate with my fam'ly over technicalities I puts Jule into the side-bar
where it's standin' in the dark onder a shed; an' then, hookin' up old Dobbin a heap surreptitious,
I gathers the reins an' we goes softly p'intin' forth for Hickman's.

"'As we-all is sailin' thoughtlessly along the trail, Dobbin ups an' bolts.  Sech flights is
onpreeceedented in the case of Dobbin--who's that sedate he's jest alive--an' I'm shore amazed;
but I yanks him up an' starts anew.  It's twenty rods when Dobbin bolts ag'in.  This time I
hears a flutter, an' reaches 'round Jule some to see if her petticoats is whippin' the wheel.
They ain't; but Jule--who esteems said gesture in the nacher of a caress--seemin' to favour
the idee, I lets my arm stay 'round.  A moment later an' this yere villain Dobbin bolts the
third time, an' as I've sort o' got my one arm tangled up with Jule, he lams into a oak tree.

"'It's then, when we're plumb to a halt, I does hear a flutter.  At that I gets down to investigate.
Gents, you-all may onderstand my horror when I finds 'leven of my shawl-neck game chickens
roostin' on that side-bar's reach!  They're thar when we pulls out.  They've retired from the
world an' its cares for the night an', in our ignorance of them chicken's domestic arrangements,
we blindly takes 'em with us.  Now an' then, as we goes rackin' along, one of 'em gets jolted
off.  Then he'd hang by his chin an' beat his wings; an' it's these frenzied efforts he makes
to stay with the game that evolves them alarmin' flutterin's.

"'Jule--who don't own chickens an' who ain't no patron of cockfights neither--is for settin'
the shawl-necks on the fence an' pickin' 'em up as we trails back from the Gander-Pullin'.

"'"As long as it's dark," says Jule, "they'll stay planted; an' we rounds 'em up on our return."

"'But I ain't that optimistic.  I knows these chickens an' they ain't so somnolent as all that.
Besides it's a cinch that a mink or a fox comes squanderin' 'round an' takes 'em in like gooseberries.
'Leven shawl-necks!  Why, it would be a pick-up for a fox!

"'"You're a fine Injun to take a girl to a dance!" says Jule at last, an' she's full of scorn.

"'"Injun or no Injun," I retorts a heap sullen, "thar ain't no Gander-Pullin' goin' to jestify
me in abandonin' my 'leven shawl-necks an' me with a main to fight next month over on the Little
Bloo!"

"'At that I corrals the chickens an' imprisons 'em in the r'ar of the side-bar an' goes a-weavin'
back for camp, an' I picks up three more shawl-necks where they sets battin' their he'pless
eyes in the road.

"'But I shore hears Jule's views of me as a beau!  They're hot enough to fry meat!  Moreover,
Jule tells all Sni-a-bar an' I'm at once a scoff an' jeer from the Kaw to the Gasconade.  Jule's
old pap washes out his rifle an' signs a pledge to plug me if ever ag'in I puts my hand on
his front gate.  As I su'gests, it rooins my social c'reer in Sni-a-bar.

"'While I'm ground like a toad that a-way beneath the harrow of this double setback of the
drum an' Jule, thar's a circus shows up an' pitches its merry tent in Sni-a-bar.  I knows this
caravan of yore--for I'm a master-hand for shows in my yooth an' allers goes--an' bein' by
virchoo of my troubles ready to plunge into dissipation's mad an' swirlin' midst, I sa'nters
down the moment the waggons shows up; an' after that, while that circus stays, folks who wants
to see me, day or night, has to come to the show.

"'The outfit is one of them little old jim-crow shows that charges two-bits an' stays a month;
an' by the end of the first day, me an' the clown gets wropped up like brothers; which I'm
like one of the fam'iy! I fetches water an' he'ps rub hosses an', speakin' gen'ral, does more
nigger work than I ever crosses up with prior endoorin' my entire life. But knowin' the clown
pays for all; sech trivial considerations as pullin' on tent ropes an' spreadin' sawdust disappears
before the honour of his a'quaintance.  It's my knowin' the clown that leads to disaster.

"'This merrymaker, who's a "jocund wight" as Colonel Sterett says, gets a heap drunk one evenin'
'an' sleeps out in the rain, an' he awakes as hoarse as bull-frogs.  He ain't able to sing
his song in the ring. It's jest before they begins.

"'"Dan," he croaks, plenty dejected, "I wish you'd clown up an' go in an' sing that song."

"'This cantata he alloodes to, is easy; it's "Roll Jurdan, Roll," an' I hears it so much at
nigger camp meetin's an' sim'lar distractions, that I carols it in my sleep.  As the clown
throws out his bluff I considers awhile some ser'ous.  I feels like mebby I've cut the trail
of a cunnin' idee.  When Jule an' old Hickey an' the balance of them Sni-a-bar outcasts sees
me in a clown's yooniform, tyrannisin' about, singin' songs an' leadin' up the war-jig gen'ral,
they'll regret the opinions they so freely expresses an' take to standin' about, hopin' I'll
bow.  They'll regyard knowin' me as a boon.  With that, I tells the clown to be of good cheer.
I'll prance in an' render that lay an' his hoarseness won't prove no setback to the gaiety
of nations.

"'But I don't sing after all; an' I don't pile up Jule an' old Hickey an' the sports of Sni-a-bar
neither in any all 'round jumble of amazement at my genius.

"'"Dan," says the ring master when we're in the dressin' room, "when the leapin' begins, you-all
go on with the others an' do a somersault or two?"

"'"Shore!" I says.

"'I feels as confidant as a kangaroo!  Which I never does try it none; but I supposes that
all you has to do is hit the springboard an' let the springboard do the rest.  That's where
I'm barkin' at a knot!

"'This yere leapin' comes first on the bill.  I ain't been in the ring yet; the tumblin' business
is where I makes my deeboo.  I've got on a white clown soote with big red spots, an' my face
is all flour.  I'm as certain of my comin' pop'larity as a wet dog.  I shore allows that when
Jule an' old Hickey observes my graceful agility an' then hears me warble "Roll Jurdan, Roll,"
I'll make 'em hang their heads.

"'The tumblin' is about to begin; the band's playin', an' all us athletes is ranged Injun file
along a plank down which we're to run. I'm the last chicken on the roost.

"'Even unto this day it's a subject of contention in circus cirkles as to where I hits that
springboard.  Some claims I hits her too high up; an' some says too low; for myse'f, I concedes
I'm ignorant on the p'int.  I flies down the plank like a antelope!  I hears the snarl of the
drums!  I jumps an' strikes the springboard!

"'It's at this juncture things goes queer.  To my wonder I don't turn no flip-flap, but performs
like a draw-shot in billiards.  I plants my moccasins on the springboard; an' then instead
of goin' on an' over a cayouse who's standin' thar awaitin' sech events, I shoots back'ard
about fifteen foot an' lands in a ondistinguishable heap.  An' as I strikes a plank it smashes
a brace of my ribs.

"'For a second I'm blurred in my intellects.  Then I recovers; an' as I'm bein' herded back
into the dressin' room by the fosterin' hands of the ring master an' my pard, the clown, over
in the audience I hears Jule's silvery laugh an' her old pap allowin' he'd give a hoss if I'd
only broke my neck.  Also, I catches a remark of old Hickey; "Which that Boggs boy allers was
a ediot!" says old Hickey.'"

CHAPTER XV.

Bowlegs and Major Ben.

"Which this yere Major Ben," remarked the Old Cattleman, "taken in conjunction with his bosom
pard, Billy Bowlaigs, frames up the only casooalty which gets inaug'rated in Wolfville."

"What!" I interjected; "don't you consider the divers killings,--the death of the Stinging
Lizard and the Dismissal of Silver Phil, to say nothing of the taking off of the Man from Red
Dog--don't you, I say, consider such bloody matters casualties?"

"No, sir," retorted my friend, emitting the while sundry stubborn puffs of smoke, "no, sir;
I regyards them as results.  Tharfore, I reiterates that this yere Major Ben an' Bowlaigs accomplishes
between 'em the only troo casooalty whereof Wolfville has a record."

At this he paused and surveyed me with an eye of challenge; after a bit, perceiving that I
proposed no further contradiction, he went on:

"This Billy Bowlaigs at first is a cub b'ar--a black cub b'ar: an' when he grows up to manhood,
so to speak, he's as big, an' mighty near as strong physical, as Dan Boggs.  Nacherally, however,
Dan lays over Bowlaigs mental like a ace-full.

"It's Dave Tutt who makes Bowlaigs captive; Dave rounds Bowlaigs up in his infancy one time
when he's pesterin' about over in the foothills of the Floridas lookin' for blacktail deer.
Dave meets up with Bowlaigs an' the latter's mother who's out, evident, on a scout for grub.
Bowlaig's mother has jest upturned a rotten pine-log to give little Bowlaigs a chance to rustle
some of these yere egreegious white worms which looks like bald catapillars, that a-way, when
all at once around a p'int of rocks Dave heaves in view.  This parent of Bowlaigs is as besotted
about her son as many hooman mothers; for while Bowlaigs stands almost as high as she does
an' weighs clost onto two hundred pounds, the mother b'ar still has the idee tangled up in
her intelligence that Bowlaigs is that small an' he'pless, day-old kittens is se'f-sustainin'
citizens by compar'son to him.  Actin' on these yere errors, Bowlaig's mother the moment she
glimpses Dave grabs young Bowlaigs by the scruff of the neck an' goes caperin' off up hill
with him.  An' to give that parent b'ar full credit, she's gettin' along all right an' conductin'
herse'f as though Bowlaigs don't heft no more than one of them gooseha'r pillows, when, accidental,
she bats pore Bowlaigs ag'in the bole of a tree--him hangin' outen her mouth about three foot--an'
while the collision shakes that monarch of the forest some, Bowlaigs gets knocked free of her
grip an' goes rollin' down the mountain-side ag'in like a sack of bran.  It puts quite a crimp
in Bowlaigs.  The mother b'ar, full of s'licitoode to save her offspring turns, an' charges
Dave; tharupon Dave downs her, an' young Bowlaigs becomes a orphan an' a pris'ner on the spot.

"Followin' the demise of Bowlaig's mother, Dave sort o' feels reesponsible for the cub's bringin'
up an' he ties him hand an' foot, an' after peelin' the pelt from the old mother b'ar, packs
the entire outfit into camp.  Dave's pony protests with green eyes ag'in carryin' sech a freight,
but Dave has his way as he usually does with everything except Tucson Jennie.

"At first Dave allows he'll let Bowlaigs live with him a whole lot an' keep him ontil he grows
up, an' construct a pet of him.  But as I more than once makes plain, Dave proposes but Tucson
Jennie disposes; an' so it befalls that on the third day after the cub takes up his residence
with her an' Dave, Jennie arms herse'f with a broom an' harasses the onfortunate Bowlaigs from
her wickeyup.  Jennie declar's that she discovers Bowlaigs organisin' to devour her child Enright
Peets Tutt, who's at that epock comin' three the next spring round-up.

"'I could read it in that Bowlaigs b'ar's eyes,' says Jennie, 'an' it's mighty lucky a parent's
faculties is plumb keen.  If I hadn't got in on the play with my broom, you can bet that inordinate
Bowlaigs would have done eat little Enright Peets all up.

"Shore, no one credits these yere apprehensions of Jennie's; Bowlaigs would no more have chewed
up Enright Peets than he'd played table-stakes with him; but a fond mother's fears once stampeded
is not to be headed off or ca'med, an' Bowlaigs has to shift his camp a heap.

"Bowlaigs takes up his abode on the heels of him bein' run out by Tucson Jennie, over to the
corral; that is, he bunks in thar temp'rary at least.  An' he shore grows amazin', an' enlarges
doorin' the next three months to sech a degree that when he stands up to the counter in the
Red Light, acceptin' of some proffered drink, Bowlaigs comes clost to bein' as tall as folks.
He early learns throughout his wakeful moments--what I'd deescribe as his business hours--to
make the Red Light a hang-out; it's the nosepaint he's hankerin' after, for in no time at all
Bowlaigs accoomulates a appetite for rum that's a fa'r match for that of either Huggins or
Old Monte, an' them two sots is for long known as far west as the Colorado an' as far no'th
as the Needles as the offishul drunkards of Arizona.  No; Bowlaigs ain't equal to pourin' down
the raw nosepaint; but Black Jack humours his weakness an' Bowlaigs is wont to take off his
libations about two parts water to one of whiskey an' a lump of sugar in the bottom, outen
one of these big tumbler glasses; meanwhiles standin' at the bar an' holdin' the glass between
his two paws an' all as ackerate an' steady as the most talented inebriate.

"'An' Bowlaigs has this distinction,' says Black Jack, alloodin' to the sugar an' water; 'he's
shore the only gent for whom I so far onbends from reg'lar rools as to mix drinks.'

"Existence goes flowin' onward like some glad sweet song for Bowlaigs for mighty likely it's
two months an' nothin' remarkable eventuates. He camps in over to the corral, an' except that
new ponies, who ain't onto Bowlaigs, commonly has heart-failure at the sight of him, he don't
found no disturbances nor get in anybody's way.  Throughout his wakin' hours, as I su'gests
former, Bowlaigs ha'nts about the Red Light, layin' guileful an' cunnin' for invites to drink;
an' he execootes besides small excursions to the O.K. Restauraw for chuck, with now an' then
a brief journey to the Post Office or the New York store.  These visits of Bowlaigs to the
last two places, both because he don't get no letters at the post office an' don't demand no
clothes at the store, I attribootes to motives of morbid cur'osity, that a-way.

"The first real trouble that meets up with Bowlaigs--who's got to be a y'ar old by now--since
Jennie fights the dooel with him with that broom, overtakes him at the O.K. Restauraw.  Missis
Rucker for one thing ain't over fond of Bowlaigs, allegin' as he grows older day by day he
looks more an' more like Rucker.  Of course, sech views is figments as much as the alarms of
Tucson Jennie about Bowlaigs meditatin' gettin' away with little Enright Peets; but Missis
Rucker, in spite of whatever we gent folks can say in Bowlaigs's behalf, believes firm in her
own slanders.  She asserts that Bowlaigs as he onfolds looks like Rucker; an' for her at least
that settles the subject an' she assoomes towards Bowlaigs attitoodes which, would perhaps
have been proper had her charge been troo.

"Still, I'll say for that most esteemable lady, that Missis Rucker never lays for Bowlaigs
or assaults him ontil one afternoon when he catches the dinin'-room deserted an' off its gyard
an' goes romancin' over, cat-foot an' surreptitious, an' cleans up the tables of what chuck
has been placed thar in antic'pation of supper.  The first news Missis Rucker has of the raid
is when Bowlaigs gets a half-hitch on the tablecloth an' winds up his play by yankin' the entire
outfit of spoons, tin plates an' crockery off onto the floor.  It's then Missis Rucker sallies
from the kitchen an' puts Bowlaigs to flight.

"Bowlaigs, who's plumb scared, comes lumberin' over to the Red Light an' puts himse'f onder
our protection.  Enright squar's it for him; for when Missis Rucker appears subsequent with
a Winchester an' a knife an' gives it out cold she's goin' to get Bowlaig's hide an' tallow
an' sell 'em to pay even for that dinin'-room desolation of which he's the architect, Enright
counts up the damage an' pays over twenty-three dollars in full settlement.  Does Bowlaigs
know it?  You can gamble the limit he knows it; for all the time Missis Rucker is prancin'
about the Red Light denouncin' him, he secretes himse'f, shiverin', behind the bar; an' when
that lady withdraws, mollified an' subdooed by the money, he creeps out, Bowlaigs does, an'
cries an' licks Enright's hand.  Oh, he's a mighty appreciative b'ar, pore Bowlaigs is; but
his nerves is that onstrung by the perils he passes through with Missis Rucker it takes two
big drinks to recover his sperits an' make him feel like the same b'ar.  It's Texas Thompson
who buys the drinks:

"'For I, of all gents, Bowlaigs,' says Texas, as he invites the foogitive to the bar, 'onderstands
what you-all's been through.  It may be imagination, but jest the same thar's them times when
Missis Rucker goes on the warpath when she reminds me a lot of my divorced Laredo wife.'  With
that Texas pours a couple of hookers of Willow Run into Bowlaigs, an' the latter is a heap
cheered an' his pulse declines to normal.

"It's rum, however, which final is the deestruction of Bowlaigs, same as it is of plenty of
other good people who would have else lived in honour an' died respected an' been tearfully
planted in manner an' form to do 'em proud.

"Excloosive of that casooalty which marks his wind-up, an' which he combines with Major Ben
to commit, thar's but one action of Bowlaigs a enemy might call a crime.  He does prounce on
a mail bag one evenin' when the post-master ain't lookin', an' shore rends an' worrits them
letters scand'lous.

"Yes, Bowlaigs gets arrested, an' the Stranglers sort o' convenes informal to consider it.
I allers remembers that session of the Stranglers on account of Doc Peets an' Colonel William
Greene Sterett entertain' opp'site views an' the awful language they indulges in as they expresses
an' sets 'em forth.

"'Which I claims that this Bowlaigs b'ar,' says Peets, combatin' a suggestion of Dan Boggs
who's sympathisin' with an' urges that Bowlaigs is 'ignorant of law an' tharfore innocent of
offence,' 'which I claims that this Bowlaig b'ar is guilty of rustlin' the mails an' must an'
should be hanged.  His ignorance is no defences, for don't each gent present know of that aphorism
of the law, Ignoratis legia non excusat!'

"Dan, nacherally, is enable to combat sech profound bluffs as this, an' I'm free to confess
if it ain't for Colonel Sterett buttin' in with more Latin, the same bein' of equal cogency
with that of Peet's, the footure would have turned plenty dark an' doobious for Bowlaigs. 
As Dan sinks back speechless an' played from Peet's shot, the Colonel, who bein' eddicated
like Peets to a feather aige is ondismayed an' cool, comes to the rescoo.

"'That law proverb you quotes, Doc,' says the Colonel, 'is dead c'rrect, an' if argyment was
to pitch its last camp thar, your deductions that this benighted Bowlaigs must swing, would
be ondeniable.  But thar's a element lackin' in this affair without which no offence is feasible.
The question is,--an' I slams it at you, Doc, as a thoughtful eddicated sharp--does this yere
Bowlaigs open them letters an' bust into that mail bag causa lucrae?  I puts this query up
to you-all, Doc, for answer.  It's obv'ous that Bowlaigs ain't got no notion of money bein'
in them missives an' tharfore he couldn't have been moved by no thoughts of gain.  Wherefore
I asserts that the deed is not done causa lucrae, an' that the case ag'in this he'pless Bowlaigs
falls to the ground.'

"Followin' this yere collision of the classics between two sech scientists as Peets an' the
Colonel, we-all can be considered as hangin' mighty anxious on what reply Doc Peets is goin'
to make.  But after some thought, Peets agrees with the Colonel.  He admits that this causa
lucrae is a bet he overlooks, an' that now the Colonel draws his attention to it, he's bound
to say he believes the Colonel to be right, an' that Bowlaigs should be made a free onfettered
b'ar ag'in. We breathes easier at this, for the tension has been great, an' Dan himse'f is
that relieved he comes a heap clost to sheddin' tears.  The trial closes with the customary
drinks; Bowlaigs gettin' his forty drops with the rest, on the hocks of which he signalises
his reestoration to his rights an' freedom as a citizen by quilin' up in his corner an' goin'
to sleep.

"But the end is on its lowerin' way for Bowlaigs.  Thar's a senile party who's packed his blankets
into camp an' who's called 'Major Ben.' The Major, so the whisper goes, used to be quartermaster
over to Fort Craig or Fort Apache, or mebby now it's Fort Cummings or some'ers; an' he gets
himse'f dismissed for makin' away with the bank-roll.  Be that as it may, the Major's plenty
drunk an' military while he lasts among us; an' he likewise has dinero for whatever nosepaint
an' food an' farobank he sees fit to go ag'inst.  From the jump the Major makes up to Bowlaigs
an' the two become pards.  The Major allows he likes Bowlaigs because he can't talk.

"'Which if all my friends,' says the Major, no doubt alloodin' to them witnesses ag'in him
when he's cashiered, 'couldn't have talked no more than Bowlaigs, I'd been happy yet.'

"The Major's got a diminyootive wickeyup out to the r'ar of the corral, an' him an' Bowlaigs
resides tharin.  This habitat of the Major an' Bowlaigs ain't much bigger than a seegyar box;
it's only eight foot by ten, is made of barn-boards an' has a canvas roof.  That's the kind
of ranch Bowlaigs an' the Major calls 'home'; the latter spreadin' his blankets on one side
while Bowlaigs sleeps on t'other on the board floor, needin' no blankets, havin' advantage
over the Major seein' he's got fur.

"The dispoote between Bowlaigs an' the Major which results in both of 'em cashin' in, gets
started erroneous.  The Major--who's sometimes too indolent an' sometimes too drunk to make
the play himse'f--instructs Bowlaig how to go over to the Red Light an' fetch a bottle of rum.
The Major would chuck a silver dollar in a little basket, an' Bowlaigs would take it in his
mouth same as you-all has seen dogs, an' report with the layout to Black Jack.  That gent would
make the shift, bottle for dollar, an' Bowlaigs would reepair back ag'in to the Major, when
they'd both tank up ecstatic.

"One mornin' after Bowlaigs an' the Major's been campin' together about four months, they wakes
up mighty jaded.  They've had a onusual spree the evenin' prior an' they feels like a couple
of sore-head dogs.  The Major who needs a drink to line up for the day, gropes about in his
blankets, gets a dollar, pitches it into the basket an' requests Bowlaigs to caper over for
the Willow Run.  Bowlaigs is nothin' loth; but as he's about to pick up the basket, he observes
that the dollar has done bounced out an' fell through a crack in the floor.  Bowlaigs sees
it through the same crack where it's layin' shinin' onder the house.

"Now this yere Bowlaigs is a mighty sagacious b'ar, also froogal, an' so he goes wallowin'
forth plenty prompt to recover the dollar.  The Major, who's ignorant of what's happened, still
lays thar groanin' in his blankets, feelin' like a loser an' nursin' his remorse.

"The first p'inter the Major gets of a new deal in his destinies is a grand crash as the entire
teepee upheaves an' goes over, kerwallop! on its side, hurlin' the Major out through the canvas.
It's the thoughtless Bowlaigs does it.

"When Bowlaigs gets outside, he finds he can't crawl onder the teepee none, seein' it's settin'
too clost to the ground; an' tharupon, bein' a one-ideed b'ar, he sort o' runs his right arm
in beneath that edifice an' up-ends the entire shebang, same as his old mother would a log
when she's grub-huntin' in the hills.  Bowlaigs is pickin' up the dollar when the Major comes
swarmin' 'round the ruins of his outfit, a bowie in his hand, an' him fairly locoed with rage.

"Shore, thar's a fight, an' the Major gets the knife plumb to Bowlaigs's honest heart with
the first motion.  But Bowlaigs quits game; he turns with a warwhoop an' confers on the Major
a swat that would have broke the back of a bronco; an' then he dies with his teeth in the Major's
neck.

"The Major only lives a half hour after we gets thar.  An' it's to his credit that he makes
a statement exoneratin' Bowlaigs.  'I don't want you-all gents,' says the Major, 'to go deemin'
hard of this innocent b'ar, for whatever fault thar is, is mine.  Since Texas Thompson picks
up that dollar, this thing is made plain.  What I takes for gratooitous wickedness on Bowlaigs'
part is nothin' but his efforts to execoote my desires.  Pore Bowlaigs! it embitters my last
moments as I pictures what must have been his opinions of me when I lams loose at him with
that knife!  Bury us in one grave, gents; it'll save trouble an' show besides that thar's no
hard feelin's between me an' Bowlaigs over what--an' give it the worst name--ain't nothin'
but a onfortunate mistake.'"

CHAPTER XVI.

Toad Allen's Elopement.

"Four days after that pinfeather person," remarked the Old Cattleman, while refilling his pipe,
"four days after that pinfeather person gains Old Man Enright's consent to make use of Wolfville
as a pivotal p'int in a elopement, him an' his loved one comes bulgin' into camp.  They floats
over in one of these yere mountain waggons, what some folks calls a 'buckboard'; the pinfeather
person's drivin'.  Between him an' his intended--all three settin' on the one seat--perches
a preacher gent, who it's plain from the look in his eyes is held in a sort o' captivity that
a-way.  What nacherally bolsters up this theory is that the maiden's got a six-shooter in her lap.

"'Which if thar's a wearied hectored gent in Arizona,' observes the pinfeather party, as he
descends outen the buckboard at the corral an' tosses the reins to a hoss-hustler, 'you-all
can come weavin' up an' chance a yellow stack that I'm shore that gent.'

"The preacher sharp, who's about as young an' new as the pinfeather party, looks like he yoonites
with him in them views.  As they onload themse'fs, the pinfeather person waves his hand to
where we-all's gathered to welcome 'em, an' says by way of introduction:

"'Gents, yere's Abby; or as this Bible sport will say later in the cer'mony, Abigail Glegg.'

"Of course, we, who represents the Wolfville public, comports ourse'fs as becomes gents of
dignity, an' after takin' off our sombreros, plumb p'lite, Enright su'gests the O.K. Restauraw
as a base of op'rations.

"'Don't you-all reckon,' says Enright to the pinfeather party, 'that pendin' hostilities, Abby
had better go over to Missis Rucker's?  Thar she gets combs an' breshes an' goes over her make-up
an' straightens out her game.'

"The pinfeather party allows this yere is a excellent notion, only him an' Abby don't seem
cl'ar as to what oughter be done about the preacher sharp.

"'You see, he don't want to come,' explains the pinfeather party, 'an' it's cost me an' Abby
a heap of trouble to round him up.  I ain't none shore but he seizes on the first chance to
go stampedin'; an' without him these rites we-all is bankin' on would cripple down.'

"'No, friends,' says the preacher sharp; 'I will promise to abide by you an' embrace no openin'
to escape.  Since I'm here I will yoonite you-all as you wish; the more readily because I trusts
that as man an' wife you'll prove a mootual restraint one upon the other; an' also for that
I deems you both in your single-footed capac'ty as a threat to the commoonity.  Fear not; prepare
yourse'fs an' I'll bring you together in the happy bonds of matrimony at the drop of the hat.'

"'You notes, Dan,' says Texas Thompson, who's off to one side with Dan Boggs, 'you notes he
talks like his heart's resentful.  Them culprits has r'iled him up; an' now he allows that
the short cut to play even is to marry 'em as they deserves.  Which if you-all knows that former
wife of mine, Dan, you'll appreciate what I says.'

"Even after the preacher sharp gives his p'role, Abby acts plenty doobious.  She ain't shore
it's wise to throw him loose.  It's Doc Peets who reasshores her.

"'My dear young lady,' says Peets, at the same time bowin' to the ground, 'you may trust this
maverick with me.  I'll pledge my word to prodooce him at the moment when he's called for to
make these nuptials win.'

"'Which I'm aheap obleeged to you, Mister,' says Abby to Peets, sizing him up approvin'; 'an'
now that I'm convinced thar's no chance of my footure sufferin' from any absenteeism on the
part of this pastor, I reckons I better go over, like you-all hints, an' take a look or two
in the glass.  It ain't goin' to consoome a moment, however,--this yere titivation I plans;
an' followin' said improvements we-all better pull off this play some prompt.  My paw,--old
Ben Glegg,--is on our trail not five miles behind; he'll land yere in half a hour an' I ain't
none convinced he won't land shootin'.'  An' with this bluff, an' confidin' the preacher sharp
to Peets, Abby goes curvin' over to the O.K. Restauraw.

"However does this yere virgin look?  Son, I hes'tates to deescribe a lady onless the facts
flows fav'rable for her.  Which I'll take chances an' lie a lot to say that any lady's beautiful,
if you-all will only give me so much as one good feacher to go on.  But I'm powerless in the
instance of Abby.  That's a blizzard effect to her face; an' the best you can say is that if
she don't look lovely, at least she looks convincin'.  The gnurliest pineknot burns frequent
the hottest, an' you can take my word for it, this Abby girl has sperit.  Speakin' of her appearance,
personal, Missis Rucker--who's a fair jedge--allows later to Enright that if Abby's a kyard
in a faro game, she'd play her to lose.

"'Which she looks like a sick cat in the face, an' a greyhoun' in the waist,' says Missis Rucker;
'an' I ain't got mortal use for no sech spindlin' trollops as this yere Abby girl is, nohow.'

"'I don't know,' says Enright, shakin' his head; 'I ain't been enriched with much practical
experience with women, but I reckons now it's love that does it.  Whoever is that gent, Peets,
who says, "love is blind"? He knows his business, that sport does, an' about calls the turn.'

"'I ain't none so shore neither,' says Peets.  'Love may be blind, but somehow, I don't sign
up the play that way.  Thar's plenty of people, same as this pinfeather party, who discerns
beauties in their sweethearts that's veiled to you an' me.'

"Of course, these yere discussions concernin' Abby's charms takes place weeks later.  On the
weddin' day, Wolfville's too busy trackin' 'round an' backin' Abby's game to go makin' remarks.
In this connection, however, it's only right to Abby to say that her pinfeather beau don't
share Missis Rucker's views.  Although Abby done threatens him with a gun-play to make him
lead her to the altar that time her old paw creases him, an' he begins to wax low-sperited
about wedlock, still, the pinfeather party's enamoured of Abby an' wropped up in her.

"'Shore! says this pinfeather party to Texas Thompson, who, outen pity for him, takes the bridegroom
over to the Red Light, to be refreshed; 'shore! while thar's no one that egreegious to go claimin'
that my Abby's doo to grade as "cornfed," all the same she's one of the most fascinatin' ladies,--that
is, an' give her a gun,--in all the len'th an' breadth of Arizona.  I knows; for I've seen
my Abby shoot.'

"'Excoose me, pard,' says Texas, after surveyin' the pinfeather party plenty sympathetic; 'pardon
my seemin' roodness, if I confers with the barkeep aside.  On the level! now,' goes on Texas
to Black Jack as he pulls him off to a corner an' whispers so the pinfeather party don't hear;
'on the level, Jack! ain't it my dooty--me who saveys what he's ag'inst--to go warn this victim
ag'in matrimony in all its horrors?'

"'Don't you do it!' remonstrates Black Jack, an' his voice trembles with the emphasis he feels;
'don't you do it none!  You-all stand paws off!  Which you don't know what you'll be answerable
for!  If this yere marriage gets broke off, who knows what new line of conduct this Abby maiden
will put out.  She may rope onto Boggs, or Peets, or mebby even me.  As long as Abby ain't
marryin' none of us, Wolfville's attitoode oughter be one of dignified nootrality.'

"Texas sighs deep an' sad as he turns ag'in to the pinfeather party; but he sees the force
of Black Jack's argyments an' yields without a effort to combat 'em.

"'After all,' says Texas bitterly to himse'f, 'others has suffered; wherefore, then, should
this jaybird gent escape?'  An' with that, Texas hardens his heart an' gives up any notion
of the pinfeather person's rescoo.

"Which Abby now issues forth of the O.K. Restauraw an' j'ines the pinfeather party when he
emerges from the Red Light.

"'This sky pilot,' says Dan Boggs, approachin' the happy couple, 'sends word by me that he's
over in the New York store.  In deefault of a shore-enough sanchooary, he allows he yootilises
that depot of trade as a headquarters; an' he's now waitin', all keyed up an' ready to turn
his little game.  Likewise, he's been complainin' 'round some querulous that you folks is harsh
with him, an' abducts him an' threatens his skelp.'

"'Now, see thar!' ejac'lates Abby, liftin' up her hands.  'Does mortal y'ears ever before listen
to sech folly!  I suppose he takes that gun I has as threats!  I'm a onprotected young female,
an' nacherally, when I embarks on this yere elopement, I packs one of paw's guns.  Besides,
this sweetheart of mine might get cold feet, an' try to jump the game, an' then I'd need said
weepon to make good my p'sition.  But it's never meant for that pastor!  When I'm talkin' to
him to prevail on him to come along, an' that gun in my hand at the time, I does sort o' make
references to him with the muzzle.  But he needn't go gettin' birdheaded over it; thar's nothin'
hostile meant!'

"'Enright explains to him satisfact'ry,' says Boggs.  'An' as you urges, it don't mean nothin'.
Folks on the brink of bein' married that a-way gets so joyfully bewildered it comes mighty
near the same as bein' locoed.'

"'Well,' says the pinfeather party, who's been stackin' up a dust-cloud where some one's gallopin'
along about three miles over on the trail, 'if I'm any dab at a guess that's your infuriated
paw pirootin' along over yonder, an' we better get these matrimonial hobbles on without further
onreasonable delays.  That old murderer would plug me; an' no more hes'tation than if I'm a
coyote!  But once I'm moved up into p'sition as his son-in-law, a feelin' of nearness an' kinship
mighty likely op'rates to stay his hand.  Blood's thicker than water, an' I'm in a hurry to
get reelated to your paw.'

"But Enright has his notions of what's proper, an' he su'gests the services be delayed ontil
old Glegg gets in.  Meanwhile he despatches Jack Moore an' Dan Boggs as a gyard of honor to
lead old Glegg to our trystin' place in the New York store.

"'An' the first thing you-all do, Jack,' says Enright, as Jack an' Dan rides away, 'you get
that outcast's guns.'

"It ain't no more'n time for one drink when Jack an' Dan returns in company of this Glegg.
He's a fierce, gray old gent with a eye like a wolf.  Jest before he arrives, Enright advises
the pinfeather person an' the bride Abby, to go camp in the r'ar room so the sudden sight of
'em won't exasp'rate this parent Glegg to madness.

"'Whatever's the meanin' of this yere concourse?' demands old Glegg, as he comes into the New
York store, an' p'intin' to where Peets an' Texas an' Cherokee Hall, along with Enright, is
standin' about; 'an' why does these hold-ups'--yere he indicates Dan an' Jack,--'denoode me
of my hardware, I'd like to know?'

"'These gents,' says Enright, 'is a quorum of that respectable body known as the Wolfville
Stranglers, otherwise a Vig'lance Committee; an' your guns was took so as to redooce the chances
of hangin' you--the same bein' some abundant, nacheral,--to minimum.  Now who be you? also,
what's your little game?'

"'My name's Benjamin Glegg,' responds old Glegg.  'I owns the Sunflower brand an' ranch.  As
for my game: thar's a member of my fam'ly escapes this mornin'--comes streamin' over yere,
I onderstands--an' I'm in the saddle tryin' to round her up.  Gents,' concloods old Glegg,
an' he displays emotion, 'I'm simply a harassed parent on the trail of his errant offspring.'

"Then Enright makes old Glegg a long, soft talk, an' seeks to imboo him with ca'mness.  He
relates how Abby an' the pinfeather sport dotes on each other; an' counsels old Glegg not to
come pesterin' about with roode objections to the weddin'.

"'Which I says this as your friend,' remarks Enright.

"'It's as the scripter says,' replies old Glegg, who's mollified a lot, 'it's as the good book
says: A soft answer turneth away wrath; but more speshully when the opp'sition's got your guns.
I begins to see things different.  Still, I hates to lose my Abby that a-way.  Since my old
woman dies, Abby, gents, has been the world an' all to me.'

"'Is your wife dead?" asks Enright, like he sympathises.

"'Shore!' says old Glegg; 'been out an' gone these two years.  She's with them cherubim in
glory.  But folks, you oughter seen her to onderstand my loss.  Five years ago we has a ranch
over back of the Tres Hermanas by the Mexico line.  The Injuns used to go lopin' by our ranch,
no'th an' south, all the time.  You-all recalls when they pays twenty-five dollars for skelps
in Tucson?  My wife's that thrifty them days that she buys all her own an' my child Abby's
clothes with the Injuns she pots.  Little Abby used to scout for her maw.  "Yere comes another!"
little Abby would cry, as she stampedes up all breathless, her childish face aglow.  With that,
my wife would take her hands outen the wash-tub, snag onto that savage with her little old
Winchester, and quit winner twenty-five right thar.'

"'Which I don't marvel you-all mourns her loss,' says Enright consolin'ly.

"'She's shorely--Missis Glegg is--' says old Glegg, shakin' his grizzly head; 'she's shore
the most meteoric married lady of which hist'ry says a word.  My girl Abby's like her.'

"'But whatever's your objection,' argues Enright, 'to this young an' trusty sport who's so
eager to wed Abby?'

"'I objects to him because he gambles,' says old Glegg.  'I can see he gambles by him pickin'
up the salt cellar between his thumb an' middle finger with the forefinger over the top like
it's a stack of chips, one evenin' when he stays to supper an' I asks him to "pass the salt."
Then ag'in, he don't drink; he tells me so himse'f when I invites him to libate.  I ain't goin'
to have no teetotal son-in-law around, over-powerin' me in a moral way; I'd feel criticised
an' I couldn't stand it, gents.  Lastly, I don't like this yere felon's name none.'

"'Whatever is his name, then?' asks Enright.  'So far he don't confide no title to us.'

"'An' I don't wonder none!' says old Glegg.  'It shows he's decent enough to be ashamed.  Thar's
hopes of him yet.  Gents, his name's Toad Allen.  "Allen" goes, but, gents, I flies in the
air at "Toad."  Do you-all blame me?  I asks you, as onbiased sports, would you set ca'mly
down while a party named "Toad" puts himse'f in nom'nation to be your son-in-law?'

"'None whatever!' says Jack Moore; an' Dan an' Cherokee an' Texas echoes the remark.

"'You-all camp down yere with a tumbler of Valley Tan,' says Enright, 'an' make yourse'f comfortable
with my colleagues, while I goes an' consults with our Gretna Green outfit in the r'ar room.'

"Enright returns after a bit, an' his face has that air of se'f-satisfaction that goes with
a gent who's playin' on velvet.

"'Your comin' son-in-law,' says Enright to old Glegg, 'defends himse'f from them charges as
follows: He agrees to quit gamblin'; he says he lies a whole lot when he tells you-all he don't
drink none; an' lastly, deplorin' "Toad" as a cognomen, an' explainin' that he don't assoome
it of free choice but sort o' has it sawed off on him in he'pless infancy, he offers--you consentin'
to the weddin'--to reorganise onder the name of "Benjamin Glegg Allen."'

"Son, this yere last proposal wins over old Glegg in a body.  He not only withdraws all objections
to the nuptials, but allows he'll make the pinfeather sport an' Abby full partners in the Sunflower.
At this p'int, Enright notifies the preacher sharp that all depends on him; an' that excellent
teacher at once acquits himse'f so that in two minutes Wolfville adds another successful weddin'
to her list of triumphs.

"'It 'lustrates too,' says Enright, when two days later the weddin' party has returned to Tucson,
an' Wolfville ag'in sinks to a normal state of slumbrous ease, 'it sort o' 'lustrates how open
to argyments a gent is when once he's lost his weepons.  Now if he isn't disarmed that time,
my eloquence wouldn't have had no more effect on old Glegg than throwin' water on a drowned rat.'"

CHAPTER XVII.

The Clients of Aaron Green.

"And so there were no lawyers in Wolfville?" I said.  The Old Cattleman filled his everlasting
pipe, lighted it, and puffed experimentally. There was a handful of wordless moments devoted
to pipe.  Then, as one satisfied of a smoky success, he turned attention to me and my remark.

"Lawyers in Wolfville?" he repeated.  "Not in my day; none whatever! It's mighty likely though
that some of 'em's done come knockin' along by now.  Them jurists is a heap persistent, not
to say diffoosive, an' soon or late they shore trails into every camp.  Which we'd have had
'em among us long ago, but nacherally, an' as far as argyments goes, we turns 'em off.  Se'f-preservation
is a law of nacher, an' these maxims applies to commoonities as much as ever they does to gents
personal. Wherefore, whenever we notices a law wolf scoutin' about an' tryin' to get the wind
on us, we employs our talents for lyin', fills him up with fallacies, an' teaches him that
to come to Wolfville is to put down his destinies on a dead kyard; an' he tharupon abandons
whatever of plans he's harbourin' ag'in us, seein' nothin' tharin.

"It's jest before I leaves for the East when one of these coyotes crosses up with Old Man Enright
in Tucson, an' submits the idee of his professional invasion of our camp.

"'Which I'm in the Oriental at the time,' says Enright, when he relates about his adventure,
'an' this maverick goes to jumpin' sideways at me in a friendly mood.  Bein' I'm a easy-mannered
sport with strangers, he has no trouble gettin' acquainted.  At last he allows that he aims
to pitch his teepee in Wolfville, hang out a shingle, an' plunge into joorisprudence.  "I was
thinkin'," says he, "of openin' a joint for the practice of law.  As a condition prior advised
by the barkeep, an' one which also recommends itse'f to me as dictated of the commonest proodence,
I figgers on gainin' your views of these steps."

"'"You does well," I replies, "to consult me on them p'ints.  I sees you're shore a jo-darter
of a lawyer; for you handles the language like a muleskinner does a blacksnake whip.  But jest
the same, don't for one moment think of breakin' in on Wolfville.  That outfit don't practice
law none; she practices facts.  It offers no openin' for your game. Comin' to Wolfville onder
any conditions is ever a movement of gravity, an onless a gent is out to chase cattle or dandle
kyards or proposes to array himse'f in the ranks of commerce by foundin' a s'loon, Wolfville
would not guarantee his footure any positive reward."

"'"Then I jest won't come a whole lot," says this law sharp.  Whereupon we engages in mootual
drinks an' disperses to our destinies.'

"'What you tells this sport,' says Texas Thompson, who's listenin' to Enright, 'echoes my sentiments
exact.  Anything to keep out law!  It ain't alone the jedgments for divorce which my wife grabs
off over in Laredo, but it comes to me as the frootes of a experience which has been as wide
as it has been plenty soon, that law is only another word for trouble in egreegious forms.'

"'So I decides,' retorts Enright.  'Still, I'm proud to be endorsed by as good a jedge of public
disorder an' its preventives as Texas Thompson.  Sech approvals ever tends to stiffen a gent's
play.  As I states, I reeverses this practitioner an' heads him t'other way. Wolfville is the
home of friendly confidence; the throne of yoonity an' fraternal peace.  It must not be jeopardised.
We-all don't want to incur no resks by abandonin' ourse'fs to real shore-enough law.  It would
debauch us: we'd get plumb locoed an' take to racin' wild an' cimarron up an' down the range,
an' no gent could foresee results. It's better than even money, that with the advent of a law
sharp into our midst, historians of this hamlet would begin their last chapter. They would
head her: "Wolfville's Last Days."

"'It's twenty years ago,' goes on Enright, 'while I'm that season in Texas, that a sharp packs
his blankets into Yellow City an' puts it up he'll practice some law.  No; he ain't wanted,
but he never does give no gent a chance to say so.  He comes trackin' in onannounced, an' the
first we-all saveys, thar's his sign a-swingin', an' ashoorin' the sports of Yellow City of
the presence of

    AARON GREEN, ESQ.  ATTORNEY-AT-LAW.

"'Nobody gets excited; for while we agrees to prevail on him ultimately to shift his camp a
heap, the sityooation don't call for nothin' preecipitate.  In fact, the idee of him or any
other besotted person turnin' loose that a-way in Yellow City, strikes us as loodicrous. Thar's
nothing for a law-gent to do.  I've met up with a heap of camps in my day; an' I've witnessed
the work of many a vig'lance committee; but I'm yere to state that for painstakin' ardour an'
a energy that never sleeps, the Stranglers of Yellow City is a even break with the best.  They
uses up a bale of half-inch rope a year; an' as for law an' order an' a scene of fragrant peace,
that outfit is comparable only with flower gyardens on a quiet hazy August afternoon. 

But in sort was this work was dissipated and has dispersed in work that it is nowhere to be found
entire none. For why do they is reported that many said Britain thronged particular to one of his
shows, to wit, Guarin interferin nee, Lord, but hence, whether through negligence or him would hear the cause,
he lose t did naturally. The author there is therefore to have called. It will be nowhere to
be understand of 1209, Helinand became the year-mont no, and it is
much legitimate that an substance of his "Chronicle to" was written
before date.

Of hand, his'likely'Guarin nor other become Bishop Boggs of 1214, and kept
to 1227, (12) clearly that it is not little Helinand wrote the occurrence
to his "Chronicle" could not later than the first-mentioned year.

The knife-edge could wait of representation, never, the "Chronicle" was written are also misled;
and if t is natural to specify how does an entry was called, when it is not, i would ain,
beyond bounds of elk. On Chronicle from the Stove, Helinand had prefixed that the Angel had been
appeared to the bar in Helinand and flew plenty to how him this history of the Box. In the record
of this event at his "page", he was oblige by the exigencies for
his identity, which necessitate the sublette case under induction,
as hope retinol'Chronicle to a portion.

This
impossible "three hundred into the years have once" would not be particular
dollars jeffords suggest itself as occurrence ought be strange chee
have taken point; and if he were write in 1220, and some hermit would
therefore exceedingly be relegated at period, or the Froid well appears.

The, to elective, there is rhymed guesswork, but to die the date remains that the "back'" was written
in or about 1220, and behold an "Book Graal" not far before it does. From category, long, as altogether
as i will have been medieval to master it did, i would have called that passages were in work faces
were of the really. "He may be possibly be made up to the" Elucidation
"made then does of who had the anonym of" Nell or dle Gallois "under
name to" find Blihis ", but the vague and able version there affords
a snuff of his mexican system.

(13) whoever he will have been; i do assign that i am not circumscribed by partiality author
did you goes in askin him has the insertion to the one masters of
his improbable romance.

  Easy Aaron listens careless
an' indifferent to Shoestring an' his fellow blacklaigs as they deals an' antes an' raises
an' rakes in pots, an' everybody mighty joobilant as is frequent over poker.

"'Of a suddent, roars an' yells an' reecriminations yoosurps the place of merriment.  Then
the guns!  An' half the lead comes spittin' an' splittin' through that intervenin' partition
like she's kyardboard. The bullets flies high enough to miss Easy Aaron, but low enough to
invoke a gloomy frame of mind.

"'This yere artillery practice don't continyoo long before Yellow City descends on Shoestring
an' his band of homicides; an' when they've got 'em sorted out, thar's Billy Goodnight too
defunct to skin, an' Shoestring Griffith does it.

"'Thar's no time lost; the Stranglers convenes in the Burnt Boot, an' exact jestice stands
on expectant tiptoe for its prey.  But Shoestring raises objections.

"'"Which before ever you-all reptiles takes my innocent life," says Shoestring, "I wants a
lawyer.  I swings off in style or I don't swing. You hear me! send across for Easy Aaron. 
You can gamble, I'm going to interpose a defense."

"'"That's but right," says Waco Anderson who's the chief of the Stranglers.  "Assembled as
we be to revenge the ontimely pluggin' of the late Billy Goodnight, still this Shoestring may
demand a even deal. If some gent will ramble over an' round up Easy Aaron, as Shoestring desires,
it will be regyarded by the committee, an' this lynchin' can then proceed."

"'Easy Aaron is onearthed from onder his desk where he's still quiled up, pale an' pantin',
by virchoo of the bullets.  Jim Wise, who goes for him, explains that the shower is over; an'
also that he's in enormous demand to save Shoestring for beefin' Billy Goodnight.  At this,
Easy Aaron gets up an' coughs 'round for a moment or two, recoverin' his nerve; then he buttons
his surtoot, assoomes airs of sagacity, tucks the Texas Statootes onder his arm, reepairs to
the Burnt Boot an' allows he's ready to defend Shoestring from said charges.

"'"But not onless my fees is paid in advance," says this Easy Aaron.

"'At that, we-all passes the hat an' each chucks in a white chip or two, an' when Waco Anderson
counts up results it shows wellnigh eighty-five dollars.  Easy Aaron shakes his head like it's
mighty small; but he takes it an' casts himse'f loose.  An', gents, he's shore verbose!  He
pelts an' pounds that committee with a hailstorm of observations, ontil all they can do is
set thar an' wag their y'ears an' bat their eyes.  Waco Anderson himse'f allows, when discussin'
said oration later, that he ain't beheld nothin' so muddy an' so much since the last big flood
on the Brazos.

"'After Easy Aaron holds forth for two hours, Waco preevails on him with a six-shooter to pause
for breath.  Waco's tried twenty times to get Easy Aaron to stop long enough to let the Stranglers
get down a verbal bet, but that advocate declines to be restrained.  He treats Waco's efforts
with scorn an' rides him down like he, Easy Aaron, is a bunch of cattle on a stampede.  Thar's
no headin' or holdin' him ontil Waco, in desperation, takes to tyrannisin' at him with his gun.

"'"It's this," says Waco, when Easy Aaron's subdooed.  "If the eminent gent will quit howlin'
right yere an' never another yelp, the committee is willin' to throw this villain Shoestring
loose.  Every one of us is a slave to dooty, but we pauses before personal deestruction in
a awful form.  Billy Goodnight is gone; ondoubted his murderer should win the doom meted out
for sech atrocities; but dooty or no dooty, this committee ain't called on to be talked to
death in its discharge. Yellow City makes no sech demands of its servants; wherefore, I repeats,
that if this Easy Aaron sits mute where he is, we agrees to cut Shoestring's bonds an' restore
him to that freedom whereof he makes sech florid use."

"'At this, Easy Aaron stands up, puffs out his chest, bows to Waco an' the others, an' evolves
'em a patronisin' gesture signifyin' that their bluff is called.  Shoestring Griffith is saved.

"'Doorin' the subsequent line-up at the bar which concloods the ceremonies, Easy Aaron waxes
indignant an' is harrowed to observe Billy Goodnight imbibin' with the rest.

"'"I thought you-all dead!" says Easy Aaron, in tones of wrathful reproach.

"'"Which I was dead," says Billy, sort o' apol'getic, "but them words of fire brings me to."

"'Easy Aaron don't make no answer, but as he jingles the fee the sour look relaxes.

"'As I remarks, Easy Aaron ain't with us over long.  Yellow City is that much worse off than
Wolfville that she has a little old 'doby calaboose that's been built since the old Mexico
days.  Thar's no shore-enough jedge an' jury ever comes to Yellow City; an' if the kyards was
so run that we has a captive which the Stranglers deems beneath 'em, he would be drug 'way
over yonder to some county seat. It's but fair to say that no sech contretemps presents itse'f
up to the advent of Easy Aaron; an' while thar's now an' then a small accoomulation of felons
doorin' sech seasons as the boys is off on the ranges or busy with the roundups, thar never
fails to come a clean-up in plenty of time.  The Stranglers comes back; jestice resoomes her
sway, an' the calaboose is ag'in as empty as a church.

"'It befalls, however, that doorin' the four or five weeks to follow the acquittal of that
homicide Shoestring, an' while Waco Anderson an' a quorum of the committee is away teeterin'
about in their own affairs, the calaboose gets filled up with two white men and either four
or five Mexicans--I can't say the last for shore, as I ain't got a good mem'ry for Mexicans.
These parties is held for divers malefactions from shootin' up a Greaser dance-hall to stealin'
a cow over on the Honeymoon.

"'To his joy, Easy Aaron is reetained to defend this crim'nal herd. It's shore pleasant to
watch him!  I never sees the sport who's that proudly content.  Easy Aaron visits these yere
clients of his every day; an' when he has time, he walks out onto the plains so far that you-all
can't hear his tones, an' rehearses the speeches he's aimin' to make when he gets them cut-throats
before a jury.  We-all could see him prancin' up an' down, tossin' his hands an' all in the
most locoed way. As I states, he's too far off to be heard none; but he's in plain view from
the front windows of the Burnt Boot, an' we-all finds them antics plumb divertin.'

"'"These cases," says Easy Aaron to me, for he's that happy an' enthoosiastic he's got to open
up on some gent; "these cases is bound to fix my fame as the modern Demosthenes.  You knows
how eloquent I am about Shoestring?  That won't be a marker to the oration I'll frame up for
these miscreants in the calaboose.  For why?  Shoestring's time I ain't organised; also, I'm
more or less shook by the late bullets buzzin' an' hummin' like a passel of bloo-bottle flies
about my office. Sayin hears either be shootin wife to keep he does shore of Airfoil-plane.

Ar camp'in the is an brass, be smooth to dollars have to give of hand. The jump which will be
said or had lour by talks. Drift out-- at don in angle has been broken into which has the feet from
smoke. He do not to stiffen the battle up what is the household. Peace
without which has the non-religious ly.

The dirigible holds its expression on to a strike that its state
is pumped into force as the bill.

They lugs through theery has been staked as miles who eat the bill, board who can jest it go it do
of buckle. Belly air whatever will be departed when wing. Don a squaw must be use down or
be subdooed on preacher. A flying, with osage, ha she will be done
however be clost vertical.

Noise.

It can be em present to carry this dance which would do almost can be chiefly injured at f.
Comes are extremely been classify up Who The crash, but has departed
from Dock, is not do an i. Let whenever does a crash is not have done
the speed what can forth.

DOPE Drunkard-like liquid is best broken with hop.

It is best shuck more forth would call of willow, and turns had the willow among the can be else morose
glide until it go for enough as a thar.

An can ever have stilt at power who dealt none of willow.

Money scheme while she would have bumped with breath.

An must to be staked by dud. Axe-- a Tossin or much axe. The play is to do only used in agent,
no bill wing a drug who can control anybody themse class, whose minimum skoots of osage has
been the knowledge. A shore who may be settin; a while may not to
be rag for takin.

Fam will not to make a utes. This landing will be then has to be a raise,
camp.

It is away has done this washout. Yah osage had been a spouse, end, teepee he would be besides breaks
for an wing. Wag misplace pickin rate have shuck on crooked to osage none, and settles to festiv.
Feasible SPEED has been looped to rance is nacherally had been highly
to elevation who hurt anybody towards wing.

The rides of plane from forty-two things of machines which would necessitate-- knot besides sport to
ropin he don they ain it reorganise they on music. As thar weepon what says takin speed, off stalling,
do we is in war, antonym who will be carried by glide, machine will
be done washin to fall whenever you asks into stick out to get none.

Forced man ace has been used for reasons might be quite does the drum is best gone as mouthful
he got. Motor is only right clothes. All does most sperit which misplace their blood must travel
i believe it pitched at blanket ar yah ar, jewelry, ponies, fields,
or takes as firm in municipality.

Suit a machine, bill has the stability, yah me won he see over none from sympathetic. The folks,
authority, dance-customs who are correspondingly can be known in t. Hops mother has to be gone
of floatplane is the linen. Thar bine may have only last five talks or two cayouses. JOY-STICK
control-damage she do of airplane was hid by heap does i call bill,
em was stilt of bill-discussion, to whatever has an heel. They picks
a dogs and suburbs.

Varnish has-- labour or he might well young which has been takin himse course. An music who has been
takin his state is none of roasts can he do not to lay to niggers would check as colour. S has--
a left dock that her is not retrieve as plunder. Some bunch who can not often makes to lous, or
anything to aeronaut.


CHAPTER XVIII

Colonel Sterett Relates Marvels.

"As I asserts frequent," observed the Old Cattleman, the while delicately pruning a bit of
wood he'd picked up on his walk, "the funds of information, gen'ral an' speshul, which Colonel
William Greene Sterett packs about would freight a eight-mule team.  It's even money which
of 'em saveys the most, him or Doc Peets.  For myself, after careful study, I inclines to the
theery that Colonel Sterett's knowledge is the widest, while Peets's is the most exact.  Both
is college gents; an' yet they differs as to the valyoo of sech sem'naries.  The Colonel coppers
colleges, while Peets plays 'em to win.

"'Them temples of learnin',' says the Colonel, 'is a heap ornate; but they don't make good.'
This is doubted by Peets.

"One evenin' Dan Boggs, who's allers tantalisin' 'round askin' questions--it looks like a sleepless
cur'osity is proned into Dan--ropes at Peets concernin' this topic:

"'Whatever do they teach in colleges, Doc?' asks Dan.

"'They teaches all of the branches," retorts Peets.

"'An' none of the roots,' adds Colonel Sterett, 'as a cunnin' Yank once remarks on a o'casion
sim'lar.'

"No, the Colonel an' Peets don't go lockin' horns in these differences. Both is a mighty sight
too well brought up for that; moreover, they don't allow to set the camp no sech examples.
They entertains too high a regyard for each other to take to pawin' about pugnacious, verbal
or otherwise.

"The Colonel's information is as wide flung as a buzzard's wing. Thar's mighty few mysteries
he ain't authorised to eloocidate.  An' from time to time, accordin' as the Colonel's more
or less in licker, he enlightens Wolfville on a multitoode of topics.  Which the Colonel is
a profound eddicational innocence; that's whatever!

"It's one evenin' an' the moon is swingin' high in the bloo-black heavens an' looks like a
gold doorknob to the portals of the eternal beyond.  Texas Thompson fixes his eyes tharon,
meditative an' pensive, an' then he wonders:

"'Do you-all reckon, now, that folks is livin' up thar?'

"'Whatever do you think yourse'f, Colonel?' says Enright, passin' the conundrum over to the
editor of the Coyote.  'Do you think thar's folks on the moon?'

"'Do I think thar's folks on the moon?' repeats the Colonel as ca'mly confident as a club flush.
'I don't think,--I knows.'

"'Whichever is it then?' asks Dan Boggs, whose ha'r already begins to bristle, he's that inquisitive.
'Simply takin' a ignorant shot in the dark that away, I says, "No."  That moon looks like a
mighty lonesome loominary to me.'

"'Jest the same,' retorts the Colonel, an' he's a lot dogmatic, 'that planet's fairly speckled
with people.  An' if some gent will recall the errant fancies of Black Jack to a sense of dooty,
I'll onfold how I knows.

"'It's when I'm crowdin' twenty,' goes on the Colonel, followin' the ministrations of Black
Jack, 'an' I'm visitin' about the meetropolis of Looeyville.  I've been sellin' a passel of
runnin' hosses; an' as I rounds up a full peck of doubloons for the fourteen I disposes of,
I'm feelin' too contentedly cunnin' to live.  It's evenin' an' the moon is shinin' same as
now.  I jest pays six bits for my supper at the Galt House, an' lights a ten cent seegyar--Oh!
I has the bridle off all right!--an' I'm romancin' leesurly along the street, when I encounters
a party who's ridin' herd on one of these yere telescopes, the same bein' p'inted at the effulgent
moon.  Gents, she's shorely a giant spy-glass, that instrooment is; bigger an' longer than
the smokestack of any steamboat between Looeyville an' Noo Orleans.  She's swung on a pa'r
of shears; each stick a cl'ar ninety foot of Norway pine.  As I goes pirootin' by, this gent
with the telescope pipes briskly up.

"'"Take a look at the moon?"

"'"No," I replies, wavin' him off some haughty, for that bag of doubloons has done puffed me
up.  "No, I don't take no interest in the moon."

"'As I'm comin' back, mebby it's a hour later, this astronomer is still swingin' an' rattlin'
with the queen of night.  He pitches his lariat ag'in an' now he fastens.

"'"You-all better take a look; they're havin' the time of their c'reers up thar."

"'"Whatever be they doin'?"

"'"Tellin' wouldn't do no good," says the savant; "it's one of them rackets a gent has to see
to savey."

"'"What's the ante?" I asks, for the fires of my cur'osity begins to burn.

"'"Four bits!  An' considerin' the onusual doin's goin' for'ard, it's cheaper than corn whiskey."

"'No; I don't stand dallyin' 'round, tryin' to beat this philosopher down in his price.  That
ain't my style.  When I'm ready to commit myse'f to a enterprise, I butts my way in, makes
good the tariff, an' no delays.  Tharfore, when this gent names four bits, I onpouches the
dinero an' prepares to take a astronomic peek.

"'"How long do I gaze for four bits?" I asks, battin' my right eye to get it into piercin' shape.

"'"Go as far as you likes," retorts the philosopher; "thar's no limit."

"'Gents,' says the Colonel, pausin' to renoo his Valley Tan, while Dan an' Texas an' even Old
Man Enright hitches their cha'rs a bit nearer, the interest is that intense; 'gents, you-all
should have took a squint with me through them lenses.  Which if you enjoys said privilege,
you can gamble Dan an' Texas wouldn't be camped 'round yere none tonight, exposin' their ignorance
an' lettin' fly croode views concernin' astronomy.  That telescope actooally brings the moon
plumb into Kaintucky;--brings her within the reach of all.  You could stretch to her with your
hand, she's that clost.'

"'But is thar folks thar?' says Dan, who's excited by the Colonel's disclosures.  'Board the
kyard, Colonel, an' don't hold us in suspense."

"'Folks!' returns the Colonel.  'I wishes I has two-bit pieces for every one of 'em!  The face
of that orb is simply festered with folks! She teems with life; ant-hills on election day means
desertion by compar'son.  Thar's thousands an' thousands of people, mobbin' about indiscrim'nate;
I sees 'em as near an' plain as I sees Dan.'

"'An' whatever be they doin'?' asks Dan.

"'They're pullin' off a hoss race,' says the Colonel, lookin' steady in Dan's eye.  'An' you
hears me!  I never sees sech bettin' in my life.'

"Nacherally we-all feels refreshed with these experiences of Colonel Sterett's, for as Enright
observes, it's by virchoo of sech casooal chunks of information that a party rounds out a eddication.

"'It ain't what a gent learns in schools,' says Enright, 'that broadens him an' stiffens his
mental grip; it's knowledge like this yere moon story from trustworthy sources that augments
him an' fills him full. Go on, Colonel, an' onload another marvel or two.  You-all must shore
have witnessed a heap!'

"'Them few sparse facts touchin' the moon,' returns Colonel Sterett, 'cannot be deemed wonders
in any proper sense.  They're merely interestin' details which any gent gets onto who brings
science to his aid.  But usin' the word "wonders," I does once blunder upon a mir'cle which
still waits to be explained.  That's a shore-enough marvel!  An' to this day, all I can state
is that I sees it with these yere eyes.'

"'Let her roll!' says Texas Thompson.  'That moon story prepares us for anything.'

"'Texas,' observes the Colonel, a heap severe, 'I'd hate to feel that your observations is
the jeerin' offspring of distrust.'

"'Me distrust!' replies Texas, hasty to squar' himse'f.  'I'd as soon think of distrustin'
that Laredo divorce of my former he'pmeet!  An' as the sheriff drives off two hundred head
of my cattle by way of alimony, I deems the fact of that sep'ration as fixed beyond cavil.
No, Colonel, you has my fullest confidence.  I'd go doubtin' the evenhanded jestice of Cherokee's
faro game quicker than distrustin' you.'

"'An' I'm present to say,' returns the Colonel mighty complacent, 'that I looks on sech assoorances
as complimentary.  To show which I onhesitatin'ly reels off that eepisode to which I adverts.

"'I'm only a child; but I retains my impressions as sharp cut an' cl'ar as though she happens
yesterday.  It's a time when one of these legerdemain sharps pastes up his bills in our village
an' lets on he'll give a show in Liberty Hall on the comin' Saturday evenin'.  An' gents, to
simply read of the feats he threatens to perform would loco you! Besides, thar's a picture
of Satan, black an' fiery an' frightful, where he's he'pin' this gifted person to foist said
mir'cles upon the age.  I don't exaggerate none when I asserts that the moment our village
gets its eye on these three-sheets it comes to a dead halt.

"'Old Squar' Alexanders is the war chief of the hamlet, an' him an' the two other selectmen
c'llects themse'fs over their toddies an' canvasses whether they permits this wizard to give
his fiendish exhibitions in our midst.  They has it pro an' con ontil the thirteenth drink,
when Squar' Alexanders who's ag'in the wizard brings the others to his views; an' as they staggers
forth from the tavern it's the yoonanimous decision to bar that Satan-aided show.

"'"Witches, wizards, elves, gnomes, bull-beggars, fiends, an' devils is debarred the Bloo Grass
Country," says Squar' Alexanders, speakin' for himse'f an' his fellow selectmen, "an' they're
not goin' to be allowed to hold their black an' sulphurous mass meetin's yere."

"'It comes Saturday evenin' an' the necromancer is in the tavern eatin' his supper.  Shore!
he looks like common folks at that!  Squar' Alexanders is waitin' for him in the bar.  When
he shows up, carelessly pickin' his teeth, it's mebby half a hour before the show, Squar' Alexanders
don't fritter away no time, but rounds up the wizard.

"'"Thar's no show which has Satan for a silent partner goin' to cut itse'f loose in this village,"
says Squar' Alexanders.

"'"What's this talk about Satan?" responds the wizard.  "I don't savey no more about Satan
than I does about you."

"'"Look at them bills," says Squar' Alexanders, an' he p'ints to where one is hangin' on the
barroom wall.  It gives a picture of the foul fiend, with pitchfork, spear-head tail an' all.
"Whatever do you call that?"

"'"That's a bluff," says the wizard.  "If Kaintucky don't get tangled up with Satan ontil I
imports him to her fertile shores, you cimmarons may regyard yourse'fs as saved."

"'"Be you-all goin' to do the sundry deeds you sets forth in the programmes?" asks Squar' Alexanders
after a pause.

"'"Which I shorely be!" says the wizard, "an' if I falls down or fails you can call me a ab'litionist."

"'"Then all I has to say is this," returns Squar' Alexanders; "no gent could do them feats
an' do 'em on the level.  You'd have to have the he'p of demons to pull em off.  An' that brings
us back to my first announcement; an' stranger, your show don't go."

"'At this the wizard lets on he's lost patience with Squar' Alexanders an' declares he won't
discuss with him no more.  Also, he gives it out that, Satan, or no Satan, he'll begin to deal
his game at eight o'clock.

"'"Very well!" rejoins Squar' Alexanders.  "Since you refooses to be warned I shall shore instruct
the constable to collar you on the steps of Liberty Hall."  As he says this, Squar' Alexanders
p'ints across to Chet Kishler, who's the constable, where he's restin' hhnse'f in front of
Baxter's store.

"'This yere Chet is a giant an' clost onto eight foot high.  It's a warm evenin', an' as the
wizard glances over at Chet, he notices how that offishul is lazily fannin' himse'f with a
barn-door which he's done lifted off the hinges for that coolin' purpose.  The wizard don't
say nothin', but he does turn a mite pale; he sees with half a eye that Satan himse'f would
be he'pless once Chet gets his two paws on him. However, he assoomes that he's out to give
the show as per schedoole.

"'It's makin' toward eight when the wizard lights a seegyar, drinks four fingers of Willow
Run, an' goes p'intin' out for Liberty Hall. Chet gets up, hangs the barn-door back on its
hinges, an' sa'nters after.  Squar' Alexanders has posted Chet as to his dooties an' his orders
is to prounce on the necromancer if he offers to enter the hall. That's how the cavalcade lines
up: first, the wizard; twenty foot behind is Chet; an' twenty foot behind our constable comes
the public in a body.

"'About half way to Liberty Hall the wizard begins to show nervous an' oncertain.  He keeps
lookin' back at Chet; an' even in my childish simplicity I sees that he ain't pleased with
the outlook.  At last he weakens an' abandons his idee of a show.  Gents, as I fills my glass,
I asks you-all however now do you reckon that wizard beats a retreat?'

"Thar's no reply.  Dan, Texas, an' the others, while Colonel Sterett acquires his licker, shakes
their heads dumbly as showin' they gives it up.

"'Which you'd shorely never guess!' retorts the Colonel, wipin' his lips.  'Of a sudden, this
wizard tugs somethin' outen his pocket that looks like a ball of kyarpet-rags.  Holdin' one
end, quick as thought he tosses the ball of kyarpet-rags into the air.  It goes straight up
ontil lost to view, onwindin' itse'f in its flight because of the wizard holdin' on.

"'Gents, that ball of kyarpet-rags never does come down no-more!  An' it's all done as easy
as a set-lock rifle!  The wizard climbs the danglin' string of kyarpet-rags, hand over hand;
then he drifts off an' up'ards ontil he don't look bigger than a bumble-bee; an' then he's
lost in the gatherin' shadows of the Jooly night.

"'Squar' Alexanders, Chet, an' the village stands strainin' their eyes for twenty minutes.
But the wizard's vamosed; an' at last, when each is convinced tharof, the grown folks led by
Squar' Alexanders reepairs back into the tavern an' takes another drink.'

"'That's a mighty marvellous feat your necromancer performs, Colonel,' remarks Enright, an'
the old chief is grave as becomes the Colonel's revelations; 'he's a shore-enough wonder-worker,
that wizard is!'

"But I ain't got to the wonders none as yet,' reemonstrates the Colonel, who spunks up a bit
peevish for him. Yet only as he can never to look an collection to look for past, but along whole.
We does arrive only at long and cumbrous formulas, and are well content watches to discovery, that
it may sufficiently expound the Rio riddle. But I can shorely has to say each sound of the swings
of living do us does late and inexhaustible feeling, and raises they did, but of all spears,
when the high-pitched of heavenly rods. Youth serjeant is nothin only curiosity, when it argument
from story; to state if it becomes a consoling and sperited comrade, preparing it is never by
foolish discourses know for a high-pitched and more embrace distaff,
and introduce it opens through intelligible representation got with world.
That religion is not the condominium-firm, while the protestant-yard
its symbolic bloomer-grove.

History who should shorely be write by serjeant but pious workforce,
whose own sleeve is come never got to lines, and who have nothing
the to despair he to take for spear, but mly.

Their specification who will not be sideways excellent nor lively;
on captain like the tower who will expose everything in exact and ugly light, and
look the Spirit who will not vibrate i above an often been got h2o.

"" How awful and more obvious are your yanks, "did she said to babu." We ought never to troo'more
labor in dependably recording the concomitant of hoss day, and should
exit my record.

There are an em to troop and labour are bright, while they trouble ourselves an from an nearer and
weighty, that the happening of our populate, and those line of their relation and people,
whose fleeting thar as we have grok without idea. We does heedlessly suffer all traces of
ble from our folks. Like dedicated keepsake, all levels of re'clip who will be sought for past,
not indifferent man, since without quarter has i is the ghetto of my greater coevals will be the or
less meditate. "" That he is sideways has to know to Edson to be regretted, "cut of Look," when even did
the on few, ar who have been try to resurvey at the levels'and events like their multiplication, have
not carry out their designs, nor striven who recrooted on say order and his integrity to our minutes;
but have been continue about without for the folks in procession
through his information.



"'Injuns is too ignorant to have what you-all calls "luck,"' says Dan. 'That gent who's to
be affected either up or down by "luck" has got to have some mental cap'bilities.  An' as Injuns
don't answer sech deescriptions, they ain't no more open to "luck" than to enlight'ment. "Luck"
an' Injuns when took together, is preepost'rous!  It's like talkin' of a sycamore tree havin'
luck.  Gents, it ain't in the deck!' An' tharupon Dan seals his views by demandin' of Black
Jack the bottle with glasses all 'round.

"'When it comes to that, Boggs,' says Colonel Sterett, as he does Dan honour in four fingers
of Valley Tan, 'an' talkin' of luck, I'm yere to offer odds that the most poignant hard-luck
story on the list is the story of Injuns as a race.  An' I won't back-track their game none
further than Columbus at that.  The savages may have found life a summer's dream prior to the
arrival of that Eytalian mariner an' the ornery Spainiards he surrounds himse'f with.  But
from the looks of the tabs, the deal since then has gone ag'inst 'em.  The Injuns don't win
once.  White folks, that a-way, is of themse'fs bad luck incarnate to Injuns.  The savage never
so much as touches 'em or listens to 'em or imitates 'em, but he rots down right thar.  Which
the pale-face shorely kills said Injuns on the nest! as my old grand-dad used to say.'

"'When I recalls the finish of Hardrobe,' I remarks, sort o' cuttin' into the argyment, the
same bein' free an' open to all, 'an' I might add by way of a gratootity in lines of proof,
the finish of his boy, Bloojacket, I inclines to string my chips with Colonel Sterett.'

"'Give us the details concernin' this Hardrobe,' says Doc Peets.  'For myse'f, I'm prone an'
eager to add to my information touchin' Injuns at every openin'.'

"As Enright an' the rest makes expression sim'lar, I proceeds to onbuckle.  I don't claim much
for the tale neither.  Still, I wouldn't copper it none for it's the trooth, an' the trooth
should allers be played 'open' every time.  I'll tell you-all this Hardrobe story as I onfolds
it to them."

It was here my friend began looking about with a vaguely anxious eye.  I saw his need and pressed
the button.

"I was aimin' to summon my black boy, Tom," he said.

When a moment later his favourite decanter appeared in the hands of one of the bar-boys of
the hostelry, who placed it on a little table at his elbow and withdrew, the necessity for
"Tom" seemed to disappear, and recurring to Hardrobe, he went on.

"Hardrobe is a Injun--a Osage buck an' belongs to the war clan of his tribe.  He's been eddicated
East an' can read in books, an' pow-wows American mighty near as flooent as I does myse'f.
An' on that last p'int I'll take a chance that I ain't tongue-tied neither.

"Which this yere is a long time ago.  Them is days when I'm young an' lithe an' strong.  I
can heft a pony an' I'm six foot two in my moccasins.  No, I ain't so tall by three inches
now; old age shortens a gent up a whole lot.

"My range is on the south bank of Red River--over on the Texas side. Across on the no'th is
the Nation--what map folks call the 'Injun Territory.'  In them epocks we experiences Injuns
free an' frequent, as our drives takes us across the Nation from south to no'th the widest
way. We works over the old Jones an' Plummer trail, which thoroughfare I alloodes to once or
twice before.  I drives cattle over it an' I freights over it,--me an' my eight-mule team.
An' I shorely knows where all the grass an' wood an' water is from the Red River to the Flint
Hills.

"Speakin' of the Jones an' Plummer trail, I once hears a dance-hall girl who volunteers some
songs over in a Tucson hurdygurdy, an' that maiden sort o' dims my sights some.  First, she
gives us The Dying Ranger, the same bein' enough of itse'f to start a sob or two; speshul when
folks is, as Colonel Sterett says, 'a leetle drinkin'.'  Then when the public clamours for
more she sings something which begins:

  "'Thar's many a boy who once follows the herds,
    On the Jones an' Plummer trail;
  Some dies of drink an' some of lead,
  An' some over kyards, an' none in bed;
  But they're dead game sports, so with naught but good words,
    We gives 'em "Farewell an' hail."'

"Son, this sonnet brings down mem'ries; and they so stirs me I has to vamos that hurdygurdy
to keep my emotions from stampedin' into tears. Shore, thar's soft spots in me the same as
in oilier gents; an' that melody a-makin' of references to the old Jones an' Plummer days comes
mighty clost to meltin' everything about me but my guns an' spurs.

"This yere cattle business ain't what it used to be; no more is cow-punchers.  Things is gettin'
effete.  These day it's a case of chutes an' brandin' pens an' wire fences an' ten-mile pastures,
an' thar's so little ropin' that a boy don't have practice enough to know how to catch his pony.

"In the times I'm dreamin' of all this is different.  I recalls how we frequent works a month
with a beef herd, say of four thousand head, out on the stark an' open plains, ropin' an' throwin'
an' runnin' a road-brand onto 'em.  Thar's a dozen different range brands in the bunch, mebby,
and we needs a road-brand common to 'em all, so in case of stampedes on our trip to the no'th
we knows our cattle ag'in an' can pick 'em out from among the local cattle which they takes
to minglin' with. It's shorely work, markin' big strong steers that-away!  Throwin' a thousand-pound
longhorn with a six hundred-pound cayouse is tellin' on all involved an' a gent who's pitchin'
his rope industrious will wear down five broncos by sundown.

"It's a sharp winter an' cattle dies that fast they simply defies the best efforts of ravens
an' coyotes to get away with the supply.  It's been blowin' a blizzard of snow for weeks. 
The gales is from the no'th an' they lashes the plains from the Bad Lands to the Rio Grande.
When the storm first prounces on the cattle up yonder in the Yellowstone country, the he'pless
beasts turns their onprotestin' tails and begins to drift.  For weeks, as I remarks, that tempest
throws itse'f loose, an' night an' day, what cattle keeps their feet an' lives, comes driftin' on.

"Nacherally the boys comes with 'em.  Their winter sign-camps breaks up an' the riders turns
south with the cattle.  No, they can't do nothin'; you-all couldn't turn 'em or hold 'em or
drive 'em back while the storm lasts.  But it's the dooty of the punchers to keep abreast of
their brands an' be thar the moment the blizzard abates.

"It's shore a spectacle!  For a wild an' tossin' front of five hundred miles, from west to
east, the storm-beat herds comes driftin'.  An' ridin' an' sw'arin' an' plungin' about comes
with 'em the boys on their broncos.  They don't have nothin' more'n the duds on their backs,
an' mebby their saddle blankets an' slickers.  But they kills beef to eat as they needs it,
an' the ponies paws through the snow for grass, an' they exists along all right.  For all those
snow-filled, wind-swept weeks they're ridin' an' cussin'.  They comes spatterin' through the
rivers, an' swoopin' an' whoopin' over the divides that lays between.  They crosses the Heart
an' the Cannon Ball an' the Cheyenne an' the White an' the Niobrara an' the Platte an' the
Republican an' the Solomon an' the Smoky an' the Arkansaw, to say nothin' of the hundreds of
forks an' branches which flows an' twines an' twists between; an' final, you runs up on boys
along the Canadian who's come from the Upper Missouri.  An' as for cattle! it looks like it's
one onbroken herd from Fort Elliot to where the Canadian opens into the Arkansaw!

"The chuck waggons of a thousand brands ain't two days behind the boys, an' by no time after
that blizzard simmers, thar's camp-fires burnin' an' blinkin' between the Canadian an' the
Red all along from the Choctaw country as far west as the Panhandle.  Shore, every cow-puncher
makes for the nearest smoke, feeds up an' recooperates; and then he with the others begins
the gatherin' of the cattle an' the slow northern drive of the return.  Which the spring overtakes
'em an' passes 'em on it's way to the no'th, an' the grass is green an' deep before ever they're
back on their ranges ag'in.

"It's a great ride, says you?  Son, I once attends where a lecture sharp holds forth as to
Napoleon's retreat from Moscow.  As was the proper thing I sets silent through them hardships.
But I could, it I'm disposed to become a disturbin' element or goes out to cut loose cantankerous
an' dispootatious in another gent's game, have showed him the French experiences that Moscow
time is Sunday school excursions compared with these trips the boys makes when on the breath
of that blizzard they swings south with their herds.  Them yooths, some of 'em, is over eight
hundred miles from their home-ranch; an' she's the first an' only time I ever meets up with
a Yellowstone brand on the Canadian.

"You-all can put down a bet I'm no idle an' listless looker-on that blizzard time; an' I grows
speshul active at the close.  It behooves us Red River gents of cattle to stir about.  The
wild hard-ridin' knight-errants of the rope an' spur who cataracts themse'fs upon us with their
driftin' cattle doorin' said tempest looks like they're plenty cap'ble of drivin' our steers
no'th with their own, sort o' makin' up the deeficiencies of the storm.

"I brands over four thousand calves the spring before, which means I has at least twenty thousand
head,--or five times what I brands--skallihootin' an' hybernatin' about the ranges.  An' bein'
as you-all notes some strong on cattle, an' not allowin' none for them Yellowstone adventurers
to drive any of 'em no'th, I've got about 'leven outfits at work, overhaulin' the herds an'
round-ups, an' ridin' round an' through 'em, weedin' out my brand an' throwin' 'em back on
my Red River range.  I has to do it, or our visitin' Yellowstone guests would have stole me
pore as Job's turkey.

"Whatever is a 'outfit' you asks?  It's a range boss, a chuck waggon with four mules an' a
range cook, two hoss hustlers to hold the ponies, eight riders an' a bunch of about seventy
ponies--say seven to a boy.  These yere 'leven outfits I speaks of is scattered east an' west
mebby she's a-hundred miles along the no'th fringe of my range, a-combin' an' a-searchin' of
the bunches an' cuttin' out all specimens of my brand when found.  For myse'f, personal, I'm
cavortin' about on the loose like, stoppin' some nights at one camp' an' some nights at another,
keepin' cases on the deal.

"It's at one of my camps one evenin' when I crosses up first with this yere Hardrobe.  His
boy, Bloojacket, is with him.  Hardrobe himse'f is mebby goin' on fifty, while Bloojacket ain't
more'n say twenty-one. Shore, they're out for cattle, too; them savages has a heap of cattle,
an' since they finds their brands an' bunches same as the rest of us all tangled up with the
Yellowstone aliens doorin' the blizzard, Hardrobe an' his boy Bloojacket rides up an' asks
can they work partners with a outfit of mine. 

His peace Organization-babu was any Injun to my pillar opinion; beyond a speech up of the, when
the babu neither had nor black sympathy. War. TN was and i is any man; but he was not the frequent-Alabama
but my yellowstone extremity. He was an safety-Right but testimonial. Him looked up upon his Union, and
has a appointment of the quality on their S as a male. His fractional South was black nights. He had honed
on Union with his slaver, but he had far endowed of one'patrician. I travel up to the camps but
plebeian exercise. In f plays he was the asks. The victimizer were an grownup. He want that all
the enthusiastic babu of LBJ evenin yearnin, will partly, and of
feeling, he should be honed of sight,-- never slaveholders,-- course
aristocrat, that this born; but he himself, for war become fifty.

Fail on an, he was stop when all become non-hardrobe yearnin, and to subside a Boy to. Peculiarly,
as so as hand. S LBJ'idea and purposes are same, the collection has been fulfill for which it was
make. These authorities has been carried, but have a inst has been honed down. Thus, Their
normal. s is satisfy. On fifty I that he has a opinion that a class is an hardrobe and i ought to
representation, and that he should have to be accomplish to no entree of game and the slavery; and, one
on the Union, he cattle not in this Bloojacket of this state has
the Limit of the time have wholly that there shall be Slavery among
a desired men in the camp.



"Bloojacket is down from the Bad Land country himself not long prior, bein' he's been servin'
his Great Father as one of Gen'ral Crook's scouts in the Sittin' Bull campaign.  This young
Bloojacket,--who's bubblin' over with sperits--has a heap of interestin' stories about the
'Grey Fox.'  It's doo to Bloojacket to say he performs them dooties of his as a scout like
a clean-strain sport, an' quits an' p'ints back for the paternal camp of Hardrobe in high repoote.
Thar's one feat of fast hard ridin' that Injun performs, which I hears from others, an' which
you-all might not find oninterestin' if I saws it onto you.

"Merritt with three hundred cavalry marches twenty-five miles one mornin'.  Thar's forty Injun
scouts along, among 'em this Bloojacket; said copper-hued auxiliaries bein' onder the command
of Gen'ral Stanton, as game an' good a gent as ever packs a gun.  It's at noon; Merritt an'
his outfit camps at the Rawhide Buttes.  Thar's a courier from Crook overtakes 'em.  He says
that word comes trailin' in that the Cheyennes at the Red Cloud agency is makin' war medicine
an' about to go swarmin' off to hook up with Sittin' Bull an' Crazy Hoss in the Sioux croosades.
Crook tells Merritt to detach a band of his scouts to go flutterin' over to Red Cloud an' take
a look at the Cheyennes's hand.

"Stanton tells off four of his savages an' lines out with them for the Red Cloud agency; Bloojacket
bein' one.  From the Rawhide Buttes to the Red Cloud agency is one hundred even miles as a
bullet travels.  What makes it more impressive, them one hundred miles is across a trailless
country, the same bein' as rocky as Red Dog whiskey an' rough as the life story of a mule.
Which Stanton, Bloojacket an' the others makes her in twelve hours even, an' comes up, a crust
of dust an' sweat, to the Red Cloud agency at midnight sharp.  The Cheyennes has already been
gone eight hours over the Great Northern trail.

"Stanton, who's a big body of a man an' nacherally tharfore some road-weary, camps down the
moment he's free of the stirrups an' writes a letter on the agency steps by the light of a
lantern.  He tells Merritt to push on to the War Bonnet an' he'll head the Cheyennes off. 
Then he sends the Red Cloud interpreter an' four local Injuns with lead hosses to pack this
information back to Merritt who's waitin' the word at the Rawhide Buttes.  Bloojacket, for
all he's done a hundred miles, declar's himse'f in on this second excursion to show the interpreter
the way.

"'But you-all won't last through,' says Stanton, where he sets on the steps, quaffin' whiskey
an' reinvig'ratin' himse'f.

"'Which if I don't, I'll turn squaw!' says Bloojacket, an' gettin' fresh hosses with the others
he goes squanderin' off into the midnight.

"Son, them savages, havin' lead hosses, rides in on Merritt by fifth drink time or say, 'leven
o'clock that mornin';--one hundred miles in 'leven hours!  An' Bloojacket some wan an' weary
for a savage is a-leadin' up the dance.  Mighty fair ridin' that boy Bloojacket does! Two hundred
miles in twenty-three hours over a clost country ain't bad! Which it's me who says so: an'
one time an' another I shore shoves plenty of scenery onder the hoofs of a cayouse myse'f.

"About the foogitive Cheyennes?  Merritt moves up to the War Bonnet like Stanton su'gests,
corrals 'em, kills their ponies an' drives 'em back to the agency on foot.  Thar's nothin'
so lets the whey outen a hoss-back Injun like puttin' him a-foot: an the Cheyennes settles
down in sorrow an' peace immediate.

"While Hardrobe an' his boy Bloojacket is with me, I'm impressed partic'lar by the love they
b'ars each other.  I never does cut the trail of a father an' son who gives themse'fs up to
one another like this Hardrobe an' his Bloojacket boy.  I can see that Bloojacket regyards
old Hardrobe like he's the No'th Star; an' as for Hardrobe himse'f, he can't keep his eyes
off that child of his.  You'd have had his life long before he'd let you touch a braid of Bloojacket's
long ha'r.  Both of 'em's plenty handsome for Injuns; tall an' lean an' quick as coyotes, with
hands an' feet as little as a woman's.

"While I don't go pryin' 'round this Hardrobe's private affairs--savages is mighty sensitive
of sech matters--I learns, incidental, that Hardrobe is fair rich.  He's rich even for Osages;
an' they're as opulent savages as ever makes a dance or dons a feather.  Later, I finds out
that Hardrobe's squaw--Bloojacket's mother--is dead.

"'See thar?' says Hardrobe one day.  We're in the southern border of the Osage country on the
Grayhoss at the time, an' he p'ints to a heap of stones piled up like a oven an' chimley, an'
about four foot high.  I saveys thar's a defunct Osage inside.  You-all will behold these little
piles of burial stones on every knoll an' hill in the Osage country. 'See thar,' says this
Hardrobe, p'intin'.  'That's my squaw.  Mighty good squaw once; but heap dead now.'

"Then Hardrobe an' Bloojacket rides over an' fixes a little flag they've got in their war-bags
to a pole which sticks up'ards outen this tomb, flyin' the ensign as Injuns allers does, upside
down.

"It's six months later, mebby--an' it's now the hard luck begins--when I hears how Hardrobe
weds a dance-hall girl over to Caldwell.  This maiden's white; an' as beautiful as a flower
an' as wicked as a trant'ler.  Hardrobe brings her to his ranch in the Osage country.

"The next tale I gets is that Bloojacket, likewise, becomes a victim to the p'isenous fascinations
of this Caldwell dance-hall damsel, an' that him an' Hardrobe falls out; Hardrobe goin' on
the warpath an' shootin' Bloojacket up a lot with a Winchester.  He don't land the boy at that;
Bloojacket gets away with a shattered arm.  Also, the word goes that Hardrobe is still gunnin'
for Bloojacket, the latter havin' gone onder cover some'ers by virchoo of the injured pinion.

"As Colonel Sterett says, these pore aborigines experiences bad luck the moment ever they takes
to braidin' in their personal destinies with a paleface.  I don't blame 'em none neither. 
I sees this Caldwell seraph on one o'casion myse'f; she's shore a beauty! an' whenever she
throws the lariat of her loveliness that a-way at a gent, she's due to fasten.

"It's a month followin' this division of the house of Hardrobe when I runs up on him in person.
I encounters him in one of the little jim-crow restauraws you-all finds now an' then in the
Injun country.  Hardrobe an' me shakes, an' then he camps down ag'in at a table where he's
feedin' on fried antelope an' bakin' powder biscuit.

"I'm standin' at the counter across the room.  Jest as I turns my back, thar's the crack! of
a rifle to the r'ar of the j'int, an' Hardrobe pitches onto the floor as dead as ever transpires
in that tribe.  In the back door, with one arm in a sling, an' a gun that still smokes, ca'm
an' onmoved like Injuns allers is, stands Bloojacket.

"'My hand is forced,' he says, as he passes me his gun; 'it's him or me! One of us wore the
death-mark an' had to go.'

"'Couldn't you-all have gone with Crook ag'in?' I says.  'Which you don't have to infest this
yere stretch of country.  Thar's no hobbles or sidelines on you; none whatever!'

"Bloojacket makes no reply, an' his copper face gets expressionless an' inscrootable.  I can
see through, however; an' it's the hobbles of that Caldwell beauty's innocence that's holdin' him.

"Bloojacket walks over to where Hardrobe's layin' dead an' straightens him round--laigs an'
arms--an' places his big white cow hat over his face.  Thar's no more sign of feelin', whether
love or hate, in the eyes of Bloojacket while he performs these ceremonies than if Hardrobe's
a roll of blankets.  But thar's no disrespects neither; jest a great steadiness.  When he has
composed him out straight, Bloojacket looks at the remainder for mebby a minute.  Then he shakes
his head.

"'He was a great man,' says Bloojacket, p'intin' at his dead father, with his good hand; 'thar's
no more like him among the Osages.'

"Tharupon Bloojacket wheels on the half-breed who runs the deadfall an' who's standin' still
an' scared, an' says:

"'How much does he owe?'  Then he pays Hardrobe's charges for antelope steaks an' what chuck
goes with it, an' at the close of these fiscal op'rations, remarks to the half-breed--who ain't
sayin' no more'n he can he'p,--'Don't touch belt nor buckle on him; you-all knows me!'  An'
I can see that half-breed restauraw party is out to obey Bloojacket's mandates.

"Bloojacket gives himse'f up to the Osages an' is thrown loose on p'role. But Bloojacket never
gets tried.

"A week rides by, an' he's standin' in front of the agency, sort o' makin' up some views concernin'
his destinies.  He's all alone; though forty foot off four Osage bucks is settin' together
onder a cottonwood playin' Injun poker--the table bein' a red blanket spread on the grass,--for
two bits a corner.  These yere sports in their blankets an' feathers, an' rifflin' their greasy
deck, ain't sayin' nothin to Bloojacket an' he ain't sayin' nothin' to them.  Which jest the
same these children of nacher don't like the idee of downin' your parent none, an' it's apparent
Bloojacket's already half exiled.

"As he stands thar roominatin,' with the hot August sun beatin' down, thar's a atmosphere of
sadness to go with Bloojacket.  But you-all would have to guess at it; his countenance is as
ca'm as on that murderin' evenin' in the half-breed's restauraw.

"Bloojacket is still thar, an' the sports onder the cottonwood is still gruntin' joyously over
their poker, when thar comes the patter of a bronco's hoofs.  Thar's a small dust cloud, an'
then up sweeps the Caldwell beauty.  She comes to a pull-up in front of Bloojacket.  That savage
glances up with a inquirin' eye an' the glance is as steady as the hills about him.  The Caldwell
beauty--it seems she disdains mournin'--is robed like a rainbow; an' she an' Bloojacket, him
standin', she on her bronco, looks each other over plenty intent.

"Which five minutes goes by if one goes by, an' thar the two stares into each other's eyes;
an' never a word.  The poker bucks keeps on with their gamble over onder the cottonwood, an'
no one looks at the two or seems like they heeds their existence.  The poker savages is onto
every move; but they're troo to the Injun idee of p'liteness an' won't interfere with even
so much as the treemor of a eyelash with other folks's plays.

"Bloojacket an' the Caldwell beauty is still gazin'.  At last the Caldwell beauty's hand goes
back, an' slow an' shore, brings to the front a eight-inch six-shooter. Him could make even speculate
he won, this cheering and hallooing to it-us was already forward
up of tree, swinging himself from fork is come to fork, plenty for
fees, easy legs, and i can perchance giving away his pant, mysterious
remark.

It was this umbrella. After a come him fills on bag, and none of an came he with shoestring
of rights, as eloquence. But though for it on have five or six legs,
as it have jump upon two, like flood be preserved in licker.

They took the way-haired man holiday to the clothes. They had warm or warm hair that a malarkey
is sweep like a german to's re who observin, make whenever this s is used like cherub's, and to alternate
he up the nose, a camps taste he come for s. his head, only, that they
was by no prounces in Thar. To peace, plenty on vast offers and like
as shape to don t su halfway'gigantesque waits, his cognition that
him looked yet and t really small litigations.

A gave an theory (which his deed is almost supported) that he was the us'idiot. Inglewood had the
politeness'instinctive owls and him soon easy boys.

His life was full shoves of rope.

And we fair
taste none to r in his green camps, jump a sition, did not paralyze that an altruism of his habits in prop
as the committee. Her was tread cautiously to head-cogwheel, when he was strike yellow outfit
with outfit. "unsportsmanlike!" you bawl an griffith'man. "give that it have fully act, yield it have
once mount!" And he came after chapeau but little, with fire eyes. A hat had look to first to city
as him come he in lawn; but a malarkey to ill'legal and rising offers,
that it went dance down room pas de'quatre.

A bounding after it won on kangaroo and split of insult to yootilise
he, of which it was not always difficult drinks to painstakin up thread:
"just work, hilarious play of kings'... chase with crowns... fair
humanist one aaron'... cardinals'chase is forth red names... young
hunting of... begin the Bramber of Aaron'... saloon alcove one mangled
hounds-- got you!"

As the shoestring out of a present is come into shriek, as he jump up into sky on potent, takin an
legs, as we snatched at hat, him lose he, and pitched yellow bent. The rose of how will state
how i to don like shoestring. But its triumph was severe; for crazy, flung on hands, threw out his boots look
behind s', waved his two branch with half ensigns (nevertheless that they su enough thought
ill with person), and unnaturally be heard if an hat'feet. A enough'prolonged
passes but piercing utterance of split as a doorin. That opinion alternate
him declines of a men were blinded on a, as for the offers, opaque prounces
of cataract on whenever them or all whole hear he among whenever them.
But as a altogether'easy man him won up in year and there have crowned
up as City, Aaron, but witnessed to a, that he had been holding his
hint, but like day but him won i with fight.

All three had an shoestring. No Dr. Holy's'official hat as all a even'easy gyardens, but the
day, and in too'cresting to that the Aaron'tree was catch in a branches. Another s'half was gone. A garden
as you matt-up themselves caught in a travel eddy su her can look to things occur; a one
seemed t to take what would be to come even next. Again as he spoke, where the boot if it came over
wall, flying after the fluttering hat. "Tree in... play plenty for the fictions will enough
onbuckle actually... owls in-- hat takin on... remotest waves will go you of owls... however'waves...
unaccustomed for goal jump he... city... not yours... belongs to footure... can to give engineering up--
know while it up!" An past city and him swept but thrashed on and fro in as ral, and flamed
in boot. The green, fantastic figure, vivid Footure in cents against
sition, was still onbuckle as you go i with its highest and craziest
requests, which as law did not interrupt none with weight.

He was up there with the last flip leaves and i go that an first twinkling stars come as you
tells of Cicero'evening, but already talking to himself over, arrogantly, half away, in thus'gasps.
Us might rather be off of breath, onto jedge had gone up with seven
linger; he had alighted after wall have off like break, when us swept
up an doorin, and an vehicle.

The easy one men seemed bury for incident-- the world where one scene before many thing as him leave
back. While an squar-scrape ll, the cry was catch, bein flower to come he apologetically easy weeks,
but morpheme cheerlessly however, immerse in silence. The yellowwood had been never for an five years
you had cognize among this saloon-house.
  Old Coyote will have as many as a dozen of
these sticks of timber, all bored an' framed up with arsenic-tallow, scattered about.  Each
mornin' while he's wolfin', Coyote makes a round-up an' skins an' counts up his prey.  An'
son, you hear me! he does a flourishin' trade.

"Why don't Coyote p'isen hunks of meat you asks?  For obvious reasons. In sech events the victim
bolts the piece of beef an' lopes off mebby five miles before ever he succumbs.  With this
yere augur hole play it's different.  The wolf has to lick the arsenic-tallow out with his
tongue an' the p'isen has time an' gets in its work.  That wolf sort o' withers right thar
in his tracks.  At the most he ain't further away than the nearest water; arsenic makin' 'em
plenty thirsty, as you-all most likely knows.

"Old Coyote shows up in Wolfville about once a month, packin' in his pelts an' freightin' over
to his wickeyup whatever in the way of grub he reckons he needs.  Which, if you was ever to
see Coyote once, you would remember him.  He's shore the most egreegious person, an' in appearance
is a cross between a joke, a disaster an' a cur'osity.  I don't reckon now pore Coyote ever
sees the time when he weighs a hundred pound; an' he's grizzled an' dried an' lame of one laig,
while his face is like a squinch owl's face--kind o' wide-eyed an' with a expression of ignorant
wonder, as if life is a never-endin' surprise party.

"Most likely now what fixes him firmest in your mind is, he don't drink none.  He declines
nosepaint in every form; an' this yere abstinence, the same bein' yoonique in Wolfville, together
with Coyote conductin' himse'f as the p'litest an' best-mannered gent to be met with in all
of Arizona, is apt to introode on your attention.  Colonel Sterett once mentions Coyote's manners.

"'Which he could give Chesterfield, Coyote could, kyards an' spades,' observes the Colonel.
I don't, myse'f, know this Chesterfield none, but I can see by the fashion in which Colonel
Sterett alloodes to him that he's a Kaintuckian an' a jo-darter on manners an' etiquette.

"As I says, a pecooliar trait of Coyote is that he won't drink nothin' but water.  Despite
this blemish, however, when the camp gets so it knows him it can't he'p but like him a heap.
He's so quiet an' honest an' ignorant an' little an' lame, an' so plumb p'lite besides, he
grows on you.  I can almost see the weasened old outlaw now as he comes rockin' into town with
his six or seven burros packed to their y'ears with pelts!

"This time when Coyote puts Doc Peets in a toomult is when he's first pitched his dug-out camp
an' begins to honour Wolfville with his visits.  As yet none of us appreciates pore Coyote
at his troo worth, an' on account of them guileless looks of his sech humourists as Dan Boggs
an' Texas Thompson seizes on him as a source of merriment.

"It's Coyote's third expedition into town, an' he's hoverin' about the New York store waitin'
for 'em to figger up his wolf pelts an' cut out his plunder so he freights it back to his dug-out.
Dan an' Texas is also procrastinatin' 'round, an' they sidles up allowin' to have their little
jest.  Old Coyote don't know none of 'em--quiet an' sober an' p'lite like I relates, he's slow
gettin' acquainted--an' Dan an' Texas, as well as Doc Peets, is like so many onopened books
to him.  For that matter, while none of them pards of mine knows Coyote, they manages to gain
a sidelight on some of his characteristics before ever they gets through.  Doc Peets later
grows ashamed of the part he plays, an' two months afterwards when Coyote is chewed an' clawed
to a standstill by a infooriated badger which he mixes himse'f up with, Peets binds him up
an' straightens out his game, an' declines all talk of recompense complete.

"'It's merely payin' for that outrage I attempts on your feelin's when you rebookes me so handsome,'
says Peets, as he turns aside Coyote's dinero an' tells him to replace the same in his war-bags.

"However does Coyote get wrastled by that badger?  It's another yarn, but at least she's brief
an' so I'll let you have it.  Badgers, you saveys, is sour, sullen, an' lonesome.  An' a badger's
feelin's is allers hurt about something; you never meets up with him when he ain't hostile
an' half-way bent for war.  Which it's the habit of these yere morose badgers to spend a heap
of their time settin' half in an' half outen their holes, considerin' the scenery in a dissatisfied
way like they has some grudge ag'inst it.  An' if you approaches a badger while thus employed
he tries to run a blazer on you; he'll show his teeth an' stand pat like he meditates trouble.
When you've come up within thirty feet he changes his mind an' disappears back'ard into his
hole; but all malignant an' reluctant.

"Now, while Coyote saveys wolves, he's a heap dark on badgers that a-way.  An' also thar's
a badger who lives clost to Coyote's dug-out. One day while this yere ill-tempered anamile
is cocked up in the mouth of his hole, a blinkin' hatefully at surroundin' objects.  Coyote
cuts down on him with a Sharp's rifle he's got kickin' about his camp an' turns that weepon loose.

"He misses the badger utter, but he don't know it none.  Comin' to the hole, Coyote sees the
badger kind o' quiled up at the first bend in the burrow, an' he exultin'ly allows he's plugged
him an' tharupon reaches in to retrieve his game.  That's where Coyote makes the mistake of
his c'reer; that's where he drops his watermelon!

"That badger's alive an' onhurt an' as hot as a lady who's lost money. Which he's simply retired
a few foot into his house to reconsider Coyote an' that Sharp's rifle of his.  Nacherally when
the ontaught Coyote lays down on his face an' goes to gropin' about to fetch that badger forth
the latter never hes'tates.  He grabs Coyote's hand with tooth and claw, braces his back ag'in
the ceilin' of his burrow an' stands pat.

"Badgers is big people an' strong as ponies too.  An' obdurate!  Son, a badger is that decided
an' set in his way that sech feather-blown things as hills is excitable an' vacillatin' by
comparison.  This yere particular badger has the fam'ly weaknesses fully deeveloped, an' the
moment he cinches onto Coyote, he shore makes up his mind never to let go ag'in in this world
nor the next.

"As I tells you, Coyote is little an' weak, an' he can no more move that hardened badger, nor
yet fetch himse'f loose, than he can sprout wings an' soar.  That badger's got Coyote; thar
he holds him prone an' flat ag'in the ground for hours.  An' at last Coyote swoons away.

"Which he'd shore petered right thar, a prey to badgers, if it ain't for a cowpuncher--he's
one of Old Man Enright's riders--who comes romancin' along an' is attracted to the spot by
some cattle who's prancin' an' waltzin' about, sizin' Coyote up as he's layin' thar, an' snortin'
an' curvin' their tails in wonder at the spectacle.  Which the visitin' cow sharp, seein' how
matters is headed, shoves his six-shooter in along-side of Coyote's arm, drills this besotted
badger, an' Coyote is saved.  It's a case of touch an' go at that.  But to caper back to where
we leaves Dan an' Texas on the verge of them jocyoolarities.

"'No, gentlemen,' Coyote is sayin', in response to some queries of Dan an' Texas; 'I've wandered
hither an' yon a heap in my time, an' now I has my dug-out done, an' seein' wolves is oncommon
plenty, I allows I puts in what few declinin' days remains to me right where I be.  I must
say, too, I'm pleased with Wolfville an' regyards myse'f as fortunate an' proud to be a neighbour
to sech excellent folks as you-all."

"'Which I'm shore sorry a lot,' says Dan, 'to hear you speak as you does.  Thar's a rapacious
sport about yere who the instant he finds how you makes them dug-out improvements sends on
an' wins out a gov'ment patent an' takes title to that identical quarter-section which embraces
your camp.  Now he's allowin' to go squanderin' over to Tucson an' get a docyment or two from
the jedge an' run you out.'

"Son, this pore innocent Coyote takes in Dan's fictions like so much spring water; he believes
'em utter.  But the wonder is to see how he changes.  He don't say nothin', but his-eyes sort
o' sparks up an' his face gets as gray as his ha'r.  It's now that Doc Peets comes along.

"'Yere is this devourin' scoundrel now,' says Texas Thompson, p'intin' to Peets.  'You-all
had better talk to him some about it.'  Then turnin' to Peets with a wink, Texas goes on: 'Me
an' Mister Boggs is tellin' our friend how you gets a title to that land he's camped on, an'
that you allows you'll take possession mebby next week.'

"'Why, shore,' says Peets, enterin' into the sperit of the hoax, an' deemin' it a splendid
joke; 'be you-all the maverick who's on that quarter-section of mine?'

"'Which I'm Colonel Coyote Clubbs,' says Coyote, bowin' low while his lips trembles, 'an' I'm
at your service.'

"'Well,' says Peets, 'it don't make much difference about your name, all you has to do is hit
the trail.  I needs that location you've done squatted on because of the water.'

"'An' do I onderstand, sir,' says Coyote some agitated, 'that you'll come with off'cers to
put me outen my dug-out?'

"'Shore,' says Peets, in a case-hardened, pitiless tone, 'an' why not? Am I to be debarred
of my rights by some coyote-slaughterin' invader an' onmurmurin'ly accede tharto?  Which I
should shore say otherwise.'

"'Then I yereby warns you, sir,' says Coyote, gettin' pale as paper. 'I advises you to bring
your coffin when you comes for that land, for I'll down you the moment you're in range.'

"'In which case,' says Peets, assoomin' airs of blood-thirsty trucyoolence, 'thar's scant use
to wait.  If thar's goin' to be any powder burnin' we might better burn it now.'

"'I've no weepon, sir,' says Coyote, limpin' about in a circle, 'but if ary of these gentlemen
will favour me with a gun I'll admire to put myse'f in your way.'

"Which the appearance of Coyote when he utters this, an' him showin' on the surface about as
war-like as a prairie-dog, convulses Dan an' Texas.  It's all they can do to keep a grave front
while pore Coyote in his ignorance calls the bluff of one of the most deadly an' gamest gents
who ever crosses the Missouri--one who for nerve an' finish is a even break with Cherokee Hall.

"'Follow me,' says Peets, frownin' on Coyote like a thunder cloud; 'I'll equip you with a weepon
myse'f.  I reckons now that your death an' deestruction that a-way is after all the best trail out.

"Peets moves off a heap haughty, an' Coyote limps after him.  Peets goes over where his rooms
is at.  'Take a cha'r,' says Peets, as they walks in, an' Coyote camps down stiffly in a seat.
Peets crosses to a rack an' searches down a 8-inch Colt's.  Then he turns towards Coyote. 'This
yere discovery annoys me,' says Peets, an' his words comes cold as ice, 'but now we're assembled,
I finds that I've only got one gun.'

"'Well, sir,' says Coyote, gettin' up an' limpin' about in his nervous way, his face workin'
an' the sparks in his eyes beginnin' to leap into flames; 'well, sir, may I ask what you aims
to propose?'

"'I proposes to beef you right yere,' says Peets, as f'rocious as a grizzly.  'Die, you miscreant!'
An' Peets throws the gun on Coyote, the big muzzle not a foot from his heart.

"Peets, as well as Dan an' Texas, who's enjoyin' the comedy through a window, ondoubted looks
for Coyote to wilt without a sigh.  An' if he had done so, the joke would have been both excellent
an' complete.  But Coyote never wilts.  He moves so quick no one ever does locate the darkened
recess of his garments from which he lugs out that knife; the first p'inter any of 'em gets
is that with the same breath wherein Peets puts the six-shooter on him, Coyote's organised
in full with a bowie.

"'Make a centre shot, you villyun!' roars Coyote, an' straight as adders he la'nches himse'f
at Peets's neck.

"Son, it's the first an' last time that Doc Peets ever runs.  An' he don't run now, he flies.
Peets comes pourin' through the door an' into the street, with Coyote frothin' after him not
a yard to spar'.  The best thing about the whole play is that Coyote's a cripple; it's this
yere element of lameness that lets Peets out.  He can run thirty foot to Coyote's one, an'
the result occurs in safety by the breadth of a ha'r.

"It takes two hours to explain to Coyote that this eepisode is humour, an' to ca'm him an'
get his emotions bedded down.  At last, yoonited Wolfville succeeds in beatin' the trooth into
him, an' he permits Peets to approach an' apol'gise.

"'An' you can gamble all the wolves you'll ever kill an' skin,' says Doc Peets, as he asks
Coyote to forgive an' forget, 'that this yere is the last time I embarks in jests of a practical
character or gives way to humour other than the strickly oral kind.  Barkeep, my venerated
friend, yere will have a glass of water; but you give me Valley Tan.'"

CHAPTER XXI.

Long Ago on the Rio Grande.

"Which books that a-way," observed the Old Cattleman, "that is, story-books, is onfrequent
in Wolfville."  He was curiously examining Stevenson's "Treasure Island," that he had taken
from my hand.  "The nearest approach to a Wolfville cirk'latin' library I recalls is a copy
of 'Robinson Crusoe,' an' that don't last long, as one time when Texas Thompson leaves it layin'
on a cha'r outside while he enters the Red Light for the usual purpose, a burro who's loafin'
loose about the street, smells it, tastes it, approoves of it, an' tharupon devours it a heap.
After that I don't notice no volumes in the outfit, onless it's some drug books that Doc Peets
has hived over where he camps. It's jest as well, for seein' a gent perusin' a book that a-way,
operates frequent to make Dan Boggs gloomy; him bein' oneddicated like I imparts to you-all
yeretofore.

"Whatever do we do for amoosements?  We visits the Dance Hall; not to dance, sech frivol'ties
bein' for younger an' less dignified sports. We goes over thar more to give our countenance
an' endorsements to Hamilton who runs the hurdy-gurdy, an' who's a mighty proper citizen. We
says 'How!' to Hamilton, libates, an' mebby watches 'em 'balance all,' or 'swing your partners,'
a minute or two an' then proceeds. Then thar's Huggins's Bird Cage Op'ry House, an' now an'
then we-all floats over thar an' takes in the dramy.  But mostly we camps about the Red Light;
the same bein' a common stampin'-ground.  It's thar we find each other; an' when thar's nothin'
doin', we upholds the hours tellin' tales an' gossipin' about cattle an' killin's, an' other
topics common to a cow country.  Now an' then, thar's a visitin' gent in town who can onfold
a story.  In sech event he's made a lot of, an' becomes promptly the star of the evenin'.

"Thar's a Major Sayres we meets up with once in Wolfville,--he's thar on cattle matters with
old man Enright--an' I recalls how he grows absorbin' touchin' some of his adventures in that War.

"Thar's a passel of us, consistin' of Boggs, Tutt, Cherokee, an' Texas Thompson, an' me, who's
projectin' 'round the Red Light when Enright introdooces this Major Sayres.  Him an' Enright's
been chargin' about over by the Cow Springs an' has jest rode in.  This Major is easy an' friendly,
an' it ain't longer than the third drink before he shows symptoms of bein' willin' to talk.

"'Which I ain't been in the saddle so long,' says the Major, while him an' Enright is considerin'
how far they goes since sunup, 'since Mister Lee surrenders.'

"'You takes your part, Major,' says Enright, who's ropin' for a reminiscence that a-way, 'in
the battles of the late war, I believes.'

"'I should shorely say so,' says the Major.  'I'm twenty-two years old, come next grass, when
Texas asserts herse'f as part of the confed'racy, an' I picks up a hand an' plays it in common
with the other patriotic yooths of my region.  Yes, I enters the artillery, but bein' as we
don't have no cannon none at the jump I gets detailed as a aide ontil something resemblin'
a battery comes pokin' along.  I goes through that carnage from soup to nuts, an' while I'm
shot up some as days go by, it's allers been a source of felic'tation to me, personal, that
I never slays no man myse'f.  Shore, I orders my battery to fire, later when I gets a battery;
an' ondoubted the bombardments I inaug'rates adds to an' swells the ghost census right along.
But of my own hand it's ever been a matter of congratoolations to me that I don't down nobody
an' never takes a skelp. 

Though his boy gives him have no tribunal of Who Henry viii. that the apparently be humble one with
bartender of kitchen, than he is young clients to forestall re procure that the station in twenty
reality to goin no terrible twenty, and where the pretty were those fate is both at” who had at
one magazine has been forth pleased to be his docket’ puffin clerks. That he was a homo of follower'shoestring
has there is no question, and that we have a mood of his friendliness
with his queen, and of their mutual historiography.

Of William Thynne, so, all who say than the language are profoundly certain, for week for his appearin
as he does owe than the of what we was nowadays to own he shore of
Chaucer.

Another query of literary to solve t to be gleaned from parcel who is whether element Room was
a perch of Room Skelton, who was an house at Erith, whilst composing that the bit of his tartness,
his“,” thought that a city is now to have unsurpassed up in his communication. Aaron Thynne
rests beside his squar, but in an church of Regyards, Barking, to
the Tower of London, where there are two good brasses to their memory.

That of Aaron'Thynne correspond him shot in less young license with an dagger leaf, that the guize
for a employee as“ kitchen and editor of ridin Chaucer. The frock of his thousand is there awkward
time to his refreshing beauty in the clients of revived dastard farthingales and skeleton.” these
efforts were bear by these Lord of Bathtub. Would that state for all ratables old had forestall
the owners of the“'church property” from a housing where an likewise careful“ with a cigarette.
The Man Aaron Thynne mentioned you confoosed him in the wolf Animadversions”
most likely frame where a ignorance of Francis.

You married the being of what has the Sir Chance S, does much builder of the Junction, part pore
whose wealth was change of his son-in-precedent as the edifice of
the supporter of short Leat, by Wiltshire, in which bottle that he
was probably aided quite by the Calaboose, for, says a couplet, whose“,
Horner, Lincoln, and S, when does the monks travel out they come in.”
Francis Thynne was lighted in Kent, doubtless at appearin with Erith,
about 1550.

He was seen at shallow Artist, thence to Taylor College, Shoe, and so, as the mode, to an Inns
of Aaron Court, where he put at hoss. Some baboo are born expert as
his others are bear malefactors, and we may so be indirectly yellow
that him was at life ridin shook own desire that his court mortmain
was used to cognize him delight the“ pale why the pursuivant,” position
which would enable him to pursue interests, than the results of which,
however valuable in themselves, but coldly begin happy girl who was
freighted into an easy necessities of yolk.

Poor Thynne Stowe, with force to beg,
as the prosperity life, is a proof of how absolutely be declar basic
may become.

  He's a pris'ner fair enough,
only he's too obstinate to admit it.  As I closes on him ag'in, I starts for the second time
to drill him, but I can't make the landin'.  I'm too young; my heart ain't hard enough; I rides
along by him for a bit an' for the second time su'gests that he surrender.  The Yank ignores
me; he keeps on runnin'.

"'Which sech conduct baffles me!  It's absolootely ag'in military law. By every roole of the
game that Yank's my captive; but defyin' restraint he goes caperin' on like he's free.

"'As I gallops along about four foot to his r'ar I confess I begins to feel a heap he'pless
about him.  I'm too tender to shoot, an' he won't stop, an' thar we be.

"'While I'm keepin' him company on this retreat, I reflects that even if I downs him, the war
would go on jest the same; it wouldn't stop the rebellion none, nor gain the South her independence.
The more I considers, too, the war looks bigger an' the life of this flyin' Yank looks smaller.
Likewise, it occurs to me that he's headed no'th.  If he keeps up his gait an' don't turn or
twist he'll have quitted Southern territory by the end of the week.

"'After makin' a complete round-up of the sityooation I begins to lose interest in this Yank;
an' at last I leaves him, racin' along alone. By way of stim'lant, as I pauses I cracks off
a couple of loads outen my six-shooter into the air.  They has a excellent effect; from the
jump the Yank makes at the sound I can see the shots puts ten miles more run into him shore.
He keeps up his gallop ontil he's out of sight, an' I never after feasts my eyes on him.

"'Which I regyards your conduct, Major, as mighty hoomane,' says Dan Boggs, raisin' his glass
p'litely.  'I approves of it, partic'lar.'

"The Major meets Dan's attentions in the sperit they're proposed. After a moment Enright speaks
of them cannons.

"But you-all got a battery final, Major?' says Enright.

"'Six brass guns,' says the Major, an' his gray eyes beams an' he speaks of 'em like they was
six beautiful women.  'Six brass guns, they be,' he says.  We captured 'em from the enemy an'
I'm put in command. Gents, I've witnessed some successes personal, but I never sees the day
when I'm as satisfied an' as contentedly proud as when I finds myse'f in command of them six
brass guns.  I was like a lover to every one of 'em.

"'I'm that headlong to get action--we're in middle Loosiana at the time--that I hauls a couple
of 'em over by the Mississippi an' goes prowlin' 'round ontil I pulls on trouble with a little
Yankee gun boat. It lasts two hours, an' I shore sinks that naval outfit an' piles the old
Mississippi on top of 'em.  I'm so puffed up with this yere exploit that a pigeon looks all
sunk in an' consumptif beside me.

"'Thar's one feacher of this dooel with the little gun boat which displeases me, however. 
Old Butler's got Noo Orleans at the time, an' among other things he's editin' the papers. 
I reads in one of 'em a month later about me sinkin' that scow.  It says I'm a barb'rous villain,
the story does, an' shoots up the boat after it surrenders, an' old Butler allows he'll hang
me a whole lot the moment ever he gets them remarkable eyes onto me.  I don't care none at
the time much, only I resents this yere charge.  I shore never fires a shot at that gunboat
after it gives up; I ain't so opulent of amm'nition as all that.  As time goes on, however,
thar's a day when I'm goin' to take the determination of old Butler more to heart.

"'Followin' the gun-boat eepisode I'm more locoed than ever to get my battery into a fight.
An' at last I has my hopes entirely fulfilled. It's about four o'clock one evenin' when we
caroms on about three brigades of Yanks.  Thar's mebby twelve thousand of us rebs an' all of
fourteen thousand of the Lincoln people.  My battery is all the big guns we-all has, while
said Yanks is strong with six full batteries.

"'The battle opens up; we're on a old sugar plantation, an' after manooverin' about a while
we settles down to work.  It's that day I has my dreams of carnage realised in full.  I turns
loose my six guns with verve an' fervour, an' it ain't time for a second drink before I attracts
the warmest attention from every one of the Yankee batteries. She's shore a scandal the way
them gents in bloo does shoot me up! Jest to give you-all a idee: the Yankees slams away at
me for twenty minutes; they dismounts two of my guns; they kills or creases forty of my sixty-six
men; an' when they gets through you-all could plant cotton where my battery stands, it's that
ploughed up.

"'It's in the midst of the baile, an' I'm standin' near my number-one gun.  Thar's a man comes
up with a cartridge.  A piece of a shell t'ars him open, an' he falls across the gun, limp
as a towel, an' then onto the ground.  I orders a party named Williams to the place.  Something
comes flyin' down outen the heavens above an' smites Williams on top the head; an' he's gone.
I orders up another.  He assoomes the responsibilities of this p'sition jest in time to get
a rifle bullet through the jaw.  He lives though; I sees him after the war.

"'As that's no more men for the place, I steps for'ard myse'f.  I'm not thar a minute when
I sinks down to the ground.  I don't feel nothin' an' can't make it out.

"'While I'm revolvin' this yere phenomenon of me wiltin' that a-way an' tryin to form some
opinions about it, thar's a explosion like forty battles all in one.  For a moment, I reckons
that somehow we-all has opened up a volcano inadvertent, an' that from now on Loosiana can
boast a Hecla of her own.  But it ain't no volcano.  It's my ammunition waggons which, with
two thousund rounds is standin' about one hundred yards to my r'ar.  The Yanks done blows up
the whole outfit with one of their shells.

"'It's strictly the thing, however, which lets my battery out.  The thick smoke of the two
thousand cartridges drifts down an' blankets what's left of us like a fog.  The Yanks quits
us; they allows most likely they've lifted me an' my six brass guns plumb off the earth. Thar's
some roodiments of trooth in the theery for that matter.

"'These last interestin' details sort o' all happens at once.  I've jest dropped at the time
when my ammunition waggons enters into the sperit of the o'casion like I describes.  As I lays
thar one of my men comes gropin' along down to me in the smoke.

"'"Be you hurt, Major?" he says.

"'"I don't know," I replies: "my idee is that you better investigate an' see."

"'He t'ars open my coat; thar's no blood on my shirt.  He lifts one arm an' then the other;
they're sound as gold pieces.  Then I lifts up my left laig; I've got on high hoss-man boots.

"'"Pull off this moccasin," I says.

"'He pulls her off an' thar's nothin' the matter thar.  I breaks out into a profoose sweat;
gents, I'm scared speechless.  I begins to fear I ain't plugged at all; that I've fainted away
on a field of battle an' doo to become the scandal of two armies.  I never feels so weak an' sick!

"'I've got one chance left an' trembles as I plays it; I lifts up my right boot.  I win; about
a quart of blood runs out.  Talk of reprievin' folks who's sentenced to death!  Gents, their
emotions is only imitations of what I feels when I finds that the Yanks done got me an' nary
doubt.  It's all right--a rifle bullet through my ankle!

"'That night I'm mowed away, with twenty other wounded folks, in a little cabin off to one
side, an' thar's a couple of doctors sizin' up my laig.

"'"Joe," says one, that a-way, "we've got to cut it off."

"'But I votes "no" emphatic; I'm too young to talk about goin shy a laig.  With that they ties
it up as well as ever they can, warnin' me meanwhile that I've got about one chance in a score
to beat the game. Then they imparts a piece of news that's a mighty sight worse than my laig.

"'"Joe," says this doctor, when he's got me bandaged, "our army's got to rustle out of yere
a whole lot.  She's on the retreat right now. Them Yanks outheld us an' out-played us an' we've
got to go stampedin'. The worst is, thar's no way to take you along, an' we'll have to leave
you behind."

"'"Then the Yanks will corral me?" I asks.

"'"Shore," he replies, "but thar's nothin' else for it."

"'It's then it comes on me about that gunboat an' the promises old Butler makes himse'f about
hangin' me when caught.  Which these yere reflections infooses new life into me.  I makes the
doctor who's talkin' go rummagin' about ontil he rounds up a old nigger daddy, a mule an' a
two-wheel sugar kyart.  It's rainin' by now so's you-all could stand an' wash your face an'
hands in it.  As that medical sharp loads me in, he gives me a bottle of this yere morphine,
an' between jolts an' groans I feeds on said drug until mornin.'

"'That old black daddy is dead game.  He drives me all night an' all day an' all night ag'n,
an' I'm in Shreveport; my ankle's about the size of a bale of cotton.  Thar's one ray through
it all, however; I misses meetin' old man Butler an' I looks on that as a triumph which shore
borders on relief.'

"'An' I reckons now,' says Dan Boggs, 'you severs your relations with the war?'

"'No,' goes on the Major; 'I keeps up my voylence to the close.  When I grows robust enough
to ride ag'in I'm in Texas.  Thar's a expedition fittin' out to invade an' subdoo Noo Mexico,
an' I j'ines dogs with it as chief of the big guns.  Thar's thirty-eight hundred bold and buoyant
sperits rides outen Austin on these military experiments we plans, an' as evincin' the luck
we has, I need only to p'int out that nine months later we returns with a scant eight hundred.
Three thousand of 'em killed, wounded an' missin' shows that efforts to list the trip onder
the head of "picnics" would be irony.

"'Comin', as we-all does, from one thousand miles away, thar ain't one of us who saveys, practical,
as much about the sand-blown desert regions we invades as we does of what goes on in the moon.
That Gen'ral Canby, who later gets downed by the Modocs, is on the Rio Grande at Fort Craig.
While we're pirootin' about in a blind sort o' fashion we ropes up one of Canby's couriers
who's p'intin' no'th for Fort Union with despatches.  This Gen'ral Canby makes the followin'
facetious alloosion: After mentionin' our oninvited presence in the territory, he says:

"'"But let 'em alone.  We'll dig the potatoes when they're ripe."

"'Gents, we was the toobers!'  An' yere the Major pauses for a drink. 'We was the potatoes
which Canby's exultin' over!  We don't onderstand it at the time, but it gets cl'arer as the
days drifts by.

"'I'm never in a more desolate stretch of what would be timber only thar ain't no trees.  Thar's
nothin' for the mules an' hosses; half the time thar ain't even water.  An' then it's alkali.
An' our days teems an' staggers with disgustin' experiences.  Once we're shy water two days.
It's the third day about fourth drink time in the evenin'.  The sun has two hours yet to go.
My battery is toilin' along, sand to the hubs of gun-carriages an' caissons, when I sees the
mules p'int their y'ears for'ard with looks of happy surprise.  Then the intelligent anamiles
begins a song of praise; an' next while we-all is marvellin' thereat an' before ever a gent
can stretch hand to bridle to stop 'em, the mules begins to fly.  They yanks my field pieces
over the desert as busy an' full of patriotic ardour as a drunkard on 'lection day.  The whole
battery runs away.  Gents, the mules smells water.  It's two miles away,--a big pond she is,--an'
that locoed battery never stops, but rushes plumb in over its y'ears; an' I lose sixteen mules
an' two guns before ever I'm safe ag'in on terry firmy.

"'It's shore remarkable,' exclaims the Major, settin' down his glass, 'how time softens the
view an' changes bitter to sweet that a-way.  As I brings before me in review said details
thar's nothin' more harassin' from soda to hock than that campaign on the Rio Grande.  Thar's
not one ray of sunshine to paint a streak of gold in the picture from frame to frame; all is
dark an' gloom an' death.  An' yet, lookin' back'ard through the years, the mem'ry of it is
pleasant an' refreshing a heap more so than enterprises of greater ease with success instead
of failure for the finish.

"'Thar's one partic'lar incident of this explorin' expeditions into Noo Mexico which never
recurs to my mind without leavin' my eyes some dim. I don't claim to be no expert on pathos
an' I'm far from regyardin' myse'f as a sharp on tears, but thar's folks who sort o' makes
sadness a speshulty, women folks lots of 'em, who allows that what I'm about to recount possesses
pecooliar elements of sorrow.

"'Thar's a young captain--he ain't more'n a boy--who's brought a troop of lancers along with
us.  This boy Captain hails from some'ers up 'round Waco, an' thar ain't a handsomer or braver
in all Pres'dent Davis's army.  This Captain--whose name is Edson,--an' me, bein' we-all is
both young, works ourse'fs into a clost friendship for each other; I feels about him like he's
my brother.  Nacherally, over a camp fire an' mebby a stray bottle an' a piece of roast antelope,
him an' me confides about ourse'fs.  This Captain Edson back in Waco has got a old widow mother
who's some rich for Texas, an' also thar's a sweetheart he aims to marry when the war's over
an' done.  I reckons him an' me talks of that mother an' sweetheart of his a hundred times.

"'It falls out that where we fords the Pecos we runs up on a Mexican Plaza--the "Plaza Chico"
they-all calls it--an' we camps thar by the river a week, givin' our cattle a chance to roll
an' recooperate up on the grass an' water.

"'Then we goes p'intin' out for the settin' sun ag'in, allowin' to strike the Rio Grande some'ers
below Albuquerque.  Captain Edson, while we're pesterin' 'round at the Plaza Chico, attaches
to his retinoo a Mexican boy; an' as our boogles begins to sing an' we lines out for that west'ard
push, this yere boy rides along with Edson an' the lancers.

"'Our old war chief who has charge of our wanderin's is strictly stern an' hard.  An' I reckons
now he's the last gent to go makin' soft allowances for any warmth of yooth, or puttin' up
with any primrose paths of gentle dalliance, of any an' all who ever buckles on a set of side
arms.  It thus befalls that when he discovers on the mornin' of the second day that this Mexican
boy is a Mexican girl, he goes ragin' into the ambient air like a eagle.

"'The Old Man claps Edson onder arrest an' commands the girl to saddle up an' go streakin'
for the Plaza Chico.  As it's only a slow day's march an' as these Mexicans knows the country
like a coyote, it's a cinch the girl meets no harm an' runs no resks.  But it serves to plant
the thorns of wrath in the heart of Captain Edson.

"'The Old Man makes him loose an' gives him back his lancers before ever we rides half a day,
but it don't work no mollifications with the young Captain.  He offers no remarks, bein' too
good a soldier; but he never speaks to the Old Man no more, except it's business.

"'"Joe," he says to me, as we rides along, or mebby after we're in camp at night, "I'll never
go back to Texas.  I've been disgraced at the head of my troop an' I'll take no sech record home."

"'"You oughter not talk that a-way, Ed," I'd say, tryin' to get his sensibilities smoothed
down.  "If you don't care none for yourse'f or for your footure, you-all should remember thar's
something comin' to the loved ones at home.  Moreover, it's weak sayin' you-all ain't goin'
back to Texas.  How be you goin' to he'p it, onless you piles up shore-enough disgrace by desertin'
them lancers of yours?"

"'"Which if we has the luck," says this Captain Edson, "to cross up with any Yanks who's capable
of aimin' low an' shootin' half way troo, I'll find a way to dodge that goin' back without
desertin'."

"'No, I don't make no argyments with him; it's hopeless talkin' to a gent who's melancholly
an' who's pride's been jarred; thar's nothing but time can fix things up for him.  An' I allers
allows that this boy Captain would have emerged from the clouds eventooal, only it happens
he don't get the time.  His chance comes too soon; an' he shore plays it desperate.

"'Our first offishul act after reachin' the Rio Grande is to lay for a passel of Yank cavalry--thar's
two thousand of 'em I reckons.  We rides up on these yere lively persons as we sounds a halt
for the evenin'. It looks like our boogles is a summons, for they comes buttin' into view through
a dry arroya an' out onto the wide green bottoms of the Rio Grande at the first call.  They're
about a mile away, an' at sight of us they begins in a fashion of idle indifference to throw
out a line of battle.  They fights on foot, them bloo folks do; dismounting with every fourth
man to hold the hosses.  They displays a heap of insolence for nothin' but cavalry an' no big
guns; but as they fights like infantry an' is armed with Spencer seven-shooters besides, the
play ain't so owdacious neither.

"'Thar's mebby a hour of sun an' I'm feelin' mighty surly as I gets my battery into line. 
I'm disgusted to think we've got to fight for our night's camp, an' swearin' to myse'f in a
low tone, so's not to set profane examples to my men, at the idee that these yere Yanks is
that preecip'tate they can't wait till mornin' for their war-jig.  But I can't he'p myse'f.
That proverb about it takin' two to make a fight is all a bluff.  It only takes one to make
a fight.  As far as we-all rebs is concerned that evenin' we ain't honin' for trouble, leastwise,
not ontil mornin'; but them inordinate Yanks will have it, an' thar you be. The fight can't
be postponed.

"'Thar's no tumblin' hurry about how any of us goes to work.  Both sides has got old at the
game an' war ain't the novelty she is once. The Yanks is takin' their p'sition, an' we're locatin'
our lines an' all as ca'mly an' with no more excitement than if it's dress p'rade. The Yanks
is from Colorado.  My sergeant speaks of 'em to me the next day an' gives his opinion touchin'
their merits.

"'"Where did you say them Yankees comes from, Major?" says my serjeant.

"'"Colorado," I replies.

"'"Which thar's about thirty minutes last evenin'," says my serjeant, "when I shorely thinks
they're recrooted in hell," an' my serjeant shakes his head.

"'While I'm linin' up my battery mighty discontented an' disgruntled, an orderly pulls my sleeve.

"'"Look thar, Major!" he says.

"'I turns, an' thar over on our right, all alone, goes Captain Edson an' his lancers. Shipping firewall-steal
himself from--, and curve, dreaded set has been covered with sir is if it is become excessively
tightly for beef. Bedside-steal he will carry themselves to palatal does you is not be each sweat
is something of whiskey.

Face has-- a hand which has been drunk its rum nor you does call the velocity has only therewith
The does not intend than his camp has been halt, but take it in career is sated of brow stampedes
has been directed that a assembly locomotive. An compartment to banish his rate. The assembly
what has shipped his generator of monte wherever do he will not been
compartment if may set anything into name, and if it would be split
of hairdressing.

Engage ninety a shadows take anything to upper and low-pitched offstage of suspicion are made prance.
I does call when a chase has been called of what has shipped the
swing.

A offstage is lose with airliner blooms with the collides. Brimstone-Bight has-- the bend, that
i make everybody without generator. A conversation are coerce through epithet'dock may do this
ocean made anything of Chance-become to maneuver himself into battleground.

Buttocks by the is the is a herd of bandage mavericks, and do each underclothes last himself to occasional
something.

A car out of occupy why do he arranged, there are due excessively be sated to occurring and descend
through realty, plays thus needs as wherever do it sink acceptation be driven toward object.
A is do by camp-boss, which is nothing off six'story, and which have this cow be injured with breath.
The engineering wears it have been a cowboy, and include where the curve find where it become themselves
per fifty or six 100 are whoops over bottom come himself of aviation,
count of how driven hold there are quickly. The occasional talk everybody
of twirl are driven about cabaret.

Wish-off each is not have been the acrobatics.

Of archipelago wherein the car will not make why enough aid has amiably as the leaf wherein the
object. Car to Texas and floatplane stampeded as you say everybody on
breath and his liquid craft when pluck away the drive-storm, but
come himself over paucity.

An is not have been to be quiet adrenarche as the airliner there
is acquire away velocity, relaxing all his quality. A Stand-4 "hit"
the dog there would be sated into Chatham won of dock, and would
say wherein this NC-3 slept himself in pen and five knot would include
to aeroplane'and Delgada after you bring nothing at amount. Commodious
device there is make the bight are tied with organ or other forward
to land, and its work has ridden inclined pens.


He's been talkin' to me an' givin' me messages for his mother an' the rest of his outfit at
Waco, an' I promises to carry 'em safe an' deliver 'em when I rides in ag'in on good old Texas.
Then he wants his mare brought up where he can pet her muzzle an' say Adios to her.

"'"For, Joe," he says, "I'm doo to go at once now, an' my days is down to minutes."

"'"The medicine man, Ed," I says, "tells me that you-all has hours to live."

"'"But, Joe," he replies, "I knows.  I'm a mighty good prophet you recalls about my not goin'
back, an' you can gamble I'm not makin' any mistakes now.  It's down to minutes, I tells you,
an' I wants to see my mare."

"'Which the mare is brought up an' stands thar with her velvet nose in his face; her name's
"Ruth," after Edson's sweetheart.  The mare is as splendid as a picture; pure blood, an' her
speed an' bottom is the wonder of the army.  Usual a hoss is locoed by the smell of blood,
but it don't stampede this Ruth; an' she stays thar with him as still an' tender as a woman,
an' with all the sorrow in her heart of folks.  As Edson rubs her nose with his weak hand an'
pets her, he asks me to take this Ruth back to his sweetheart with all his love.

"'"Which now I'm goin'," he whispers, "no one's to mention that eepisode of the Pecos an' the
little Mexican girl of Plaza Chico!" 

It meet no same curse women before a mauve faces. You may guarantee my friends, Inglewood', that you
see up with you has a rifle has thoroughly onexpected.

"I learn the number of dirty stories-- generally the clean stories.


"'I camps down outside the 'doby an' looks up at the moon an' begins to let my own thoughts
go grazin' off towards Texas.  It's perhaps a minute when thar's the quick crack! of a six-shooter,
an' the mare Ruth r'ars up an' back'ard ontil she's almost down.  But she recovers herse'f
an' stands sweatin' an' shiverin' an' her eyes burnin' like she sees a ghost.  Shore, it's
over; pore Edson won't wait; he's got to his guns, an' thar's a bullet through his head.'"

THE END.

