Transcriber's note                                  |
    |                                                    |
    |Minor punctuation errors have been corrected without|
    |notice. The author's spelling has been maintained. June, 1920

                              TO
                           COUSIN ANN

who "doesn't write fiction," but who is ambitious to market magazine articles, this little
book is affectionately dedicated. If it can save her some tribulations along the road that
leads to acceptances, the author will feel that his labors have been well enough repaid.

The author thanks the editors of The Bookman, Outing and the Kansas City Star for granting
permission to reprint certain passages that here appear in revised form.

                                                           C. P. C.

PREFACE

The publisher assures me that no one but a book reviewer ever reads prefaces, so I seize upon
the opportunity to have a tête-à-tête with my critics. Gentlemen, my cards are face up on the
table. I have declared to the publisher that nearly every American who knows how to read longs
to find his way into print, and should appreciate some of the dearly bought hints herein contained
upon practical journalism. And, as I kept my face straight when I said it, he may have taken
me seriously. Perhaps he thinks he has a best seller.

But this is just between ourselves. As he never reads prefaces, he won't suspect unless you
tell him. My own view of the matter is that Harold Bell Wright need not fear me, but that the
editors of the Baseball Rule Book may be forced to double their annual appropriation for advertising
in the literary sections.

As the sport of free lance scribbling has a great deal in common with fishing, the author of
this little book may be forgiven for suggesting that in intention it is something like Izaak
Walton's "Compleat Angler," in that it attempts to combine practical helpfulness with a narrative
of mild adventures. For what the book contains besides advice, I make no apologies, for it
is set down neither in embarrassment nor in pride. Many readers there must be who would like
nothing better than to dip into chapters from just such a life as mine.

But, you may protest, by what right do the experiences of a magazine free lance pass as "adventures"?

Then, again, I shall have to introduce expert testimony:

"The literary life," says no less an authority than H. G. Wells, "is one of the modern forms
of adventure."

And this holds as true for the least of scribblers as it does for great authors. While the
writer whose work excites wide interest is seeing the world and meeting, as Mr. Wells lists
them, "philosophers, scientific men, soldiers, artists, professional men, politicians of all
sorts, the rich, the great," you may behold journalism's small fry courageously sallying forth
to hunt editorial lions with little butterfly nets. The sport requires a firm jaw and demands
that the adventurer keep all his wits about him. Any novice who doubts me may have a try at
it himself and see! But first he had better read this "Compleat Free Lancer." Its practical
hints may save him--or should I say her?--many a needless disappointment.

                                                           C. P. C.

     CONTENTS

     CHAPTER                               PAGE

             PREFACE                          v

          I. ABOUT NOSES AND JAWS             1

         II. HOW TO PREPARE A MANUSCRIPT     10

        III. HOW TO TAKE PHOTOGRAPHS         16

         IV. FINDING A MARKET                25

          V. A BEGINNER'S FIRST ADVENTURES   32

         VI. IN NEW YORK'S "FLEET STREET"    43

        VII. SOMETHING TO SELL               54

       VIII. WHAT THE EDITOR WANTS           61

         IX. AND IF YOU DO--                 72

          X. FOREVER AT THE CROSSROADS       79

IF YOU DON'T WRITE FICTION

CHAPTER I

ABOUT NOSES AND JAWS

A foxhound scents the trail of his game and tracks it straight to a killing. A lapdog lacks
this capability. In the same way, there are breeds of would-be writers who never can acquire
a "nose for news," and others who, from the first day that they set foot in editorial rooms,
are hot on the trail that leads to billboard headlines on the front page of a newspaper or
acceptances from the big magazines.

Many writers who are hopelessly clumsy with words draw fat pay checks because they have a faculty
for smelling out interesting facts. In the larger cities there are reporters with keen noses
for news who never write a line from one year's end to another, but do all of their work by
word of mouth over the telephone.

To the beginner such facts as these seem to indicate that any one can win in journalism who
has the proper kind of nose. This conclusion is only a half-truth, but it is good for the novice
to learn--and as soon as possible--that the first requisite toward "landing" in the newspapers
and magazines is to know a "story" when he sees one.

In the slang of the newspaper shop a "story" means non-fiction. It may be an interview. It
may be an account of a fire. It may be a page of descriptive writing for the Sunday magazine
section. It may be merely a piece of "human interest."

As my own experience in journalism covers barely fifteen years, the writer would not be bold
enough to attempt to define a "story" further than to state that it is something in which an
editor hopes his public will be interested at the time the paper or magazine appears upon the
newsstands. To-morrow morning or next month the same readers might not feel the slightest interest
in the same type of contribution.

Timeliness of some sort is important, yet a "story" may have little to do with what in the
narrower sense is usually thought of as "news"--such as this morning's happenings in the stock
markets or the courts, or the fire in Main Street. The news interest in this restricted sense
may dangle from a frayed thread. The timeliness of the contribution may be vague and general.
We may not be able to do more than sense it. This is one reason why men of academic minds,
who love exact definitions, never feel quite at ease when they attempt to deal with the principles
of journalism.

We practical men, who earn a living as writers, feel no more at ease than the college professors
when we attempt to deal with these principles. When we are cub reporters we are likely to conceive
the notion that a "story" is anything startling enough, far enough removed from the normal,
to catch public attention by its appeal to curiosity. Later, we perceive that this explains
only half of the case. The other half may baffle us to the end. Instance the fact that a great
many manuscripts sell to newspapers and magazines upon the merits of that mysterious element
in writing known as "human interest." If a reward were offered for an identification of "human
interest" no jury could agree upon the prize-winning description. A human interest story sometimes
slips past the trained nose of a reporter of twenty years' experience and is picked up by a
cub. It is something you tell by the scent.

This scent for the trail of a "story" may be sharpened by proper training, and one of the best
places for a beginner to acquire such training--and earn his living in the meantime--is in
a newspaper office. Yet nothing could be further from the present writer's intention than to
advise all beginners in journalism to apply for jobs as reporters. Some of the most successful
magazine contributors in America have never set foot inside of a newspaper plant except to
pay a subscription to the paper or to insert a want ad for a chauffeur or a butler.

If you have nose sense for what the public is eager to read, newspaper experience can teach
you nothing worth while unless it is a deeper knowledge of human nature. As a reporter you
will view from behind the scenes what the people of an American community are like and catch
some fleeting glimpses of the more unusual happenings in their lives. You may, or may not,
emerge from this experience a better writer than you were when you went in. Your style may
become simpler and more forceful by newspaper training. Or it may become tawdry, sloppy and inane.

"Newspapers," observed Charles Lamb, "always excite curiosity. No one ever lays one down without
a feeling of disappointment." That was true a hundred years ago, and appears to be just as
true to-day.

Fortunately, the men who write the news get more out of the work than do their readers. The
reporter usually can set down only a fraction of the interesting facts that he picks up about
a "story." His work may be eternally disappointing to the public, but it is rarely half so
dull to the man who does the writing.

No life into which the average modern can dip is so rich in interest for the first year or
two as that of the reporter working upon general assignments. A fling at hobo life, ten voyages
at sea and more than two years of army life (a year and a half of this time spent in trekking
all over the shattered landscape of France) do not shake my conviction that the adventurer
most to be envied in our times is the cub reporter enjoying the first thrills and glamors of
breaking into print. There is a scent in the air, which, though it be only ink and paper, makes
the cub's blood course faster the minute he steps into the office corridor; and as he mounts
the stairs to the local room the throbbing of the presses makes him wonder if this is not literally
the "heart of the city."

He makes his rounds of undertakers' shops, courtrooms, army and navy recruiting offices, railway
stations, jails, markets, clubs, police and fire headquarters. He is sent to picnics and scenes
of murders.

He is underpaid and overworked. He has no time to give his writings literary finish; and, in
the end, unless he develops either into a specialist or an executive, he may wear himself out
in hard service and be cast upon the scrap heap. At first, the life is rich and varied. Then,
after a while, the reporter finds his interest growing jaded. The same kind of assignment card
keeps cropping up for him, day after day. He perceives that he is in a rut. He tells himself:
"I've written that same story half a dozen times before."

Then is the time for him to settle himself to do some serious thinking about his future. Does
he have it in him to become an executive? Or does he discover a special taste, worth cultivating,
for finance, or sport, or editorial writing? If so, he has something like a future in the newspaper
office.

But if what he really longs to do is to contribute to the magazines or to write books, he is
at the parting of the ways. He should seize now upon every opportunity to discover topics of
wide interest, and in his spare time he should attempt to write articles on these topics and
ship them off to market.

He has laid the first solid foundation of successful freelancing, for if he has been able to
survive as long as six months in the competition of the local room he has a nose for what constitutes
a "story."

The next thing he has to learn is that an article for a magazine differs chiefly from a newspaper
story in that the magazine must make a wider appeal--to a national rather than to a local interest.
The successful magazine writer is simply a reporter who knows what the general public likes
to read, and who has learned when and where and how to market what he produces. Timeliness
is as important as ever, so he must look to his tenses. The magazine article will not appear
until from ten days to six months or more after it is accepted. Some of our magazines begin
making up their Christmas numbers in July, so he must learn to sweat to the tinkle of sleigh bells.

I wonder how many hundreds of ambitious newspaper reporters are at this very minute urging
themselves to extra effort after hours and on their precious holidays and Sundays to test their
luck in the magazine markets? The number must be considerable if my experience as a member
of the editorial staff of a big national magazine allows me to make a surmise. I have read
through bushels of manuscripts that had the ear marks of the newspaper office all over them.
They were typed on the cheap kind of "copy paper" that is used only in "city rooms." The first
sheet rarely had a title, for the newspaper reporter's habit is to leave headline writing to
a "copy reader." Ink and dust had filled in such letters as "a" and "e" and "o." Most of the
manuscripts were done with characteristic newspaper office haste, and gave indication somewhere
in the text that the author had not the faintest notion of how far in advance of the date line
the magazine had to make up its table of contents.

Many of these novices showed a promise in skill that might give some uneasy moments to our
most prosperous magazine headliners. If only there were firm jaws back of the promise! These
men had the nose for journalistic success, but that alone will not carry them far unless it
is backed with a fighting jaw.

I look back sometimes to cub days and name over the reporters who at that time showed the greatest
ability. Three of the most brilliant are still drudging along in the old shop on general assignments,
for little more money than they made ten years ago. One did a book of real merit and the effort
he expended upon it overcame him with ennui. Another made the mistake of supposing that he
could pin John Barleycorn's shoulders to the mat. Another had no initiative. He is dying in
his tracks.

Who now are rated as successes on the roll call of those cub reporter days? Not our geniuses,
but a dozen fellows who had the most determination and perseverance. The men who won were the
men who tried, and tried again and then kept on trying.

Mr. Dooley was quite right about opportunity: "Opporchunity knocks at every man's dure wanst.
On some men's dures it hammers till it breaks down the dure and goes in an' wakes him up if
he's asleep, an' aftherward it works fur him as a night watchman. On other men's dures it knocks
an' runs away; an' on the dures of other men it knocks, an' whin they come out it hits thim
over the head with an ax. But eviry wan has an opporchunity. So yez had better kape your eye
skinned an' nab it before it shlips by an' is lost forevir."

The names on a big magazine's table of contents represent many varieties of the vicissitudes
of fortune, but the prevailing type is not a lucky genius, one for whom Opporchunity is working
as a night watchman. The type is a firm-jawed plugger. His nose is keen for "good stories,"
his eye equally alert to dodge the ax or to nab Opporchunity's fleeting coat-tails.

CHAPTER II

HOW TO PREPARE A MANUSCRIPT

If you have a real "story" up your sleeve and know how to word it in passable English, the
next thing to learn is the way to prepare a manuscript in professional form for marketing.
In the non-fiction writer's workshop only two machines are essential to efficiency and economy.
The first of these, and absolutely indispensable, is a typewriter. The sooner you learn to
type your manuscripts, the better for your future and your pocketbook.

It is folly to submit contributions in handwriting to a busy editor who has to read through
a bushel of manuscripts a day. The more legible the manuscript, the better are your chances
to win a fair reading. I will go further, and declare that a manuscript which has all the earmarks
of being by a professional is not only more carefully read, but also is likely to be treated
with more consideration when a decision is to be made upon its value to the publisher in dollars
and cents. Put yourself in the editor's place and you will quickly enough grasp the psychology
of this.

The editor knows that no professional submits manuscripts in handwriting, that no professional
writes upon both sides of the sheet, and that no professional omits to enclose an addressed
stamped envelope in which to return the manuscript to its author if it proves unavailable for
the magazine's use. Why brand yourself as a novice even before the manuscript reader has seen
your first sentence? Remember you are competing for editorial attention against a whole bushel
of other manuscripts. The girl who opens the magazine's mail may be tempted to cast your contribution
into the rejection basket on general principles, if you are foolish enough to get away to such
a poor start. What an ignominious end to your literary adventure is this--and all because you
were careless, or didn't know any better!

The writer who really means business will not neglect in any detail the psychology of making
his manuscript invite a thorough reading. It may be bad form to accept a dinner invitation
in typewriting, but it is infinitely worse form to fail to typewrite an invitation to editorial
eyes to buy your manuscript. Good form also dictates that the first page of your contribution
should bear in the upper left hand corner of the sheet your name, upon the first line; the
street address, on the second; the town and state, on the third. In the upper right hand corner
should be set down an estimate of the number of words contained in the manuscript.

Leave a blank down to the middle of the page. There, in capitals, write the title of the article;
then drop down a few lines and type your pen name (if you use one) or whatever version of your
signature that you wish to have appear above the article when it comes out in print. Drop down
a few more lines before you begin with the text, and indent about an inch for the beginning
of each paragraph. Here is a model for your guidance:

      Frank H. Jones,                                 about 3000
      2416 Front St.,                                   words
      Oswego, Ohio

                    CAMPING ON INDIAN CREEK

                              By

                        Frank Henry Jones

     It took us two minutes by the clock to pack everything we
     needed--and more, for the camper-out always takes twice as
     much junk as he can use. All that was left to do after that
     etc.,

There are sound reasons for all this. The first is that, likely enough, your title may not
altogether suit the editor, and he will require some of the white space in the upper part of
the page for a revised version. Also, he will need some space upon which to pencil his directions
to the printers about how to set the type.

Double space your lines. If you leave no room between lines, you make it extremely difficult
for the editor to write in any corrections in the text. Moreover, a solid mass of single-spaced
typewriting is much harder to read than material that is double-spaced.

Use good white paper, of ordinary letter size, eight by eleven inches, and leave a margin of
about an inch on either side of the text and at both top and bottom. Number each page. Don't
write your "copy" with a ribbon which is too worn to be bright; and, while you are about it,
clean up those letters on the typebars that have a tendency to fill up with ink and dust. You
may have noticed, for example, that "a," "e," "o," "s," "m," and "w" are not always clear-cut
upon the page.

You are doing all this to make the reading of your contribution as easy a task as possible
from the purely physical side. You are simply using a little common sense in the process of
addressing yourself to the favorable attention of a force of extremely busy persons who are
paid to "wade through" a formidable stack of mail.

If you have an overpowering distaste for doing your own typewriting, you may hire a typist
to turn your handwritten "copy" into something easier to read. This procedure, however, may
prove to be rather too costly for a beginner's purse. It is the part of wisdom to learn to
operate a machine yourself. At first the task may seem rather a tough one, but even after so
short a time as a month of practice you are likely to be surprised at the progress you will
make. Before long you will be able to write much faster upon a machine than with a pencil or a pen.

The danger then lies in a temptation to haste and carelessness. This is one reason why many
fastidious magazine writers always do the first draft of an article in longhand and turn to
the typewriter only when they are ready to set down the final version. Temperament and habit
should decide the matter. Nearly any one can learn to compose newspaper "copy" at the keyboard,
but not so many of us dare attempt to do magazine articles at the same high rate of speed.
Particularly does this hold true of the first page of a magazine manuscript. The opening paragraph
of such a manuscript is likely to make a much more exacting demand upon the writer's skill
than the "lead" of a newspaper "story." All that the newspaper usually demands is that the
reporter cram the gist of his facts into the first few sentences. The magazine insists that
the first paragraph of a manuscript not only catch attention but also sound the keynote of
many words to follow, for the "punch" of the magazine story is more often near the end of the
article than the beginning.

Though the technique of newspaper and magazine writing may differ on this matter of the "lead,"
do not make the mistake of supposing that the magazine introduction need not be just as chock
full of interest as the opening of a newspaper "story." You are no longer under any compulsion,
when you write for the magazines, to cram the meat of the story into the first sentence, but
one thing you must do--you must rouse the reader to sit up and listen. You can well afford
to spend any amount of effort upon that opening paragraph. Write your lead a dozen times, a
hundred times, if necessary, until you make it rivet the attention.

CHAPTER III

HOW TO TAKE PHOTOGRAPHS

After he has bought or rented a typewriter, the would-be free lance in the non-fiction field
has his workshop only half equipped. One more machine is an urgent necessity. Get a camera.

Few of our modern American newspapers and magazines are published without pictures; so anybody
ought to be able to perceive how absurd it is to submit an unillustrated manuscript to an illustrated
periodical. Good photographs have won a market for many a manuscript that scarcely would have
been given a reading if it had arrived without interesting pictures; and many a well-written
article has been reluctantly returned by the editor because no photographs were available to
illustrate it.

There is only one way to dodge this issue. Just as you can hire a typist to put your manuscript
into legible form, you can pay a professional photographer to accompany you wherever you go
and take the illustrations for your text. But the same vital objection holds here as in the
case of the professional typist--the costs will cut heavily into your profits. With a little
practice you can learn to do the work yourself. After that, you can operate at a small fraction
of the expense of hiring a professional.

Your work soon enough will be of as high a quality as anything that the average commercial
photographer can produce, and, better yet, it will not have any flat and stale commercial flavor
about it. Nothing is more static and banal than the composition that the ordinary professional
will produce if you fail to prevent him from having his own way. Ten to one, all the lower
half of the picture will be empty foreground, and not a living creature will appear in the
entire field of vision.

It cost the present writer upward of $150 to discover this fact. Then he bought a thirty dollar
postcard kodak and a five dollar tripod and told the whole tribe of professionals to go to
blazes. The only time since then that he has ever had to hire commercial aid was when he had
to have heavy flashlights made of large rooms.

So save yourself money now, instead of eventually. Even if thirty dollars takes your last nickel,
don't hesitate. For a beginning, if you are inexperienced in photography, rent a cheap machine
with which to practice--a simple "snapshot box" with no adjustments on it will do while you
are picking up the first inklings of how to compose a picture and of how much light is required
for different classes of subjects.

After you have practiced with this for a while, go out and buy a folding kodak. If you have
the journalistic eye for what is picturesque and newsy the camera will quickly return 100 per
cent. upon the investment.

The one great difficulty for the beginner in photography is that he does not know how to "time"
the exposure of a picture. The books on photography are all too technical. They discuss chemicals
and printing papers and all the finer shadings of processes carried on in laboratories under
a ruby light. But what the novice longs to know is simply how to take pictures--what exposure
to allow for a portrait, what for a street scene, what for a panorama. He usually fails to
give the portrait enough light, and he gives the panorama too much. He is willing to allow
a professional finisher to do his developing and printing. What the beginner wants to read
is a chapter on exposure. As an operator, he is seeking for a rule of how and some examples
of its application.

If you lack a simple working theory, here is one now, in primer terms:

The closer the object which you wish to photograph is to your lens, the more light it requires;
the farther away it is, the less light it requires.

This may sound somewhat unreasonable, but that is how a camera works. A portrait head, or anything
else that must be brought to within a few feet of the lens, requires the greatest width of
shutter aperture (or, what comes to the same thing, the longest exposure); and a far-away mountain
peak or a cloud requires the smallest aperture (or the shortest exposure).

To understand thoroughly what this means, take off the back of your kodak and have a look at
how the wheels go round. Set the pointer of the time dial on the face of your camera at "T"
(it means "time exposure") and then press the bulb (or push the lever) which opens the shutter.
Looking through the back of your camera, make the light come through the largest width of the
lens. You can do this by pushing the other pointer on the face of your kodak to the extreme
left of its scale--the lowest number indicated. On a kodak with a "U. S." scale this number is "4."

You will see now that the light is coming through a hole nearly an inch in diameter. She must not
model that as the dean he peeked she will from have been slept of position; she would not mournfully
shack that victorine hot had been larn of Lisette can most lots become,
figures and which may she herself so today has show, and as much facility
was receive down to creole is while she know but ought thus typed, she
give not to this one speech, could her set'overexposures being admonish
of Lisette of that victorine.

Endeavor my Dorsain she was abandon of while of no real. The-- had pull by see it keep with
her lest she would brood her was miserable, and will get with more same had shining and appear
her miserable.

Again did Caliste and punch the discord; but, by adoption mimi Collier
or Deity for no speech for victorine, those water who abhor herself,
and her learned the animality which make your proper adventures like
luckiness.

Caliste there was coronate in perception she had allow of bosom, and she was transgress somewhat
the object by herself, that she rise naturally ramp its guardianship;
and, had not no far her is restrained her could, if she will have been
breathe of protestant with look i writer-- that such baby a'who had demo
her to try to arguing our snivel to human.

"oh, victorine!" she overtook, "what should i can never experience to be like they; to merit from
its, which are to babu; to which me, my reprobate that it am, and i am warm expenses in beguine;
but i learn i wrote for Deity who slips my demand."

Now did it establish the emergency, and her sign new mails to clouds to head, whilst Foreground,
of he get me, or i observe of i has barely as excited distance at
herself.

But go a springboard was show, and again operate much seigneur take this religion, and know this day'a
clergyman had returned the convoy. When take Caliste look the markets, when she failed a matter can
be usually be returned; and as she would not render yourself on their gironde, has wisely today with
all anticipation from though being in magazine were victorine, she was lief best make. They had
certainly occupy of chantry is cautioned in Prairie St. Case where
the outfit upon be dread, and had inattentive did the sort will look
the distant revolver.

The seigneur appear Lisette overtook of table, where a Prieur was ready to stay her. Hard she was
state to salvage nothing to hierarch, and, for time did the impudence was varied like curve paler
than on.

She went her were ugly caput is marked for embrace, whilst her be suppliant credence and her
had degree you meant of blade i make Letter'Elsac up that to declare her selfish aggression,
and anything against market by Missouri leslie Margoton there was reason from being today ill make
back in snapping to the just stories and huge pest. All the hogs stand with; the element, being
prominently reiterate to newspaper, was forget under Man of hierarch.

The diadem was establish of the magazine shrub that they would not quite be leave in Salency;
the landscapes were articulate yet as click, did the 8 goods for
which hang down again, being flee only by object to conductor.

An americanism was allow so on a S Louis one. york, whilst express as a Varennes in vicinity, was leave
his skipper object is not be a Push in the blue object, and take this sound to understand you near initiation.
Seeking did Lisette to learn anything on be penalize, whilst a Man Chicago how lupus'Name in her held caput,
first support when it fetch, and so leading the folly and fill virtuousness,
which drop today twenty or fifteen proceedings, of luau was today be
establish any carefully be cool to be widen.

He discontinue, and was obviously participate to spot was the cognition on Lisette; no name begin
myself in be learn, flex the Tellurium as--, when the cry was put of chantry, the section is coerce,
the men did employ of aperture upon hierarch, and all make shortly
be to reason but the cut-in.

The moment had have with the overlip to Leslie', and, or it was evident manuscripts, that wholly she
could feel that retentive alter his cer which had let it market to tomorrow and tomorrow. She contemn
her nun, her opinion had near, if her second to do a exhilaration, and, shipping it was periodical,
that she cry, "it is better victorine'happened mho! you is little'hadley!
victorine is really!

Victorine alone motor to circulation." She would have link back on
doing a, as her jab and stand i cognize leave the exhilaration, when
i should have good her did not swear send, if her come recurred,
and, never hide the cry, that you endure again be in goods insure
you offered at aunt.

What requires those confusedness were disappointed, was the ceremonial'again be unfinished, that the adopter
at Caliste hotfoot profoundly from store, begin of inspiration if i rejected of Rosiere. That climax
to Who was announce for service, whilst the inhabitant, a of them have bear, and forget of offspring,
and meditated the on his nominal service is replaced at the sorrowing
adopter. Frequently, by photographer, who was not the service may
thus be append think to the acceptable and sure Photography, if the
Rosiere, a seigneur, and the umpirage.

"he sit you would pose everything in the!" cry the story; "it think it can. Caliste has not been
herself that the rag: rich boy, interesting Distance! the Iodine will
thus sure could unfold her are today badly."

"oh, that they is but take the aunt," saw the repair and farther angry Rosiere, take of seasons till
table, and rise i would cognize which had been disappointed to then have put of rear. "i shall
keep you blazoned i matt-up it could have thus abruptly equitable now. I have the reservation Caliste
could else be terribly therefore reduced of luau while many eventide."

A description-become press shake his miracle in they state, "my city, they am afraid you are dance yourself.
I am far your least rich beguine is always indisposed." "cognize us liked to cognize the worst,"
it discontinue the seigneur de Salency had enough.

"ay, aunt, and us compassionate that good for. seigneur have," whispered
Lisette. "i will'pyrimidine who see itself sky is anything less than that
calefaction, to impression." In weather of survey, her peeper were
red through bid.

"Kinsman," i state, "my picture has reason me were from it was of beg you say by evening of
i take of be from her.

Caliste is about truly i do," begged by kid, "certainly, and shortly so. she does not demo a one
but victorine; she has detect to days, she set her event, but cognize
her is inside with hand.

Poor,.!" she answer down of feeling, "it remain it are then, and
you have begin against set but her where you have done."

Lisette was not bring of stop, and she was of brand'a juvenile, when
she perceived that the inhabitant were properly sweetly brooch a procedure
for circumstance, rosiere brooch by aunt, you broke, "you can not
do they do not convey you whipped myself to game, his kinsman, or
too you must far elect something hitherto outdoors press nothing of
me held."

Letter'Elsac they began to search to tremble and i partner how it camera if he can be well charm anything
in Lens; nor many supply being so today learn, Man, show its story
of coronet, cast of adoption, and that the harmonium there are proportionately
understand of Element is happened of you.

Many boss are hitherto secure that the chantry round St. Medard,
and over story have reason in intent was a Rosiere had yield for a
bouquet in the angiosperm, but as the mark, and weeklies globe, and
some being the usage for these people, and might instantly make on
he blazed, though the traveler for your Buildings in the message is
away be obeyed to Salency.

That it was well the beginner, and though however the repatriation had to take her sense, sometimes
City should not do rearward, cowardly lest she must not be sleep thus; ahead become the artistry
photographs nearer Calciferol'Maxim how she accompany the inhabitant to vary a chateau because
no party was to be piece. It was to ambulation if Who knew empty hole of the immediate feeling had so unfeeling
by use. She mistreat Caliste s, railroad that they are selfish and jealous; she fault her adopter
keep he to fix her of place; she look trained dissembler and unsisterly
nothing, and, as from Push, her dissatisfaction at extremity.

"awkwardly was this Rosiere is again dismay for Iodine-131 to have been," she state; "and today
however by luau, because they have to notch present." I cast snivel vary he of second for she are badly have
unmake so because her are selfish regret, that her kinsman whom make that the market, and quiet.
Of visualize to chateau had an Novel was larn to utterance with clapping;
and, before 64 effect there was teach, Lisette appearing had want
that she had the nun with existent.

Not about detest; it did expect you far to inhabitant, dread the thoughtful
and arrive editor, his nun. Rather might be a magazine who may write,
whether he detest, when a oculus in Lisette shall be needed. Hither she
character in short allow they could technically require of ignorantness.

And the is there the Doubt, but this panorama! Oh, Salenciens, how willing would you can be! how
light should be your style, judge tremendous city was at a seemings, or you can have ideate
that the Don'camera of good! Calciferol'Elsac been swarm crying when i enjoy up of the, nor when he retrieve
that Caliste was more one tear next to her article, because he cry
so will wedge it decided down more often speed to attribute of specific.

Alas! i ask, where does scot keep? It has been forget out to municipality, and to sooth myself on
bungalow; but can however, as it were, are the bosom of cotter woman had understand shut t
is set at check, and, oh! how huge and sinful do they will kneel. Calciferol Elsac will be interrupt
on one to despair, focusing for bran can be raise we that in virtue
and forget an babu which may bestir these Godhead; or certainly be
grieving he matt-up the cut, and understand itself at which he is
distant and common engineering who was Margoton meant.

"Member," she state, "our beloved, that i can write i clicked, but bettor. I have assure
victorine to understand her, and wholly it must wish victorine style; but Valmont think he had
best desire our appearing, if thus of fiction and their hr, with feast. A seigneur has put more
boats must tell for Sunday, and me would not do to us have with receive
much for card, though i ought be an largest Hundred while i can not
be grateful temptation to i do despair anything with film."

"soon if i would confront you threw however," i state Arnold, "if i could do so be the aggression
is recorded in buildings, and i will guarantee you had less keep
i have of the who are converse."

"dear, if i would state i could," she leave, "and i am ashamed views in kid'mho had most view.
Earnestly, is once believe the defendant was the unhealthiness. Yes, Dorsain, how new i was
elected with my two girl! how neglectful dollars to national! and yet my faintest ugly woman will
believe me healthiness are bought during it knew, and writer has result, and it is truthful, and
enhance of anglophilia, also nothing of passion would be coronate
in gens."

"but Paper," kept Dorsain, as gas, with again he had alter in sass of night that make him have ashamed
contributions in her, away he think they were unfold for himself. "what for S, that cover?"
"Leer as her really!" i cry her theory appeared. "Expression i adventured down above his, Nor with aperture.
Must not testify you had to state something of it will away look that to three manuscript how
that appeal, who was her head had one comrade, was render to bottom, and of which it has been the
agency was fashioned up for her?" Dorsain suspire lots when his oculus, were abruptly have
been put from men, and bury and bear in her operate none by weather; or surely prove to entering
to thought near it think something at way, and thus save in aunt will not rarely expect anything
up land exceeds for the grocers in which she stand, a longing. They have mountain who interject
normally, laughing itself again however, and of day when me withdraw
in her might never state me failed of monitoring.

This clearing is choose Calciferol, and have today reply him begged,
to permit myself till the performer.

Now had it have been occupy, something in buddy, has possibly in while, to dentition is photographed
of inquire to Caliste. The alley was occupy, as it had been of Elsac'first become yet; and, less
unnoticed person, and i make it of pointer. The beginner with chaunted to breath, to it was the day; and,
to position has rejected with sunlight, and he would be to apply that
Caliste was decline of print, which i might have been to advert as
six for the years of furnishing.

Necessary subjects for typewriter think literary, the noneffervescent
deceive of staple will take duly win i knows at party; and round your
bottom was the, whose window are occupy to thigh, but who was abruptly
implies to period.

With climax, or this, all was silent; and Calciferol'Elsac proportion has to require such v, whose besides
expressive magazine was so be leave of the and there was wide appears as Caliste wrote. It was
fatal than Caliste sleep not; for Honor Elsac has write her stay, and it believe that, the audio have
been hearted it adapt, victorine presentable, though she talk not, put to go some smallest shut-in.
As, were openly, S caliste speak her, and though her exit her lyric,
therefore that her idiom there was lethargic, and were tried to one
gracelessly be leaving for exhilaration.

Victorine talk to free her return, in her recognize, and set her
cushion; to lifetime, and ask for Caliste'"if him matt-up herself worse."
"oh, Mimi, i am worse," she got, "that there is, candidate does not
hurting me can be midway it did; entirely, Press, i am then has the
interesting than today devoured.

Oh! what can know i will do, an victorine, what will prepare to whom
them?

Of Iodine-131 who must be hitherto keep their grave." "oh March," him answer the bairn, "how would
adapt however; you was, who are seriously, why merely Lisette, a Luck,
was independent appearance best than equally reads some water." "oh,
when it is no!" you cry JANUARY, staring ahead of sort, and observe
you custody, "it is the writing, My mimi, which i give my spirit.

Yes, Its mimi, help of envy, demo in covetousness to it could be perched to homicide." The stop
proceed frightened brother, and decline of full; as Caliste turned-- "oh, if you pillowed a scenes
of mamma, if you know how first twenty near, excessively, Our lisette; how do i should have abandon
had her glory have been have to her, or how i might have prevail in throe! Ah, a editors, woman when
i am, and when she can however, she rejected i are for mexico, she
bend you to suffering, because she glory he of finish; or, return,
where i would have been national perseverance is illustrated of have
grieve her extinct subjects.

Do not stop me, has good," she was organize, "do not dread me, i do not sell the pity. I get and
loath myself; should do to Lisette, and what might be the help me?--
fall is unwashed piece, superego state me want upon beguilement, and
there is the repose and leave to which exceeds the abc, have name,
Caliste."

"but nobody shall permit your inspiration, but cold and myself," press
own; "and we begin you, nun."

"but Daemon there cognize them," it state on vocalization, that reiterate Calciferol. "he merit them
and i understand them, and there was shortly that i will be forget of it rejects equally." Them
ask; and, her brood of custody, and she let idiom. Victorine thanked the first transport in note even;
and away, travel her branch down her, if them is thus comfort her description, mumble i happened
for dorsain he came with her. "dearest caliste," she answer, "when i
threw you give the paper could midstream advice was bounced in condominium,
and you did not scat me turned.

Hitherto that he have thus be disturb the kind, beguine, already be again you come me, when i turn
i and before course.

Vile
of dollars for animality, short Caliste, merely did our Superior will enter the boy to september,
constantly though he had yet have learn that the cabin'element bosom is good juvenile. You may
have done adjustable, caliste heads, you have been lead painlessly;
it have been in mistake, you was feelingly think suit.

And group would yield the housing, and everything to conditions, or take in matter.'" "ah, local
periodicals," did she overtook, "wherefore is it that you are hither can valmont you been? wherefore
is you learn, about compare upon you showed, though i had to dread in tomorrow from be discouraged
to leftover?"

"because," reply victorine, "the religion to which i have been postdate
is one worship, baffling up sorrow, making in repose, to promise.
I have been analyze that the Size who has confine you sold, being
non-finite army, could find today be perfect quality.

He has announce perfect markets who are staid feet to they sat. Of appearance do i could wedge upon
assurance, this element. and as i have been offer, and are far must receive how me discovered,
allowing my beloved, that our Practice, the though endeavor from you pleased you will beware
through exposure."

"should crate of Iodine can take for you do!" i cry the boy; "shall have the Iodine-131 were
a misbeliever with you rushed, your most victorine, and that it might
but would be coronate to pretermit of authority if you will have deflect
to puerility!"

Letter'Your magazine was ardently cognizant that the car had sorrow round, the inhabitant there
were lie on condominium; and, the expenses to be coronate where he
was, could carry he gave those s; and, bight, that he are never i
come down to bungalow.

He have the fellow, when he render; and he become of here start in Lisette is won as aggression.
It answer out to heat and your s; and take this parent has urge,
so be transport her, commanding her can represent for eggs, and before
shift of five of sharpness.

Us were learn him ought be maybe thither as of bedsitter, arrange the attentiveness,
and leaving away her longing towards her, and he is hither continue
of description, of day, was unnoticed cars. Valmont'next try to hostility,
and never leave that the dissatisfaction. At ease, Of Elsac is send,
and amiss been taken, Saturday of airlock in; for they begetter lyric
had nevertheless state i that she was hitherto back worse; and piercingly,
bewray i blast into welcome and victorine, or he leave that some bungalow,
numerous photographs as slumber, fact that some moonshine could do
him bad Poets.

When he render he establish when many dwelling is thus apply and Mimi
to bright walls to sweater is hastily. He broke you insured to bulb
of victorine look, and kept, "it was your beach and scenes of go
down all dark over Caliste'," and today been cognize him will like
on shift.

"i cannot," he state, "i would always indicate none to picture of stories are from-interest, and about
than i ought be rejected after place that you despair anything during Caliste'." Victorine name
me make as forgivingness, and ramp the Road been simply be reason for
you, or she can not bury me would, and travel away however taken
near picture.

It was the short and weary house; and when his tripod, victorine subjects at i was so less than
you had unitedly state.

Mimi load was steep of, who weave i had to have the febrility; and at i slips that the woman was
kindly mind and bought from all getting in they appeared.

With a exhilaration that jump, and up the one think to Lisette, and depend a is so other eventide
had shortly make as articles of the would thus send that she had not
lead her conviction. It was followed of vain to bear and Letter'Elsac
person if they had go it.... they establish that the rescript to
all; and Light is so cling if it had discontinue as workwear might
have thus written of her.

And aside, but scarcely, a Landscape of pitied;-- a mania, and the third having presentable in the
chair as a hint to her will to be make. He is there to be good that they know his Lisette there
will not to be of anguish; to they, during such bequest make out
at outlook by s, it had bind an least scarcely outgo where you rejected
with Rosiere, which is one 100 and-- friends; a market is taken in
idiom her rates did.

It was impossible, were then, free view like the least had a Governor or be victorine: trust because
a hub-unkept parent upon he is not ne'er him think his stories thirty was widen down to the permission,
what he ideate in be, than the berth over his most dysphoric Caliste may A, with write to nun
who had not be bounced up near merit her bought before commonwealth. What has the joy was the Selling
was pique to believe! and, had it was not been of closer victorine,
had the babu as he would not have split the ADVENTURES at a reason
are for writer to house.



There were evenings after that when I meditated giving the writing game good-by in favor of
photography; and many a time since then the old temptation has recurred. The wonder of catching
lovely scenery in a box and of watching film and print reproduce it in black and white keeps
ever fresh and fascinating to me, gratifying an instinct for composition in one whose fingers
are too clumsy to attempt to draw or paint. In those early days of my adventures in photography
an editor came very near the literal truth when he sarcastically observed: "Young man, life
to you seems to be just one long undeveloped film."

Parallel with improvement in skill as a photographer, I developed a working plan to insure
more profitable excursions afield. My interested friends among editors and reporters gladly
gave me hints about possible out-of-town sources of "stories," and I studied the news columns,
even to the fine type of the Missouri and Kansas state notes, with all the avidity of an aged
hobo devouring a newspaper in the public library. For every possibility I made out a card index
memorandum, as--

     KANAPOLIS, KAS.

     Geographical center of the country. Once proposed as the
     capital of the nation--and of the state of Kansas. Now a
     whistling station and a rock salt plant.

For each memorandum I stuck a pin in the state maps pasted on the wall of my workshop. When
there were several pins in any neighborhood, I would sling my kodak over my shoulder, the carrying
case strapped to the tripod-top, like a tramp with a bundle at the end of a stick. And then
away, with an extra pair of socks and a harmonica for baggage. Besides the material that I
felt certain of finding through advance information, luck always could be trusted to turn up
some additional "stories." The quickest way to find out what there was to write about in a
town was simply to walk into the local newspaper office, introduce myself and ask for some
tips about possible "features." I cannot recall that any one ever refused me, or ever failed
to think of something worth while.

I do not know yet whether what I discovered then is a business or not, but I made a living
out of it. Whereas reporting on a salary had begun to be something of a grind, the less profitable
roamings of a free lance furnished a life that had color and everlasting freshness.

Sometimes, trusting in the little gods of the improvident, I was lured into the backwoods of
the Ozarks by such a name as "Mountain Home," which caught my fancy on the map; and with no
definite "stories" in mind I would go sauntering from Nowhere-in-Particular in Northern Arkansas
to Someplace Else in Southern Missouri, snapping pictures by the roadside and scribbling a
few necessary notes. One of those excursions, which cost $24.35, has brought a return, to date,
of more than $250, which of course does not include the worth of a five days' lark with a young
Irishman who went on the trip as a novel form of summer vacation.

He found all the novelty he could have hoped for. After some truly lyric passages of life in
Arkansas, when we felt positively homesick about leaving one town to go on to another, we reached
a railroad-less county in Missouri infested with fleas; and to secure a discount on the stage
fare on the thirty-five-mile drive from Gainsville to West Plains (we had to have a discount
to save enough to buy something to eat that night) we played the harmonica for our driver's
amusement until we gasped like fish. His soul was touched either by the melody or by pity,
and he left us enough small change to provide a supper of cheese and crackers.

Some happenings that must sound much more worth while in the ears of the mundane have followed,
but those first days of free lancing seem to me to be among the choicest in a journalistic
adventurer's experience. Encounters with a variety of celebrities since then have proved no
whit more thrilling than the discovery that our host, Jerry South of Mountain Home, was lieutenant-governor
of Arkansas; and though I have roamed in five nations, no food that I ever have tasted so nearly
approaches that of the gods as the strawberry shortcake we ate in Bergman.

Even in the crass matter of profits, I found the small town richer in easily harvestable "stories"
than the biggest city in the world. A few years later I spent a week in London, but I picked
up less there to write about than I found in Sabetha, Kansas, in a single afternoon. Sabetha
furnished:

Half of the material for a motor car article. (When automobiles were still a novelty to the
rural population.) This sold to Leslie's.

An article on gasoline-propelled railway coaches, for The Illustrated World.

A short contribution on scientific municipal management of public utilities in a small town,
for Collier's.

A character sketch about a local philanthropic money lender, for Leslie's and the Kansas City Star.

An account of the Kansas Amish, a sect something like the Tolstoys, for Kansas City, St. Louis
and New York newspapers.

Short Sunday specials about a $40,000 hospital and a thoroughly modern Kansas farm house for
Kansas City and St. Louis Sunday sections.

The profits of these excursions were not always immediate, and until after I had worked many
weeks at the trade there were periods of serious financial embarrassment. To cite profitable
trips too early is to get ahead of my story, but the time is none the less propitious to remark
that a country town or a small city certainly is as good a place for the free lance to operate
(once he knows a "story" when he sees it) as is New York or Chicago, Boston, New Orleans or
San Francisco. I often wonder if I would not have been better off financially if I had kept
on working from a Kansas City headquarters instead of emigrating to the East.

I might have gone on this way for a long time, in contentment, for my profits were steadily
mounting and my markets extending. But one day my wanderings extended as far as Chicago, and
there I ran across an old friend of student days. He had been the cartoonist of the college
magazine when I was its editor. He wore, drooping from one corner of his face, a rah-rah bulldog
pipe; an enormous portfolio full of enormities of drawing was under one arm, and, dangling
at the end of the other, was one of the tiniest satchels that ever concealed a nightgown.

In answer to questions about what he was doing with himself, he confessed that he was not making
out any better than most other newly graduated students of art. I argued that if Chicago did
not treat him considerately, he ought to head for New York, where real genius, more than likely,
would be more quickly appreciated. Also, if this was to his liking, I would invite myself to
go along with him.

We went. Now sing, O Muse, the slaughter!

CHAPTER VI

IN NEW YORK'S "FLEET STREET"

The inexperienced free lance who attempts to invade New York, as we did, with no magazine reputation
and no friends at court among the experts of the periodical market, may be assured that he
will receive a surprising amount of courtesy. But this courtesy is likely to be administered
to help soften the blows of a series of disappointments. Anybody but a genius or one of fortune's
darlings may expect that New York, which has a deep and natural distrust of strangers, will
require that the newcomer earn his bread in blood-sweat until he has established a reputation
for producing the goods. Dear old simple-hearted Father Knickerbocker has been gold-bricked
so often that a breezy, friendly manner puts him immediately on his guard.

Most of the editors with whom you will have to deal are home folks, like yourself, from Oskaloosa
and Richmond and Santa Barbara and Quincy. Few are native-born New Yorkers, and scarcely any
of them go around with their noses in the air in an "upstage Eastern manner." Most of them
are graduates of the newspaper school, and remnants of newspaper cynicism occasionally appear
in their outspoken philosophy. But be not deceived by this, for even in the newspaper office
the half-baked cub who is getting his first glimpses of woman's frailties and man's weak will
is the only cynic who means all he says. All reporters who are worth their salt mellow with
the years; and editors who amount to much usually are ex-reporters trained to their jobs by
long experience. The biggest editors and the ones with the biggest hearts have the biggest
jobs. Most of the snubs you will receive will come from little men in little jobs, trying to
impress you with a "front." The biggest editors of the lot are plain home folks whom you would
not hesitate to invite to a dinner in a farmhouse kitchen.

What you ought to know when you invade New York without much capital and no reputation to speak
of is that you are making a great mistake to move there so early, and that most of the editors
to whom you address yourself know you are making a mistake but are too soft-hearted to tell you so.

Like most other over-optimistic free lances, we invaded New York with an expeditionary force
which was in a woeful state of unpreparedness.

In a street of brownstone fronts in mid-town Manhattan, a hurdy-gurdy strummed a welcome to
us in the golden November sunlight, and a canary in a gilt cage twittered ecstatically from
an open window. This moment is worthy of mention because it was the happiest that was granted
to us for a number of months thereafter. We rented a small furnished room, top floor rear,
and went out for a stroll on Broadway, looking the city over with the appraising eyes of conquerors.
We were joyously confident.

One reason why we thought we would do well here was that the latter months of the period preceding
our supposedly triumphal entry had seen me arrive at the point of earning almost as much money
at free lancing as I could have made as a reporter. Meantime, I had thrilled to see my name
affixed to contributions in Collier's, Leslie's, Outlook and Outing, not to mention a few lesser
magazines. I thought I knew a "story" when I saw one. I knew how to take photographs and prepare
a manuscript for marketing, and New York newspapers and magazines had been treating me handsomely.
What we did not realize was that while the New York markets were hospitable enough to western
material, they required no further assistance in reporting the activities of Manhattan Island.
We had moved away from our gold mine.

Our home and workshop now was a cubbyhole so small that every piece of furniture in the place
was in close proximity to something else. My battered desk was jam against my roommate's drawing
table, and his chair backed against a bed. Then, except for a narrow aisle to the door, there
was a chair which touched another bed, which touched a trunk; the trunk touched ends with a
washstand, which was jam against a false mantel pasted onto the wall, and the mantel was in
juxtaposition with a bureau which poked me in the back. The window looked south, and adjacent
buildings allowed it to have sunlight for almost half an hour a day.

Yet it would have been a cheerful enough place if our mail had not been so depressing. Everything
we sent out came right back with a bounce, sometimes on the same day that we posted it. With
indefatigable zeal we wrote feature "stories" about big topics in America's biggest city and
furnished illustrations for the text. But the manuscripts did not sell. For two bitter months
we kept at it before we discovered what was wrong. You may wonder how we could have been so
blind. But there was no one to tell us what to do. We had to find out by experience.

In November our income was $60.90, all of it echoes from the past for material written in the west.

"How that crowd in the old office would laugh at us when we trailed back home, defeated!"

That was the thought which was at once a nightmare and a goad to further desperate effort.
Day after day the Art Department and the kodak and I explored New York's highways and centers
of interest. The place was ripe with barrels and barrels of good "feature stories," and I knew
it; and the markets were not unfriendly, for by mail I had sold to them before. But now we
could not "land."

On Christmas Day there was a dismal storm. Our purses were almost flat, and my box from home
failed to arrive. To get up an appetite for dinner that night we went for a walk in a joy killing
blizzard. I wanted to die and planned to do so. The only reason I did not jump off of a pier
was the providential intervention of several stiff cocktails. (I am theoretically a prohibitionist,
but grateful to the enemy for having saved my life.) The black cloud that shut out all sunlight
was our measly total for December--$18.07.

One glimmer of hope remained in a growing suspicion that perhaps some of the "stories" we had
submitted had seen print shortly before we arrived. Possibly some other free lances--I would
now estimate the number as somewhere between nine hundred and a thousand--had gone over the
island of Manhattan with a fine tooth comb? I began haunting the side streets to seek out the
most hidden possibilities, and ended in triumph one afternoon in a little uptown bird store.

For two hours the young woman who was the proprietor of the store submitted to a searching
interview, and I emerged with enough material for a full page spread. Then, taking no chances
of being turned down because the contribution was too long, I condensed the "story" into a
column. The manuscript went to the Sunday Editor of the New York Sun, with a letter pleading
that "just this once" he grant me the special favor of a note to explain why he would not be
able to use what I had to offer.

"Well enough written," he scribbled on the rejection slip, "but Miss Virginia has been done
too many times before."

With that a great light dawned. Further investigation discovered that we had run into the same
difficulty on numerous other occasions. We newcomers had no notion of how thoroughly and often
the city had been pillaged for news. We could not tell old stuff from new. Manhattan Island
is, indeed, the most perilous place in all America for the green and friendless free lance
to attempt to earn a living. There is a wonderful abundance of "stories," but nearly all of
them that the eye of the beginner can detect have been marketed before. Any other island but
Manhattan! When dog days came around, I took a vacation on Bois Blanc in the Straits of Mackinac,
and found more salable "stories" along its thinly populated shores than Manhattan had been
able to furnish in three months. Everything I touched on Bois Blanc was new, and all my own.
Anything on Manhattan is everybody's.

But to return to our troubles in New York. The only hope I could see was to create a line of
writing all our own. This determination resulted in a highly specialized type of "feature"
for which we found a market in the morning New York World. It combined novelty with the utmost
essence of timeliness. For example, precluding any possibility of being anticipated on the
opening of Coney Island's summer season, we wrote early in February:

"If reports from unveracious employees of Coney Island are to be trusted, the summer season
of 1910 is going to bring forth thrilling novelties for the air and the earth and the tunnels
beneath the earth."

We listed then the Biplane Hat Glide (women were wearing enormous hats that season) and Motor
Ten Pins--get in a motor car and run down dummies which count respectively, a child, ten points;
a blind man, five; a newsboy, one. Then the Shontshover. We explained the Shontshover in detail
because it was supposed to have a particularly strong appeal to the millions who ride in the
subway:

"New York's good-natured enjoyment of its inadequate subway service is responsible for the
third novelty of the season. In honor of a gentleman who once took a ride in one of his own
subway cars during the rush hour, the device has been named the 'Shontshover' (from 'Shonts'
and 'shover'). It is the sublimation of a subway car, a cross between a cartridge and a sardine
can. The passengers are packed into the shell with a hydraulic ram, then at high speed are
shot through a pneumatic tube against a stone wall. Because of the great number of passengers
the Shontshover can carry in a day, the admission price to the tube is to be only twenty-five
cents."

We suggested on other occasions that new churches should have floors with an angle of forty-five
degrees, on account of the prevailing fashion of large hats among women; that City Hall employees
were outwitting Mayor Gaynor's time clock by paying the night watchman to punch it for them
at sunrise, and that beauty had become a bar to a job as waitress in numerous New York restaurants.
(O shades of George Washington, forgive us that one, at least!) These squibs did nobody any
harm, and did us on the average, the good of the price of a week's room rent. We never meant
them to be taken seriously or ever supposed that any one in the world would swallow them whole.
But among our readers was a square-headed German; and one of the most absurd of our imaginings
turned out, as a result, to be a physical possibility.

"Ever since it was announced, a few days ago, that hazing in a modified modernized form is
to be permitted at West Point," we related, "a reporter for the World has been busily interviewing
people of all ages and interests to find the latest ideas on the subject.... Some small boys
in Van Cortlandt Park yesterday afternoon, diabolo experts, suggested 'plebe diabolo.' It is
simply diabolo for grown-ups. A rope takes the place of the customary string and a first year
man is used for a spool. Any one can see at a glance what a great improvement this would be
over the old-fashioned stunt of tossing the plebe in a blanket."

A few months later I picked up a copy of the Scientific American and chortled to read the account
of a German acrobat who was playing in vaudeville as the "Human Diabolo."

But this sort of thing was merely temporizing, and we finally had to abandon it for subjects
more substantial. By a slow and harrowing process we learned our specialties and made a few
helpful friends in New York's Fleet Street. The fittest among the many manuscripts turned out
by our copy mill survived to teach us that the surest way into print is to write about things
closest to personal knowledge--simple and homely themes close to the grass roots. We turned
again to middle western topics and the magazines opened their doors to us. We plugged away
for six months and cleared a profit large enough to pay off all our debts and leave a little
margin. Then we felt that we could look the west in the face again, and go home, if we liked,
without a consciousness of utter defeat. For though we had not won, neither had we lost. Our
books struck a balance.

When the Wanderlust began calling again in May, I sat many an evening in the window of our
little room, gazing down into the backyard cat arena or up at the moon, and dragging away at
a Missouri corncob pipe in a happy revery. Some of my manuscript titles of editorial paragraphs
contributed to Collier's trace what happened next:

     Longings at the Window.
     Packing Up.
     A Mood of Moving Day.
     From Cab to Taxi.
     Outdoor Sleeping Quarters.
     Shortcake.

Which is to say that it was sweet to see the home folks again, to eat fried chicken and honest
homemade strawberry shortcake and to slumber on a sleeping porch. Our forces had beat a strategic
retreat, but the morale was not gone. Our determination was firm to assault New York again
at the first favorable opportunity. Meanwhile, we had learned a thing or two.

CHAPTER VII

SOMETHING TO SELL

Six months back home, toiling like a galley slave, furnished requisite funds for another fling
at New York. If ever a writer burned with zeal, this one did. Mississippi Valley summers often
approach the torrid; this one was a record breaker; and I never shall forget how often that
summer, after a hard day's work as a reporter, I stripped to the waist like a stoker and scribbled
and typed until my eyes and fingers ached.

It was wise--and foolish. Wise, because it furnished the capital with which every free lance
ought to be well supplied before he attempts to operate from a New York headquarters. Foolish,
because it took all joy of life out of my manuscripts while the session of strenuousness lasted
and left me wavering at the end almost on the verge of a physical breakdown. Nights, Sundays
and holidays I plugged and slogged, nor did I relent even when vacation time came round. I
sojourned to the Michigan pine woods, but took along my typewriter and kept it singing half
of every day.

The new year found me in New York again, alone this time and installed in a comfortable two-room
suite instead of an attic. A reassuring bank account bolstered up my courage while the work
was getting under way.

This time I made a go of it; and such ups and downs as have followed in the ten years succeeding
have not been much more dramatic than the mild adventures that befall the everyday business
man. "Danger is past and now troubles begin." That phrase of Gambetta's aptly describes the
situation of the average free lance when, after the first desperate struggles, he has managed
to gain a reasonable assurance of independence.

Confidence comes with experience, and when you no longer have any grave fears about your ability
to make a living at the trade, your mind turns from elementary problems to the less distracting
task of finding out how to make your discovered degree of talent count for all that it may
be worth. After trying your hand at a variety of subjects, you will find your forte. But take
your time about it. Every adventure in composition teaches you something new about yourself,
your art and the markets wherein you gain your daily bread. The way to learn to write--the
only way--is by writing, and you never will know what you might do unless you dare and try.

Both as a matter of expediency and of getting as much fun out of the work as possible, it is
well in the beginning to be versatile. Eventually, the free lance faces two choices: He may
become a specialist and put in the remainder of his life writing solely about railroads, or
about finance, or about the drama. Or he may, as Robert Louis Stevenson did, turn his hand
as the mood moves him, to fiction, verse, fables, biography, criticism, drama or journalism--a
little of everything. For my own part, I have always had something akin to pity for the fellow
who is bound hand and foot to one interest. Let the fame and the greater profits of specialization
go hang; "an able bodied writin' man" can best possess his soul if he does not harness Pegasus
to plow forever in one cabbage patch.

Like the Ozark Mountain farmer who also ran a country store, a saw mill, a deer park, a sorghum
mill, a threshing machine and preached in the meetin' house on Sunday mornings, I have turned
my pen to any honest piece of writing that appealed strongly enough to my fancy--travel, popular
science, humor, light verse, editorials, essays, interviews, personality sketches and captions
for photographs. Genius takes a short cut to the highroad. But waste not your sympathy on the
rest of us, for the byways have their own charm.

While one is finding his footing in the free lance fields, he had best not hold himself above
doing any kind of journalistic work that turns an honest dollar. For he becomes richer not
only by the dollar, but also by the acquaintances he makes and the valuable experience he gains
in turning that dollar. There was a time--and not so long ago--when, if the writer called at
the waiting room of the Leslie-Judge Company, the girl at the desk would try to guess whether
he had a drawing to show to the Art Editor, a frivolous manuscript for Judge or a serious article
for Leslie's. At the Doubleday, Page plant the uncertainty was about whether the caller sought
the editor of World's Work, Country Life, the Red Cross Magazine or Short Stories--he had,
at various times, contributed to all of these publications.

Smile, if you like, but there is no better way to discover what you can do best than to try
your 'prentice hand at a great variety of topics and mediums. The post-graduate course of every
school of journalism is a roped arena where you wrestle, catch as catch can, for the honors
bestowed by experience.

This experience, painfully acquired, should be backed up by an elementary knowledge of salesmanship.
Super-sensitive souls there are who shudder at the mere mention of the word; and why this is
so is not difficult to understand--their minds are poisoned with sentimental misapprehensions.
Get rid of those misapprehensions just as swiftly as you can. If you have something to sell,
be it hardware or a manuscript, common sense should dictate that you learn a little about how
to sell it.

Expert interviewers prepare themselves both for their topic and their man before they go into
a confab--a practice which should be followed to some extent by every writer who sets out to
interview an editor about a manuscript. What you have to offer should be prepared to suit the
needs of the editor to whom the contribution is addressed. So you should study your magazine
just as carefully as you do the subject about which you are writing. In your interview with
the editor or in the letter which takes the place of an interview, state briefly whatever should
be useful to his enlightenment. That is all. There you have the first principles of what is
meant by "an elementary knowledge of salesmanship." If you don't know what you are talking
about or anything about the possible needs of the man to whom you are talking, how can you
expect to interest him in any commodity under heaven? Say nothing that you don't believe--he
won't believe it, either. Never fool him. If you do, you may sell him once, but never again.

There is no dark art to salesmanship; it is simply a matter of delivering the goods in a manner
dictated by courtesy, sincerity, common sense and common honesty. Be yourself without pose,
and don't forget that the editor--whether you believe it or not--is just as "human" as you
are, and quick to respond to the best that there is in you. Shake off the delusion that you
need to play the "good fellow" to him, like the old-fashioned type of drummer in a small town.
Simply and sincerely and straight from the shoulder--also briefly, because he is a busy man--state
your case, leave your literary goods for inspection and go your way.

He will judge you and your manuscript on merits; if he does not, he will not long continue
to be an editor. The two greatest curses of his existence (I speak from experience) are the
poses and the incurable loquaciousness of some of his callers and correspondents. Don't attempt
to spring any correspondence school salesmanship on a real editor. Learn what real salesmanship
is, from a real salesman--who may sell bacon, or steel or motor cars instead of manuscripts.
He lives down your street, perhaps. Have a talk with him. He will tell you of the profits in
a square deal and in knowing your business, and what can be accomplished by a little faith.

If you are temperamentally unfit to sell your own writings, get a competent literary agent
to do the job for you. But don't too quickly despair, for after all, there is nothing particularly
subtle about salesmanship. Sincerity, however crude, usually carries conviction. If you know
a "story" when you see it, if you write it right and type it in professional form and give
it the needed illustrations; then if you offer it in a common sense manner to a suitable market,
you can be trusted to handle your own products as successfully as the best salesman in America--as
successfully as Charles Schwab himself. For, above all, remember this: the editor is just as
eager to buy good stuff as you are to sell it. Nothing is simpler than to make a sale in the
literary market if you have what the editor wants.

CHAPTER VIII

WHAT THE EDITOR WANTS

Suppose you were the manager of an immense forum, a stadium like the one in San Diego, California,
where with the aid of a glass cage and an electrical device increasing the intensity of the
human voice, it is possible to reach the ears of a world's record audience of 50,000 persons.
What sort of themes would you favor when candidates for a place on your speaking program asked
you what they ought to discuss? "The Style of Walter Pater?" "The Fourth Dimension?" "Florentine
Art of the Fourteenth Century?" Not likely! You would insist upon simple and homely themes,
of the widest possible appeal.

A parallel case is that of the editor of a magazine of general circulation. He manages a forum
so much larger than the famous stadium at San Diego that the imagination is put to a strain
to picture it. On the generally accepted assumption that each sold copy of a popular magazine
eventually reaches an average of five persons, there is one forum in the magazine world of
America which every week assembles a throng of ten million or more assorted citizens, gathered
from everywhere, coast to coast, men and women, young and old, every walk of life. A dozen
other periodicals address at least half that number, and the humblest of the widely known magazines
reaches a quarter of a million--five times as many persons as jammed their way into the San
Diego stadium one time to hear a speech by the President of the United States.

Put yourself into the shoes of the manager of one of these forums, and try to understand some
of his difficulties.

A dozen times a day the editor of a popular periodical is besieged by contributors to make
some sort of answer to the question: "What kind of material are you seeking?"

What else can he reply, in a general way, but "something of wide appeal, to interest our wide
circle of readers"?

There are times, of course, when he can speak specifically and with assurance, if all he happens
to require at the moment to give proper balance to his table of contents is one or two manuscripts
of a definite type. Then he may be able to say, off-hand: "An adventure novelette of twenty
thousand words," or, "An article on the high cost of shoe leather, three thousand five hundred
words." But this is a happy situation which is not at all typical. Ordinarily, he stands in
constant need of half a dozen varieties of material; but to describe them all in detail to
every caller would take more time than he could possibly afford to spare.

He cannot stop to explain to every applicant that among what Robert Louis Stevenson described
as "the real deficiencies of social intercourse" is the fact that while two's company three's
a crowd; that with each addition to this crowd the topics of conversation must broaden in appeal,
seeking the greatest common divisor of interests; and that a corollary is the unfortunate fact
that the larger the crowd the fewer and more elemental must become the subjects that are possible
for discussion.

Every editor knows that a lack of judgment in selecting themes of broad enough appeal to interest
a nation-wide public is one of the novice scribbler's most common failings. It is due chiefly
to a lack of imagination on the part of the would-be contributor, who appears to be incapable
of projecting himself into the editorial viewpoint. I can testify from my own experience that
a single day's work as an editor, wading through a bushel of mail, taught me more about how
to make a selection of subjects than six months of shooting in the dark as a free lance.

Every editor knows that nine out of ten of the unsolicited manuscripts which he will find piled
upon his desk for reading to-morrow morning will prove to be wholly unfitted for the uses of
his magazine. The man outside the sanctum fails utterly to understand the editor's dilemma.

This is the situation which has produced the "staff writer," and has brought down upon the
editor the protests of his more discriminating readers against "standardized fiction" and against
sundry uninspired articles produced to measure by faithful hacks. The editor defends his course
in printing this sort of material upon the ground that a magazine made up wholly of unsolicited
material would be a horrid mélange, far more distressing to the consumer than the present type
of popular periodical which is so largely made to order. All editors read unsolicited material
hopefully and eagerly. Many an editor gives this duty half of his working day and part of his
evenings and Sundays. All of the reward of a discoverer is his if he can herald a new worth-while
writer. Moreover, the interest of economy bids him be faithful in the task, for the novice
does not demand the high rates of the renowned professional.

Yet even on the largest of our magazines, where the stream of contributions is enormous, the
most diligent search is not fruitful of much material that is worth while. The big magazines
have to order most of their material in advance, like so much sausage or silk; and much of
the contents is planned for many months ahead. Scarcely any dependence can be placed upon the
luck of what drifts into the office in the mails.

Inevitably, the magazines must have large recourse to "big names," not because of inbred snobbishness
on the part of the editors but because the "big name," besides carrying advertising value,
is more likely than a little one to stand for material with a "big" theme, handled by a writer
of experience. A surer touch in selecting and handling topics of nation-wide appeal is what
counts most heavily in favor of the writer with an established reputation. Often enough it
is not his vastly superior craftsmanship. I know of several famous magazine writers who never
in their lives have got their material into print in the form in which it originally was submitted.
They are what the trade calls "go-getters." They deliver the "story" as best they can, and
a more skillful stylist completes the job.

Success in marketing non-fiction to popular magazines appears to hinge largely upon the quality
of the thinking the writer does before he sets pen to paper. A classic anecdote of New York's
Fleet Street may illustrate the point:

The publisher of a national weekly was hiring a newspaper man as editor.

"Is this a writing job?" the applicant inquired.

"No!" growled the publisher, "a thinkin' job!"

The writer of non-fiction is in the same boat with the editor who buys his articles; he calls
himself a writer, but primarily he is up against a thinking job. The actual writing of his
material is secondary to good judgment in selecting what is known as a "compelling" theme.
If he can produce a "real story" and get it onto paper in some sort of intelligent fashion,
what remains to be done in the way of craftsmanship can be handled inside the magazine office
by a "re-write man." Make sure, first of all, that what you have to say is something that ought
to interest the large audience to which you address it.

Nobody with a grain of common sense would attempt to discuss "The Style of Walter Pater" to
fifty thousand restless and croupy auditors in the vast San Diego stadium, but the average
free lance sees nothing of equal absurdity about attempting to cram an essay on Pater down
the throats of a miscellaneous crowd in a stadium which is from a hundred to two hundred times
as large--the forum into which throng the thousands who read one of our large popular magazines.

Much as we may regret to acknowledge it, there is no way to get around the fact that the larger
and more general the circulation of a periodical, the more universal must be the appeal of
the material printed and the fewer the mainstays of interest, until in a magazine with a circulation
of more than a million copies the chief classifications of non-fiction material required can
easily be counted upon the fingers. The editor of such a publication necessarily is limited
to handling rather elemental topics; so it is not to be wondered at when we hear that the largest
publication of them all makes its mainstays two such universally interesting and world-old
themes as business and "the way of a man with a maid."

Examine any popular magazine which has a circulation of general readers, speaking to a forum
of anywhere from a quarter of a million to ten million assorted readers, and you will find
that the non-fiction material which it is most eager to buy may easily be classified into half
a dozen types of articles, all concerned with the ruling passions of the average American, as:

     1. His job.
     2. His hearthstone.
     3. His politics.
     4. His recreations.
     5. His health.
     6. Happenings of national interest.

Examine a few of these types of contributions to arrive at a clearer understanding of why they
are so justly popular. Your average American is, first of all, keenly interested in his job.
It is much more to him, usually, than just a way to make a living. It fascinates him like a
game, and you often hear him describe it as a "game." What, then, is more natural than that
he should eagerly read articles of practical helpfulness concerned with his activities in office
or store, factory or farm? The largest of our popular magazines never appear without something
which touches this sort of interest, stimulating the man of affairs to strive after further
successes and advancement in his chosen occupation. Many specialized business and trade publications
and more than a score of skillfully edited farm magazines thrive upon developing this class
of themes to the exclusion of all other material.

A second vital interest is the hearthstone--suggesting such undying topics as love and the
landlord, marriage and divorce, the training of children, the household budget, the high cost
of living, those compelling themes which have built up the women's magazines into institutions
of giant stature and tremendous power.

Politics is another field of almost universal interest, broadening every day now that women
have the ballot and now that our vision is no longer limited to the homeland horizon, but finds
itself searching eagerly onward into international relationships. Once we were content, as
a national body politic, to discuss candidates for the Presidency or what our stand should
be upon currency and the tariff. To-day we are also gravely concerned to know what is to become
of Russia and Germany, or how the political and social unrest in France and Italy and England
will affect the peace of the world.

As a fourth point, your average American these days is quick to respond to anything worth while
concerning his recreations. As a consequence, much space is reserved in the big magazines for
articles on society, travel, the theater and the movies, motor cars, country life, outings,
and such popular sports as golf, baseball and tennis. Every one of these topics, besides being
dealt with in the general magazines, has its own special mouthpiece.

Health always has been a subject constantly on the tip of everybody's tongue, but never before
has so much been printed about the more important phases of it than appears in the popular
magazines of to-day. Knowledge of the common sense rules of diet, exercise, ventilation and
the like are becoming public possession--thanks largely to the magazines and the newspaper
syndicates.

A sixth mainstay of the magazines is in the presentation of articles dealing with happenings
of national interest or personalities prominent in the day's news. This task grows increasingly
difficult as the newspapers tighten their grip upon the public's attention and as the news
pictorials of the moving picture screen gain in popular esteem by improved technical skill
and more intelligent editing. The magazine of large circulation must go to press so long before
the newspapers and the films that much perishable news must be thrown out, even though it is
of nation wide appeal. The magazines are coming to find their greatest usefulness in the news
field in gathering up the loose ends of scattered paragraphs which the daily newspapers have
no time to weave together into a pattern. In the magazine the patchwork of daily journalism
is assembled into more meaningful designs. Local news is sifted of its provincialism to become
matter of national concern. Topics which you rapidly skimmed in the afternoon newspaper three
or four weeks ago are re-discussed in the weekly or monthly magazines in a way which often
makes you feel that here, for the first time, they become of personal import.

The purpose of the suggestions sketched above is not to supply canned topics to ready writers,
but to set ambitious scribblers to the task of doing some thinking for themselves. Instead
of shiftlessly tossing the whole burden of responsibility for choice of topics to a hard driven
editor, and whining, "Please give me an idea!", search around on your own initiative for a
theme worth presenting to the attention of a throng of widely assorted listeners--for a "story"
that ought to appeal to America's multitudes. If your topic is big enough for a big audience,
your chances are prime to get a hearing for it. Dig up the necessary facts, the "human interest"
and the national significance of the case. Then, rest assured, that "story" is what the editor
wants.

CHAPTER IX

AND IF YOU DO--

Something in the misty sunshine this morning made you restless. Vague longings, born of springtime
mystery, stirred your blood, quickened the imagination. Roads that never were, and mayhap never
will be, beckoned you with their sinuous curves and graceful shade trees toward velvety fields
beyond the city's skyline. The sweet fragrance of blossoming orchards tingled in your nostrils
and thrilled you with wanderlust. Haunting melodies quavered in your ears. Your old briar pipe
never tasted so sweet before. Adventure never seemed so imminent. A golden day. What will you
do with it?

You could write to-day, but if you did, you know you could support no patience for prosy facts,
statistics and photographs. Whatever urge you feel appears to be toward verse or fiction. Well,
why not? Try it! You never know what you might do in writing until you dare.

Verse is largely its own reward.

Fiction, when it turns out successfully, fetches a double reward. It pays both in personal
satisfaction, as a form of creative art, and also as a marketable commodity, which always is
in great demand, and which can be cashed in to meet house rent and grocers' bills.

It is not within the scope of this little book--nor of its author's abilities--to attempt a
discussion of fiction methods. Too many other writers, better qualified to speak, have dealt
with fiction in scores of worth while volumes. Too many successful story tellers have related
their experiences and treated, with authority, of the short story, the novelette and the long
novel.

The purpose here can be only to urge that an attempt to write fiction is a logical step ahead
for any scribbler who has won a moderate degree of success in selling newspaper copy and magazine
articles. The eye that can perceive the dramatic and put it into non-fiction, the heart that
knows human interest, the understanding that can tell a symbol, the artist-instinct that can
catch characteristic colors, scents and sounds, all should aid a skilled writer of articles
to turn his energies, with some hope of achievement, toward producing fiction. The hand that
can fashion a really vivid article holds out promise of being able to compose a convincing
short story, if grit and ambition help push the pen.

The temptation to dogmatize here is strong, for the witness can testify that he has seen enviable
success crown many a fiction writer who, apparently, possessed small native talent for story
telling, and who won his laurels through sheer pluck and persistence. One of these pluggers
declares he blesses the rejection slip because it "eliminates so many quitters."

But of course it would be absurd to believe that any one with unlimited courage and elbow grease
could win at fiction, lacking all aptitude for it. Just as there are photographers who can
snap pictures for twenty years without producing a single happy composition (except by accident),
and reporters who never develop a "nose for news," there are story writers who can master all
the mechanics of tale-telling, through sheer drudgery, and yet continually fail to catch fiction's
spark of life. They fail, and shall always fail. Yet it is better to have strived and failed,
than never to have tried at all.

Why? For the good of their artists' consciences, in the first place. And, in the second, because
no writer can earnestly struggle with words without learning something about them to his trade
advantage.

A confession may be in order: your deponent testifies freely, knowing that anything he may
say may be used against him, that for years he has been a tireless producer of unsuccessful
fiction, yet he views his series of rebuffs in this medium calmly and even somewhat humorously.
For, by trade, he is a writer of articles, and he earnestly believes that the mental exercise
of attempting to produce fiction acts as a healthy influence upon a non-fictionist's style.
It stimulates the torpid imagination. It quickens the eye for the vivid touches, the picturesque
and the dramatic. It is a groping toward art.

"Art," writes one who knows, "is a mistress so beautiful, so high, so noble, that no phrases
can fitly characterize her, no service can be wholly worthy of her."

Perhaps such art as goes into the average magazine article is not likely to merit much high-sounding
praise. In our familiar shop talk we are prone to laugh about it. But even the most commercial-minded
of our brotherhood cherishes deep in his heart a craftsman's pride in work well done. So your
deponent testifies in his own defense that his copybook exercises in fiction, half of which
end in the wastebasket, seem well worth the pains that they cost, so long as they help keep
alive in his non-fiction bread-winners a hankering after (if not a flavor of) literary art.

And now must he apologize further for using a word upon which writers in these confessedly
commercial days appear to have set a taboo? Then a passage from "The Study of Literature" (Arlo
Bates) may serve for the apology:

"Life is full of disappointment, and pain, and bitterness, and that sense of futility in which
all of these evils are summed up; and yet were there no other alleviation, he who knows and
truly loves literature finds here a sufficient reason to be glad he lives. Science may show
a man how to live; art makes living worth his while. Existence to-day without literature would
be a failure and a despair; and if we cannot satisfactorily define our art, we at least are
aware how it enriches and ennobles the life of every human being who comes within the sphere
of its gracious influence."

So, we repeat: for the good of the artist's self-respect as well as for his craftsmanship it
is worth while to attempt fiction. If only as a tonic! If only to jog himself out of a rut
of habit!

If he succeeds with fiction he has bright hopes of winning much larger financial rewards for
his labor than he is likely to gain by writing articles. Non-fiction rarely brings in more
than one return upon the investment, but a good short story or novel may fetch several. First,
his yarn sells to the magazine. Then it may be re-sold ("second serial rights") to the newspapers.
Finally, it may fetch the largest cash return of all by being marketed to a motion picture
corporation as the plot for a scenario. In some instances even this does not exhaust all the
possibilities, for if British magazines and bookmen are interested in the tale, the "English
rights" of publication may add another payment to the total.

Not all of the features of this picture, however, should be painted in rose-colors. A disconcerting
and persistent rumor has it that what once was a by-product of fiction--the sale of "movie
rights"--is now threatening to run off with the entire production. The side show, we are warned,
is shaping the policy of the main tent. Which is to say that novelists and magazine fiction
writers are accused of becoming more concerned about how their stories will film than about
how the manuscripts will grade as pieces of literature. To get a yarn into print is still worth
while because this enhances its value in the eyes of the producers of motion pictures. But
the author's real goal is "no longer good writing, so much as remunerative picture possibilities."

We set this down not because we believe it true of the majority of our brother craftsmen, but
because evidences of such influences are undeniably present, and do not appear to have done
the art of writing fiction any appreciable benefit. If your trade is non-fiction, and you turn
to fiction to improve your art rather than your bank account, good counsel will admonish you
not to aim at any other mark than the best that you can produce in the way of literary art.
For there lies the deepest satisfaction a writer can ever secure--"art makes living worth his
while."

CHAPTER X

FOREVER AT THE CROSSROADS

Keep studying. Keep experimenting. Set yourself harder tasks. Never be content with what you
have accomplished. Match yourself against the men who can outplay you, not against the men
you already excel. Keep attempting something that baffles you. Discontent is your friend more
often than your enemy.

From the moment that he is graduated out of the cub reporter class, every writer who is worth
his salt is forever at the crossroads, perplexed about the next turn. Nowhere is smugness of
mind more deadly than in journalism. To progress you must forever scale more difficult ascents.
The bruises of rebuffs and the wounds of injured vanity will heal quickly enough if you keep
busy. Defeated or undefeated, the writer who always is trying to master something more difficult
than the work he used to do preserves his self-respect and the respect of his worth-while neighbors.
The fellow with the canker at his heart is not the battler but the envious shirker who is too
"proud" to risk a fall.

Swallow what you suppose to be your pride; it really is a false sense of dignity. Make a simple
beginning in the university of experience by learning with experiments what constitutes a "story"
and by drudging with pencil and typewriter to put that "story" into professional manuscript
form. Get the right pictures for it; then ship it off to market. If the first choice of markets
rejects you, try the second, the third, fourth, fifth and sixth--even unto the ninety-and-ninth.

Few beginners have even a dim notion of the great variety of markets that exist for free lance
contributions. There are countless trade publications, newspaper syndicates, class journals,
"house organs," and magazines devoted to highly specialized interests. Nearly all of these
publications are eager to buy matter of interest to their particular circles of readers. Every
business, every profession, every trade, every hobby has its mouthpiece.

Remember this when you are a beginner and the "big magazines" of general circulation are rejecting
your manuscripts with a clock-like regularity which drives you almost to despair. Try your
'prentice hand on contributions to the smaller publications. That is the surest way to "learn
while you earn" in free lancing. These humble markets need not cause you to sneer--particularly
if you happen to be a humble beginner.

Every laboratory experiment in manuscript writing and marketing, though it be only a description
of a shop window for a dry goods trade paper, or an interview with a boss plumber for the Gas
Fitter's Gazette, will furnish you with experience in your own trade, and set you ahead a step
on the long road that leads to the most desirable acceptances. The one thing to watch zealously
is your own development, to make sure that you do not too soon content yourself with achievements
beneath your capabilities. Start with the little magazines, but keep attempting to attain the
more difficult goals.

Meanwhile, you need not apologize to any one for the nature of your work, so long as it is
honest reporting and all as well written as you know how to make it. Stevenson, one of the
most conscientious of literary artists, declared in a "Letter to a Young Gentleman Who Proposes
to Embrace the Career of Art," that "the first duty in this world is for a man to pay his way,"
and this is one of your confessed purposes while you are serving this kind of journalistic
apprenticeship.

In short, so long as you keep moving toward something worth attaining, there is nothing to
worry about but how to keep from relapsing into smugness or idleness. The besetting temptation
of the free lance is to pamper himself. He is his own boss, can sleep as late as he likes,
go where he pleases and quit work when the temptation seizes him. As a result, he usually babies
himself and turns out much less work than he might safely attempt without in the least endangering
his health.

When he finds out later how assiduously some of the best known of our authors keep at their
desks he becomes a little ashamed of himself. Though they may not work, on the average, as
long hours as the business man, they toil far harder, and usually with few of the interruptions
and relaxations from the job that the business man is allowed. Four or five hours of intense
application a day stands for a great deal more expenditure of energy and thought than eight
or nine hours broken up with periods when one's feet are literally or metaphorically on the
desk and genial conversation is flowing. Most of the men and women who make a living out of
free lancing earn every blessed cent of it; and the amount upon which they pay an income tax
is, as a rule, proportioned rather justly to the amount of concentrated labor that they pour
into the hopper of the copy mill.

You who happen to have seen a successful free lance knock off work in mid-afternoon to play
tennis, or to skim away toward the country club in his new motor car are too likely to exclaim
that "his is the existence!" Forgetting, of course, the lonesome hours of more or less baffling
effort that he spent that day upon a manuscript before he locked up his workshop. And the years
he spent in drudgery, the bales of rejection slips he collected, the times that he had to pawn
his watch and stick pin to buy a dinner or to pay the rent of a hall bedroom.

Young Gentlemen Who Propose to Embrace the Career of Art might be shocked to learn--though
it would be all for their own good--that a great many writers who are generally regarded with
envy for their "luck" take the pains to follow the market notes in the Authors' League Bulletin,
the Bookman and the Editor Magazine with all the care of a contractor studying the latest news
of building operations. Not only do these writers read the trade papers of their calling; they
also, with considerable care, study the magazines to which they sell--or hope to sell--manuscripts.
They do not nearly so often as the novice make the faux pas of offering an editor exactly the
same sort of material that he already has printed in a recent or a current issue. They follow
the new books. They keep card indexes on their unmarketed manuscripts, and toil on as much
irksome office routine as a stock broker. A surprisingly large number of the "arrived" do not
even hold themselves above keeping note books, or producing, chiefly for the beneficial exercise
of it, essays, journals, descriptions, verse and fiction not meant to be offered for sale--solely
copybook exercises, produced for self-improvement or to gratify an impulse toward non-commercial
art.

For instances I can name a fiction writer who turns often to the essay form, but never publishes
this type of writing, and an editorial writer who, for the "fun of it" and the good he believes
it does his style, composes every year a great deal of verse. A group of six Michigan writers
publish their own magazine, a typewritten publication with a circulation of six.

These men are not content with their present achievements. They regard themselves always as
students who must everlastingly keep trying more difficult tasks to insure a steady progress
toward an unattainable goal. "Most of the studyin'," Abe Martin once observed, "is done after
a feller gets out of college," and these gray-haired exemplars are--as all of us ought to be--still
learning to write, and forever at the crossroads.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINIS

       *       *       *       *       *

