PAUL THE COURAGEOUS.

by

MABEL QUILLER-COUCH

1901 This e-text was prepared from a reprint of a version published in 1901.

CONTENTS.

   Chap.

   I.      A DISAPPOINTMENT.

   II.     HOW PAUL BORE IT.

   III.    PAUL'S HOPES RISE.

   IV.     THE REWARD OF OVER-CONFIDENCE.

   V.      THE RESCUE.

   VI.     A SLOW LEARNER.

   VII.    A TROUBLESOME PAIR OF BOOTS.

   VIII.   A MIDNIGHT SEARCH.

   IX.     THE OPEN WINDOW.

   X.      RUMOUR AND APPREHENSION.

   XI.     A TEST OF BRAVERY.

   XII.    STELLA'S ADVENTURE.

   XIII.   PAUL CONFESSES.

CHAPTER I.

A DISAPPOINTMENT.

Slewbury was a very fine town in its way; a little quiet and sleepy perhaps, as country towns
often are, but it was large and handsome, and beautifully situated on the side of a steep hill.
It had a grand market-place, a large town-hall where concerts were often given, and some well-kept
public gardens, of all of which the Slewbury people were very proud, and justly so.

But then, as Paul Anketell and his friends often remarked, "What was there for boys?"  There
was absolutely nothing.  No river, no sea, no mountains, or anything.  All there was for them
in the way of amusement was to go for walks and pick flowers, and wander about a field or two.
Certainly one could climb a tree, and whittle sticks or make whistles, but one could not be
doing that all the time.  No, Paul had long since come to the conclusion that Slewbury was
a miserable place in which to live; he hated it; and he could not understand why his father
had ever settled there.

When he was a man, he declared over and over again to Stella and Michael, he would have a house
close to a river, a mountain, and the sea, then he would have boats and rods, and a sailing
boat, so that he would never be hard up for something to do.  To a great extent Paul was right;
Slewbury was a dull, sleepy and prim old town, but boys ought to be able to make amusements
for themselves anywhere; they should have resources within themselves.  Paul had loads of toys,
and books, and tools, and a nice large garden to play in when the weather was fine.  But he
was a restless boy, full of longing for adventure and travel, and new sights, and sounds, and
experiences, and the happiest time of the whole year to him was the summer holiday when all
the family went away to the sea, or to some beautiful spot amongst the mountains.

True, the sea had always been the English sea--at least it had come to them at an English seaside
town--and the mountains had been either Welsh or Scotch mountains, but the three little Anketells
were true British children and were quite sure there could be no more beautiful mountains or
coasts anywhere in the world.

As soon as the Christmas holidays were over and school work had set in, the children began
to think of where they should go when the summer holidays came, and what they would do, and
many and many a discussion they had as to their favourite spots, and whether they should go
to an old favourite, or try a new one.  Plans were made, toys collected, and boxes packed long
before the happy day came, but it all added to the pleasure and excitement and importance of
the long-looked-forward-to event.

But dearly as they loved their own country, they had no objection to going further afield,
and when one day Mr. Anketell suggested that that year they should spend their holiday in Norway,
their excitement knew no bounds.  All previous travels and expeditions seemed to sink into
insignificance beside this.  To be actually going to live, and sleep, and eat, on board a real
steamer, and to cross the sea to another land seemed to them a splendid outlook.  Every book
and picture that could tell them anything about Norway was eagerly hunted up, all the Norwegian
fairy tales were read again and again, until Stella and Michael at last felt quite sure that
they would meet fairies, and dwarfs, and Vikings wherever they went.  They had no idea what
a Viking was like, but they thought it must be something between a giant and a knight, with
all the good qualities of both.

There never could have been a greater inducement to learn geography and history than this long-talked-of
trip.  All through the term Stella and Mike studied the map of Norway until they very nearly
knew it by heart, and when Paul came home for the Easter holidays they met him brimful of information
on the subject.  But Paul was not going to allow himself to be taught anything by 'the children,'
as he called them, and he soon had them sufficiently awed by his superior knowledge and loftier
understanding. He cared nothing for fairies, and quickly dashed all Stella's hopes of seeing
any, but he could teach them a great deal about the sports, and the shooting, and the other
attractions to be found there--at least, he thought he could--but his father and mother had
often to smile to themselves as they listened to the marvellous stories he told the children,
and sometimes they had to check him to set him right on various points, a thing he objected
to very much indeed.  For Paul had read so much, heard so much, and thought so much of the
marvels of that northern land, that nothing was too impossible and improbable for him to believe,
and one night, just as he was going to bed, a new idea came to him, an idea so splendid that
it prevented for a long time his going to sleep, and even after he was asleep he dreamed the
whole night through that he was having a terrific fight with a huge bear, and when he awoke
in the morning and thought that his dream might very likely prove a reality, he hardly knew
how to contain himself until he had made sure.

He tumbled into his bath and out again, and into his clothes in a shorter time than it usually
took him to make up his mind to get out of bed; and rushing downstairs two or three steps at
a time, burst like a tornado into the dining-room, where his father and mother had assembled
for prayers.

"I say," he shouted, without a thought as to whether he was interrupting any conversation--"oh,
I say, father, mother, aren't there big white bears in the Norwegian fjords, white Polar bears,
I mean?  And shall we see them, and if there are, may we go hunting when we are there? It would
be simply splendid; I'd rather go bear-hunting than anything; it would be grand to kill a bear."

He had been so eager to get down and satisfy himself on this point that he had not stayed to
dress himself properly, and he burst into the room with his collar unfastened, and his tie
missing altogether.  He was so eager, too, that he did not notice the anxiety on his parents'
faces, or in their manner, and only wondered why they looked at him so sadly, and without answering
any of his burning questions.

At last he grew impatient.  "Father, do tell me, shall you take your guns with you? and mayn't
I have one?"

"Hush, hush, dear, do not be so excitable!  There are no bears to shoot where we thought of
going, nor wild animals of any kind, you may be quite sure, or we should not have dreamed of
taking Stella and Michael there for their holidays."

"But, mother, dear, they would be quite safe with father and me to take care of them.  Do let's
go to a part where there are bears!  I'd give anything to bring home a fur rug with a great
head on it, and say I'd shot it myself."

"Paul, do not talk any more now.  Father is dreadfully worried, and has a very great deal to
think of.  You understand, dear.  Now fasten your collar and go to your place, I hear the servants
coming in to prayers." And Mrs. Anketell stooped and kissed him.  "Pray God to help dear father
in his troubles," she whispered, "and make us all brave to bear our share."

Paul went to his seat quietly, wondering very much what it all meant. Surely his father had
plenty of courage to face anything and everything, and he knew that he himself had.  As for
his mother and Stella--well, mother did not need to be brave with father to take care of her,
and Stella was only a girl, and no one would expect much of her; as for Michael, he was only
six, a mere baby.  He sat in his chair puzzled, and wondering, and coming no nearer a solution
of his mother's meaning.  But Paul was soon to learn it, and he never forgot the hour which
followed, when the servants had left the room, and he and his father and mother were seated
alone at the table.

The urn was hissing and singing, the sweet spring sunshine shone in on the silver on the table,
on the bright covers, and on the big bowl of yellow daffodils on the old oak sideboard.  A
deep consciousness of all these details, and of the beauty of the scene, was impressed on his
mind then-- though at the time he was wholly unaware of the fact--and through all his after
life remained with him so vividly that he could recall every detail of the scene, and the look
of everything in the low, familiar room as it was that morning.  He could recall, too, the
unusual gravity of his parents, the anxious face of his mother, and how the tears sprang to
her eyes when his father looked up and noticed her anxiety and tried to cheer her.

"Darling, you must not take it so hardly," he said tenderly; "things might be much worse. 
With some self-denial and economy we shall weather this storm, as we did many when first we
were married."  Then they smiled at each other, and Paul saw that they grew happier again at once.

"Shall I tell the boy about it now?" asked Mr. Anketell.  "He must know sooner or later."

Mrs. Anketell looked at Paul for a moment with an expression on her face that he could not
read, but he thought she looked sorry about something, and very, very sad; then she looked
away at her husband and nodded assent.

"Paul, my son," said his father, turning to him and laying his hand gently on the boy's arm,
"I want you to listen to me, and give me your whole attention.  You are old enough now to be
our confidant in many things, and of course you will understand that what we may confide in
you we trust to your honour to respect as a confidence, and to speak about to no one."

Paul said, "Yes, father," in rather a frightened voice.  He knew that it was considered 'sneakish'
to tell a secret, but he had never dreamed that secrets could be such very solemn things.

"Well, my boy, we have met with a very great misfortune, and have lost a large sum of money,
and from being a comparatively wealthy man, I have suddenly become a comparatively poor one.
If only I myself were concerned I would not care, but for your mother's sake, and for the sake
of you children, I am very much troubled and grieved.  I am afraid we shall all have to give
up many things, and do without many things, and save in every way we can."

Paul had grown very grave, and for a moment he sat thinking, wondering what he could do; he
was very anxious to help.  "Father," he cried, at last, "I know one way we can save a good
bit of money every year: I can leave school, and I could go out to work.  I know Farmer Vinning
would give me a job; he said he wished he had a boy half as spry as I am, and-- and then I
could bring home my wages every week to mother."  And for the moment Paul could not see what
hardship people found in being economical. But his father only shook his head and laughed.

"It would be poor economy to take you away from school for a long time yet, my son," he said.
Then, seeing how Paul's face fell, he went on: "The things we can do for the greatest advantage
to others and ourselves, too, are not always the things we would like best to do.  To be a
real help and comfort to us, you must stick at your work as hard as you can, and make the best
use possible of the next few years.  Then you will, I hope, be able not only to help your mother,
but to give them all a home if they should need one."

"But I want to help now," said Paul, dolefully.  To work harder at school seemed a very poor
way of saving money.

"You will be able to, dear, at once, too.  We shall all have to give up something, many of
the things we care for most.  You can help by giving up cheerfully," said his mother.

"Oh, that's nothing," said Paul, still doleful.

"It means more than you can imagine now," she said, softly; "a trouble bravely born and smiled
over is lightened for everyone of half its weight."

"Can't I give up my music;" Paul burst in on his mother's speech, too eager to notice what
she was saying.

Mrs. Anketell laughed in spite of her sadness.  "We are very anxious to give you all as good
an education as is possible, and for the sake of the future you must not give up any of it
yet.  No, what we shall have to give up will be our pleasures.  The horses must go, all but
Nell for father, and Jumbo for the hard work.  Some of the servants will have to go, too, I
am afraid," she said, looking at her husband, and once more the anxious look came back to her eyes.

"I can clean boots," said Paul, "and I can wash the dog-cart."

"Very good," said Mr. Anketell, encouragingly.  "You can learn to work in the garden, too.
A boy of your age can give a good deal of help there."

Now, if there was one thing more than another that Paul hated, it was gardening, and his response
to this suggestion was not hearty. Mrs. Anketell was silent for a few moments, then she said
with, Paul thought, but little concern, "We shall have to give up the Norwegian cruise, of
course, John; but that is only a trifle compared with other things."

Paul's heart seemed to leap right up into his throat, and then sank right down, down, as, it
seemed to him, no one's heart could ever have sunk before.  He could not believe but that there
was some mistake, that his ears were deceiving him.  "What did you say, mother?" he cried.
"Give up the Norwegian cruise!  Oh, no, no, we couldn't give that up!  We must go to Norway;
we can save in other ways--I'll begin at once.  I won't want any new clothes for a year, and
I'll go back to school without a hamper,-- but we must go to Norway."

"I see you have already begun to save your neckties," said his father mischievously; but Paul
was far too much upset to laugh at anything.

"Father, we must go!" he cried.  "We have counted on it for weeks, and had planned everything,
and--"

"So had we, Paul, and it will be a keen disappointment to us, keener than you can understand;
but it has to be, and we must put a brave face on it. This is the first trial, my boy.  It
is very easy to talk of trials, and how we will face them; but it is the actual facing them,
not the talking, that tries our courage and shows what we are made of.  It requires no courage
to give up what we care little or nothing about.  Be as brave as you know how to be over this
disappointment, my boy, and don't add to your mother's troubles by grumbling and complaining.
We feel terribly any pain that this loss may bring to you children, and to know you are fretting
and grumbling will make it a hundred times harder for us."

"Of course we will go somewhere for the summer holidays," said Mrs. Anketell gently.  "Stella
and Michael will need a change before winter, and father needs one too, I am sure."

"Not as much as you do, dear," he said, tenderly, looking sadly at her pale face.

She shook her head and smiled.  "I don't deny I shall be glad of one; in fact we shall all
be better for it," she said; "but it must be a much less expensive one than the one we planned."

Here was another grievance to add to his list.  Paul's feelings were hurt that he had been
left out as not requiring a change, and altogether the blow which he had had was too much for
him to bear well at the first shock; so that he felt a very unhappy and ill-used boy as he
left the table and made his way slowly up to the nursery.

CHAPTER II.

HOW PAUL BORE IT.

Stella and Michael had finished their breakfast and were playing together. Michael was standing
up in the high window-seat, grasping a long pole with a curtain hook at the end of it, with
which he made frantic but futile efforts to land Stella, who was dashing about in a perfectly
break-neck fashion in a box on the floor.

"We are playing at being in Norway," he shouted, when he caught sight of his elder brother.
"Stella has been wrecked, and is trying to get to land in a boat, but the waves are dashing
it on the rocks so hard, she will be wrecked before I can land her, if I don't take care."

Here Stella banged her box against the wall, and rebounded again. "I have got to catch her
with the boat hook, and then I shall drag her boat--"  But Stella had caught sight of Paul's
face, and abandoning her boat to the mercy of the waves, she walked out of her apparently perilous
position and caught Paul's arm.

"What is the matter?" she asked anxiously.  "They haven't made the holidays shorter, have they?"
This was always one of her greatest fears.

"Don't be silly!" snapped Paul crossly.  "As if they could.  Why, if they were to try to I'd
refuse to go."

Stella looked awed, but anxious.  "Do tell me, Paul, what is it! Is father cross with you?"

At these words a recollection of his father's gentleness and trouble came over him, and he
felt a little ashamed and sorry.  "No, no," he said, sinking into a chair by the table, and
letting his head fall forward on his arms, "I wouldn't mind that so much if--if, oh, it's awfully
hard lines, it--"

Stella waited patiently.  She was a sensible little woman, and not such a baby as Paul chose
to consider her.  Because she had meals with Michael in the nursery, that she might be a companion
for him, Paul was in the habit of looking on her as of Michael's age, and understanding.  He
forgot that at her age he had considered himself old enough to quit the nursery meals for the
dining-room, and had done so too.  Stella was four years older than her younger brother, and
there was a great deal of the little mother in the way she cared for him.  But Paul, boy-like,
saw only that she joined in Michael's games, and was apparently quite content, so he rather
despised her.

"What is it, Paul?  Do tell me!" she pleaded at last.  She longed to put her arms about him,
and try to comfort him; but since he had been at school he had grown, as does many a boy, to
object to endearments, and to think them something to be ashamed of.  Her heart grew heavy
with a nameless fear.  Michael, too, ceased to complain of Stella's having left her boat and
her game, and looked with wondering eyes at his grief-stricken elder brother.  It was so unusual
to see Paul cast down like this.

"We aren't going to Norway, after all," said Paul--he spoke gruffly to try to conceal the sob
in his throat,--"and I call it beastly hard lines. It isn't as though it would cost so very
much more than any other holiday, and father knows we have never been so far before, and how
we were looking forward to it, and that I--"

"Not going to Norway!" cried Stella, in an accent almost of relief. "Oh, is that all?  I was
afraid something dreadful had happened." She could not help the feeling, she had been so frightened
by a nameless fear she could scarcely have put into words.  But when the first relief was over
the disappointment came home to her keenly.  Paul had painted in such glowing colours all the
joys, and adventures, and wonderful things which lay in store, that that trip was no ordinary
one for them. It was the great event of their lifetime.  It was to have been one long experience
of travel by day and night, by sea and land, and of adventure with strange and wild creatures--Vikings,
wolves, reindeers, Valkyries, giants, ice-mountains, and caves, fairies and fairies' homes.
Stella had never been able to make up her mind as to what Vikings and Valkyries would be like,
but they were all one delightful thrilling jumble of wild animals, giants, and strange people,
such as ordinary persons never set eyes on.

"Oh, Paul, it can't be really true?" she cried, in great distress.

"Oh, you don't care," snapped Paul, crossly, "so don't pretend.  You can't care, so don't put
it on.  You said 'Is that all?' as if it were nothing. But of course one can't expect much
from a girl.  I believe you were really frightened at going and are glad we are not."

Stella's lip quivered.  "I was not frightened," she said stoutly, "and I am not glad; but I
thought at first something dreadful had happened to father or mother--I didn't know what, but
something dreadful."

Paul snorted contemptuously.  "I wouldn't have minded anything else as much as this," he said
loftily, putting on a very superior air.

"If you had your leg cut off you couldn't never go to fight wolves," said Michael soberly.
He had been standing, boat-hook in hand, listening to the conversation.  To him to have a leg
cut off seemed the most dreadful thing that could happen.

"But, Paul, why can't we go?" asked Stella, her brother's injustice fading at once from her
mind.  "Do you know?"

"Yes, I know.  Father told me all about it.  He has lost a heap of money, and we've got to
get rid of most of the horses and the servants, and--" He stopped suddenly in alarm; he was
already abusing that confidence his father had placed in him.  Nurse was in the adjoining room
and the door between was open.  Supposing she had heard, what should he do?  He could never
undo his foolish speech!  He peeped at her in a state of great alarm.  No, she was dusting
under the bed, and could not have heard,--at least he thought not.  Stella and Michael must
be bound over to secrecy. "Don't you ever dare to tell any one what I have told you!" he said
sternly.  "Promise, honour bright.  Mind Mike, if you do, I'll--I'll-- well, you'll soon find
out who comes after sneaks!"

"Be quiet, Paul.  How dare you?  You are not to frighten him like that," cried Stella indignantly.
"Mikey is not a sneak, and you ought not to tell stories about bogies coming.  You know there
aren't any."

"Frighten!" retorted Paul; "he must be a coward if that frightens him," but he had the grace
to look ashamed.

"You meant to frighten him," said Stella stoutly; "you know you did, and you are very mean."

Paul tried to turn the conversation.  He felt ashamed of himself, and did not like the feeling
at all.  "Well, if you want to know why we are not going to Norway, you had better go and ask
mother.  I mustn't tell you what father told me, so it is no use to try to make me."

"Is mother--is mother unhappy about it, Paul?"

"I should just think she is, and father too."

"Did daddy cry?" asked Michael, his big eyes growing bigger with awe.

"Cry!  Men don't cry; but mother did."

At which Stella's little heart overflowed with love, and her eyes filled with tears.  "I'm
going to see her," she said tearfully.  "She mustn't be sad.  I'll tell her it doesn't matter
a bit, we don't mind not going. I don't want to go for a cruise.  I'd quite as soon stay at
home, and--I can take care of Michael, or I can dust, or--or--"  The rest of her sentence was
lost as she rushed out of the nursery and down to her mother's room.

"Mother!" she cried, flinging herself into her arms, and clasping her round the neck.  "Mummy,
dear, I am so sorry; but we don't mind the least little bit.  We don't want to have any holiday
at all this year, only don't you cry any more, mummy darling," and she kissed her again and
again, striving all she knew to make up to her for the trouble which had befallen them.

CHAPTER III.

PAUL'S HOPES RISE.

A few days later Paul returned to school, and Stella and Michael settled down to lessons at
home with their governess.  They missed their elder brother very much, for though he domineered
over them a good deal, they looked up to him as a hero, and a very splendid fellow, and they
felt sad and lonely when he went back to school.

At first Paul, too, felt very miserable, and out of spirits.  When it came to leaving his home
he felt more real sorrow for the trouble they were in than he had at all, and real shame for
having behaved so crossly and unkindly about his disappointment, and he became filled with
a great desire to work well, and make up in that way for his past behaviour. So the weeks sped
by; half term came and went, and early in July came a letter from Stella.  They were to go
away for a summer holiday, after all, she wrote excitedly, and evidently impressed with the
idea that she was conveying wonderful news.  They were to go to Dartmoor.  Father had taken
rooms in a big farmhouse on the moors, and it was lovely; there were horses and wagons, and
hay-fields and orchards, and big tors where they could go for picnics.

"Dartmoor!" exclaimed Paul, as he thrust the letter into his pocket. "What a place!  What is
there for me to do?  Just go for walks with the kids, I s'pose; I'd quite as soon stay at home."
And he sniffed scornfully, and went about all day in a bad temper.

"Dartmoor is a ripping fine place!" Paul had confided his woes to his chum, Dennis Rogers,
and that was the response he met with.  "I only wish I was going there this summer.  We were
there two years ago; oh, my, it was jolly!  I wonder what part you are going to, and if you'll
be anywhere near the convict prison."

Paul pricked up his ears.

"The convict prison," he cried eagerly.  "I'd forgotten that that was down there.  Oh, I do
hope we go quite close to it.  I'd like awfully to see the convicts.  Did you ever see any
of them?  Were you near them?"

"See them!  I should just think so.  I saw a convict's funeral once, too; the coffin was carried
by the convicts all in their prison clothes, with whacking great broad arrows over them."

"What were they like?  Did they look like murderers?  Did you see any of those that are in
Madame Tussard's?" asked Paul, full of curiosity.

"Some of them were pretty bad-looking, but the rest were just like ordinary people.  You'd
never think from their faces, that they were murderers, and burglars, and forgers, and all
that sort of thing. I felt awfully sorry for them, but my mater hurried me away, and wouldn't
let me have a good look at them.  I know one thing, I would have helped them to escape if they
had tried to."

"I do hope we shall be in that part," said Paul, excitedly.  "I'd give anything to see the
prisoners and the prison.  I say, did any escape while you were there?"

"No, 'twas hard luck.  One got away in the winter after we left, and wasn't caught for a day
or two; it was foggy, and that helped him, of course.  Then there is otter-hunting in some
of the rivers," went on Dennis, tiring of the subject of the convicts.  "Oh, it's an awfully
fine place!  There are wild cattle on the moor too, and they are no end of excitement; they
go for you like anything if you rile them.  You are in luck's way, old chap.  I wish I was
going too, instead of to some silly place in Norway where there's nothing to do when you get
there but walk. I hate being shut up in a stuffy steamer too.  I'm ill all the time--so are
most of the people--and I don't see where the fun comes in. But my people are set on it, so
I suppose I've got to go.  I don't want to, a bit."

"Don't you!" said Paul sarcastically, all his old disappointment returning.  "I wish we could
change places then.  I think Dartmoor is awfully tame compared with Norway."

And then a hot discussion followed, each boy sticking up, of course, for his own favourite place.

But when, three weeks later, Paul travelled homewards, his disappointment was quite forgotten,
and he was in the best of spirits, for it is beyond the power of any ordinary boy to feel morose
and sulky the day his school breaks up and he goes home for his summer holiday; and when the
family joined him at Slewbury station,--all except his father, who was to follow later,--and
they journeyed on together, he was the life of the whole merry party.

"Mother," he exclaimed with sudden recollection, after the home news had been listened to and
school news told, "what is the name of the place we are going to?  Shall we be near the convict
prison?"

"Oh, I hope not," cried Stella, her pretty blue eyes becoming round with dismay, "I should
hate to be near convicts, I should be afraid of them. Supposing any of them run away, and come
to Moor Farm, whatever shall we do?"

"We are not any very great distance from the prison, I am afraid," Mrs. Anketell answered,
"though it is further than either of us could walk.  But you know, dear, the poor creatures
are well guarded and we shall be well guarded; and I want you to feel nothing but pity for
them, my Stella.  You must be a brave little woman.  Many of the poor creatures there are quiet
and harmless, and would not hurt a little child."

"I am jolly glad we are so near," said Paul delightedly; and he talked so much about it that
Stella soon began to share his excitement, and lose much of her nervousness, while Michael
sat very still and quiet, listening to all that was being said.  But presently they grew tired
of that subject, and turned their attention to the country through which they were hurrying,
and the quaint little stations at which they stopped, where the one porter shouted such odd
names in so funny a voice that they could not help laughing; then on they went again through
rich yellow cornfields, past streams where men were fishing, and then they saw the high hills
in the distance, standing so solitary on the great browny-grey moor.

It was hard to picture a big, gloomy prison anywhere near such a lovely land, or hundreds of
sinful, unhappy men shut in behind high grey walls, seeing nothing of the beauty about them.

"Mother, mother, there's Row Tor, and there's Brown Willy, and there--"

"And here is our station," said Mrs. Anketell, smiling, getting up to collect baskets and parcels,
"and there is Farmer Minards himself with his car and a cart for the luggage."  Then out they
got, the only passengers for that little station, while the people in the train stared at them,
enviously the children thought, and the people on the platform looked with curiosity and interest
at them, and their big pile of luggage. Then Stella and Michael and Mrs. Anketell were shown
in to the funny little car, which was called the 'pill-box,' but Paul asked if he might ride
up in the front of the cart on which the luggage was piled, and was allowed to, and a few minutes
later they started off in procession down the road on their way to Moor Farm.

The boy who drove the cart was shy at first, and sat very stolid and stiff beside Paul apparently
absorbed in guiding his horse, but Paul was not troubled with shyness, or anything else but
curiosity, and after he had looked at the horse and cart, and everything about him, his tongue
refused to be silent any longer, and a stream of questions was poured into the shy boy's ears.
As they were nearly all questions he could answer he did not mind, and replied very patiently,
and soon grew more at ease, especially as some of Paul's questions made him laugh too, and
feel how much more he knew than 'the young master,' which is always a comfortable feeling.

"And that is Cawsand Beacon, isn't it?" said Paul at last, pointing to a big, big hill, in
the near distance.  He spoke in an off-hand casual sort of way, and was rather proud of his
knowledge until the boy laughed.

"No, sir, that there is Crockern Tor.  Cawsan' Baycon be right 'way 'tother side of Dartymoor,
right 'long up in the narth, Oke'ampton way."

"Is Crockern Tor as high as Cawsand Beacon?" asked Paul, more humbly.

"I reckon not, not by a brave bit," said the boy, "but it's a purty place to go to."

They were driving now along a rough road across the moor itself; the 'pill-box' had outstripped
them and was out of sight.  "Let's drive on the grass," said Paul suddenly, "t'would be ever
so much jollier than jolting along like this.  Why don't you drive across there to the farm,"
pointing to a stretch of smooth, green turf, "instead of going all around by this road?"

The boy laughed again.  "I reckon 'twouldn't be no quicker by time us had hauled the 'orse
and cart out.  That there green is'n' no turf 't'all, 'tis a bog."

Paul's attention was riveted in a moment.  "That isn't one of the bogs that suck people right
down, and kill them, is it?" he asked excitedly.

"That's one on 'em," answered the boy; "that isn't so bad as some. Anybody small and light
might get across by keeping right 'way out to the very edge if they was quick, but a horse
and cart wouldn't stand no chance.  Don't you never go trying of it, sur, you'd be swallowed
up in no time.  Gee, wug, Lion," he called to the lazy horse.  "Would 'ee like to drive a bit,
sur?"

But Paul's thoughts were far away.  "Anybody light and small might get across," he was repeating
to himself, and he made up his mind that somebody light and small would try.  After all, Dartmoor
wasn't such a bad place, he admitted already.  He would have something, anyhow, to tell the
boys when he got back.  Something worth telling too.  He thought there would be few with a
better story than his to tell.

CHAPTER IV.

THE REWARD OF OVER CONFIDENCE.

For a day or two their new surroundings kept the children fully occupied in and about the farmyard,
and the barns and orchards. Everything was new to them and delightful, from the pump in the
yard, and the chickens, to the horses and wagons, the lofts with their smell of hay, the sweet-smelling
wood-ricks, the cool dairy, the 'pound' where the cider was made.  Then there were sheep-shearing,
rat-hunting and countless other joys.  But before very long the desire to wander further in
search of adventure grew strong in Paul's breast.  The children were left wonderfully free
in those days, for, owing to their straitened means, Mrs. Anketell had determined to do without
a nurse, and she was necessarily obliged to leave them much to themselves, and trust them not
to get into any serious mischief.

But in the holidays no boy is quite as wise as he should be. Certainly Paul was not, when he
determined to go and find out for himself if that morass was really as dangerous as Muggridge
had said. Muggridge was the boy who had driven the cart, and Paul had begun to have a galling
feeling that Muggridge had bean treating him as though he were a baby, which of course was
a thing not to be tolerated for a moment. He must show him that he was a public-school boy,
and had already seen more of the world than Muggridge was ever likely to.

It was Saturday morning, and every one in the house, excepting the children, seemed to be unusually
busy and occupied.  Stella and Michael sauntered out into the yard, and hung on the gate, swinging.
Paul strolled out presently and joined them, but the amusement was not to his liking, so he
went outside and stood in the road, and looked at the country.

"Let's go for a walk on the moor," he said presently; "there is nothing to do here, and it's
looking jolly out there."

Stella and Michael, only too glad to be invited by their elder brother to join him, followed
at once with a shout of joy.  Paul looked back several times to make sure no one was watching
them, but there were no windows at that end of the house, and everyone was busy.  When they
had gone a little distance they got off the road on to the soft turf at the side, and began
running about here, there, and everywhere.  "You had better see where you are going," said
Paul; "they say there are morasses here that suck one in until one is gone right down, head
and all."

Stella looked about her with wondering eyes, and seized Michael's hands. "What do they look
like, Paul?  Are they pools?"

"I don't know," said Paul, "I should think so."

"There aren't any here, then," she said eagerly, and with a sigh of relief, letting Mike go
again.  "I don't see any, do you, Paul?"

"Muggridge said there were, and that is why they go round by that silly old road; but I don't
believe him, and I'm going to find out for myself. Perhaps he thinks I will swallow everything
he chooses to tell me, and is trying to see how much he can take me in."

"Did he tell you not to go there?" asked Stella, nervously.

"No, he did not tell me any such thing.  Why should he?  I should like to see him dare to order
me about.  He just said that I had better not; but that was nothing.  I'm sure he was only
trying to gull me.  He said anybody light could get across if they kept to the edge, and nobody
could be much lighter than I am."

"But, Paul, you won't go?" pleaded Stella, anxiously.  "Don't go, Paul! Please don't! you might
be killed."

"Killed!" with terrific scorn.  "You girls are such babies you are afraid of your lives to
do anything for fear you will be killed, or hurt."

"I am not," said Stella proudly.  "You would be frightened though if you got into one of those
marshes, and were sucked down."

Paul grew more and more nettled, and defiant.  "Anyhow, I am going right away at once to look
for one, and that'll show if I am afraid or not. You babies can stay where you are."  And he
walked boldly forward.

Stella bore the taunt bravely, though her feelings were cruelly hurt, too deeply hurt to allow
her to follow her brother and appear to be thrusting her society on him.  So she remained where
he had left her, tightly grasping Mike's hand as though to make sure that he at any rate came
to no harm.  For nearly half-an-hour Paul wandered about without finding himself on the dangerous
spot, and the more he searched the more convinced he became that Muggridge had been laughing
at him.

"Won't Farmer Minards be pleased when Paul tells him," said Michael after a long and anxious
silence, and Paul had wandered about in all directions in safety.  But before he had finished
his sentence they saw Paul stagger as though he had stepped on something which had given way
beneath his feet, try to recover himself, and stagger again.  Stella jumped up instinctively
and ran to him; even then she did not dream of the real danger he was in, until, as she flew
towards him, his cry of "Help, help!" reached her.  "Keep back'" he shrieked, as she came close.
"It's the bog! My feet are stuck, I can't free them, Stella; what can I do?  Help, help, help!"

Stella's heart stood still with fright.  Paul was in the mud; it would suck him down till it
closed over his head, unless some one saved him, and there was no time to be lost.  What could
she do, without a single creature there to help her?  "Mike," she called, "run home as fast
as ever you can, and tell them to come at once.  Paul is in the bog, and it is sucking him
down."  The tears were trickling fast down her face, and at sight of them Michael began to cry too.

"Help, help!" called Paul again, then suddenly burst into tears.  The mud was half-way up his
legs now, and his attempts to free himself seemed only to hasten his fate.  Inspiration came
to Stella; in another moment she had torn off her big over-all apron.  It was strong and wide.
If Paul could reach it she might be able to pull him out by it.   She threw it towards him,
but, in her anxiety, threw it to one side; she tried again, but the breeze carried it away.
The third time it reached him, and he caught it by the tips of his fingers, but the effort
to reach it dragged him forward, and swaying, staggering, in his endeavours to steady himself
he dragged poor Stella beyond her powers of resistance, and in another moment she was in the
morass too, and, losing her balance, fell forward on her hands and knees.  Their condition
now was truly appalling.  Paul grew frantic with alarm.  "Pick yourself up, Stella, or crawl
to the edge; you are quite close."

"I can't," she said in an awe-stricken whisper.  She was too frightened to cry now; the fearfulness
of the fate which seemed to await them partially numbed her senses.  "I can't, Paul," she said
in laboured tones; "the more I try the worse it is.  I think we had better keep as still as
we can. Poor mummie," she added presently, and at the thought of her mother's grief her tears
did flow, but she kept quite still, though she saw that her hands had disappeared entirely,
and her arms were fast being sucked down.

CHAPTER V.

THE RESCUE.

Paul and Stella never forgot, to the end of their lives, that awful time of waiting, when they
were face to face with death, their hearts filled with agony at the sight of each other in
the clutches of that fearful morass, and at the thought of their parents' grief.

All around them stretched the great brown moor, weird and lonely looking, except for where,
less than a mile away, Paul could see the chimneys of Moor Farm smoking, and the sunlight shining
on the windows.  Stella had fallen with her back to the house, and all she could see was the
moor, and the hills in the distance.  She could not see even if any one was coming to their
assistance.  "Mike must have lost himself," she thought, "they are so long--"

But at that moment Paul broke in on her thought.  "They are coming," he shouted.  "Help! help!
help!" and he waved his handkerchief excitedly. Stella bowed her head and prayed, she hardly
knew then in what words, but to ask God's help, and to thank Him; she knew He would understand.

Three or four persons came running towards them with ropes and planks, while behind came another
and larger group with their mother amongst them. Stella could only hear their voices, and do
as they bade her.

"How be 'ee going to get the little maid, now?" said a voice she recognised as Farmer Minards';
"'er's the awkwardest of the two to get 'old on, by a long way.  Hold up yer 'ead, missie dear,
don't let yer face touch the mud."

Stella raised her head as high as she could, but she was so exhausted that it fell forward
again, and she lost consciousness altogether.

"I can save the boy," said a voice, "if you'll give me a rope." In a moment more a deftly thrown
lasso quivered in the air, and falling over Paul encircled his waist; then, by the aid of planks
thrown across the margin, long, strong arms soon dragged him into safety, and he lay trembling,
but safe, on solid ground, with his mother's arms around him, and nothing but words of sympathy,
and love, and kindness greeting him instead of the sound scolding he so richly deserved.  But
she saw he was in no state to be scolded then.

A few moments later another shout went up.  Stella was safe.  Paul raised himself, and called
to her as they carried her towards him, but no answer to his joyful cry came from the limp
and senseless little form lying in Farmer Minards' arms.  Her face was as white as the clouds
above, her eyes were closed.  Paul gave a great cry of fear.  "Stella, Stella," he called in
agony.  "Stella, speak!  She tried to save me, and--and it is all my fault, and I've killed
her."  And he burst into an agony of tears, for he really thought his sister was dead.

Mrs. Anketell, who had run to her little daughter, quickly came back to him.  "She is not dead,"
she said soothingly, great tears of thankfulness in her own eyes.  "Thank God, Paul.  You cannot
thank Him enough for having spared you both.  She has fainted, that is all, dear.  Act like
a man now, and be ready to comfort her when she recovers.  This is bound to be a terrible shock
to her."

Mrs. Anketell was herself faint and trembling from the shock and the anxiety; her hands shook
visibly as she laid them on Paul's hot brow, and her head swam so she feared she would have
fainted too, but for the sake of others she made a great effort to control herself, and succeeded.

They laid the little maid on the grass, and loosened her clothes. The sight of her little hands
hanging so helplessly, with the brown mud dripping off them, and her little white feet, for
her shoes and stockings had come off in the mud, and her dead-white face, brought tears to
many an eye there, and Paul himself turned over on the grass and wept bitterly, without shame,
before them all.

"Better let him have his cry out," said the gentleman who had thrown the lasso, and who proved
to be a doctor; "it will relieve him and do him good.  Now, you men, some of you carry him
carefully home, he is not fit to walk; and I will carry her, if you will allow me," he said,
stooping over Stella.  "I think they had better be got to bed as quickly as possible.  And
you, can you walk, do you think?" he added, kindly, to Mrs. Anketell.  She nodded in reply;
she was too much agitated to speak. "Take my arm, please, if it would be any support to you."
His quick eye noted the strain she was enduring, and he quietly did all he could to cheer and
distract her thoughts from the contemplation of the awful tragedy which might have befallen
two of her children.

So the sad little procession wended its way across the sunny moor again, and Paul, all the
way, was saying over and over again to himself he would never, never again try to do what he
had been told not to.  He would be good, obedient, and humble, he would take care of Stella,
and his mother, and Mike.   And that night when his mother came to see him the last thing before
going to bed herself, he told her the whole story from beginning to end.  "Stella is awfully
plucky, for a girl," he added at the conclusion of his tale.  "She was afraid for me to try
to cross, but she didn't seem frightened when she was being sucked down by the mud, she never
screamed at all."

"Stella has far more courage than you think," said his mother gravely, "and I hope you will
never again jibe at the cowardice of girls; it only shows that you do not know what real courage
is.  Good muscles do not always mean true courage.  You must learn that it is often far more
brave to stand by and not do a thing, knowing all the time you will be called a coward for
it, than it is to be daring and defiant, as you were to-day. Obedience in all things, pleasant
or unpleasant, is true courage, and that is what you lacked to-day, and so brought misery and
pain to many, none of whom you consider as wise or brave as yourself."

Paul certainly felt the greatest shame as he realised how foolish he must seem in the eyes
of everybody, and he certainly suffered the keenest remorse when he saw how ill Stella was;
it was Stella who suffered most from his wrong-doing.  For many days she was very, very ill,
and it was some time before she was quite her old merry self again.

CHAPTER VI.

A SLOW LEARNER.

A few days later Mr. Anketell arrived for a fortnight's holiday, and all the sad story had
to be told to him.  He was terribly grieved and upset-- grieved to see his bright, happy Stella
so wan and quiet, and troubled sorely to think Paul had so far forgotten himself and his duty
to the younger ones as to place their lives in danger.

"You cannot expect Michael to look up to you," said his father sternly. "And you are setting
him a very bad example.  I shall have to send for one of the maids to come and look after you
all, for we cannot have such things happening!  I will not have your mother so worried and
frightened, and the children's lives jeopardised by your disobedience and foolhardiness."

And the maid would have been sent for had not Paul given his word to be more careful and better
behaved in future.

Another person with whom Mr. Anketell was very irate was Farmer Minards; he blamed him greatly
for leaving so dangerous a spot unguarded in any way, and he spoke so plainly about it that
that very same day a man went out with a cartload of white hurdles to place around the margin
of the morass. ^ 21 The fact that the remark Dio Chrysostom (Or. 38, p. 148 R.) on the dispute of the
Athenians and the Lacedaemonians υπέρ τής προπομπείας to the party in Plataea, refers results
from (Lucian) Έρωτες 18: ως περί προπομπείας αγωνιούμενοι Πλαταιάσιν. Also, the sophist Irenäos
wrote (Suidas ud W.) and Hermogenes (id. II p. 373 Walz) are as speech material Αυηναίοι καί
Λακεδαιμόνιοι περί τής προπομπείας κατά τά Μηδικά (Notice of Wilamowitz). ^ 22 There have the
two of them obtained for Kibyra in Phrygia (CIG 5882), issued by κοινόν τής Ελλάδος by δόγμα
τού Πανελληνίου and Magnesia on Mseander (CIA III, 16). In both is the well-Hellenic origin of
the relevant entities, together with other merits highlighted by the Greeks. Characteristic are also
the letters of which these Panhellenen a well-deserved for their community man at his home church
in Aezani Phrygia, to the Emperor Pius and to give to the Hellenes in Asia insgemein (CIG
3832, 3833, 3834). --------------------------------------- If the imperial rule in the whole
wide Empire, the devastation of a twenty-year civil war vorfand and in many places the consequences
of the same were never completely got over so well is not an area affected so hard as has been
the Greek peninsula. Fate had it so happened that the three great Decisive battles of this era,
Pharsalia, Philippi, action on their soil or its coast have been beaten, and the military operations,
which both parties same ushered their victims of human life and human happiness were above
all required. Even Plutarch told his older father, as the officers of Antony citizens forced
by Chaeronea, had slaves and beasts of burden because they no longer had her last of grain
on their own shoulders to the next port of drag for shipment for the army, and as then, was to leave
just as the second transport, the message of Actischen the battle as a redemptive message of
joy had arrived. The first thing did after this victory, Caesar, was the distribution of the
enemy got into his power Grain stocks under the starving population of Greece. This severe
degree of suffering preferably met weak resistance. For more than a century before the Actischen
Battle Polybius had said that throughout his time in Greece infertility had come of marriages
and Einschwinden of the population without disease or serious war the country would be affected.
Now these scourges in a terrible way had set himself; and Greece remained deserted for all time.
Throughout the Roman Empire, says Plutarch, was following the devastating war the population declined,
but mostly in Greece, that now was not able, in the best circles of the citizenry the 3000 hoplites
to ask, that once the smallest of the Greek countryside, Megara, at Plataea dispute had ^
23 Caesar and Augustus attempted to these disturbing for the government aufzuhelfen depopulation
through the deployment of Italian settlers, and are in fact the two Greece's most prosperous cities
these same colonies, and the subsequent governments have such Assignments not repeated. To
the charming rural idyll Euboean of Dion of Prusa forms the background, a depopulated city,
where many houses are empty, the herds City Hall and the Municipal Archives grazing uncultivated two thirds
of the territory for want of hands lie, and if it says the narrator as personal experience, he
describes himself thus true of many states of the small Greek cities of the country in time
of Trajan. "Thebes in Boeotia, "says Strabo, in the Augustan period," is now hardly a stately
village to name, and, with exception of Tanagra and Thespiae the same from all Boeotian Towns.
"But not only in number dwindled people together, and the impact degenerated. Beautiful women
are probably still there, says one of the finest observers around the end of the first Century,
but handsome men you do not see anymore, the Olympic champion in modern times Appear compared with
the older, low and mean, of course, partly through the fault the artists, but mainly because
they are flat, as they are. The physical training the youth in this promised land of ephebes
and athletes encouraged to an extent was as if it was the purpose of the church constitution, the
gymnasts and boys to men to educate boxers, but when no province had so many ring artist,
also made not so little soldiers to the imperial army. Even from the Athenian youth education,
which in earlier times, the javelin, archery, the gun crew, the march out single lock and the
camp beating disappears, now this soldier game of the boys. The Greek Cities of the kingdom shall
at all taken into account in the levy as not so good either because these recruits appeared physically
unfit, was it because of this element in the Army appeared questionable, and it was an imperial
Launscherz that the caricatured Alexander, Severus Antoninus, the Roman army in the fight against
the Persians by some punching Spartans increased ^ 24th As for the internal order and security
at all was done, must each of the Municipalities are granted, as Roman troops in the province
were not, Athens, for example, maintained crew on the island of Delos, and probably a police department
was also Castle ^ 25th In the crises of the third century, the militia and the one of Elateia
Kostoboker of Athens and the Goths back bravely and with dignity, as the grandchildren of
the fighters of Thermopylae in Caracalla Persian war have gothic in which the Grandson of the
marathon winner drawn their names for the last time in the annals of ancient history. But although
similar processes have to stop them, the Greeks of this era Schlechtweg to throw the rotten scum,
so has the decline of the population in number as in force even in the better empire ever stopped
until then since the end of the second century these landscapes as difficult home seekers diseases
that especially the east coast striking ideas of land and sea pirates, and finally the collapse of
imperial power increased in the Galli's time the chronic suffering acute disaster. ----------------------------------------
^ 23 Without doubt Plutarch will not say these words (de defectu orac. 8), that Greece 3000
did not provide weapons-capable virtue, but that if citizens in the old army Art would be formed, one would
not be able to set up 3000 "hoplites". In this Meaning the expression may well be correct so far
as this in the like general complaints in general can be expected. The number of municipalities
in the province amounted to about hundred. ^ 24 which tells Herodian (4, 8, 3, c. 9, 4) and we have
the inscriptions of two these Spartans, the Nicocles στρατευμένός δίς κατά Περσών (CIG 1253)
and Dioskoras απελθών εις τήν ευτυχεστάτην συμμαχίαν (= expeditio) τήν κατά Περσών (CIG 1495).
^ 25 The φρούριον (CIA III, 826) can not be well understood differently. ---------------------------------------- In poignant
way a substitute for the decline of Greece and experience the moods, the same for the best aroused
against us in the speech that one of these, the Bithynians Dion, around the time of Vespasian
sent the Rhodian. These were regarded, not unjustly, as the most excellent among the Greeks.
In no town was better for the low population was taken care of and they care more the stamp
not of charity, but of giving work. When, after the great civil war, Augustus in the East all
the private debt was paid without complaint, but the Rhodians the dubious privilege back. Was
also the great era of Rhodian trade over, there were still many thriving businesses and wealthy houses
^ 26th But many abuses were also torn down here, and calls for the termination of the philosopher,
not so much as he says to the Rhodian's sake, as insgemein to the Greeks. "Once rested the glory
of Greece and on many many multiplied his fame, her, the Athenians, the Spartans, Thebes, for
a while Corinth, in distant future Argos. But now there is nothing to the others; because some
are run down and totally destroyed, others conduct themselves, as you know, and are dishonored and their
old glory destroyer. You are left, you're only a little and will not completely despise, for
driving as those long ago were all lower Hell marriages decreased as the Phrygians and the
Thracians. As when a great and rich families of the two Eyes and what is sin, this last of the
house, all dishonored ancestors, will stand beside her in Hellas. Do not believe the first marriages
of the cut to be, you are the only ones. Apart to those wretched scoundrel, so even the great
fortunes of the past incomprehensible: the stones and the cities of debris clearly shows the
pride and the size of Hellas as they do not even mystic ancestors worthy descendants, and better
than those of this inhabited it was given the cities, which lie in ruins, for whose memory remains
in her honor and glory of acquired unsullied - better to burn the body when they rotting leave.
"---------------------------------------------- - ^ 26 "to resources," says Diodorus. 31,
p. 566), "Is not missing you, and thousands upon thousands are here, which is useful , To be
rich would be less, "and continues (p. 620):" you are rich, like no one else in Hellas. More than
you had your ancestors not. The island has not become worse; it takes the use of Caria and Lycia
part, a number of cities you are taxed; always the city receives abundant gifts of many citizens.
"He goes on to say that new are not spending came to fore, but the former for the Army and Flaubert
almost ceased to exist; only one or two small boats they had a year to Corinth (the Roman
fleet that is) to ask. ----------------------------------------------- It is this high sense
of Scholars, which measured the small presence of the great past and, as this is not may not occur,
those with reluctant eyes, they looked in the transfiguration of Dagewesenseins, not to offend
by pointing out that the good old custom of the time and Hellenic long afterwards because it not
only found in Rhodes, but in many ways still everywhere was alive. The inner self, the well-justified
sense of self is still at the forefront of civilization standing nation, with all the softness Subjects
and all humility of Parasitenrums the Greeks, this time is not lost come. The Romans borrowed
the gods by the ancient Greeks and the administration form of the Alexandrians, they try to seize
the Greek language and their own in hellenize to measure and style. The Greeks and the Empire do the same,
the national deities of Italy such as Silvanus and Laren are not revered in Greece and no Greek
municipality, it has ever come to mind, which by their Polybius acclaimed as the best political
order to introduce with you. In this respect, the knowledge of the Latin as the cause for the
higher lower career in office was to the Greeks, who entered it, the same appropriated, for
if it be in practice only the Emperor Claudius occurred to the Greeks, who knew no Latin, to
withdraw the Roman citizenship, then certainly was the real exercise of the rights and obligations associated
with the only the possible, the language of the empire was powerful. But aside from public
life, never land in Greece has been learned so Latin in Rome in Greek, Plutarch, the a writer,
the two halves of the empire, as it married and his parallel biographies Roman and Greek famous
men, especially by this juxtaposition, the recommended and had not understood much more than
Latin Russian Diderot, and ruled at least, as he himself says, not the language, the Latin
of the really powerful Greek writers were either civil servants like Appianus and Cassius Dion,
or neutral, like King Juba. In fact, Greece was in itself changed far less than in its external
position. The regiment of Athens was pretty bad, but even at the time of Athens Size, it was
not been exemplary. "It is," says Plutarch, "the same people blow the same disorder, the seriousness
and the joking, the grace and malice as with the ancestors. " Again, this era has, in the life
of the Greek people to have individual traits that his Principate civilization worthy. The
gladiatorial games, to Italy from everywhere out widespread especially also to Asia Minor and
Syria, have latest of all Landscapes in Greece found its way, a long time, they were limited to half
the Italic Corinth, and when the Athenians, in order not to be left behind after this, when they
also be introduced without listening to the voice of one of their best, they asked if they do
not want before the God of mercy bring an altar, as some of the noblest faces angry away from
themselves degrading native city. In no country of the ancient world the slaves had been treated
with such humanity, as in Greece, not the right, but the Custom forbade the Greeks, his slaves
to a master sale and non-Greek thus banished from the landscape to the actual slave trade. Here
we see the Empire at the Bürgerschmäusen and oil donations from the citizens and the unfree People with
thoughtful ^ 27 Only here could a man unfree, as Epictetus under Trajan, in his more than
modest external existence in the Epirus Nicopolis with respected men senatorial run stand in
the way Socrates with Critias and Alcibiades, so that they listened to his oral teaching students
how to master and the talks were recording and published. The amelioration of slavery by the
imperial law go far due to the influence of Greek ideas, for example, Emperor Marcus, to that
nikopolitanischen as slaves to his master and looked up pattern. Unsurpassable described by the
author of a Lucian in the resulting dialog, the behavior of the fine Athenian citizens in his city
against the cramped conditions make rich and traveling public of dubious educational or unquestioned
Rohen: how to make it to the rich Foreigners habit of raising the public bath with an army
of servants, as if he of his life in Athens was not safe anyway and not peace in the country is,
how he habit to show on the road with the purple robe themselves by the people are friendly
ask if it was not that of his mother. He draws parallels between Roman and Athenian life: there,
the arduous entertainments and the even more arduous brothels, the uncomfortable comfort of the control
flocks of domestic and luxury, the annoyances of depravity, the torments of ambition, all
this abundance, the diversity, turmoil of the capital's bustle, where the grace of poverty,
free speech among friends, the Muse for intellectual pleasure, the possibility of life peace
and joy in life - "how could you you, "asks a Greek in Rome the other," the light of the sun,
Hellas and its happiness and Freedom to leave this scrum sake? "Meet the basic chord in all of
his pure and organized nature of this era, just the best Greeks do not want to The Romans exchanged.
There is hardly anything like rants in the literature of the Empire Dion as already mentioned
Euboean idyll: it describes the existence of two hunters families in the lonely forest, whose
assets are eight goats, a cow without horns and a beautiful calf, four crescents and three hunting
spears, who know neither money nor anything of taxes, and then brought to the raging public
meeting of the city, unmolested by this finally be released and to look forward to the outdoors.
The real implementation of this transfigured poetic Outlook on life is Plutarch of Chaeronea,
one of the most charming and well-read and most do not less one of the most effective writers of
antiquity. A wealthy family that Boeotian small country town sprung, and only at home, then
in Athens and in Alexandria in the full Hellenic culture introduced by his studies and many personal
Relations, and by traveling to Italy with Roman familiar relationships, thwarted it, in the
usual way to connect the gifted Greeks in the civil service or the Professor pursue career, he
remained loyal to his homeland, with the excellent wife and the children and with friends and
friends of domestic life in the best sense of the Word of enjoying, to make do with the offices
and honors that are Boeotia to offer him could, and even with the inherited assets. This expresses
the contrast Chaeroneer the Greeks and the Hellenized out; such Hellenism was not possible in
Smyrna still in Antioch, it was part of the ground like the honey from Hymettos. There are powerful
enough Talents and deeper natures, but hardly a second writer, with so happy Measure is found
in the Necessary with serenity and as it the stamp of his soul peace and knew his life's happiness
impart his writings. ---------------------------------------- ^ 27 The popular festivals, hosted
in Tiberius' time a rich man in Akraephia in Boeotia, he invited the adult slaves, the slaves his
wife with the Free to Guest (CIG 1625). In a foundation for the distribution of oil in the
turn Institute (γυμνάσιον) of Gytheion in Laconia is stipulated that six days in the year,
the slaves are to have them share (Lebas-Foucart, 243 n. a). Similar donations meet in Argos
(CIG 1122, 1123). ---------------------------------------- The self-control of Hellenism can
on the ground of public life is not revealed in the purity and beauty in the quiet home, according
to the story and after the story, fortunately, does not ask. Turning to the public relations , so
is more of Mißregiment to report as of the regiment, both the Roman government as the Greek autonomy.
Of good will was lacking there, not in that of the Roman Philhellenism the Empire ruled much more
decisively than the Republican. It is reflected throughout the large and small, in the continuation
of the Hellenization of eastern provinces and the recognition of dual official language of
the empire polite forms in which the government operates with the smallest Greek community and its
staff continues to operate ^ 28 Also, the Emperor of gifts and buildings for the benefit lack of
this province can not, and although most of the species came to Athens, then built Hadrian
but a large water line to the best of Corinth, plus the mental hospital of Epidaurus. But insgemein
the considerate treatment of the Greeks and the special grace which the actual Hellas by the
imperial government was given because in some sense the same as Italy was regarded as the mother
country, not the rule nor the landscape are quite to the advantage knocked out. The annual exchange
of top officials and lax control of the Central Office let all the senatorial provinces, where the
governor Regiment, handed over the pressure as the blessing of uniform administration feel, and
this double with its small size and their poverty. Still under Augustus himself made these abuses
itself felt in the degree that it was one of the first acts of government of his successor, both Greece
and Macedonia to take its own administration ^ 29, as it was being, in fact, on the whole Length of his reign.
It was very constitutional, but perhaps not as well as that Emperor Claudius, when he came to power,
the old order restored. Since then, then be content with this and Achaia had not appointed, but
by erlosten Officials have maintained until this form of government ever came off. ------------------------------------------
^ 28 due to one of the numerous complaints with which the cities of Asia Minor Title and rank disputes,
the government harassed, said Pius the Ephesians (W. H. Waddington, Aristide, p. 51), hear like that Pergamenes
given them the new title as had, the Smyrnäer had failed probably only by chance and good will
in the future would certainly the right thing to do if they, too, the Ephesians, they would settle
their legal title. A small Lycian city, which to confirm a decision it has taken for the proconsul einkommt,
contends that (O. Bennett, traveling in Lycia and Caria. Wien, 1884, Volume 1, p. 71) excellent
arrangements required only praise, not confirmation, which lies on the merits. The Rhetorenschulen
this period also supply clerks for the imperial office, but this alone does not. It does not
belong to the essence of the principal, the Untertanverhältnis to accentuate the outside,
and especially not against Greeks. ^ 29 A formal change of Tax Ordinance follows from this
change is not well in Tacitus (Ann. 1, 76) not indicated, if the device is made because of the provincial
tax pressure complain (ONERA deprecantes), which allowed better governor through appropriate down
bids, possibly through the attainment of remission, the provinces of help up. That the transport
of the Imperial Post was felt particularly in this province as a heavy burden, as the edict of Claudius
from Tegea (Eph. epigr. V, p. 69). ------------------------------------------ But by far worse,
it was still the governor exempts from the rule of Greece. The intention to promote these communities,
by exemption from tribute and levy as no less by minimizing the restriction of the rights of the
sovereign state, has, at least in many cases, led to the contrary. The inner falsity of the institutions
retaliated. Although like for the less privileged or more managed communities local autonomy
have achieved their objective, at least we do not hear it with Sparta, Corinth, Patra was ordered
especially bad. But Athens was not designed to to manage themselves, and offers the daunting
image of a pampered by the top violence as morally depraved and financial community. On their
right to have the same flowering State must be located. If it failed, the Athenians, the nation
under its hegemony to unite, this city is the only one of Greece as Italy was, what the landscape,
which has fully implemented its own territory as the attics is approximately 40 square miles,
twice the size of the island Rügen, has no city of the ancient world otherwise possessed. But they
remained outside of Attica, which they owned, either by the Mithradatic War by Sulla's grace as after the Pharsalian
battle in which they on the side of Pompey had been, by the grace of Caesar - he just asked
how often they have themselves destroying it and wanted to be rescued then by the glory of
their ancestors. The city was still not only the former haliartische area in Boeotia, but also to
their own Coast of Salamis, the ancient starting point for its naval supremacy in the Thracian Sea
the lucrative Islands of Skyros, Lemnos, and Imbros in the Aegean as well as Delos, of course,
since this island was End of the Republic no longer the central emporium of trade with the East after
the traffic be pulled away from there to the ports of the Italian west coast had, and it was necessary
for The Athenians an irreparable loss.


When his senses returned to him he sat up, wondering vaguely at first what had happened, and
where he was.  He only knew he was trembling, aching, and feeling miserably ill.  Then memory
returned, and a sickening fear mingled with his shame of his own terror.  In his shame he made
himself look all about him, he made himself stay quietly where he was and try to fathom the
mystery.  And as soon as his eyes grew accustomed to the strange light, he could distinguish
a mysterious form moving stealthily from bush to bush.

In another second Paul was on his feet and flying as though for his life along the road towards
home.  His first idea and aim was to get back through the window again, and bar himself in
from all danger, but the banging of his boots as he ran, reminded him that he had not yet fulfilled
his object, and another terror was added to his burthen.  When at last he got back out of sight
of the lonely moor, and within the shelter of the farm, some of his courage returned, and greatly
though he dreaded it, he made his way to the boot-house instead of scuttling into the house,
and into safety at once.  Strangely enough the window of the boot-house was open and he had
soon dropped his boots inside, in the hope that they would appear in the morning with the others,
all black, shiny, and innocent looking; and crept away back to the open window whence he had
escaped. It was not as easy to get back as it had been to get out; the window was higher from
the ground on the outside, and Paul barked both his knees badly before he succeeded.  Then,
gently dropping to the floor, he crept softly upstairs and into his bed.  The sight of the
cosy room, the safety, warmth, and comfort of it all, helped him to forget all his woes, his
smarting knees, the thorns in his feet, and his shivering, aching body.

"I wouldn't mind a bit," he thought, "if I'd only got something to eat; but what a tale it'll
be to tell the other fellows when I get back to school."  And so comforting himself he fell asleep.

When he awoke it was with a feeling that he had overslept himself, and that the morning was
well advanced.  This feeling grew stronger, too, when, on turning and stretching, he heard
his mother's voice: "Paul, Paul, awake at last?  Why, what a sleepy boy you are!  Have you
had a disturbed night, dear?"

He opened his eyes with a puzzled stare.  "Is it late, mother?  Have you had breakfast?  What's
the time?"

"Eleven o'clock.  Yes, we had breakfast hours ago, but when we found we could not rouse you,
we let you sleep on.  Were you disturbed in the night, dear?"

He opened his still drowsy eyes again.  "Disturbed!" he said stupidly. He really did not remember
at once all that had happened.  "No, I don't think so.  Why?"

"We think someone broke into the house last night.  At least, one of the kitchen windows and
the shutter were found open, and there were footmarks on the window-sill, and about the floor.
The strange thing is that nothing has been moved or taken away, but Mrs. Minards is greatly
frightened, so are the maids; the foolish girls seem to have lost their heads entirely."

Long before she had finished speaking, Paul had remembered that he had left the window and
the shutters open, and that he must have left footmarks where he trod.  He felt thoroughly
despicable as he lay there, listening to his mother's story, knowing that he could explain
all, and so save every one much alarm and trouble.  "I should not have told Stella and Michael,"
she went on, "lest they should be nervous another time, but they had heard it all from the
maids before I could prevent it."

But Paul did not hear what she was saying; he had suddenly thought of his clothes, those he
wore last night, and his tell-tale stockings.  If his mother noticed them now, the whole affair
would be shown up.  And at that moment Mrs. Anketell did catch sight of the stockings, lying
inside out and rolled up anyhow, on the floor, and instinctively she picked one up and began
to straighten it, while Paul watched her actions with feelings such as an animal must suffer
when caught in a trap.

"Why, Paul," she exclaimed, as she thrust her hand into the foot of it, "your stockings are
quite wet, and--oh, look, my dear child, what have you done to them?"  She held up the foot
on her hand for him to see. The bottom of it was riddled with holes!

He had never thought of their wearing out like that, and he leaned up, gazing at the stocking
in sheer astonishment.  His mother mistook the look on his face for another kind of surprise.
"How can they have got into such a state?  They were quite sound when I bandaged your ankle.
Were they sound when you took them off last night?"

"They were all right when I came to bed," stammered Paul.

"But they have thorns and bits of grass stuck in them," she cried, examining them closely.
"Some one must have walked about in them on grass, and wet grass too."  She put down the stocking,
and picked up the knickerbockers which were lying on a chair.  "My dear child, these are all
muddy too!"  And as she held them up Paul saw on them the clear marks of his fall, and his
attempts to scale the window.

"Can't you tell me anything about it, dear?" she asked, puzzled and amazed; "can't you give
me any explanation?"

"No," said Paul faintly.  And his mother, never for a moment suspecting that he could wilfully
deceive her, or that such a thing as had really happened could be possible, began to look elsewhere
for the explanation.

"Do you know if any of you walk in your sleep?" she asked, with a sudden thought.

"I never saw the others do it," said Paul quickly, delighted at the possibility of a new way
out of his dilemma, "and of course I shouldn't know if I did myself, should I?"

"Perhaps not, unless something happened to wake you.  But don't worry, or frighten yourself.
Of course no one is to blame if it is a case of sleep-walking,--only it will be a great anxiety
for the future. You had better get up now and dress.  I will take these things down; they may
help to explain what is such a puzzle to us all, and to relieve their minds."

As soon as his mother had gone, Paul quickly began to bestir himself; he was not particularly
anxious to face people and all the questions which would probably be levelled at him, but never
could he lie still and think of the deception he had practised on his mother.  When he came
to move, the stiffness and pain in his scraped knees almost made him cry out, and when he put
his feet on the floor, he quickly sat back on the bed again, for the bottoms of his feet were
full of tiny prickles, and the pain, when he pressed on them, was almost unbearable.

CHAPTER X.

RUMOUR AND APPREHENSION.

In the excitement and talk which the events of the night called forth, Paul's boots escaped
notice, and Paul himself many times wished he could have done the same.  But he was the most
interesting person in the house just then, and was questioned, cross-questioned, pitied, talked
at, until he was heartily sick of everything, and longed to run away, back to school, or anywhere,
to escape it all; for he could not answer a question without involving himself in deeper deceit,
and he did honestly long to be able to throw it off, and stand with a clear conscience again.

Another part of his punishment was the attention he came in for.  He was cossetted for a cold
they felt sure he must have caught, his knees were bandaged with ointment, his feet were prodded
and poulticed to get out the prickles; and, worst of all, there was talk of putting him to
sleep in his father's dressing-room, which opened out of his parents' bedroom, that he might
be heard and checked if he attempted again to take any more midnight strolls.  For the matter
assumed a very serious aspect as the day wore on, and they began to think less lightly of Master
Paul's habit of undoing bolts and windows, and leaving the house open to any one all the night
through.

Farmer Minards came home to tea looking grave and troubled.  "Here's a pretty business!" he
exclaimed as he came in.  "Two convicts got away from the prison yesterday morning early, and
haven't been caught yet.  One of 'em broke into Perry's farm last night, and stole a whole
'eap of Farmer Perry's clothes; 'tother one they've lost sight of altogether, but 'tis thought
he made for this direction.  And they say they are two of the most desperate villains they've
ever had within the walls."

Paul's heart almost ceased beating with the sudden fear that filled it.

"It be'oves us to keep the place well barred up," went on the old man, "and not be leaving
windows open all night," nodding knowingly at Paul. "They're not nice chaps to meet, they there
convicts, and they don't stop at much when they're trying to get off."

Every vestige of colour had left Paul's face as he realised what his danger had been the night
before.  That must have been the convict he had heard.  He longed to tell the farmer how close
the danger was, that he might take extra precautions to guard the house.

"Do they--haven't they got on handcuffs, and--and chains on their ankles?" he asked.

"Yes, but they pretty soon gets rid of they, you may be sure," answered the old man.  "Why,
what do you know about 'em, young sur?"

It seemed to Paul that he was looking at him almost suspiciously. "Oh, nothing--only--I've--I've
been told--I know a fellow who stayed near Princetown once, and he told me a heap about them,"
he stammered, and Farmer Minards seemed satisfied and rose to go back to his work.

"Don't you young folk wander far for a few days," he said, turning round as he was going out
at the door; "they're nasty chaps to meet on a lonely spot.  There's one thing, you won't be
able to go out and get into any mischief for a day or two, I reckon.  'Tisn't a bad thing to
have 'ee tied by the leg for a bit, it'll give your mother a bit of peace of mind," he said
to Paul, and he laughed in a way which made Paul flush with mortification.

But he was mistaken as to the length of time Master Paul would be tied by the leg.   No schoolboy
of fourteen would consent to spend a second perfect summer day in the house, for the sake of
a pair of scarred knees, if he could possibly manage to use them.

Paul found it almost unbearable to be in as long as he was, and especially to be the object
of as much notice as he was, so the second day he declared himself quite fit to go out and
stroll around, and Mrs. Anketell was glad for him to be out in the sunshine and air again,
he was so pale, and his spirits seemed so low.

On one point Mrs.  Anketell had been most imperative--not a word as to the escaped convicts
was to be mentioned before Stella and Michael. They had had so much to excite and alarm them
lately, she was most anxious to keep this last terror from them.  Mike, she knew, had a childish
dread of the prison and its occupants, and Stella, who was not strong yet after her illness,
had also been nervous of being in the near neighbourhood of the prison.  So the two younger
ones ran out and played about with light hearts, full of pleasure that Paul was with them again,
and anxious only to make him laugh and romp about, and tease them as he used to do. But Paul,
though he was out in the sunshine once more, and though he had escaped the detection of his
wickedness, could not laugh, or joke, or take any interest in the others' amusement, for a
great weight lay on his heart and his conscience, and he wondered if he should ever be a happy,
light-hearted boy again.

It was such a lovely day, that first day he was out, so warm, and bright, and perfect, that
Mrs. Anketell promised them they should have all their meals in the orchard, for there she
felt they would be safe from harm, and Farmer Minards sent out for one of the shepherd's dogs
to be with them too.  So they had their mid-day dinner under the apple-trees, and played there
contentedly enough, the children unconscious of any danger, their mother feeling for the time
safe, and trying to put all fear from her, Paul in constant dread of he scarcely knew what.

In the afternoon Mr. Anketell had to leave them, as a telegram had come calling him to London
at once.  He was very vexed about it, for he felt peculiarly loath to leave them just then,
he too being filled with a foreboding of fear, for which he could not account except by telling
himself that Paul's extraordinary night adventure, and the narrow escape from the morass, had
upset his nerves, and made him unusually fearful. When the car came round to take him to the
station, he called Paul aside, and spoke to him very gravely.

"Paul, my son," he said kindly, "I have to leave you all, though I am more than unwilling to
do so, but I am going to leave your mother and the children in your charge.  Keep the little
ones in your sight, guard them all carefully.  Cease to be a thoughtless child for the time,
and try to be a man, with a man's grave sense of responsibility.  Take care of them and of
yourself, and remember a great trust rests on you."

"I will, father," said Paul earnestly, and his lips quivered as his father leaned affectionately
on his shoulder.  Confession trembled on his lips, but there was no time for it, though he
felt that here was a chance to expiate his wickedness and deceit of the past.  But if he could
not confess, he could at any rate live down that past and wipe it out by his future conduct,
and he would, he vowed he would.  "I will take care of them, father, I promise you," he repeated
earnestly.

The spirits of all flagged a good deal after Mr. Anketell's departure, and it was quite a sober
little party that gathered round the tea-table in the orchard, and after tea they were quite
content to sit and read instead of indulging in their old lively games.

At seven o'clock Mrs. Anketell rose and went in with Mike to give him his glass of milk before
putting him to bed.  "I think you had all better come in now," she said.  "Can you bring in
the rugs and things between you?"

The elder ones followed her in a few moments with their first load, and laid the things down
in the passage.  Mrs. Anketell was outside calling to the maids, "I can't think where they
are," she said anxiously, as the children passed her on their way out.  "Mrs. Minards, I know,
has gone out in the car which took father; she had some shopping to do, but she left Laura
and Ann in charge.  It is very wrong of them to leave the house like this."

Paul went outside and shouted the girls' names at the top of his voice, but he and Stella were
bringing their last load before he saw them coming in at the yard gate.  They had been down
to the hind's cottage, gossiping with his wife.

About nine o'clock Mrs. Minards came back in the car, driven by her husband, and soon after
all the household retired to bed.

CHAPTER XI.

A TEST OF BRAVERY.

It must have been three or four hours later that Paul heard what he thought were mysterious
noises and stealthy footsteps downstairs. He had been lying restless and wakeful, haunted by
a dread of he knew not what, his mind continually dwelling on the runaway convicts out on the
moor, the clank of the iron as he had heard it that night sounding plainly in his ears.  He
remembered, too, how deserted the house had been when his mother and Mike had come into it,
and how easily any one could have walked in, had he or she been so inclined.

Then in on his thoughts broke those sounds.  A dreadful certainty of harm to come came to him,
but he had plenty of pluck, and the memory of his promise to his father was strong in his mind.
He got out of bed softly and opened his door; then he crept to his mother's door and listened;
no sound came from there, and he hoped she was fast asleep, and Michael, too, whose cot had
been moved in there for the time.  Paul felt sincerely thankful.  But though it was plain that
the sounds had not come from there, he was certain they came from somewhere within the house.
He crept softly along the passage and stood at the head of the stairs listening.  At first
all was quiet, but just as he was thinking of creeping back to his bed again, telling himself
he had made a mistake, there came from below a faint sound of scraping, and of stealthy movements. The worst was when the early afternoon clash with and rattle the ancient
stagecoach wobbled through the village and was sent or Luetje He even rushed there to get the
new newspapers, and he not with the mother and Professor could talk about all the huge acts
that happened out there, but so dumb and had to stand aside. It was with such vows a bitter thing!

Then
again, he told himself that he would never understand the man.

For one, the been there, he seemed to Richard too quiet, even from a bitter, hard indifference
the boys rebelled. He could if were frightening or glorious news, the printed sheets lay aside
silently and without saying a word for half an hour the right to stare down. That was the boy
scary.

Most of all he wandered outside in the garden and yard, around in the stable and barn. He found
a highly attractive world. With the old Luetje he had quickly made friends and had from him
not only in Holstein Low German, but also in the feeding and putting the cart before Liese teach.
Surprised, he stood before the draw-well, looked in fairy tales showers flows, in its dark depths
close to the bottom of which the water glistened softly, and laughed, when the high clumsy move
and honker before the age of a coal-black leather bucket Strickland were lowered to fill, slow
climb back up. Ice cold and it was clear the water and tasted a bit like steel, it came from
the mysterious center the Earth's interior and was wearing a bit of primal power in itself. -
It was him every day a new delight, Early in the dark gray of the winter morning, to swing on
the box seat of the little basket cart and snap to learn under the direction of the old coachman
the reins, the whip, to encourage the prudent Liese fastest pace and, with a bold arch of the drive
up economy of the ancient town, where Liza was found during he himself turned to the sciences
that him at that time on the course, the least Knowledge worthy of all the good things of the earth
considered themselves. The schoolboy bored him. With the heavy closed, something insidious nature
of these low-and German farmers Landowner sons he did not have much to start. Knowledge of life
he was to them far forward. He made a remark which seemed to him, of course, they understood
him at all do not put their heads together behind his back and laughed. Although he impressed
newly discovered what they were familiar of old, and now suddenly a very different side illuminated
and viewed, searched them and seemed strange. Hellauf blazed his Joy in everything that moved,
grew, was alive in animal and plant life. He could are absorbed and quickly check the spotted
cows in the morning through the silent city streets were driven, and miss about the start
of school. He did really prefer any Day to feed the pigs, and saw their greedy trunk sewers.


"Who are you--what do you want?" gasped Paul.  He was rendered well-nigh speechless at coming
suddenly face to face with the burglar.

The man turned on him like a hunted animal at bay.  "If you make a sound I'll shoot you!" he
snarled, and with the same he whipped a revolver from his pocket.  "If you'll hold your tongue
and say nothing no harm'll come to anybody, but if you give the alarm I'll--"

But he did not complete his sentence, for their voices had wakened Stella, and at the sight
of the stranger she started up in bed with a scream.

Frantic and desperate, the man turned from Paul to her.  "Stop that noise, will you?" he hissed,
"or I'll--"  But at that moment Paul rushed past him, sprang on the bed, and placed his own
body in front of his sister's. "No, you don't," he half sobbed, half screamed, "you--you coward,
you'll hit me first!"

It is doubtful if the man would have fired at little Stella; probably he meant only to frighten
the children, but at that instant he heard the sound of footsteps on the stairs, and with a
frenzied look around him for a means of escape, he saw the doorway filled by the burly form
of Farmer Minards.

Now Farmer Minards was not accustomed to the capturing of desperate men. A better man with
a kicking horse, or a savage bull, could not perhaps, be found on Dartmoor, and if the convict
had stood and allowed himself to be pinioned with only a moderate amount of struggling and
kicking, the farmer's presence of mind would have been sufficient, but, as it was, when the
man made one bold rush, with pistol cocked, for the very spot where he stood, he gave way before
the rush; but for an instant there was a struggle and a fight, for Muggridge and the man who
slept at the farm were close behind the farmer, little expecting their master to give way so
soon, and leave them to grapple with their visitor, and it may have been that he intended to
shoot down one of them, or that in the struggle the pistol accidentally went off, but in another
second a bullet whistled through the air, and, passing clean through the fleshy part of Paul's
arm, became embedded in the wall behind.

Certain it is that if Paul had not dragged his sister flat down behind him on the bed poor
Stella's life would have been ended then and there. But Paul had expiated his sin nobly, and
he had nearly laid down his life for hers.  Stella really thought he had laid it down in very
truth when he fell forward on his face with blood pouring from him, and, overcome with grief
and horror, she fainted dead away beside him.

Farmer Minards saw the children fall, and he, too, thought Paul was killed.  In fact, for the
moment he thought they both were, and with the horror of it, forgetting the convict and everything
else, he rushed to the bedside, leaving Muggridge and Davey to manage as best they could. But
the convict had the best of it, and the two had never a chance to close with him.  By the force
and unexpectedness with which he came he burst through them, and dealing Davey a blow on the
head with his pistol, and Muggridge one in the face with his fist, which left them both stunned
and bleeding, he flew down the stairs and out of the house by the very window through which
he had entered.

When Stella and Paul at last awoke again to life, and to a recollection of what had taken place,
it seemed to be everybody's aim to banish from their minds the painful past, and the memory
of that terrible night, and to fill their lives with everything that could brighten and cheer
them and help them to forget.  Paul was quite a hero in all their eyes; to Stella he seemed
the very ideal of all that was splendid and brave, and to Paul's credit it must be said that
the opinion he had of himself was far lower and more contemptuous than he deserved, and he
would not listen to one word of praise.

CHAPTER XII.

STELLA'S ADVENTURE.

Naturally, one of the first inquiries of the children on recovering was as to whether their
assailant had been captured, and Mrs. Anketell was greatly troubled, fearing it would make
them nervous of the place if they knew he was still at large, and she longed to be able to
assure them that the man was safely under lock and key again.  Another thing she feared was
that the children would be too terrified to stay in the neighbourhood, and would wish to be
taken home.  But when by-and-by an immediate return home was suggested to them they pleaded
so hard--to her great relief--to be allowed to stay, that she gladly fell in with their wishes,
being anxious to leave with a happier impression of the place than that given by the fright,
almost tragedy, they had just sustained.

So they stayed on.  Stella soon grew bright and rosy again when she saw that Paul was not dangerously
hurt, and with the happy knack which healthy, plucky children, have, she soon threw off any
dread she might have of going out and about, and with 'Watch' (the dog Farmer Minards gave
the children to be their own special protector) at their heels, she and Michael wandered about,
within reach of home, as happily as if no such person as a convict existed.

Paul, of course, did not recover so quickly; he had to be quiet until his wound had healed,
and Stella and Michael missed him very much in all their games and walks, so much so indeed
that Mr. Anketell, who had been sent for at once, took to planning little excursions to various
picturesque spots in the neighbourhood, where they would have tea in a cottage, or in a cottage
garden, and drive home in the cool of the evening.

One day, soon after the accident, while Paul was still too weak to get about, Mr. Anketell
suggested that they should drive that afternoon to a village called Windycross, walk on a mile
to the little town which was their nearest shopping-place, and come back to Windycross to tea.
Stella was delighted.  For days she had been longing to buy a little present for Paul, but
did not know how to manage it; here was her opportunity, and with her purse in her pocket,
and heart full of delightful importance, she clambered up into the carriage and drove off.

It was a lovely day, and the children were in the highest spirits, only saddened every now
and again by the sight of the searchers still scouring the country for the escaped man, and
the fear that the poor fellow might at any moment be caught, for, strange though it may seem,
all the children's sympathies were with him, and they longed to hear that the search had been
abandoned.

The drive to Windycross was a long one, but they reached there in good time, and Michael and
Stella stood looking about them full of interest at the funny little low white cottages, while
their father went into one and ordered tea.  Then they strolled slowly on to the town, and
Stella laid out two of the five shillings she possessed on a book she knew Paul was longing
to possess.  Her pleasure and excitement over her purchase were immense; she could not allow
anyone else to carry it, and every now and again she was filled with a longing to untie the
string and look at her treasure, to turn over the crisp new leaves, and glance at the pictures.
At last, when they reached the village, she could restrain herself no longer.  They had got
back earlier than they thought they would, and the tea was not ready, so Mr. Anketell, who
wanted to call on a friend near by, thought he would go and do that while they were waiting,
and take the children with him.

But Stella wanted so much to undo her precious parcel and look at her book that she pleaded
to be left behind, and Mr. Anketell and Michael left her at the cottage.  But she soon found
that that did not suit her; there were too many people about, and she was shy under the glances
of so many eyes; so she strolled into the garden, but that was close to the village street,
and a girl who was working there dropped her work to stare at the stranger.

Stella began to feel quite cross, and she looked around to see if there was no secluded spot
in all that place.  Then her eye fell on the little church hidden away amongst trees at the
bottom of the village, and her heart leaped.  She turned to the girl who was picking fruit
and watching her at the same time.  "I am going down to the churchyard to sit in the shade,"
she said.  "I will be back again by the time tea is ready," and before the girl could reply
she had hurried away.

The top of the village seemed to be the favourite spot at Windycross for the villagers to congregate;
most of the houses were up there, too, while the lower end where the church stood was as deserted
as the other end was sought after; to Stella's great joy she did not see a single person, and
as she clambered over the stone stile which led into it, and wandered along the overgrown paths,
she felt as though she was as safe from intrusion as though she had been in the middle of the
moor.  The fact was, the yard had long ceased to be used as a burying-ground, and the church
itself was as nearly deserted by the present generation of villagers, for a clergyman came
only once a month to hold service there, and while the old building gradually became a ruin,
a flourishing chapel sprang up to satisfy the needs of the neglected people.

But Stella knew and thought nothing of this; she was only bent on finding a comfortable, secluded
seat, where she sat and unwrapped her parcel. She thought of Paul's surprise, and how pleased
he would be, she dipped into the pages here and there and read a few lines, admired the covers,
and enjoyed the delightful smell new books so often have, and at last, half reluctantly, she
wrapped her treasure up in its paper again, trying to make it look as neat as when the shopman
had handed it to her. ^ 59 The strange report of the
governor of Cappadocia under Hadrian, Flavius ​​Arrian, on the mobilization of Cappadocian
army against the "Scythians" we still have under his small fonts; he was even in the Caucasus
and visited the local passes (Lyd. like. 3, 53). ^ 60 The Teacher the ruins of Dion tables report
on Xiphilin, Zonaras and in the excerpts, the right Instead of reading Αλανοί Αλβανοί has kept
Zonaras; that the Alans also looted the Albanian territory, is the version of the exc. urs. LXXII.
----------------------------------------------- The Disruption of the status quo came back
from Parthian side. The supremacy of the Romans Armenia in history has played a similar role
as that of the German Empire of Italy; unreal as it was, but it was always regarded as a handle, and
bore the Threat of war in the womb. Already under Hadrian threatened the conflict, it was the
emperor, in a to maintain personal meeting with the Partherfürsten peace stand. Under Pius seemed
once again be right around the Parthian invasion of Armenia, his first serious warning was of success.
But even this most peaceful of all the Emperor, it was more of the heart, the to save the life
of a citizen to kill a thousand enemies, had in the last period of his Government prepared
to make the attack and reinforce the armies of the East. No sooner had He closed his eyes (161),
as long as the threat of thunderstorms erupted. On the orders of King Vologasos IV moved the
Persian commander Chosroes ^ 61 in Armenia, and was the Arsakidenprinzen Pacorus to the throne.
The governor of Cappadocia, Severianus did, what was his duty, and in turn, led the Roman
army over the Euphrates. In Elegeia, just where one generation to the previously also by the
Parthians on the Armenian throne King had set Parthomasiris humiliated in vain before Traian, joined
the army each other; the Roman was not merely beaten, but destroyed in three days' fighting;
the unfortunate commander was, as once Varus himself to death. The winning Orientals were not
content with taking Armenia, but crossed the Euphrates and broke in Syria, also the standing army
was beaten there, and they feared for their loyalty the Syrians. The Roman government had no choice.
As the troops of the East even with this Opportunity to their low-strike capability and also demonstrated
by the defeat suffered weakened and demoralized, were from the West even further from the Rhine
legions sent to the East and in Italy itself levies arranged. One of the two short before the
government came Emperor Lucius Verus was, even to the Orient (162) to the command to take over,
and if he, not warlike, nor even dutiful to the task was not up and report about his actions in
the East and little else is, except that he was there with his niece's wedding and for his Theaterenthusiasmus
was even ridiculed by the Antiochenes, then led the governor of Cappadocia and from Syria,
where she is Statius Priscus, then Martius Verus, here Avidius Cassius ^ 62 best generals of
that era, the cause of Rome better than the support of the Crown. Again, Before the armies came together,
gave the Roman peace, Marcus would have liked the heavy War avoided. But Vologasos dismissed suggestions
the cheap back sharply, and this time was the peaceful neighbor also the stronger. Armenia
was once again won, even in 163 years took a Priscus Artaxata the capital and destroyed it.
Not far away was the new state capital, Kaine, Ind. Armenian Nor-Khalakh or Valarschapat (Etschmiazin)
The Romans built and with a strong garrison occupied 63rd ^
  But I've gone free
longer than any before me, and that's something.  Who is Paul?" he asked suddenly.  "And where
do you live?"

"We live at Moor Farm.  Paul is my brother, the one you shot."

The man looked at her sharply,  "Did I--did I hurt him much?"

"The bullet went through his arm.  He didn't die."

"I'm glad of that," said the man, and he spoke as though he really meant it.  "I'm starving,"
he said a second later.  "I haven't had a mouthful since the day before yesterday, and I can't
hold out much longer. Have you got any food about you?"

Stella shook her head.  "No, I haven't.  I am so sorry," she said wistfully, and the man's
hard face grew soft as her blue eyes looked pityingly up at him.  "I wish I could help you,"
she said earnestly; then with sudden recollection, "I have three shillings, if that would be
of any use to you."

"Thank you, Missy, it might be," he said gratefully; "but I wish you'd got a bit of bread."

She took out her little purse, and counted out the money into his rough hand.  "Thank you,
Missy," he said again.  "I shall never forget you, if I gets away, or if I'm took I shall always
be humbly grateful to you, and think of you as one of the pluckiest little ladies that ever lived."

"Thank you," she said politely, "but I think I must be going now, or someone may come to look
for me."

The man's face again was filled with a desperate fear, and he shrank back further into the
gloom of the vault, "Before you go you must swear you won't give me away.  Swear!--do you hear,
on your solemn oath!"

"I don't know how to swear," said Stella simply, "but I promise solemnly not to tell anyone
who would do you any harm."

"That won't do.  You must not tell anyone at all, unless you hear I'm-- took--or killed," with
a bitter laugh.

"Very well," said Stella.  "I don't like keeping it from mother, but I will keep the secret,
for your sake.  I hope you will soon get some food.  Good-bye," and she held out her hand to
shake hands with him.

The man took it, but did not speak, and Stella, drawing her hand away, ran down the aisle and
through the church as fast as she could.  Not until she was outside did she realise how her
limbs were trembling, and she wondered how she should ever get back to the cottage and escape
notice and questioning.  But in her great desire to shield the man she made such efforts to
laugh and talk and be like her usual self, and Michael had so much to say too, that nothing
unusual was observed in her look or manner. And if, during the next few days, any of them thought
her unusually quiet and thoughtful, it was all put down to the shock the burglar had given
her that night, no one dreaming that she had had a long and solitary interview with that same
desperate creature, and had come out of it unhurt.

But only for a week did her silence last, for at the end of that time the poor, wretched convict
was captured, miles from Windycross, just as he was making his way to a train which would have
borne him, probably, to safety. The disembarkation did not even hit any resistance;
the British had customer is no longer the difficult mood of the troops and the landing expected.
Cunobelinus king had died shortly before, the opposition led his two sons, Caratacus and Togodumnus.
The march of the invading army was immediately directed to Camalodunum ^ 8 and in a quick victory
run, it came down to the Thames, where maintenance has been made, perhaps mainly to give the emperor
the opportunity to pick the easy Laurel personally.
Of course at first he was very weak from loss of blood and shock, and no one wondered; but,
as time went on, and in spite of all that was done for him, he did not pick op health as they
expected him to.  They fed him, and physicked him, and tried to cheer him, but nothing seemed
to do him any good, until at last the doctor, the same who had pulled him out of the morass,
and carried Stella home, began to be puzzled about him.  "Has he anything on his mind that
can be troubling him?" he asked Mr. Anketell, one day.  "Something is keeping him back; he
is spiritless and depressed.  It must be his mind; his body is sound enough, and the wound
is healing nicely.  I wonder if he has been up to any other escapade, and is uneasy about it?
It is probably quite a trifling thing, but I feel sure something is preying on the boy's mind."

After the doctor had gone, Mr. Anketell wandered about the moor, thinking deeply.  The doctor's
words had impressed him very much, and even while he had been speaking the memory of the sleep-walking
night, and Paul's odd behaviour of the day previous to that, came back to him.  Could Paul
have deceived them all as to the events of that night?  Had something happened then which he
had not liked to confess?

He went slowly back to the farm, his heart heavy, his face stern. But before he sought his
son, he went to his own room, and prayed to God to help him in his guidance of this boy of his.

Paul was alone, lying on a couch in his own room, to which he had been carried after he had
been shot.  The sun had set, and a soft twilight was filling the room, but the light which
still came in at the window fell full on Paul.  Mr. Anketell, entering softly, saw the expression
on the boy's face, the look in his eyes, and his heart ached, and all his sternness vanished.
"My boy," he said, oh, so tenderly, "tell me what it is that is troubling you; tell me all
about it, I know there is something. But were in the
childhood of the poet to demonstrate the necessary conditions for such a view? Goethe himself
while making the Lords of the Aneiferung Ochsenstein for his child Bash responsible. But recognizing
his own narrative suggests that the adult neighbors it had only encouraged the continuation
of his conduct. The first time he had made spontaneously, and the motivation that he gives for this
start, "There's all come out of (the games) wanted, "can be interpreted as well without forced confession
that he had a powerful motive of his Action at the time of writing, and probably for many years
not previously known.

It is known that John  To Paul, though he but dimly realised it then, and
could not have explained it, that hour was a turning-point in his life, and in all his after-life
he thanked God for that one evening's talk.  But after the confession and the forgiveness was
over, and all had been told, they sat so long talking that presently the supper-bell rang,
and then came a light, slow step upon the stair.  It was Stella's, they knew.  "Will you tell
her?" whispered Paul, and though his heart was sore with shame he did not falter.

"No," whispered back his father.  "I shall tell no one. Suddenly
there came a point where the inexorable presence again, eerily serene against the Merry pushed past
did. And the man stopped, was in the chair, in a blue smoke haze wrapped, and dreamed of irretrievable
happiness unrestrained creativity.

"I will try not to let anything," said Paul gravely, and there came a tap at the door.  "Is
daddy here?" asked Stella's voice, and then, opening the door, "Oh, you are in the dark.  Poor
Paul, weren't you frightened?"

"Oh, no," said Paul simply, "father is here."

And then a happy little procession went down the stairs to supper--Paul in his father's arms,
Stella running in front to open doors.  Exclamations of joy greeted them as they appeared,
for this was Paul's first appearance below stairs.  And his mother, who at the first glance
saw that it was her old, happy Paul who had come back to them, and that all the shadow which
had come between them had been cleared away, felt happier than she had for many a long day.
For one wilful mischievous boy can not only make himself thoroughly unhappy, but everyone about
him becomes unhappy too.

A week or two later they left Moor Farm for home, their holiday ended.

"Well," said Mr. Anketell, drawing a deep breath as he took his seat beside them in the train,
"it seems to me we lost nothing in the way of excitement by not going to Norway. But we do not believe that It
was the love of clatter and snap, which such a child first hand you a permanent place could
save in the memory of the adult. We can not resist, the motivation To complicate the plot for
a further review.

"Yes," said Paul, laughing ruefully, "and I provided most of them."

