 

Obstacles that a man can go through in a day such as hills or ridges, seem insignificant on the
earth's surface. But they have great historical value as natural boundaries between nations.
 Thus we see that there is in London a highly specialized and elaborate machinery
for making and dealing in these bills, which are the currency of international trade. Let us
recapitulate the history of the bill and see the part contributed to its career by each wheel
in the machine. We imagined a bill drawn by an Argentine seller against a cargo of wheat shipped
to an English merchant. The bill will be drawn on a London accepting house, to whom the English
merchant is liable for its due payment. The Argentine merchant, having drawn the bill, sells
it to the Buenos Ayres branch of a South American bank, formed with English capital, and having
its head office in London. It is shipped to London, to the head office of the South American
bank, which presents it for acceptance to the accepting house on which it is drawn, and then
sells it to a bill broker at the market rate of discount. If the bill is due three months after
sight, and is for £2000, and the market rate of discount is 4 per cent. for three months' bills,
the present value of the bill is obviously £1980. The bill broker, either at once or later,
probably sells the bill to a bank, which holds it as an investment until its due date, by which
time the importer having sold the wheat at a profit, pays the money required to meet the bill
to his banker and the transaction is closed. Thus by means of the bill the exporter has received
immediate payment for his wheat, the importing merchant has been supplied with credit for three
months in which to bring home his profit, and the bank which bought the bill has provided itself
with an investment such as bankers love, because it has to be met within a short period by
a house of first-rate standing.

All this elaborate, but easily working machinery has grown up for the service of commerce.
It is true that bills of exchange are often drawn by moneylenders abroad on moneylenders in
England merely in order to raise credit, that is to say, to borrow money by means of the London
discount market. Sometimes these credits are used for merely speculative purposes, but in the
great majority of cases they are wanted for the furtherance of production in the borrowing
country. The
bark is easily distinguished as being of a very rough variety. The branches are extremely gnarled and
there are not many leaves upon them. They are only able to persist in the harsher climates by growing
in close proximity to each other; thus providing some shelter to each other. Thus, the tops of these
trees form living bulwarks to protect their fellows that, once sundered,
expose the forest to the injuries of storm and weather. The bill whose imaginary history has been traced, came into being because the drawer
had a claim on England through a trade transaction. He was able to sell it to the South American
bank only because the bank knew that many other people in Argentina would have to make payments
to England and would come to it and ask it for drafts on London, which, by remitting this bill
to be sold in London, it would be able to supply. International finance is so often regarded
as a machinery by which paper wealth is manufactured out of nothing, that it is very important
to remember that all this paper wealth only acquires value by being ultimately based on something
that is grown or made and wanted to keep people alive or comfortable, or at least happy in
the belief that they have got something that they thought they wanted, or which habit or convention
obliged them to possess.

FOOTNOTES:

