WINDY MCPHERSON'S SON

BY

SHERWOOD ANDERSON

TO THE LIVING MEN AND WOMEN OF MY OWN MIDDLE WESTERN HOME TOWN THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED

WINDY MCPHERSON'S SON

BOOK I

CHAPTER I

At the beginning of the long twilight of a summer evening, Sam McPherson, a tall big-boned
boy of thirteen, with brown hair, black eyes, and an amusing little habit of tilting his chin
in the air as he walked, came upon the station platform of the little corn-shipping town of
Caxton in Iowa. It was a board platform, and the boy walked cautiously, lifting his bare feet
and putting them down with extreme deliberateness on the hot, dry, cracked planks. Under one
arm he carried a bundle of newspapers. A long black cigar was in his hand.

In front of the station he stopped; and Jerry Donlin, the baggage-man, seeing the cigar in
his hand, laughed, and slowly drew the side of his face up into a laboured wink.

"What is the game to-night, Sam?" he asked.

Sam stepped to the baggage-room door, handed him the cigar, and began giving directions, pointing
into the baggage-room, intent and business- like in the face of the Irishman's laughter. Then,
turning, he walked across the station platform to the main street of the town, his eyes bent
on the ends of his fingers on which he was making computations with his thumb. Jerry looked
after him, grinning so that his red gums made a splash of colour on his bearded face. A gleam
of paternal pride lit his eyes and he shook his head and muttered admiringly. Then, lighting
the cigar, he went down the platform to where a wrapped bundle of newspapers lay against the
building, under the window of the telegraph office, and taking it in his arm disappeared, still
grinning, into the baggage-room.

Sam McPherson walked down Main Street, past the shoe store, the bakery, and the candy store
kept by Penny Hughes, toward a group lounging at the front of Geiger's drug store. Before the
door of the shoe store he paused a moment, and taking a small note-book from his pocket ran
his finger down the pages, then shaking his head continued on his way, again absorbed in doing
sums on his fingers.

The singer, a short man with grotesquely wide shoulders, wore a long flowing moustache, and
a black coat, covered with dust, that reached to his knees. He held a smoking briar pipe in
his hand, and with it beat time for a row of men sitting on a long stone under the store window
and pounding on the sidewalk with their heels to make a chorus for the song. Sam's smile broadened
into a grin as he looked at the singer, Freedom Smith, a buyer of butter and eggs, and past
him at John Telfer, the orator, the dandy, the only man in town, except Mike McCarthy, who
kept his trousers creased. Among all the men of Caxton, Sam most admired John Telfer and in
his admiration had struck upon the town's high light. Telfer loved good clothes and wore them
with an air, and never allowed Caxton to see him shabbily or indifferently dressed, laughingly
declaring that it was his mission in life to give tone to the town.

John Telfer had a small income left him by his father, once a banker in the town, and in his
youth he had gone to New York to study art, and later to Paris; but lacking ability or industry
to get on had come back to Caxton where he had married Eleanor Millis, a prosperous milliner.
They were the most successful married pair in Caxton, and after years of life together they
were still in love; were never indifferent to each other, and never quarrelled; Telfer treated
his wife with as much consideration and respect as though she were a sweetheart, or a guest
in his house, and she, unlike most of the wives in Caxton, never ventured to question his goings
and comings, but left him free to live his own life in his own way while she attended to the
millinery business.

At the age of forty-five John Telfer was a tall, slender, fine looking man, with black hair
and a little black pointed beard, and with something lazy and care-free in his every movement
and impulse. Dressed in white flannels, with white shoes, a jaunty cap upon his head, eyeglasses
hanging from a gold chain, and a cane lightly swinging from his hand, he made a figure that
might have passed unnoticed on the promenade before some fashionable summer hotel, but that
seemed a breach of the laws of nature when seen on the streets of a corn-shipping town in Iowa.
And Telfer was aware of the extraordinary figure he cut; it was a part of his programme of
life. Now as Sam approached he laid a hand on Freedom Smith's shoulder to check the song, and,
with his eyes twinkling with good-humour, began thrusting with his cane at the boy's feet.

"He will never be ruler of the queen's navee," he declared, laughing and following the dancing
boy about in a wide circle. "He is a little mole that works underground intent upon worms.
The trick he has of tilting up his nose is only his way of smelling out stray pennies. I have
it from Banker Walker that he brings a basket of them into the bank every day. One of these
days he will buy the town and put it into his vest pocket."

Circling about on the stone sidewalk and dancing to escape the flying cane, Sam dodged under
the arm of Valmore, a huge old blacksmith with shaggy clumps of hair on the back of his hands,
and sought refuge between him and Freedom Smith. The blacksmith's hand stole out and lay upon
the boy's shoulder. Telfer, his legs spread apart and the cane hooked upon his arm, began rolling
a cigarette; Geiger, a yellow skinned man with fat cheeks and with hands clasped over his round
paunch, smoked a black cigar, and as he sent each puff into the air, grunted forth his satisfaction
with life. He was wishing that Telfer, Freedom Smith, and Valmore, instead of moving on to
their nightly nest at the back of Wildman's grocery, would come into his place for the evening.
He thought he would like to have the three of them there night after night discussing the doings
of the world.

Quiet once more settled down upon the sleepy street. Over Sam's shoulder, Valmore and Freedom
Smith talked of the coming corn crop and the growth and prosperity of the country.

"Times are getting better about here, but the wild things are almost gone," said Freedom, who
in the winter bought hides and pelts.

The men sitting on the stone beneath the window watched with idle interest Telfer's labours
with paper and tobacco. "Young Henry Kerns has got married," observed one of them, striving
to make talk. "He has married a girl from over Parkertown way. She gives lessons in painting--china
painting--kind of an artist, you know."

An ejaculation of disgust broke from Telfer: his fingers trembled and the tobacco that was
to have been the foundation of his evening smoke rained on the sidewalk.

"An artist!" he exclaimed, his voice tense with excitement. "Who said artist? Who called her
that?" He glared fiercely about. "Let us have an end to this blatant misuse of fine old words.
To say of one that he is an artist is to touch the peak of praise."

Throwing his cigarette paper after the scattered tobacco he thrust one hand into his trouser
pocket. With the other he held the cane, emphasising his points by ringing taps upon the pavement.
Geiger, taking the cigar between his fingers, listened with open mouth to the outburst that
followed. Valmore and Freedom Smith dropped their conversation and with broad smiles upon their
faces gave attention, and Sam McPherson, his eyes round with wonder and admiration, felt again
the thrill that always ran through him under the drum beats of Telfer's eloquence.

"An artist is one who hungers and thirsts after perfection, not one who dabs flowers upon plates
to choke the gullets of diners," declared Telfer, setting himself for one of the long speeches
with which he loved to astonish the men of Caxton, and glaring down at those seated upon the
stone. "It is the artist who, among all men, has the divine audacity. Does he not hurl himself
into a battle in which is engaged against him all of the accumulative genius of the world?"

Pausing, he looked about for an opponent upon whom he might pour the flood of his eloquence,
but on all sides smiles greeted him. Undaunted, he rushed again to the charge.

"A business man--what is he?" he demanded. "He succeeds by outwitting the little minds with
which he comes in contact. A scientist is of more account--he pits his brains against the dull
unresponsiveness of inanimate matter and a hundredweight of black iron he makes do the work
of a hundred housewives. But an artist tests his brains against the greatest brains of all
times; he stands upon the peak of life and hurls himself against the world. A girl from Parkertown
who paints flowers upon dishes to be called an artist--ugh! Let me spew forth the thought!
Let me cleanse my mouth! A man should have a prayer upon his lips who utters the word artist!"

"Well, we can't all be artists and the woman can paint flowers upon dishes for all I care,"
spoke up Valmore, laughing good naturedly. "We can't all paint pictures and write books."

"We do not want to be artists--we do not dare to be," shouted Telfer, whirling and shaking
his cane at Valmore. "You have a misunderstanding of the word."

He straightened his shoulders and threw out his chest and the boy standing beside the blacksmith
threw up his chin, unconsciously imitating the swagger of the man.

"I do not paint pictures; I do not write books; yet am I an artist," declared Telfer, proudly.
"I am an artist practising the most difficult of all arts--the art of living. Here in this
western village I stand and fling my challenge to the world. 'On the lip of not the greatest
of you,' I cry, 'has life been more sweet.'"

He turned from Valmore to the men upon the stone.

"Make a study of my life," he commanded. "It will be a revelation to you. With a smile I greet
the morning; I swagger in the noontime; and in the evening, like Socrates of old, I gather
a little group of you benighted villagers about me and toss wisdom into your teeth, striving
to teach you judgment in the use of great words."

"You talk an almighty lot about yourself, John," grumbled Freedom Smith, taking his pipe from
his mouth.

"The subject is complex, it is varied, it is full of charm," Telfer answered, laughing.

Taking a fresh supply of tobacco and paper from his pocket, he rolled and lighted a cigarette.
His fingers no longer trembled. Flourishing his cane he threw back his head and blew smoke
into the air. He thought that in spite of the roar of laughter that had greeted Freedom Smith's
comment, he had vindicated the honour of art and the thought made him happy.

To the newsboy, who had been leaning against the storefront lost in admiration, it seemed that
he had caught in Telfer's talk an echo of the kind of talk that must go on among men in the
big outside world. Had not this Telfer travelled far? Had he not lived in New York and Paris?
Without understanding the sense of what had been said, Sam felt that it must be something big
and conclusive. When from the distance there came the shriek of a locomotive, he stood unmoved,
trying to comprehend the meaning of Telfer's outburst over the lounger's simple statement.

"There's the seven forty-five," cried Telfer, sharply. "Is the war between you and Fatty at
an end? Are we going to lose our evening's diversion? Has Fatty bluffed you out or are you
growing rich and lazy like Papa Geiger here?"

Springing from his place beside the blacksmith and grasping the bundle of newspapers, Sam ran
down the street, Telfer, Valmore, Freedom Smith and the loungers following more slowly.

When the evening train from Des Moines stopped at Caxton, a blue-coated train news merchant
leaped hurriedly to the platform and began looking anxiously about.

"Hurry, Fatty," rang out Freedom Smith's huge voice, "Sam's already half through one car."

The young man called "Fatty" ran up and down the station platform. "Where is that bundle of
Omaha papers, you Irish loafer?" he shouted, shaking his fist at Jerry Donlin who stood upon
a truck at the front of the train, up- ending trunks into the baggage car.

Jerry paused with a trunk dangling in mid-air. "In the baggage-room, of course. Hurry, man.
Do you want the kid to work the whole train?"

An air of something impending hung over the idlers upon the platform, the train crew, and even
the travelling men who began climbing off the train. The engineer thrust his head out of the
cab; the conductor, a dignified looking man with a grey moustache, threw back his head and
shook with mirth; a young man with a suit-case in his hand and a long pipe in his mouth ran
to the door of the baggage-room, calling, "Hurry! Hurry, Fatty! The kid is working the entire
train. You won't be able to sell a paper."

The fat young man ran from the baggage-room to the platform and shouted again to Jerry Donlin,
who was now slowly pushing the empty truck along the platform. From the train came a clear
voice calling, "Latest Omaha papers! Have your change ready! Fatty, the train newsboy, has
fallen down a well! Have your change ready, gentlemen!"

Jerry Donlin, followed by Fatty, again disappeared from sight. The conductor, waving his hand,
jumped upon the steps of the train. The engineer pulled in his head and the train began to move.

The fat young man emerged from the baggage-room, swearing revenge upon the head of Jerry Donlin.
"There was no need to put it under a mail sack!" he shouted, shaking his fist. "I'll be even
with you for this."

Followed by the shouts of the travelling men and the laughter of the idlers upon the platform
he climbed upon the moving train and began running from car to car. Off the last car dropped
Sam McPherson, a smile upon his lips, the bundle of newspapers gone, his pocket jingling with
coins. The evening's entertainment for the town of Caxton was at an end.

John Telfer, standing by the side of Valmore, waved his cane in the air and began talking.

"Beat him again, by Gad!" he exclaimed. "Bully for Sam! Who says the spirit of the old buccaneers
is dead? That boy didn't understand what I said about art, but he is an artist just the same!"

CHAPTER II

Windy McPherson, the father of the Caxton newsboy, Sam McPherson, had been war touched. The
civilian clothes that he wore caused an itching of the skin. He could not forget that he had
once been a sergeant in a regiment of infantry and had commanded a company through a battle
fought in ditches along a Virginia country road. He chafed under the fact of his present obscure
position in life. Had he been able to replace his regimentals with the robes of a judge, the
felt hat of a statesman, or even with the night stick of a village marshal life might have
retained something of its sweetness, but to have ended by becoming an obscure housepainter
in a village that lived by raising corn and by feeding that corn to red steers --ugh!--the
thought made him shudder. He looked with envy at the blue coat and the brass buttons of the
railroad agent; he tried vainly to get into the Caxton Cornet Band; he got drunk to forget
his humiliation and in the end he fell to loud boasting and to the nursing of a belief within
himself that in truth not Lincoln nor Grant but he himself had thrown the winning die in the
great struggle. In his cups he said as much and the Caxton corn grower, punching his neighbour
in the ribs, shook with delight over the statement.

When Sam was a twelve year old, barefooted boy upon the streets a kind of backwash of the wave
of glory that had swept over Windy McPherson in the days of '61 lapped upon the shores of the
Iowa village. That strange manifestation called the A. P. A. movement brought the old soldier
to a position of prominence in the community. He founded a local branch of the organisation;
he marched at the head of a procession through the streets; he stood on a corner and pointing
a trembling forefinger to where the flag on the schoolhouse waved beside the cross of Rome,
shouted hoarsely, "See, the cross rears itself above the flag! We shall end by being murdered
in our beds!"

But although some of the hard-headed, money-making men of Caxton joined the movement started
by the boasting old soldier and although for the moment they vied with him in stealthy creepings
through the streets to secret meetings and in mysterious mutterings behind hands the movement
subsided as suddenly as it had begun and only left its leader more desolate.

In the little house at the end of the street by the shores of Squirrel Creek, Sam and his sister
Kate regarded their father's warlike pretensions with scorn. "The butter is low, father's army
leg will ache to-night," they whispered to each other across the kitchen table.

Following her mother's example, Kate, a tall slender girl of sixteen and already a bread winner
with a clerkship in Winney's drygoods store, remained silent under Windy's boasting, but Sam,
striving to emulate them, did not always succeed. There was now and then a rebellious muttering
that should have warned Windy. It had once burst into an open quarrel in which the victor of
a hundred battles withdrew defeated from the field. Windy, half-drunk, had taken an old account
book from a shelf in the kitchen, a relic of his days as a prosperous merchant when he had
first come to Caxton, and had begun reading to the little family a list of names of men who,
he claimed, had been the cause of his ruin.

"There is Tom Newman, now," he exclaimed excitedly. "Owns a hundred acres of good corn-growing
land and won't pay for the harness on the backs of his horses or for the ploughs in his barn.
The receipt he has from me is forged. I could put him in prison if I chose. To beat an old
soldier!--to beat one of the boys of '61!--it is shameful!"

"I have heard of what you owed and what men owed you; you had none the worst of it," Sam protested
coldly, while Kate held her breath and Jane McPherson, at work over the ironing board in the
corner, half turned and looked silently at the man and the boy, the slightly increased pallor
of her long face the only sign that she had heard.

Windy had not pressed the quarrel. Standing for a moment in the middle of the kitchen, holding
the book in his hand, he looked from the pale silent mother by the ironing board to the son
now standing and staring at him, and, throwing the book upon the table with a bang, fled the
house. "You don't understand," he had cried, "you don't understand the heart of a soldier."

In a way the man was right. The two children did not understand the blustering, pretending,
inefficient old man. Having moved shoulder to shoulder with grim, silent men to the consummation
of great deeds Windy could not get the flavour of those days out of his outlook upon life.
Walking half drunk in the darkness along the sidewalks of Caxton on the evening of the quarrel
the man became inspired. He threw back his shoulders and walked with martial tread; he drew
an imaginary sword from its scabbard and waved it aloft; stopping, he aimed carefully at a
body of imaginary men who advanced yelling toward him across a wheatfield; he felt that life
in making him a housepainter in a farming village in Iowa and in giving him an unappreciative
son had been cruelly unfair; he wept at the injustice of it.

The American Civil War was a thing so passionate, so inflaming, so vast, so absorbing, it so
touched to the quick the men and women of those pregnant days that but a faint echo of it has
been able to penetrate down to our days and to our minds; no real sense of it has as yet crept
into the pages of a printed book; it yet wants its Thomas Carlyle; and in the end we are put
to the need of listening to old fellows boasting on our village streets to get upon our cheeks
the living breath of it. For four years the men of American cities, villages and farms walked
across the smoking embers of a burning land, advancing and receding as the flame of that universal,
passionate, death-spitting thing swept down upon them or receded toward the smoking sky-line.
Is it so strange that they could not come home and begin again peacefully painting houses or
mending broken shoes? A something in them cried out. It sent them to bluster and boast upon
the street corners. When people passing continued to think only of their brick laying and of
their shovelling of corn into cars, when the sons of these war gods walking home at evening
and hearing the vain boastings of the fathers began to doubt even the facts of the great struggle,
a something snapped in their brains and they fell to chattering and shouting their vain boastings
to all as they looked hungrily about for believing eyes.

When our own Thomas Carlyle comes to write of our Civil War he will make much of our Windy
McPhersons. He will see something big and pathetic in their hungry search for auditors and
in their endless war talk. He will go filled with eager curiosity into little G. A. R. halls
in the villages and think of the men who coming there night after night, year after year, told
and re-told endlessly, monotonously, their story of battle.

Let us hope that in his fervour for the old fellows he will not fail to treat tenderly the
families of those veteran talkers; the families that with their breakfasts and their dinners,
by the fire at evening, through fast day and feast day, at weddings and at funerals got again
and again endlessly, everlastingly this flow of war words. Let him reflect that peaceful men
in corn-growing counties do not by choice sleep among the dogs of war nor wash their linen
in the blood of their country's foe. Let him, in his sympathy with the talkers, remember with
kindness the heroism of the listeners.

       *       *       *       *       *

On a summer day Sam McPherson sat on a box before Wildman's grocery lost in thought. In his
hand he held the little yellow account book and in this he buried himself, striving to wipe
from his consciousness a scene being enacted before his eyes upon the street.

The realisation of the fact that his father was a confirmed liar and braggart had for years
cast a shadow over his days and the shadow had been made blacker by the fact that in a land
where the least fortunate can laugh in the face of want he had more than once stood face to
face with poverty. He believed that the logical answer to the situation was money in the bank
and with all the ardour of his boy's heart he strove to realise that answer. He wanted to be
a money-maker and the totals at the foot of the pages in the soiled yellow bankbook were the
milestones that marked the progress he had already made. They told him that the daily struggles
with Fatty, the long tramps through Caxton's streets on bleak winter evenings, and the never-ending
Saturday nights when crowds filled the stores, the sidewalks, and the drinking places, and
he worked among them tirelessly and persistently were not without fruit.

Suddenly, above the murmur of men's voices on the street, his father's voice rose loud and
insistent. A block further down the street, leaning against the door of Hunter's jewelry store,
Windy talked at the top of his lungs, pumping his arms up and down with the air of a man making
a stump speech.

"He is making a fool of himself," thought Sam, and returned to his bankbook, striving in the
contemplation of the totals at the foot of the pages to shake off the dull anger that had begun
to burn in his brain. Glancing up again, he saw that Joe Wildman, son of the grocer and a boy
of his own age, had joined the group of men laughing and jeering at Windy. The shadow on Sam's
face grew heavier.

Sam had been at Joe Wildman's house; he knew the air of plenty and of comfort that hung over
it; the table piled high with meat and potatoes; the group of children laughing and eating
to the edge of gluttony; the quiet, gentle father who amid the clamour and the noise did not
raise his voice, and the well-dressed, bustling, rosy-cheeked mother. As a contrast to this
scene he began to call up in his mind a picture of life in his own home, getting a kind of
perverted pleasure out of his dissatisfaction with it. He saw the boasting, incompetent father
telling his endless tales of the Civil War and complaining of his wounds; the tall, stoop-shouldered,
silent mother with the deep lines in her long face, everlastingly at work over her washtub
among the soiled clothes; the silent, hurriedly-eaten meals snatched from the kitchen table;
and the long winter days when ice formed upon his mother's skirts and Windy idled about town
while the little family subsisted upon bowls of cornmeal mush everlastingly repeated.

Now, even from where he sat, he could see that his father was half gone in drink, and knew
that he was boasting of his part in the Civil War. "He is either doing that or telling of his
aristocratic family or lying about his birthplace," he thought resentfully, and unable any
longer to endure the sight of what seemed to him his own degradation, he got up and went into
the grocery where a group of Caxton citizens stood talking to Wildman of a meeting to be held
that morning at the town hall.

Caxton was to have a Fourth of July celebration. The idea, born in the heads of the few, had
been taken up by the many. Rumours of it had run through the streets late in May. It had been
talked of in Geiger's drug store, at the back of Wildman's grocery, and in the street before
the New Leland House. John Telfer, the town's one man of leisure, had for weeks been going
from place to place discussing the details with prominent men. Now a mass meeting was to be
held in the hall over Geiger's drug store and to a man the citizens of Caxton had turned out
for the meeting. The housepainter had come down off his ladder, the clerks were locking the
doors of the stores, men went along the streets in groups bound for the hall. As they went
they shouted to each other. "The old town has woke up," they called.

On a corner by Hunter's jewelry store Windy McPherson leaned against a building and harangued
the passing crowd.

"Let the old flag wave," he shouted excitedly, "let the men of Caxton show the true blue and
rally to the old standards."

"That's right, Windy, expostulate with them," shouted a wit, and a roar of laughter drowned
Windy's reply.

Sam McPherson also went to the meeting in the hall. He came out of the grocery store with Wildman
and went along the street looking at the sidewalk and trying not to see the drunken man talking
in front of the jewelry store. At the hall other boys stood in the stairway or ran up and down
the sidewalk talking excitedly, but Sam was a figure in the town's life and his right to push
in among the men was not questioned. He squirmed through the mass of legs and secured a seat
in a window ledge where he could watch the men come in and find seats.

As Caxton's one newsboy Sam had got from his newspaper selling both a living and a kind of
standing in the town's life. To be a newsboy or a bootblack in a small novel-reading American
town is to make a figure in the world. Do not all of the poor newsboys in the books become
great men and is not this boy who goes among us so industriously day after day likely to become
such a figure? Is it not a duty we of the town owe to future greatness that we push him forward?
So reasoned the men of Caxton and paid a kind of court to the boy who sat on the window ledge
of the hall while the other boys of the town waited on the sidewalk below.

John Telfer was chairman of the mass meeting. He was always chairman of public meetings in
Caxton. The industrious silent men of position in the town envied his easy, bantering style
of public address, while pretending to treat it with scorn. "He talks too much," they said,
making a virtue of their own inability with apt and clever words.

Telfer did not wait to be appointed chairman of the meeting, but went forward, climbed the
little raised platform at the end of the hall, and usurped the chairmanship. He walked up and
down on the platform bantering with the crowd, answering gibes, calling to well-known men,
getting and giving keen satisfaction with his talent. When the hall was filled with men he
called the meeting to order, appointed committees and launched into a harangue. He told of
plans made to advertise the big day in other towns and to get low railroad rates arranged for
excursion parties. The programme, he said, included a musical carnival with brass bands from
other towns, a sham battle by the military company at the fairgrounds, horse races, speeches
from the steps of the town hall, and fireworks in the evening. "We'll show them a live town
here," he declared, walking up and down the platform and swinging his cane, while the crowd
applauded and shouted its approval.

When a call came for voluntary subscriptions to pay for the fun, the audience quieted down.
One or two men got up and started to go out, grumbling that it was a waste of money. The fate
of the celebration was on the knees of the gods.

Telfer arose to the occasion. He called out the names of the departing, and made jests at their
expense so that they dropped back into their chairs unable to face the roaring laughter of
the crowd, and shouted to a man at the back of the hall to close and bolt the door. Men began
getting up in various parts of the hall and calling out sums, Telfer repeating the name and
the amount in a loud voice to young Tom Jedrow, clerk in the bank, who wrote them down in a
book. When the amount subscribed did not meet with his approval, he protested and the crowd
backing him up forced the increase he demanded. When a man did not rise, he shouted at him
and the man answered back an amount.

Suddenly in the hall a diversion arose. Windy McPherson emerged from the crowd at the back
of the hall and walked down the centre aisle to the platform. He walked unsteadily straightening
his shoulders and thrusting out his chin. When he got to the front of the hall he took a roll
of bills from his pocket and threw it on the platform at the chairman's feet. "From one of
the boys of '61," he announced in a loud voice.

The crowd shouted and clapped its hands with delight as Telfer picked up the bills and ran
his finger over them. "Seventeen dollars from our hero, the mighty McPherson," he shouted while
the bank clerk wrote the name and the amount in the book and the crowd continued to make merry
over the title given the drunken soldier by the chairman.

The boy on the window ledge slipped to the floor and stood with burning cheeks behind the mass
of men. He knew that at home his mother was doing a family washing for Lesley, the shoe merchant,
who had given five dollars to the Fourth-of-July fund, and the resentment he had felt on seeing
his father talking to the crowd before the jewelry store blazed up anew.

After the taking of subscriptions, men in various parts of the hall began making suggestions
for added features for the great day. To some of the speakers the crowd listened respectfully,
at others they hooted. An old man with a grey beard told a long rambling story of a Fourth-of-July
celebration of his boyhood. When voices interrupted he protested and shook his fist in the
air, pale with indignation.

"Oh, sit down, old daddy," shouted Freedom Smith and a murmur of applause greeted this sensible
suggestion.

Another man got up and began to talk. He had an idea. "We will have," he said, "a bugler mounted
on a white horse who will ride through the town at dawn blowing the reveille. At midnight he
will stand on the steps of the town hall and blow taps to end the day."

The crowd applauded. The idea had caught their fancy and had instantly taken a place in their
minds as one of the real events of the day.

Again Windy McPherson emerged from the crowd at the back of the hall. Raising his hand for
silence he told the crowd that he was a bugler, that he had been a regimental bugler for two
years during the Civil War. He said that he would gladly volunteer for the place.

The crowd shouted and John Telfer waved his hand. "The white horse for you, McPherson," he said.

Sam McPherson wriggled along the wall and out at the now unbolted door. He was filled with
astonishment at his father's folly, and was still more astonished at the folly of these other
men in accepting his statement and handing over the important place for the big day. He knew
that his father must have had some part in the war as he was a member of the G. A. R., but
he had no faith at all in the stories he had heard him relate of his experiences in the war.
Sometimes he caught himself wondering if there ever had been such a war and thought that it
must be a lie like everything else in the life of Windy McPherson. For years he had wondered
why some sensible solid person like Valmore or Wildman did not rise, and in a matter-of-fact
way tell the world that no such thing as the Civil War had ever been fought, that it was merely
a figment in the minds of pompous old men demanding unearned glory of their fellows. Now hurrying
along the street with burning cheeks, he decided that after all there must have been such a
war. He had had the same feeling about birthplaces and there could be no doubt that people
were born. He had heard his father claim as his birthplace Kentucky, Texas, North Carolina,
Louisiana and Scotland. The thing had left a kind of defect in his mind. To the end of his
life when he heard a man tell the place of his birth he looked up suspiciously, and a shadow
of doubt crossed his mind.

From the mass meeting Sam went home to his mother and presented the case bluntly. "The thing
will have to be stopped," he declared, standing with blazing eyes before her washtub. "It is
too public. He can't blow a bugle; I know he can't. The whole town will have another laugh
at our expense."

Jane McPherson listened in silence to the boy's outburst, then, turning, went back to rubbing
clothes, avoiding his eyes.

With his hands thrust into his trousers pocket Sam stared sullenly at the ground. A sense of
justice told him not to press the matter, but as he walked away from the washtub and out at
the kitchen door, he hoped there would be plain talk of the matter at supper time. "The old
fool!" he protested, addressing the empty street. "He is going to make a show of himself again."

When Windy McPherson came home that evening, something in the eyes of the silent wife, and
the sullen face of the boy, startled him. He passed over lightly his wife's silence but looked
closely at his son. He felt that he faced a crisis. In the emergency he was magnificent. With
a flourish, he told of the mass meeting, and declared that the citizens of Caxton had arisen
as one man to demand that he take the responsible place as official bugler. Then, turning,
he glared across the table at his son.

Sam, openly defiant, announced that he did not believe his father capable of blowing a bugle.

Windy roared with amazement. He rose from the table declaring in a loud voice that the boy
had wronged him; he swore that he had been for two years bugler on the staff of a colonel,
and launched into a long story of a surprise by the enemy while his regiment lay asleep in
their tents, and of his standing in the face of a storm of bullets and blowing his comrades
to action. Putting one hand on his forehead he rocked back and forth as though about to fall,
declaring that he was striving to keep back the tears wrenched from him by the injustice of
his son's insinuation and, shouting so that his voice carried far down the street, he declared
with an oath that the town of Caxton should ring and echo with his bugling as the sleeping
camp had echoed with it that night in the Virginia wood. Then dropping again into his chair,
and resting his head upon his hand, he assumed a look of patient resignation.

Windy McPherson was victorious. In the little house a great stir and bustle of preparation
arose. Putting on his white overalls and forgetting for the time his honourable wounds the
father went day after day to his work as a housepainter. He dreamed of a new blue uniform for
the great day and in the end achieved the realisation of his dreams, not however without material
assistance from what was known in the house as "Mother's Wash Money." And the boy, convinced
by the story of the midnight attack in the woods of Virginia, began against his judgment to
build once more an old dream of his father's reformation. Boylike, the scepticism was thrown
to the winds and he entered with zeal into the plans for the great day. As he went through
the quiet residence streets delivering the late evening papers, he threw back his head and
revelled in the thought of a tall blue- clad figure on a great white horse passing like a knight
before the gaping people. In a fervent moment he even drew money from his carefully built-up
bank account and sent it to a firm in Chicago to pay for a shining new bugle that would complete
the picture he had in his mind. And when the evening papers were distributed he hurried home
to sit on the porch before the house discussing with his sister Kate the honours that had alighted
upon their family.

       *       *       *       *       *

With the coming of dawn on the great day the three McPhersons hurried hand in hand toward Main
Street. In the street, on all sides of them, they saw people coming out of houses rubbing their
eyes and buttoning their coats as they went along the sidewalk. All of Caxton seemed abroad.

In Main Street the people were packed on the sidewalk, and massed on the curb and in the doorways
of the stores. Heads appeared at windows, flags waved from roofs or hung from ropes stretched
across the street, and a great murmur of voices broke the silence of the dawn.

Sam's heart beat so that he was hard put to it to keep back the tears from his eyes. He thought
with a gasp of the days of anxiety that had passed when the new bugle had not come from the
Chicago company, and in retrospect he suffered again the horror of the days of waiting. It
had been all important. He could not blame his father for raving and shouting about the house,
he himself had felt like raving, and had put another dollar of his savings into telegrams before
the treasure was finally in his hands. Now, the thought that it might not have come sickened
him, and a little prayer of thankfulness rose from his lips. To be sure one might have been
secured from a nearby town, but not a new shining one to go with his father's new blue uniform.

A cheer broke from the crowd massed along the street. Into the street rode
a tall figure seated upon a white horse. The horse was from Culvert's
livery and the boys there had woven ribbons into its mane and tail. Windy
McPherson, sitting very straight in the saddle and looking wonderfully
striking in the new blue uniform and the broad-brimmed campaign hat, had
the air of a conqueror come to receive the homage of the town.
 He wore a gold band across his chest and against his hip rested the
shining bugle. With stern eyes he looked down upon the people.

The lump in the throat of the boy hurt more and more. A great wave of pride ran over him, submerging
him. In a moment he forgot all the past humiliations the father had brought upon his family,
and understood why his mother remained silent when he, in his blindness, had wanted to protest
against her seeming indifference. Glancing furtively up he saw a tear lying upon her cheek
and felt that he too would like to sob aloud his pride and happiness.

Slowly and with stately stride the horse walked up the street between the rows of silent waiting
people. In front of the town hall the tall military figure, rising in the saddle, took one
haughty look at the multitude, and then, putting the bugle to his lips, blew.

Out of the bugle came only a thin piercing shriek followed by a squawk. Again Windy put the
bugle to his lips and again the same dismal squawk was his only reward. On his face was a look
of helpless boyish astonishment.

And in a moment the people knew. It was only another of Windy McPherson's pretensions. He couldn't
blow a bugle at all.

A great shout of laughter rolled down the street. Men and women sat on the curbstones and laughed
until they were tired. Then, looking at the figure upon the motionless horse, they laughed again.

Windy looked about him with troubled eyes. It is doubtful if he had ever had a bugle to his
lips until that moment, but he was filled with wonder and astonishment that the reveille did
not roll forth. He had heard the thing a thousand times and had it clearly in his mind; with
all his heart he wanted it to roll forth, and could picture the street ringing with it and
the applause of the people; the thing, he felt, was in him, and it was only a fatal blunder
in nature that it did not come out at the flaring end of the bugle. He was amazed at this dismal
end of his great moment--he was always amazed and helpless before facts.

The crowd began gathering about the motionless, astonished figure, laughter continuing to send
them off into something near convulsions. Grasping the bridle of the horse, John Telfer began
leading it off up the street. Boys whooped and shouted at the rider, "Blow! Blow!"

The three McPhersons stood in a doorway leading into a shoe store. The boy and the mother,
white and speechless with humiliation, dared not look at each other. In the flood of shame
sweeping over them they stared straight before them with hard, stony eyes.

The procession led by John Telfer at the bridle of the white horse marched down the street.
Looking up, the eyes of the laughing, shouting man met those of the boy and a look of pain
shot across his face. Dropping the bridle he hurried away through the crowd. The procession
moved on, and watching their chance the mother and the two children crept home along side streets,
Kate weeping bitterly. Leaving them at the door Sam went straight on down a sandy road toward
a small wood. "I've got my lesson. I've got my lesson," he muttered over and over as he went.

At the edge of the wood he stopped and leaning on a rail fence watched until he saw his mother
come out to the pump in the back yard. She had begun to draw water for the day's washing. For
her also the holiday was at an end. A flood of tears ran down the boy's cheeks, and he shook
his fist in the direction of the town. "You may laugh at that fool Windy, but you shall never
laugh at Sam McPherson," he cried, his voice shaking with excitement.

CHAPTER III

One evening, when he had grown so that he outtopped Windy, Sam McPherson returned from his
paper route to find his mother arrayed in her black, church-going dress. An evangelist was
at work in Caxton and she had decided to hear him. Sam shuddered. In the house it was an understood
thing that when Jane McPherson went to church her son went with her. There was nothing said.
Jane McPherson did all things without words, always there was nothing said. Now she stood waiting
in her black dress when her son came in at the door and he hurriedly put on his best clothes
and went with her to the brick church.

Valmore, John Telfer, and Freedom Smith, who had taken upon themselves a kind of common guardianship
of the boy and with whom he spent evening after evening at the back of Wildman's grocery, did
not go to church. They talked of religion and seemed singularly curious and interested in what
other men thought on the subject but they did not allow themselves to be coaxed into a house
of worship. To the boy, who had become a fourth member of the evening gatherings at the back
of the grocery store, they would not talk of God, answering the direct questions he sometimes
asked by changing the subject. Once Telfer, the reader of poetry, answered the boy. "Sell papers
and fill your pockets with money but let your soul sleep," he said sharply.

In the absence of the others Wildman talked more freely. He was a spiritualist and tried to
make Sam see the beauties of that faith. On long summer afternoons the grocer and the boy spent
hours driving through the streets in a rattling old delivery wagon, the man striving earnestly
to make clear to the boy the shadowy ideas of God that were in his mind.

Although Windy McPherson had been the leader of a Bible class in his youth, and had been a
moving spirit at revival meetings during his early days in Caxton, he no longer went to church
and his wife did not ask him to go. On Sunday mornings he lay abed. If there was work to be
done about the house or yard he complained of his wounds. He complained of his wounds when
the rent fell due, and when there was a shortage of food in the house. Later in his life and
after the death of Jane McPherson the old soldier married the widow of a farmer by whom he
had four children and with whom he went to church twice on Sunday. Kate wrote Sam one of her
infrequent letters about it. "He has met his match," she said, and was tremendously pleased.

In church on Sunday mornings Sam went regularly to sleep, putting his head on his mother's
arm and sleeping throughout the service. Jane McPherson loved to have the boy there beside
her. It was the one thing in life they did together and she did not mind his sleeping the time
away. Knowing how late he had been upon the streets at the paper selling on Saturday evenings,
she looked at him with eyes filled with tenderness and sympathy. Once the minister, a man with
brown beard and hard, tightly-closed mouth, spoke to her. "Can't you keep him awake?" he asked
impatiently. "He needs the sleep," she said and hurried past the minister and out of the church,
looking ahead of her and frowning.

The evening of the evangelist meeting was a summer evening fallen on a winter month. All day
the warm winds had come up from the southwest. Mud lay soft and deep in the streets and among
the little pools of water on the sidewalks were dry spots from which steam arose. Nature had
forgotten herself. A day that should have sent old fellows to their nests behind stoves in
stores sent them forth to loaf in the sun. The night fell warm and cloudy. A thunder storm
threatened in the month of February.

Sam walked along the sidewalk with his mother bound for the brick church, wearing a new grey
overcoat. The night did not demand the overcoat but Sam wore it out of an excess of pride in
its possession. The overcoat had an air. It had been made by Gunther the tailor after a design
sketched on the back of a piece of wrapping paper by John Telfer and had been paid for out
of the newsboy's savings. The little German tailor, after a talk with Valmore and Telfer, had
made it at a marvellously low price. Sam swaggered as he walked.

He did not sleep in church that evening; indeed he found the quiet church filled with a medley
of strange noises. Folding carefully the new coat and laying it beside him on the seat he looked
with interest at the people, feeling within him something of the nervous excitement with which
the air was charged. The evangelist, a short, athletic-looking man in a grey business suit,
seemed to the boy out of place in the church. He had the assured business-like air of the travelling
men who come to the New Leland House, and Sam thought he looked like a man who had goods to
be sold. He did not stand quietly back of the pulpit giving out the text as did the brown-bearded
minister, nor did he sit with closed eyes and clasped hands waiting for the choir to finish
singing. While the choir sang he ran up and down the platform waving his arms and shouting
excitedly to the people on the church benches, "Sing! Sing! Sing! For the glory of God, sing!"

When the song was finished, he began talking, quietly at first, of life in the town. As he
talked he grew more and more excited. "The town is a cesspool of vice!" he shouted. "It reeks
with evil! The devil counts it a suburb of hell!"

His voice rose, and sweat ran off his face. A sort of frenzy seized him. He pulled off his
coat and throwing it over a chair ran up and down the platform and into the aisles among the
people, shouting, threatening, pleading. People began to stir uneasily in their seats. Jane
McPherson stared stonily at the back of the woman in front of her. Sam was horribly frightened.

The newsboy of Caxton was not without a hunger for religion. Like all boys he thought much
and often of death. In the night he sometimes awakened cold with fear, thinking that death
must be just without the door of his room waiting for him. When in the winter he had a cold
and coughed, he trembled at the thought of tuberculosis. Once, when he was taken with a fever,
he fell asleep and dreamed that he had died and was walking on the trunk of a fallen tree over
a ravine filled with lost souls that shrieked with terror. When he awoke he prayed. Had some
one come into his room and heard his prayer he would have been ashamed.

On winter evenings as he walked through the dark streets with the papers under his arm he thought
of his soul. As he thought a tenderness came over him; a lump came into his throat and he pitied
himself; he felt that there was something missing in his life, something he wanted very badly.

Under John Telfer's influence, the boy, who had quit school to devote himself to money making,
read Walt Whitman and had a season of admiring his own body with its straight white legs, and
the head that was poised so jauntily on the body. Sometimes he would awaken on summer nights
and be so filled with strange longing that he would creep out of bed and, pushing open the
window, sit upon the floor, his bare legs sticking out beyond his white nightgown, and, thus
sitting, yearn eagerly toward some fine impulse, some call, some sense of bigness and of leadership
that was absent from the necessities of the life he led. He looked at the stars and listened
to the night noises, so filled with longing that the tears sprang to his eyes.

Once, after the affair of the bugle, Jane McPherson had been ill--and the first touch of the
finger of death reaching out to her--had sat with her son in the warm darkness in the little
grass plot at the front of the house. It was a clear, warm, starlit evening without a moon,
and as the two sat closely together a sense of the coming of death crept over the mother.

At the evening meal Windy McPherson had talked voluminously, ranting and shouting about the
house. He said that a housepainter who had a real sense of colour had no business trying to
work in a hole like Caxton. He had been in trouble with a housewife about a colour he had mixed
for painting a porch floor and at his own table he raved about the woman and what he declared
her lack of even a primitive sense of colour. "I am sick of it all," he shouted, going out
of the house and up the street with uncertain steps. His wife had been unmoved by his outburst,
but in the presence of the quiet boy whose chair touched her own she trembled with a strange
new fear and began to talk of the life after death, making effort after effort to get at what
she wanted to say, and only succeeding in finding expression for her thoughts in little sentences
broken by long painful pauses. She told the boy she had no doubt at all that there was some
kind of future life and that she believed she should see and live with him again after they
had finished with this world.

One day the minister who had been annoyed because he had slept in his church, stopped Sam on
the street to talk to him of his soul. He said that the boy should be thinking of making himself
one of the brothers in Christ by joining the church. Sam listened silently to the talk of the
man, whom he instinctively disliked, but in his silence felt there was something insincere.
With all his heart he wanted to repeat a sentence he had heard from the lips of grey-haired,
big-fisted Valmore--"How can they believe and not lead a life of simple, fervent devotion to
their belief?" He thought himself superior to the thin-lipped man who talked with him and had
he been able to express what was in his heart he might have said, "Look here, man! I am made
of different stuff from all the people there at the church. I am new clay to be moulded into
a new man. Not even my mother is like me. I do not accept your ideas of life just because you
say they are good any more than I accept Windy McPherson just because he happens to be my father."

During one winter Sam spent evening after evening reading the Bible in his room. It was after
Kate's marriage--she had got into an affair with a young farmer that had kept her name upon
the tongues of whisperers for months but was now a housewife on a farm at the edge of a village
some miles from Caxton, and the mother was again at her endless task among the soiled clothes
in the kitchen and Windy McPherson off drinking and boasting about town. Sam read the book
in secret. He had a lamp on a little stand beside his bed and a novel, lent him by John Telfer,
beside it. When his mother came up the stairway he slipped the Bible under the cover of the
bed and became absorbed in the novel. He thought it something not quite in keeping with his
aims as a business man and a money getter to be concerned about his soul. He wanted to conceal
his concern but with all his heart wanted to get hold of the message of the strange book, about
which men wrangled hour after hour on winter evenings in the store.

He did not get it; and after a time he stopped reading the book. Left to himself he might have
sensed its meaning, but on all sides of him were the voices of the men--the men at Wildman's
who owned to no faith and yet were filled with dogmatisms as they talked behind the stove in
the grocery; the brown-bearded, thin-lipped minister in the brick church; the shouting, pleading
evangelists who came to visit the town in the winter; the gentle old grocer who talked vaguely
of the spirit world,--all these voices were at the mind of the boy pleading, insisting, demanding,
not that Christ's simple message that men love one another to the end, that they work together
for the common good, be accepted, but that their own complex interpretation of his word be
taken to the end that souls be saved.

In the end the boy of Caxton got to the place where he had a dread of the word soul. It seemed
to him that the mention of the word in conversation was something shameful and to think of
the word or the shadowy something for which the word stood an act of cowardice. In his mind
the soul became a thing to be hidden away, covered up, not thought of. One might be allowed
to speak of the matter at the moment of death, but for the healthy man or boy to have the thought
of his soul in his mind or word of it on his lips--one might better become blatantly profane
and go to the devil with a swagger. With delight he imagined himself as dying and with his
last breath tossing a round oath into the air of his death chamber.

In the meantime Sam continued to have inexplicable longings and hopes. He kept surprising himself
by the changing aspect of his own viewpoint of life. He found himself indulging in the most
petty meannesses, and following these with flashes of a kind of loftiness of mind. Looking
at a girl passing in the street, he had unbelievably mean thoughts; and the next day, passing
the same girl, a line caught from the babbling of John Telfer came to his lips and he went
his way muttering, "June's twice June since she breathed it with me."

And then into the complex nature of this boy came the sex motive. Already he dreamed of having
women in his arms. He looked shyly at the ankles of women crossing the street, and listened
eagerly when the crowd about the stove in Wildman's fell to telling smutty stories. He sank
to unbelievable depths of triviality in sordidness, looking shyly into dictionaries for words
that appealed to the animal lust in his queerly perverted mind and, when he came across it,
lost entirely the beauty of the old Bible tale of Ruth in the suggestion of intimacy between
man and woman that it brought to him. And yet Sam McPherson was no evil-minded boy. He had,
as a matter of fact, a quality of intellectual honesty that appealed strongly to the clean-minded,
simple-hearted old blacksmith Valmore; he had awakened something like love in the hearts of
the women school teachers in the Caxton schools, at least one of whom continued to interest
herself in him, taking him with her on walks along country roads, and talking to him constantly
of the development of his mind; and he was the friend and boon companion of Telfer, the dandy,
the reader of poems, the keen lover of life. The boy was struggling to find himself. One night
when the sex call kept him awake he got up and dressed, and went and stood in the rain by the
creek in Miller's pasture. The wind swept the rain across the face of the water and a sentence
flashed through his mind: "The little feet of the rain run on the water." There was a quality
of almost lyrical beauty in the Iowa boy.

And this boy, who couldn't get hold of his impulse toward God, whose sex impulses made him
at times mean, at times full of beauty, and who had decided that the impulse toward bargaining
and money getting was the impulse in him most worth cherishing, now sat beside his mother in
church and watched with wide-open eyes the man who took off his coat, who sweated profusely,
and who called the town in which he lived a cesspool of vice and its citizens wards of the devil.

The evangelist from talking of the town began talking instead of heaven and hell and his earnestness
caught the attention of the listening boy who began seeing pictures.

Into his mind there came a picture of a burning pit of fire in which great flames leaped about
the heads of the people who writhed in the pit. "Art Sherman would be there," thought Sam,
materialising the picture he saw; "nothing can save him; he keeps a saloon."

Filled with pity for the man he saw in the picture of the burning pit, his mind centered on
the person of Art Sherman. He liked Art Sherman. More than once he had felt the touch of human
kindness in the man. The roaring, blustering saloonkeeper had helped the boy sell and collect
for newspapers. "Pay the kid or get out of the place," the red-faced man roared at drunken
men leaning on the bar.

And then, looking into the burning pit, Sam thought of Mike McCarthy, for whom he had at that
moment a kind of passion akin to a young girl's blind devotion to her lover. With a shudder
he realised that Mike also would go into the pit, for he had heard Mike laughing at churches
and declaring there was no God.

The evangelist ran upon the platform and called to the people demanding that they stand upon
their feet. "Stand up for Jesus," he shouted; "stand up and be counted among the host of the
Lord God."

In the church people began getting to their feet. Jane McPherson stood with the others. Sam
did not stand. He crept behind his mother's dress, hoping to pass through the storm unnoticed.
The call to the faithful to stand was a thing to be complied with or resisted as the people
might wish; it was something entirely outside of himself. It did not occur to him to count
himself among either the lost or the saved.

Again the choir began singing and a businesslike movement began among the people. Men and women
went up and down the aisles clasping the hands of people in the pews, talking and praying aloud.
"Welcome among us," they said to certain ones who stood upon their feet. "It gladdens our hearts
to see you among us. We are happy at seeing you in the fold among the saved. It is good to
confess Jesus."

Suddenly a voice from the bench back of him struck terror to Sam's heart. Jim Williams, who
worked in Sawyer's barber shop, was upon his knees and in a loud voice was praying for the
soul of Sam McPherson. "Lord, help this erring boy who goes up and down in the company of sinners
and publicans," he shouted.

In a moment the terror of death and the fiery pit that had possessed him passed, and Sam was
filled instead with blind, dumb rage. He remembered that this same Jim Williams had treated
lightly the honour of his sister at the time of her disappearance, and he wanted to get upon
his feet and pour out his wrath on the head of the man, who, he felt, had betrayed him. "They
would not have seen me," he thought; "this is a fine trick Jim Williams has played me. I shall
be even with him for this."

He got to his feet and stood beside his mother. He had no qualms about passing himself off
as one of the lambs safely within the fold. His mind was bent upon quieting Jim Williams' prayers
and avoiding the attention of the people.

The minister began calling on the standing people to testify of their salvation. From various
parts of the church the people spoke out, some loudly and boldly and with a ring of confidence
in their voices, some tremblingly and hesitatingly. One woman wept loudly shouting between
the paroxysms of sobbing that seized her, "The weight of my sins is heavy on my soul." Girls
and young men when called on by the minister responded with shamed, hesitating voices asking
that a verse of some hymn be sung, or quoting a line of scripture.

At the back of the church the evangelist with one of the deacons and two or three women had
gathered about a small, black-haired woman, the wife of a baker to whom Sam delivered papers.
They were urging her to rise and get within the fold, and Sam turned and watched her curiously,
his sympathy going out to her. With all his heart he hoped that she would continue doggedly
shaking her head.

Suddenly the irrepressible Jim Williams broke forth again. A quiver ran over Sam's body and
the blood rose to his cheeks. "Here is another sinner saved," shouted Jim, pointing to the
standing boy. "Count this boy, Sam McPherson, in the fold among the lambs."

On the platform the brown-bearded minister stood upon a chair and looked over the heads of
the people. An ingratiating smile played about his lips. "Let us hear from the young man, Sam
McPherson," he said, raising his hand for silence, and, then, encouragingly, "Sam, what have
you to say for the Lord?"

Become the centre for the attention of the people in the church Sam was terror-stricken. The
rage against Jim Williams was forgotten in the spasm of fear that seized him. He looked over
his shoulder to the door at the back of the church and thought longingly of the quiet street
outside. He hesitated, stammered, grew more red and uncertain, and finally burst out: "The
Lord," he said, and then looked about hopelessly, "the Lord maketh me to lie out in green pastures."

In the seats behind him a titter arose. A young woman sitting among the singers in the choir
put her handkerchief to her face and throwing back her head rocked back and forth. A man near
the door guffawed loudly and went hurriedly out. All over the church people began laughing.

Sam turned his eyes upon his mother. She was staring straight ahead of her, and her face was
red. "I'm going out of this place and I'm never coming back again," he whispered, and, stepping
into the aisle, walked boldly toward the door. He had made up his mind that if the evangelist
tried to stop him he would fight. At his back he felt the rows of people looking at him and
smiling. The laughter continued.

In the street he hurried along consumed with indignation. "I'll never go into any church again,"
he swore, shaking his fist in the air. The public avowals he had heard in the church seemed
to him cheap and unworthy. He wondered why his mother stayed in there. With a sweep of his
arm he dismissed all the people in the church. "It is a place to make public asses of the people,"
he thought.

Sam McPherson wandered through Main Street, dreading to meet Valmore and John Telfer. Finding
the chairs back of the stove in Wildman's grocery deserted, he hurried past the grocer and
hid in a corner. Tears of wrath stood in his eyes. He had been made a fool of. He imagined
the scene that would go on when he came upon the street with the papers the next morning. Freedom
Smith would be there sitting in the old worn buggy and roaring so that all the street would
listen and laugh. "Going to lie out in any green pastures to-night, Sam?" he would shout. "Ain't
you afraid you'll take cold?" By Geiger's drug store would stand Valmore and Telfer, eager
to join in the fun at his expense. Telfer would pound on the side of the building with his
cane and roar with laughter. Valmore would make a trumpet of his hands and shout after the
fleeing boy. "Do you sleep out alone in them green pastures?" Freedom Smith would roar again.

Sam got up and went out of the grocery. As he hurried along, blind with wrath, he felt he would
like a stand-up fight with some one. And, then, hurrying and avoiding the people, he merged
with the crowd on the street and became a witness to the strange thing that happened that night
in Caxton.

       *       *       *       *       *

In Main Street hushed people stood about in groups talking. The air was heavy with excitement.
Solitary figures went from group to group whispering hoarsely. Mike McCarthy, the man who had
denied God and who had won a place for himself in the affection of the newsboy, had assaulted
a man with a pocket knife and had left him bleeding and wounded beside a country road. Something
big and sensational had happened in the life of the town.

Mike McCarthy and Sam were friends. For years the man had idled upon the streets of the town,
loitering about, boasting and talking. He had sat for hours in a chair under a tree before
the New Leland House, reading books, doing tricks with cards, engaging in long discussions
with John Telfer or any who would stand up to him.

Mike McCarthy got into trouble in a fight over a woman. A young farmer living at the edge of
Caxton had come home from the fields to find his wife in the bold Irishman's arms and the two
men had gone out of the house together to fight in the road. The woman, weeping in the house,
followed to ask forgiveness of her husband. Running in the gathering darkness along the road
she had found him cut and bleeding terribly, lying in a ditch under a hedge. On down the road
she ran and appeared at the door of a neighbour, screaming and calling for help.

The story of the fight in the road got to Caxton just as Sam came out of the corner, back of
the stove in Wildman's and appeared on the street. Men ran from store to store and from group
to group along the street saying that the young farmer had died and that murder had been done.
On a street corner Windy McPherson harangued the crowd declaring that the men of Caxton should
arise in the defence of their homes and string the murderer to a lamp post. Hop Higgins, driving
a horse from Culvert's livery, appeared on Main Street. "He will be at the McCarthy farm,"
he shouted. When several men, coming out of Geiger's drug store, stopped the marshal's horse,
saying, "You will have trouble out there; you had better take help," the little red-faced marshal
with the crippled leg laughed. "What trouble?" he asked--"To get Mike McCarthy? I shall ask
him to come and he will come. The rest of that lot won't cut any figure. Mike can wrap the
entire McCarthy family around his finger."

There were six of the McCarthy men, all, except Mike, silent, sullen men who only talked when
they were in liquor. Mike furnished the town's social touch with the family. It was a strange
family to live there in that fat, corn-growing country, a family with something savage and
primitive about it, one that belonged among western mining camps or among the half savage dwellers
in deep alleys in cities, and the fact that it lived on a corn farm in Iowa was, in the words
of John Telfer, "something monstrous in Nature."

The McCarthy farm, lying some four miles east of Caxton, had once contained a thousand acres
of good corn-growing land. Lem McCarthy, the father of the family, had inherited it from a
brother, a gold miner, a forty-niner, a sport owning fast horses, who planned to breed race
horses on the Iowa land. Lem had come out of the back streets of an eastern city, bringing
his brood of tall, silent, savage boys to live upon the land and, like the forty-niner, to
be a sport. Thinking the wealth that had come to him vast beyond spending, he had plunged into
horse racing and gambling. When, within two years, five hundred acres of the farm had to be
sold to pay gambling debts, and the wide acres lay covered with weeds, Lem became alarmed,
and settled down to hard work, the boys working all day in the field and at long intervals
coming into town at night to get into trouble. Having no mother or sister, and knowing that
no Caxton woman could be hired to go upon the place, they did their own housework; and on rainy
days sat about the old farmhouse playing cards and fighting. On other days they would stand
around the bar in Art Sherman's saloon in Piety Hollow drinking until they had lost their savage
silence and had become loud and quarrelsome, going from there upon the streets to seek trouble.
Once, going into Hayner's restaurant, they took stacks of plates from shelves back of the counter
and, standing in the doorway, threw them at people passing in the street, the crash of the
breaking crockery accompanying their roaring laughter. When they had driven the people to cover
they got upon their horses and with wild shouts raced up and down Main Street between the rows
of tied horses until Hop Higgins, the town marshal, appeared, when they rode off into the country
awakening the farmers along the darkened road as they fled, shouting and singing, toward home.

When the McCarthy boys got into trouble in Caxton, old Lem McCarthy drove into town and got
them out of it, paying for the damage done and going about declaring the boys meant no harm.
When told to keep them out of town he shook his head and said he would try.

Mike McCarthy did not ride swearing and singing with the five brothers along the dark road.
He did not work all day in the hot corn fields. He was the family gentleman, and, wearing good
clothes, strolled instead upon the street or loitered in the shade before the New Leland House.
Mike had been educated. For some years he had attended a college in Indiana from which he was
expelled for an affair with a woman. After his return from college he stayed in Caxton, living
at the hotel and making a pretence of studying law in the office of old Judge Reynolds. He
paid slight attention to the study of law, but with infinite patience had so trained his hands
that he became wonderfully dexterous with coins and cards, plucking them out of the air and
making them appear in the shoes, the hats, and even in the mouths, of bystanders. During the
day he walked the streets looking at the girl clerks in the stores, or stood upon the station
platform waving his hand to women passengers on passing trains. He told John Telfer that the
flattery of women was a lost art that he intended to restore. Mike McCarthy carried in his
pockets books which he read sitting in a chair before the hotel or on the stones before store
windows. When on Saturdays the streets were filled with people, he stood on the corners giving
gratuitous performances of his magical art with cards and coins, and eyeing country girls in
the crowd. Once, a woman, the town stationer's wife, shouted at him, calling him a lazy lout,
whereupon he threw a coin in the air, and when it did not come down rushed toward her shouting,
"She has it in her stocking." When the stationer's wife ran into her shop and banged the door
the crowd laughed and shouted with delight.

Telfer had a liking for the tall, grey-eyed, loitering McCarthy and sometimes sat with him
discussing a novel or a poem; Sam in the background listened eagerly. Valmore did not care
for the man, shaking his head and declaring that such a fellow could come to no good end.

The rest of the town agreed with Valmore, and McCarthy, knowing this, sunned himself in the
town's displeasure. For the sake of the public furor it brought down upon his head he proclaimed
himself a socialist, an anarchist, an atheist, a pagan. Among all the McCarthy boys he alone
cared greatly about women, and he made public and open declarations of his passion for them.
Before the men gathered about the stove in Wildman's grocery store he would stand whipping
them into a frenzy by declaring for free love, and vowing that he would have the best of any
woman who gave him the chance.

For this man the frugal, hard working newsboy had conceived a regard amounting to a passion.
As he listened to McCarthy he got continuous delightful little thrills. "There is nothing he
would not dare," thought the boy. "He is the freest, the boldest, the bravest man in town."
When the young Irishman, seeing the admiration in his eyes, flung him a silver dollar saying,
"That is for your fine brown eyes, my boy; it I had them I would have half the women in town
after me," Sam kept the dollar in his pocket and counted it a kind of treasure like the rose
given a lover by his sweetheart.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was past eleven o'clock when Hop Higgins returned to town with McCarthy, driving quietly
along the street and through an alley at the back of the town hall. The crowd upon the street
had broken up. Sam had gone from one to another of the muttering groups, his heart quaking
with fear. Now he stood at the back of the mass of men gathered at the jail door. An oil lamp,
burning at the top of the post above the door, threw dancing, flickering lights on the faces
of the men before him. The thunder storm that had threatened had not come, but the unnatural
warm wind continued and the sky overhead was inky black.

Through the alley, to the jail door, drove the town marshal, the young McCarthy sitting in
the buggy beside him. A man rushed forward to hold the horse. McCarthy's face was chalky white.
He laughed and shouted, raising his hand toward the sky.

"I am Michael, son of God. I have cut a man with a knife so that his red blood ran upon the
ground. I am the son of God and this filthy jail shall be my sanctuary. In there I shall talk
aloud with my Father," he roared hoarsely, shaking his fist at the crowd. "Sons of this cesspool
of respectability, stay and hear! Send for your females and let them stand in the presence
of a man!"

Taking the white, wild-eyed man by the arm Marshal Higgins led him into the jail, the clank
of locks, the low murmur of the voice of Higgins and the wild laughter of McCarthy floating
out to the group of silent men standing in the mud of the alley.

Sam McPherson ran past the group of men to the side of the jail and finding John Telfer and
Valmore leaning silently against the wall of Tom Folger's wagon shop slipped between them.
Telfer put out his arm and laid it upon the boy's shoulder. Hop Higgins, coming out of the
jail, addressed the crowd. "Don't answer if he talks," he said; "he is as crazy as a loon."

Sam moved closer to Telfer. The voice of the imprisoned man, loud, and filled with a startling
boldness, rolled out of the jail. He began praying.

"Hear me, Father Almighty, who has permitted this town of Caxton to exist and has let me, Thy
son, grow to manhood. I am Michael, Thy son. They have put me in this jail where rats run across
the floor and they stand in the mud outside as I talk with Thee. Are you there, old Truepenny?"

A breath of cold air blew up the alley followed by a flaw of rain. The group under the flickering
lamp by the jail entrance drew back against the walls of the building. Sam could see them dimly,
pressing closely against the wall. The man in the jail laughed loudly.

"I have had a philosophy of life, O Father," he shouted. "I have seen men and women here living
year after year without children. I have seen them hoarding pennies and denying Thee new life
on which to work Thy will. To these women I have gone secretly talking of carnal love. With
them I have been gentle and kind; them I have flattered."

A roaring laugh broke from the lips of the imprisoned man. "Are you there, oh dwellers in the
cesspool of respectability?" he shouted. "Do you stand in the mud with cold feet listening?
I have been with your wives. Eleven Caxton wives without babes have I been with and it has
been fruitless. The twelfth woman I have just left, leaving her man in the road a bleeding
sacrifice to thee. I shall call out the names of the eleven. I shall have revenge also upon
the husbands of the women, some of whom wait with the others in the mud outside."

He began calling off the names of Caxton wives. A shudder ran through the body of the boy,
sensitised by the new chill in the air and by the excitement of the night. Among the men standing
along the wall of the jail a murmur arose. Again they grouped themselves under the flickering
light by the jail door, disregarding the rain. Valmore, stumbling out of the darkness beside
Sam, stood before Telfer. "The boy should be going home," he said; "this isn't fit for him
to hear."

Telfer laughed and drew Sam closer to him. "He has heard enough lies in this town," he said.
"Truth won't hurt him. I would not go myself, nor would you, and the boy shall not go. This
McCarthy has a brain. Although he is half insane now he is trying to work something out. The
boy and I will stay to hear."

The voice from the jail continued calling out the names of Caxton wives. Voices in the group
before the jail door began shouting: "This should be stopped. Let us tear down the jail."

McCarthy laughed aloud. "They squirm, oh Father, they squirm; I have them in the pit and I
torture them," he cried.

An ugly feeling of satisfaction came over Sam. He had a sense of the fact that the names shouted
from the jail would be repeated over and over through the town. One of the women whose names
had been called out had stood with the evangelist at the back of the church trying to induce
the wife of the baker to rise and be counted in the fold with the lambs.

The rain, falling on the shoulders of the men by the jail door, changed to hail, the air grew
colder and the hailstones rattled on the roofs of buildings. Some of the men joined Telfer
and Valmore, talking in low, excited voices. "And Mary McKane, too, the hypocrite," Sam heard
one of them say.

The voice inside the jail changed. Still praying, Mike McCarthy seemed also to be talking to
the group in the darkness outside.

"I am sick of my life. I have sought leadership and have not found it. Oh Father! Send down
to men a new Christ, one to get hold of us, a modern Christ with a pipe in his mouth who will
swear and knock us about so that we vermin who pretend to be made in Thy image will understand.
Let him go into churches and into courthouses, into cities, and into towns like this, shouting,
'Be ashamed! Be ashamed of your cowardly concern over your snivelling souls!' Let him tell
us that never will our lives, so miserably lived, be repeated after our bodies lie rotting
in the grave."

A sob broke from his lips and a lump came into Sam's throat.

"Oh Father! help us men of Caxton to understand that we have only this, our lives, this life
so warm and hopeful and laughing in the sun, this life with its awkward boys full of strange
possibilities, and its girls with their long legs and freckles on their noses, that are meant
to carry life within themselves, new life, kicking and stirring, and waking them at night."

The voice of the prayer broke. Wild sobs took the place of speech. "Father!" shouted the broken
voice, "I have taken a life, a man that moved and talked and whistled in the sunshine on winter
mornings; I have killed."

       *       *       *       *       *

The voice inside the jail became inaudible. Silence, broken by low sobs from the jail, fell
on the little dark alley and the listening men began going silently away. The lump in Sam's
throat grew larger. Tears stood in his eyes. He went with Telfer and Valmore out of the alley
and into the street, the two men walking in silence. The rain had ceased and a cold wind blew.

The boy felt that he had been shriven. His mind, his heart, even his tired body seemed strangely
cleansed. He felt a new affection for Telfer and Valmore. When Telfer began talking he listened
eagerly, thinking that at last he understood him and knew why men like Valmore, Wildman, Freedom
Smith, and Telfer loved each other and went on being friends year after year in the face of
difficulties and misunderstandings. He thought that he had got hold of the idea of brotherhood
that John Telfer talked of so often and so eloquently. "Mike McCarthy is only a brother who
has gone the dark road," he thought and felt a glow of pride in the thought and in the apt
expression of it in his mind.

John Telfer, forgetting the boy, talked soberly to Valmore, the two men stumbling along in
the darkness intent upon their own thoughts.

"It is an odd thought," said Telfer and his voice seemed far away and unnatural like the voice
from the jail; "it is an odd thought that but for a quirk in the brain this Mike McCarthy might
himself have been a kind of Christ with a pipe in his mouth."

Valmore stumbled and half fell in the darkness at a street crossing. Telfer went on talking.

"The world will some day grope its way into some kind of an understanding of its extraordinary
men. Now they suffer terribly. In success or in such failures as has come to this imaginative,
strangely perverted Irishman their lot is pitiful. It is only the common, the plain, unthinking
man who slides peacefully through this troubled world."

At the house Jane McPherson sat waiting for her boy. She was thinking of the scene in the church
and a hard light was in her eyes. Sam went past the sleeping room of his parents, where Windy
McPherson snored peacefully, and up the stairway to his own room. He undressed and, putting
out the light, knelt upon the floor. From the wild ravings of the man in the jail he had got
hold of something. In the midst of the blasphemy of Mike McCarthy he had sensed a deep and
abiding love of life. Where the church had failed the bold sensualist succeeded. Sam felt that
he could have prayed in the presence of the entire town.

"Oh, Father!" he cried, sending up his voice in the silence of the little room, "make me stick
to the thought that the right living of this, my life, is my duty to you."

By the door below, while Valmore waited on the sidewalk, Telfer talked to Jane McPherson.

"I wanted Sam to hear," he explained. "He needs a religion. All young men need a religion.
I wanted him to hear how even a man like Mike McCarthy keeps instinctively trying to justify
himself before God."

CHAPTER IV

John Telfer's friendship was a formative influence upon Sam McPherson. His father's worthlessness
and the growing realisation of the hardship of his mother's position had given life a bitter
taste in his mouth, and Telfer sweetened it. He entered with zeal into Sam's thoughts and dreams,
and tried valiantly to arouse in the quiet, industrious, money-making boy some of his own love
of life and beauty. At night, as the two walked down country roads, the man would stop and,
waving his arms about, quote Poe or Browning or, in another mood, would compel Sam's attention
to the rare smell of a hayfield or to a moonlit stretch of meadow.

Before people gathered on the streets he teased the boy, calling him a little money grubber
and saying, "He is like a little mole that works underground. As the mole goes for a worm so
this boy goes for a five-cent piece. I have watched him. A travelling man goes out of town
leaving a stray dime or nickel here and within an hour it is in this boy's pocket. I have talked
to banker Walker of him. He trembles lest his vaults become too small to hold the wealth of
this young Croesus. The day will come when he will buy the town and put it into his vest pocket."

For all his public teasing of the boy Telfer had the genius to adopt a different attitude when
they were alone together. Then he talked to him openly and freely as he talked to Valmore and
Freedom Smith and to other cronies of his on the streets of Caxton. Walking along the road
he would point with his cane to the town and say, "You and that mother of yours have more of
the real stuff in you than the rest of the boys and mothers of the town put together."

In all Caxton Telfer was the only man who knew books and who took them seriously. Sam sometimes
found his attitude toward them puzzling and would stand with open mouth listening as Telfer
swore or laughed at a book as he did at Valmore or Freedom Smith. He had a fine portrait of
Browning which he kept hung in the stable and before this he would stand, his legs spread apart,
and his head tilted to one side, talking.

"A rich old sport you are, eh?" he would say, grinning. "Getting yourself discussed by women
and college professors in clubs, eh? You old fraud!"

Toward Mary Underwood, the school teacher who had become Sam's friend and with whom the boy
sometimes walked and talked, Telfer had no charity. Mary Underwood was a sort of cinder in
the eyes of Caxton. She was the only child of Silas Underwood, the town harness maker, who
once had worked in a shop belonging to Windy McPherson. After the business failure of Windy
he had started independently and for a time did well, sending his daughter to a school in Massachusetts.
Mary did not understand the people of Caxton and the people misunderstood and distrusted her.
Taking no part in the life of the town and keeping to herself and to her books she awoke a
kind of fear in others. Because she did not join them at church suppers, or go from porch to
porch gossiping with other women through the long summer evenings, they thought her something
abnormal. On Sundays she sat alone in her pew at church and on Saturday afternoons, come storm,
come sunshine, she walked on country roads and through the woods accompanied by a collie dog.
She was a small woman with a straight, slender figure and had fine blue eyes filled with changing
lights, hidden by the eye-glasses she almost constantly wore. Her lips were very full and red,
and she sat with them parted so that the edges of her fine teeth showed. Her nose was large,
and a fine reddish-brown colour glowed in her cheeks. Though different, she had, like Jane
McPherson, a habit of silence; and under her silence, she, like Sam's mother, possessed an
unusually strong and vigorous mind.

As a child she was a sort of half invalid and had not been on friendly footing with other children.
It was then that her habit of silence and reticence had been established. The years in the
school in Massachusetts restored her health but did not break this habit. She came home and
took the place in the schools to earn money with which to take her back East, dreaming of a
position as instructor in an eastern college. She was that rare thing, a woman scholar, loving
scholarship for its own sake.

Mary Underwood's position in the town and in the schools was insecure. Out of her silent, independent
way of life had sprung a misunderstanding that, at least once, had taken definite form and
had come near driving her from the town and schools. That she did not succumb to the storm
of criticism that for some weeks beat about her head was due to her habit of silence and to
a determination to get her own way in the face of everything.

It was a suggestion of scandal that had put the grey hairs upon her head. The scandal had blown
over before the time of her friendship for Sam, but he had known of it. In those days he knew
of everything that went on in the town--his quick ears and eyes missed nothing. More than once
he had heard the men waiting to be shaved in Sawyer's barber shop speak of her.

The tale ran that she had been involved in an affair with a real estate agent who had afterward
left town. It was said that the man, a tall, fine- looking fellow, had been in love with Mary
and had wanted to desert his wife and go away with her. One night he had driven to Mary's house
in a closed buggy and the two had driven into the country. They had sat for hours in the covered
buggy at the side of the road and talked, and people driving past had seen them there talking
together.

And then she had got out of the buggy and walked home alone through snow drifts. The next day
she was at school as usual. When told of it the school superintendent, a puttering old fellow
with vacant eyes, had shaken his head in alarm and declared that it must be looked into. He
called Mary into his little narrow office in the school building, but lost courage when she
sat before him, and said nothing. The man in the barber shop, who repeated the tale, said that
the real estate man drove on to a distant station and took a train to the city, and that some
days later he came back to Caxton and moved his family out of town.

Sam dismissed the story from his mind. Having begun a friendship for Mary he put the man in
the barber shop into a class with Windy McPherson and thought of him as a pretender and liar
who talked for the sake of talk. He remembered with a shock the crude levity with which the
loafers in the shop had greeted the repetition of the tale. Their comments had come back to
his mind as he walked through the streets with his newspapers and had given him a kind of jolt.
He went along under the trees thinking of the sunlight falling upon the grey hair as they walked
together on summer afternoons, and bit his lip and opened and closed his fist convulsively.

During Mary's second year in the Caxton schools her mother died, and at the end of another
year, her father, failing in the harness business, Mary became a fixture in the schools. The
house at the edge of the town, the property of her mother, had come down to her and she lived
there with an old aunt. After the passing of the wind of scandal concerning the real estate
man the town lost interest in her. She was thirty-six at the time of her first friendship with
Sam and lived alone among her books.

Sam had been deeply moved by her friendship. It had seemed to him something significant that
grown people with affairs of their own should be so in earnest about his future as she and
Telfer were. Boylike, he counted it a tribute to himself rather than to the winsome youth in
him, and was made proud by it. Having no real feeling for books, and only pretending to have
out of a desire to please, he sometimes went from one to the other of his two friends, passing
off their opinions as his own.

At this trick Telfer invariably caught him. "That is not your notion," he would shout, "you
have it from that school teacher. It is the opinion of a woman. Their opinions, like the books
they sometimes write, are founded on nothing. They are not the real things. Women know nothing.
Men only care for them because they have not had what they want from them. No woman is really
big--except maybe my woman, Eleanor."

When Sam continued to be much in the company of Mary, Telfer grew more bitter.

"I would have you observe women's minds and avoid letting them influence your own," he told
the boy. "They live in a world of unrealities. They like even vulgar people in books, but shrink
from the simple, earthy folk about them. That school teacher is so. Is she like me? Does she,
while loving books, love also the very smell of human life?"

In a way Telfer's attitude toward the kindly little school teacher became Sam's attitude. Although
they walked and talked together the course of study she had planned for him he never took up
and as he grew to know her better, the books she read and the ideas she advanced appealed to
him less and less. He thought that she, as Telfer held, lived in a world of illusion and unreality
and said so. When she lent him books, he put them in his pocket and did not read them. When
he did read, he thought the books reminded him of something that hurt him. They were in some
way false and pretentious. He thought they were like his father. One day he tried reading aloud
to Telfer from a book Mary Underwood had lent him.

The story was one of a poetic man with long, unclean fingernails who went among people preaching
the doctrine of beauty. It began with a scene on a hillside in a rainstorm where the poetic
man sat under a tent writing a letter to his sweetheart.

Telfer was beside himself. Jumping from his seat under a tree by the roadside he waved his
arms and shouted:

"Stop! Stop it! Do not go on with it. The story lies. A man could not write love letters under
the circumstances and he was a fool to pitch his tent on a hillside. A man in a tent on a hillside
in a storm would be cold and wet and getting the rheumatism. To be writing letters he would
need to be an unspeakable ass. He had better be out digging a trench to keep the water from
running through his tent."

Waving his arms, Telfer went off up the road and Sam followed thinking him altogether right,
and, if later in life he learned that there are men who could write love letters on a piece
of housetop in a flood, he did not know it then and the least suggestion of windiness or pretence
lay heavy in his stomach.

Telfer had a vast enthusiasm for Bellamy's "Looking Backward," and read it aloud to his wife
on Sunday afternoons, sitting under the apple trees in the garden. They had a fund of little
personal jokes and sayings that they were forever laughing over, and she had infinite delight
in his comments on the life and people of Caxton, but did not share his love of books. When
she sometimes went to sleep in her chair during the Sunday afternoon readings he poked her
with his cane and laughingly told her to wake up and listen to the dream of a great dreamer.
Among Browning's verses his favourites were "A Light Woman" and "Fra Lippo Lippi," and he would
recite these aloud with great gusto. He declared Mark Twain the greatest man in the world and
in certain moods he would walk the road beside Sam reciting over and over one or two lines
of verse, often this from Poe:

  Helen, thy beauty is to me
  Like some Nicean bark of yore.

Then, stopping and turning upon the boy, he would demand whether or not the writing of such
lines wasn't worth living a life for.

Telfer had a pack of dogs that always went with them on their walks at night and he had for
them long Latin names that Sam could never remember. One summer be bought a trotting mare from
Lem McCarthy and gave great attention to the colt, which he named Bellamy Boy, trotting him
up and down a little driveway by the side of his house for hours at a time and declaring he
would be a great trotting horse. He could recite the colt's pedigree with great gusto and when
he had been talking to Sam of some book he would repay the boy's attention by saying, "You,
my boy, are as far superior to the run of boys about town as the colt, Bellamy Boy, is superior
to the farm horses that are hitched along Main Street on Saturday afternoons." And then, with
a wave of his hand and a look of much seriousness on his face, he would add, "And for the same
reason. You have been, like him, under a master trainer of youth."

       *       *       *       *       *

One evening Sam, now grown to man's stature and full of the awkwardness and self-consciousness
of his new growth, was sitting on a cracker barrel at the back of Wildman's grocery. It was
a summer evening and a breeze blew through the open doors swaying the hanging oil lamps that
burned and sputtered overhead. As usual he was listening in silence to the talk that went on
among the men.

Standing with legs wide apart and from time to time jabbing with his cane at Sam's legs, John
Telfer held forth on the subject of love.

"It is a theme that poets do well to write of," he declared. "In writing of it they avoid the
necessity of embracing it. In trying for a well- turned line they forget to look at well-turned
ankles. He who sings most passionately of love has been in love the least; he woos the goddess
of poesy and only gets into trouble when he, like John Keats, turns to the daughter of a villager
and tries to live the lines he has written."

"Stuff and nonsense," roared Freedom Smith, who had been sitting tilted far back in a chair
with his feet against the cold stove, smoking a short, black pipe, and who now brought his
feet down upon the floor with a bang. Admiring Telfer's flow of words he pretended to be filled
with scorn. "The night is too hot for eloquence," he bellowed. "If you must be eloquent talk
of ice cream or mint juleps or recite a verse about the old swimming pool."

Telfer, wetting his finger, thrust it into the air.

"The wind is in the north-west; the beasts roar; we will have a storm," he said, winking at
Valmore.

Banker Walker came into the store, followed by his daughter. She was a small, dark-skinned
girl with black, quick eyes. Seeing Sam sitting with swinging legs upon the cracker barrel
she spoke to her father and went out of the store. At the sidewalk she stopped and, turning,
made a quick motion with her hand.

Sam jumped off the cracker barrel and strolled toward the street door. A flush was on his cheeks.
His mouth felt hot and dry. He went with extreme deliberateness, stopping to bow to the banker,
and for a moment lingering to read a newspaper that lay upon the cigar case, to avoid the comments
he feared his going might excite among the men by the stove. In his heart he trembled lest
the girl should have disappeared down the street, and with his eyes, he looked guiltily at
the banker, who had joined the group at the back of the store and who now stood listening to
the talk, while he read from a list held in his hand and Wildman went here and there doing
up packages and repeating aloud the names of articles called off by the banker.

At the end of the lighted business section of Main Street, Sam found the girl waiting for him.
She began to tell of the subterfuge by which she had escaped her father.

"I told him I would go home with my sister," she said, tossing her head.

Taking hold of the boy's hand, she led him along the shaded street. For the first time Sam
walked in the company of one of the strange beings that had begun to bring him uneasy nights,
and overcome with the wonder of it the blood climbed through his body and made his head reel
so that he walked in silence unable to understand his own emotions. He felt the soft hand of
the girl with delight; his heart pounded against the walls of his chest and a choking sensation
gripped at his throat.

Walking along the street, past lighted residences where the low voices of women in talk greeted
his ears, Sam was inordinately proud. He thought that he should like to turn and walk with
this girl through the lighted Main Street. Had she not chosen him from among all the boys of
the town; had she not, with a flutter of her little, white hand, called to him with a call
that he wondered the men upon the cracker barrels had not heard? Her boldness and his own took
his breath away. He could not talk. His tongue seemed paralysed.

Down the street went the boy and girl, loitering in the shadows, hurrying past the dim oil
lamps at street crossings, getting from each other wave after wave of exquisite little thrills.
Neither spoke. They were beyond words. Had they not together done this daring thing?

In the shadow of a tree they stopped and stood facing each other; the girl looked at the ground
and stood facing the boy. Putting out his hand he laid it upon her shoulder. In the darkness
on the other side of the street a man stumbled homeward along a board sidewalk. The lights
of Main Street glowed in the distance. Sam drew the girl toward him. She raised her head. Their
lips met, and then, throwing her arms about his neck, she kissed him again and again eagerly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sam's return to Wildman's was marked by extreme caution. Although he had been absent but fifteen
minutes it seemed to him that hours must have passed and he would not have been surprised to
see the stores locked and darkness settled down on Main Street. It was inconceivable that the
grocer could still be wrapping packages for banker Walker. Worlds had been remade. Manhood
had come to him. Why! the man should have wrapped the entire store, package after package,
and sent it to the ends of the earth. He lingered in the shadows at the first of the store
lights where ages before he had gone, a mere boy, to meet her, a mere girl, and looked with
wonder at the lighted way before him.

Sam crossed the street and, from the front of Sawyer's barber shop, looked into Wildman's.
He felt like a spy looking into the camp of an enemy. There before him sat the men into whose
midst he had it in his power to cast a thunderbolt. He might walk to the door and say, truthfully
enough, "Here before you is a boy that by the flutter of a white hand has been made into a
man; here is one who has wrung the heart of womankind and eaten his fill at the tree of the
knowledge of life."

In the grocery the talk still continued among the men upon the cracker barrels who seemed unconscious
of the boy's slinking entrance. Indeed, their talk had sunk. From talking of love and of poets
they talked of corn and of steers. Banker Walker, his packages of groceries lying on the counter,
smoked a cigar.

"You can fairly hear the corn growing to-night," he said. "It wants but another shower or two
and we shall have a record crop. I plan to feed a hundred steers at my farm out Rabbit Road
this winter."

The boy climbed again upon a cracker barrel and tried to look unconcerned and interested in
the talk. Still his heart thumped; still a throbbing went on in his wrists. He turned and looked
at the floor hoping his agitation would pass unnoticed.

The banker, taking up the packages, walked out at the door. Valmore and Freedom Smith went
over to the livery barn for a game of pinochle. And John Telfer, twirling his cane and calling
to a troup of dogs that loitered in an alley back of the store, took Sam for a walk into the
country.

"I will continue this talk of love," said Telfer, striking at weeds along the road with his
cane and from time to time calling sharply to the dogs that, filled with delight at being abroad,
ran growling and tumbling over each other in the dusty road.

"That Freedom Smith is a sample of life in this town. At the word love he drops his feet upon
the floor and pretends to be filled with disgust. He will talk of corn or steers or of the
stinking hides that he buys, but at the mention of the word love he is like a hen that has
seen a hawk in the sky. He runs about in circles making a fuss. 'Here! Here! Here!' he cries,
'you are making public something that should be kept hidden. You are doing in the light of
day what should only be done with a shamed face in a darkened room.' Why, boy, if I were a
woman in this town I would not stand it--I would go to New York, to France, to Paris--To be
wooed for but a passing moment by a shame-faced yokel without art--uh--it is unthinkable."

The man and the boy walked in silence. The dogs, scenting a rabbit, disappeared across a long
pasture, their master letting them go. From time to time he threw back his head and took long
breaths of the night air.

"I am not like banker Walker," he declared. "He thinks of the growing corn in terms of fat
steers feeding on the Rabbit Run farm; I think of it as something majestic. I see the long
corn rows with the men and the horses half hidden, hot and breathless, and I think of a vast
river of life. I catch a breath of the flame that was in the mind of the man who said, 'The
land is flowing with milk and honey.' I am made happy by my thoughts not by the dollars clinking
in my pocket.

"And then in the fall when the corn stands shocked I see another picture. Here and there in
companies stand the armies of the corn. It puts a ring in my voice to look at them. 'These
orderly armies has mankind brought out of chaos,' I say to myself. 'On a smoking black ball
flung by the hand of God out of illimitable space has man stood up these armies to defend his
home against the grim attacking armies of want.'"

Telfer stopped and stood in the road with his legs spread apart. He took off his hat and throwing
back his head laughed up at the stars.

"Freedom Smith should hear me now," he cried, rocking back and forth with laughter and switching
his cane at the boy's legs so that Sam had to hop merrily about in the road to avoid it. "Flung
by the hand of God out of illimitable space--eh! not bad, eh! I should be in Congress. I am
wasted here. I am throwing priceless eloquence to dogs who prefer to chase rabbits and to a
boy who is the worst little money grubber in the town."

The midsummer madness that had seized Telfer passed and for a time he walked in silence. Suddenly,
putting his arm on the boy's shoulder, he stopped and pointed to where a faint light in the
sky marked the lighted town.

"They are good people," he said, "but their ways are not my ways or your ways. You will go
out of the town. You have genius. You will be a man of finance. I have watched you. You are
not niggardly and you do not cheat and lie--result--you will not be a little business man.
What have you? You have the gift of seeing dollars where the rest of the boys of the town see
nothing and you are tireless after those dollars--you will be a big man of dollars, it is plain."
Into his voice came a touch of bitterness. "I also was marked out. Why do I carry a cane? why
do I not buy a farm and raise steers? I am the most worthless thing alive. I have the touch
of genius without the energy to make it count."

Sam's mind that had been inflamed by the kiss of the girl cooled in the presence of Telfer.
In the summer madness of the talking man there was something soothing to the fever in his blood.
He followed the words eagerly, seeing pictures, getting thrills, filled with happiness.

At the edge of town a buggy passed the walking pair. In the buggy sat a young farmer, his arm
about the waist of a girl, her head upon his shoulder. Far in the distance sounded the faint
call of the dogs. Sam and Telfer sat down on a grassy bank under a tree while Telfer rolled
and lighted a cigarette.

"As I promised, I will talk to you of love," he said, making a wide sweep with his arm each
time as he put his cigarette into his mouth.

The grassy bank on which they lay had the rich, burned smell of the hot days. A wind rustled
the standing corn that formed a kind of wall behind them. The moon was in the sky and shone
down across bank after bank of serried clouds. The grandiloquence went out of the voice of
Telfer and his face became serious.

"My foolishness is more than half earnest," he said. "I think that a man or boy who has set
for himself a task had better let women and girls alone. If he be a man of genius, he has a
purpose independent of all the world, and should cut and slash and pound his way toward his
mark, forgetting every one, particularly the woman that would come to grips with him. She also
has a mark toward which she goes. She is at war with him and has a purpose that is not his
purpose. She believes that the pursuit of women is an end for a life. For all they now condemn
Mike McCarthy who went to the asylum because of them and who, while loving life, came near
to taking life, the women of Caxton do not condemn his madness for themselves; they do not
blame him for loitering away his good years or for making an abortive mess of his good brain.
While he made an art of the pursuit of women they applauded secretly. Did not twelve of them
accept the challenge thrown out by his eyes as he loitered in the streets?"

The man, who had begun talking quietly and seriously, raised his voice and waved the lighted
cigarette in the air and the boy who had begun to think again of the dark-skinned daughter
of banker Walker listened attentively. The barking of the dogs grew nearer.

"If you as a boy can get from me, a grown man, an understanding of the purpose of women you
will not have lived in this town for nothing. Set your mark at money making if you will, but
drive at that. Let yourself but go and a sweet wistful pair of eyes seen in a street crowd
or a pair of little feet running over a dance floor will retard your growth for years. No man
or boy can grow toward the purpose of a life while he thinks of women. Let him try it and he
will be undone. What is to him a passing humour is to them an end. They are diabolically clever.
They will run and stop and run and stop again, keeping just without his reach. He sees them
here and there about him. His mind is filled with vague, delicious thoughts that come out of
the very air; before he realises what he has done he has spent his years in vain pursuit and
turning finds himself old and undone."

Telfer began jabbing at the ground with his stick.

"I had my chance. In New York I had money to live on and time to have made an artist of myself.
I won prize after prize. The master, walking up and down back of us, lingered longest over
my easel. There was a fellow sat beside me who had nothing. I made sport of him and called
him Sleepy Jock after a dog we used to have about our house here in Caxton. Now I am here idly
waiting for death and that Jock, where is he? Only last week I saw in a paper that he had won
a place among the world's great artists by a picture he has painted. In the school I watched
for a look in the eyes of the girl students and went about with them night after night winning,
like Mike McCarthy, fruitless victories. Sleepy Jock had the best of it. He did not look about
with open eyes but kept peering instead at the face of the master. My days were full of small
successes. I could wear clothes. I could make soft-eyed girls turn to look at me in a dance
hall. I remember a night. We students gave a dance and Sleepy Jock came. He went about asking
for dances and the girls laughed and told him they had none to give, that the dances were taken.
I followed him and had my ears filled with flattery and my card with names. In riding the wave
of small success I got the habit of small success. When I could not catch the line I wanted
to make a drawing live, I dropped my pencil and, taking a girl upon my arm, went for a day
in the country. Once, sitting in a restaurant, I overheard two women talking of the beauty
of my eyes and was made happy for a week."

Telfer threw up his hands in disgust.

"My flow of words, my ready trick of talking; to what does it bring me? Let me tell you. It
has brought me to this--that at fifty I, who might have been an artist fixing the minds of
thousands upon some thing of beauty or of truth, have become a village cut-up, a pot-house
wit, a flinger of idle words into the air of a village intent upon raising corn.

"If you ask me why, I tell you that my mind was paralysed by small success and if you ask me
where I got the taste for that, I tell you that I got it when I saw it lurking in a woman's
eyes and heard the pleasant little songs that lull to sleep upon a woman's lips."

The boy, sitting upon the grassy bank beside Telfer, began thinking of life in Caxton. The
man smoking the cigarette fell into one of his rare silences. The boy thought of girls that
had come into his mind at night, of how he had been thrilled by a glance from the eyes of a
little blue- eyed school girl who had once visited at Freedom Smith's home and of how he had
gone at night to stand under her window.

In Caxton adolescent love had about it a virility befitting a land that raised so many bushels
of yellow corn and drove so many fat steers through the streets to be loaded upon cars. Men
and women went their ways believing, with characteristic American what-boots-it attitude toward
the needs of childhood, that it was well for growing boys and girls to be much alone together.
To leave them alone together was a principle with them. When a young man called upon his sweetheart,
her parents sat in the presence of the two with apologetic eyes and presently disappeared leaving
them alone together. When boys' and girls' parties were given in Caxton houses, parents went
away leaving the children to shift for themselves.

"Now have a good time and don't tear the house down," they said, going off upstairs.

Left to themselves the children played kissing games and young men and tall half-formed girls
sat on the front porches in the darkness, thrilled and half frightened, getting through their
instincts, crudely and without guidance, their first peep at the mystery of life. They kissed
passionately and the young men, walking home, lay upon their beds fevered and unnaturally aroused,
thinking thoughts.

Young men went into the company of girls time and again without knowing aught of them except
that they caused a stirring of their whole being, a kind of riot of the senses to which they
returned on other evenings as a drunkard to his cups. After such an evening they found themselves,
on the next morning, confused and filled with vague longings. They had lost their keenness
for fun, they heard without hearing the talk of the men about the station and in the stores,
they went slinking through the streets in groups and people seeing them nodded their heads
and said, "It is the loutish age."

If Sam did not have a loutish age it was due to his tireless struggle to increase the totals
at the foot of the pages in the yellow bankbook, to the growing ill health of his mother that
had begun to frighten him, and to the society of Valmore, Wildman, Freedom Smith, and the man
who now sat musing beside him. He began to think he would have nothing more to do with the
Walker girl. He remembered his sister's affair with a young farmer and shuddered at the crude
vulgarity of it. He looked over the shoulder of the man sitting beside him absorbed in thought,
and saw the rolling fields stretched away in the moonlight and into his mind came Telfer's
speech. So vivid, so moving, seemed the picture of the armies of standing corn which men had
set up in the fields to protect themselves against the march of pitiless Nature, and Sam, holding
the picture in his mind as he followed the sense of Telfer's talk, thought that all society
had resolved itself into a few sturdy souls who went on and on regardless, and a hunger to
make of himself such another arose engulfing him. The desire within him seemed so compelling
that he turned and haltingly tried to express what was in his mind.

"I will try," he stammered, "I will try to be a man. I will try to not have anything to do
with them--with women. I will work and make money-- and--and----"

Speech left him. He rolled over and lying on his stomach looked at the ground.

"To Hell with women and girls," he burst forth as though throwing something distasteful out
of his throat.

In the road a clamour arose. The dogs, giving up the pursuit of rabbits, came barking and growling
into sight and scampered up the grassy bank, covering the man and the boy. Shaking off the
reaction upon his sensitive nature of the emotions of the boy Telfer arose. His sang froid
had returned to him. Cutting right and left with his stick at the dogs he cried joyfully, "We
have had enough of eloquence from man, boy, and dog. We will be on our way. We will get this
boy Sam home and tucked into bed."

CHAPTER V

Sam was a half-grown man of fifteen when the call of the city came to him. For six years he
had been upon the streets. He had seen the sun come up hot and red over the corn fields, and
had stumbled through the streets in the bleak darkness of winter mornings, when the trains
from the north came into Caxton covered with ice, and the trainmen stood on the deserted little
platform whipping their arms and calling to Jerry Donlin to hurry with his work that they might
get back into the warm stale air of the smoking car.

In the six years the boy had grown more and more determined to become a man of money. Fed by
banker Walker, the silent mother, and in some subtle way by the very air he breathed, the belief
within him that to make money and to have money would in some way make up for the old half-forgotten
humiliations in the life of the McPherson family and would set it on a more secure foundation
than the wobbly Windy had provided, grew and influenced his thoughts and his acts. Tirelessly
he kept at his efforts to get ahead. In his bed at night he dreamed of dollars. Jane McPherson
had herself a passion for frugality. In spite of Windy's incompetence and her own growing ill
health, she would not permit the family to go into debt, and although, in the long hard winters,
Sam sometimes ate cornmeal mush until his mind revolted at the thought of a corn field, yet
was the rent of the little house paid on the scratch, and her boy fairly driven to increase
the totals in the yellow bankbook. Even Valmore, who since the death of his wife had lived
in a loft above his shop and who was a blacksmith of the old days, a workman first and a money
maker later, did not despise the thought of gain.

"It is money makes the mare go," he said with a kind of reverence as banker Walker, fat, sleek,
and prosperous, walked pompously out of Wildman's grocery.

Of John Telfer's attitude toward money-making, the boy was uncertain. The man followed with
joyous abandonment the impulse of the moment.

"That's right," he cried impatiently when Sam, who had begun to express opinions at the gatherings
in the grocery, pointed out hesitatingly that the papers took account of men of wealth no matter
what their achievements, "Make money! Cheat! Lie! Be one of the men of the big world! Get your
name up for a modern, high-class American!"

And in the next breath, turning upon Freedom Smith who had begun to berate the boy for not
sticking to the schools and who predicted that the day would come when Sam would regret his
lack of book learning, he shouted, "Let the schools go! They are but musty beds in which old
clerkliness lies asleep!"

Among the travelling men who came to Caxton to sell goods, the boy, who had continued the paper
selling even after attaining the stature of a man, was a favourite. Sitting in chairs before
the New Leland House they talked to him of the city and of the money to be made there.

"It is the place for a live young man," they said.

Sam had a talent for drawing people into talk of themselves and of their affairs and began
to cultivate travelling men. From them, he got into his nostrils a whiff of the city and, listening
to them, he saw the great ways filled with hurrying people, the tall buildings touching the
sky, the men running about intent upon money-making, and the clerks going on year after year
on small salaries getting nowhere, a part of, and yet not understanding, the impulses and motives
of the enterprises that supported them.

In this picture Sam thought he saw a place for himself. He conceived of life in the city as
a great game in which he believed he could play a sterling part. Had he not in Caxton brought
something out of nothing, had he not systematised and monopolised the selling of papers, had
he not introduced the vending of popcorn and peanuts from baskets to the Saturday night crowds?
Already boys went out in his employ, already the totals in the bank book had crept to more
than seven hundred dollars. He felt within him a glow of pride at the thought of what he had
done and would do.

"I will be richer than any man in town here," he declared in his pride. "I will be richer than
Ed Walker."

Saturday night was the great night in Caxton life. For it the clerks in the stores prepared,
for it Sam sent forth his peanut and popcorn venders, for it Art Sherman rolled up his sleeves
and put the glasses close by the beer tap under the bar, and for it the mechanics, the farmers,
and the labourers dressed in their Sunday best and came forth to mingle with their fellows.
On Main Street crowds packed the stores, the sidewalks, and drinking places, and men stood
about in groups talking while young girls with their lovers walked up and down. In the hall
over Geiger's drug store a dance went on and the voice of the caller-off rose above the clatter
of voices and the stamping of horses in the street. Now and then a fight broke out among the
roisterers in Piety Hollow. Once a young farm hand was killed with a knife.

In and out through the crowd Sam went, pressing his wares.

"Remember the long quiet Sunday afternoon," he said, pushing a paper into the hands of a slow-thinking
farmer. "Recipes for cooking new dishes," he urged to the farmer's wife. "There is a page of
new fashions in dress," he told the young girl.

Not until the last light was out in the last saloon in Piety Hollow, and the last roisterer
had driven off into the darkness carrying a Saturday paper in his pocket, did Sam close the
day's business.

And it was on a Saturday night that he decided to drop paper selling.

"I will take you into business with me," announced Freedom Smith, stopping him as he hurried
by. "You are getting too old to sell papers and you know too much."

Sam, still intent upon the money to be made on that particular Saturday night, did not stop
to discuss the matter with Freedom, but for a year he had been looking quietly about for something
to go into and now he nodded his head as he hurried away.

"It is the end of romance," shouted Telfer, who stood beside Freedom Smith before Geiger's
drug store and who had heard the offer. "A boy, who has seen the secret workings of my mind,
who has heard me spout Poe and Browning, will become a merchant, dealing in stinking hides.
I am overcome by the thought."

The next day, sitting in the garden back of his house, Telfer talked to Sam of the matter at
length.

"For you, my boy, I put the matter of money in the first place," he declared, leaning back
in his chair, smoking a cigarette and from time to time tapping Eleanor on the shoulder with
his cane. "For any boy I put money-making in the first place. It is only women and fools who
despise money-making. Look at Eleanor here. The time and thought she puts into the selling
of hats would be the death of me, but it has been the making of her. See how fine and purposeful
she has become. Without the millinery business she would be a purposeless fool intent upon
clothes and with it she is all a woman should be. It is like a child to her."

Eleanor, who had turned to laugh at her husband, looked instead at the ground and a shadow
crossed her face. Telfer, who had begun talking thoughtlessly, out of his excess of words,
glanced from the woman to the boy. He knew that the suggestion regarding a child had touched
a secret regret in Eleanor, and began trying to efface the shadow on her face by throwing himself
into the subject that chanced to be on his tongue, making the words roll and tumble from his lips.

"No matter what may come in the future, in our day money-making precedes many virtues that
are forever on men's lips," he declared fiercely as though trying to down an opponent. "It
is one of the virtues that proves man not a savage. It has lifted him up--not money-making,
but the power to make money. Money makes life livable. It gives freedom and destroys fear.
Having it means sanitary houses and well-made clothes. It brings into men's lives beauty and
the love of beauty. It enables a man to go adventuring after the stuff of life as I have done.

"Writers are fond of telling stories of the crude excesses of great wealth," he went on hurriedly,
glancing again at Eleanor. "No doubt the things they tell of do happen. Money, and not the
ability and the instinct to make money, is at fault. And what of the cruder excesses of poverty,
the drunken men who beat and starve their families, the grim silences of the crowded, unsanitary
houses of the poor, the inefficient, and the defeated? Go sit around the lounging room of the
most vapid rich man's city club as I have done, and then sit among the workers of a factory
at the noon hour. Virtue, you will find, is no fonder of poverty than you and I, and the man
who has merely learned to be industrious, and who has not acquired that eager hunger and shrewdness
that enables him to get on, may build up a strong dexterous body while his mind is diseased
and decaying."

Grasping his cane and beginning to be carried away by the wind of his eloquence Telfer forgot
Eleanor and talked for his love of talking.

"The mind that has in it the love of the beautiful, that stuff that makes our poets, artists,
musicians, and actors, needs this turn for shrewd money getting or it will destroy itself,"
he declared. "And the really great artists have it. In books and stories the great men starve
in garrets. In real life they are more likely to ride in carriages on Fifth Avenue and have
country places on the Hudson. Go, see for yourself. Visit the starving genius in his garret.
It is a hundred to one that you will find him not only incapable in money getting but also
incapable in the very art for which he starves."

After the hurried word from Freedom Smith, Sam began looking for a buyer for the paper business.
The place offered appealed to him and he wanted a chance at it. In the buying of potatoes,
butter, eggs, apples, and hides he thought he could make money, also, he knew that the dogged
persistency with which he had kept at the putting of money in the bank had caught Freedom's
imagination, and he wanted to take advantage of the fact.

Within a few days the deal was made. Sam got three hundred and fifty dollars for the list of
newspaper customers, the peanut and popcorn business and the transfer of the exclusive agencies
he had arranged with the dailies of Des Moines and St. Louis. Two boys bought the business,
backed by their fathers. A talk in the back room of the bank, with the cashier telling of Sam's
record as a depositor, and the seven hundred dollars surplus clinched the deal. When it came
to the deal with Freedom, Sam took him into the back room at the bank and showed his savings
as he had shown them to the fathers of the two boys. Freedom was impressed. He thought the
boy would make money for him. Twice within a week Sam had seen the silent suggestive power of cash.

The deal Sam made with Freedom included a fair weekly wage, enough to more than take care of
all his wants, and in addition he was to have two-thirds of all he saved Freedom in the buying.
Freedom on the other hand was to furnish horse, vehicle, and keep for the horse, while Sam
was to take care of the horse. The prices to be paid for the things bought were to be fixed
each morning by Freedom, and if Sam bought at less than the prices named two-thirds of the
savings went to him. The arrangement was suggested by Sam, who thought he would make more from
the saving than from the wage.

Freedom Smith discussed even the most trivial matter in a loud voice, roaring and shouting
in the store and on the streets. He was a great inventor of descriptive names, having a name
of his own for every man, woman and child he knew and liked. "Old Maybe-Not" he called Windy
McPherson and would roar at him in the grocery asking him not to shed rebel blood in the sugar
barrel. He drove about the country in a low phaeton buggy that rattled and squeaked enormously
and had a wide rip in the top. To Sam's knowledge neither the buggy nor Freedom were washed
during his stay with the man. He had a method of his own in buying. Stopping in front of a
farm house he would sit in his buggy and roar until the farmer came out of the field or the
house to talk with him. And then haggling and shouting he would make his deal or drive on his
way while the farmer, leaning on the fence, laughed as at a wayward child.

Freedom lived in a large old brick house facing one of Caxton's best streets. His house and
yard were an eyesore to his neighbours who liked him personally. He knew this and would stand
on his front porch laughing and roaring about it. "Good morning, Mary," he would shout at the
neat German woman across the street. "Wait and you'll see me clean up about here. I'm going
at it right now. I'm going to brush the flies off the fence first."

Once he ran for a county office and got practically every vote in the county.

Freedom had a passion for buying up old half-worn buggies and agricultural implements, bringing
them home to stand in the yard, gathering rust and decay, and swearing they were as good as
new. In the lot were a half dozen buggies and a family carriage or two, a traction engine,
a mowing machine, several farm wagons and other farm tools gone beyond naming. Every few days
he came home bringing a new prize. They overflowed the yard and crept onto the porch. Sam never
knew him to sell any of this stuff. He had at one time sixteen sets of harness all broken and
unrepaired in the barn and in a shed back of the house. A great flock of chickens and two or
three pigs wandered about among this junk and all the children of the neighbourhood joined
Freedom's four and ran howling and shouting over and under the mass.

Freedom's wife, a pale, silent woman, rarely came out of the house. She had a liking for the
industrious, hard-working Sam and occasionally stood at the back door and talked with him in
a low, even voice at evening as he stood unhitching his horse after a day on the road. Both
she and Freedom treated him with great respect.

As a buyer Sam was even more successful than at the paper selling. He was a buyer by instinct,
working a wide stretch of country very systematically and within a year more than doubling
the bulk of Freedom's purchases.

There is a little of Windy McPherson's grotesque pretentiousness in every man and his son soon
learned to look for and to take advantage of it. He let men talk until they had exaggerated
or overstated the value of their goods, then called them sharply to accounts, and before they
had recovered from their confusion drove home the bargain. In Sam's day, farmers did not watch
the daily market reports, in fact, the markets were not systematised and regulated as they
were later, and the skill of the buyer was of the first importance. Having the skill, Sam used
it constantly to put money into his pockets, but in some way kept the confidence and respect
of the men with whom he traded.

The noisy, blustering Freedom was as proud as a father of the trading ability that developed
in the boy and roared his name up and down the streets and in the stores, declaring him the
smartest boy in Iowa.

"Mighty little of old Maybe-Not in that boy," he would shout to the loafers in the store.

Although Sam had an almost painful desire for order and system in his own affairs, he did not
try to bring these influences into Freedom's affairs, but kept his own records carefully and
bought potatoes and apples, butter and eggs, furs and hides, with untiring zeal, working always
to swell his commissions. Freedom took the risks in the business and many times profited little,
but the two liked and respected each other and it was through Freedom's efforts that Sam finally
got out of Caxton and into larger affairs.

One evening in the late fall Freedom came into the stable where Sam stood taking the harness
off his horse.

"Here is a chance for you, my boy," he said, putting his hand affectionately on Sam's shoulder.
There was a note of tenderness in his voice. He had written to the Chicago firm to whom he
sold most of the things he bought, telling of Sam and his ability, and the firm had replied
making an offer that Sam thought far beyond anything he might hope for in Caxton. In his hand
he held this offer.

When Sam read the letter his heart jumped. He thought that it opened for him a wide new field
of effort and of money making. He thought that at last he had come to the end of his boyhood
and was to have his chance in the city. Only that morning old Doctor Harkness had stopped him
at the door as he set out for work and, pointing over his shoulder with his thumb to where
in the house his mother lay, wasted and asleep, had told him that in another week she would
be gone, and Sam, heavy of heart and filled with uneasy longing, had walked through the streets
to Freedom's stable wishing that he also might be gone.

Now he walked across the stable floor and hung the harness he had taken from the horse upon
a peg in the wall.

"I will be glad to go," he said heavily.

Freedom walked out of the stable door beside the young McPherson who had come to him as a boy
and was now a broad-shouldered young man of eighteen. He did not want to lose Sam. He had written
the Chicago company because of his affection for the boy and because he believed him capable
of something more than Caxton offered. Now he walked in silence holding the lantern aloft and
guiding the way among the wreckage in the yard, filled with regrets.

By the back door of the house stood the pale, tired-looking wife who, putting out her hand,
took the hand of the boy. There were tears in her eyes. And then saying nothing Sam turned
and hurried off up the street, Freedom and his wife walked to the front gate and watched him
go. From a street corner, where he stopped in the shadow of a tree, Sam could see them there,
the wind swinging the lantern in Freedom's hand and the slender little old wife making a white
blotch against the darkness.

CHAPTER VI

Sam went along the board sidewalk homeward bound, hurried by the driving March wind that had
sent the lantern swinging in Freedom's hand. At the front of a white frame residence a grey-haired
old man stood leaning on the gate and looking at the sky.

"We shall have a rain," he said in a quavering voice, as though giving a decision in the matter,
and then turned and without waiting for an answer went along a narrow path into the house.

The incident brought a smile to Sam's lips followed by a kind of weariness of mind. Since the
beginning of his work with Freedom he had, day after day, come upon Henry Kimball standing
by his gate and looking at the sky. The man was one of Sam's old newspaper customers who stood
as a kind of figure in the town. It was said of him that in his youth he had been a gambler
on the Mississippi River and that he had taken part in more than one wild adventure in the
old days. After the Civil War he had come to end his days in Caxton, living alone and occupying
himself by keeping year after year a carefully tabulated record of weather variations. Once
or twice a month during the warm season he stumbled into Wildman's and, sitting by the stove,
talked boastfully of the accuracy of his records and the doings of a mangy dog that trotted
at his heels. In his present mood the endless sameness and uneventfulness of the man's life
seemed to Sam amusing and in some way sad.

"To depend upon going to the gate and looking at the sky to give point to a day--to look forward
to and depend upon that--what deadliness!" he thought, and, thrusting his hand into his pocket,
felt with pleasure the letter from the Chicago company that was to open so much of the big
outside world to him.

In spite of the shock of unexpected sadness that had come with what he felt was almost a definite
parting with Freedom, and the sadness brought on by his mother's approaching death, Sam felt
a strong thrill of confidence in his own future that made his homeward walk almost cheerful. (As
she tells BROWNING) I praise the man "stamp Phoenician," Ulysses "universal", which expressed
many faces, all man-made; polutropos, polumetis, tlemon, polutlas,
polumekanos, poikilometis, poluphron, daïphron, talasiphron.

(What's peck p!) Never foiled in battle! The Supreme Council! His oratory snow flakes snow
storm. Phoenician representative superb!

"But beyond that Ulysses universality in arts of life, he stamped Phoenician in what may be
called his craft." Aha! "Old Parliamentary hand" of the period's clear. Wonder if Max thought about
it! Hellas and Phoenicia combined! As a statesman of classical culture, craft and commercial
instincts, what a brilliant success Odysseus had been in those days!
He entered the cave Cyclops "To see what could spy, he killed his oxen, his sheep stolen, and
then poked in the eye, 
that he doggerelist licentious.

Sounds a bit "predatory", probably as it says Salisbury. But quite capable of being "spiritualised"
a liberal political sound against narrow Poluphemos property and privilege.
Overall, I had an old time high among Orientalists. But when the discussion forward, I wanted to throw
my mask and rushes, Achilles-like, in the fray.

MAX, but thought it might be inconsistent with my "huge humanity", so very unwillingly, I refrained.
 Instead she has been watching me as the old
man watches his thermometer and Father has been the dog in her house chasing playthings." The
figure pleased him. He stood at the gate, the wind singing in the trees along the street and
driving an occasional drop of rain against his cheek, and thought of it and of his life with
his mother. During the last two or three years he had been trying to make things up to her.
After the sale of the newspaper business and the beginning of his success with Freedom he had
driven her from the washtub and since the beginning of her ill health he had spent evening
after evening with her instead of going to Wildman's to sit with the four friends and hear
the talk that went on among them. No more did he walk with Telfer or Mary Underwood on country
roads but sat, instead, by the bedside of the sick woman or, the night falling fair, helped
her to an arm chair upon the grass plot at the front of the house.

The years, Sam felt, had been good years. They had brought him an understanding of his mother
and had given a seriousness and purpose to the ambitious plans he continued to make for himself.
Alone together, the mother and he had talked little, the habit of a lifetime making much speech
impossible to her and the growing understanding of her making it unnecessary to him. Now in
the darkness, before the house, he thought of the evenings he had spent with her and of the
pitiful waste that had been made of her fine life. Things that had hurt him and against which
he had been bitter and unforgiving became of small import, even the doings of the pretentious
Windy, who in the face of Jane's illness continued to go off after pension day for long periods
of drunkenness, and who only came home to weep and wail through the house, when the pension
money was gone, regretting, Sam tried in fairness to think, the loss of both the washwoman
and the wife.

"She has been the most wonderful woman in the world," he told himself and tears of happiness
came into his eyes at the thought of his friend, John Telfer, who in bygone days had praised
the mother to the newsboy trotting beside him on moonlit roads. Into his mind came a picture
of her long gaunt face, ghastly now against the white of the pillows. A picture of George Eliot,
tacked to the wall behind a broken harness in the kitchen of Freedom Smith's house, had caught
his eye some days before, and in the darkness he took it from his pocket and put it to his
lips, realising that in some indescribable way it was like his mother as she had been before
her illness. Freedom's wife had given him the picture and he had been carrying it, taking it
out of his pocket on lonely stretches of road as he went about his work.

Sam went quietly around the house and stood by an old shed, a relic of an attempt by Windy
to embark in raising chickens. He wanted to continue the thoughts of his mother. He began recalling
her youth and the details of a long talk they had held together on the lawn before the house.
It was extraordinarily vivid in his mind. He thought that even now he could remember every
word that had been said. The sick woman had talked of her youth in Ohio, and as she talked
pictures had come into the boy's mind. She had told him of her days as a bound girl in the
family of a thin- lipped, hard-fisted New Englander, who had come West to take a farm, and
of her struggles to obtain an education, of the pennies saved to buy books, of her joy when
she had passed examinations and become a school teacher, and of her marriage to Windy--then
John McPherson.

Into the Ohio village the young McPherson had come, to cut a figure in the town's life. Sam
had smiled at the picture she drew of the young man who walked up and down the village street
with girls on his arms, and who taught a Bible class in the Sunday school.

When Windy proposed to the young school teacher she had accepted him eagerly, thinking it unbelievably
romantic that so dashing a man should have chosen so obscure a figure among all the women of
the town.

"And even now I am not sorry although it has meant nothing but labour and unhappiness for me,"
the sick woman had told her son.

After marriage to the young dandy, Jane had come with him to Caxton where he bought a store
and where, within three years, he had put the store into the sheriff's hands and his wife into
the position of town laundress.

In the darkness a grim smile, half scorn, half amusement, had flitted across the face of the
dying woman as she told of a winter when Windy and another young fellow went, from schoolhouse
to schoolhouse, over the state giving a show. The ex-soldier had become a singer of comic songs
and had written letter after letter to the young wife telling of the applause that greeted
his efforts. Sam could picture the performances, the little dimly- lighted schoolhouses with
the weatherbeaten faces shining in the light of the leaky magic lantern, and the delighted
Windy running here and there, talking the jargon of stageland, arraying himself in his motley
and strutting upon the little stage.

"And all winter he did not send me a penny," the sick woman had said, interrupting his thoughts.

Aroused at last to expression, and filled with the memory of her youth, the silent woman had
talked of her own people. Her father had been killed in the woods by a falling tree. Of her
mother she told an anecdote, touching it briefly and with a grim humour that surprised her son.

The young school teacher had gone to call upon her mother once and for an hour had sat in the
parlour of an Ohio farmhouse while a fierce old woman looked at her with bold questioning eyes
that made the daughter feel she had been a fool to come.

At the railroad station she had heard an anecdote of her mother. The story ran, that once a
burly tramp came to the farmhouse, and finding the woman alone tried to bully her, and that
the tramp, and the woman, then in her prime, fought for an hour in the back yard of the house.
The railroad agent, who told Jane the story, threw back his head and laughed.

"She knocked him out, too," he said, "knocked him cold upon the ground and then filled him
up with hard cider so that he came reeling into town declaring her the finest woman in the state."

In the darkness by the broken shed Sam's mind turned from thoughts of his mother to his sister
Kate and of her love affair with the young farmer. He thought with sadness of how she too had
suffered because of the failings of the father, of how she had been compelled to go out of
the house to wander in the dark streets to avoid the endless evenings of war talk always brought
on by a guest in the McPherson household, and of the night when, getting a rig from Culvert's
livery, she had driven off alone into the country to return in triumph to pack her clothes
and show her wedding ring.

Before him there rose a picture of a summer afternoon when he had seen a part of the love making
that had preceded this. He had gone into the store to see his sister when the young farmer
came in, looked awkwardly about and pushed a new gold watch across the counter to Kate. A sudden
wave of respect for his sister had pervaded the boy. "What a sum it must have cost," he thought,
and looked with new interest at the back of the lover and at the flushed cheek and shining
eyes of his sister. When the lover, turning, had seen young McPherson standing at the counter,
he laughed self-consciously and walked out at the door. Kate had been embarrassed and secretly
pleased and flattered by the look in her brother's eyes, but had pretended to treat the gift
lightly, twirling it carelessly back and forth on the counter and walking up and down swinging
her arms.

"Don't go telling," she had said.

"Then don't go pretending," the boy had answered.

Sam thought that his sister's indiscretion, which had brought her a babe and a husband in the
same month had, after all, ended better than the indiscretion of his mother in her marriage
with Windy.

Rousing himself, he went into the house. A neighbour woman, employed for the purpose, had prepared
the evening meal and now began complaining of his lateness, saying that the food had got cold.

Sam ate in silence. While he ate the woman went out of the house and presently returned, bringing
a daughter.

There was in Caxton a code that would not allow a woman to be alone in a house with a man.
Sam wondered if the bringing of the daughter was an attempt on the part of the woman to abide
by the letter of the code, if she thought of the sick woman in the house as one already gone.
The thought amused and saddened him.

"You would have thought her safe," he mused. She was fifty, small, nervous and worn and wore
a set of ill-fitting false teeth that rattled as she talked. When she did not talk she rattled
them with her tongue because of nervousness.

In at the kitchen door came Windy, far gone in drink. He stood by the door holding to the knob
with his hand and trying to get control of himself.

"My wife--my wife is dying. She may die any day," he wailed, tears standing in his eyes.

The woman with the daughter went into the little parlour where a bed had been put for the sick
woman. Sam sat at the kitchen table dumb with anger and disgust as Windy, lurching forward,
fell into a chair and began sobbing loudly. In the road outside a man driving a horse stopped
and Sam could hear the scraping of the wheels against the buggy body as the man turned in the
narrow street. Above the scraping of the wheels rose a voice, swearing profanely. The wind
continued to blow and it had begun to rain.

"He has got into the wrong street," thought the boy stupidly.

Windy, his head upon his hands, wept like a brokenhearted boy, his sobs echoing through the
house, his breath heavy with liquor tainting the air of the room. In a corner by the stove
the mother's ironing board stood against the wall and the sight of it added fuel to the anger
smouldering in Sam's heart. He remembered the day when he had stood in the store doorway with
his mother and had seen the dismal and amusing failure of his father with the bugle, and of
the months before Kate's wedding, when Windy had gone blustering about town threatening to
kill her lover and the mother and boy had stayed with the girl, out of sight in the house,
sick with humiliation.

The drunken man, laying his head upon the table, fell asleep, his snores replacing the sobs
that had stirred the boy's anger. Sam began thinking again of his mother's life.

The effort he had made to repay her for the hardness of her life now seemed utterly fruitless.
"I would like to repay him," he thought, shaken with a sudden spasm of hatred as he looked
at the man before him. The cheerless little kitchen, the cold, half-baked potatoes and sausages
on the table, and the drunken man asleep, seemed to him a kind of symbol of the life that had
been lived in that house, and with a shudder he turned his face and stared at the wall.

He thought of a dinner he had once eaten at Freedom Smith's house. Freedom had brought the
invitation into the stables on that night just as to-night he had brought the letter from the
Chicago company, and just as Sam was shaking his head in refusal of the invitation in at the
stable door had come the children. Led by the eldest, a great tomboy girl of fourteen with
the strength of a man and an inclination to burst out of her clothes at unexpected places,
they had come charging into the stables to carry Sam off to the dinner, Freedom laughingly
urging them on, his voice roaring in the stable so that the horses jumped about in their stalls.
Into the house they had dragged him, the baby, a boy of four, sitting astride his back and
beating on his head with a woollen cap, and Freedom swinging a lantern and giving an occasional
helpful push with his hand.

A picture of the long table covered with the white cloth at the end of the big dining room
in Freedom's house came back into the mind of the boy now sitting in the barren little kitchen
before the untasted, badly-cooked food. Upon it lay a profusion of bread and meat and great
dishes heaped with steaming potatoes. At his own house there had always been just enough food
for the single meal. The thing was nicely calculated, when you had finished the table was bare.

How he had enjoyed that dinner after the long day on the road. With a flourish and a roar at
the children Freedom heaped high the plates and passed them about, the wife or the tomboy girl
bringing unending fresh supplies from the kitchen. The joy of the evening with its talk of
the children in school, its sudden revelation of the womanliness of the tomboy girl, and its
air of plenty and good living haunted the mind of the boy.

"My mother never knew anything like that," he thought.

The drunken man who had been sleeping aroused himself and began talking loudly--some old forgotten
grievance coming back to his mind, he talked of the cost of school books.

"They change the books in the school too often," he declared in a loud voice, turning and facing
the kitchen stove, as though addressing an audience. "It is a scheme to graft on old soldiers
who have children. I will not stand it."

Sam, enraged beyond speech, tore a leaf from a notebook and scrawled a message upon it.

"Be silent," he wrote. "If you say another word or make another sound to disturb mother I will
choke you and throw you like a dead dog into the street."

Reaching across the table and touching his father on the hand with a fork taken from among
the dishes, he laid the note upon the table under the lamp before his eyes. He was fighting
with himself to control a desire to spring across the room and kill the man who he believed
had brought his mother to her death and who now sat bellowing and talking at her very death
bed. The desire distorted his mind so that he stared about the kitchen like one seized with
an insane nightmare.

Windy, taking the note in his hand, read it slowly and then, not understanding its import and
but half getting its sense, put it in his pocket.

"A dog is dead, eh?" he shouted. "Well you're getting too big and smart, lad. What do I care
for a dead dog?"

Sam did not answer. Rising cautiously, he crept around the table and put his hand upon the
throat of the babbling old man.

"I must not kill," he kept telling himself aloud, as though talking to a stranger. "I must
choke until he is silent, but I must not kill."

In the kitchen the two men struggled silently. Windy, unable to rise, struck out wildly and
helplessly with his feet. Sam, looking down at him and studying the eyes and the colour in
the cheeks, realised with a start that he had not for years seen the face of his father. How
vividly it stamped itself upon his mind now, and how coarse and sodden it had become.

"I could repay all of the years mother has spent over the dreary washtub by just one long,
hard grip at this lean throat. I could kill him with so little extra pressure," he thought.

The eyes began to stare at him and the tongue to protrude. Across the forehead ran a streak
of mud picked up somewhere in the long afternoon of drunken carousing.

"If I were to press hard now and kill him I would see his face as it looks now all the days
of my life," thought the boy.

In the silence of the house he heard the voice of the neighbour woman speaking sharply to her
daughter. The familiar, dry, tired cough of the sick woman followed. Sam took the unconscious
old man in his arms and went carefully and silently out at the kitchen door. The rain beat
down upon him and, as he went around the house with his burden, the wind, shaking loose a dead
branch from a small apple tree in the yard, blew it against his face, leaving a long smarting
scratch. At the fence before the house he stopped and threw his burden down a short grassy
bank into the road. Then turning he went, bareheaded, through the gate and up the street.

"I will go for Mary Underwood," he thought, his mind returning to the friend who years before
had walked with him on country roads and whose friendship he had dropped because of John Telfer's
tirades against all women. He stumbled along the sidewalk, the rain beating down upon his bare
head.

"We need a woman in our house," he kept saying over and over to himself. "We need a woman in
our house."

CHAPTER VII

Leaning against the wall under the veranda of Mary Underwood's house, Sam tried to get in his
mind a remembrance of what had brought him there. He had walked bareheaded through Main Street
and out along a country road. Twice he had fallen, covering his clothes with mud. He had forgotten
the purpose of his walk and had tramped on and on. The unexpected and terrible hatred of his
father that had come upon him in the tense silence of the kitchen had so paralysed his brain
that he now felt light-headed and wonderfully happy and carefree.

"I have been doing something," he thought; "I wonder what it is."

The house faced a grove of pine trees and was reached by climbing a little rise and following
a winding road out beyond the graveyard and the last of the village lights. The wild spring
rain pounded and rattled on the tin roof overhead, and Sam, his back closely pressed against
the front of the house, fought to regain control of his mind.

For an hour he stood there staring into the darkness and watched with delight the progress
of the storm. He had--an inheritance from his mother --a love of thunderstorms. He remembered
a night when he was a boy and his mother had got out of bed and gone here and there through
the house singing. She had sung softly so that the sleeping father did not hear, and in his
bed upstairs Sam had lain awake listening to the noises--the rain on the roof, the occasional
crash of thunder, the snoring of Windy, and the unusual and, he thought, beautiful sound of
the mother singing in the storm.

Now, lifting up his head, he looked about with delight. Trees in the grove in front of him
bent and tossed in the wind. The inky blackness of the night was relieved by the flickering
oil lamp in the road beyond the graveyard and, in the distance, by the lights streaming out
at the windows of the houses. The light coming out of the house against which he stood made
a little cylinder of brightness among the pine trees through which the raindrops fell gleaming
and sparkling. An occasional flash of lightning lit up the trees and the winding road, and
the cannonry of the skies rolled and echoed overhead. A kind of wild song sang in Sam's heart.

"I wish it would last all night," he thought, his mind fixed on the singing of his mother in
the dark house when he was a boy.

The door opened and a woman stepped out upon the veranda and stood before him facing the storm,
the wind tossing the soft kimono in which she was clad and the rain wetting her face. Under
the tin roof, the air was filled with the rattling reverberation of the rain. The woman lifted
her head and, with the rain beating down upon her, began singing, her fine contralto voice
rising above the rattle of the rain on the roof and going on uninterrupted by the crash of
the thunder. She sang of a lover riding through the storm to his mistress. One refrain persisted
in the song--

  "He rode and he thought of her red, red lips,"

sang the woman, putting her hand upon the railing of the little porch and leaning forward into
the storm.

Sam was amazed. The woman standing before him was Mary Underwood, who had been his friend when
he was a boy in school and toward whom his mind had turned after the tragedy in the kitchen.
The figure of the woman standing singing before him became a part of his thoughts of his mother
singing on the stormy night in the house and his mind wandered on, seeing pictures as he used
to see them when a boy walking under the stars and listening to the talk of John Telfer. He
saw a broad-shouldered man shouting defiance to the storm as he rode down a mountain path.

"And he laughed at the rain on his wet, wet cloak," went on the voice of the singer.

Mary Underwood's singing there in the rain made her seem near and likeable as she had seemed
to him when he was a barefoot boy.

"John Telfer was wrong about her," he thought.

She turned and faced him. Tiny streams of water ran from her hair down across her cheeks. A
flash of lightning cut the darkness, illuminating the spot where Sam, now a broad-shouldered
man, stood with the mud upon his clothes and the bewildered look upon his face. A sharp exclamation
of surprise broke from her lips:

"Hello, Sam! What are you doing here? You had better get in out of the rain."

"I like it here," replied Sam, lifting his head and looking past her at the storm.

Walking to the door and standing with her hand upon the knob, Mary looked into the darkness.

"You have been a long time coming to see me," she said, "come in."

Within the house, with the door closed, the rattle of the rain on the veranda roof sank to
a subdued, quiet drumming. Piles of books lay upon a table in the centre of the room and there
were other books on the shelves along the walls. On a table burned a student's lamp and in
the corners of the room lay heavy shadows.

Sam stood by the wall near the door looking about with half-seeing eyes.

Mary, who had gone to another part of the house and who now returned clad in a long cloak,
looked at him with quick curiosity, and began moving about the room picking up odds and ends
of woman's clothing scattered on the chairs. Kneeling, she lighted a fire under some sticks
piled in an open grate at the side of the room.

"It was the storm made me want to sing," she said self-consciously, and then briskly, "we shall
have to be drying you out; you have fallen in the road and got yourself covered with mud."

From being morose and silent Sam became talkative. An idea had come into his mind.

"I have come here courting," he thought; "I have come to ask Mary Underwood to be my wife and
live in my house."

The woman, kneeling by the blazing sticks, made a picture that aroused something that had been
sleeping in him. The heavy cloak she wore, falling away, showed the round little shoulders
imperfectly covered by the kimono, wet and clinging to them. The slender, youthful figure,
the soft grey hair and the serious little face, lit by the burning sticks caused a jumping
of his heart.

"We are needing a woman in our house," he said heavily, repeating the words that had been on
his lips as he stumbled through the storm-swept streets and along the mud-covered roads. "We
are needing a woman in our house, and I have come to take you there.

"I intend to marry you," he added, lurching across the room and grasping her roughly by the
shoulders. "Why not? I am needing a woman."

Mary Underwood was dismayed and frightened by the face looking down at her, and by the strong
hands clenched upon her shoulders. In his youth she had conceived a kind of maternal passion
for the newsboy and had planned a future for him. Her plans if followed would have made him
a scholar, a man living his life among books and ideas. Instead, he had chosen to live his
life among men, to be a money-maker, to drive about the country like Freedom Smith, making
deals with farmers. She had seen him driving at evening through the street to Freedom's house,
going in and out of Wildman's, and walking through the streets with men. In a dim way she knew
that an influence had been at work upon him to win him from the things of which she had dreamed
and she had secretly blamed John Telfer, the talking, laughing idler. Now, out of the storm,
the boy had come back to her, his hands and his clothes covered with the mud of the road, and
talked to her, a woman old enough to be his mother, of marriage and of coming to live with
him in his house. She stood, chilled, looking into the eager, strong face and the eyes with
the pained, dazed look in them.

Under her gaze, something of the old feeling of the boy came back to Sam, and he began vaguely
trying to tell her of it.

"It was not the talk of Telfer drove me from you," he began, "it was because you talked so
much of the schools and of books. I was tired of them. I could not go on year after year sitting
in a stuffy little schoolroom when there was so much money to be made in the world. I grew
tired of the school teachers, drumming with their fingers on the desks and looking out at the
windows at men passing in the street. I wanted to get out of there and into the streets myself."

Dropping his hands from her shoulders, he sat down in a chair and stared into the fire, now
blazing steadily. Steam began to rise from his trousers legs. His mind, still working beyond
his control, began to reconstruct an old boyhood fancy, half his own, half John Telfer's, that
had years before come into his mind. It concerned a picture he and Telfer had made of the ideal
scholar. The picture had, as its central figure, a stoop-shouldered, feeble old man stumbling
along the street, muttering to himself and poking in a gutter with a stick. The picture was
a caricature of puttering old Frank Huntley, superintendent of the Caxton schools.

Sitting before the fire in Mary Underwood's house, become, for the moment, a boy, facing a
boy's problems, Sam did not want to be such a man. He wanted only that in scholarship which
would help him to be the kind of man he was bent on being, a man of the world doing the work
of the world and making money by his work. Things he had been unable to get expressed when
he was a boy and her friend, coming again into his mind, he felt that he must here and now
make it plain to Mary Underwood that the schools were not giving him what he wanted. His brain
worked on the problem of how to tell her about it.

Turning, he looked at her and said earnestly: "I am going to quit the schools. It is not your
fault, but I am going to quit just the same."

Mary, who had been looking down at the great mud-covered figure in the chair began to understand.
A light came into her eyes. Going to the door opening into a stairway leading to sleeping rooms
above, she called sharply, "Auntie, come down here at once. There is a sick man here."

A startled, trembling voice answered from above, "Who is it?"

Mary Underwood did not answer. She came back to Sam and, putting her hand gently on his shoulder,
said, "It is your mother and you are only a sick, half-crazed boy after all. Is she dead? Tell
me about it."

Sam shook his head. "She is still there in the bed, coughing." He roused himself and stood
up. "I have just killed my father," he announced. "I choked him and threw him down the bank
into the road in front of the house. He made horrible noises in the kitchen and mother was
tired and wanted to sleep."

Mary Underwood began running about the room. From a little alcove under a stairway she took
clothes, throwing them upon the floor about the room. She pulled on a stocking and, unconscious
of Sam's presence, raised her skirts and fastened it. Then, putting one shoe on the stockinged
foot and the other on the bare one, she turned to him. "We will go back to your house. I think
you are right. You need a woman there."

In the street she walked rapidly along, clinging to the arm of the tall fellow who strode silently
beside her. A cheerfulness had come over Sam. He felt he had accomplished something--something
he had set out to accomplish. He again thought of his mother and drifting into the notion that
he was on his way home from work at Freedom Smith's, began planning the evening he would spend
with her.

"I will tell her of the letter from the Chicago company and of what I will do when I go to
the city," he thought.

At the gate before the McPherson house Mary looked into the road below the grassy bank that
ran down from the fence, but in the darkness she could see nothing. The rain continued to fall
and the wind screamed and shouted as it rushed through the bare branches of the trees. Sam
went through the gate and around the house to the kitchen door intent upon getting to his mother's
bedside.

In the house the neighbour woman sat asleep in a chair before the kitchen stove. The daughter
had gone.

Sam went through the house to the parlour and sat down in a chair beside his mother's bed,
picking up her hand and holding it in his own. "She must be asleep," he thought.

At the kitchen door Mary Underwood stopped, and, turning, ran away into the darkness along
the street. By the kitchen fire the neighbour woman still slept. In the parlour Sam, sitting
on the chair beside his mother's bed, looked about him. A lamp burned dimly upon the little
stand beside the bed and the light of it fell upon the portrait of a tall, aristocratic-looking
woman with rings on her fingers, that hung upon the wall. The picture belonged to Windy and
was claimed by him as a portrait of his mother, and it had once brought on a quarrel between
Sam and his sister.

Kate had taken the portrait of the lady seriously, and the boy had come upon her sitting in
a chair before it, her hair rearranged and her hands lying in her lap in imitation of the pose
maintained so haughtily by the great lady who looked down at her.

"It is a fraud," he had declared, irritated by what he believed his sister's devotion to one
of the father's pretensions. "It is a fraud he has picked up somewhere and now claims as his
mother to make people believe he is something big."

The girl, ashamed at having been caught in the pose, and furious because of the attack upon
the authenticity of the portrait, had gone into a spasm of indignation, putting her hands to
her ears and stamping on the floor with her foot. Then she had run across the room and dropped
upon her knees before a little couch, buried her face in a pillow and shook with anger and grief.

Sam had turned and walked out of the room. The emotions of the sister had seemed to him to
have the flavour of one of Windy's outbreaks.

"She likes it," he had thought, dismissing the incident. "She likes believing in lies. She
is like Windy and would rather believe in them than not."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mary Underwood ran through the rain to John Telfer's house and beat on the door with her fist
until Telfer, followed by Eleanor, holding a lamp above her head, appeared at the door. With
Telfer she went back through the streets to the front of Sam's house thinking of the terrible
choked and disfigured man they should find there. She went along clinging to Telfer's arm as
she had clung to Sam's, unconscious of her bare head and scanty attire. In his hand Telfer
carried a lantern secured from the stable.

In the road before the house they found nothing. Telfer went up and down swinging the lantern
and peering into gutters. The woman walked beside him, her skirts lifted and the mud splashing
upon her bare leg.

Suddenly Telfer threw back his head and laughed. Taking her hand he led Mary with a rush up
the bank and through the gate.

"What a muddle-headed old fool I am!" he cried. "I am getting old and addle-pated! Windy McPherson
is not dead! Nothing could kill that old war horse! He was in at Wildman's grocery after nine
o'clock to-night covered with mud and swearing he had been in a fight with Art Sherman. Poor
Sam and you--to have come to me and to have found me a stupid ass! Fool! Fool! What a fool
I have become!"

In at the kitchen door ran Mary and Telfer, frightening the woman by the stove so that she
sprang to her feet and began nervously making the false teeth rattle with her tongue. In the
parlour they found Sam, his head upon the edge of the bed, asleep. In his hand he held the
cold hand of Jane McPherson. She had been dead for an hour. Mary Underwood stooped over and
kissed his wet hair as the neighbour woman came in at the doorway bearing the kitchen lamp,
and John Telfer, holding his finger to his lips, commanded silence.

CHAPTER VIII

The funeral of Jane McPherson was a trying affair for her son. He thought that his sister Kate,
with the babe in her arms, had become coarsened--she looked frumpish and, while they were in
the house, had an air of having quarrelled with her husband when they came out of their bedroom
in the morning. During the funeral service Sam sat in the parlour, astonished and irritated
by the endless number of women that crowded into the house. They were everywhere, in the kitchen,
the sleeping room back of the parlour; and in the parlour, where the dead woman lay in her
coffin, they were massed. When the thin-lipped minister, holding a book in his hand, held forth
upon the virtues of the dead woman, they wept. Sam looked at the floor and thought that thus
they would have wept over the body of the dead Windy, had his fingers but tightened a trifle.
He wondered if the minister would have talked in the same way--blatantly and without knowledge--of
the virtues of the dead. In a chair at the side of the coffin the bereaved husband, in new
black clothes, wept audibly. The baldheaded, officious undertaker kept moving nervously about,
intent upon the ritual of his trade.

During the service, a man sitting behind him dropped a note on the floor at Sam's feet. Sam
picked it up and read it, glad of something to distract his attention from the voice of the
minister, and the faces of the weeping women, none of whom had before been in the house and
all of whom he thought strikingly lacking in a sense of the sacredness of privacy. The note
was from John Telfer.

"I will not come to your mother's funeral," he wrote. "I respected your mother while she lived
and I will leave you alone with her now that she is dead. In her memory I will hold a ceremony
in my heart. If I am in Wildman's, I may ask the man to quit selling soap and tobacco for the
moment and to close and lock the door. If I am at Valmore's shop, I will go up into his loft
and listen to him pounding on the anvil below. If he or Freedom Smith go to your house, I warn
them I will cut their friendship. When I see the carriages going through the street and know
that the thing is right well done and over, I will buy flowers and take them to Mary Underwood
as an appreciation of the living in the name of the dead."

The note cheered and comforted Sam. It gave him back a grip of something that had slipped from him.

"It is good sense, after all," he thought, and realised that even in the days when he was being
made to suffer horrors, and in the face of the fact that Jane McPherson's long, hard role was
just being played out to the end, the farmer in the field was sowing his corn, Valmore was
beating upon his anvil, and John Telfer was writing notes with a flourish. He arose, interrupting
the minister's discourse. Mary Underwood had come in just as the minister began talking and
had dropped into an obscure corner near the door leading into the street. Sam crowded past
the women who stared and the minister who frowned and the baldheaded undertaker who wrung his
hands and, dropping the note into her lap, said, oblivious of the people looking and listening
with breathless curiosity, "It is from John Telfer. Read it. Even he, hating women as he did,
is now bringing flowers to your door."

In the room a wind of whispered comments sprang up. Women, putting their heads together and
their hands before their faces, nodded toward the school teacher, and the boy, unconscious
of the sensation he had created, went back to his chair and looked again at the floor, waiting
until the talk and the singing of songs and the parading through the streets should be ended.
Again the minister began reading from the book.

"I have become older than all of these people here," thought the youth. "They play at life
and death, and I have felt it between the fingers of my hand."

Mary Underwood, lacking Sam's unconsciousness of the people, looked about with burning cheeks.
Seeing the women whispering and putting their heads together, a chill of fear ran through her.
Into the room had been thrust the face of an old enemy to her--the scandal of a small town.
Picking up the note she slipped out at the door and stole away along the street. The old maternal
love for Sam had returned strengthened and ennobled by the terror through which she had passed
with him that night in the rain. Going to her house she whistled the collie dog and set out
along a country road. At the edge of a grove of trees she stopped, sat down on a log, and read
Telfer's note. From the soft ground into which her feet sank there came the warm pungent smell
of the new growth. Tears came into her eyes. She thought that in a few days much had come to
her. She had got a boy upon whom she could pour out the mother love in her heart, and she had
made a friend of Telfer, whom she had long regarded with fear and doubt.

For a month Sam lingered in Caxton. It seemed to him there was something that wanted doing
there. He sat with the men at the back of Wildman's, and walked aimlessly through the streets
and out of the town along the country roads, where men worked all day in the fields behind
sweating horses, ploughing the land. The thrill of spring was in the air, and in the evening
a song sparrow sang in the apple tree below his bedroom window. Sam walked and loitered in
silence, looking at the ground. In his mind was the dread of people. The talk of the men in
the store wearied him and when he went alone into the country he found himself accompanied
by the voices of all of those he had come out of town to escape. On the street corner the thin-lipped,
brown-bearded minister stopped him and talked of the future life as he had stopped and talked
to a bare-legged newsboy.

"Your mother," he said, "has but gone before. It is for you to get into the narrow path and
follow her. God has sent this sorrow as a warning to you. He wants you also to get into the
way of life and in the end to join her. Begin coming to our church. Join in the work of the
Christ. Find truth."

Sam, who had listened without hearing, shook his head and went on. The minister's talk seemed
no more than a meaningless jumble of words out of which he got but one thought.

"Find truth," he repeated to himself after the minister, and let his mind play with the idea.
"The best men are all trying to do that. They spend their lives at the task. They are all trying
to find truth."

He went along the street, pleased with himself because of the interpretation he had put upon
the minister's words. The terrible moments in the kitchen followed by his mother's death had
put a new look of seriousness into his face and he felt within him a new sense of responsibility
to the dead woman and to himself. Men stopped him on the street and wished him well in the
city. News of his leaving had become public. Things in which Freedom Smith was concerned were
always public affairs.

"He would take a drum with him to make love to a neighbour's wife," said John Telfer.

Sam felt that in a way he was a child of Caxton. Early it had taken him to its bosom; it had
made of him a semi-public character; it had encouraged him in his money-making, humiliated
him through his father, and patronised him lovingly because of his toiling mother. When he
was a boy, scurrying between the legs of the drunkards in Piety Hollow of a Saturday night,
there was always some one to speak a word to him of his morals and to shout at him a cheering
word of advice. Had he elected to remain there, with the thirty-five hundred dollars already
in the Savings Bank--built to that during his years with Freedom Smith--he might soon become
one of the town's solid men.

He did not want to stay. He felt that his call was in another place and that he would go there
gladly. He wondered why he did not get on the train and be off.

One night when he had been late on the road, loitering by fences, hearing the lonely barking
of dogs at distant farmhouses, getting the smell of the new-ploughed ground into his nostrils,
he came into town and sat down on a low iron fence that ran along by the platform of the railroad
station, to wait for the midnight train north. Trains had taken on a new meaning to him since
any day might see him on such a train bound into his new life.

A man, with two bags in his hands, came on the station platform followed by two women.

"Here, watch these," he said to the women, setting the bags upon the platform; "I will go for
the tickets," and disappeared into the darkness.

The two women resumed their interrupted talk.

"Ed's wife has been poorly these ten years," said one of them. "It will be better for her and
for Ed now that she is dead, but I dread the long ride. I wish she had died when I was in Ohio
two years ago. I am sure to be train-sick."

Sam, sitting in the darkness, was thinking of a part of one of John Telfer's old talks with him.

"They are good people but they are not your people. You will go away from here. You will be
a big man of dollars, it is plain."

He began listening idly to the two women. The man had a shop for mending shoes on a side street
back of Geiger's drug store and the two women, one short and round, one long and thin, kept
a small, dingy millinery shop and were Eleanor Telfer's only competitors.

"Well, the town knows her now for what she is," said the tall woman. "Milly Peters says she
won't rest until she has put that stuck-up Mary Underwood in her place. Her mother worked in
the McPherson house and it was her told Milly. I never heard such a story. To think of Jane
McPherson working all these years and then having such goings-on in her house when she lay
dying, Milly says that Sam went away early in the evening and came home late with that Underwood
thing, half dressed, hanging on his arm. Milly's mother looked out of the window and saw them.
Then she ran out by the kitchen stove and pretended to be asleep. She wanted to see what was
up. And the bold hussy came right into the house with Sam. Then she went away, and after a
while back she came with that John Telfer. Milly is going to see that Eleanor Telfer finds
it out. I guess it will bring her down, too. And there is no telling how many other men in
this town Mary Underwood is running with. Milly says----"

The two women turned as out of the darkness came a tall figure roaring and swearing. Two hands
flashed out and sank into their hair.

"Stop it!" growled Sam, beating the two heads together, "stop your dirty lies!--you ugly she-beasts!"

Hearing the two women screaming the man who had gone for the railroad tickets came running
down the station platform followed by Jerry Donlin. Springing forward Sam knocked the shoemaker
over the iron fence into a newly spaded flower bed and then turned to the baggage man.

"They were telling lies about Mary Underwood," he shouted. "She tried to save me from killing
my father and now they are telling lies about her."

The two women picked up the bags and ran whimpering away along the station platform. Jerry
Donlin climbed over the iron fence and confronted the surprised and frightened shoemaker.

"What the Hell are you doing in my flower bed?" he growled.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hurrying through the streets Sam's mind was in a ferment. Like the Roman emperor he wished
that all the world had but one head that he might cut it off with a slash. The town that had
seemed so paternal, so cheery, so intent upon wishing him well, now seemed horrible. He thought
of it as a great, crawling, slimy thing lying in wait amid the cornfields.

"To be saying that of her, of that white soul!" he exclaimed aloud in the empty street, all
of his boyish loyalty and devotion to the woman who had put out a hand to him in his hour of
trouble aroused and burning in him.

He wished that he might meet another man and could hit him also a swinging blow on the nose
as he had hit the amazed shoemaker. He went to his own house and, leaning on the gate, stood
looking at it and swearing meaninglessly. Then, turning, he went again through the deserted
streets past the railroad station where, the midnight train having come and gone and Jerry
Donlin having gone home for the night, all was dark and quiet. He was filled with horror of
what Mary Underwood had seen at Jane McPherson's funeral.

"It is better to be utterly bad than to speak ill of another," he thought.

For the first time he realised another side of village life. In fancy he saw going past him
on the dark road a long file of women, women with coarse unlighted faces and dead eyes. Many
of the faces he knew. They were the faces of Caxton wives at whose houses he had delivered
papers. He remembered how eagerly they had run out of their houses to get the papers and how
they hung day after day over the details of sensational murder cases. Once, when a Chicago
girl had been murdered in a dive and the details were unusually revolting, two women, unable
to restrain their curiosity, had come to the station to wait for the train bringing the newspapers
and Sam had heard them rolling the horrid mess over and over on their tongues.

In every city and in every village there is a class of women, the thought of whom paralyses
the mind. They live their lives in small, unaired, unsanitary houses, and go on year after
year washing dishes and clothes-- only their fingers occupied. They read no good books, think
no clean thoughts, are made love to as John Telfer had said, with kisses in a darkened room
by a shame-faced yokel and, after marrying some such a yokel, live lives of unspeakable blankness.
Into the houses of these women come the husbands at evening, tired and uncommunicative, to
eat hurriedly and then go again into the streets or, the blessing of utter physical exhaustion
having come to them, to sit for an hour in stockinged feet before crawling away to sleep and
oblivion.

In these women is no light, no vision. They have instead certain fixed ideas to which they
cling with a persistency touching heroism. To the man they have snatched from society they
cling also with a tenacity to be measured only by their love of a roof over their heads and
the craving for food to put into their stomachs. Being mothers, they are the despair of reformers,
the shadow on the vision of dreamers and they put the black dread upon the heart of the poet
who cries, "The female of the species is more deadly than the male." At their worst they are
to be seen drunk with emotion amid the lurid horrors of a French Revolution or immersed in
the secret whispering, creeping terror of a religious persecution. At their best they are mothers
of half mankind. Wealth coming to them, they throw themselves into garish display of it and
flash upon the sight of Newport or Palm Beach. In their native lair in the close little houses,
they sleep in the bed of the man who has put clothes upon their backs and food into their mouths
because that is the usage of their kind and give him of their bodies grudgingly or willingly
as the laws of their physical needs direct. They do not love, they sell, instead, their bodies
in the market place and cry out that man shall witness their virtue because they had had the
joy of finding one buyer instead of the many of the red sisterhood. A fierce animalism in them
makes them cling to the babe at their breast and in the days of its softness and loveliness
they close their eyes and try to catch again an old fleeting dream of their girlhood, a something
vague, shadowy, no longer a part of them, brought with the babe out of the infinite. Having
passed beyond the land of dreams, they dwell in the land of emotions and weep over the bodies
of unknown dead or sit under the eloquence of evangelists, shouting of heaven and of hell--the
call to the one being brother to the call of the other--crying upon the troubled air of hot
little churches, where hope is fighting in the jaws of vulgarity, "The weight of my sins is
heavy on my soul." Along streets they go lifting heavy eyes to peer into the lives of others
and to get a morsel to roll upon their heavy tongues. Having fallen upon a side light in the
life of a Mary Underwood they return to it again and again as a dog to its offal. Something
touching the lives of such as walk in the clean air, dream dreams, and have the audacity to
be beautiful beyond the beauty of animal youth, maddens them, and they cry out, running from
kitchen door to kitchen door and tearing at the prize like a starved beast who has found a
carcass. Let but earnest women found a movement and crowd it forward to the day when it smacks
of success and gives promise of the fine emotion of achievement, and they fall upon it with
a cry, having hysteria rather than reason as their guiding impulse. In them is all of femininity--and
none of it. For the most part they live and die unseen, unknown, eating rank food, sleeping
overmuch, and sitting through summer afternoons rocking in chairs and looking at people passing
in the street. In the end they die full of faith, hoping for a life to come.

Sam stood upon the road fearing the attacks these women were now making on Mary Underwood.
The moon coming up, threw its light on the fields that lay beside the road and brought out
their early spring nakedness and he thought them dreary and hideous, like the faces of the
women that had been marching through his mind. He drew his overcoat about him and shivered
as he went on, the mud splashing him and the raw night air aggravating the dreariness of his
thoughts. He tried to revert to the assurance of the days before his mother's illness and to
get again the strong belief in his own destiny that had kept him at the money making and saving
and had urged him to the efforts to rise above the level of the man who bred him. He didn't
succeed. The feeling of age that had settled upon him in the midst of the people mourning over
the body of his mother came back, and, turning, he went along the road toward the town, saying
to himself: "I will go and talk to Mary Underwood."

While he waited on the veranda for Mary to open the door, he decided that after all a marriage
with her might lead to happiness. The half spiritual, half physical love of woman that is the
glory and mystery of youth was gone from him. He thought that if he could only drive from her
presence the fear of the faces that had been coming and going in his own mind he would, for
his own part, be content to live his life as a worker and money maker, one without dreams.

Mary Underwood came to the door wearing the same heavy long coat she had worn on that other
night and taking her by the hand Sam led her to the edge of the veranda. He looked with content
at the pine trees before the house, thinking that some benign influence must have guided the
hand that planted them there to stand clothed and decent amid the barrenness of the land at
the end of winter.

"What is it, boy?" asked the woman, and her voice was filled with anxiety. The maternal passion
again glowing in her had for days coloured all her thoughts, and with all the ardour of an
intense nature she had thrown herself into her love of Sam. Thinking of him, she felt in fancy
the pangs of birth, and in her bed at night relived with him his boyhood in the town and built
again her plans for his future. In the day time she laughed at herself and said tenderly, "You
are an old fool."

Brutally and frankly Sam told her of the thing he had heard on the station platform, looking
past her at the pine trees and gripping the veranda rail. From the dead land there came again
the smell of the new growth as it had come to him on the road before the revelation at the
railroad station.

"Something kept telling me not to go away," he said. "It must have been in the air--this thing.
Already these evil crawling things were at work. Oh, if only all the world, like you and Telfer
and some of the others here, had an appreciation of the sense of privacy."

Mary Underwood laughed quietly.

"I was more than half right when, in the old days, I dreamed of making you a man at work upon
the things of the mind," she said. "The sense of privacy indeed! What a fellow you have become!
John Telfer's method was better than my own. He has given you the knack of saying things with
a flourish."

Sam shook his head.

"Here is something that cannot be faced down with a laugh," he said stoutly. "Here is something
at you--it is tearing at you--it has got to be met. Even now women are waking up in bed and
turning the matter over in their minds. To-morrow they will be at you again. There is but one
way and we must take it. You and I will have to marry."

Mary looked at the serious new lines of his face.

"What a proposal!" she cried.

On an impulse she began singing, her voice fine and strong running through the quiet night.

  "He rode and he thought of her red, red lips,"

she sang, and laughed again.

"You should come like that," she said, and then, "you poor muddled boy. Don't you know that
I am your new mother?" she added, taking hold of his two arms and turning him about facing
her. "Don't be absurd. I don't want a husband or a lover. I want a son of my own and I have
found him. I adopted you here in this house that night when you came to me sick and covered
with mud. As for these women--away with them--I'll face them down --I did it once before and
I'll do it again. Go to your city and make your fight. Here in Caxton it is a woman's fight."

"It is horrible. You don't understand," Sam protested.

A grey, tired look came into Mary Underwood's face.

"I understand," she said. "I have been on that battlefield. It is to be won only by silence
and tireless waiting. Your very effort to help would make the matter worse."

The woman and the tall boy, suddenly become a man, stood in thought. She was thinking of the
end toward which her life was drifting. How differently she had planned it. She thought of
the college in Massachusetts and of the men and women walking under the elm trees there.

"But I have got me a son and I am going to keep him," she said aloud, putting her hand on Sam's
arm.

Very serious and troubled, Sam went down the gravel path toward the road. He felt there was
something cowardly in the part she had given him to play, but he could see no alternative.

"After all," he reflected, "it is sensible--it is a woman's battle."

Half way to the road he stopped and, running back, caught her in his arms and gave her a great hug.

"Good-bye, little Mother," he cried and kissed her upon the lips.

And she, watching him as he went again down the gravel path, was overcome with tenderness.
She went to the back of the porch and leaning against the house put her head upon her arm.
Then turning and smiling through her tears she called after him.

"Did you crack their heads hard, boy?" she asked.

       *       *       *       *       *

From Mary's house Sam went to his own. On the gravel path an idea had come to him. He went
into the house and, sitting down at the kitchen table with pen and ink, began writing. In the
sleeping room back of the parlour he could hear Windy snoring. He wrote carefully, erasing
and writing again. Then, drawing up a chair before the kitchen fire, he read over and over
what he had written, and putting on his coat went through the dawn to the house of Tom Comstock,
editor of the Caxton Argus, and roused him out of bed.

"I'll run it on the front page, Sam, and it won't cost you anything," Comstock promised. "But
why run it? Let the matter drop."

"I shall just have time to pack and get the morning train for Chicago," Sam thought.

Early the evening before, Telfer, Wildman, and Freedom Smith, at Valmore's suggestion, had
made a visit to Hunter's jewelry store. For an hour they bargained, selected, rejected, and
swore at the jeweller. When the choice was made and the gift lay shining against white cotton
in a box on the counter Telfer made a speech.

"I will talk straight to that boy," he declared, laughing. "I am not going to spend my time
training his mind for money making and then have him fail me. I shall tell him that if he doesn't
make money in that Chicago I shall come and take the watch from him."

Putting the gift into his pocket Telfer went out of the store and along the street to Eleanor's
shop. He strutted through the display room and into the workshop where Eleanor sat with a hat
on her knee.

"What am I going to do, Eleanor?" he demanded, standing with legs spread apart and frowning
down upon her, "what am I going to do without Sam?"

A freckle-faced boy opened the shop door and threw a newspaper on the floor. The boy had a
ringing voice and quick brown eyes. Telfer went again through the display room, touching with
his cane the posts upon which hung the finished hats, and whistling. Standing before the shop,
with the cane hooked upon his arm, he rolled a cigarette and watched the boy running from door
to door along the street.

"I shall have to be adopting a new son," he said musingly.

After Sam left, Tom Comstock stood in his white nightgown and re-read the statement just given
him. He read it over and over, and then, laying it on the kitchen table, filled and lighted
a corncob pipe. A draft of wind blew into the room under the kitchen door chilling his thin
shanks so that he drew his bare feet, one after the other, up behind the protective walls of
his nightgown.

"On the night of my mother's death," ran the statement, "I sat in the kitchen of our house
eating my supper when my father came in and began shouting and talking loudly, disturbing my
mother who was asleep. I put my hand at his throat and squeezed until I thought he was dead,
and carried him around the house and threw him into the road. Then I ran to the house of Mary
Underwood, who was once my schoolteacher, and told her what I had done. She took me home, awoke
John Telfer, and then went to look for the body of my father, who was not dead after all. John
McPherson knows this is true, if he can be made to tell the truth."

Tom Comstock shouted to his wife, a small nervous woman with red cheeks, who set up type in
the shop, did her own housework, and gathered most of the news and advertising for The Argus.

"Ain't that a slasher?" he asked, handing her the statement Sam had written.

"Well, it ought to stop the mean things they are saying about Mary Underwood," she snapped.
Then, taking the glasses from her nose, and looking at Tom, who, while he did not find time
to give her much help with The Argus, was the best checker player in Caxton and had once been
to a state tournament of experts in that sport, she added, "Poor Jane McPherson, to have had
a son like Sam and no better father for him than that liar Windy. Choked him, eh? Well, if
the men of this town had any spunk they would finish the job."

BOOK II

CHAPTER I

For two years Sam lived the life of a travelling buyer, visiting towns in Indiana, Illinois,
and Iowa, and making deals with men who, like Freedom Smith, bought the farmers' products.
On Sundays he sat in chairs before country hotels and walked in the streets of strange towns,
or, getting back to the city at the week end, went through the downtown streets and among the
crowds in the parks with young men he had met on the road. From time to time he went to Caxton
and sat for an hour with the men in Wildman's, stealing away later for an evening with Mary
Underwood.

In the store he heard news of Windy, who was laying close siege to the farmer's widow he later
married, and who seldom appeared in Caxton. In the store he saw the boy with freckles on his
nose--the same John Telfer had watched running along Main Street on the night when he went
to show Eleanor the gold watch bought for Sam and who sat now on the cracker barrel in the
store and later went with Telfer to dodge the swinging cane and listen to the eloquence poured
out on the night air. Telfer had not got the chance to stand with a crowd about him at the
railroad station and make a parting speech to Sam, and in secret he resented the loss of that
opportunity. After turning the matter over in his mind and thinking of many fine flourishes
and ringing periods to give colour to the speech he had been compelled to send the gift by
mail. And Sam, while the gift had touched him deeply and had brought back to his mind the essential
solid goodness of the town amid the cornfields, so that he lost much of the bitterness aroused
by the attack upon Mary Underwood, had been able to make but a tame and halting reply to the
four. In his room in Chicago he had spent an evening writing and rewriting, putting in and
taking out flourishes, and had ended by sending a brief line of thanks.

Valmore, whose affection for the boy had been a slow growth and who, now that he was gone,
missed him more than the others, once spoke to Freedom Smith of the change that had come over
young McPherson. Freedom sat in the wide old phaeton in the road before Valmore's shop as the
blacksmith walked around the grey mare, lifting her feet and looking at the shoes.

"What has happened to Sam--he has changed so much?" he asked, dropping a foot of the mare and
coming to lean upon the front wheel. "Already the city has changed him," he added regretfully.

Freedom took a match from his pocket and lighted the short black pipe.

"He bites off his words," continued Valmore; "he sits for an hour in the store and then goes
away, and doesn't come back to say good-bye when he leaves town. What has got into him?"

Freedom gathered up the reins and spat over the dashboard into the dust of the road. A dog
idling in the street jumped as though a stone had been hurled at him.

"If you had something he wanted to buy you would find he talked all right," he exploded. "He
skins me out of my eyeteeth every time he comes to town and then gives me a cigar wrapped in
tinfoil to make me like it."

       *       *       *       *       *

For some months after his hurried departure from Caxton the changing, hurrying life of the
city profoundly interested the tall strong boy from the Iowa village, who had the cold, quick
business stroke of the money- maker combined with an unusually active interest in the problems
of life and of living. Instinctively he looked upon business as a great game in which many
men sat, and in which the capable, quiet ones waited patiently until a certain moment and then
pounced upon what they would possess. With the quickness and accuracy of a beast at the kill
they pounced and Sam felt that he had that stroke, and in his deals with country buyers used
it ruthlessly. He knew the vague, uncertain look that came into the eyes of unsuccessful business
men at critical moments and watched for it and took advantage of it as a successful prize fighter
watches for a similar vague, uncertain look in the eyes of an opponent.

He had found his work, and had the assurance and the confidence that comes with that discovery.
The stroke that he saw in the hand of the successful business men about him is the stroke also
of the master painter, scientist, actor, singer, prize fighter. It was the hand of Whistler,
Balzac, Agassiz, and Terry McGovern. The sense of it had been in him when as a boy he watched
the totals grow in the yellow bankbook, and now and then he recognised it in Telfer talking
on a country road. In the city where men of wealth and power in affairs rubbed elbows with
him in the street cars and walked past him in hotel lobbies he watched and waited saying to
himself, "I also will be such a one."

Sam had not lost the vision that had come to him when as a boy he walked on the road and listened
to the talk of Telfer, but he now thought of himself as one who had not only a hunger for achievement
but also a knowledge of where to look for it. At times he had stirring dreams of vast work
to be done by his hand that made the blood race in him, but for the most part he went his way
quietly, making friends, looking about him, keeping his mind busy with his own thoughts, making
deals.

During his first year in the city he lived in the house of an ex-Caxton family named Pergrin
that had been in Chicago for several years, but that still continued to send its members, one
at a time, to spend summer vacations in the Iowa village. To these people he carried letters
handed him during the month after his mother's death, and letters regarding him had come to
them from Caxton. In the house, where eight people sat down to dinner, only three besides himself
were Caxton-bred, but thoughts and talk of the town pervaded the house and crept into every
conversation.

"I was thinking of old John Moore to-day--does he still drive that team of black ponies?" the
housekeeping sister, a mild-looking woman of thirty, would ask of Sam at the dinner table,
breaking in on a conversation of baseball, or a tale by one of the boarders of a new office
building to be erected in the Loop.

"No, he don't," Jake Pergrin, a fat bachelor of forty who was foreman in a machine shop and
the man of the house, would answer. So long had Jake been the final authority in the house
on affairs touching Caxton that he looked upon Sam as an intruder. "John told me last summer
when I was home that he intended to sell the blacks and buy mules," he would add, looking at
the youth challengingly.

The Pergrin family was in fact upon foreign soil. Living amid the roar and bustle of Chicago's
vast west side, it still turned with hungry heart toward the place of corn and of steers, and
wished that work for Jake, its mainstay, could be found in that paradise.

Jake Pergrin, a bald-headed man with a paunch, stubby iron-grey moustache, and a dark line
of machine oil encircling his finger nails so that they stood forth separately like formal
flower beds at the edge of a lawn, worked industriously from Monday morning until Saturday
night, going to bed at nine o'clock, and until that hour wandering, whistling, from room to
room through the house, in a pair of worn carpet slippers, or sitting in his room practising
on a violin. On Saturday evening, the habits formed in his Caxton days being strong in him,
he came home with his pay in his pocket, settled with the two sisters for the week's living,
sat down to dinner neatly shaved and combed, and then disappeared upon the troubled waters
of the town. Late on Sunday evening he re-appeared, with empty pockets, unsteady step, blood-shot
eyes, and a noisy attempt at self- possessed unconcern, to hurry upstairs and crawl into bed
in preparation for another week of toil and respectability. The man had a certain Rabelaisian
sense of humour and kept score of the new ladies met on his weekly flights by pencil marks
upon his bedroom wall. He once took Sam upstairs to show his record. A row of them ran half
around the room.

Besides the bachelor there was a sister, a tall gaunt woman of thirty-five who taught school,
and the housekeeper, thirty, mild, and blessed with a remarkably sweet speaking voice. Then
there was a medical student in the front room, Sam in an alcove off the hall, a grey-haired
woman stenographer, whom Jake called Marie Antoinette, and a buyer from a wholesale dry-goods
house, with a vivacious, fun-loving little Southern wife.

The women in the Pergrin house seemed to Sam tremendously concerned about their health and
each evening talked of the matter, he thought, more than his mother had talked during her illness.
While Sam lived with them they were all under the influence of a strange sort of faith healer
and took what they called "Health Suggestion" treatments. Twice each week the faith healer
came to the house, laid his hands upon their backs and took their money. The treatment afforded
Jake a never-ending source of amusement and in the evening he went through the house putting
his hands upon the backs of the women and demanding money from them, but the dry-goods buyer's
wife, who for years had coughed at night, slept peacefully after some weeks of the treatment
and the cough did not return while Sam remained in the house.

In the house Sam had a standing. Glowing tales of his shrewdness in business, his untiring
industry, and the size of his bank account, had preceded him from Caxton, and these tales the
Pergrins, in their loyalty to the town and to all the products of the town, did not allow to
shrink in the re-telling. The housekeeping sister, a kindly woman, became fond of Sam, and
in his absence would boast of him to chance callers or to the boarders gathered in the living
room in the evening. She it was who laid the foundation of the medical student's belief that
Sam was a kind of genius in money matters, a belief that enabled him later to make a successful
assault upon a legacy which came to that young man.

Frank Eckardt, the medical student, Sam took as a friend. On Sunday afternoons they went to
walk in the streets, or, taking two girl friends of Frank's, who were also students at the
medical school, on their arms, they went to the park and sat upon benches under the trees.

For one of these young women Sam conceived a regard that approached tenderness. Sunday after
Sunday he spent with her, and once, walking through the park on an evening in the late fall,
the dry brown leaves rustling under their feet and the sun going down in red splendour before
their eyes, he took her hand and walked in silence, feeling tremendously alive and vital as
he had felt on that other night walking under the trees of Caxton with the dark-skinned daughter
of banker Walker.

That nothing came of the affair and that after a time he did not see the girl again was due,
he thought, to his own growing interest in money making and to the fact that there was in her,
as in Frank Eckardt, a blind devotion to something that he could not himself understand.

Once he had a talk with Eckardt of the matter. "She is fine and purposeful like a woman I knew
in my home town," he said, thinking of Eleanor Telfer, "but she will not talk to me of her
work as sometimes she talks to you. I want her to talk. There is something about her that I
do not understand and that I want to understand. I think that she likes me and once or twice
I have thought she would not greatly mind my making love to her, but I do not understand her
just the same."

One day in the office of the company for which he worked Sam became acquainted with a young
advertising man named Jack Prince, a brisk, very much alive young fellow who made money rapidly,
spent it lavishly, and had friends and acquaintances in every office, every hotel lobby, every
bar room and restaurant in the down-town section of the city. The chance acquaintance rapidly
grew into friendship. The clever, witty Prince made a kind of hero of Sam, admiring his reserve
and good sense and boasting of him far and wide through the town. With Prince, Sam occasionally
went on mild carouses, and, once, in the midst of thousands of people sitting about tables
and drinking beer at the Coliseum on Wabash Avenue, he and Prince got into a fight with two
waiters, Prince declaring he had been cheated and Sam, although he thought his friend in the
wrong, striking out with his fist and dragging Prince through the door and into a passing street
car in time to avoid a rush of other waiters hurrying to the aid of the one who lay dazed and
sputtering on the sawdust floor.

After these evenings of carousal, carried on with Jack Prince and with young men met on trains
and about country hotels, Sam spent hour after hour walking about town absorbed in his own
thoughts and getting his own impressions of what he saw. In the affairs with the young men
he played, for the most part, a passive role, going with them from place to place and drinking
until they became loud and boisterous, or morose and quarrelsome, and then slipping away to
his own room, amused or irritated as the circumstances, or the temperament of his companions,
had made or marred the joviality of the evening. On his nights alone, he put his hands into
his pockets and walked for endless miles through the lighted streets, getting in a dim way
a realisation of the hugeness of life. All of the faces going past him, the women in their
furs, the young men with cigars in their mouths going to the theatres, the bald old men with
watery eyes, the boys with bundles of newspapers under their arms, and the slim prostitutes
lurking in the hallways, should have interested him deeply. In his youth, and with the pride
of sleeping power in him, he saw them only as so many individuals that might some day test
their ability against his own. And if he peered at them closely and marked down face after
face in the crowds it was as a sitter in the great game of business that he looked, exercising
his mind by imagining this or that one arrayed against him in deals, and planning the method
by which he would win in the imaginary struggle.

There was at that time in Chicago a place, to be reached by a bridge above the Illinois Central
Railroad track, that Sam sometimes visited on stormy nights to watch the lake lashed by the
wind. Great masses of water moving swiftly and silently broke with a roar against wooden piles,
backed by hills of stone and earth, and the spray from the broken waves fell upon Sam's face
and on winter nights froze on his coat. He had learned to smoke, and leaning upon the railing
of the bridge would stand for hours with a pipe in his mouth looking at the moving water, filled
with awe and admiration of the silent power of it.

One night in September, when he was walking alone in the streets, an incident happened that
showed him also a silent power within himself, a power that startled and for the moment frightened
him. Walking into a little street back of Dearborn, he was suddenly aware of the faces of women
looking out at him through small square windows cut in the fronts of the houses. Here and there,
before and behind him, were the faces; voices called, smiles invited, hands beckoned. Up and
down the street went men looking at the sidewalk, their coats turned up about their necks,
their hats pulled down over their eyes. They looked at the faces of the women pressed against
the little squares of glass and then, turning, suddenly, sprang in at the doors of the houses
as if pursued. Among the walkers on the sidewalk were old men, men in shabby coats whose feet
scuffled as they hurried along, and young boys with the pink of virtue in their cheeks. In
the air was lust, heavy and hideous. It got into Sam's brain and he stood hesitating and uncertain,
startled, nerveless, afraid. He remembered a story he had once heard from John Telfer, a story
of the disease and death that lurks in the little side streets of cities, and ran into Van
Buren Street and from that into lighted State. He climbed up the stairway of the elevated railroad
and jumping on the first train went away south to walk for hours on a gravel roadway at the
edge of the lake in Jackson Park. The wind from the lake and the laughter and talk of people
passing under the lights cooled the fever in him, as once it had been cooled by the eloquence
of John Telfer, walking on the road near Caxton, and with his voice marshalling the armies
of the standing corn.

Into Sam's mind came a picture of the cold, silent water moving in great masses under the night
sky and he thought that in the world of men there was a force as resistless, as little understood,
as little talked of, moving always forward, silent, powerful--the force of sex. He wondered
how the force would be broken in his own case, against what breakwater it would spend itself.
At midnight, he went home across the city and crept into his alcove in the Pergrin house, puzzled
and for the time utterly tired. In his bed, he turned his face to the wall and resolutely closing
his eyes tried to sleep. "There are things not to be understood," he told himself. "To live
decently is a matter of good sense. I will keep thinking of what I want to do and not go into
such a place again."

One day, when he had been in Chicago two years, there happened an incident of another sort,
an incident so grotesque, so Pan-like, so full of youth, that for days after it happened he
thought of it with delight, and walked in the streets or sat in a passenger train laughing
joyfully at the remembrance of some new detail of the affair.

Sam, who was the son of Windy McPherson and who had more than once ruthlessly condemned all
men who put liquor into their mouths, got drunk, and for eighteen hours went shouting poetry,
singing songs, and yelling at the stars like a wood god on the bend.

Late on an afternoon in the early spring he sat with Jack Prince in DeJonge's restaurant in
Monroe Street. Prince, his watch lying before him on the table and the thin stem of a wine
glass between his fingers, talked to Sam of the man for whom they had been waiting a half hour.

"He will be late, of course," he exclaimed, refilling Sam's glass. "The man was never on time
in his life. To keep an appointment promptly would take something from him. It would be like
the bloom of youth gone from the cheeks of a maiden."

Sam had already seen the man for whom they waited. He was thirty-five, small and narrow-shouldered,
with a little wrinkled face, a huge nose, and a pair of eyeglasses that hooked over his ears.
Sam had seen him in a Michigan Avenue club with Prince solemnly pitching silver dollars at
a chalk mark on the floor with a group of serious, solid-looking old men.

"They are the crowd that have just put through the big deal in Kansas oil stock and the little
one is Morris, who handled the publicity for them," Prince had explained.

Later, when they were walking down Michigan Avenue, Prince talked at length of Morris, whom
he admired immensely. "He is the best advertising and publicity man in America," he declared.
"He isn't a four-flusher, as I am, and does not make as much money, but he can take another
man's ideas and express them so simply and forcibly that they tell the man's story better than
he knew it himself. And that's all there is to advertising."

He began laughing.

"It is funny to think of it. Tom Morris will do a job of work and the man for whom he does
it will swear that he did it himself, that every pat phrase on the printed page Tom has turned
out, is one of his own. He will howl like a beast at paying Tom's bill, and then the next time
he will try to do the job himself and make a hopeless muddle of it so that he has to send for
Tom only to see the trick done over again like shelling corn off the cob. The best men in Chicago
send for him."

Into the restaurant came Tom Morris bearing under his arm a huge pasteboard portfolio. He seemed
hurried and nervous. "I am on my way to the office of the International Biscuit Turning Machine
Company," he explained to Prince. "I can't stop at all. I have here the layout of a circular
designed to push on to the market some more of that common stock of theirs that hasn't paid
a dividend for ten years."

Thrusting out his hand, Prince dragged Morris into a chair. "Never mind the Biscuit Machine
people and their stock," he commanded; "they will always have common stock to sell. It is inexhaustible.
I want you to meet McPherson here who will some day have something big for you to help him with."

Morris reached across the table and took Sam's hand; his own was small and soft like that of
a woman. "I am worked to death," he complained; "I have my eye on a chicken farm in Indiana.
I am going down there to live."

For an hour the three men sat in the restaurant while Prince talked of a place in Wisconsin
where the fish should be biting. "A man has told me of the place twenty times," he declared;
"I am sure I could find it on a railroad folder. I have never been fishing nor have you, and
Sam here comes from a place to which they carry water in wagons over the plains."

The little man who had been drinking copiously of the wine looked from Prince to Sam. From
time to time he took off his glasses and wiped them with a handkerchief. "I don't understand
your being in such society," he announced; "you have the solid, substantial look of a bucket-shop
man. Prince here will get nowhere. He is honest, sells wind and his charming society, and spends
the money that he gets, instead of marrying and putting it in his wife's name."

Prince arose. "It is useless to waste time in persiflage," he began and then turning to Sam,
"There is a place in Wisconsin," he said uncertainly.

Morris picked up the portfolio and with a grotesque effort at steadiness started for the door
followed by Prince and Sam walking with wavering steps. In the street Prince took the portfolio
out of the little man's hand. "Let your mother carry it, Tommy," he said, shaking his finger
under Morris's nose. He began singing a lullaby. "When the bough bends the cradle will fall."

The three men walked out of Monroe and into State Street, Sam's head feeling strangely light.
The buildings along the street reeled against the sky. A sudden fierce longing for wild adventure
seized him. On a corner Morris stopped, took the handkerchief from his pocket and again wiped
his glasses. "I want to be sure that I see clearly," he said; "it seems to me that in the bottom
of that last glass of wine I saw three of us in a cab with a basket of life oil on the seat
between us going to the station to catch the train for that place Jack's friend told fish lies
about."

The next eighteen hours opened up a new world to Sam. With the fumes of liquor rising in his
brain, he rode for two hours on a train, tramped in the darkness along dusty roads and, building
a bonfire in a woods, danced in the light of it upon the grass, holding the hands of Prince
and the little man with the wrinkled face. Solemnly he stood upon a stump at the edge of a
wheatfield and recited Poe's "Helen," taking on the voice, the gestures and even the habit
of spreading his legs apart, of John Telfer. And then overdoing the last, he sat down suddenly
on the stump, and Morris, coming forward with a bottle in his hand said, "Fill the lamp, man--the
light of reason has gone out."

From the bonfire in the woods and Sam's recital from the stump, the three friends emerged again
upon the road, and a belated farmer driving home half asleep on the seat of his wagon caught
their attention. With the skill of an Indian boy the diminutive Morris sprang upon the wagon
and thrust a ten dollar bill into the farmer's hand. "Lead us, O man of the soil!" he shouted,
"Lead us to a gilded palace of sin! Take us to a saloon! The life oil gets low in the can!"

Beyond the long, jolting ride in the wagon Sam never became quite clear. In his mind ran vague
notions of a wild carousal in a country tavern, of himself acting as bartender, and a huge
red-faced woman rushing here and there under the direction of a tiny man, dragging reluctant
rustics to the bar and commanding them to keep on drinking the beer that Sam drew until the
last of the ten dollars given to the man of the wagon should have gone into her cash drawer.
Also, he thought that Jack Prince had put a chair upon the bar and that he sat on it explaining
to the hurrying drawer of beer that although the Egyptian kings had built great pyramids to
celebrate themselves they never built anything more gigantic than the jag Tom Morris was building
among the farm hands in the room.

Later Sam thought that he and Jack Prince tried to sleep under a pile of grain sacks in a shed
and that Morris came to them weeping because every one in the world was asleep and most of
them lying under tables.

And then, his head clearing, Sam found himself with the two others walking again upon the dusty
road in the dawn and singing songs.

On the train, with the help of a Negro porter, the three men tried to efface the dust and the
stains of the wild night. The pasteboard portfolio containing the circular for the Biscuit
Machine Company was still under Jack Prince's arm and the little man, wiping and re-wiping
his glasses, peered at Sam.

"Did you come with us or are you a child we have adopted here in these parts?" he asked.

CHAPTER II

It was a wonderful place, that South Water Street in Chicago where Sam came to make his business
start in the city, and it was proof of the dry unresponsiveness in him that he did not sense
more fully its meaning and its message. All day the food stuff of a vast city flowed through
the narrow streets. Blue-shirted, broad-shouldered teamsters from the tops of high piled wagons
bawled at scurrying pedestrians. On the sidewalks in boxes, bags, and barrels, lay oranges
from Florida and California, figs from Arabia, bananas from Jamaica, nuts from the hills of
Spain and the plains of Africa, cabbages from Ohio, beans from Michigan, corn and potatoes
from Iowa. In December, fur-coated men hurried through the forests of northern Michigan gathering
Christmas trees that found their way to warm firesides through the street. And summer and winter
a million hens laid the eggs that were gathered there, and the cattle on a thousand hills sent
their yellow butter fat packed in tubs and piled upon trucks to add to the confusion.

Into this street Sam walked, thinking little of the wonder of these things and thinking haltingly,
getting his sense of the bigness of it in dollars and cents. Standing in the doorway of the
commission house for which he was to work, strong, well clad, able and efficient, he looked
through the streets, seeing and hearing the hurry and the roar and the shouting of voices,
and then with a smile upon his lips went inside. In his brain was an unexpressed thought. As
the old Norse marauders looked at the cities sitting in their splendour on the Mediterranean
so looked he. "What loot!" a voice within him said, and his brain began devising methods by
which he should get his share of it.

Years later, when Sam was a man of big affairs, he drove one day in a carriage through the
streets and turning to his companion, a grey-haired, dignified Boston man who sat beside him,
said, "I worked here once and used to sit on a barrel of apples at the edge of the sidewalk
thinking how clever I was to make more money in one month than the man who raised the apples
made in a year."

The Boston man, stirred by the sight of so much foodstuff and moved to epigram by his mood,
looked up and down the street.

"The foodstuff of an empire rattling o'er the stones," he said.

"I should have made more money here," answered Sam dryly.

The commission firm for which Sam worked was a partnership, not a corporation, and was owned
by two brothers. Of the two Sam thought that the elder, a tall, bald, narrow-shouldered man,
with a long narrow face and a suave manner, was the real master, and represented most of the
ability in the partnership. He was oily, silent, tireless. All day he went in and out of the
office and warehouses and up and down the crowded street, sucking nervously at an unlighted
cigar. He was a great worker in a suburban church, but a shrewd and, Sam suspected, an unscrupulous
business man. Occasionally the minister or some of the women of the suburban church came into
the office to talk with him, and Sam was amused at the thought that Narrow Face, when he talked
of the affairs of the church, bore a striking resemblance to the brown-bearded minister of
the church in Caxton.

The other brother was a far different sort, and, in business, Sam thought, a much inferior
man. He was a heavy, broad-shouldered, square-faced man of about thirty, who sat in the office
dictating letters and who stayed out two or three hours to lunch. He sent out letters signed
by him on the firm's stationery with the title of General Manager, and Narrow Face let him
do it. Broad Shoulders had been educated in New England and even after several years away from
his college seemed more interested in it than in the welfare of the business. For a month or
more in the spring he took most of the time of one of the two stenographers employed by the
firm writing letters to graduates of Chicago high schools to induce them to go East to finish
their education; and when a graduate of the college came to Chicago seeking employment, he
closed his desk and spent entire days going from place to place, introducing, urging, recommending.
Sam noticed, however, that when the firm employed a new man in their own office or on the road
it was Narrow-Face who chose the man.

Broad-shoulders had been a famous football player in his day and wore an iron brace on his
leg. The offices, like most of the offices on the street, were dark and narrow, and smelled
of decaying vegetables and rancid butter. Noisy Greek and Italian hucksters wrangled on the
sidewalk in front, and among these went Narrow-Face hurrying about making deals.

In South Water Street Sam did well, multiplying his thirty-six hundred dollars by ten during
the three years that he stayed there, or went out from there to towns and cities directing
a part of the great flowing river of foodstuff through his firm's front door.

With almost his first day on the street he began seeing on all sides of him opportunity for
gain, and set himself industriously at work to get his hand upon money with which to take advantage
of the chances that he thought lay so invitingly about. Within a year he had made much progress.
From a woman on Wabash Avenue he got six thousand dollars, and he planned and executed a coup
that gave him the use of twenty thousand dollars that had come as a legacy to his friend, the
medical student, who lived at the Pergrin house.

Sam had eggs and apples lying in warehouse against a rise; game, smuggled across the state
line from Michigan and Wisconsin, lay frozen in cold storage tagged with his name and ready
to be sold at a long profit to hotels and fashionable restaurants; and there were even secret
bushels of corn and wheat lying in other warehouses along the Chicago River ready to be thrown
on the market at a word from him, or, the margins by which he kept his hold on the stuff not
being forthcoming, at a word from a LaSalle Street broker.

Getting the twenty thousand dollars out of the hands of the medical student was a turning point
in Sam's life. Sunday after Sunday he walked with Eckardt in the streets or loitered with him
in the parks thinking of the money lying idle in the bank and of the deals he might be turning
with it in the street or on the road. Daily he saw more clearly the power of cash. Other commission
merchants along South Water Street came running into the office of his firm with tense, anxious
faces asking Narrow-Face to help them over rough spots in the day's trading. Broad-Shoulders,
who had no business ability but who had married a rich woman, went on month after month taking
half the profits brought in by the ability of his tall, shrewd brother, and Narrow-Face, who
had taken a liking for Sam and who occasionally stopped for a word with him, spoke of the matter
often and eloquently.

"Spend your time with no one who hasn't money to help you," he said; "on the road look for
the men with money and then try to get it. That's all there is to business--money-getting."
And then looking across to the desk of his brother he would add, "I would kick half the men
in business out of it if I could, but I myself must dance to the tune that money plays."

One day Sam went to the office of an attorney named Webster, whose reputation for the shrewd
drawing of contracts had come to him from Narrow-Face.

"I want a contract drawn that will give me absolute control of twenty thousand dollars with
no risk on my part if I lose the money and no promise to pay more than seven per cent if I
do not lose," he said.

The attorney, a slender, middle-aged man with a swarthy skin and black hair, put his hands
on the desk before him and looked at the tall young man.

"What collateral?" he asked.

Sam shook his head. "Can you draw such a contract that will be legal and what will it cost
me?" he asked.

The lawyer laughed good naturedly. "I can draw it of course. Why not?"

Sam, taking a roll of bills from his pocket, counted the amount upon the table.

"Who are you anyway?" asked Webster. "If you can get twenty thousand and without collateral
you're worth knowing. I might be getting up a gang to rob a mail train."

Sam did not answer. He put the contract in his pocket and went home to his alcove at the Pergrins.
He wanted to get by himself and think. He did not believe that he would by any chance lose
Frank Eckardt's money, but he knew that Eckardt himself would draw back from the kind of deals
that he expected to make with the money, that they would frighten and alarm him, and he wondered
if he was being honest.

In his own room after dinner Sam studied carefully the agreement drawn by Webster. It seemed
to him to cover what he wanted covered, and having got it well fixed in his mind he tore it
up. "There is no use his knowing I have been to a lawyer," he thought guiltily.

Getting into bed, he began building plans for the future. With more than thirty thousand dollars
at his command he thought that he should be able to make headway rapidly. "In my hands it will
double itself every year," he told himself and getting out of bed he drew a chair to the window
and sat down, feeling strangely alive and awake like a young man in love. He saw himself going
on and on, directing, managing, ruling men. It seemed to him that there was nothing he could
not do. "I will run factories and banks and maybe mines and railroads," he thought and his
mind leaped forward so that he saw himself, grey, stern, and capable, sitting at a broad desk
high in a great stone building, a materialisation of John Telfer's word picture--"You will
be a big man of dollars--it is plain."

And then into Sam's mind came another picture. He remembered a Saturday afternoon when a young
man had come running into the office on South Water Street, a young man who owed Narrow-Face
a sum of money and could not pay it. He remembered the unpleasant tightening of the mouth and
the sudden shrewd hard look in his employer's long narrow face. He had not heard much of the
talk, but he was aware of a strained pleading quality in the voice of the young man who had
said over and over slowly and painfully, "But, man, my honour is at stake," and of a coldness
in the answering voice replying persistently, "With me it is not a matter of honour but of
dollars, and I am going to get them."

From the alcove window Sam looked out upon a vacant lot covered with patches of melting snow.
Beyond the lot facing him stood a flat building, and the snow, melting on the roof, made a
little stream that ran down some hidden pipe and rattled out upon the ground. The noise of
the falling water and the sound of distant footsteps going homeward through the sleeping city
brought back thoughts of other nights when as a boy in Caxton he had sat thus, thinking disconnected
thoughts.

Without knowing it Sam was fighting one of the real battles of his life, a battle in which
the odds were very much against the quality in him that got him out of bed to look at the snow-clad
vacant lot.

There was in the youth much of the brute trader, blindly intent upon gain; much of the quality
that has given America so many of its so-called great men. It was the quality that had sent
him in secret to Lawyer Webster to protect himself without protecting the simple credulous
young medical student, and that had made him say as he came home with the contract in his pocket,
"I will do what I can," when in truth he meant, "I will get what I can."

There may be business men in America who do not get what they can, who simply love power. One
sees men here and there in banks, at the heads of great industrial trusts, in factories and
in great mercantile houses of whom one would like to think thus. They are the men who one dreams
have had an awakening, who have found themselves; they are the men hopeful thinkers try to
recall again and again to the mind.

To these men America is looking. It is asking them to keep the faith, to stand themselves up
against the force of the brute trader, the dollar man, the man who with his one cunning wolf
quality of acquisitiveness has too long ruled the business of the nation.

I have said that the sense of equity in Sam fought an unequal battle. He was in business, and
young in business, in a day when all America was seized with a blind grappling for gain. The
nation was drunk with it, trusts were being formed, mines opened; from the ground spurted oil
and gas; railroads creeping westward opened yearly vast empires of new land. To be poor was
to be a fool; thought waited, art waited; and men at their firesides gathered their children
around them and talked glowingly of men of dollars, holding them up as prophets fit to lead
the youth of the young nation.

Sam had in him the making of the new, the commanding man of business. It was that quality in
him that made him sit by the window thinking before going to the medical student with the unfair
contract, and the same quality had sent him forth night after night to walk alone in the streets
when other young men went to theatres or to walk with girls in the park. He had, in truth,
a taste for the lonely hours when thought grows. He was a step beyond the youth who hurries
to the theatre or buries himself in stories of love or adventure. He had in him something that
wanted a chance.

In the flat building across the vacant lot a light appeared at a window and through the lighted
window he saw a man clad in pajamas who propped a sheet of music against a dressing-table and
who had a shining silver horn in his hand. Sam watched, filled with mild curiosity. The man,
not reckoning on an onlooker at so late an hour, began an elaborate and amusing schedule of
personation. He opened the window, put the horn to his lips and then turning bowed before the
lighted room as before an audience. He put his hand to his lips and blew kisses about, then
put the horn to his lips and looked again at the sheet of music.

The note that came out of the window on the still air was a failure, it flattened into a squawk.
Sam laughed and pulled down the window. The incident had brought back to his mind another man
who bowed to a crowd and blew upon a horn. Getting into bed he pulled the covers about him
and went to sleep. "I will get Frank's money if I can," he told himself, settling the matter
that had been in his mind. "Most men are fools and if I do not get his money some other man will."

On the next afternoon Eckardt had lunch down town with Sam. Together they went to a bank where
Sam showed the profits of deals he had made and the growth of his bank account, going afterward
into South Water Street where Sam talked glowingly of the money to be made by a shrewd man
who knew the ways of the street and had a head upon his shoulders.

"That's just it," said Frank Eckardt, falling quickly into the trap Sam had set, and hungering
for profits; "I have money but no head on my shoulders for using it. I wish you would take
it and see what you can do."

With a thumping heart Sam went home across the city to the Pergrin house, Eckardt beside him
in the elevated train. In Sam's room the agreement was written out by Sam and signed by Eckardt.
At dinner time they had the drygoods buyer in to sign as witness.

And the agreement turned out to Eckardt's advantage. In no year did Sam return him less than
ten per cent, and in the end gave back the principal more than doubled so that Eckardt was
able to retire from the practice of medicine and live upon the interest of his capital in a
village near Tiffin, Ohio.

With the thirty thousand dollars in his hands Sam began to reach out and extend the scope of
his ventures. He bought and sold constantly, not only eggs, butter, apples, and grain, but
also houses and building lots. Through his head marched long rows of figures. Deals worked
themselves out in detail in his brain as he went about town drinking with young men, or sat
at dinner in the Pergrin house. He even began working over in his head various schemes for
getting into the firm by which he was employed, and thought that he might work upon Broad-Shoulders,
getting hold of his interest and forcing himself into control. And then, the fear of Narrow-
Face holding him back and his growing success in deals keeping his mind occupied, he was suddenly
confronted by an opportunity that changed entirely the plans he was making for himself.

Through Jack Prince's suggestion Colonel Tom Rainey of the great Rainey Arms Company sent for
him and offered him a position as buyer of all the materials used in their factories.

It was the kind of connection Sam had unconsciously been seeking--a company, strong, old, conservative,
known throughout the world. There was, in the talk with Colonel Tom, a hint of future opportunities
to get stock in the company and perhaps to become eventually an official--these things were
of course remote--to be dreamed of and worked toward--the company made it a part of its policy.

Sam said nothing, but already he had decided to accept the place, and was thinking of a profitable
arrangement touching percentages on the amount saved in buying that had worked out so well
for him during his years with Freedom Smith.

Sam's work for the firearms company took him off the road and confined him to an office all
day long. In a way he regretted this. The complaints he had heard among travelling men in country
hotels with regard to the hardship of travel meant nothing to his mind. Any kind of travel
was a keen pleasure to him. Against the hardships and discomforts he balanced the tremendous
advantages of seeing new places and faces and getting a look into many lives, and he looked
back with a kind of retrospective joy on the three years of hurrying from place to place, catching
trains, and talking with chance acquaintances met by the way. Also, the years on the road had
given him many opportunities for secret and profitable deals of his own.

Over against these advantages the place at Rainey's threw him into close and continuous association
with men of big affairs. The offices of the Arms Company occupied an entire floor of one of
Chicago's newest and biggest skyscrapers and millionaire stockholders and men high in the service
of the state and of the government at Washington came in and went out at the door. Sam looked
at them closely. He wanted to have a tilt with them and try if his Caxton and South Water Street
shrewdness would keep the head upon his shoulders in LaSalle Street. The opportunity seemed
to him a big one and he went about his work quietly and ably, intent upon making the most of it.

The Rainey Arms Company, at the time of Sam's coming with it, was still largely owned by the
Rainey family, father and daughter. Colonel Rainey, a grey-whiskered military looking man with
a paunch, was the president and largest individual stockholder. He was a pompous, swaggering
old fellow with a habit of making the most trivial statement with the air of a judge pronouncing
the death sentence, and sat dutifully at his desk day after day looking very important and
thoughtful, smoking long black cigars and signing personally piles of letters brought him by
the heads of various departments. He looked upon himself as a silent but very important spoke
in the government at Washington and every day issued many orders which the men at the heads
of departments received with respect and disregarded in secret. Twice he had been prominently
mentioned in connection with cabinet positions in the national government, and in talks with
his cronies at clubs and restaurants he gave the impression of having actually refused an offer
of appointment on both occasions.

Having got himself established as a factor in the management of the business, Sam found many
things that surprised him. In every company of which he knew there was some one man to whom
all looked for guidance, who at critical moments became dominant, saying "Do this, or that,"
and making no explanations. In the Rainey Company he found no such man, but, instead, a dozen
strong departments, each with its own head and each more or less independent of the others.

Sam lay in his bed at night and went about in the evening thinking of this and of its meaning.
Among the department heads there was a great deal of loyalty and devotion to Colonel Tom, and
he thought that among them were a few men who were devoted to other interests than their own.

At the same time he told himself there was something wrong. He himself had no such feeling
of loyalty and although he was willing to give lip service to the resounding talk of the colonel
about the fine old traditions of the company, he could not bring himself to a belief in the
idea of conducting a vast business on a system founded upon lip service to traditions, or upon
loyalty to an individual.

"There must be loose ends lying about everywhere," he thought and followed the thought with
another. "A man will come along, pick up these loose ends, and run the whole shop. Why not I?"

The Rainey Arms Company had made its millions for the Rainey and Whittaker families during
the Civil War. Whittaker had been an inventor, making one of the first practical breech-loading
guns, and the original Rainey had been a dry-goods merchant in an Illinois town who backed
the inventor.

It proved itself a rare combination. Whittaker developed into a wonderful shop manager for
his day, and, from the first, stayed at home building rifles and making improvements, enlarging
the plant, getting out the goods. The drygoods merchant scurried about the country, going to
Washington and to the capitals of the individual states, pulling wires, appealing to patriotism
and state pride, taking big orders at fat prices.

In Chicago there is a tradition that more than once he went south of the Dixie line and that
following these trips thousands of Rainey-Whittaker rifles found their way into the hands of
Confederate soldiers, but this story which increased Sam's respect for the energetic little
drygoods merchant, Colonel Tom, his son, indignantly denied. In reality Colonel Tom would have
liked to think of the first Rainey as a huge, Jove-like god of arms. Like Windy McPherson of
Caxton, given a chance, he would have invented a new ancestor.

After the Civil War, and Colonel Tom's growing to manhood, the Rainey and Whittaker fortunes
were merged into one through the marriage of Jane Whittaker, the last of her line, to the only
surviving Rainey, and upon her death her fortune, grown to more than a million, stood in the
name of Sue Rainey, twenty-six, the only issue of the marriage.

From the first day, Sam began to forge ahead in the Rainey Company. In the buying end he found
a rich field for spectacular money saving and money making and made the most of it. The position
as buyer had for ten years been occupied by a distant cousin to Colonel Tom, now dead. Whether
the cousin was a fool or a knave Sam could never quite decide and did not greatly care, but
after he had got the situation in hand he felt that the man must have cost the company a tremendous
sum, which he intended to save.

Sam's arrangement with the company gave him, besides a fair salary, half he saved in the fixed
prices of standard materials. These prices had stood fixed for years and Sam went into them,
cutting right and left, and making for himself during his first year twenty-three thousand
dollars. At the end of the year, when the directors asked to have an adjustment made and the
percentage contract annulled, he got a generous slice of company stock, the respect of Colonel
Tom Rainey and the directors, the fear of some of the department heads, the loyal devotion
of others, and the title of Treasurer of the company.

The Rainey Arms Company was in truth living largely upon the reputation built up for it by
the first pushing energetic Rainey, and the inventive genius of his partner, Whittaker. Under
Colonel Tom it had found new conditions and new competition which he had ignored, or met in
a half- hearted way, standing on its reputation, its financial strength, and on the glory of
its past achievements. Dry rot ate at its heart. The damage done was not great, but was growing
greater. The heads of the departments, in whose hands so much of the running of the business
lay, were many of them incompetent men with nothing to commend them but long years of service.
And in the treasurer's office sat a quiet young man, barely turned twenty, who had no friends,
wanted his own way, and who shook his head over the office traditions and was proud of his
unbelief.

Seeing the absolute necessity of working through Colonel Tom, and having a head filled with
ideas of things he wanted done, Sam began working to get suggestions into the older man's mind.
Within a month after his elevation the two men were lunching together daily and Sam was spending
many extra hours behind closed doors in Colonel Tom's office.

Although American business and manufacturing had not yet achieved the modern idea of efficiency
in shop and office management, Sam had many of these ideas in his mind and expounded them tirelessly
to Colonel Tom. He hated waste; he cared nothing for company tradition; he had no idea, as
did the heads of other departments, of getting into a comfortable berth and spending the rest
of his days there, and he was bent on managing the great Rainey Company, if not directly, then
through Colonel Tom, who, he felt, was putty in his hands.

From his new position as treasurer Sam did not drop his work as buyer, but, after a talk with
Colonel Tom, merged the two departments, put in capable assistants of his own, and went on
with his work of effacing the tracks of the cousin. For years the company had been overpaying
for inferior material. Sam put his own material inspectors into the west side factories and
brought several big Pennsylvania steel companies scurrying to Chicago to make restitution.
The restitution was stiff, but when Colonel Tom was appealed to, Sam went to lunch with him,
bought a bottle of wine, and stiffened his back.

One afternoon in a room in the Palmer House a scene was played out that for days stayed in
Sam's mind as a kind of realisation of the part he wanted to play in the business world. The
president of a lumber company took Sam into the room, and, laying five one thousand dollar
bills upon a table, walked to the window and stood looking out.

For a moment Sam stood looking at the money on the table and at the back of the man by the
window, burning with indignation. He felt that he should like to take hold of the man's throat
and press as he had once pressed on the throat of Windy McPherson. And then a cold gleam coming
into his eyes he cleared his throat and said, "You are short here; you will have to build this
pile higher if you expect to interest me."

The man by the window shrugged his shoulders--he was a slender, young- looking man in a fancy
waistcoat--and then turning and taking a roll of bills from his pocket he walked to the table,
facing Sam.

"I shall expect you to be reasonable," he said, as he laid the bills on the table.

When the pile had reached twenty thousand, Sam reached out his hand and taking it up put it
in his pocket. "You will get a receipt for this when I get back to the office," he said; "it
is about what you owe our company for overcharges and crooked material. As for our business,
I made a contract with another company this morning."

Having got the buying end of the Rainey Arms Company straightened out to his liking, Sam began
spending much time in the shops and, through Colonel Tom, forced big changes everywhere. He
discharged useless foremen, knocked out partitions between rooms, pushed everywhere for more
and better work. Like the modern efficiency man, he went about with a watch in his hand, cutting
out lost motion, rearranging, getting his own way.

It was a time of great agitation. The offices and shops buzzed like bees disturbed and black
looks followed him about. But Colonel Tom rose to the situation and went about at Sam's heels,
swaggering, giving orders, throwing back his shoulders like a man remade. All day long he was
at it, discharging, directing, roaring against waste. When a strike broke out in one of the
shops because of innovations Sam had forced upon the workmen there, he got upon a bench and
delivered a speech--written by Sam--on a man's place in the organisation and conducting of
a great modern industry and his duty to perfect himself as a workman.

Silently, the men picked up their tools and started again for their benches and when he saw
them thus affected by his words Colonel Tom brought what threatened to be a squally affair
to a hurrahing climax by the announcement of a five per cent increase in the wage scale--that
was Colonel Tom's own touch and the rousing reception of it brought a glow of pride to his cheeks.

Although the affairs of the company were still being handled by Colonel Tom, and though he
daily more and more asserted himself, the officers and shops, and later the big jobbers and
buyers as well as the rich LaSalle Street directors, knew that a new force had come into the
company. Men began dropping quietly into Sam's office, asking questions, suggesting, seeking
favours. He felt that he was getting hold. Of the department heads, about half fought him and
were secretly marked for slaughter; the others came to him, expressed approval of what was
going on and asked him to look over their departments and to make suggestions for improvements
through them. This Sam did eagerly, getting by it their loyalty and support which later stood
him in good stead.

In choosing the new men that came into the company Sam also took a hand. The method used was
characteristic of his relations with Colonel Tom. If a man applying for a place suited him,
he got admission to the colonel's office and listened for half an hour to a talk anent the
fine old traditions of the company. If a man did not suit Sam, he did not get to the colonel.
"You can't have your time taken up by them," Sam explained.

In the Rainey Company, the various heads of departments were stockholders in the company, and
selected from among themselves two men to sit upon the board, and in his second year Sam was
chosen as one of these employee directors. During the same year five heads of departments resigning
in a moment of indignation over one of Sam's innovations--to be replaced later by two--their
stock by a prearranged agreement came back into the company's hands. This stock and another
block, secured for him by the colonel, got into Sam's hands through the use of Eckardt's money,
that of the Wabash Avenue woman, and his own snug pile.

Sam was a growing force in the company. He sat on the board of directors, the recognised practical
head of the business among its stockholders and employees; he had stopped the company's march
toward a second place in its industry and had faced it about. All about him, in offices and
shops, there was the swing and go of new life and he felt that he was in a position to move
on toward real control and had begun laying lines with that end in view. Standing in the offices
in LaSalle Street or amid the clang and roar of the shops he tilted up his chin with the same
odd little gesture that had attracted the men of Caxton to him when he was a barefoot newsboy
and the son of the town drunkard. Through his head went big ambitious projects. "I have in
my hand a great tool," he thought; "with it I will pry my way into the place I mean to occupy
among the big men of this city and this nation."

CHAPTER III

Sam McPherson, who stood in the shops among the thousands of employees of the Rainey Arms Company,
who looked with unseeing eyes at the faces of the men intent upon the operation of machines
and saw in them but so many aids to the ambitious projects stirring in his brain, who, while
yet a boy, had because of the quality of daring in him, combined with a gift of acquisitiveness,
become a master, who was untrained, uneducated, knowing nothing of the history of industry
or of social effort, walked out of the offices of his company and along through the crowded
streets to the new apartment he had taken on Michigan Avenue. It was Saturday evening at the
end of a busy week and as he walked he thought of things he had accomplished during the week
and made plans for the one to come. Through Madison Street he went and into State, seeing the
crowds of men and women, boys and girls, clambering aboard the cable cars, massed upon the
pavements, forming in groups, the groups breaking and reforming, and the whole making a picture
intense, confusing, awe-inspiring. As in the shops among the men workers, so here, also, walked
the youth with unseeing eyes. He liked it all; the mass of people; the clerks in their cheap
clothing; the old men with young girls on their arms going to dine in restaurants; the young
man with a wistful look in his eyes waiting for his sweetheart in the shadow of the towering
office building. The eager, straining rush of the whole, seemed no more to him than a kind
of gigantic setting for action; action controlled by a few quiet, capable men--of whom he intended
to be one--intent upon growth.

In State Street he stopped at a shop and buying a bunch of roses came out again upon the crowded
street. In the crowd before him walked a woman-- tall, freewalking, with a great mass of reddish-brown
hair on her head. As she passed through the crowd men stopped and looked back at her, their
eyes ablaze with admiration. Seeing her, Sam sprang forward with a cry.

"Edith!" he called, and running forward thrust the roses into her hand. "For Janet," he said,
and lifting his hat walked beside her along State to Van Buren Street.

Leaving the woman at a corner Sam came into a region of cheap theatres and dingy hotels. Women
spoke to him; young men in flashy overcoats and with a peculiar, assertive, animal swing to
their shoulders loitered before the theatres or in the doorways of the hotels; from an upstairs
restaurant came the voice of another young man singing a popular song of the street. "There'll
be a hot time in the old town to-night," sang the voice.

Over a cross street Sam went into Michigan Avenue, faced by a long narrow park and beyond the
railroad tracks by the piles of new earth where the city was trying to regain its lake front.
In the cross street, standing in the shadow of the elevated railroad, he had passed a whining,
intoxicated old woman who lurched forward and put a hand upon his coat. Sam had flung her a
quarter and passed on shrugging his shoulders. Here also he had walked with unseeing eyes;
this too was a part of the gigantic machine with which the quiet, competent men of growth worked.

From his new quarters in the top floor of the hotel facing the lake, Sam walked north along
Michigan Avenue to a restaurant where Negro men went noiselessly about among white-clad tables,
serving men and women who talked and laughed under the shaded lamps had an assured, confident
air. Passing in at the door of the restaurant, a wind, blowing over the city toward the lake,
brought the sound of a voice floating with it. "There'll be a hot time in the old town to-night,"
again insisted the voice.

After dining Sam got on a grip car of the Wabash Avenue Cable, sitting on the front seat and
letting the panorama of the town roll up to him. From the region of cheap theatres he passed
through streets in which saloons stood massed, one beside another, each with its wide garish
doorway and its dimly lighted "Ladies' Entrance," and into a region of neat little stores where
women with baskets upon their arms stood by the counters and Sam was reminded of Saturday nights
in Caxton.

The two women, Edith and Janet Eberly, met through Jack Prince, to one of whom Sam had sent
the roses at the hands of the other, and from whom he had borrowed the six thousand dollars
when he was new in the city, had been in Chicago for five years when Sam came to know them.
For all of the five years they had lived in a two-story frame building that had been a residence
in Wabash Avenue near Thirty-ninth Street and that was now both a residence and a grocery store.
The apartment upstairs, reached by a stairway at the side of the grocery, had in the five years,
and under the hand of Janet Eberly, become a thing of beauty, perfect in the simplicity and
completeness of its appointment.

The two women were the daughters of a farmer who had lived in one of the middle western states
facing the Mississippi River. Their grandfather had been a noted man in the state, having been
one of its first governors and later serving it in the senate in Washington. There was a county
and a good-sized town named for him and he had once been talked of as a vice- presidential
possibility but had died at Washington before the convention at which his name was to have
been put forward. His one son, a youth of great promise, went to West Point and served brilliantly
through the Civil War, afterward commanding several western army posts and marrying the daughter
of another army man. His wife, an army belle, died after having borne him the two daughters.

After the death of his wife Major Eberly began drinking, and to get away from the habit and
from the army atmosphere where he had lived with his wife, whom he loved intensely, took the
two little girls and returned to his home state to settle on a farm.

About the county where the two girls grew to womanhood, their father, Major Eberly, got the
name of a character, seeing people but seldom and treating rudely the friendly advances of
his farmer neighbours. He would sit in the house for days poring over books, of which he had
a great many, and hundreds of which were now on open shelves in the apartment of the two girls.
These days of study, during which he would brook no intrusion, were followed by days of fierce
industry during which he led team after team to the field, ploughing or reaping day and night
with no rest except to eat.

At the edge of the Eberly farm there was a little wooden country church surrounded by a hay
field, and on Sunday mornings during the summer the ex-army man was always to be found in the
field, running some noisy, clattering agricultural implement up and down under the windows
of the church and disturbing the worship of the country folk; in the winter he drew a pile
of logs there and went on Sunday mornings to split firewood under the church windows. While
his daughters were small he was several times haled into court and fined for cruel neglect
of his animals. Once he locked a great herd of fine sheep in a shed and went into the house
and stayed for days intent upon his books so that many of them suffered cruelly for want of
food and water. When he was taken into court and fined, half the county came to the trial and
gloated over his humiliation.

To the two girls the father was neither cruel nor kind, leaving them largely to themselves
but giving them no money, so that they went about in dresses made over from those of the mother,
that lay piled in trunks in the attic. When they were small, an old Negro woman, an ex-servant
of the army belle, lived with and mothered them, but when Edith was a girl of ten this woman
went off home to Tennessee, so that the girls were thrown on their own resources and ran the
house in their own way.

Janet Eberly was, at the beginning of her friendship with Sam, a slight woman of twenty-seven
with a small expressive face, quick nervous fingers, black piercing eyes, black hair and a
way of becoming so absorbed in the exposition of a book or the rush of a conversation that
her little intense face became transfigured and her quick fingers clutched the arm of her listener
while her eyes looked into his and she lost all consciousness of his presence or of the opinions
he may have expressed. She was a cripple, having fallen from the loft of a barn in her youth
injuring her back so that she sat all day in a specially made reclining wheeled chair.

Edith was a stenographer, working in the office of a publisher down town, and Janet trimmed
hats for a milliner a few doors down the street from the house in which they lived. In his
will the father left the money from the sale of the farm to Janet, and Sam used it, insuring
his life for ten thousand dollars in her name while it was in his possession and handling it
with a caution entirely absent from his operations with the money of the medical student. "Take
it and make money for me," the little woman had said impulsively one evening shortly after
the beginning of their acquaintance and after Jack Prince had been talking flamboyantly of
Sam's ability in affairs. "What is the good of having a talent if you do not use it to benefit
those who haven't it?"

Janet Eberly was an intellect. She disregarded all the usual womanly points of view and had
an attitude of her own toward life and people. In a way she had understood her hard-driven,
grey-haired father and during the time of her great physical suffering they had built up a
kind of understanding and affection for each other. After his death she wore a miniature of
him, made in his boyhood, on a chain about her neck. When Sam met her the two immediately became
close friends, sitting for hours in talk and coming to look forward with great pleasure to
the evenings spent together.

In the Eberly household Sam McPherson was a benefactor, a wonder-worker. In his hands the six
thousand dollars was bringing two thousand a year into the house and adding immeasurably to
the air of comfort and good living that prevailed there. To Janet, who managed the house, he
was guide, counsellor, and something more than friend.

Of the two women it was the strong, vigorous Edith, with the reddish-brown hair and the air
of physical completeness that made men stop to look at her on the street, who first became
Sam's friend.

Edith Eberly was strong of body, given to quick flashes of anger, stupid intellectually and
hungry to the roots of her for wealth and a place in the world. She had heard, through Jack
Prince, of Sam's money making and of his ability and prospects and, for a time, had designs
upon his affections. Several times when they were alone together she gave his hand a characteristically
impulsive squeeze and once upon the stairway beside the grocery store offered him her lips
to kiss. Later there sprang up between her and Jack Prince a passionate love affair, dropped
finally by Prince through fear of her violent fits of anger. After Sam had met Janet Eberly
and had become her loyal friend and henchman all show of affection or even of interest between
him and Edith was at an end and the kiss upon the stairs was forgotten.

       *       *       *       *       *

Going up the stairway after the ride in the cable car Sam stood beside Janet's wheel chair
in the room at the front of the apartment facing Wabash Avenue. The chair was by the window
and faced an open coal fire in a grate she had had built into the wall of the house. Outside,
through an open arched doorway, Edith moved noiselessly about taking dishes from a little table.
He knew that after a time Jack Prince would come and take her to the theatre, leaving Janet
and him to finish their talk.

Sam lighted his pipe and between puffs began talking, making a statement that he knew would
arouse her, and Janet, putting her hand impulsively on his shoulder, began tearing the statement
to bits.

"You talk!" she broke out. "Books are not full of pretence and lies; you business men are--you
and Jack Prince. What do you know of books? They are the most wonderful things in the world.
Men sit writing them and forget to lie, but you business men never forget. You and books! You
haven't read books, not real ones. Didn't my father know; didn't he save himself from insanity
through books? Do I not, sitting here, get the real feel of the movement of the world through
the books that men write? Suppose I saw those men. They would swagger and strut and take themselves
seriously just like you or Jack or the grocer down stairs. You think you know what's going
on in the world. You think you are doing things, you Chicago men of money and action and growth.
You are blind, all blind."

The little woman, a light, half scorn, half amusement in her eyes, leaned forward and ran her
fingers through Sam's hair, laughing down into the astonished face he turned up to her.

"Oh, I'm not afraid, in spite of what Edith and Jack Prince say of you," she went on impulsively.
"I like you all right and if I were a well woman I should make love to you and marry you and
then see to it there was something in this world for you besides money and tall buildings and
men and machines that make guns."

Sam grinned. "You are like your father, driving the mowing machine up and down under the church
windows on Sunday mornings," he declared; "you think you could remake the world by shaking
your fist at it. I should like to go and see you fined in a court room for starving sheep."

Janet, closing her eyes and lying back in her chair, laughed with delight and declared that
they would have a splendid quarrelsome evening.

After Edith had gone out, Sam sat through the evening with Janet, listening to her exposition
of life and what she thought it should mean to a strong capable fellow like himself, as he
had been listening ever since their acquaintanceship began. In the talk, and in the many talks
they had had together, talks that rang in his ears for years, the little black-eyed woman gave
him a glimpse into a whole purposeful universe of thought and action of which he had never
dreamed, introducing him to a new world of men: methodical, hard-thinking Germans, emotional,
dreaming Russians, analytical, courageous Norwegians, Spaniards and Italians with their sense
of beauty, and blundering, hopeful Englishmen wanting so much and getting so little; so that
at the end of the evening he went out of her presence feeling strangely small and insignificant
against the great world background she had drawn for him.

Sam did not understand Janet's point of view. It was all too new and foreign to everything
life had taught him, and in his mind he fought her ideas doggedly, clinging to his own concrete,
practical thoughts and hopes, but on the train homeward bound, and in his own room later, he
turned over and over in his mind the things she had said and tried in a dim way to grasp the
bigness of the conception of human life she had got sitting in a wheel chair and looking down
into Wabash Avenue.

Sam loved Janet Eberly. No word of that had ever passed between them and he had seen her hand
flash out and grasp the shoulder of Jack Prince when she was laying down to him some law of
life as she saw it, as it had so often shot out and grasped his own, but had she been able
to spring out of the wheel chair he should have taken her hand and gone with her to the clergyman
within the hour and in his heart he knew that she would have gone with him gladly.

Janet died suddenly during the second year of Sam's work for the gun company without a direct
declaration of affection from him, but during the years when they were much together he thought
of her as in a sense his wife and when she died he was desolate, overdrinking night after night
and wandering aimlessly through the deserted streets during hours when he should have been
asleep. She was the first woman who ever got hold of and stirred his manhood, and she awoke
something in him that made it possible for him later to see life with a broadness and scope
of vision that was no part of the pushing, energetic young man of dollars and of industry who
sat beside her wheeled chair during the evenings on Wabash Avenue.

After Janet's death, Sam did not continue his friendship with Edith, but turned over to her
the ten thousand dollars to which the six thousand of Janet's money had grown in his hands
and did not see her again.

CHAPTER IV

One night in April Colonel Tom Rainey of the great Rainey Arms Company and his chief lieutenant,
young Sam McPherson, treasurer and chairman of the board of directors of the company, slept
together in a room in a St. Paul hotel. It was a double room with two beds, and Sam, lying
on his pillow, looked across the bed to where the colonel's paunch protruding itself between
him and the light from a long narrow window, made a round hill above which the moon just peeped.
During the evening the two men had sat for several hours at a table in the grill down stairs
while Sam discussed a proposition he proposed making to a St. Paul jobber the next day. The
account of the jobber, a large one, had been threatened by Lewis, the Jew manager of the Edwards
Arms Company, the Rainey Company's only important western rival, and Sam was full of ideas
to checkmate the shrewd trade move the Jew had made. At the table, the colonel had been silent
and taciturn, an unusual attitude of mind for him, and Sam lay in bed and looked at the moon
gradually working its way over the undulating abdominal hill, wondering what was in his mind.
The hill dropped, showing the full face of the moon, and then rose again obliterating it.

"Sam, were you ever in love?" asked the colonel, with a sigh.

Sam turned and buried his face in the pillow and the white covering of his bed danced up and
down. "The old fool, has it come to that with him?" he asked himself. "After all these years
of single life is he going to begin running after women now?"

He did not answer the colonel's question. "There are breakers ahead for you, old boy," he thought,
the figure of quiet, determined, little Sue Rainey, the colonel's daughter, as he had seen
her on the rare occasions when he had dined at the Rainey home or she had come into the LaSalle
Street offices, coming into his mind. With a quiver of enjoyment of the mental exercise, he
tried to imagine the colonel as a swaggering blade among women.

The colonel, oblivious of Sam's mirth and of his silence regarding his experience in the field
of love, began talking, making amends for the silence in the grill. He told Sam that he had
decided to take to himself a new wife, and confessed that the view of the matter his daughter
might take worried him. "Children are so unfair," he complained; "they forget about a man's
feelings and can't realise that his heart is still young."

With a smile on his lips, Sam began trying to picture a woman's lying in his place and looking
at the moon over the pulsating hill. The colonel continued talking. He grew franker, telling
the name of his beloved and the circumstances of their meeting and courtship. "She is an actress,
a working girl," he said feelingly. "I met her at a dinner given by Will Sperry one evening
and she was the only woman there who did not drink wine. After the dinner we went for a drive
together and she told me of her hard life, of her fight against temptations, and of her brother,
an artist, she is trying to get started in the world. We have been together a dozen times and
have written letters, and, Sam, we have discovered an affinity for each other."

Sam sat up in bed. "Letters!" he muttered. "The old dog is going to get himself involved."
He dropped again upon the pillow. "Well, let him. Why need I bother myself?"

The colonel, having begun talking, could not stop. "Although we have seen each other only a
dozen times, a letter has passed between us every day. Oh, if you could see the letters she
writes. They are wonderful."

A worried sigh broke from the colonel. "I want Sue to invite her to the house, but I am afraid,"
he complained; "I am afraid she will be wrong- headed about it. Women are such determined creatures.
She and my Luella should meet and know each other, but if I go home and tell her she may make
a scene and hurt Luella's feelings."

The moon had risen, shedding its light in Sam's eyes, and he turned his back to the colonel
and prepared to sleep. The naive credulity of the older man had touched a spring of mirth in
him and from time to time the covering of his bed continued to quiver suggestively.

"I would not hurt her feelings for anything. She is the squarest little woman alive," the voice
of the colonel announced. The voice broke and the colonel, who habitually roared forth his
sentiments, began to dither. Sam wondered if his feelings had been touched by the thoughts
of his daughter or of the lady from the stage. "It is a wonderful thing," half sobbed the colonel,
"when a young and beautiful woman gives her whole heart into the keeping of a man like me."

It was a week later before Sam heard more of the affair. Looking up from his desk in the offices
in LaSalle Street one morning, he found Sue Rainey standing before him. She was a small athletic
looking woman with black hair, square shoulders, cheeks browned by the sun and wind, and quiet
grey eyes. She stood facing Sam's desk and pulled off a glove while she looked down at him
with amused, quizzical eyes. Sam rose, and leaning over the flat-topped desk, took her hand,
wondering what had brought her there.

Sue Rainey did not mince matters, but plunged at once into an explanation of the purpose of
her visit. From birth she had lived in an atmosphere of wealth. Although she was not counted
a beautiful woman, she had, because of her wealth and the charm of her person, been much courted.
Sam, who had talked briefly with her a half dozen times, had long had a haunting curiosity
to know more of her personality. As she stood there before him looking so wonderfully well-kept
and confident he thought her baffling and puzzling.

"The colonel," she began, and then hesitated and smiled. "You, Mr. McPherson, have become a
figure in my father's life. He depends upon you very much. He tells me that he has talked with
you concerning a Miss Luella London from the theatre, and that you have agreed with him that
the colonel and she should marry."

Sam watched her gravely. A flicker of mirth ran through him, but his face was grave and disinterested.

"Yes?" he said, looking into her eyes. "Have you met Miss London?"

"I have," answered Sue Rainey. "Have you?"

Sam shook his head.

"She is impossible," declared the colonel's daughter, clutching the glove held in her hand
and staring at the floor. A flush of anger rose in her cheeks. "She is a crude, hard, scheming
woman. She colours her hair, she cries when you look at her, she hasn't even the grace to be
ashamed of what she is trying to do, and she has got the colonel into a fix."

Sam looked at the brown of Sue Rainey's cheek and thought the texture of it beautiful. He wondered
why he had heard her called a plain woman. The heightened colour brought to her face by her
anger had, he thought, transfigured her. He liked her direct, forceful way of putting the matter
of the colonel's affair, and felt keenly the compliment implied by her having come to him.
"She has self-respect," he told himself, and felt a thrill of pride in her attitude as though
it had been inspired by himself.

"I have been hearing of you a great deal," she continued, glancing up at him and smiling. "At
our house you are brought to the table with the soup and taken away with the liqueur. My father
interlards his table talk, and introduces all of his wise new axioms on economy and efficiency
and growth, with a constant procession of 'Sam says' and 'Sam thinks.' And the men who come
to the house talk of you also. Teddy Foreman says that at directors' meetings they all sit
about like children waiting for you to tell them what to do."

She threw out her hand with an impatient little gesture. "I am in a hole," she said. "I might
handle my father but I cannot handle that woman."

While she had been talking to him Sam looked past her and out at a window. When her eyes wandered
from his face he looked again at her brown firm cheeks. From the beginning of the interview
he had been intending to help her.

"Give me the lady's address," he said; "I'll go look her over."

Three evenings later Sam took Miss Luella London to a midnight supper at one of the town's
best restaurants. She knew the motive of his taking her, as he had been quite frank in the
few minutes' talk near the stage door of the theatre when the engagement was made. As they
ate, they talked of the plays at the Chicago theatres, and Sam told her a story of an amateur
performance that had once taken place in the hall over Geiger's drug store in Caxton when he
was boy. In the performance Sam had taken the role of a drummer boy killed on the field of
battle by a swaggering villain in a grey uniform, and John Telfer, in the role of villain,
had become so in earnest that, a pistol not exploding at a critical moment, he had chased Sam
about the stage trying to hit him with the butt of the weapon while the audience roared with
delight at the realism of Telfer's rage and at the frightened boy begging for mercy.

Luella London laughed heartily at Sam's story and then, the coffee being served, she fingered
the handle of the cup and a shrewd look came into her eyes.

"And now you are a big business man and have come to see me about Colonel Rainey," she said.

Sam lighted a cigar.

"Just how much are you counting on this marriage between yourself and the colonel?" he asked
bluntly.

The actress laughed and poured cream into her coffee. A line came and went on her forehead
between her eyes. Sam thought she looked capable.

"I have been thinking of what you told me at the stage door," she said, and a childlike smile
played about her lips. "Do you know, Mr. McPherson, I can't just figure you. I can't just see
how you get into this. Where are your credentials, anyway?"

Sam, keeping his eyes upon her face, took a jump into the dark.

"It's this way," he said, "I'm something of an adventurer myself. I fly the black flag. I come
from where you do. I had to reach out my hand and take what I wanted. I do not blame you in
the least, but it just happens that I saw Colonel Tom Rainey first. He is my game and I do
not propose to have you fooling around. I am not bluffing. You have got to get off him."

Leaning forward, he stared at her intently, and then lowered his voice. "I've got your record.
I know the man you used to live with. He's going to help me get you if you do not drop it."

Sitting back in his chair Sam watched her gravely. He had taken the odd chance to win quickly
by a bluff and had won. But Luella London was not to be defeated without a struggle.

"You lie," she cried, half springing from her chair. "Frank has never--"

"Oh yes, Frank has," answered Sam, turning as though to call a waiter; "I will have him here
in ten minutes if you wish to be shown."

Picking up a fork the woman began nervously picking holes in the table cloth and a tear appeared
upon her cheek. She took a handkerchief from a bag that hung hooked over the back of a chair
at the side of the table and wiped her eyes.

"All right! All right!" she said, bracing herself, "I'll drop it. If you've dug up Frank Robson
you've got me. He'll do anything you say for a piece of money."

For some minutes the two sat in silence. A tired look had come into the woman's eyes.

"I wish I was a man," she said. "I get whipped at everything I tackle because I'm a woman.
I'm getting past my money-making days in the theatre and I thought the colonel was fair game."

"He is," answered Sam dispassionately, "but you see I beat you to it. He's mine."

Glancing cautiously about the room, he took a roll of bills from his pocket and began laying
them one at a time upon the table.

"Look here," he said, "you've done a good piece of work. You should have won. For ten years
half the society women of Chicago have been trying to marry their daughters or their sons to
the Rainey fortune. They had everything to help them, wealth, good looks, and a standing in
the world. You have none of these things. How did you do it?

"Anyway," he went on, "I'm not going to see you trimmed. I've got ten thousand dollars here,
as good Rainey money as ever was printed. You sign this paper and then put the roll in your purse."

"That's square," said Luella London, signing, and with the light coming back into her eyes.

Sam beckoned to the proprietor of the restaurant whom he knew and had him and a waiter sign
as witnesses.

Luella London put the roll of bills into her purse.

"What did you give me that money for when you had me beat anyway?" she asked.

Sam lighted a fresh cigar and folding the paper put it in his pocket.

"Because I like you and I admire your skill," he said, "and anyway I did not have you beaten
until right now."

They sat studying the people getting up from the tables and going through the door to waiting
carriages and automobiles, the well-dressed women with assured airs serving Sam's mind to make
a contrast for the woman who sat with him.

"I presume you are right about women," he said musingly, "it must be a stiff game for you if
you like winning on your own hook."

"Winning! We don't win." The lips of the actress drew back showing her white teeth. "No woman
ever won who tried to play a straight fighting game for herself."

Her voice grew tense and the lines upon her forehead reappeared.

"Woman can't stand alone," she went on, "she is a sentimental fool. She reaches out her hand
to some man and that in the end beats her. Why, even when she plays the game as I played it
against the colonel some rat of a man like Frank Robson, for whom she has given up everything
worth while to a woman, sells her out."

Sam looked at her hand, covered with rings, lying on the table.

"Let's not misunderstand each other," he said quietly, "do not blame Frank for this. I never
knew him. I just imagined him."

A puzzled look came into the woman's eyes and a flush rose in her cheeks.

"You grafter!" she sneered.

Sam called to a passing waiter and ordered a fresh bottle of wine.

"What's the use being sore?" he asked. "It's simple enough. You staked against a better mind.
Anyway you have the ten thousand, haven't you?"

Luella reached for her purse.

"I don't know," she said, "I'll look. Haven't you decided to steal it back yet?"

Sam laughed.

"I'm coming to that," he said, "don't hurry me."

For several minutes they sat eyeing each other, and then, with an earnest ring in his voice
and a smile on his lips, Sam began talking again.

"Look here!" he said, "I'm no Frank Robson and I do not like giving a woman the worst of it.
I have been studying you and I can't see you running around loose with ten thousand dollars
of real money on you. You do not fit into the picture and the money will not last a year in
your hands.

"Give it to me," he urged; "let me invest it for you. I'm a winner. I'll double it for you
in a year."

The actress stared past Sam's shoulder to where a group of young men sat about a table drinking
and talking loudly. Sam began telling an anecdote of an Irish baggage man in Caxton. When he
had finished he looked at her and laughed.

"As that shoemaker looked to Jerry Donlin so you, as the colonel's wife, looked to me," he
said. "I had to make you get out of my flower bed."

A gleam of resolution came into the wandering eyes of Luella London and she took the purse
from the back of the chair and brought out the roll of bills.

"I'm a sport," she said, "and I'm going to lay a bet on the best horse I ever saw. You may
trim me, but I always would take a chance."

Turning, she called a waiter and, handing him a bill from her purse, threw the roll on the table.

"Take the pay for the spread and the wine we have had out of that," she said, handing him the
loose bill and then turning to Sam. "You ought to beat the world. Anyway your genius gets recognition
from me. I pay for this party and when you see the colonel say good-bye to him for me."

The next day, at his request, Sue Rainey called at the offices of the Arms Company and Sam
handed her the paper signed by Luella London. It was an agreement on her part to divide with
Sam, half and half, any money she might be able to blackmail out of Colonel Rainey.

The colonel's daughter glanced from the paper to Sam's face.

"I thought so," she said, and a puzzled look came into her eyes. "But I do not understand this.
What does this paper do and what did you pay for it?"

"The paper," Sam answered, "puts her in a hole and I paid ten thousand dollars for it."

Sue Rainey laughed and taking a checkbook from her handbag laid it on the desk and sat down.

"Do you get your half?" she asked.

"I get it all," answered Sam, and then leaning back in his chair launched into an explanation.
When he had told her of the talk in the restaurant she sat with the checkbook lying before
her and with the puzzled look still in her eyes.

Without giving her time for comment, Sam plunged into the midst of what had been in his mind
to say to her.

"The woman will not bother the colonel any more," he declared; "if that paper won't hold her
something else will. She respects me and she is afraid of me. We had a talk after she had signed
the paper and she gave me the ten thousand dollars to invest for her. I promised to double
it for her within a year and I want to make good. I want you to double it now. Make the check
for twenty thousand."

Sue Rainey wrote the check, making it payable to bearer, and pushed it across the table.

"I cannot say that I understand yet," she confessed. "Did you also fall in love with her?"

Sam grinned. He was wondering whether he would be able to get into words just what he wanted
to tell her of the actress soldier of fortune. He looked across the table at her frank grey
eyes and then on an impulse decided that he would tell it straight out as though she had been
a man.

"It's like this," he said. "I like ability and good brains and that woman has them. She isn't
a good woman, but nothing in her life has made her want to be good. All her life she has been
going the wrong way, and now she wants to get on her feet and squared around. That's what she
was after the colonel for. She did not want to marry him, she wanted to make him give her the
start she was after. I got the best of her because somewhere there is a snivelling little whelp
of a man who has taken all the good and the fineness out of her and who now stands ready to
sell her out for a few dollars. I imagined there would be such a man when I saw her and I bluffed
my way through to him. But I do not want to whip a woman, even in such an affair, through the
cheapness of some man. I want to do the square thing by her. That's why I asked you to make
that check for twenty thousand."

Sue Rainey rose and stood by the desk looking down at him. He was thinking how wonderfully
clear and honest her eyes.

"And what about the colonel?" she asked. "What will he think of all this?"

Sam walked around the desk and took her hand.

"We'll have to agree not to consider him," he said. "We really did that you know when we started
this thing. I think we can depend upon Miss London's putting the finishing touches on the job."

And Miss London did. She sent for Sam a week later and put tweny-five hundred dollars into
his hand.

"That's not to invest for me," she said, "that's for yourself. By the agreement I signed with
you we were to split anything I got out of the colonel. Well, I went light. I only got five
thousand dollars."

With the money in his hand Sam stood by the side of a little table in her room looking at her.

"What did you tell the colonel?" he asked.

"I called him up here to my room last night and lying here in bed I told him that I had just
discovered I was the victim of an incurable disease. I told him that within a month I would
be in bed for keeps and asked him to marry me at once and to take me away with him to some
quiet place where I could die in his arms."

Coming over to Sam, Luella London put a hand upon his arm and laughed.

"He began to beg off and make excuses," she went on, "and then I brought out his letters to
me and talked straight. He wilted at once and paid the five thousand dollars I asked for the
letters without a murmur. I might have made it fifty and with your talent you ought to get
all he has in six months."

Sam shook hands with her and told her of his success in doubling the money she had put into
his hands. Then putting the twenty-five hundred dollars in his pocket he went back to his desk.
He did not see her again and when, through a lucky market turn, he had increased the twenty
thousand dollars she had left with him to twenty-five, he placed it in the hands of a trust
company for her and forgot the incident. Years later he heard that she was running a fashionable
dressmaking establishment in a western city.

And Colonel Tom Rainey, who had for months talked of nothing but factory efficiency and of
what he and young Sam McPherson were going to do in the way of enlarging the business, began
the next morning a tirade against women that lasted the rest of his life.

CHAPTER V

Sue Rainey had long touched the fancy of the youths of Chicago society who, while looking at
her trim little figure and at the respectable size of the fortune behind it, were yet puzzled
and disconcerted by her attitude toward themselves. On the wide porches at golf clubs, where
young men in white trousers lounged and smoked cigarettes, and in the down-town clubs, where
the same young men spent winter afternoons playing Kelly pool, they spoke of her, calling her
an enigma. "She'll end by being an old maid," they declared, and shook their heads at the thought
of so good a connection dangling loosely in the air just without their reach. From time to
time, one of the young men tore himself loose from the group that contemplated her, and, with
an opening volley of books, candy, flowers and invitations to theatres, charged down upon her,
only to have the youthful ardour of his attack cooled by her prolonged attitude of indifference.
When she was twenty-one, a young English cavalry officer, who came to Chicago to ride in the
horse show had, for some weeks, been seen much in her company and a report of their engagement
had been whispered through the town and talked of about the nineteenth hole at the country
clubs. The rumour proved to be without foundation, the attraction to the cavalry officer having
been a certain brand of rare old wine the colonel had stored in his cellar and a feeling of
brotherhood with the swaggering old gun maker, rather than the colonel's quiet little daughter.

After the beginning of his acquaintanceship with her, and all during the days when he stirred
things up in the offices and shops of the gun company, tales of the assiduous and often needy
young men who were camped on her trail reached Sam's ears. They would be in at the office to
see and talk with the colonel, who had several times confided to Sam that his daughter Sue
was already past the age at which right-minded young women should marry, and in the absence
of the father two or three of them had formed a habit of stopping for a word with Sam, whom
they had met through the colonel or Jack Prince. They declared that they were "squaring themselves
with the colonel." Not a difficult thing to do, Sam thought, as he drank the wine, smoked the
cigars, and ate the dinners of all without prejudice. Once, at luncheon, Colonel Tom discussed
these young men with Sam, pounding on a table so that the glasses jumped about, and calling
them damned upstarts.

For his own part, Sam did not feel that he knew Sue Rainey, and although, after their first
meeting one evening at the Rainey house, he had been pricked by a mild curiosity concerning
her, no opportunity to satisfy it had presented itself. He knew that she was athletic, travelled
much, rode, shot, and sailed a boat; and he had heard Jack Prince speak of her as a woman of
brains, but, until the incident of the colonel and Luella London threw them for the moment
into the same enterprise and started him thinking of her with real interest, he had seen and
talked with her for but brief passing moments brought about by their mutual interest in the
affairs of her father.

After Janet Eberly's sudden death, and while he was yet in the midst of his grief at her loss,
Sam had his first long talk with Sue Rainey. It was in Colonel Tom's office, and Sam, walking
hurriedly in, found her sitting at the colonel's desk and staring out of the window at a broad
expanse of flat roofs. A man, climbing a flag pole to replace a slipped rope, caught his attention
and standing by the window looking at the minute figure clinging to the swaying pole, he began
talking of the absurdity of human endeavour.

The colonel's daughter listened respectfully to his rather obvious banalities and getting up
from her chair came to stand beside him. Sam turned slyly to look at her firm brown cheeks
as he had looked on the morning when she had come to see him about Luella London and was struck
by the thought that she in some faint way reminded him of Janet Eberly. In a moment, and rather
to his own surprise, he burst into a long speech telling of Janet, of the tragedy of her loss
and something of the beauty of her life and character.

The nearness of his loss and the nearness also of what he thought might be a sympathetic listener
spurred him and he found himself getting a kind of relief for the aching sense of loss for
his dead comrade by heaping praises upon her life.

When he had finished saying what was in his mind, he stood by the window feeling awkward and
embarrassed. The man who climbed the flag pole having put the rope through the ring at the
top slid suddenly down the pole and thinking for the moment that he had fallen Sam made a quick
clutch at the air with his hand. His gripping fingers closed over Sue Rainey's hand.

He turned, amused by the incident, and began making a halting explanation. There were tears
in Sue Rainey's eyes.

"I wish I had known her," she said and drew her hand from between his fingers. "I wish you
had known me better that I also might have known your Janet. They are rare--such women. They
are worth much to know. Most women like most men--"

She made an impatient gesture with her hand and Sam, turning, walked toward the door. He felt
that he might not trust himself to answer her. For the first time since coming to manhood he
felt that tears might at any moment come into his eyes. Grief for the loss of Janet surged
through him disconcerting and engulfing him.

"I have been doing you an injustice," said Sue Rainey, looking at the floor. "I have thought
of you as something different from what you are. There is a story I heard of you which gave
me a wrong impression."

Sam smiled. Having conquered the commotion within himself, he laughed and explained the incident
of the man who had slid down the pole.

"What was the story you heard?" he asked.

"It was a story a young man told at our house," she explained hesitatingly, refusing to be
carried away from her mood of seriousness. "It was about a little girl you saved from drowning
and a purse made up and given you. Why did you take the money?"

Sam looked at her squarely. The story was one that Jack Prince had delight in telling. It concerned
an incident of his early business life in the city.

One afternoon, when he was still in the employ of the commission firm, he had taken a party
of men for a trip on an excursion steamer on the lake. He had a project into which he wanted
them to go with him and had taken them aboard the steamer to get them together and present
the merits of his scheme. During the trip a little girl had fallen overboard and Sam, springing
after her, had brought her safely aboard the boat.

On the excursion steamer a cheer had arisen. A young man in a broad- brimmed cowboy hat ran
about taking up a collection. People crowded forward to grasp Sam's hand and he had accepted
the money collected and had put it in his pocket.

Among the men aboard the boat were several who, while they did not draw back from going into
Sam's project, had thought his taking the money not manly. They had told the story, and it
had come to the ears of Jack Prince, who never tired of repeating it and always ended the story
with the request that the listener ask Sam why he had taken the money.

Now in Colonel Tom's office facing Sue Rainey, Sam made the explanation that had so delighted
Jack Prince.

"The crowd wanted to give me the money," he said, slightly perplexed. "Why shouldn't I have
taken it? I did not save the little girl for the money, but because she was a little girl;
and the money paid for my ruined clothes and the expenses of the trip."

With his hand on the doorknob he looked steadily at the woman before him.

"And I wanted the money," he announced, a ring of defiance in his voice. "I have always wanted
money, any money I could get."

Sam went back to his own office and sat down at his desk. He had been surprised by the cordiality
and friendliness Sue Rainey had shown toward him. On an impulse, he wrote a letter, defending
his position in the matter of the money taken on the excursion steamer and setting forth something
of the attitude of his mind toward money and business affairs.

"I cannot see myself believing in the rot most business men talk," he wrote at the end of the
letter. "They are full of sentiment and ideals which are not true. Having a thing to sell they
always say it is the best, although it may be third rate. I do not object to that. What I do
object to is the way they have of nursing a hope within themselves that the third rate thing
is first rate until the hope becomes a belief. In the talk I had with that actress Luella London
I told her that I myself flew the black flag. Well, I do. I would lie about goods to sell them,
but I would not lie to myself. I will not stultify my own mind. If a man crosses swords with
me in a business deal and I come out of the affair with the money, it is no sign that I am
the greater rascal, rather it is a sign that I am the keener man."

With the note lying before him on the desk Sam wondered why he had written it. It seemed to
him an accurate and straightforward statement of the business creed he had adopted for himself,
but a rather absurd note to write to a woman. And then, not allowing himself time to reconsider
his action, he addressed an envelope and going out into the general offices dropped it into
the mail chute.

"It will let her know where I stand anyway," he thought, with a return of the defiant mood
in which he had told her the motive of his action on the boat.

Within the next ten days after the talk in Colonel Tom's office Sam saw Sue Rainey several
times coming to or going from her father's office. Once, meeting in the little lobby by the
office entrance, she stopped and put out her hand which Sam took awkwardly. He had a feeling
that she would not have regretted an opportunity to continue the sudden little intimacy that
had sprung up between them in the few minutes' talk of Janet Eberly. The feeling did not come
from vanity but from a belief in Sam that she was in some way lonely and wanting companionship.
Although she had been much courted she lacked, he thought, the talent for comradeship or quick
friendliness. "Like Janet she is more than half intellect," he told himself, and felt a pang
of regret for the slight disloyalty of the further thought that there was in Sue a something
more substantial and solid than there had been in Janet.

Suddenly Sam began wondering whether or not he would like to marry Sue Rainey. His mind played
with the idea. He took it with him to bed, and it went with him all day in his hurried trips
through offices and shops. The thought having come to him persisted, and he began seeing her
in a new light. The odd half awkward little movements of her hands, and their expressiveness,
the brown fine texture of her cheeks, the clearness and honesty of her grey eyes, the quick
sympathy and understanding of his feeling for Janet, and the subtle flattery of the notion
he had got that she was interested in him--all of these things came and went in his mind while
he ran through columns of figures and laid plans for the expansion of the business of the Arms
Company. Unconsciously he began to make her a part of his plans for the future.

Later, Sam discovered that during the days after the first talk together the thought of a marriage
between them was in Sue's mind also. After the talk she went home and stood for an hour before
the glass studying herself and she once told Sam that in her bed that night she shed tears
because she had never been able to arouse in a man the note of tenderness that had been in
his voice when he talked to her of Janet.

And then two months after the first talk they had another. Sam, who had not allowed his grief
over the loss of Janet or his nightly efforts to drown the sting of it in hard drinking, to
check the big forward movement that he felt he was getting into the work of the offices and
shops, sat one afternoon deeply absorbed in a pile of factory cost sheets. His shirt sleeves
were rolled to the elbow, showing his white muscular forearms. He was absorbed, intent upon
the sheets.

"I stepped in," said a voice above his head.

Glancing up quickly, Sam sprang to his feet. "She must have been there some minutes looking
down at me," he thought, and had a thrill of pleasure in the thought.

Into his mind came the contents of the letter he had written her, and he wondered if after
all he had been a fool, and whether the thoughts of a marriage with her were but vagaries.
"Perhaps it would not be attractive to either her or myself when we came up to it," he decided.

"I stepped in," she began again. "I have been thinking. Some things you said--in the letter
and when you talked of your friend Janet who died-- some things of men and women and work.
You may not remember them. I--I got interested. I--are you a socialist?"

"I believe not," Sam answered, wondering what had given her that thought. "Are you?"

She laughed and shook her head.

"Just what are you?" she went on. "What do you believe? I am curious to know. I thought your
note--you will pardon me--I thought it a kind of pretence."

Sam winced. A shadow of doubt of the sincerity of his business philosophy crossed his mind
accompanied by the swaggering figure of Windy McPherson. He came around the desk and leaning
against it looked at her. His secretary had gone out of the room and they were alone together.
Sam laughed.

"There was a man in the town where I was raised used to say that I was a little mole working
underground, intent upon worms," he said, and then, waving his arms toward the papers on the
desk, added, "I am a business man. Isn't that enough? If you could go with me through some
of these cost sheets you would agree they are needed."

He turned and faced her again.

"What should I be doing with beliefs?" he asked.

"Well, I think you have them--some kind of beliefs," she insisted, "you must have them. You
get things done. You should hear the men talk of you. Sometimes at the house they are quite
foolish about what a wonderful fellow you are and what you are doing here. They say that you
drive on and on. What drives you? I want to know."

For the moment Sam half suspected that she was secretly laughing at him. Finding her quite
serious he started to reply and then stopped, regarding her.

The silence between them went on and on. A clock on the wall ticked loudly.

Sam stepped nearer to her and stood looking down into the face she slowly turned up to his.

"I want to have a talk with you," he said, and his voice broke. He had the illusion of a hand
gripping at his throat.

In a flash he had definitely decided that he would try to marry her. Her interest in the motives
of his life had clinched the sort of half decision he had made. In an illuminating moment during
the prolonged silence between them he had seen her in a new light. The feeling of vague intimacy
brought to him by his thoughts of her became a fixed belief that she belonged to him--was a
part of him--and he was charmed with her manner, and her person, standing there, as with a
gift given him.

And then into his mind came a hundred other thoughts, clamouring thoughts, come out of the
hidden parts of him. He began to think that she could lead the way on a road he wanted to travel.
He thought of her wealth and what it would mean to a man filled with his hunger for power.
And through these thoughts shot others. Something in her had taken hold of him--something that
had been also in Janet. He was curious concerning her curiosity about his beliefs, and wanted
to question her concerning her own beliefs. He could see none of Colonel Tom's blustering incompetence
in her and thought her filled with truth as a deep spring is filled with clear water. He believed
she would give him something, something that all his life he had been wanting. An old aching
hunger that had haunted his nights as a boy came back and he thought that at her hand it might
be fed.

"I--I must read a book about socialism," he said lamely.

Again they stood in silence, she looking at the floor, he past her head and out at the window.
He could not bring himself to speak again of the proposed talk. He had a boyish dread of having
her notice the tremor in his voice.

Colonel Tom came into the room, bursting with an idea Sam had given him at the lunch hour and
which in working its way into his mind had become to the colonel's entirely honest belief an
idea of his own. The interruption brought to Sam an intense feeling of relief and he began
talking of the colonel's idea as though it had taken him unawares.

Sue, walking to a window, began tying and untying the curtain cord. When Sam, raising his eyes,
looked at her, he caught her eyes watching him intently and she smiled, continuing to look
at him squarely. It was his eyes that first broke away.

From that day Sam's mind was afire with thoughts of Sue Rainey. In his room he sat, or going
into Grant Park stood by the lake, looking at the silent, moving water as he had looked in
the days when he first came to the city. He did not dream of having her in his arms or of kissing
her lips; he thought, instead, with a glowing heart, of a life lived with her. He wanted to
walk beside her through the streets, to have her come suddenly in at his office door, to look
into her eyes and to have her question him, as she had questioned, concerning his beliefs and
his hopes. He thought that in the evening he would like to go to a house of his own and find
her sitting there waiting for him. The priest decides that the statesman wasn't a Jew. It is
a bewilderment that Daru wrote that using the term Jew. He and other noted authors adopted the
precedent set by the writings of Saunto, as printed by Muratori[2] exposing the pitfall relying on other
writers material for research. Conversely, the true meaning may be found in a British Museum's
preserved volume of the Orations of Mocenigo pre-dating Saunto. Sometimes pushing his bed to the window overlooking
the lake, he would undress immediately after dinner and opening the window would spend half
the night watching the lights of boats far away over the water and thinking of her. He would
imagine her in the room, moving here and there, and coming occasionally to put her hand in
his hair and look down at him as Janet had done, helping by her sane talk and quiet ways to
get his life straightened out for good living.

And when he had fallen asleep the face of Sue Rainey came to visit his dreams. One night he
thought she had become blind and sat in the room with sightless eyes saying over and over like
one demented, "Truth, truth, give me back the truth that I may see," and he awoke sick with
horror at the thought of the look of suffering that had been in her face. Never did Sam dream
of having her in his arms or of raining kisses on her lips and neck as he had dreamed of other
women who in the past had won his favour.

For all that he thought of her so constantly and built so confidently his dream of a life to
be spent with her, months passed before he saw her again. Through Colonel Tom he learned that
she had gone for a visit to the East and he went earnestly about his work, keeping his mind
on his business during the day and only in the evening allowing himself to become absorbed
in thoughts of her. He had a feeling that although he had said nothing she knew of his desire
for her and that she wanted time to think it over. Several times in the evening in his room
he wrote her long letters filled with minute, boyish explanations of his thoughts and motives,
letters which after writing he immediately destroyed. A woman of the west side, with whom he
had once had an affair, met him one day on the street, and put her hand familiarly on his arm
and for the moment reawakened in him an old desire. After leaving her he did not go back to
the office, but taking a south-bound car, spent the afternoon walking in Jackson Park, watching
the children at play on the grass, sitting on benches under the trees, getting out of his body
and his mind the insistent call of the flesh that had come back to him.

Then in the evening, he came suddenly upon Sue riding a spirited black horse in a bridle path
at the upper end of the park. It was just at the grey beginning of night. Stopping the horse,
she sat looking at him and going to her he put a hand on the bridle.

"We might have that talk," he said.

She smiled down at him and the colour began to rise in her brown cheeks.

"I have been thinking of it," she said, the familiar serious look coming into her eyes. "After
all what have we to say to each other?"

Sam watched her steadily.

"I have a lot of things to say to you," he announced. "That is to say-- well--I have, if things
are as I hope." She got off the horse and they stood together by the side of the path. Sam
never forgot the few minutes of silence that followed. The wide prospects of green sward, the
golf player trudging wearily toward them through the uncertain light, his bag upon his shoulder,
the air of physical fatigue with which he walked, bending slightly forward, the faint, soft
sound of waves washing over a low beach, and the intense waiting look on the face she turned
up to him, made an impression on his mind that stayed with him through life. It seemed to him
that he had arrived at a kind of culmination, a starting point, and that all the vague shadowy
uncertainties that had, in reflective moments, flitted through his mind, were to be brushed
away by some act, some word, from the lips of this woman. With a rush he realised how consistently
he had been thinking of her and how enormously he had been counting on her falling in with
his plans, and the realisation was followed by a sickening moment of fear. How little he actually
knew of her and of her way of thought. What assurance had he that she would not laugh, jump
back upon the horse, and ride away? He was afraid as he had never been afraid before. Dumbly
his mind groped about for a way to begin. Expressions he had caught and noted in her strong
serious little face when he had achieved but a mild curiosity concerning her came back to visit
his mind and he tried desperately to build an instant idea of her from these. And then turning
his face from her he plunged directly into his thoughts of the past months as though she had
been sharing talking to the colonel."

"I have been thinking we might marry, you and I," he said, and cursed himself for the blundering
bluntness of the declaration.

"You do get things done, don't you?" she replied, smiling.

"Why should you have been thinking anything of the sort?"

"Because I want to live with you," he said; "I have been talking to the colonel."

"About marrying me?" She seemed about to begin laughing.

He hurried on. "No, not that. We talked about you. I could not let him alone. He might have
known. I kept making him talk. I made him tell me about your ideas. I felt I had to know."

Sam faced her.

"He thinks your ideas absurd. I do not. I like them. I like you. I think you are beautiful.
I do not know whether I love you or not, but for weeks I have been thinking of you and clinging
to you and saying over and over to myself, 'I want to live my life with Sue Rainey.' I did
not expect to go at it this way. You know me. What you do not know I will tell you."

"Sam McPherson, you are a wonder," she said, "and I do not know but that I will marry you in
the end, but I can't tell now. I want to know a lot of things. I want to know if you are ready
to believe what I believe and to live for what I want to live."

The horse, growing restless, began tugging at the bridle and she spoke to him sharply. She
plunged into a description of a man she had seen on the lecture platform during her visit to
the East and Sam looked at her with puzzled eyes.

"He was beautiful," she said. "He was past sixty but looked like a boy of twenty-five, not
in his body, but in an air of youth that hung over him. He stood there before the people talking,
quiet, able, efficient. He was clean. He had lived clean, body and mind. He had been companion
and co- worker with William Morris, and once he had been a mine boy in Wales, but he had got
hold of a vision and lived for it. I did not hear what he said, but I kept thinking, 'I want
a man like that.'

"Can you accept my beliefs and live for what I want to live?" she persisted.

Sam looked at the ground. It seemed to him that he was going to lose her, that she would not
marry him.

"I am not accepting beliefs or ends in life blindly," he said stoutly, "but I want them. What
are your beliefs? I want to know. I think I haven't any myself. When I reach for them they
are gone. My mind shifts and changes. I want something solid. I like solid things. I want you."

"When can we meet and talk everything over thoroughly?"

"Now," answered Sam bluntly, some look in her face changing his whole viewpoint. Suddenly it
seemed as though a door had been opened, letting in a strong light upon the darkness of his
mind. His confidence had come back to him. He wanted to strike and keep on striking. The blood
rushed through his body and his brain began working rapidly. He felt sure of ultimate success.

Taking her hand, and leading the horse, he began walking with her along the path. Her hand
trembled in his and as though answering a thought in his mind she looked up at him and said,

"I am not different from other women, although I do not accept your offer. This is a big moment
for me, perhaps the biggest moment of my life. I want you to know that I feel that, though
I do want certain things more than I want you or any other man."

There was a suggestion of tears in her voice and Sam had a feeling that the woman in her wanted
him to take her into his arms, but something within him told him to wait and to help her by
waiting. Like her he wanted something more than the feel of a woman in his arms. Ideas rushed
through his head; he thought that she was going to give him some bigger idea than he had known.
The figure she had drawn for him of the old man who stood on the platform, young and beautiful,
the old boyish need of a purpose in life, the dreams of the last few weeks--all of these were
a part of the eager curiosity in him. They were like hungry little animals waiting to be fed.
"We must have it all out here and now," he told himself. "I must not let myself be swept away
by a rush of feeling and I must not let her be.

"Do not think," he said, "that I haven't tenderness for you. I am filled with it. But I want
to have our talk. I want to know what you expect me to believe and how you want me to live."

He felt her hand stiffen in his.

"Whether or not we are worth while to each other," she added.

"Yes," he said.

And then she began to talk, telling him in a quiet steady voice that steadied something in
him what she wanted to make out of her life. Her idea was one of service to mankind through
children. She had seen girl friends of hers, with whom she had gone to school, grow up and
marry. They had wealth and education, fine well-trained bodies, and they had been married only
to live lives more fully devoted to pleasure. One or two who had married poor men had only
done so to satisfy a passion in themselves, and after marriage had joined the others in the
hungry pursuit of pleasure.

"They do nothing at all," she said, "to repay the world for the things given them, the wealth
and well-trained bodies and the disciplined minds. They go through life day after day and year
after year wasting themselves and come in the end to nothing but indolent, slovenly vanity."

She had thought it all out and had tried to plan for herself a life with other ends, and wanted
a husband in accord with her ideas.

"That isn't so difficult," she said, "I can find a man whom I can control and who will believe
as I believe. My money gives me that power. But I want him to be a real man, a man of ability,
a man who does things for himself, one fitted by his life and his achievements to be the father
of children who do things. And so I began thinking about you. I got the men who come to the
house to talk of you."

She hung her head and laughed like a bashful boy.

"I know much of the story of your early life out in that Iowa town," she said. "I got the story
of your life and your achievements out there from some one who knew you well."

The idea seemed wonderfully simple and beautiful to Sam. It seemed to add tremendously to the
dignity and nobility of his feeling for her. He stopped in the path and swung her about facing
him. They were alone in that end of the park. The soft darkness of the summer night had settled
over them. In the grass at their feet a cricket sang loudly. He made a movement to take her
into his arms.

"It is wonderful," he said.

"Wait," she demanded, putting her hand against his shoulder. "It isn't so simple. I am wealthy.
You are able and you have a kind of undying energy in you. I want to give both my wealth and
your ability to children--our children. That will not be easy for you. It means giving up your
dreams of power. Perhaps I shall lose courage. Women do after two or three have come. You will
have to furnish that. You will have to make a mother of me and keep making a mother of me.
You will have to be a new kind of father with something maternal in you. You will have to be
patient and studious and kind. You will have to think of these things at night instead of thinking
of your own advancement. You will have to live wholly for me because I am to be their mother,
giving me your strength and courage and your good sane outlook on things. And then when they
come you will have to give all these things to them day after day in a thousand little ways."

Sam took her into his arms and for the first time in his memory the hot tears stood in his eyes.

The horse, unattended, wheeled, threw up his head and trotted off down the path. They let him
go, walking along after him hand in hand like two happy children. At the entrance to the park
they came up to him, held by a park policeman. She got on the horse and Sam stood beside her
looking up.

"I'll tell the colonel in the morning," he said.

"What will he say?" she murmured, musingly.

"Damned ingrate," Sam mimicked the colonel's blustering throat tones.

She laughed and picked up the reins. Sam laid his hand on hers.

"How soon?" he asked.

She put her head down near his.

"We'll waste no time," she said, blushing.

And then in the presence of a park policeman, in the street by the entrance to the park with
the people passing up and down, Sam had his first kiss from Sue Rainey's lips.

After she rode away Sam walked. He had no sense of the passing of time, wandering through street
after street, rearranging and readjusting his outlook on life. What she had said had stirred
every vestige of sleeping nobility in him. He thought that he had got hold of the thing he
had unconsciously been seeking all his life. His dreams of control of the Rainey Arms Company
and the other big things he had planned in business seemed, in the light of their talk, so
much nonsense and vanity. "I will live for this! I will live for this!" he kept saying over
and over to himself. He imagined he could see the little white things lying in Sue's arms,
and his new love for her and for what they were to accomplish together ran through him and
hurt him so that he felt like shouting in the darkened streets. He looked up at the sky and
saw the stars and thought they looked down on two new and glorious beings living on the earth.

At a corner he turned and came into a quiet residence street where frame houses stood in the
midst of little green lawns and thoughts of his boyhood in the Iowa town came back to him.
And then his mind moving forward, he remembered nights in the city when he had stolen away
to the arms of women. Hot shame burned in his cheeks and his eyes felt hot.

"I must go to her--I must go to her at her house--now--tonight--and tell her all of these things,
and beg her to forgive me," he thought.

And then the absurdity of such a course striking him he laughed aloud.

"It cleanses me! this cleanses me!" he said to himself.

He remembered the men who had sat about the stove in Wildman's grocery when he was a boy and
the stories they sometimes told. He remembered how he, as a boy in the city, had run through
the crowded streets fleeing from the terror of lust. He began to understand how distorted,
how strangely perverted, his whole attitude toward women and sex had been. "Sex is a solution,
not a menace--it is wonderful," he told himself without knowing fully the meaning of the word
that had sprung to his lips.

When, at last, he turned into Michigan Avenue and went toward his apartment, the late moon
was just mounting the sky and a clock in one of the sleeping houses was striking three.

CHAPTER VI

One evening, six weeks after the talk in the gathering darkness in Jackson Park, Sue Rainey
and Sam McPherson sat on the deck of a Lake Michigan steamer watching the lights of Chicago
blink out in the distance. They had been married that afternoon in Colonel Tom's big house
on the south side; and now they sat on the deck of the boat, being carried out into darkness,
vowed to motherhood and to fatherhood, each more or less afraid of the other. They sat in silence,
looking at the blinking lights and listening to the low voices of their fellow passengers,
also sitting in the chairs along the deck or strolling leisurely about, and to the wash of
the water along the sides of the boat, eager to break down a little reserve that the solemnity
of the marriage service had built up between them.

A picture floated in Sam's mind. He saw Sue, all in white, radiant and wonderful, coming toward
him down a broad stairway, toward him, the newsboy of Caxton, the smuggler of game, the roisterer,
the greedy moneygetter. All during those six weeks he had been waiting for this hour when he
should sit beside the little grey-clad figure, getting from her the help he wanted in the reconstruction
of his life. Without being able to talk as he had thought of talking, he yet felt assured and
easy in his mind. In the moment when she had come down the stairway he had been half overcome
by a feeling of intense shame, a return of the shame that had swept over him that night when
she had given her word and he had walked hour after hour through the streets. It had seemed
to him that from among the guests standing about should arise a voice crying, "Stop! Do not
go on! Let me tell you of this fellow--this McPherson!" And then he had seen her holding to
the arm of swaggering, pretentious Colonel Tom and he had taken her hand to become one with
her, two curious, feverish, strangely different human beings, taking a vow in the name of their
God, with the flowers banked about them and the eyes of people upon them.

When Sam had gone to Colonel Tom the morning after that evening in Jackson Park, there had
been a scene. The old gun maker had blustered and roared and forbidden, pounding on his desk
with his fist. When Sam remained cool and unimpressed, he had stormed out of the room slamming
the door and shouting, "Upstart! Damned upstart!" and Sam had gone smiling back to his desk,
mildly disappointed. "I told Sue he would say 'Ingrate,'" he thought, "I am losing my skill
at guessing just what he will do and say."

The colonel's rage had been short-lived. Within a week he was boasting of Sam to chance callers
as "the best business man in America," and in the face of a solemn promise given Sue was telling
news of the approaching marriage to every newspaper man he knew. Sam suspected him of secretly
calling on the telephone those newspapers whose representatives had not crossed his trail.

During the six waiting weeks there had been little of love making between Sue and Sam. They
had talked instead, or, going into the country or to the parks, had walked under the trees
consumed with a curious eager passion of suspense. The idea she had given him in the park grew
in Sam's brain. To live for the young things that would presently come to them, to be simple,
direct, and natural, like the trees or the beasts of the field, and then to have the native
honesty of such a life illuminated and ennobled by a mutual intelligent purpose to make their
young something finer and better than the things in Nature by the intelligent use of their
own good minds and bodies. In the shops and on the streets the hurrying men and women took
on a new significance to him. He wondered what secret mighty purpose might be in their lives,
and read a newspaper report of an engagement or a marriage with a little jump of the heart.
He looked at the girls and the women at work over the typewriting machines in the office, with
questioning eyes, asking himself why they did not seek marriage openly and determinedly, and
saw a healthy single woman as so much wasted material, as a machine for producing healthy new
life standing idle and unused in the great workshop of the universe. "Marriage is a port, a
beginning, a point of departure, from which men and women go forth upon the real voyage of
life," he told Sue one evening as they walked in the park. "All that goes before is but a preparation,
a building. The pains and the triumphs of all unmarried people are but the good oak planks
being driven into place to make the vessel fit for the real voyage." Or, again, one night when
they were in a rowboat on the lagoon in the park and all about them in the darkness was the
plash of oars in the water, the screams of excited girls, and the sound of voices calling,
he let the boat float in against the shores of a little island and crept along the boat to
kneel, with his head in her lap and whisper, "It is not the love of a woman that grips me,
Sue, but the love of life. I have had a peep into the great mystery. This --this is why we
are here--this justifies us."

Now that she sat beside him, her shoulder against his own, being carried away with him into
darkness and privacy, the personal side of his love for her ran through Sam like a flame and,
turning, he drew her head down upon his shoulder.

"Not yet, Sam," she whispered, "not with these hundreds of people sleeping and drinking and
thinking and going about their affairs almost within touch of our hands."

They got up and walked along the swaying deck. Out of the north the clean wind called to them,
the stars looked down upon them, and in the darkness in the bow of the boat they parted for
the night silently, speechless with happiness and with a dear, unmentioned secret between them.

At dawn they landed at a little lumbering town, where boat, blankets, and camping kit had gone
before. A river flowed down out of the woods passing the town, going under a bridge and turning
the wheel of a sawmill that stood by the shore of the river facing the lake. The clean sweet
smell of the new-cut logs, the song of the saws, the roar of the water tumbling over a dam,
the cries of the blue-shirted lumbermen working among the floating logs above the dam, filled
the morning air, and above the song of the saws sang another song, a breathless, waiting song,
the song of love and of life singing in the hearts of husband and wife.

In a little roughly-built lumberman's hotel they ate breakfast in a room overlooking the river.
The proprietor of the hotel, a large red-faced woman in a clean calico dress, was expecting
them and, having served the breakfast, went out of the room grinning good naturedly and closing
the door behind her. Through the open window they looked at the cold swiftly- flowing river
and at a freckled-faced boy who carried packages wrapped in blankets and put them in a long
canoe tied to a little wharf beside the hotel. They ate and sat staring at each other like
two strange boys, saying nothing. Sam ate little. His heart pounded in his breast.

On the river he sank his paddle deep into the water, pulling against the current. During the
six weeks' waiting in Chicago she had taught him the essentials of the canoeist's art and,
now, as he shot the canoe under the bridge and around a bend of the river out of sight of the
town, a superhuman strength seemed in his arms and back. Before him in the prow of the boat
sat Sue, her straight muscular little back bending and straightening again. By his side rose
towering hills clothed with pine trees, and piles of cut logs lay at the foot of the hills
along the shore.

At sunset they landed in a little cleared space at the foot of a hill and on the top of the
hill, with the wind blowing across it, they made their first camp. Sam brought boughs and spread
them, lapped like feathers in the wings of a bird, and carried blankets up the hill, while
Sue, at the foot, near the overturned boat, built a fire and prepared their first cooked meal
out of doors. In the failing light, Sue got out her rifle and gave Sam his first lesson in
marksmanship, his awkwardness making the lesson half a jest. And then, in the soft stillness
of the young night, with the first stars coming into the sky and the clean cold wind blowing
into their faces, they went arm in arm up the hill under the trees to where the tops of the
trees rolled and pitched like the stormy waters of a great sea before their eyes, and lay down
together for their first long tender embrace.

There is a special kind of fine pleasure in getting one's first knowledge of the great outdoors
in the company of a woman a man loves and to have that woman an expert, with a keen appetite
for the life, adds point and flavour to the experience. In his busy striving, nickel-seeking
boyhood in the town surrounded by hot cornfields, and in his young manhood of scheming and
money hunger in the city, Sam had not thought of vacations and resting places. He had walked
on country roads with John Telfer and Mary Underwood, listening to their talk, absorbing their
ideas, blind and deaf to the little life in the grass, in the leafy branches of the trees and
in the air about him. In clubs, and about hotels and barrooms in the city, he had heard men
talk of life in the open, and had said to himself, "When my time comes I will taste these things."

And now he did taste them, lying on his back on the grass along the river, floating down quiet
little side streams in the moonlight, listening to the night call of birds, or watching the
flight of frightened wild things as he pushed the canoe into the quiet depths of the great
forest about them.

At night, under the little tent they had brought, or beneath the blankets under the stars,
he slept lightly, awakening often to look at Sue lying beside him. Perhaps the wind had blown
a wisp of hair across her face and her breath played with it, tossing it about; perhaps just
the quiet of her expressive little face charmed and held him, so that he turned reluctantly
to sleep again thinking that he might, with pleasure, go on looking at her all night.

For Sue the days also passed lightly. She also awoke in the night and lay looking at the man
sleeping beside her, and once she told Sam that when he awoke she feigned sleep dreading to
rob him of the pleasure that she knew these secret love passages gave to both.

They were not alone in those northern woods. Everywhere along the rivers and on the shores
of little lakes they found people, to Sam a new kind of people, who dropped all the ordinary
things of life, and ran away to the woods and the streams to spend long happy months in the
open. He discovered with surprise that these adventurers were men of modest fortunes, small
manufacturers, skilled workingmen, retail merchants. One with whom he talked was a grocer from
a town in Ohio, and when Sam asked him if the coming to the woods with his family for an eight-weeks
stay did not endanger the success of his business he agreed with Sam that it did, nodding his
head and laughing.

"But there would be a lot more danger in not leaving it," he said, "the danger of having my
boys grow up to be men without my having any real fun with them."

Among all of the people they met Sue passed with a sort of happy freedom that confounded Sam,
as he had formed a habit of thinking of her always as one shut within herself. Many of the
people they saw she knew, and he came to believe that she had chosen the place for their love
making because she admired and held in high favour the lives of these people of the out-of-
doors and wanted her lover to be in some way like them. Out of the solitude of the woods, along
the shores of little lakes, they called to her as she passed, demanding that she come ashore
and show her husband, and among them she sat talking of other seasons and of the inroads of
the lumber men upon their paradise. "The Burnhams were this year on the shores of Grant Lake,
the two school teachers from Pittsburgh would come early in August, the Detroit man with the
crippled son was building a cabin on the shores of Bone River."

Sam sat among them in silence, renewing constantly his admiration for the wonder of Sue's past
life. She, the daughter of Colonel Tom, the woman rich in her own right, to have made her friends
among these people; she, who had been pronounced an enigma by the young men of Chicago, to
have been secretly all of these years the companion and fellow spirit of these campers by the
lakes.

For six weeks they led a wandering, nomadic life in that half wild land, for Sue six weeks
of tender love making, and of the expression of every thought and impulse of her fine nature,
for Sam six weeks of readjustment and freedom, during which he learned to sail a boat, to shoot,
and to get the fine taste of that life into his being.

And then one morning they came again to the little lumber town at the mouth of the river and
sat upon the pier waiting for the Chicago boat. They were bound once more into the world, and
to that life together that was the foundation of their marriage and that was to be the end
and aim of their two lives.

If Sam's life from boyhood had been, on the whole, barren and empty of many of the sweeter
things, his life during the next year was strikingly full and complete. In the office he had
ceased being the pushing upstart tramping on the toes of tradition and had become the son of
Colonel Tom, the voter of Sue's big stock holdings, the practical, directing head and genius
of the destinies of the company. Jack Prince's loyalty had been rewarded, and a huge advertising
campaign made the name and merits of the Rainey Arms Company's wares known to all reading Americans.
The muzzles of Rainey-Whittaker rifles, revolvers, and shotguns looked threateningly out at
one from the pages of the great popular magazines, brown fur-clad hunters did brave deeds before
one's eyes, kneeling upon snow-topped crags preparing to speed winged death to waiting mountain
sheep; huge open- mouthed bears rushed down from among the type at the top of the pages and
seemed about to devour cool deliberate sportsmen who stood undaunted, swinging their trusty
Rainey-Whittakers into place, and presidents, explorers, and Texas gun fighters loudly proclaimed
the merits of Rainey- Whittakers to a gun-buying world. It was for Sam and for Colonel Tom
a time of big dividends, mechanical progress, and contentment.

Sam stayed diligently at work in the offices and in the shops, but kept within himself a reserve
of strength and resolution that might have gone into the work. With Sue he took up golf and
morning rides on horseback, and with Sue he sat during the long evenings, reading aloud, absorbing
her ideas and her beliefs. Sometimes for days they were like two children, going off together
to walk on country roads and to sleep in country hotels. On these walks they went hand in hand
or, bantering each other, raced down long hills to lie panting in the grass by the roadside
when they were out of breath.

Near the end of the first year she told him one night of the realisation of their hopes and
they sat through the evening alone by the fire in her room, filled with the white wonder of
it, renewing to each other all the fine vows of their early love-making days.

Sam never succeeded in recapturing the flavour of those days. Happiness is a thing so vague,
so indefinite, so dependent on a thousand little turns of the events of the day, that it only
visits the most fortunate and at rare intervals, but Sam thought that he and Sue touched almost
ideal happiness constantly during that time. There were weeks and even months of their first
year together that later passed out of Sam's memory entirely, leaving only a sense of completeness
and well being. He could remember, perhaps, a winter walk in the moonlight by the frozen lake,
or a visitor who sat and talked an evening away by their fire. But at the end he had to come
back to this: that something sang in his heart all day long and that the air tasted better,
the stars shone more brightly, and the wind and the rain and the hail upon the window panes
sang more sweetly in his ears. He and the woman who lived with him had wealth, position, and
infinite delight in the presence and the persons of each other, and a great idea burned like
a lamp in a window at the end of the road they travelled.

Meanwhile, in the world about him events came and went. A president was elected, the grey wolves
were being hunted out of the Chicago city council, and a strong rival to his company flourished
in his own city. In other days he would have been down upon this rival fighting, planning,
working for its destruction. Now he sat at Sue's feet, dreaming and talking to her of the brood
that under their care should grow into wonderful reliant men and women. When Lewis, the talented
sales manager of the Edwards Arms Company, got the business of a Kansas City jobber, he smiled,
wrote a sharp letter to his man in that territory, and went for an afternoon of golf with Sue.
He had completely and wholly accepted Sue's conception of life. "We have wealth for any emergency,"
he said to himself, "and we will live our lives for service to mankind through the children
that will presently come into our house."

After their marriage Sam found that Sue, for all her apparent coldness and indifference, had
in Chicago, as in the northern woods, her own little circle of men and women. Some of these
people Sam had met during the engagement, and now they began gradually coming to the house
for an evening with the McPhersons. Sometimes there would be several of them for a quiet dinner
at which there was much good talk, and after which Sue and Sam sat for half the night, continuing
some vein of thought brought to them. Among the people who came to them, Sam shone resplendent.
In some indefinable way he thought they paid court to him and the thought flattered him immensely.
The college professor who had talked brilliantly through an evening turned to Sam for approval
of his conclusions, a writer of tales of cowboy life asked him to help him over a difficulty
in the stock market, and a tall black-haired painter paid him the rare compliment of repeating
one of Sam's remarks as his own. It was as though, in spite of their talk, they thought him
the most gifted of them all, and for a time he was puzzled by their attitude. Jack Prince came,
sat at one of the dinner parties, and explained.

"You have got what they want and cannot get--the money," he said.

After the evening when Sue told him the great news they gave a dinner. It was a sort of welcoming
party for the coming guest, and, while the people at the table ate and talked, Sue and Sam,
from opposite ends of the table, lifted high their glasses and, looking into each other's eyes,
drank off the health of him who was to come, the first of the great family, the family that
was to have two lives lived for its success.

At the table sat Colonel Tom with his broad white shirt front, his white, pointed beard, and
his grandiloquent flow of talk; at Sue's side sat Jack Prince, pausing in his open admiration
of Sue to cast an eye on the handsome New York girl at Sam's end of the table or to puncture,
with a flash of his terse common sense, some balloon of theory launched by Williams of the
University, who sat on the other side of Sue; the artist, who hoped for a commission to paint
Colonel Tom, sat opposite him bewailing the dying out of fine old American families; and a
serious-faced little German scientist sat beside Colonel Tom smiling as the artist talked.
The man, Sam fancied, was laughing at them both, perhaps at all of them. He did not mind. He
looked at the scientist and at the other faces up and down the table and then at Sue. He saw
her directing and leading the talk; he saw the play of muscles about her strong neck and the
fine firmness of her straight little body, and his eyes grew moist and a lump came into his
throat at the thought of the secret that lay between them.

And then his mind ran back to another night in Caxton when first he sat eating among strange
people at Freedom Smith's table. He saw again the tomboy girl and the sturdy boy and the lantern
swinging in Freedom's hand in the close little stable; he saw the absurd housepainter trying
to blow the bugle in the street; and the mother talking to her boy of death through the summer
evening; the fat foreman making the record of his loves on the walls of his room, the narrow-faced
commission man rubbing his hands before a group of Greek hucksters, and then this--this home
with its safety and its secret high aim and him sitting there at the head of it all. Like the
novelist, it seemed to him that he should admire and bow his head before the romance of destiny.
He thought his station, his wife, his country, his end in life, when rightly seen, the very
apex of life on the earth, and to him in his pride it seemed that he was in some way the master
and maker of it all.

CHAPTER VII

Late one evening, some weeks after the McPhersons had given the dinner party in secret celebration
of the future arrival of what was to be the first of the great family, they came together down
the steps of a north side house to their waiting carriage. They had spent, Sam thought, a delightful
evening. The Grovers were people of whose friendship he was particularly proud and since his
marriage with Sue he had taken her often for an evening to the house of the venerable surgeon.
Doctor Grover was a scholar, a man of note in the medical world, and a rapid and absorbing
talker and thinker on any subject that aroused his interest. A certain youthful enthusiasm
in his outlook on life had attracted to him the devotion of Sue, who, since meeting him through
Sam, had counted him a marked addition to their little group of friends. His wife, a white-
haired, plump little woman, was, though apparently somewhat diffident, in reality his intellectual
equal and companion, and Sue in a quiet way had taken her as a model in her own effort toward
complete wifehood.

During the evening, spent in a rapid exchange of opinions and ideas between the two men, Sue
had sat in silence. Once when he looked at her Sam thought that he had surprised an annoyed
look in her eyes and was puzzled by it. During the remainder of the evening her eyes refused
to meet his and she looked instead at the floor, a flush mounting her cheeks.

At the door of the carriage Frank, Sue's coachman, stepped on the hem of her gown and tore
it. The tear was slight, the incident Sam thought entirely unavoidable, and as much due to
a momentary clumsiness on the part of Sue as to the awkwardness of Frank. The man had for years
been a loyal servant and a devoted admirer of Sue's.

Sam laughed and taking Sue by the arm started to help her in at the carriage door.

"Too much gown for an athlete," he said, pointlessly.

In a flash Sue turned and faced the coachman.

"Awkward brute," she said, through her teeth.

Sam stood on the sidewalk dumb with astonishment as Frank turned and climbed to his seat without
waiting to close the carriage door. He felt as he might have felt had he, as a boy, heard profanity
from the lips of his mother. The look in Sue's eyes as she turned them on Frank struck him
like a blow and in a moment his whole carefully built-up conception of her and of her character
had been shaken. He had an impulse to slam the carriage door after her and walk home.

They drove home in silence, Sam feeling as though he rode beside a new and strange being. In
the light of passing street lamps he could see her face held straight ahead and her eyes staring
stonily at the curtain in front. He didn't want to reproach her; he wanted to take hold of
her arm and shake her. "I should like to take the whip from in front of Frank's seat and give
her a sound beating," he told himself.

At the house Sue jumped out of the carriage and, running past him in at the door, closed it
after her. Frank drove off toward the stables and when Sam went into the house he found Sue
standing half way up the stairs leading to her room and waiting for him.

"I presume you do not know that you have been openly insulting me all evening," she cried.
"Your beastly talk there at the Grovers--it was unbearable--who are these women? Why parade
your past life before me?"

Sam said nothing. He stood at the foot of the stairs and looked up at her and then, turning,
just as she, running up the stairs, slammed the door of her own room, he went into the library.
A wood fire burned in the grate and he sat down and lighted his pipe. He did not try to think
the thing out. He felt that he was in the presence of a lie and that the Sue who had lived
in his mind and in his affections no longer existed, that in her place there was this other
woman, this woman who had insulted her own servant and had perverted and distorted the meaning
of his talk during the evening.

Sitting by the fire filling and refilling his pipe, Sam went carefully over every word, gesture,
and incident of the evening at the Grovers and could get hold of no part of it that he thought
might in fairness serve as an excuse for the outburst. In the upper part of the house he could
hear Sue moving restlessly about and he had satisfaction in the thought that her mind was punishing
her for so strange a seizure. He and Grover had perhaps been somewhat carried away, he told
himself; they had talked of marriage and its meaning and had both declared somewhat hotly against
the idea that the loss of virginity in women was in any sense a bar to honourable marriage,
but he had said nothing that he thought could have been twisted into an insult to Sue or to
Mrs. Grover. He had thought the talk rather good and clearly thought out and had come out of
the house exhilarated and secretly preening himself with the thought that he had talked unusually
forcefully and well. In any event what had been said had been said before in Sue's presence
and he thought that he could remember her having, in the past, expressed similar ideas with
enthusiasm.

Hour after hour he sat in the chair before the dying fire. He dozed and his pipe dropped from
his hand and fell upon the stone hearth. A kind of dumb misery and anger was in him as over
and over endlessly his mind kept reviewing the events of the evening.

"What has made her think she can do that to me?" he kept asking himself.

He remembered certain strange silences and hard looks from her eyes during the past weeks,
silences and looks that in the light of the events of the evening became pregnant with meaning.

"She has a temper, a beast of a temper. Why shouldn't she have been square and told me?" he
asked himself.

The clock had struck three when the library door opened quietly and Sue, clad in a dressing
gown through which the new roundness of her lithe little figure was plainly apparent, came
into the room. She ran across to him and putting her head down on his knee wept bitterly.

"Oh, Sam!" she said, "I think I am going insane. I have been hating you as I have not hated
since I was an evil-tempered child. A thing I worked years to suppress in me has come back.
I have been hating myself and the baby. For days I have been fighting the feeling in me, and
now it has come out and perhaps you have begun hating me. Can you love me again? Will you ever
forget the meanness and the cheapness of it? You and poor innocent Frank--Oh, Sam, the devil
was in me!"

Reaching down, Sam took her into his arms and cuddled her like a child. A story he had heard
of the vagaries of women at such times came back to him and was as a light illuminating the
darkness of his mind.

"I understand now," he said. "It is a part of the burden you carry for us both."

For some weeks after the outbreak at the carriage door events ran smoothly in the McPherson
house. One day as he stood in the stable door Frank came round the corner of the house and,
looking up sheepishly from under his cap, said to Sam: "I understand about the missus. It is
the baby coming. We have had four of them at our house," and Sam, nodding his head, turned
and began talking rapidly of his plans to replace the carriages with automobiles.

But in the house, in spite of the clearing up of the matter of Sue's ugliness at the Grovers,
a subtle change had taken place in the relationship of the two. Although they were together
facing the first of the events that were to be like ports-of-call in the great voyage of their
lives, they were not facing it with the same mutual understanding and kindly tolerance with
which they had faced smaller things in the past--a disagreement over the method of shooting
a rapid in a river or the entertainment of an undesirable guest. The inclination to fits of
temper loosens and disarranges all the little wires of life. The tune will not get itself played.
One stands waiting for the discord, strained, missing the harmony. It was so with Sam. He began
feeling that he must keep a check upon his tongue and that things of which they had talked
with great freedom six months earlier now annoyed and irritated his wife when brought into
an after-dinner discussion. To Sam, who, during his life with Sue, had learned the joy of free,
open talk upon any subject that came into his mind and whose native interest in life and in
the motives of men and women had blossomed in the large leisure and independence of the last
year, this was trying. It was, he thought, like trying to hold free and open communion with
the people of an orthodox family, and he fell into a habit of prolonged silences, a habit that
later, he found, once formed, unbelievably hard to break.

One day in the office a situation arose that seemed to demand Sam's presence in Boston on a
certain date. For months he had been carrying on a trade war with some of the eastern manufacturers
in his line and an opportunity for the settlement of the trouble in a way advantageous to himself
had, he thought, arisen. He wanted to handle the matter himself and went home to explain to
Sue. It was at the end of a day when nothing had occurred to irritate her and she agreed with
him that he should not be compelled to trust so important a matter to another.

"I am no child, Sam. I will take care of myself," she said, laughing.

Sam wired his New York man asking him to make the arrangements for the meeting in Boston and
picked up a book to spend the evening reading aloud to her.

And then, coming home the next evening he found her in tears and when he tried to laugh away
her fears she flew into a black fit of anger and ran out of the room.

Sam went to the 'phone and called his New York man, thinking to instruct him in regard to the
conference in Boston and to give up his own plans for the trip. When he had got his man on
the wire, Sue, who had been standing outside the door, rushed in and put her hand over the
mouthpiece of the 'phone.

"Sam! Sam!" she cried. "Do not give up the trip! Scold me! Beat me! Do anything, but do not
let me go on making a fool of myself and destroying your peace of mind! I shall be miserable
if you stay at home because of what I have said!"

Over the 'phone came the insistent voice of Central and putting her hand aside Sam talked to
his man, letting the engagement stand and making some detail of the conference answer as his
need of calling.

Again Sue was repentant and again after her tears they sat before the fire until his train
time, talking like lovers.

To Buffalo in the morning came a wire from her.

"Come back. Let business go. Cannot stand it," she had wired.

While he sat reading the wire the porter brought another.

"Please, Sam, pay no attention to any wire from me. I am all right and only half a fool."

Sam was irritated. "It is deliberate pettiness and weakness," he thought, when an hour later
the porter brought another wire demanding his immediate return. "The situation calls for drastic
action and perhaps one good stinging reproof will stop it for all time."

Going into the buffet car he wrote a long letter calling her attention to the fact that a certain
amount of freedom of action was due him, and saying that he intended to act upon his own judgment
in the future and not upon her impulses.

Having begun to write Sam went on and on. He was not interrupted, no shadow crossed the face
of his beloved to tell him he was hurting and he said all that was in his mind to say. Little
sharp reproofs that had come into his mind but that had been left unsaid now got themselves
said and when he had dumped his overloaded mind into the letter he sealed and mailed it at
a passing station.

Within an hour after the letter had left his hands Sam regretted it. He thought of the little
woman bearing the burden for them both, and things Grover had told him of the unhappiness of
women in her condition came back to haunt his mind so that he wrote and sent off to her a wire
asking her not to read the letter he had mailed and assuring her that he would hurry through
the Boston conference and get back to her at once.

When Sam returned he knew that in an evil moment Sue had opened and read the letter sent from
the train and was surprised and hurt by the knowledge. The act seemed like a betrayal. He said
nothing, going about his work with a troubled mind and watching with growing anxiety her alternate
fits of white anger and fearful remorse. He thought her growing worse daily and became alarmed
for her health.

And, then, after a talk with Grover he began to spend more and more time with her, forcing
her to take with him daily, long walks in the open air. He tried valiantly to keep her mind
fixed on cheerful things and went to bed happy and relieved when a day ended that did not bring
a stormy passage between them.

There were days during that period when Sam thought himself near insanity. With a light in
her grey eyes that was maddening Sue would take up some minor thing, a remark he had made or
a passage he had quoted from some book, and in a dead, level, complaining tone would talk of
it until his head reeled and his fingers ached from the gripping of his hands to keep control
of himself. After such a day he would steal off by himself and, walking rapidly, would try
through pure physical fatigue to force his mind to give up the remembrance of the persistent,
complaining voice. At times he would give way to fits of anger and strew impotent oaths along
the silent street, or, in another mood, would mumble and talk to himself, praying for strength
and courage to keep his own head during the ordeal through which he thought they were passing
together. And when he returned from such a walk and from such a struggle with himself it often
occurred that he would find her waiting in the arm chair before the fire in her room, her mind
clear and her little face wet with the tears of her repentance.

And then the struggle ended. With Doctor Grover it had been arranged that Sue should be taken
to the hospital for the great event, and they drove there hurriedly one night through the quiet
streets, the recurring pains gripping Sue and her hands clutching his. An exalted cheerfulness
had hold of them. Face to face with the actual struggle for the new life Sue was transfigured.
Her voice rang with triumph and her eyes glistened.

"I am going to do it," she cried; "my black fear is gone. I shall give you a child--a man child.
I shall succeed, my man Sam. You shall see. It will be beautiful."

When the pain gripped she gripped at his hand, and a spasm of physical sympathy ran through
him. He felt helpless and ashamed of his helplessness.

At the entrance to the hospital grounds she put her face down upon his knees so that the hot
tears ran through his hands.

"Poor, poor old Sam, it has been horrible for you."

At the hospital Sam walked up and down in the corridor through the swinging doors at the end
of which she had been taken. Every vestige of regret for the trying months now lying behind
had passed, and he paced up and down the corridor feeling that he had come to one of those
huge moments when a man's brain, his grasp of affairs, his hopes and plans for the future,
all of the little details and trivialities of his life, halt, and he waits anxious, breathless,
expectant. He looked at a little clock on a table at the end of the corridor, half expecting
it to stop also and wait with him. His marriage hour that had seemed so big and vital seemed
now, in the quiet corridor, with the stone floor and the silent white- clad, rubber-shod nurses
passing up and down and in the presence of this greater event, to have shrunk enormously. He
walked up and down peering at the clock, looking at the swinging door and biting at the stem
of his empty pipe.

And then through the swinging door came Grover.

"We can get the child, Sam, but to get it we shall have to take a chance with her. Do you want
to do that? Do not wait. Decide."

Sam sprang past him toward the door.

"You bungler," he cried, and his voice rang through the long quiet corridor. "You do not know
what this means. Let me go."

Doctor Grover, catching him by the arm, swung him about. The two men stood facing each other.

"You stay here," said the doctor, his voice remaining quiet and firm; "I will attend to things.
Your going in there would be pure folly now. Now answer me--do you want to take the chance?"

"No! No!" Sam shouted. "No! I want her--Sue--alive and well, back through that door."

A cold gleam came into his eyes and he shook his fist before the doctor's face.

"Do not try deceiving me about this. By God, I will----"

Turning, Doctor Grover ran back through the swinging door leaving Sam staring blankly at his
back. A nurse, one whom he had seen in Doctor Grover's office, came out of the door and taking
his arm, walked beside him up and down the corridor. Sam put his arm around her shoulder and
talked. An illusion that it was necessary to comfort her came to him.

"Do not worry," he said. "She will be all right. Grover will take care of her. Nothing can
happen to little Sue."

The nurse, a small, sweet-faced, Scotch woman, who knew and admired Sue, wept. Some quality
in his voice had touched the woman in her and the tears ran in a little stream down her cheeks.
Sam continued talking, the woman's tears helping him to regain his grip upon himself.

"My mother is dead," he said, an old sorrow revisiting him. "I wish that you, like Mary Underwood,
would be a new mother to me."

When the time came that he could be taken to the room where Sue lay, his self-possession had
returned to him and his mind had begun blaming the little dead stranger for the unhappiness
of the past months and for the long separation from what he thought was the real Sue. Outside
the door of the room into which she had been taken he stopped, hearing her voice, thin and
weak, talking to Grover.

"Unfit--Sue McPherson unfit," said the voice, and Sam thought it was filled with an infinite
weariness.

He ran through the door and dropped on his knees by her bed. She turned her eyes to him smiling
bravely.

"The next time we'll make it," she said.

The second child born to the young McPhersons arrived out of time. Again Sam walked, this time
through the corridor of his own house and without the consoling presence of the sweet-faced
Scotch woman, and again he shook his head at Doctor Grover who came to him consoling and reassuring.

After the death of the second child Sue lay for months in bed. In his arms, in her own room,
she wept openly in the presence of Grover and the nurses, crying out against her unfitness.
For several days she refused to see Colonel Tom, harbouring in her mind the notion that he
was in some way responsible for her physical inability to bear living children, and when she
got up from her bed, she remained for months white and listless but grimly determined upon
another attempt for the little life she so wanted to feel in her arms.

During the days of her carrying the second baby she had again the fierce ugly attacks of temper
that had shattered Sam's nerves, but having learned to understand, he went quietly about his
work, trying as far as in him lay to close his ears to the stinging, hurtful things she sometimes
said; and the third time, it was agreed between them that if they were again unsuccessful they
would turn their minds to other things.

"If we do not succeed this time we might as well count ourselves through with each other for
good," she said one day in one of the fits of cold anger that were a part of child bearing
with her.

That second night when Sam walked in the hospital corridor he was beside himself. He felt like
a young recruit called to face an unseen enemy and to stand motionless and inactive in the
presence of the singing death that ran through the air. He remembered a story, told when he
was a child by a fellow soldier who had come to visit his father, of the prisoners at Andersonville
creeping in the darkness past armed sentries to a little pool of stagnant water beyond the
dead line, and felt that he too was creeping unarmed and helpless in the neighbourhood of death.
In a conference at his house between the three some weeks before, it had been decided, after
tearful insistence on the part of Sue and a stand on the part of Grover, who declared that
he would not remain on the case unless permitted to use his own judgment, that an operation
should be performed.

"Take the chances that need be taken," Sam had said to Grover after the conference; "she will
never stand another defeat. Give her the child."

In the corridor it seemed to Sam that hours had passed and still he stood motionless waiting.
His feet felt cold and he had the impression that they were wet although the night was dry
and a moon shone outside. When, from a distant part of the hospital, a groan reached his ears
he shook with fright and had an inclination to cry out. Two young interns clad in white passed.

"Old Grover is doing a Caesarian section," said one of them; "he is getting out of date. Hope
he doesn't bungle it."

In Sam's ears rang the remembrance of Sue's voice, the Sue who that first time had gone into
the room behind the swinging doors with the determined smile on her face. He thought he could
see again the white face looking up from the wheeled cot on which they had taken her through
the door.

"I am afraid, Dr. Grover--I am afraid I am unfit," he had heard her say as the door closed.

And then Sam did a thing for which he cursed himself the rest of his life. On an impulse, and
maddened by the intolerable waiting, he walked to the swinging doors and, pushing them open,
stepped into the operating room where Grover was at work upon Sue.

The room was long and narrow, with floors, walls and ceiling of white cement. A great glaring
light, suspended from the ceiling, threw its rays directly down on a white-clad figure lying
on a white metal operating table. On the walls of the room were other glaring lights set in
shining glass reflectors. And, here and there through an intense, expectant atmosphere, moved
and stood silently a group of men and women, faceless, hairless, with only their strangely
vivid eyes showing through the white masks that covered their faces.

Sam, standing motionless by the door, looked about with wild, half-seeing eyes. Grover worked
rapidly and silently, taking from time to time little shining instruments from a swinging table
close at his hand. The nurse standing beside him looked up toward the light and began calmly
threading a needle. And in a white basin on a little stand at the side of the room lay the
last of Sue's tremendous efforts toward new life, the last of their dreams of the great family.

Sam closed his eyes and fell. His head, striking against the wall, aroused him and he struggled
to his feet.

Without stopping his work, Grover began swearing.

"Damn it, man, get out of here."

Sam groped with his hand for the door. One of the white-clad, ghoulish figures started toward
him. And then with his head reeling and his eyes closed he backed through the door and, running
along the corridor and down a flight of broad stairs, reached the open air and darkness. He
had no doubt of Sue's death.

"She is gone," he muttered, hurrying bareheaded along the deserted streets.

Through street after street he ran. Twice he came out upon the shores of the lake, and, then
turning, went back into the heart of the city through streets bathed in the warm moonlight.
Once he turned quickly at a corner and stepping into a vacant lot stood behind a high board
fence as a policeman strolled along the street. Into his head came the idea that he had killed
Sue and that the blue-clad figure walking with heavy tread on the stone pavement was seeking
him to take him back to where she lay white and lifeless. Again he stopped, before a little
frame drugstore on a corner, and sitting down on the steps before it cursed God openly and
defiantly like an angry boy defying his father. Some instinct led him to look at the sky through
the tangle of telegraph wires overhead.

"Go on and do what you dare!" he cried. "I will not follow you now. I shall never try to find
you after this."

Presently he began laughing at himself for the instinct that had led him to look at the sky
and to shout out his defiance and, getting up, wandered on. In his wanderings he came to a
railroad track where a freight train groaned and rattled over a crossing. When he came up to
it he jumped upon an empty coal car, falling as he climbed, and cutting his face upon the sharp
pieces of coal that lay scattered about the bottom of the car.

The train ground along slowly, stopping occasionally, the engine shrieking hysterically.

After a time he got out of the car and dropped to the ground. On all sides of him were marshes,
the long rank marsh grasses rolling and tossing in the moonlight. When the train had passed
he followed it, walking stumblingly along. As he walked, following the blinking lights at the
end of the train, he thought of the scene in the hospital and of Sue lying dead for that--that
ping livid and shapeless on the table under the lights.

Where the solid ground ran up to the tracks Sam sat down under a tree. Peace came over him.
"This is the end of things," he thought, and was like a tired child comforted by its mother.
He thought of the sweet-faced nurse who had walked with him that other time in the corridor
of the hospital and who had wept because of his fears, and then of the night when he had felt
the throat of his father between his fingers in the squalid little kitchen. He ran his hands
along the ground. "Good old ground," he said. A sentence came into his mind followed by the
figure of John Telfer striding, stick in hand, along a dusty road. "Here is spring come and
time to plant out flowers in the grass," he said aloud. His face felt swollen and sore from
the fall in the freight car and he lay down on the ground under a tree and slept.

When he woke it was morning and grey clouds were drifting across the sky. Within sight, down
a road, a trolley car went past into the city. Before him, in the midst of the marsh, lay a
low lake, and a raised walk, with boats tied to the posts on which it stood, ran down to the
water. He went down the walk, bathed his bruised face in the water, and boarding a car went
back into the city.

In the morning air a new thought took possession of him. The wind ran along a dusty road beside
the car track, picking up little handfuls of dust and playfully throwing them about. He had
a strained, eager feeling like some one listening for a faint call out of the distance.

"To be sure," he thought, "I know what it is, it is my wedding day. I am to marry Sue Rainey
to-day."

At the house he found Grover and Colonel Tom standing in the breakfast room. Grover looked
at his swollen, distorted face. His voice trembled.

"Poor devil!" he said. "You have had a night!"

Sam laughed and slapped Colonel Tom on the shoulder.

"We will have to begin getting ready," he said. "The wedding is at ten. Sue will be getting
anxious."

Grover and Colonel Tom took him by the arm and began leading him up the stairs, Colonel Tom
weeping like a woman.

"Silly old fool," thought Sam.

When, two weeks later, he again opened his eyes to consciousness Sue sat beside his bed in
a reclining chair, her little thin white hand in his.

"Get the baby!" he cried, believing anything possible. "I want to see the baby!"

She laid her head down on the pillow.

"It was gone when you saw it," she said, and put an arm about his neck.

When the nurse came back she found them, their heads together upon the pillow, crying weakly
like two tired children.

CHAPTER VIII

The blow given the plan of life so carefully thought out and so eagerly accepted by the young
McPhersons threw them back upon themselves. For several years they had been living upon a hill
top, taking themselves very seriously and more than a little preening themselves with the thought
that they were two very unusual and thoughtful people engaged upon a worthy and ennobling enterprise.
Sitting in their corner immersed in admiration of their own purposes and in the thoughts of
the vigorous, disciplined, new life they were to give the world by the combined efficiency
of their two bodies and minds they were, at a word and a shake of the head from Doctor Grover,
compelled to remake the outline of their future together.

All about them the rush of life went on, vast changes were impending in the industrial life
of the people, cities were doubling and tripling their population, a war was being fought,
and the flag of their country flew in the ports of strange seas, while American boys pushed
their way through the tangled jungles of strange lands carrying in their hands Rainey- Whittaker
rifles. And in a huge stone house, set in a broad expanse of green lawns near the shores of
Lake Michigan, Sam McPherson sat looking at his wife, who in turn looked at him. He was trying,
as she also was trying, to adjust himself to the cheerful acceptance of their new prospect
of a childless life.

Looking at Sue across the dinner table or seeing her straight, wiry body astride a horse riding
beside him through the parks, it seemed to Sam unbelievable that a childless womanhood was
ever to be her portion, and more than once he had an inclination to venture again upon an effort
for the success of their hopes. But when he remembered her still white face that night in the
hospital, her bitter, haunting cry of defeat, he turned with a shudder from the thought, feeling
that he could not go with her again through that ordeal; that he could not again allow her
to look forward through weeks and months toward the little life that never came to lie upon
her breast or to laugh up into her face.

And yet Sam, son of that Jane McPherson who had won the admiration of the men of Caxton by
her ceaseless efforts to keep her family afloat and clean handed, could not sit idly by, living
upon the income of his own and Sue's money. The stirring, forward-moving world called to him;
he looked about him at the broad, significant movements in business and finance, at the new
men coming into prominence and apparently finding a way for the expression of new big ideas,
and felt his youth stirring in him and his mind reaching out to new projects and new ambitions.

Given the necessity for economy and a hard long-drawn-out struggle for a livelihood and competence,
Sam could conceive of living his life with Sue and deriving something like gratification from
just her companionship, and her partnership in his efforts--here and there during the waiting
years he had met men who had found such gratification--a foreman in the shops or a tobacconist
from whom he bought his cigars--but for himself he felt that he had gone with Sue too far upon
another road to turn that way now with anything like mutual zeal or interest. At bottom, his
mind did not run strongly toward the idea of the love of women as an end in life; he had loved,
and did love, Sue with something approaching religious fervour, but the fervour was more than
half due to the ideas she had given him and to the fact that with him she was to have been
the instrument for the realisation of those ideas. He was a man with children in his loins
and he had given up his struggles for business eminence for the sake of preparing himself for
a kind of noble fatherhood of children, many children, strong children, fit gifts to the world
for two exceptionally favoured lives. In all of his talks with Sue this idea had been present
and dominant. He had looked about him and in the arrogance of his youth and in the pride of
his good body and mind had condemned all childless marriages as a selfish waste of good lives.
With her he had agreed that such lives were without point and purpose. Now he remembered that
in the days of her audacity and daring she had more than once expressed the hope that in case
of a childless issue to their marriage one or the other of them would have the courage to cut
the knot that tied them and venture into another effort at right living at any cost.

In the months after Sue's last recovery, and during the long evenings, as they sat together
or walked under the stars in the park, the thought of these talks was often in Sam's mind and
he found himself beginning to speculate on her present attitude and to wonder how bravely she
would meet the idea of a separation. In the end he decided that no such thought was in her
mind, that face to face with the tremendous actuality she clung to him with a new dependence,
and a new need of his companionship. The conviction of the absolute necessity of children as
a justification for a man and woman living together had, he thought, burned itself more deeply
into his brain than into hers; to him it clung, coming back again and again to his mind, causing
him to turn here and there restlessly, making readjustments, seeking new light. The old gods
being dead he sought new gods.

In the meantime he sat in his house facing his wife, losing himself in the books recommended
to him years before by Janet, thinking his own thoughts. Often in the evening he would look
up from his book or from his preoccupied staring at the fire to find her eyes looking at him.

"Talk, Sam; talk," she would say; "do not sit there thinking."

Or at another time she would come to his room at night and putting her head down on the pillow
beside his would spend hours planning, weeping, begging him to give her again his love, his
old fervent, devoted love.

This Sam tried earnestly and honestly to do, going with her for long walks when the new call,
the business had begun to make to him, would have kept him at his desk, reading aloud to her
in the evening, urging her to shake off her old dreams and to busy herself with new work and
new interests.

Through the days in the office he went in a kind of half stupor. An old feeling of his boyhood
coming back to him, it seemed to him, as it had seemed when he walked aimlessly through the
streets of Caxton after the death of his mother, that there remained something to be done,
an accounting to be made. Even at his desk with the clatter of typewriters in his ears and
the piles of letters demanding his attention, his mind slipped back to the days of his courtship
with Sue and to those days in the north woods when life had beat strong within him, and every
young, wild thing, every new growth renewed the dream that filled his being. Sometimes on the
street, or walking in the park with Sue, the cries of children at play cut across the sombre
dulness of his mind and he shrank from the sound and a kind of bitter resentment took possession
of him. When he looked covertly at Sue she talked of other things, apparently unconscious of
his thoughts.

Then a new phase of life presented itself. To his surprise he found himself looking with more
than passing interest at women in the streets, and an old hunger for the companionship of strange
women came back to him, in some way coarsened and materialised. One evening at the theatre
a woman, a friend of Sue's and the childless wife of a business friend of his own, sat beside
him. In the darkness of the playhouse her shoulder nestled down against his. In the excitement
of a crisis on the stage her hand slipped into his and her fingers clutched and held his fingers.

Animal desire seized and shook him, a feeling without sweetness, brutal, making his eyes burn.
When between the acts the theatre was again flooded with light he looked up guiltily to meet
another pair of eyes equally filled with guilty hunger. A challenge had been given and received.

In their car, homeward bound, Sam put the thoughts of the woman away from him and taking Sue
in his arms prayed silently for some help against he knew not what.

"I think I will go to Caxton in the morning and have a talk with Mary Underwood," he said.

After his return from Caxton Sam set about finding some new interest to occupy Sue's mind.
He had spent an afternoon talking to Valmore, Freedom Smith, and Telfer and thought there was
a kind of flatness in their jokes and in their ageing comments on each other. Then he had gone
from them for his talk with Mary. Half through the night they had talked, Sam getting forgiveness
for not writing and getting also a long friendly lecture on his duty toward Sue. He thought
she had in some way missed the point. She had seemed to suppose that the loss of the children
had fallen singly upon Sue. She had not counted upon him, and he had depended upon her doing
just that. He had come as a boy to his mother wanting to talk of himself and she had wept at
the thought of the childless wife and had told him how to set about making her happy.

"Well, I will set about it," he thought on the train coming home; "I will find for her this
new interest and make her less dependent upon me. Then I also will take hold anew and work
out for myself a programme for a way of life."

One afternoon when he came home from the office he found Sue filled indeed with a new idea.
With glowing cheeks she sat beside him through the evening and talked of the beauties of a
life devoted to social service.

"I have been thinking things out," she said, her eyes shining. "We must not allow ourselves
to become sordid. We must keep to the vision. We must together give the best in our lives and
our fortunes to mankind. We must make ourselves units in the great modern movements for social
uplift."

Sam looked at the fire and a chill feeling of doubt ran through him. He could not see himself
as a unit in anything. His mind did not run out toward the thought of being one of the army
of philanthropists or rich social uplifters he had met talking and explaining in the reading
rooms of clubs. No answering flame burned in his heart as it had burned that evening by the
bridle path in Jackson Park when she had expounded another idea. But the thought of a need
of new interest for her coming to him, he turned to her smiling.

"It sounds all right but I know nothing of such things," he said.

After that evening Sue began to get a hold upon herself. The old fire came back into her eyes
and she went about the house with a smile upon her face and talked through the evenings to
her silent, attentive husband of the life of usefulness, the full life. One day she told him
of her election to the presidency of a society for the rescue of fallen women, and he began
seeing her name in the newspapers in connection with various charity and civic movements. At
the house a new sort of men and women began appearing at the dinner table; a strangely earnest,
feverish, half fanatical people, Sam thought, with an inclination toward corsetless dresses
and uncut hair, who talked far into the night and worked themselves into a sort of religious
zeal over what they called their movement. Sam found them likely to run to startling statements,
noticed that they sat on the edges of their chairs when they talked, and was puzzled by their
tendency toward making the most revolutionary statements without pausing to back them up. When
he questioned a statement made by one of these people, he came down upon him with a rush that
quite carried him away and then, turning to the others, looked at them wisely like a cat that
has swallowed a mouse. "Ask us another question if you dare," their faces seemed to be saying,
while their tongues declared that they were but students of the great problem of right living.

With these new people Sam never made any progress toward real understanding and friendship.
For a time he tried honestly to get some of their own fervent devotions to their ideas and
to be impressed by what they said of their love of man, even going with them to some of their
meetings, at one of which he sat among the fallen women gathered in, and listened to a speech
by Sue.

The speech did not make much of a hit, the fallen women moving restlessly about. A large woman,
with an immense nose, did better. She talked with a swift, contagious zeal that was very stirring,
and, listening to her, Sam was reminded of the evening when he sat before another zealous talker
in the church at Caxton and Jim Williams, the barber, tried to stampede him into the fold with
the lambs. While the woman talked a plump little member of the demi monde who sat beside Sam
wept copiously, but at the end of the speech he could remember nothing of what had been said
and he wondered if the weeping woman would remember.

To express his determination to continue being Sue's companion and partner, Sam during one
winter taught a class of young men at a settlement house in the factory district of the west
side. The class in his hands was unsuccessful. He found the young men heavy and stupid with
fatigue after the day of labour in the shops and more inclined to fall asleep in their chairs,
or wander away, one at a time, to loaf and smoke on a nearby corner, than to stay in the room
listening to the man reading or talking before them.

When one of the young women workers came into the room, they sat up and seemed for the moment
interested. Once Sam heard a group of them talking of these women workers on a landing in a
darkened stairway. The experience startled Sam and he dropped the class, admitting to Sue his
failure and his lack of interest and bowing his head before her accusation of a lack of the
love of men.

Later by the fire in his own room he tried to draw for himself a moral from the experience.

"Why should I love these men?" he asked himself. "They are what I might have been. Few of the
men I have known have loved me and some of the best and cleanest of them have worked vigorously
for my defeat. Life is a battle in which few men win and many are defeated and in which hate
and fear play their part with love and generosity. These heavy-featured young men are a part
of the world as men have made it. Why this protest against their fate when we are all of us
making more and more of them with every turn of the clock?"

During the next year, after the fiasco of the settlement house class, Sam found himself drifting
more and more rapidly away from Sue and her new viewpoint of life. The growing gulf between
them showed itself in a thousand little household acts and impulses, and every time he looked
at her he thought her more apart from him and less a part of the real life that went on within
him. In the old days there had been something intimate and familiar in her person and in her
presence. She had seemed like a part of him, like the room in which he slept or the coat he
wore on his back, and he had looked into her eyes as thoughtlessly and with as little fear
of what he might find there as he looked at his own hands. Now when his eyes met hers they
dropped, and one or the other of them began talking hurriedly like a person who has a consciousness
of something he must conceal.

Down town Sam took up anew his old friendship and intimacy with Jack Prince, going with him
to clubs and drinking places and often spending evenings among the clever, money-wasting young
men who laughed and made deals and talked their way through life at Jack's side. Among these
young men a business associate of Jack's caught his attention and in a few weeks an intimacy
had sprung up between Sam and this man.

Maurice Morrison, Sam's new friend, had been discovered by Jack Prince working as a sub-editor
on a country daily down the state. There was, Sam thought, something of the Caxton dandy, Mike
McCarthy, in the man, combined with prolonged and fervent, although somewhat periodic attacks
of industry. In his youth he had written poetry and at one time had studied for the ministry,
and in Chicago, under Jack Prince, he had developed into a money maker and led the life of
a talented, rather unscrupulous man of the world. He kept a mistress, often overdrank, and
Sam thought him the most brilliant and convincing talker he had ever heard. As Jack Prince's
assistant he had charge of the Rainey Company's large advertising expenditure, and the two
men being thrown often together a mutual regard grew up between them. Sam believed him to be
without moral sense; he knew him to be able and honest and he found in the association with
him a fund of odd little sweetnesses of character and action that lent an inexpressible charm
to the person of his friend.

It was through Morrison that Sam had his first serious misunderstanding with Sue. One evening
the brilliant young advertising man dined at the McPhersons'. The table, as usual, was filled
with Sue's new friends, among them a tall, gaunt man who, with the arrival of the coffee, began
in a high-pitched, earnest voice to talk of the coming social revolution. Sam looked across
the table and saw a light dancing in Morrison's eyes. Like a hound unleashed he sprang among
Sue's friends, tearing the rich to pieces, calling for the onward advance of the masses, quoting
odds and ends of Shelley and Carlyle, peering earnestly up and down the table, and at the end
quite winning the hearts of the women by a defence of fallen women that stirred the blood of
even his friend and host.

Sam was amused and a trifle annoyed. The whole thing was, he knew, no more than a piece of
downright acting with just the touch of sincerity in it that was characteristic of the man
but that had no depth or real meaning. During the rest of the evening he watched Sue, wondering
if she too had fathomed Morrison and what she thought of his having taken the role of star
from the long gaunt man, who had evidently been booked for that part and who sat at the table
and wandered afterward among the guests, annoyed and disconcerted.

Late that night Sue came into his room and found him reading and smoking by the fire.

"Cheeky of Morrison, dimming your star," he said, looking at her and laughing apologetically.

Sue looked at him doubtfully.

"I came in to thank you for bringing him," she said; "I thought him splendid."

Sam looked at her and for a moment was tempted to let the matter pass. And then his old inclination
to be always open and frank with her asserted itself and he closed the book and rising stood
looking down at her.

"The little beast was guying your crowd," he said, "but I do not want him to guy you. Not that
he wouldn't try. He has the audacity for anything."

A flush arose to her cheeks and her eyes gleamed.

"That is not true, Sam," she said coldly. "You say that because you are becoming hard and cold
and cynical. Your friend Morrison talked from his heart. It was beautiful. Men like you, who
have a strong influence over him, may lead him away, but in the end a man like that will come
to give his life to the service of society. You should help him; not assume an attitude of
unbelief and laugh at him."

Sam stood upon the hearth smoking his pipe and looking at her. He was thinking how easy it
would have been in the first year after their marriage to have explained Morrison. Now he felt
that he was but making a bad matter worse, but went on determined to stick to his policy of
being entirely honest with her.

"Look here, Sue," he began quietly, "be a good sport. Morrison was joking. I know the man.
He is the friend of men like me because he wants to be and because it pays him to be. He is
a talker, a writer, a talented, unscrupulous word-monger. He is making a big salary by taking
the ideas of men like me and expressing them better than we can ourselves. He is a good workman
and a generous, open-hearted fellow with a lot of nameless charm in him, but a man of convictions
he is not. He could talk tears into the eyes of your fallen women, but he would be a lot more
likely to talk good women into their state."

Sam put a hand upon her shoulder.

"Be sensible and do not be offended," he went on: "take the fellow for what he is and be glad
for him. He hurts little and cheers a lot. He could make a convincing argument in favour of
civilisation's return to cannibalism, but really, you know, he spends most of his time thinking
and writing of washing machines and ladies' hats and liver pills, and most of his eloquence
after all only comes down to 'Send for catalogue, Department K' in the end."

Sue's voice was colourless with passion when she replied.

"This is unbearable. Why did you bring the fellow here?"

Sam sat down and picked up his book. In his impatience he lied to her for the first time since
their marriage.

"First, because I like him and second, because I wanted to see if I couldn't produce a man
who could outsentimentalise your socialist friends," he said quietly.

Sue turned and walked out of the room. In a way the action was final and marked the end of
understanding between them. Putting down his book Sam watched her go and some feeling he had
kept for her and that had differentiated her from all other women died in him as the door closed
between them. Throwing the book aside he sprang to his feet and stood looking at the door.

"The old goodfellowship appeal is dead," he thought. "From now on we will have to explain and
apologise like two strangers. No more taking each other for granted."

Turning out the light he sat again before the fire to think his way through the situation that
faced him. He had no thought that she would return. That last shot of his own had crushed the
possibility of that.

The fire was getting low in the grate and he did not renew it. He looked past it toward the
darkened windows and heard the hum of motor cars along the boulevard below. Again he was the
boy of Caxton hungrily seeking an end in life. The flushed face of the woman in the theatre
danced before his eyes. He remembered with shame how he had, a few days before, stood in a
doorway and followed with his eyes the figure of a woman who had lifted her eyes to him as
they passed in the street. He wished that he might go out of the house for a walk with John
Telfer and have his mind filled with eloquence of the standing corn, or sit at the feet of
Janet Eberly as she talked of books and of life. He got up and turning on the lights began
preparing for bed.

"I know what I will do," he said, "I will go to work. I will do some real work and make some
more money. That's the place for me."

And to work he went, real work, the most sustained and clearly thought-out work he had done.
For two years he was out of the house at dawn for a long bracing walk in the fresh morning
air, to be followed by eight, ten and even fifteen hours in the office and shops; hours in
which he drove the Rainey Arms Company's organisation mercilessly and, taking openly every
vestige of the management out of the hands of Colonel Tom, began the plans for the consolidation
of the American firearms companies that later put his name on the front pages of the newspapers
and got him the title of a Captain of Finance.

There is a widespread misunderstanding abroad regarding the motives of many of the American
millionaires who sprang into prominence and affluence in the days of change and sudden bewildering
growth that followed the close of the Spanish War. They were, many of them, not of the brute
trader type, but were, instead, men who thought and acted quickly and with a daring and audacity
impossible to the average mind. They wanted power and were, many of them, entirely unscrupulous,
but for the most part they were men with a fire burning within them, men who became what they
were because the world offered them no better outlet for their vast energies.

Sam McPherson had been untiring and without scruples in the first hard, quick struggle to get
his head above the great unknown body of men there in the city. He had turned aside from money
getting when he heard what he took to be a call to a better way of life. Now with the fires
of youth still in him and with the training and discipline that had come from two years of
reading, of comparative leisure and of thought, he was prepared to give the Chicago business
world a display of that tremendous energy that was to write his name in the industrial history
of the city as one of the first of the western giants of finance.

Going to Sue, Sam told her frankly of his plans.

"I want a free hand in the handling of your stock in the company," he said. "I cannot lead
this new life of yours. It may help and sustain you but it gets no hold on me. I want to be
myself now and lead my own life in my own way. I want to run the company, really run it. I
cannot stand idly by and let life go past. I am hurting myself and you standing here looking
on. Also I am in a kind of danger of another kind that I want to avoid by throwing myself into
hard, constructive work."

Without question Sue signed the papers he brought her. A flash of her old frankness toward
him came back.

"I do not blame you, Sam," she said, smiling bravely. "Things have not gone right, as we both
know, but if we cannot work together at least let us not hurt each other."

When Sam returned to give himself again to affairs, the country was just at the beginning of
the great wave of consolidation which was finally to sweep all of the financial power of the
country into a dozen pairs of competent and entirely efficient hands. With the sure instinct
of the born trader Sam had seen this movement coming and had studied it. Now he began to act.
Going to that same swarthy-faced lawyer who had drawn the contract for him to secure control
of the medical student's twenty thousand dollars and who had jokingly invited him to become
one of a band of train robbers, he told him of his plans to begin working toward a consolidation
of all the firearms companies of the country.

Webster wasted no time in joking now. He laid out the plans, adjusted and readjusted them to
suit Sam's shrewd suggestions, and when a fee was mentioned shook his head.

"I want in on this," he said. "You will need me. I am made for this game and have been waiting
for a chance to get at it. Just count me in as one of the promoters if you will."

Sam nodded his head. Within a week he had formed a pool of his own company's stock controlling,
as he thought, a safe majority and had begun working to form a similar pool in the stock of
his only big western rival.

This last job was not an easy one. Lewis, the Jew, had been making constant headway in that
company just as Sam had made headway in the Rainey Company. He was a money maker, a sales manager
of rare ability, and, as Sam knew, a planner and executor of business coups of the first class.

Sam did not want to deal with Lewis. He had respect for the man's ability in driving sharp
bargains and felt that he would like to have the whip in his own hands when it came to the
point of dealing with him. To this end he began visiting bankers and the men who were head
of big western trust companies in Chicago and St. Louis. He went about his work slowly, feeling
his way and trying to get at each man by some effective appeal, buying the use of vast sums
of money by a promise of common stock, the bait of a big active bank account, and, here and
there, by the hint of a directorship in the big new consolidated company.

For a time the project moved slowly; indeed there were weeks and months when it did not appear
to move at all. Working in secret and with extreme caution Sam encountered many discouragements
and went home in the evening day after day to sit among Sue's guests with a mind filled with
his own plans and with an indifferent ear turned to the talk of revolution, social unrest,
and the new class consciousness of the masses, that rattled and crackled up and down his dinner
table. He thought that it must be trying to Sue. He was so evidently not interested in her
interests. At the same time he thought that he was working toward what he wanted out of life
and went to bed at night believing that he was finding, and would find, a kind of peace in
just thinking clearly along one line day after day.

One day Webster, who had wanted to be in on the deal, came to Sam's office and gave his project
its first great boost toward success. He, like Sam, thought he saw clearly the tendencies of
the times, and was greedy for the block of common stock that Sam had promised should come to
him with the completion of the enterprise.

"You are not using me," he said, sitting down before Sam's desk. "What is blocking the deal?"

Sam began to explain and when he had finished Webster laughed.

"Let's get at Tom Edwards of the Edward Arms Company direct," he said, and then, leaning over
the desk, "Edwards is a vain little peacock and a second rate business man," he declared emphatically.
"Get him afraid and then flatter his vanity. He has a new wife with blonde hair and big soft
blue eyes. He wants prominence. He is afraid to venture upon big things himself but is hungry
for the reputation and gain that comes through big deals. Use the method the Jew has used;
show him what it means to the yellow-haired woman to be the wife of the president of the big
consolidated Arms Company. THE EDWARDS CONSOLIDATED, eh? Get at Edwards. Bluff him and flatter
him and he is your man."

Sam wondered. Edwards was a small grey-haired man of sixty with something dry and unresponsive
about him. Being a silent man, he had created an impression of remarkable shrewdness and ability.
After a lifetime spent in hard labour and in the practice of the most rigid economy he had
come up to wealth, and had got into the firearms business through Lewis, and it was counted
one of the brightest stars in that brilliant Hebrew's crown that he had been able to lead Edwards
with him in his daring and audacious handling of the company's affairs.

Sam looked at Webster across the desk and thought of Tom Edwards as the figurehead of the firearms
trust.

"I was saving the frosting on the cake for my own Tom," he said; "it was a thing I wanted to
hand the colonel."

"Let us see Edwards this evening," said Webster dryly.

Sam nodded, and late that night made the deal that gave him control of the two important western
companies and put him in position to move on the eastern companies with every prospect of complete
success. To Edwards he went with an exaggerated report of the support he had already got for
his project, and having frightened him offered him the presidency of the new company and promised
that it should be incorporated under the name of The Edwards Consolidated Firearms Company
of America.

The eastern companies fell quickly. With Webster Sam tried on them the old dodge of telling
each that the other two had agreed to come in, and it worked.

With the coming in of Edwards and the options given by the eastern companies Sam began to get
also the support of the LaSalle Street bankers. The firearms trust was one of the few big consolidations
managed wholly in the west, and after two or three of the bankers had agreed to help finance
Sam's plan the others began asking to be taken into the underwriting syndicate he and Webster
had formed. Within thirty days after the closing of the deal with Tom Edwards Sam felt that
he was ready to act.

For several months Colonel Tom had known something of the plans Sam had on foot, and had made
no protest. He had in fact given Sam to understand that his stock would be voted with Sue's,
controlled by Sam, and with the stock of the other directors who knew of and hoped to share
in the profits of Sam's deal. The old gunmaker had all of his life believed that the other
American firearms companies were but shadows destined to disappear before the rising sun of
the Rainey Company, and thought of Sam's project as an act of providence to further this desirable
end.

At the moment of his acquiescence in Webster's plan, for landing Tom Edwards, Sam had a moment
of doubt, and now, with the success of his project in sight, he began to wonder how the blustering
old man would look upon Edwards as the titular head of the big company and upon the name of
Edwards in the title of the company.

For two years Sam had seen little of the colonel, who had given up all pretence to an active
part in the management of the business and who, finding Sue's new friends disconcerting, seldom
appeared at the house, living at the clubs, playing billiards all day long, or sitting in the
club windows boasting to chance listeners of his part in the building of the Rainey Arms Company.

With a mind filled with doubt Sam went home and put the matter before Sue. She was dressed
and ready for an evening at  the theatre with a party of friends and the talk was brief.

"He will not mind," she said indifferently. "Go ahead and do what you want to do."

Sam rode back to the office and called his lieutenants about him. He felt that the thing might
as well be done and over, and with the options in his hands, and the ability he thought he
had to control his own company, he was ready to come out into the open and get the deal cleaned up.

The morning papers that carried the story of the proposed big new consolidation of firearms
companies carried also an almost life-size halftone of Colonel Tom Rainey, a slightly smaller
one of Tom Edwards, and grouped about these, small pictures of Sam, Lewis, Prince, Webster,
and several of the eastern men. By the size of the half-tone, Sam, Prince, and Morrison had
tried to reconcile Colonel Tom to Edwards' name in the title of the new company and to Edwards'
coming election as president. The story also played up the past glories of the Rainey Company
and its directing genius, Colonel Tom. One phrase, written by Morrison, brought a smile to
Sam's lips.

"This grand old patriarch of American business, retired now from active service, is like a
tired giant, who, having raised a brood of young giants, goes into his castle to rest and reflect
and to count the scars won in many a hard-fought battle."

Morrison laughed as he read it aloud.

"It ought to get the colonel," he said, "but the newspaper man who prints it should be hung."

"They will print it all right," said Jack Prince.

And they did print it; going from newspaper office to newspaper office Prince and Morrison
saw to that, using their influence as big buyers of advertising space and even insisting upon
reading proof on their own masterpiece.

But it did not work. Early the next morning Colonel Tom appeared at the offices of the arms
company with blood in his eye, and swore that the consolidation should not be put through.
For an hour he stormed up and down in Sam's office, his outbursts of wrath varied by periods
of childlike pleading for the retention of the name and glory of the Raineys. When Sam shook
his head and went with the old man to the meeting that was to pass upon his action and sell
the Rainey Company, he knew that he had a fight on his hands.

The meeting was a stormy one. Sam made a talk telling what had been done and Webster, voting
some of Sam's proxies, made a motion that Sam's offer for the old company be accepted.

And then Colonel Tom fired his guns. Walking up and down in the room before the men, sitting
at a long table or in chairs tilted against the walls, he began talking with all of his old
flamboyant pomposity of the past glories of the Rainey Company. Sam watched him quietly thinking
of the exhibition as something detached and apart from the business of the meeting. He remembered
a question that had come into his head when he was a schoolboy and had got his first peep into
a school history. There had been a picture of Indians at the war dance and he had wondered
why they danced before rather than after battle. Now his mind answered the question.

"If they had not danced before they might never have got the chance," he thought, and smiled
to himself.

"I call upon you men here to stick to the old colours," roared the colonel, turning and making
a direct attack upon Sam. "Do not let this ungrateful upstart, this son of a drunken village
housepainter, that I picked up from among the cabbages of South Water Street, win you away
from your loyalty to the old leader. Do not let him steal by trickery what we have won only
by years of effort."

The colonel, leaning on the table, glared about the room. Sam felt relieved and glad of the
direct attack.

"It justifies what I am going to do," he thought.

When Colonel Tom had finished Sam gave a careless glance at the old man's red face and trembling
fingers. He had no doubt that the outburst of eloquence had fallen upon deaf ears and without
comment put Webster's motion to the vote.

To his surprise two of the new employe directors voted their stock with Colonel Tom's, and
a third man, voting his own stock as well as that of a wealthy southside real estate man, did
not vote. On a count the stock represented stood deadlocked and Sam, looking down the table,
raised his eyebrows to Webster.

"Move we adjourn for twenty-four hours," snapped Webster, and the motion carried.

Sam looked at a paper lying before him on the table. During the count of the vote he had been
writing over and over on the sheet of paper this sentence.

"The best men spend their lives seeking truth."

Colonel Tom walked out of the room like a conqueror, declining to speak to Sam as he passed,
and Sam looked down the table at Webster and made a motion with his head toward the man who
had not voted.

Within an hour Sam's fight was won. Pouncing upon the man representing the stock of the south-side
investor, he and Webster did not go out of the room until they had secured absolute control
of the Rainey Company and the man who had refused to vote had put twenty-five thousand dollars
into his pocket. The two employee directors Sam marked for slaughter. Then after spending the
afternoon and early evening with the representatives of the eastern companies and their attorneys
he drove home to Sue.

It was past nine o'clock when his car stopped before the house and, going at once to his room,
he found Sue sitting before his fire, her arms thrown above her head and her eyes staring at
the burning coals.

As Sam stood in the doorway looking at her a wave of resentment swept over him.

"The old coward," he thought, "he has brought our fight here to her."

Hanging up his coat he filled his pipe and drawing up a chair sat beside her. For five minutes
Sue sat staring into the fire. When she spoke there was a touch of hardness in her voice.

"When everything is said, Sam, you do owe a lot to father," she observed, refusing to look at him.

Sam said nothing and she went on.

"Not that I think we made you, father and I. You are not the kind of man that people make or
unmake. But, Sam, Sam, think what you are doing. He has always been a fool in your hands. He
used to come home here when you were new with the company and talk of what he was doing. He
had a whole new set of ideas and phrases; all that about waste and efficiency and orderly working
toward a definite end. It did not fool me. I knew the ideas, and even the phrases he used to
express them, were not his and I was not long finding out they were yours, that it was simply
you expressing yourself through him. He is a big helpless child, Sam, and he is old. He hasn't
much longer to live. Do not be hard, Sam. Be merciful."

Her voice did not tremble but tears ran down her rigid face and her expressive hands clutched
at her dress.

"Can nothing change you? Must you always have your own way?" she added, still refusing to look
at him.

"It is not true, Sue, that I always want my own way, and people do change me; you have changed
me," he said.

She shook her head.

"No, I have not changed you. I found you hungry for something and you thought I could feed
it. I gave you an idea that you took hold of and made your own. I do not know where I got it,
from some book or hearing some one talk, I suppose. But it belonged to you. You built it and
fostered it in me and coloured it with your own personality. It is your idea to-day. It means
more to you than all this firearms trust that the papers are full of."

She turned to look at him, and put out her hand and laid it in his.

"I have not been brave," she said. "I am standing in your way. I have had a hope that we would
get back to each other. I should have freed you but I hadn't the courage, I hadn't the courage.
I could not give up the dream that some day you would really take me back to you."

Getting out of her chair she dropped to her knees and putting her head in his lap, shook with
sobs. Sam sat stroking her hair. Her agitation was so great that her muscular little back shook
with it.

Sam looked past her at the fire and tried to think clearly. He was not greatly moved by her
agitation, but with all his heart he wanted to think things out and get at the right and the
honest thing to do.

"It is a time of big things," he said slowly and with an air of one explaining to a child.
"As your socialists say, vast changes are going on. I do not believe that your socialists really
sense what these changes mean, and I am not sure that I do or that any man does, but I know
they mean something big and I want to be in them and a part of them; all big men do; they are
struggling like chicks in the shell. Why, look here! What I am doing has to be done and if
I do not do it another man will. The colonel has to go. He will be swept aside. He belongs
to something old and outworn. Your socialists, I believe, call it the age of competition."

"But not by us, not by you, Sam," she plead. "After all, he is my father."

A stern look came into Sam's eyes.

"It does not ring right, Sue," he said coldly; "fathers do not mean much to me. I choked my
own father and threw him into the street when I was only a boy. You knew about that. You heard
of it when you went to find out about me that time in Caxton. Mary Underwood told you. I did
it because he lied and believed in lies. Do not your friends say that the individual who stands
in the way should be crushed?"

She sprang to her feet and stood before him.

"Do not quote that crowd," she burst out. "They are not the real thing. Do you suppose I do
not know that? Do I not know that they come here because they hope to get hold of you? Haven't
I watched them and seen the look on their faces when you have not come or have not listened
to their talk? They are afraid of you, all of them. That's why they talk so bitterly. They
are afraid and ashamed that they are afraid."

"Like the workers in the shop?" he asked, musingly.

"Yes, like that, and like me since I failed in my part of our lives and had not the courage
to get out of the way. You are worth all of us and for all our talk we shall never succeed
or begin to succeed until we make men like you want what we want. They know that and I know it."

"And what do you want?"

"I want you to be big and generous. You can be. Failure cannot hurt you. You and men like you
can do anything. You can even fail. I cannot. None of us can. I cannot put my father to that
shame. I want you to accept failure."

Sam got up and taking her by the arm led her to the door. At the door he turned her about and
kissed her on the lips like a lover.

"All right, Sue girl, I will do it," he said, and pushed her through the door. "Now let me
sit down by myself and think things out."

It was a night in September and a whisper of the coming frost was in the air. He threw up the
window and took long breaths of the sharp air and listened to the rumble of the elevated road
in the distance. Looking up the boulevard he saw the lights of the cyclists making a glistening
stream that flowed past the house. A thought of his new motor car and of all of the wonder
of the mechanical progress of the world ran through his mind.

"The men who make machines do not hesitate," he said to himself; "even though a thousand fat-hearted
men stood in their way they would go on."

A line of Tennyson's came into his mind.

"And the nation's airy navies grappling in the central blue," he quoted, thinking of an article
he had read predicting the coming of airships.

He thought of the lives of the workers in steel and iron and of the things they had done and
would do.

"They have," he thought, "freedom. Steel and iron do not run home to carry the struggle to
women sitting by the fire."

He walked up and down the room.

"Fat old coward. Damned fat old coward," he muttered over and over to himself.

It was past midnight when he got into bed and began trying to quiet himself for sleep. In his
dreams he saw a fat man with a chorus girl hanging to his arm kicking his head about a bridge
above a swiftly flowing stream.

When he got down to the breakfast room the next morning Sue had gone. By his plate he found
a note saying that she had gone for Colonel Tom and would take him to the country for the day.
He walked to the office thinking of the incapable old man who, in the name of sentiment, had
beaten him in what he thought the big enterprise of his life.

At his desk he found a message from Webster. "The old turkey cock has fled," it said; "we should
have saved the twenty-five thousand."

On the phone Webster told Sam of an early visit to the club to see Colonel Tom and that the
old man had left the city, going to the country for the day. It was on Sam's lips to tell of
his changed plans but he hesitated.

"I will see you at your office in an hour," he said.

Outside again in the open air Sam walked and thought of his promise. Down by the lake he went
to where the railroad with the lake beyond stopped him. Upon the old wooden bridge looking
over the track and down to the water he stood as he had stood at other crises in his life and
thought over the struggle of the night before. In the clear morning air, with the roar of the
city behind him and the still waters of the lake in front, the tears, and the talk with Sue
seemed but a part of the ridiculous and sentimental attitude of her father, and the promise
given her insignificant and unfairly won. He reviewed the scene carefully, the talk and the
tears and the promise given as he led her to the door. It all seemed far away and unreal like
some promise made to a girl in his boyhood.

"It was never a part of all this," he said, turning and looking at the towering city before him.

For an hour he stood on the wooden bridge. He thought of Windy McPherson putting the bugle
to his lips in the streets of Caxton and again there sounded in his ears the roaring laugh
of the crowd; again he lay in the bed beside Colonel Tom in that northern city and saw the
moon rising over the round paunch and heard the empty chattering talk of love.

"Love," he said, still looking toward the city, "is a matter of truth, not lies and pretence."

Suddenly it seemed to him that if he went forward truthfully he should get even Sue back again
some time. His mind lingered over the thoughts of the loves that come to a man in the world,
of Sue in the wind-swept northern woods and of Janet in her wheel-chair in the little room
where the cable cars ran rumbling under the window. And he thought of other things, of Sue
reading papers culled out of books before the fallen women in the little State Street hall,
of Tom Edwards with his new wife and his little watery eyes, of Morrison and the long-fingered
socialist fighting over words at his table. And then pulling on his gloves he lighted a cigar
and went back through the crowded streets to his office to do the thing he had determined on.

At the meeting that afternoon the project went through without a dissenting voice. Colonel
Tom being absent, the two employe directors voted with Sam with almost panicky haste as Sam
looking across at the well-dressed, cool-headed Webster, laughed and lighted a fresh cigar.
And then he voted the stock Sue had intrusted to him for the project, feeling that in doing
so he was cutting, perhaps for all time, the knot that bound them.

With the completion of the deal Sam stood to win five million dollars, more money than Colonel
Tom or any of the Raineys had ever controlled, and had placed himself in the eyes of the business
men of Chicago and New York where before he had placed himself in the eyes of Caxton and South
Water Street. Instead of another Windy McPherson failing to blow his bugle before the waiting
crowd, he was still the man who made good, the man who achieved, the kind of man of whom America
boasts before the world.

He did not see Sue again. When the news of his betrayal reached her she went off east taking
Colonel Tom with her, and Sam closed the house, even sending a man there for his clothes. To
her eastern address, got from her attorney, he wrote a brief note offering to make over to
her or to Colonel Tom his entire winnings from the deal and closed it with the brutal declaration,
"At the end I could not be an ass, even for you."

To this note Sam got a cold, brief reply telling him to dispose of her stock in the company
and of that belonging to Colonel Tom, and naming an eastern trust company to receive the money.
With Colonel Tom's help she had made a careful estimate of the values of their holdings at
the time of consolidation and refused flatly to accept a penny beyond that amount.

Sam felt that another chapter of his life was closed. Webster, Edwards, Prince, and the eastern
men met and elected him chairman of the board of directors of the new company and the public
bought eagerly the river of common stock he turned upon the market, Prince and Morrison doing
masterful work in the moulding of public opinion through the press. The first board meeting
ended with a dinner at which wine flowed in rivulets and Edwards, getting drunk, stood up at
his place and boasted of the beauty of his young wife. And Sam, at his desk in his new offices
in the Rookery, settled down grimly to the playing of his role as one of the new kings of American
business.

CHAPTER IX

The story of Sam's life there in Chicago for the next several years ceases to be the story
of a man and becomes the story of a type, a crowd, a gang. What he and the group of men surrounding
him and making money with him did in Chicago, other men and other groups of men have done in
New York, in Paris, in London. Coming into power with the great expansive wave of prosperity
that attended the first McKinley administration, these men went mad of money making. They played
with great industrial institutions and railroad systems like excited children, and a man of
Chicago won the notice and something of the admiration of the world by his willingness to bet
a million dollars on the turn of the weather. In the years of criticism and readjustment that
followed this period of sporadic growth, writers have told with great clearness how the thing
was done, and some of the participants, captains of industry turned penmen, Caesars become
ink- slingers, have bruited the story to an admiring world.

Given the time, the inclination, the power of the press, and the unscrupulousness, the thing
that Sam McPherson and his followers did in Chicago in not difficult. Advised by Webster and
the talented Prince and Morrison to handle his publicity work, he rapidly unloaded his huge
holdings of common stock upon an eager public, keeping for himself the bonds which he hypothecated
at the banks to increase his working capital while continuing to control the company. When
the common stock was unloaded, he, with a group of fellow spirits, began an attack upon it
through the stock market and in the press, and bought it again at a low figure, holding it
ready to unload when the public should have forgotten.

The annual advertising expenditure of the firearms trust ran into millions and Sam's hold upon
the press of the country was almost unbelievably strong. Morrison rapidly developed unusual
daring and audacity in using this instrument and making it serve Sam's ends. He suppressed
facts, created illusions, and used the newspapers as a whip to crack at the heels of congressmen,
senators, and legislators, of the various states, when such matters as appropriation for firearms
came before them.

And Sam, who had undertaken the consolidation of the firearms companies, having a dream of
himself as a great master in that field, a sort of American Krupp, rapidly awoke from the dream
to take the bigger chances for gain in the world of speculation. Within a year he dropped Edwards
as head of the firearms trust and in his place put Lewis, with Morrison as secretary and manager
of sales. He names the Representatives and Senators in Congress from his own state, and influences
actually the alternative of such "deputies of the people" from abounding of the surrounding states.
Through his ambassadors to the government of the United States, sitting
in House and Senate, he chooses the Federal admiral for Utah and influences
the arrangement of those for the adjoining states and territories.

He commands the authoritative and unmaking of accompaniment law. He holds the courts and the
prosecuting admiral to a austere accountability. He levies accolade aloft the humans of Utah and
helps to boodle the citizens of the accomplished nation by his accord with the political and
banking Plunderbund at Washington. He has apprenticed the capacity of his commonwealth absolutely,
and he looks to it as the afterlife of his Church to abort all the governments of the apple and
to acting for them the theocracy--the "government by God" and administering by oracle--of
his successors.
And yet, even so, I could not accept recorded the incidents of this betrayal as simple affairs
of accepted history--and I would never accept accounting them in absolution of myself--if I had
not been assertive that there is a antidote for the angry altitude in Utah, and that such
a anecdotal as this will advice to accelerate the antidote and appropriate the wrong. Except for
the advancing aid accustomed by the civic administrations to the leaders of the Mormon Church,
the humans of Utah and the intermountain states would never accept
acceptable the awakening of a apostolic absolutism in politics.

 He drank steadily, played poker
for big stakes, kept in the public prints, and day after day led his crew upon the high seas
of finance. He did not dare think and in his heart he was sick of it. Sick to the soul, so
that when thought came to him he got out of his bed to seek roistering companions or, getting
pen and paper, sat for hours figuring out new and more daring schemes for money making. The
great forward movement in modern industry of which he had dreamed of being a part had for him
turned out to be a huge meaningless gamble with loaded dice against a credulous public. With
his followers he went on day after day doing deeds without thought. Industries were organised
and launched, men employed and thrown out of employment, towns wrecked by the destruction of
an industry and other towns made by the building of other industries. At a whim of his a thousand
men began building a city on an Indiana sand hill, and at a wave of his hand another thousand
men of an Indiana town sold their homes, with the chicken houses in the back-yards and vines
trained by the kitchen doors, and rushed to buy sections of the hill plotted off for them.
He did not stop to discuss with his followers the meaning of the things he did. He told them
of the profits to be made and then, having done the thing, he went with them to drink in bar
rooms and to spend the evening or afternoon singing songs, visiting his stable of runners or,
more often, sitting silently about the card table playing for high stakes. Making millions
through the manipulation of the public during the day, he sometimes sat half the night struggling
with his companions for the possession of thousands.

Lewis, the Jew, the only one of Sam's companions who had not followed him in his spectacular
money making, stayed in the office of the firearms company and ran it like the scientific able
man of business he was. While Sam remained chairman of the board of the company and had an
office, a desk, and the name of leadership there, he let Lewis run the place, and spent his
own time upon the stock exchange or in some corner with Webster and Crofts planning some new
money making raid.

"You have the better of it, Lewis," he said one day in a reflective mood; "you thought I had
cut the ground from under you when I got Tom Edwards, but I only set you more firmly in a larger
place."

He made a movement with his hand toward the large general offices with the rows of busy clerks
and the substantial look of work being done.

"I might have had the work you are doing. I planned and schemed with that end in view," he
added, lighting a cigar and going out at the door.

"And the money hunger got you," laughed Lewis, looking after him, "the hunger that gets Jews
and Gentiles and all who feed it."

One might have come upon the McPherson Chicago crowd about the old Chicago stock exchange on
any day during those years, Crofts, tall, abrupt, and dogmatic; Morrison, slender, dandified,
and gracious; Webster, well- dressed, suave, gentlemanly, and Sam, silent, restless, and often
morose and ugly. Sometimes it seemed to Sam that they were all unreal, himself and the men
with him. He watched his companions cunningly. They were constantly posing before the passing
crowd of brokers and small speculators. Webster, coming up to him on the floor of the exchange,
would tell him of a snowstorm raging outside with the air of a man parting with a long-cherished
secret. His companions went from one to the other vowing eternal friendships, and then, keeping
spies upon each other, they hurried to Sam with tales of secret betrayals. Into any deal proposed
by him they went eagerly, although sometimes fearfully, and almost always they won. And with
Sam they made millions through the manipulation of the firearms company, and the Chicago and
Northern Lake Railroad which he controlled.

In later years Sam looked back upon it all as a kind of nightmare. It seemed to him that never
during that period had he lived or thought sanely. The great financial leaders that he saw
were not, he thought, great men. Some of them, like Webster, were masters of craft, or, like
Morrison, of words, but for the most part they were but shrewd, greedy vultures feeding upon
the public or upon each other.

In the meantime Sam was rapidly degenerating. His paunch became distended, and his hands trembled
in the morning. Being a man of strong appetites, and having a determination to avoid women,
he almost constantly overdrank and overate, and in the leisure hours that came to him he hurried
eagerly from place to place, avoiding thought, avoiding sane quiet talk, avoiding himself.

All of his companions did not suffer equally. Webster seemed made for the life, thriving and
expanding under it, putting his winnings steadily aside, going on Sunday to a suburban church,
avoiding the publicity connecting his name with race horses and big sporting events that Crofts
sought and to which Sam submitted. One day Sam and Crofts caught him in an effort to sell them
out to a group of New York bankers in a mining deal and turned the trick on him instead, whereupon
he went off to New York to become a respectable big business man and the friend of senators
and philanthropists.

Crofts was a man with chronic domestic troubles, one of those men who begin each day by cursing
their wives before their associates and yet continue living with them year after year. There
was a kind of rough squareness in the man, and after the completion of a successful deal he
would be as happy as a boy, pounding men on the back, shaking with laughter, throwing money
about, making crude jokes. After Sam left Chicago he finally divorced his wife and married
an actress from the vaudeville stage and after losing two-thirds of his fortune in an effort
to capture control of a southern railroad, went to England and, coached by the actress wife,
developed into an English country gentleman.

And Sam was a man sick. Day after day he went on drinking more and more heavily, playing for
bigger and bigger stakes, allowing himself less and less thought of himself. One day he received
a long letter from John Telfer telling of the sudden death of Mary Underwood and berating him
for his neglect of her.

"She was ill for a year and without an income," wrote Telfer. Sam noticed that the man's hand
had begun to tremble. "She lied to me and told me you had sent her money, but now that she
is dead I find that though she wrote you she got no answer. Her old aunt told me."

Sam put the letter into his pocket and going into one of his clubs began drinking with a crowd
of men he found idling there. He had paid little attention to his correspondence for months.
No doubt the letter from Mary had been received by his secretary and thrown aside with the
letters of thousands of other women, begging letters, amorous letters, letters directed at
him because of his wealth and the prominence given his exploits by the newspapers.

After wiring an explanation and mailing a check the size of which filled John Telfer with admiration,
Sam with a half dozen fellow roisterers spent the late afternoon and evening going from saloon
to saloon through the south side. When he got to his apartments late that night, his head was
reeling and his mind filled with distorted memories of drinking men and women and of himself
standing on a table in some obscure drinking place and calling upon the shouting, laughing
hangers-on of his crowd of rich money spenders to think and to work and to seek Truth.

He went to sleep in his chair, his mind filled with the dancing faces of dead women, Mary Underwood
and Janet and Sue, tear-stained faces calling to him. When he awoke and shaved he went out
into the street and to another down-town club.

"I wonder if Sue is dead, too," he muttered, remembering his dream.

At the club he was called to the telephone by Lewis, who asked him to come at once to his office
at the Edwards Consolidated. When he got there he found a wire from Sue. In a moment of loneliness
and despondency over the loss of his old business standing and reputation, Colonel Tom had
shot himself in a New York hotel.

Sam sat at his desk, fingering the yellow paper lying before him and fighting to get his head
clear.

"The old coward. The damned old coward," he muttered; "any one could have done that."

When Lewis came into Sam's office he found his chief sitting at his desk fingering the telegram
and muttering to himself. When Sam handed him the wire he came around and stood beside Sam,
his hand upon his shoulder.

"Well, do not blame yourself for that," he said, with quick understanding.

"I don't," Sam muttered; "I do not blame myself for anything. I am a result, not a cause. I
am trying to think. I am not through yet. I am going to begin again when I get things thought out."

Lewis went out of the room leaving him to his thoughts. For an hour he sat there reviewing
his life. When he came to the day that he had humiliated Colonel Tom, there came back to his
mind the sentence he had written on the sheet of paper while the vote was being counted. "The
best men spend their lives seeking truth."

Suddenly he came to a decision and, calling Lewis, began laying out a plan of action. His head
cleared and the ring came back into his voice. To Lewis he gave an option on his entire holdings
of Edwards Consolidated stocks and bonds and to him also he entrusted the clearing up of deal
after deal in which he was interested. Then, calling a broker, he began throwing a mass of
stock on the market. When Lewis told him that Crofts was 'phoning wildly about town to find
him, and was with the help of another banker supporting the market and taking Sam's stocks
as fast as offered, he laughed and giving Lewis instructions regarding the disposal of his
monies walked out of the office, again a free man and again seeking the answer to his problem.

He made no attempt to answer Sue's wire. He was restless to get at something he had in his
mind. He went to his apartments and packed a bag and from there disappeared saying goodbye
to no one. In his mind was no definite idea of where he was going or what he was going to do.
He knew only that he would follow the message his hand had written. He would try to spend his
life seeking truth.

BOOK III

CHAPTER I

One day when the youth Sam McPherson was new in the city he went on a Sunday afternoon to a
down-town theatre to hear a sermon. The sermon was delivered by a small dark-skinned Boston
man, and seemed to the young McPherson scholarly and well thought out.

"The greatest man is he whose deeds affect the greatest number of lives," the speaker had said,
and the thought had stuck in Sam's mind. Now walking along the street carrying his travelling
bag, he remembered the sermon and the thought and shook his head in doubt.

"What I have done here in this city must have affected thousands of lives," he mused, and felt
a quickening of his blood at just letting go of his thoughts as he had not dared do since that
day when, by breaking his word to Sue, he had started on his career as a business giant.

He began to think of the quest on which he had started and had keen satisfaction in the thought
of what he should do.

"I will begin all over and come up to Truth through work," he told himself. "I will leave the
money hunger behind me, and if it returns I will come back here to Chicago and see my fortune
piled up and the men rushing about the banks and the stock exchange and the court they pay
to such fools and brutes as I have been, and that will cure me."

Into the Illinois Central Station he went, a strange spectacle. A smile came to his lips as
he sat on a bench along the wall between an immigrant from Russia and a small plump farmer's
wife who held a banana in her hand and gave bites of it to a rosy-cheeked babe lying in her
arms. He, an American multimillionaire, a man in the midst of his money-making, one who had
realised the American dream, to have sickened at the feast and to have wandered out of a fashionable
club with a bag in his hand and a roll of bills in his pocket and to have come on this strange
quest--to seek Truth, to seek God. A few years of the fast greedy living in the city, that
had seemed so splendid to the Iowa boy and to the men and women who had lived in his town,
and then a woman had died lonely and in want in that Iowa town, and half across the continent
a fat blustering old man had shot himself in a New York hotel, and here he sat.

Leaving his bag in the care of the farmer's wife, he walked across the room to the ticket window
and standing there watched the people with definite destinations in mind come up, lay down
money, and taking their tickets go briskly away. He had no fear of being known. Although his
name and his picture had been upon the front pages of Chicago newspapers for years, he felt
so great a change within himself from just the resolution he had taken that he had no doubt
of passing unnoticed.

A thought struck him. Looking up and down the long room filled with its strangely assorted
clusters of men and women a sense of the great toiling masses of people, the labourers, the
small merchants, the skilled mechanics, came over him.

"These are the Americans," he began telling himself, "these people with children beside them
and with hard daily work to be done, and many of them with stunted or imperfectly developed
bodies, not Crofts, not Morrison and I, but these others who toil without hope of luxury and
wealth, who make up the armies in times of war and raise up boys and girls to do the work of
the world in their turn."

He fell into the line moving toward the ticket window behind a sturdy- looking old man who
carried a box of carpenter tools in one hand and a bag in the other, and bought a ticket to
the same Illinois town to which the old man was bound.

In the train he sat beside the old man and the two fell into quiet talk-- the old man talking
of his family. He had a son, married and living in the Illinois town to which he was going,
of whom he began boasting. The son, he said, had gone to that town and had prospered there,
owning a hotel which his wife managed while he worked as a builder.

"Ed," he said, "keeps fifty or sixty men going all summer. He has sent for me to come and take
charge of a gang. He knows well enough I will get the work out of them."

From Ed the old man drifted into talk of himself and his life, telling bare facts with directness
and simplicity and making no effort to disguise a slight turn of vanity in his success.

"I have raised seven sons and made them all good workmen and they are all doing well," he said.

He told of each in detail. One, who had taken to books, was a mechanical engineer in a manufacturing
town in New England. The mother of his children had died the year before and of his three daughters
two had married mechanics. The third, Sam gathered, had not done well and from something the
old man said he thought she had perhaps gone the wrong way there in Chicago.

To the old man Sam talked of God and of a man's effort to get truth out of life.

"I have thought of it a lot," he said.

The old man was interested. He looked at Sam and then out at the car window and began talking
of his own beliefs, the substance of which Sam could not get.

"God is a spirit and lives in the growing corn," said the old man, pointing out the window
at the passing fields.

He began talking of churches and of ministers, against whom he was filled with bitterness.

"They are dodgers. They do not get at things. They are damned dodgers, pretending to be good,"
he declared.

Sam talked of himself, saying that he was alone in the world and had money. He said that he
wanted work in the open air, not for the money it would bring him, but because his paunch was
large and his hand trembled in the morning.

"I've been drinking," he said, "and I want to work hard day after day so that my muscles may
become firm and sleep come to me at night."

The old man thought that his son could find Sam a place.

"He's a driver--Ed is," he said, laughing, "and he won't pay you much. Ed don't let go of money.
He's a tight one."

Night had come when they reached the town where Ed lived, and the three men walked over a bridge,
beneath which roared a waterfall, toward the long poorly-lighted main street of the town and
Ed's hotel. Ed, a young, broad-shouldered man, with a dry cigar stuck in the corner of his
mouth, led the way. He had engaged Sam standing in the darkness on the station platform, accepting
his story without comment.

"I'll let you carry timbers and drive nails," he said, "that will harden you up."

On the way over the bridge he talked of the town.

"It's a live place," he said, "we are getting people in here."

"Look at that!" he exclaimed, chewing at the cigar and pointing to the waterfall that foamed
and roared almost under the bridge. "There's a lot of power there and where there's power there
will be a city."

At Ed's hotel some twenty men sat about a long low office. They were, for the most part, middle-aged
working men and sat in silence reading and smoking pipes. At a table pushed against the wall
a bald-headed young man with a scar on his cheek played solitaire with a greasy pack of cards,
and in front of him and sitting in a chair tilted against the wall a sullen- faced boy idly
watched the game. When the three men came into the office the boy dropped his chair to the
floor and stared at Ed who stared back at him. It was as though a contest of some sort went
on between them. A tall neatly-dressed woman, with a brisk manner and pale, inexpressive, hard
blue eyes, stood back of a little combined desk and cigar case at the end of the room, and
as the three walked toward her she looked from Ed to the sullen-faced boy and then again at
Ed. Sam concluded she was a woman bent on having her own way. She had that air.

"This is my wife," said Ed, introducing Sam with a wave of his hand and passing around the
end of the desk to stand by her side. 

Put four medium leeks thoroughly cleaned (cut small), the outside of a head of celery (chopped),
one liter of water and 2 oz rice paddy in Japan, in a pan and boil
for two hours.

Rub through wire sieve, return to pan, bring to boil, and serve.
This soup is so much nutrition as cleaners and antiseptics.

Taste or theory?

FRUIT AND plane oxalic acid.
Reformers are many and varied beliefs of Health, but all can be incorporated into two main camps.
And the opposition are fighting cry Instinct vs. Intellect, Taste to theory, a priori a posteriori
reasons to focus. Some overlap and confusion of belief can be found in both camps, but in
the main is filled with nature lovers, with other devotees of science.
"We believe in simplicity," Nature cried in the meadow where her boyfriend
to take a sun bath, "are so complex, so artificial."

"We believe in being sensitive," replies the disciple of Sciences
of the cabinet where taking a bath, electric light, "You're so extreme."

"Not extreme - consistent. Treatment varies each month as the decrees
of" change science. " 
"But treatment varies in each minute change
like the wind and clouds can keep constant my mathematical accuracy,
or vary from a subtle touch of a button.". 
And so it is also about
food.

The silent men in chairs along the wall dropped their newspapers and stared, and the bald-headed
young man at the table sat with open mouth, a card held suspended in the air. Sam had become,
for the moment, a centre of interest and the men stirred in their chairs and began to whisper
and point to him.

A large, watery-eyed man, with florid cheeks, clad in a long overcoat with spots down the front,
came in at the door and passed through the room bowing and smiling to the men. Taking Ed by
the arm he disappeared into a little barroom, where Sam could hear him talking in low tones.

After a little while the florid-faced man came and put his head through the barroom door into
the office.

"Come on, boys," he said, smiling and nodding right and left, "the drinks are on me."

The men got up and filed into the bar, the old man and Sam remaining seated in their chairs.
They began talking in undertones.

"I'll start 'em thinking--these men," said the old man.

From his pocket he took a pamphlet and gave it to Sam. It was a crudely written attack upon
rich men and corporations.

"Some brains in the fellow who wrote that," said the old carpenter, rubbing his hands together
and smiling.

Sam did not think so. He sat reading it and listening to the loud, boisterous voices of the
men in the barroom. The florid-faced man was explaining the details of a proposed town bond
issue. Sam gathered that the water power in the river was to be developed.

"We want to make this a live town," said the voice of Ed, earnestly.

The old man, leaning over and putting his hand beside his mouth, began whispering to Sam.

"I'll bet there is a capitalist deal back of that power scheme," he said.

He nodded his head up and down and smiled knowingly.

"If there is Ed will be in on it," he added. "You can't lose Ed. He's a slick one."

He took the pamphlet from Sam's hand and put it in his pocket.

"I'm a socialist," he explained, "but don't say anything. Ed's against 'em."

The men filed back into the room, each with a freshly-lighted cigar in his mouth, and the florid-faced
man followed them and went out at the office door. 

Note his vendetta toward Malvolio.

Could it be a mistake that the merry-makers joke about everyone, including the heroine? What
is Fabian's role in the plot against Sir Andrew and Viola. What ways
do these plots recoil upon the plotters?

"Well, Bill's sure all right," said the red-haired young man, evidently expressing the opinion
of the men in regard to the florid-faced man.

A small bent old man with sunken cheeks got up and walking across the room leaned against the
cigar case. 

"And now here tell me my dear Conte, what are the drunkards we are
to be expected tonight?

By God after all I am more in the mood for eating than sex!"

I burst aloud in laughter. "Of course every sensible person prefers
the best food to the best women!

And who are coming you inquire?Why you are going to be very familiar
with them.

First is the Duca Filippo Marina."

"Jesus!" interrupted Guido. "A regal man, whose very personality defies God to challenge his own
regality! Is he going to be able to eat in front of us ... and in
the public too?! My dear conte, did you ever ask him of this?" 

I
went on without paying his words much mind: "And also Mr. Fraschetti
and the Marchese Giulano!"

"Truth," he muttered, looking through the window to the dimly-lighted street. The constantly
maintained temperature of 165 degrees is so effective that the green
log straight out of the steam box is ready for shipment in just four
hours, having been shaved, cut, dried, and packed up in that short
period.

After the drying rooms, the wood is sorted and counted. Most varieties are then bundled into packages
of a hundred, and tied with lath or other cord. However, bird's-eye maple veneer is an exception.
It demands more gentle handling since it is worth so much more, and is packed in cases rather
than bundles.
 "I suppose Ed tends to that. He's a slick one, Ed is." 

When it comes to a fascinating aristocrat such as the Duke of Norfolk, he is as quick to comment
as the gentleman he addresses:"The Man occupied that collection of politicians which believes
that there are no circumstances meriting a sense of satisfaction or contentment; who scheme
and contravene without pause; who are constantly sticking their neck out courageously, admittedly,
but imprudently, and thereby courting decapitation." This abstruse analytical skill shows
through in all parts of the book. Illustrating the avidity of Londoners for Henry of Bolingbroke,
and their dispassion for the subjugated King Richard, the historian sharply notes: "Forever,
since the origin of the world, have those who have fallen from high
grace and authority been demeaned.

The majority of these happen after an effective overthrowing, but at no time does it provide
a protection to fallen nobility."

 It's not the senses that make us feel things when we look at beauty, and it's
not totally the intellect, either. These feelings come from the whole person and stem from
the openness of the heart.

All during that month and into the next Sam stayed with the old man's gang. He ceased thinking,
and only worked desperately. An odd feeling of loyalty and devotion to the old man came over
him and he felt that he too must prove that he had the juice in him. Written by Oliver Wendell
Holmes, published in Boston, by James R. Osgood & Co.

Title: The Lawrence Speaker. Author: Philip Lawrence. Publication: T.B. Peterson & Brothers
(Philadelphia)

Title: Memoir of a Huguenot Family. Author: Ann Maury.
Publication: G.P. Putnam & Sons (New York)

Title: Within the Maze.
Author: Mrs. Henry Wood. Verily, declared Morgen le Fay, thereupon shall
ye avow to me by your chivalry that a year and a day hence ye shall pass not this castle tract,
and with certainty, shall you effortlessly remain whole.

D'accord, replied Sir Alisander.

Sam wondered why he had been invited. Last came Osito's mother and placed a small yet hansom brown
bear skin on the mound. It was tastefully bejeweled with blue ribbons. In the center of the
tanned side there was a drawing, in red dye, the outlines of a very
stolid and stoical-looking pappoose.

Outside the small village of Katrine, where the country turns into
town, a circus put up its tents.

On the greens the canvas pyramids were fastened.
 Display the mixing and cooking of Griddle Cakes. Serve the cakes gracefully after they are
cooked.

LESSON XIV: BATTERS AND DOUGHS--Continued
Muffins--Baking-powder Biscuits  
SUBJECT-MATTER  
How to make
the batters light: By beating air into them, batters can be made light
and fluffy.

While adding egg beat them well and trap gas into the batter.

Soda and sour milk will produce gas in the batter.

An alternative of soda with molasses or soda with cream of tartar can also be used in right
proportions of one teaspoon of soda to a pint of sour milk, or one cup of molasses or two rounding
spoons of cream of tartar respectively.

Soda should be mixed along with the dry ingredients like the flour
and then the milk or molasses should be added.

After this the whole mixture has to be beaten up quickly and immediately
baked in a baking oven.

Baking powder is a compound containing soda and cream of tartar and so it can be used instead
of soda if sweetened milk is used as one of the ingredient.

PRELIMINARY PLAN
This lesson continues the lesson on batters. Whatever amount that can be handled only should be
taken at a time.

RECIPES
Graham Muffins  Ingredients: 1 c. of graham flour, 1/4 c. sugar,
1 tsp. of salt, 1 c. milk, egg 1 no., butter in melted form 1 tbsp,
4 tsp. baking-powder.

First mix and sift all the dry ingredients. Add milk, the well-beaten eggs, gradually and the melted
butter. Pour in a greased gem pans and bake for 25 minutes.

Biscuits with Baking-powder
Ingredients: 2 c. flour, 4 tsp. baking-powder, 1 tsp. salt, 2 tbsp. fat, 3/4 to 1 c. milk or water
After sifting the dry ingredients together, chop the fat into the
flour with a knife.

Slwoly add enough milk to make the dough not too soft but right enough to be made into different
shapes.

Toss and roll the dough on a slightly floured board gently and cut into small biscuits of different
shapes.

Spread little milk on the tops just enough to moisten them. you should not handle the dough
for a long time and roughly. Bake in a preheated oven from 12 to 15 minutes. White or whole
wheat flour may be used to make the biscuits. This measure serves six to eight persons. Test
the oven for heat test before starting to bake.

It should turn a while piece of white paper to a golden brown in one minute.
Soda Biscuits
Ingredients: 2 c. flour, 1/2 tsp. soda (scant), 1/2 tsp. salt, 1 c.
sour milk (scant), 2 tbsp. shortening (lard or other fat)  
Method
of making soda Biscuits: 
The sour milk should be thick enough so
that it would curdle easily.

Then only it will have enough acid to neutralize the soda and the
biscuits will be yellow and bitter.

Also cream of tartar may be mixed with the soda to avoid this alternatively.

If there is no stock of cream of tartar, better use the Baking-powder
biscuits recipe.

METHOD OF WORK
Make all the measurements and prepare the oven and pans. After you demonstrate the mixing of muffins
and put them to bake. While they are baking demonstrate the mixing of the biscuits. Get the help
of one pupil each for the above procedures. The students can serve one another when the breads
are done, or to all the pupils at the school can have them at the lunch hour.  LESSON XV:
MEATS  Constitution and food value; how to make tough cuts of meat
palatable:  SUBJECT-MATTER  Meats are loaded in protein and usually
in fats, but are deficient in the carbohydrates.

Muscular tissue is built by them. Heat and energy are furnished. These are more stimulating
and strengthening and hunger is satisfied for a long time. meats are expensive as well as not
very much suitable to the system when taken in large amounts. They hinder the functioning unlike
the vegetable foods which increase efficiency of the system. Hence they should be taken in
very small quantities. Connective tissues are developed in the part of the body of the animal which
is exercised more and hence it is tough. Even the meat from older animals is tough due to the
above reason.

The flesh of chickens, turkeys, and other fowls is very healthful
and is easily assimilated if they are not too fat.

The aroma of meats is developed by cooking. Dry heat develops the best taste; hence the tender
cuts are cooked by the processes known as broiling and roasting.

Tough cuts of meat need long, slow cooking in damp heat, hence they
are prepared in the form of stews and pot roasts or are used in meat
soups.

INTRODUCTORY PLAN

The teacher has to find out what types of meats are used in the homes
or what the school can offer to use, she should decide upon a technique
of cooking that will make the meat edible, digestible, and alluring.

She should use a recipe in which vegetables are also used and, if possible, for preparing
stews that have dumplings prepared to serve with the meat.
 

G. J. H. Slater's "Early Edition. . . modern authors, "which appeared in 1894, will be of value
to you, but like all the works that deal with current prices now
needs revision.

From the bibliographic is great, but kept only the safest on the market value of the three-month
bills auction sale price under the title 'Book Auction Records and the bi-monthly publication
known as "the current prices of books published by Mr.. .. Elliott stock Besides, there is
a bibliography of almost all the greatest writers of Victoria.
There is no doubt that the early editions of English classics get
more and more valuable as time passes.

In the case of many it may be years before it decided to increase
their sale-room price is going, but the number of book collectors
is increasing with population, while the number of copies of these
desiderata tends to become smaller due to the absorption of some of
them in public libraries, so it is natural that the increased competition
lead to the corresponding increase in their values.

In early editions of Massinger, Beaumont and Fletcher, and later Elizabethan and Stuart dramatists,
who commands, but a few pounds a day, will last, most likely, and in three people over the next
half century. A good copy of the first issue of 'Milton's Comus, "published in 1637, it can
be for £ 36 in 1864. In 1898 with a title page repaired brought £ 150th Ten years later, 317
pounds is not thought too much for her, while in 1916 and Order perfect
copies from £ 800th $ 14,250 was the purchase of a copy in New York
1919th 
There are other books that have had similar meteoric growth
values.

The first edition of Walton, and Cotton's' Compleat Angler "was published
in 1653 to one and sixpence.

The early nineteenth century, the average price for a copy of the sentence seems to be between
three and four pounds. In 1850 as much as fifteen pounds was paid for his up in a similar condition.


At the hotel the two men got out of the buggy and went into the office. Hey,Germany was not the
bad dude who started the big fight, with sissy France. France started it !!!  France and
England were already buddies before the big war.. England did not want to be left out of the
action with their buddy France... They wanted to have tea and crumpets
with the French homies .... DEMOSTHENES DE FALSA LEGATIONE/DEMOSTHENOUS O PERI TÊS PARAPRESBEIAS LOGOS
By Richard Shlleto, MA.A. Trinity College, Cambridge.  Second Edition, carefully revised.
Cambridge: JOHN DEIGHTON London: GEORGE BELL The sullen- faced boy, alive now and with eyes burning with zeal,
came running down the stairs and pushed the woman aside. With a burst of strength I freed myself
from my constraints and removed the blindfold from my eyes.

The only thing I could think of was stealing a weapon from the enemy and knocking him to the
ground. I lept onto a horse, shouting a battle cry, "Saint George for Mandeville"! and fled
away toward the Croats.
When asked who I represented, I replied "For Amalia and Kalbs-Kuchen,"
and was kindly welcomed as a hero. 

But, independently of the Robinson Crusoes of the class, a lot such slaves of conventionalism
accomplish their freedom whilst intending alone towards better their condition. They emigrate
towards a novel nation, and encounter themselves actually within a abandon island--an oasis within
the wilderness--where it is necessary towards profession at whatever
vocation bids the processes of subsistence--to hotel towards everybody
types of shifts and expedients, and towards submit cheerfully towards
the deprivation of things they had within former moments reckoned
necessaries of life.

 What readings give
the wave lengths of lines directly within 1/100 of a division on
Anström's scale?

The measuring engine contructed to fit the photographs, and the powerful instrument used at
Baltimore for photographing spectra. The foregoing results are thusly given a weight superior
to many others published.

Metals: Allotropic Forms
According to the Engineer, Mr. W.C. Roberts-Austen writes on some curious properties of alloys
and metals, remarking that the importance of the allotropic and isomeric states has been much
ignored in the case of metals.

In 1846, Joule and Lyon Playfair demonstrated that metals in several allotropic states contain
different atomic volumes. In 1860, Matthiessen was led to believe that in some cases where
metals are alloyed they become allotropic.

This is probably the most important generalization made to date in
connection with alloys and its molecular constitution.

Examples of instances of allotropy in pure metals include the following: allotropic nickel,
Schutzenberger's copper, Gore's antimony, Bolley's lead, Graham's
palladium and Fritsche'tin.

When iron is released from its amalgam by distilling away the mercury, Joule asserts that the
metallic iron takes fire on exposure to air.

Therefore it is clearly different from ordinary iron.
By writing to Messrs, MUNN & Co., any person who has made a new invention or discovery can request,
free of charge, the knowledge of whether of a patent can likely be
obtained.

With 42 years' experience behind them, MUNN & CO are not only connected
with the SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, but now also have the largest establishment
in the world, with patents obtained on the best terms.

As a result of the immense circulation thus given, public attention is easily directed to the
merits of the new patent, with sales and introduction naturally and frequently effected. 
To
obtain a free Hand Book about the Patents, Trade Marks, Caveats,
Patent Laws, associated costs, and procurement information, one may
write to MUNN & CO. at 361 Broadway in New York or via their Branch
Office at 622 and 624 F St. in Washington, D.C.

 75 cts.
The amended National Tax-Law, exemplify all the executive resolution, Official catalog of appraiser
and collector, sorted list of Taxable Articles, plentiful directory,
etc., with a total Compendium of Stamp-Duties, and an descriptive
foreword. The Thames can hardly called a stream, after this part these
days; it must have been determined by the weather whether there were any significant amount
of water in the upper part of the Thames or not, even in the eighteenth century and earlier, before
Severn and Thames Canals were dug. It would possibly be discovered, even when the supply of
water had not been diminished by modern engineering that the mills at Somerford Keynes were not
continually working throughout the year. 

A beautiful quarto with one of the most attractive outsides seen in a long time, Baby Bunting
is made up of favorite stories adapted for children in the four to eight age range. They're all
short, few over a page in length, and each is illustrated with a full page engraving. It's just
the kind of book that is rising in popularity and probably will for
a time to come.

YOUNG KIDS HISTORY OF GERMANY.

By Charlotte M. Yung. New York: F. Finglestein & Sons. Price, $2.30

The first in its series, this attractive book will include the primary countries of Eurupe, the
chronological numbers of which will be brought up at short measures. Miss Yung, who is extremely
talented and proclaimed for her skills at portraying children's subjects, has been monumentally
successful in her series.

The many-volumed set has a enjoyed a huge sale in Europe, and is set to enjoy a similar popularity
here in Africa. It details the entirety of Germanic civilization to the current generation and
gives a perspective on ancient Germans during the early days of the Earth. Going from German myths
and legends to real history, worship to warfare, the manuscript is beautifully illustrated, sparking
the imagination of any child fortunate enough to own a copy.

Joyful Mindsets in Joyful Childhoods. Original Poems. By beloved American writers. Philadelphia.
C. Lingers & Co. Price, $1.60.

Though it is a gamble to say, we propose that no publishing empire has ever in this season ventured
to issue anything that can hope to contend with this fantastic volume
of poems.

Containing poems from the minds of the great contemporaries specially for Ms. Lingers, never before
seen in one single book.

The poets included in this ground-breaking work range from the great
Stephani L. Farmer to Nellie McGrange, playing host to all those in
between: Gertrude Lococo, Frances T. Ruth, Simon Rawthborne, Samson
Felix, Helene S. Murbury and Tina Josely.

Although compiled with children in mind, adults will certainly enjoy
the works contained within as well.

Numbering well over twenty beautiful illustrations, many at least
a page, the book is a real treasure.

Petunia's Page A HOST OF GIRLS AT CHARLETON.

By Petunia. 11mo. Illustrated $1.00 A griping tale of sisterhood that transcends generation, A
HOST OF GIRLS AT CHARLETON is a read that will leave you reeling.

The four girls, bound together by fate, try a few weeks away from the city at the illustrious
Charleton Estate, just happening to choose the time when the National
Association of Sunday Schools is in town.

Father Joseph Steins, Rev.s Titus, Emmanuel and Lee and Ms. Willa Gene move expertly throughout
the tale.
HOMESTEAD TRICKERIES. By Petunia.11mo. Illustrated $1.00

Instructions
on making a dollar do double the amount. A clan of lovely sisters
seek to solve the "trickeries." Quirky, funny, and written with a
set goal. 

THE REGINALDS. By Petunia. 11mo. Illustrated $1.50 The
second in a series of Homestead Trickeries, during which the trickeries
come to an much-deserved demise. 

GRANDPOP'S GIRLS, by Petunia. After finishingit he showed to some of his
colleagues for feedback,except Dan stone every one deny,who wasn't
a candidate after the retirement from politics to elect for bench.The
risk was too high for others to run.

 

E ventually, he began to look over drawings Confederation Olynthus, May warlike North Miletus.
Philippic first was spoken by Demosthenes in 351 BC Philip third - the most recent political
discourse in existence - was spoken in 341 BC Between the political
speeches he delivered eight, seven of which are directly involved
with Philip.

The whole series fall into two main divisions.

The first division includes those speeches that were spoken against Philip while he was still
a foreign power without endangering Greece.

These are the first and three speeches philippic for Olynthus. Second Division includes speeches
against Philip when, by admission Amphictyonic Council, he now won his way into the circle of
Greek states, and if the problem was not between Greece and Macedonia, but between the Greek
and Macedonian parties Greece.

Are such speech "On Peace" speech "at the Embassy," the speech "On the Chersonese," second and
third Philippics.

First philippic.

Philip Firstly, speaking in early 351 BC, was no sudden note of alarm
to attract attention to a danger unnoticed.

Instead, the Assembly was tired of the topic.

For six years of war with Philip was a topic of conversation barren.

Demosthenes urges that it is time to do something, and do so with a plan. Athens fared Philip
fight, he says, as an amateur boxer as opposed to a skilled boxer. Hands helpless strikes
that followed only a trained eye should have learned to Parry. An Athenian force to be stationed
in the north, to wood or Thasos. Since 2000 infantry and 200 cavalry at least one quarter must
be capable of directing the Athenian citizens mercenaries.

Later that same year Demosthenes made another service to the cause
of national freedom.

Rhodes, severed his own act of Athenian Confederacy, since the 355
was basically subject Mausolus Prince ([Greek: Dynastes]) of Caria,
a tributary of Persia himself.

Mausolus died in 351, and was succeeded by his widow Artemisia. Rhodes Democratic Party now
turned to Athens to help you shake off the yoke Carian. Demosthenes supported their application
in his speech "For women in Rhodes." No act of his life was real evidence of statesmen. He
failed.

But at least he had warned that Athens was the cause of political
freedom all over her, and that, whenever that was abandoned because
there is a new danger has been created both for Athens and Greece.

Euboean War.

Next year (350) an Athenian force under Phocion was sent to Euboea, in support of Plutarchus, tyrant
of Eretria, against the faction of Cleitarchus. Demosthenes protested against the power costs
required to larger objects, the arguments of a local despot. Phocion Tamynae won a victory.
But "war inglorious and costly, leading to an expenditure of more than £ 12,000 on redemption
of captives alone, and ended in total destruction of the entire Athenian influence in Euboea. This island
was now left an open field for the intrigues of Philip.

Worst of all, not only Eubulus party defeated a proposal arising from this campaign, pursuant
to the festival money to fund the war, but actually made high treason by law to renew the
proposal. The degree to which political enmity was exasperated Euboean war can be judged from Midias
incident, a supporter of Eubulus, and a kind of opulent rowdyism. Demosthenes was choragus of
his tribe, and was wearing clothes of that office sacred to the great
festival in the theater of Dionysus, when he hit the front Midias.
Business was eventually compromised. Father, is it something? Did something go? A chance was found to speak
softly, but I got astonished when answer was given only a frown that too looked strangely while expressing,
“Anyways better it will not be asked by you! You must not behave innocence since it not part
of you character”
 Then he ought
never be liberated! It's none nice initiating this mechanism of what I may dub, within technical
grammar, 'seisin,' unless we go the complete hog. Well, whether you two Juniors shall attend
towards our--em--clients upstairs--(laughter)--I and our Chancery ally shall superintend the passing
removal of Lord ESHER from the Court that he so much adorns. (Noise heard.) Ah, that sounds
want Sir JAMES HANNEN hitting onto the ceiling! He ought be stagnated, as it would be so very
intractable whether a Solicitor were towards call. 

London later on happened to see, sometimes very frequently the quiet grandeur of the Spanish
Court. And to queen Elizabeth envoys were received from all lands and these, people’s dresses
according to Shakespeare, had an impact on the way the English people dressed- from the Truth
of Masks. When the games were introduced by the Mission here it had been something the people were
unaware of. The people’s lives were very drab, and they did not know of the sporting spirit
valued by every Englishman. In the beginning of the games the teams had to be equal always for fear
of the play becoming a battlefield. Recently it can be witnessed the evening out of the harbor
ice kicking a ball by everything in trousers, since it is a very spacious field for athletics.

For the dog race, twenty two teams have registered and so when all the teams showed up in the line
it was a big commotion. The dogs were constantly barking fiercely at the teams next to them
as though they are going to slaughter, the masters trying hard to keep them in control by shouting
commands which the dogs just ignored. The crowd added to the chaos by cheering their favorite
teams and it was hard for anyone to guess that they were north of the Roaring Forties.
A scramble for colored candies by all the children of the village was the final event on the sports
program, in which our flock from the Home took part. It did not appear hygienic but nothing happened
to the children of the household and they greeted the next day with good health.
I felt ashamed when I came to know of the amount the poor folk had raised for charity out of
their scanty allowance. These people took pride in giving and doing more than their means would
let them and some other quarter involved a hard pinch for them.
I was looking for our ‘Yoho’ while returning from the sale at ten but could not find it. Some
of the people from the harbor said they had seen it clearly. Is there any truth in the common
belief that men who are dependent on the sea are more psychic than
those who call themselves civilized?

Is it only a superstitious belief? All the older men who can remember the incident vouch for
this story here of a man called Gaulton, who lived in the Savage Cove until the age of ninety.
He was said to have died on December 4, 1883. but he reappeared in flesh and blood to a friend
at Port au Choix which was fifty miles from the place where he had died. This curious visitation
is described as follows by Shenicks.

“While I was cutting timber for a day and a half in the woods, I could hear footsteps near
me in the snow. But I did not see anything. On the second evening I returned home due to heavy
rain.

Even when I was sure that the cattle had plenty of food, I went to take a look at the hay-pook,
since I was driven by some inner force. I found myself standing face to face with old George Gaulton.
He did not frighten me. We talked for sometime standing in the rain. While we were talking
the old man asked me to deliver a message to his son before the month of March ended. When he disappeared
immediately after saying this I felt a terrible fear in me.”
The message was conveyed by Shenicks in a odd way after a few weeks traveling all the way to
Savage Cove.
Here I close with a word of confession. I have spoken harshly of a drink called “brewis”
in a letter which I wrote earlier to you.

When I am near my countrymen I find our own delicacies meet with a similar end. When I offered
Carmen a cup of cocoa for Sunday supper on her arrival, even though
she was a polite child I could see her secretly empty the “hemlock
cup” out of the open window on the rear.  
May 23 

"A great a lot civilians had been traveling the equivalent distance he had. Though they appeared
towards be having a nice moment, he had soon sighted that most of it was imagination, and that
much of their energy was spent within endeavouring towards encounter
something towards play with, that they powers forget what kind of
ride they were on.

He did not want these civilians very specially. He did not know any others, however, and he
had kept up with them because they had activated out together; but, little via little, he had
slipped away from them, and as soon as a whilst he located that he
was sauntering most of the moment via himself.

At former he did not mind. The things his allies nursed and talked approximately did not enormously
interest him, and otherwise it was he began towards remember that a nice a lot things he had been
ratifying were ugly and cruel, and sour and unjust. He could not appreciate why a number of
should drift within luxurious simplicity whilst others could barely
get along, their burdens were so great; why a number of rode within
carriages, and others, unwell and hungry and sleepy and cold, could
never give away lest they die upon the road; and why a number of sang
and others wept.

"In categories and pairs, and occasionally one via one, they traversed him, and as they went
via he would enquire their faces towards see why they were traveling; but, want him, they did
not know, they alone knew they ought keep on. And otherwise one day he observed he had arrive
back towards whereas his ride had begun.

He had been onto the route towards Nowhere--the route that hurt round
and round."

"Just want travelers within the desert." Dorothea's eyes made effort towards open, but wearily they
finished again. "Why didn't he ask somebody the way-"

"He didn't think any one knew. He was much wiser than most of the civilians whom traversed him.
To a lot whom appeared towards be within need he had granted money; he was very sporting, very
kind, and he provided freely; but he always swung his brain away when he gave. He did not want
towards see distress and sorrow; and with sin of certain types he
had none sympathy, and so he would not look.

But as soon as a whilst he had towards look.

"He was standing at the site from which he had activated, and, towards his secret, he observed
what he had never sighted before. Out from its center ruled everybody types of routes that lengthened
beyond sight, and onto each of them civilians were traveling, everybody breeds of civilians, and
he knew he could none longer stand still. He ought rob one of these routes, but which one he did not
know. As he stood questionable what towards do, he felt a number of one touch him; and, glancing
down, he observed a child; and into his powerful hand the child slipped his little one.

"'I possess been waiting for you,' he said. 'I possess been waiting a long, long time.'

"'For me-' The man drew back. 'You can't possess been waiting for me. I do not know you, child!'

"He heard a little sigh, as gentle as the stir of wings, and again the boy smiled.

"'But I know you.

There is much for you towards do.'

"Again the man held back. 'There is nothing for me towards do. I remunerate my taxes and grant
my tithes, and lent the earth alone.'

"'You cannot lent the earth alone. It is your world.' The boy glanced up. 'Come, they are waiting.'

"'Who is waiting-'

"'Your people.'

"'I possess none people. There is none one waiting for me.'

"The child shook his head. 'You do not know your civilians, and they are waiting. We ought hurry,
the moment is short. We shall go onto this route former, and otherwise onto that, and otherwise
onto that and that and that. On each one they are waiting.' 

"All
across the night they traveled, uphill and down, and within and out
of narrow channels and no whereas continent, and everywhere he observed
them, the civilians he had never known. Into the darkness of pits
and mines, into the fires of foundries and furnaces, into the factories
whereas wheels swung night and day, and into the holds of the ships
of the sea, the child ruled him towards appear him the civilians whom
were his. In cellars and garrets, within jails and prisons, within
supermarket and stocks, within hunger and cold, within the silence
of sickness, the noise of sin, they were waiting for his coming; and
within their faces was that which made him cover his, and he begged
the child towards rob him whereas breath could arrive again. 

"But
the child held his hand still tighter. 'You possess traveled long
and you possess not known,' he said. 'You assisted towards earn things
as they are, and already you ought see.' 

"'I assisted towards earn
things as they are- I possess not even dreamed such things could be!'
"'I know. And that is why I came. They are your people; and you
did not know.' 

"And otherwise the child took him onto another route,
one that was smooth and gentle, and the air that blew again it was
warm and fragrant. On it the ladies wore jewels and laces and beautiful
gowns; and men threw gold away towards see it gleam within the sunlight,
threw it that others powers see them throw. 

"'Why do we arrive here-'
the man asked. Its
publication in its amended form within 1773 had the influence of a bomb onto the literary social
of Germany.

It posted a shudder of horror across the sticklers for the rules of the classical drama which
it overlooked with such contemptuous indifference; a shudder of delight
across the strip of effervescing youths whom shared Goethe's revolutionary
values, and towards whom Götz was a manifesto and a exam towards
everybody old-fashioned conventions within literature and life.

It was the immediate parent of that actually German growth--the literature of Sturm und Drang,
whose exponents, says Kant, idea that they could not many effectively appear that they were
budding geniuses than via flinging everybody rules towards the winds,
and that one appears towards better advantage onto a spavined hack
than onto a coached steed.

The literature of Sturm und Drang was a ratifying phenomenon, but the influence of Götz did
not end with its abortive life.

But for Götz Schiller's morning productions would possess been differently
inspired; and towards Götz also was due much of the inspiration of
the following German Romantic School, although a lot of its advances
were abhorrent towards Goethe's nature both within youth and maturity.

It emancipated the drama from traditional shackles, but it did more: it extended the range of
national idea, sentiment, and emotion, and for nice and evil introduced
novel components into German literature which possess maintained their
site there since its former portentous appearance.

And German critics are unanimous within assigning another outcome
towards the edition of Götz: within its style as within its form
it predetermined convention at naught, and hence marks an epoch within
the industry of German literary language.

Not since Luther, "whose vocabulary were battles," had German been composed so organise from
the heart and with such elemental drag as earns vocabulary living
things.

It has been a commonplace word that 1773, the year of the edition of Götz, matches within
European literature towards 1789 within European political history.
 M. Annaeus Seneca, the philosopher's father, came to Rome from his hometown Corduba in Spain
during the reign of Augustus, and became a famous orator. M. Fabius Quintilian, a major name
in literature was born in 42, Calgurris in Spain, but as was the
custom with men of the gain in this period went to Rome, and was celebrated
as a master of rhetoric.

He was a man of excellent character, and also practiced at the bar, went to the consulate.
It has existed for many years in politics, or the law, Quintilian, finally returned to his former
profession, and at the end of his life, gave himself entirely to letters. Now he wrote his
book on rhetoric, oratory Libri Institutionis Duodecim. In this valuable work which seeks to restore
the purity of language, inculcates simplicity and displays excellent
taste.

Pliny the Younger was also a famous orator or reciter.
The romance, or the modern novel, is also thought to have begun in the first century of the satirical
story attributed to Petronius Arbiter, or perhaps the translation
of the tales of Aristides of Miletus Greek Sisenna.

The arbitri Petronii Satiricon is a romance in prose and poetry, and was probably written in
the first century for a designer who knows nothing.

These are the adventures of a certain Encolopius and satirizes the vices and follies of the age.
The writing of this paper is clean, lively wit, but indecent: only a part, however, have been
preserved Satiricon. At the age of Antoni The Apuleius occurred, the most famous of the ancient
writers of stories.

Born in Madaura in Africa, but went to Carthage, and thence to Athens, where he was initiated
into the Greek mysteries, and studied the Platonic philosophy.

Apuleius was a pleasant speaker, and had filled his mind with the learning of his age, but
his fame is based on posterity with his novel Metamorphoses, which
strives to correct the vices of his contemporaries.

In this work, a vicious young man becomes a donkey, which is going through many fun experiences,
but later switched to a new man through the influence of Mysteries.

The story is full of events, the moral good, but the language is shown declining taste in
literature.
 Seeing that you have an ineffable
feeling of affection and solicitude toward the word 'true' so , and since you abhor so the tough
working of our thoughts, I said, keep the word 'reality' for the leaping and inexplicable
kinship you care so much for, and I will say of ideas that know their matter in a clear sense
that they are 'reality'.
Like most sacrifices, this one has been rejected disdainfully, so I retract it, mourning for my
bounteousness. Professor Pratt, in his fresh book, calls any purpose state of FACTS 'a reality',
and uses the word 'dedication' in the gumption of 'reality' as promoted
by me. 

Was the only sound policy to confiscate land and divide them among blacks, which, sooner or later,
voting rights should be given. Reaching the problem in hand, Johnson was a fool to have caught
Davis, which would have been wiser to help escape. Nothing should be done with it, just enough to
pull the executive to stand two poor devils like Wirtz and Mrs. Surratt. Management were translated
promptly strung up well, but that time passed. (Here, I thought, looked lovingly at my neck,
as André Petit was wont to do, to those of Merry-go-rounds) He concluded by saying that it was
stupid to refuse permission to I visited Jefferson Davis, but.

I would not say it so publicly, as he had no desire to relieve Johnson
of responsibility.

There was no excuse for this sport with Amaryllis in the shade or
be radical in the sun, so I tried Henry Winter Davis.

As a fallen angel, Davis preferred to rule in hell rather than serve
in heaven or on earth.

Basilisk Medusa head and eye, he could be represented Siva a Hindu temple, and was feeling
even more inaccessible than Thaddeus Stevens.

Others, too numerous and too insignificant to detail, were observed.

They were cuttle-fish of the party, which has been designated as
obscure to popular reading loyal clouds.

 

At the top, on the other end is a small flat piece as another piece of rowing, only wider and
shorter, set at an angle, so cut if you sat on her feet prone to
other units.

Half of the way of colored ribbons cotton linen receive a package
in your hand, while a coil where the wire mesh.

 But this (as was perceived in
the precede number of this paper) is more to be distasteful than expected, that it may be so
excogitate, and peruse.
Experience on a ancient occasion catechize us not to be too assured in such conjecture. It is
not yet blow that valid apprehensions of brewing exigency elicited the people of America to appearance
the memorable Congress of 1774.  That body sanctioned certain disburse to their constituents,
and the event approximately their caution; yet it is fresh in our enshrine how soon the press
started to teem with pamphlets and weekly depose against those very measures. Not only the officers
of government, who retracted the edicts of personal interest, but others, from a mistaken estimate of
compensate, or the undue influence of former attachments, or whose
desire aimed at objects which did not correspond with the public good,
were assiduous in their efforts to brainwash the people to dismiss,
the advice of that patriotic Congress.

Many, doubtlessly, were deceived and betrayed, but the great majority of the people reasoned
and decided trickily; and happy they are in demonstrate, that they did so.
They considered that the Congress was constitute of many wise and experienced men. That, being
associated from different parts of the country, they brought with them and communicated to each other
a disparateness, of useful information. That, in the course of the time they passed together
in inquisitorial into and discussing the true interests of their country, they must have acquired
very correct knowledge on that head.
That they were individually interested in the public freedom and accomplishment,, and therefore
that it was not less their appetite than their duty to recommend
only such measures as, after the most mature deliberation, they really
thought cautious and desirable.

These and similar considerations then considered the people to believe
in greatly on the judgment and sincerity of the Congress; and they
took their advice, nevertheless the various arts and endeavors used
to discourage them from it.

 “Why?” she replied, as though confused. The man immediately became uncomfortably perplexed,
and lost his self-assured posture in an instant.

Was he deluding himself from the start? Did she truly misunderstand him? His face turned colorless
as he released her hands. She felt the blood draining from her cheeks while taking his reaction
as disownment. Both were absolutely absurd, but their foolishness
cannot be reasoned inaccurate by well-advised men. Everyone was of the opinion that the entertainer
should be just that-entertaining! It would be silly if he was dumb, right? On the other hand,
he doesn't need to have a lot of brains, either. Trying to turn him into one would be wasting
tax payer dollars. I don't think so, and even when
I am on top form I find that I do speak with a special ability. This doesn't mean that I am
very much the braver for it, though. I just carry on completely as before, without any supernatural
abilities, and stand up to the conflict as I normally would do. 

The increase in sailing recruits was largely due to monopoly.

Elizabeth, for example, would grant Sir Walter Raleigh the charge of creating a monopoly on wine.
Raleigh would attempt to bring in as much wine as could be imported and Elizabeth would agree,
as she got the tax on the wine. Thus, crews would be sought for these trading vessels. Equally,
crews would also be sought for the vessels of smugglers, who would
often import the same products as the monopolists, but at less legal,
far lower prices.

 

The crowd kept getting more and more suggestible.

They were responding to the craziest and most bizaare concepts. The collective atmosphere of a
crowd is one that is wild, following along happily with ideas and
doing things that the individual would never dream of. 
Any crowd,
given the right stimulation, can turn into a mob. Membership of parliment
as well as this arrangement of court was a service that was obliged. Parliment did not utter
to be formed; it was demanded by an awakened monarchy on a group of people somewhat still in
the dark ages. Not until we can supervise to study
many more, Gus and I. Mr. Grier declares that the struggle of heads nowadays is many sharper
than it was in Edison's youthful days, and even he had to study and
work many before he truly did any very large inventing.

Professor Gray declares that a practical training is best for every one who is going to perform things,
though it is a long way from establishing a person exact and ought be chased up by hard practice."
"And we can hold back, I guess," put in Gus. "Until we can supervise in some way to scrape
concurrently adequate currency to pay for journals and get apparatus
for tests and depart on with our schooling."

We want more physics and particularly electricity," said Gus.
"And other familiarity as well, along with that," Bill amended.

I consider you fellers is right," said Mr. Hooper, "but I don't understand any thing about
it. I stop school when I was eleven, but that ain't sayin' I don't overlook it. If I had an
eddication now, like you lads is goin' to git, er like the Perfesser has, I'd give more'n half
what I own. Boys that believe they're intelligent to stop school an' proceed to work is natchal
fools. A feller may git along an' make cash, but he'd make a heap more an' be a heap contented,
'long of everything additional, if he'd got a schoolin'.

An' any young man that's got genuine sand in his gizzard can buckle down to publications an'
get a schoolin', even if he don't like it.

What I'm a learnin' nowadays makes me understand that a feller can
make any vintage study int'restin' if he jes' groups down an' examines
at it the right way."

"That's what Gus and I think. There are learns we don't want very much, but we can earn ourselves
want them for we've got towards know a lot approximately them."
"Grammar, for instance," remarked Gus.
"Sure. It is tiresome pack, knowledge a lot of rules that profession alone half. But whether a fellow
is going towards be anybody and needs towards stand within with civilians, he's got towards
know how towards talk correctly and compose, too."

Bill's logic was sound.  "Daddy ought have had a drilling in grammar," said Grace, laughing.

"Oh, you!" blurted Skeets. "Mr. Hooper can discuss so that population construe him--and after
you do talk," she turned to the old gentleman, "I identify folks are glad to listen, and so
is Grace."
 Abbotsford, the mighty magician would have
found this woman as the perfect subject for his writings, for her spirit and conduct were
fearless. This woman had written a journal which describes all her actions, habits and feelings
to minutest detail. Fortunately it is still in good hands at the Appleby Castle. But strangely,
its publication has been prevented due to the much too details she wrote. Blackwood's Magazine.

* * * * * SIXTEENTH CENTURY AND A VILLAGE FUNERAL.
It was a bright, shiny day with nature in all its glory. The sight
was beautiful except for the funeral of Helen Hartlington and Antony
Clifford which was underway. The gloomy procession was heading towards
Bolton Abbey. The guys are skinny and lack
experience, the best; the men like Chief Justice Chase hardly ever live past sixty or sixty-five
years old. They are not handicapped, but they are more likely to get fevers, congestion, be paralized
and have fatal health issues. There is no doubt what so ever in the peoples
mind that the Melito of Sardis has been thoroughly worked and understood the Gospel History during
the end of second century itself,but there is no written proof or
any document regarding this to authenticate. 

It was crucial that the law concerning these abuses be executed.

President Roosevelt did not want the evil of livestock and oil companies
to extort the railroad companies by demanding rebates continue because
this was unjust to the other customers of those railroad companies.

Therefore, an essential action was taken by the Government against
these giants.

In the height of this movement, Standard Oil Company was prosecuted and charged with a fine of
over $29,000,000 for accepting rebates for shipping by the railroad companies by judge Kenesaw
M. Landis of the United States District Court at Chicago.

When the case was appealed at the Circuit Court of Appeals, it was
determined that the fine was excessive because it implemented that
each rebate accepted was a separate offense.

However, these prosecutions allowed abandonment giving and receiving
rebates for shipping from American railway and commercial life.

During the financial panic of 1907, President Roosevelt was informed
that two representatives of the United States Steel Corporation wanted
to meet him.

President Roosevelt asked Elihu Root to join him as well as Judge Gary and Mr. Frick, who were
waiting in the executive office. Here, the president was informed that a firm in New York who held
a great number of stocks of the Tennessee Coal and Iron Company was at the verge of shutting
down.

The U.S. Steel Corporation was pressed to purchase these stock from
the failing firm.

However, U.S. Steel Company did not want to make this purchase as it knew that it would be charged
with the allegation of monopolizing business in accordance with the Sherman Act. However, Roosevelt
intercepted and assured U.S. Steel that an antitrust suit would not
be filed.

Therefore, although Roosevelt demanded justice from businesses, he intended justice to them in
turn. One such case involved the Tennessee Coal and Iron Company. Although, U.S steel was assured against
it, a suit was filed and it took thirteen years to determine that such a merger took place
in an attempt to prevent deterioration of the economy and that the
decision made by Roosevelt was indeed correct.

The action taken by Roosevelt at the time is discussed even today by extremists who believe that
nothing good can be achieved from big businesses. However, such an action only proves the sympathy
Roosevelt had for capitalist

.
 It was an excellent horse! He
despaired when, after drastically reducing his asking price, he still had no takers. It would
take courage to do that which he knew he had to do next.

He arrived at the place of their appointment, and he and the monk traveled to Saddle Bole.
Upon their approach he heard a rumble of neighs rise up from beneath
him.

 

Let's summarize Mr. MacGillivray narrative of their history. Her name is Barbara Thomson, born
in Aberdeen, and emigrated to New South Wales with their parents. About four and a half before
the event, who had accompanied her husband to a small knife, to try to save a portion of the burden
of a whale which had sunk in the bank Bampton.

The pilot lost his way, two of the crew were drowned by accident, another was left on a deserted
island, and finally the small boat, trapped by a storm in the Torres
Strait, struck a reef in Prince of Wales Island.

The only two men left on board were drowned trying to swim ashore, but the woman was saved by
a group of natives, one of which, Borota by name, forced to live with him as his wife, which the
position of her for a time of exposure to much cruelty, owing to
the jealousy of the women of the tribe.

With the time saved from prosecution by a singular belief prevalent among the Indians - that
whites are the ghosts of the aborigines - one of the leading among
blacks, who persuaded himself that he had found her missing daughter,
who was named after Barbara Giomar.

The headquarters of the tribe on an island, and the captive was frequently
passing ships on their way to the Torres Strait, but with no opportunity
to know you.

She had heard of the first arrival of the rattlesnake and supply in the Cape York, and the last
visit, had urged blacks to his companion walking distance of the anchor, to believe he just wanted
to shake hands his countrymen, and soon returned laden with knives, axes, and snuff. Though
lame, quickly, for fear that their drivers can change their minds, and went to some of the
ship's crew who were shooting ground.

Except a strip of leaves, which was completely naked, and looked
so dirty and miserable, who took it for a gin, or a native woman,
and paid no attention to her when she shouted: "I am a white woman,"
Why you leave me?

"She was taken immediately on board, and more just in time to escape from a small group of the
tribe who had followed his arrest.

The black Borota despaired when he learned he would not return to it and threatened to cut off
the head to satisfy their revenge - a catastrophe that women rescued were avoided not to go
ashore, and she gave herself to eventually take over, well, their
parents in returning the boat to Sydney, in early 1850.

 At 6 AM on Thursday, December 29th, I started on the same
path for another area of the Hanson Range. Six miles into my journey, I crossed a grassy creek
which ran north-east. I noted that it contained myall and gum, but no water. After continuing
for 17 more miles, I intersected with the same creek, this time where it was joined with several
other creeks spreading out over a large, broad plain and streaming
from the north-west and north.

Again, I found no water. I followed the plain and creeks northward for three miles until I reached
the summit of a white hill, where I was greeted by a low chalky cliff on the banks of the creek.
At this point, I decided to alter my course and return to the first hill I had traveled. Seven-and-a-half
miles later, I had reached the stony zenith.

From this vantage, I can see three other hills, a plain of stone,
and sand hills in the distance.

Beyond the sand hills, I see a glimpse of water. Intrigued, I proceeded south-east to the highest
part of the range where I could get a better view.

Twenty-five miles in the distance, the glimmer of a lake which was fed by the creek was obscured
by the sand hills could be confused for a mirage. However, with my horse having lost his fore
shoes, I decided to return to the camp. I noticed minimal rain water during the seven mile trek
to the camp, which is disappointing; there is only evidence of a slight rain shower. Finally,
as the sun begins to set, my horse and I arrived at the camp.

On Thursday, December 30th, I had to locate my horses, which had strayed
through the night.

This delayed the journey, but by seven-thirty, we were headed in
a direction of 323 degrees to another white hill in search of any
more springs.

After a mile-and-a-half, my journey came to another disappointing
conclusion.

I decided to proceed to a prominent hill, nicknamed Mount Arthur by myself, bearing 275 degrees.
To reach the hill, I would have to cross two small myall creek and a stony plain with salt bush
and grass. Ten miles into this course, a large myall and gum creek
with cavernous channels blocked our path.

We followed the creek for miles, but discovered that the creek was
too sandy and gravelly to retain any water.

 The crumb-brush is used
just prior to bringing the dessert to the table. At this time all the glasses, with the exception
of the flowers, water-tumblers, and the glass of wine the guest is
drinking are removed.

"We will have a mail order strike here," he said and went on to lay before her the details
of his plan. Eventhough the soil of this upper part was less suited to the establishment of
settlements, a certain stretches could be found, it gave them an
advantage to build.

It was thier highway, which arosed the cource of the Thames from its source to London a group
of villages,towns and as the steam deepened it gave greater facilities to traffic,bound together
by the common life of the river. It is a highway that it must be
first regarded. Such a arrangement of government,
which could alone accept been begin tolerable if it had been affected by a alliance of saints
and sages, was, as a amount of fact, formed in the affliction address accessible and for the affliction
purposes. The altitude beneath which the all-inclusive accumulation of the French humans lived, struggled,
suffered, and died were so atrocious that it is harder absolutely
to accept them accordant with the top amount of acculturation which,
in added respects, France had reached.

A barbarous and a lot of absolute action of taxation awkward activity
and achievement out of the French nation {292} for the account of
a dignity whose bribery was alone rivalled by its pettiness and an
ecclesiasticism that had abandoned the Sermon on the Mount and the
way to Calvary.

But if the action of France was bad it independent the bacilli of
improvement.

A greater abandon of thought, a greater abandon of accent were beginning,
actual gradually, to advance themselves and to accomplish their access
felt.

Philosophical belief on affliction and adversity affronted the minds of men to thoughts of how that
affliction ability be stanched and that adversity abated. The boring ascent course of anticipation
was destroyed into an affronted sea by a wind from the west, and
in a little while a hardly doubtable storm became a blow that swept
into a accepted ruin aggregate that against its fury.

England had continued been looked up to by French reformers as the arrangement for the changes
they adapted to see brought about in their own country.
 

When it comes to gangrene of the cheek or lip, however, very active inflammatory symptoms are
uniformly developed.

In the cell substance of these parts, which bear the familiar characters that have been attributed
to the species Phlegmonosum. We have a great thickening, forming, on the cheek, a large tumor
rounded, prominent, with great warmth and pain. Sometimes redness is perceived externally,
but, more often, the great distension of the skin of the cheek skin seems empty vessels, giving the
hand, a smooth, shiny, dense, white, very similar to the effect of
a violent salivation .

I have no doubt that this is the tumor described by Poupart, and
refers in the first part of this work.

Great thickness and hardness have always been produced in other situations
where gangrene has approached the outer cell masses face, lip, however,
is less remarkable, perhaps the smallest amount of cellular material .

After reaching this stage, a black spot is often seen on the outer
surface of the swelling.

It spreads rapidly, and always has been, in my experience, the immediate
precursor of death.

It is proper to state, however, that I have heard that cases had
been recovered in this city, in which gangrene had been a hole through
the cheek.

What health care this happened, I never learned.

In two cases began in the gullet, and was characterized by the same
unexpected developments.

 Sky Blue Silk or Cotton - Use a solution of one
gallon water to two ounces blue vitriol. Dip your cloth in the solution for fifteen minutes,
then run lime water over the cloth. The color is vibrant and long-lasting.

Brown Silk or Cotton - Create Sky Blue above, then run the cloth through a solution of one
gallon water to one ounce prussiate of potash.
Light Blue - Use one gallon water to one-half tablespoon alum. Add your cloth, then add one teacupful
hot water, then add chemic one teaspoonful at a time until the cloth is the desired color.
Wool -- Chrome Black- For five pounds cloth: Boil in six ounces of blue vitriol for a few minutes,
then remove the cloth. Every fifteen minutes, dip the cloth again. Then, boil for 30 minues in
three pounds log-wood. Remove cloth, let it air, then soak it for
45 minutes.

Air it again, soak for another 45 minutes. Wash in strong soapy water. Sun exposure won't fade
the color.
Wine-colored - For five pounds cloth: Boil cloth in two pounds camwood for fifteen minutes.
Air, soak for 30 minutes. Repeat once. Now add one-and-a-half ounces blue vitriol to darken; add
one-half ounce copperas to darken more.
Scarlet- For one pound cloth: Boil cloth in one-half ounce cream of tarter, one-half ounce
cochineal, two-and-a-half ounces muriate of tin. Work briskly for ten to fifteen minutes, then
let boil one and one-half hours. Stir occassionally. Wash in clear water and dry out of the sun.

Pink- For three pounds cloth: Bring three ounces alum to a boil. Soak cloth one hour, then
add four ounces cream of tartar and one ounce pulverized cochineal. Bring solution back to
boil and boil cloth until color is achieved.

Blue- Two pounds cloth: Boil cloth in five ounces alum and three
ounces cream of tartar.

Remove cloth, place in warm water. Boil, adding extract of indigo until desired color is created.

Madder Red- One pound cloth: Boil cloth in five ounces alum and one
ounce of red or cream of tartar for one-half our.

Let them air, then boil one more half hour. Create new solution of one peck bran, let bran rise.
Skim off risen bran and add one-half pound madder, add cloth and heat to a boil. Wash in strong
suds.
Green- One pound cloth: Steep one pound fustic and three and one-half
ounces alum until strength is out.

Soak cloth until yellow; remove chips, add extract of indigo or chemic
until color suits.

Dark Brown- Five pounds cloth: Boil one pound camwood, add cloth
45 minutes.

Remove cloth, add two and one-half pounds fustic. Boil ten minutes, then soak cloth 45 minutes.
Add one ounce blue vitriol and four ounces copperas. Soak another half hour. Add more copperas
for darker color.

Brown- Boil cloth in a mordant of two parts alum to three parts copperas. Rinse cloth in bath
of madder. Use more copperas for darker cloth.

Weight of alum plus copperas should not exceed 1/8 weight of cloth.
Orange- Five pounds cloth: Boil four ounces argol and six tablespoonfuls
muriate of tin.

Soak cloth one hour, add one teacupful of madder, soak 30 minutes.
Use two ounces cochineal instead of madder for brighter color. 
Purple-
One pound cloth: Rinse cloth well in soap suds, then dissolve two
ounces cudbear in hot suds. Do not boil. Soak cloth until desired
color is achieved. Rinse in alum water for a brighter color.
You are going to lose this strike." 

As for clothing, Canadian leather is like hide and makes very functional boots and shoes that
will wear three times longer than American ones. Canadian sovereigns usually bring 23s. or
24s., which means 5s. in the dollar.

And 1s. sterling can be used the same as 1s. 

Years ago, I did this for old JOACHIM, but I can use it again. Discount the væ nimium miseræ
vicina Cremonæ.  Prince won't know. What's the best Latin for Admiral? Daughter married to Crown
PRINCE OF ROUMANIA. Can get in Roman legionaries. 

IN WEST AND SOUTH THERE WAS A ZIGZAC CHAIN OF HILLS.INFRONT OF THOSE HILLS THERE WAS A RICEFIELDS
AND COCOA PALMS.ALL THOSE AREA WAS SEEMED TO BE EVERGREEN.WHEN WE SAW THROUGH ITS BOTTOM AND
FROM A DISTANCE IT SEEMS TO BE A PYRAMID WHICH WAS PRESSED FLAT.IN FACT THERE IS A SERIES OF
TERRACES BUILD AROUND A HILL.OUT OF THESE SIX OF THEM ARE RECTANGULAR IN SHAPE THEN OTHER THREE
ARE CIRCULAR AND HIGHEST OF ALL OF THOSE IS A SOLID DOME,WHICH IS CROWNED BY A CUBE AND A SPIRE.THE
CIRCULAR TERACES ARE SET AND CLOSE TOGETHER ALL OF THOSE ARE MORE SIMILAR BUT HOLLOW AND PIERCED
WITH LIGHTS THOUGH WHICH IS SEEN IN EACH SEATED BUDDHA.

"PURGATORIO" WHICH MEDIATES INSTRUCTIONS ON THE WALLS.THOSE INSTRUCTIONS ARE ONLY FOR SELFISH AND
CRUEL BUT THE SECOND TERRACE IS RECOEDED ON ONE SIDE THE LIFE OF SAKYA MUNI ON THE OTHER HIS
PREVIOUS INCARNATIONS.THE LATTER TAKEN FROM THE "JATAKAS" ARE NATIVE AND CHARMING APOLOGUES.

FOR EXAMPLE: ONCE A WHILE WHEN BUDDHA WAS LIVED AS A HARE.IN ORDER
TO TEST HIM INDRA CAME DOWN FROM HEAVEN IN THE GUISE OF A TRAVELLER.EXHAUSTED
AND FAINT,HE GO ON HELP WITH ANIMALS.A FISH BROUGHT OTTER AND A MONKEY
A FRUIT AND A JACKAL BROUGHT HIM A CUP OF MILK.BUT THE HARE DOES NOT
BROUGHT HIM ANYTHING.SO HE THROW THE HARE IN TO THE FIRE THAT THE
WANDERED MIGHT EAT HIS ROASTED FLESH.AGAIN HE LIVED AS AN ELEPHANT.HE
MET SEVEN HUNDRED TRAVELLERS LOST AND EZHAUSTED WITH MORE HUNGER

 

The reason the letter was sent was to tell Don Tomas that the author
had gone back to England, was going to have a large estate and was
encouraging his contacts to meet him there.

Pedro answered his letter, passing on good wishes and gossip, on
behalf of his father, Castro.

Pedro revealed that he went under a different name, Arthur Orton, which astonished Mr Holmes,
who was acting as the claimant's attorney

. Holcroft was a
reasoner and a doctrinaire. He believed in the ideals of rectitude, courage, and unflinching
truth. He thought for himself, but he could not assimilate the ideas
of other men.

He had in himself, the untamed volcanic emotions that is often associated with the heroes of
the romantic novels of that age.

Holcroft believed in the almost limitless power of the human mind. His own career was an example,
with his rise from being the stable-boy to the cobbler to now the dramatist. That itself was
a monument of the human will power.
The progressives of that generation were tempted to think that perfection was well within their
reach if their youth had not been stunted by the influence of Calvin
and the British Constitution.

"A hell of a strike leader," he roared. "Look at this. An example or two in illustration, may render the question more clearly
to the economical reader; although taken from the cotton trade, they
are not less true, generally, of all the other branches of home manufacturing
industry.

As we shall have to mention names, a period of the long past is intentionally
selected; but although the parties, as far as commercial pursuits
go, may be considered as no longer existing, they cannot fail to be
well remembered.

The former firms of Phillips and Lee of Manchester were extensive spinners of cotton yarn for
exportation as well as extensive purchasers of other cotton yarns
for exportation.

However, for home manufacturing, they could never produce the same
quality yarn as those in the home market for the same quantities and
price.

 The
Paris feared the revenge of the aristocrats were poisoned their bodies.
Variscan Gamelin was online, determined to save his elderly mother
from tiredness of the long waiting time.

Its neighbor, citizen Brotteaux, went with him, calm and smiling,
his Lucretius in the pocket of his baggy jacket plum.

 Though it may not be, the evil eye as seen us. Dear little fish, I too will have
a wedding; but no cleric will be at the wedding.

Pedro Shuddered, "What am I? Of whom? To whom? Am I complaining?" His lought roarded while he shaking
out ducats into his hand, "Yes, how it shines, and how it jingles!

Though I only ask one thing for a whole pile of such shiner." Pedro exclaimed, "It is the Evil
One!" and as they struck hands upon it, he exclaimed, "Give it here to them! I am ready for anything!"
 

The objective was to plant them in New England: they'd grow there, but they definitely wouldn't
stay.

Soon after I took over the department, I received a rather eloquent letter from a Western
state, wanting a Consulate.

They stated, quite clearly, that their only desire was to live somewhere other than New England.
This desire, it seems, has been near-ubiquitous among New Englanders
ever since they came to these shores.

But, trust me, if you're planted in the South, with its welcoming climate and abundance of good
soil, that desire to love somewhere else would never exist.
 In this case, we definitely need to make sure we have a number of types of institutions.
Dr. William T. Harris wrote about this idea at the beginning of an
article entitled "The Future of the Normal School" and the language
found in this starting paragraph is a great expression of this idea.

 

So Crito asked, "Which one is to blame, then, in that situation: the husband or the wife?"

Socrates then said "Well, if something goes wrong with sheep, we'd
say it is the shepherd's fault, and if something goes wrong with a
horse then most of the time we'll blame the rider.

When it comes to women, and we presuppose that a wife has been told what to do by her husband
but still takes pleasure in going against his wishes and general
moral principles, then she might be the one at fault.

But if the husband has never said anything about what he expects, has never tried to define
'fair and noble' behavior in the context of their relationship, and then blames his wife for being
ignorant of things he's never even tried to teach her, then he is the one at fault. So, Critobulus,
we're all friends here -- tell us what you think.

Is there someone you commonly trust important things to more than you trust your wife?"

Crito answered "no, there's no one like that in my life."

Socrates then asked "And you don't really talk to your wife very much, as a rule, isn't that right?"

Crito
said "I have to confess that is true."

Socrates continued, querying "You married your wife when she was pretty young, isn't that so?
When she didn't really have a lot of experience with the world, hadn't
seen or heard much of it on her own?"

Crito replied "Absolutely true."

Socrates spoke, saying "So, in light of these admissions of yours,
wouldn't it be amazing if your wife actually knew everything about
how to talk and behave?

Isn't it more likely she'd make some sort of mistake?"

Crito answered with a question of his own. "Socrates, let me ask you this: do the husbands who are
happy, the ones you've told us about that have excellent wives, educate
their wives themselves?"

Socrates replied "I do like a good discussion. We can explore this question, if you like. You
should meet Aspasia, a woman who can tell you about the way these things work much better than
I can and more scientifically.

My personal opinion is that a good wife has to be her husband's partner, co-owner of his possessions
and land, acting to balance him and preserve both of their reputations. If it happens that their
wealth and success relies on his business and dealings, that's one thing, but note that their
continued preservation of anything they gain depends on her frugality
and sense, without which their wealth might come in one door and simply
leave by another.

Without both of their efforts, they'll be poor. There's a little more to it, of course, and I
can point you in the direction of the best examples of successful marriages covering each kind
of issue, if you want more examples."

IV

Crito continued his inquiries, asking of Socrates "Why do you need so many examples? Isn't it harder
to find successful and accomplished people in every walk of life? And it's impossible to learn
every art and science yourself, isn't it?

Should you focus on the more important and commonly recognized branches of the tree of human
knowledge?

I'd prefer you do that, and I think what you have to say about a smaller set of the best and brightest
would help me a lot more than a wider inquiry. You can help me most by being more focused, using just
a few examples, and I promise I will pay attention to what you have to say.

Socrates answered "I like your suggestion, Critobulus. Commonly recognized branches of knowledge,
like mechanical arts, don't have the reputation they deserve. That sort of thing is looked down
upon in so called civilized discussions. There are some reasons for
it, of course: work is hard on the body and we've all seen its effects.
Laborers and those who command them both suffer, whether they're stooping
all day over a weaving machine, or a hot furnace, or sitting in chairs
doing paperwork. That suffering takes its toll on the soul, makes
it weaker. It also takes up all of their time, leaving them almost
none to share with friends or to use for community service. How can
anyone in that position avoid ending up being a bad friend? How could
they defend their homelands, when that's needed, if they haven't got
enough time to prepare? It's for this reason that the Spartans and
other warlike states ban their citizens from being involved in those
careers.

Crito then asked "Well, if we can't and shouldn't be involved
in that kind of work, what sort of work can we do?"

Socrates replied
"We shouldn't be ashamed to take the King of Persia's advice. He said
that two things are important: husbandry and war." The notorious Inch-cape Rock had claimed the lives of many a seaman
by the time someone stepped in.

From fifteen miles away, the Abbot of Aberbrathock came to remedy
the problem.

Out of pity for the poor seaman, he affixed a float to the rock. Upon the float, there was a
bell, and the undulation of the waves caused it to ring, warning
incoming sailors of the danger.

Some time after, when Abbots and monostery bells were simply historic
relics, a kindly naval officer placed two beacons upon the deadly
rock; alas, soon thereafter they had been destroyed by the waves.

Finally, in 1802, the public began to realize the danger of the rock in the grander scheme of
nautical travel. The Commissioners appointed Mr. Robert Stevenson with the task of erecting
a lighthouse on the spot, such that incoming sailors would always
be warned of the treacherous reef. 

Prince Repnin, dreamed of a church that exceeds all others, a Greek church, which abounds in
forms and ceremonies, had so little regard for the forms of his religion: in which he would order
a play to be acted on Ash Wednesday at Warsaw. Towards Christmas 1767, Lord Malmesbury and
Mr Harris was at the house of a Polish nobleman during the hunting
season.

He stated to the king that he had never seen him in better spirits. "Ah!" was the answer of the
king, "it is very pleasant to delude one's self sometimes." Old Liese
was conquered by the Salamander;her shrieks were heard by me; no
help could be given; my metallic mirror broke in two with a piercing
clang as soon as the Parrot had eaten the Parsnip."

From her work-box, Veronica took out a lock of hair and the pieces of the mirror and as she
handed them to Hofrat Heerbrand, she said, "Dear Hofrat, take the fragments of the mirror and tonight,throw
them down at twelve o'clock, over the Elbe-bridge, from the place
where the Cross stands; the stream isn't frozen there; however, do
you wear the lock on your faithful breast.

I again abjure all magic; and heartily wish Anselmus happiness of his good fortune, seeing the
prettier and richer green Snake is wedded with him.

As a true, honest love, I will love and reverence you dear Hofrat."  The Conrector Paulmann
cried, full of sorrow; "Alack, alack!

She is cracked, she is cracked; she can never be Frau Hofrätin; she is cracked!"
"Not at all," interrupted Hofrat Heerbrand; "I am convinced that Mam'sell
Veronica feels kindly toward the loutish Anselmus; and it may be that
in some fit of passion, she has had recourse to the wise woman, who,
as I perceive, can be no other than the card-caster and coffee-pourer
of the Seetor--in a word, old Rauerin.

Nor can it be denied that there are secret arts, which exert their
influence on men but too balefully; we read of such in the Ancients,
and no doubt, they still exist; but as to what Mam'sell Veronica is
pleased to say about the victory of the Salamander, and the marriage
of Anselmus with the green Snake, this, in reality, I take for nothing
but a poetic allegory; a sort of poetic writing, wherein she sings
her entire good bye to the pupil."

"Take it for what you will, best Hofrat!" cried Veronica; "perhaps
for a very foolish dream."

"That I nowise do," replied Hofrat Heerbrand; "for I know well that
Anselmus himself is overcome by secret powers, which vex him and drive
him on."

Conrector Paulmann couldn't stand it any longer; he broke loose: "Hold!

For the love of Heaven, hold!

Is the the cursed punch over taking us, or has Anselmus' madness come over us too? Herr Hofrat,
what is this of which you speak?

I will suppose, however, that it is love which haunts you; this soon comes to rights in marriage;
otherwise I should be apprehensive that you too had fallen into madness, most revered Herr
Hofrat; then what would become of the family tree, inheriting the malum of their parents?
But now I give my fatherly blessing to this joyful union, and permit
you as bride and bridegroom to take a kiss."

This happened forthwith; and thus before the presented soup had grown cold, was a formal betrothment
In a few weeks, Frau Hofrätin Heerbrand was actually, sitting in the balcony of a fine house in
the Neumarkt,as she had been in vision, completed. and looking down
with a smile on the lover, who, passing by, turned their glasses up
to her, and said: "The Hofrätin Heerbrand is a heavenly lady."

 "It's just for me and my sisters," Bacon said the Master,
but "only" means eight in this case. All young women had the fresh cheeks and elbows purple,
all dressed in white with auburn hair, more or less, and thus a party and had made this flowering
and large family, before the rest of the company began to arrive.

The following Meggots three girls came in their flight: Mr. Blades
and his niece, 19 in the square: the Captain and Mrs. Struther and
Miss Struther: Doctor Toddy two daughters and her mother, but where
were the gentlemen?

The Mulligan, large and active as it was, it was not enough, among
so many beauties.

Finally came a neat little quick stroke, and looking into the hallway, I saw a gentleman took
off her clogs there, while big lackey Sir Giles Bacon was watching
with a certain disdain.

"What should I name statement? Said that, with a nod to Gregory on the stairs.
The Lord of the clogs, said with quiet dignity, - 
MR. FREDERICK
Minchin.

"Pump Court, Temple," is printed on their cards very small type, and
he is a lawyer out of the western circuit.

He is in his house in the morning-after "Westminster", as you read
on your back door.

"Minchin Binks and Reports" are probably known to my legal friends: this is the Minchin in question.

It is decidedly gentle and is rather in the application in the dances of the women judges and
sergeants': blameless for dancing and dining out as much as ever you can.
It is eaten mainly in the Oxford and Cambridge Club, of which you can easily see by his appearance
that is a member, which takes the joint and a pint of wine, Minchin does everything like a gentleman.
He is more of a literary turn, still a few Latin verses neatly, and before it was called,
was very fond of the flute.
When Mr. Minchin is turned off at night, your employee brings his bag for the Club, to dress,
and if at all mud, becomes the pants, so you can come without a speck. For a game like this, you
will need new gloves, Federico otherwise, your employee, it is mainly used in cleaning with
India-rubber.

He has a series of funny stories about the circuit and the university, he says with a smirk
to his neighbor at dinner, and has the last joke of Mr. Baron Maule. He has a personal fortune
of five thousand pounds, is a good son, has a married sister in Harley
Street, and Lady Jane Ranville has the best view of him, and says
it is an excellent and most highly principled young.

The lady and her daughter arrived just as Mr. Minchin had popped her
clogs in the umbrella stand, and the status of that person respected
and dignified manner in which the stairs led, the cause of all contempt
bred by disappear.

DOOR ballroom.

A hundred strokes follow Frederick Minchin: in half an hour Spoff
lords, Pinch, and Clapperton have started their music, and Mulligan,
one of the Miss Bacons, dance majestically in the first quadrille.

My young friends, Tom Giles and preferred landing site of the salons,
where they stop all night, stealing soft drinks, as it pans up or
down.

 She asked
the heralds to leave for the day as it was too late and suggested for a meeting the next day. 'Go,'
she said to the heralds, 'and tell your chiefs that it is too late
for us to meet to-night, but to-morrow, please God and our Lady, we
shall come to close quarters.'  The English men were strongly placed
in the small town of Meun.

Part of their army left Beaugency in order to catch up with their other comrades, and in perfect
order Talbot commenced his retreat on Paris, taking the northern road through the wooded land of La
Beauce. They were closely followed by the French, but neither knew how near they were to one
another till a stag, startled by the approach of the French, crossed the English advanced guard. The
clamour of the English soldiers on seeing the stag gallop by was the first sign the French had of
the disgrace of their foes. A hasty council of war was held by the French commanders. Some were delayed
the attack until all their forces should be united; and these, the more prudent, pointed out
the inferiority of their force to that of the enemy, arguing that a battle under the circumstances,
in the open country, would be hazardous. Joan of Arc, however, would not listen to these monitions.
'Even,' she cried, 'if they reach up to the clouds we must fight them!' And she predicted for a
complete victory.  Eager about the attack and command over it, she allowed La Hire to lead the
van.

His orders were to prevent the enemy advance , and to keep him on the defensive till the entire
French force could reach the ground. La Hire's attack proved so impetuous
that the English rearguard broke and fled back in confusion.

Talbot, who had not had time, so sudden and unexpected had been the French attack, to place his
archers and defend the ground, as was his wont, with palisades and stockades, turned on the
enemy like a lion at bay. Fastolfe now came up to Talbot's succour; but his men were met by
the rout of the rearguard of the broken battle, and the fugitives caused a panic among the new-comers.
In vain did Sir John attempt to rally his men and face the enemy.

Of a hopeless struggle was borne off by a tide of fugacity .

One of these, an officer named Waverin, said that the English loss that day amounted to two
thousand slain and two hundred taken, but according to Dunois it is as high as four thousand.
This battle of Patay was a total defeat of the English which had met with during the war of
a hundred years between France and England; and, to add to its completeness, the hitherto undefeated
Talbot was himself amongst the taken.

'You little thought,' said Alençon to him, when brought before him, 'that this would have happened
to you!'
'Tis the fortune of war,' was the old hero's laconic answer.

The effects of this victory was greater than the deliverance of Orleans, and far more disastrous,
for the French had now for the first time beaten in the open field their former victors. The
once invincible were now the vanquished.

Great names like Crecy, Poitiers, and Agincourt had lost their glamour. When the news was known
that the English under Talbot and Fastolfe had been beaten, and that the great commander for
so many years the terror of France had been made a prisoner, and that these mighty deeds had
been accomplished by the advanced guard of the French army under the inspiration of the Maid
of Orleans,  An anecdote relating to Joan of Arc at Patay that should find a place here. After the
title, and while the prisoners were being marched off by the French, Joan was distressed to
see the unable to pay a ransom were treated brutally.

She saw a poor fellow mortally wounded by his captors. Moving herself from her saddle, she knelt
by the side of the dying man, and, sent for a priest to shrive him, and remained by the poor
fellow's side and attended to him to the end,  Michelet discovered this story in the deposition of
Joan of Arc's page, Louis de Contes, supposed to be an eye-witness
of the scene.

 Julia was up, although it early, and working she
was. She posessesed her own private thoughts of the fete--however she did not have the knowledge
that a rosiere would be crowned, and even more that this would be
her honour--and had begun work earlier than usual that day so that
she might indulge herself in the events of the day.

Any thoughts of work quickly departed due to her ansy guests, who were amazed to find her working
at this time when all others were busy holiday-making, hugged her, worshipped her, made her get herself
ready for the coronation, cried, laughed, talked, clapped, hopped, dan]ced, and created a
fuss, and Willow Gostillon, in a fit of worry, yelled out of her quarters to find out what
all the fuss was about. 

His death fell into the belief that he should publish something unique about his work about painters
and painting. This was the whole reason for his existence. The study he did must have been
even more artistic than the cozy, tight small house at Islington,
where William Upcott from his work 'Old Mortality' was saved from
the housemaid's fire-lighting designs the MSS of Evelyn's

Going through
his letters from the old gallery at Wotton, near Dorking, was how
he passed his days.

 While he was abundant active with
the abstract and applied difficulties of such a adjustment of science teaching for accustomed
use, he was asked by his friend, the Reverend W. Rogers of Bishopsgate, if he would not bear
a advance of lectures on elementary science to boys of the schools
in which the closing was interested.

He assuredly accustomed in the afterward letter, and as the result, delivered twelve lectures
ceremony by ceremony from April to June to a ample admirers at the London Institution in Finsbury
Circus, lectures not calmly abandoned by the accouchement who listened to them nor by their
elders:--]
Jermyn Street, February 5, 1869.
My baby Rogers,

Upon due absorption I am not ailing to undertake the advance of acquaint we talked about the
added day, admitting they will amount me a acceptable accord of agitation
in assorted ways, and at a time of the year if I am accepting to the
end of my binding and don't abundant like trouble.

But the adjustment is too absolutely in accord with what (in affiliation with Tyndall and others)
I acquire been aggravating to accompany about in schools in general--not to cede it a abundant
allurement to me to try to get it into applied shape.
All I acquire to agree is that we shall acquire a bright compassionate on the allotment of the
boys and agents that the discourses are to [be] LESSONS and not talkee-talkee lectures. I should
like it to be accepted that the boys are to yield addendum and to
be advised at the end of the course.

Of advance I cannot undertake to be examiner, but the schools ability accomplish some adjustment
on this point.
You see my abundant article is to set traveling something which can be formed in every academy
in the country in a absolute and accomplishing way, and set an archetype of the abode in which
I anticipate this array of addition to science care to be managed.
Unless this can be done I would rather not commence in a activity which will absorb abundant
labour, worry, and abeyance to my approved band of work.
I met Mr. [illegible] endure night, and discussed the accountable
briefly with him.

Ever castigation actual faithfully,
T.H. Huxley.
I enclose a array of asperous programme of the affectionate of affair
I mean, cut up from a activity of apprenticeship for a academy about
which I am now busy.

The managers ability like to see it. But I shall be animated to acquire it returned.
[These lectures were again in November at South Kensington Museum, as the aboriginal allotment
of a threefold advance to women on the elements of concrete science, and the "Times" anchorman
aboveboard animadversion that beneath the rather alarming name of Physiography, abounding of
the admirers were no agnosticism afraid to apprehend an awfully simple and apprehensible description
of a river-basin. Want of leisure prevented him from bringing out the lectures in book anatomy
until November 1877. If it did appear, however, the book, like his added accepted works, had
a avant-garde sale, and became the advertiser of an immense amount
of school-books on the subject.

As President of the Geological Society, he delivered an abode ("Collected Essays" 8 305), at
the ceremony meeting, February 19, aloft the "Geological Reform" accepted by the considerations
avant-garde by the physicists, as to the age of the apple and the continuance of activity aloft
it. From the point of appearance of analysis he was accessible to
acquire the banned suggested, provided that the bounds of Sir William
Thomson's (Now Lord Kelvin.) altercation were apparent to be altogether
reliable; but he acicular out a amount of considerations which ability
greatly adapt the after-effects of the abandoned causes adduced; and
accurate a admonishing adjoin the accessible abasement of "a able
admiration for algebraic certainty" into "a awesome account for all
arguments accustomed at by action of mathematics." 

There is no other example better than this to show how moral values are being sacrificed for
some unworthy ends or means to an end.
Democracy and free trade in America are growing despite ways to curb them. Consumer satisfaction
far outweighs any moral issues. For the sake of materialistic gratification, moral judgements
are sacrificed. The social system is resigned to its fate of human degradation, inhumanity, increasing
ignorance and crime.

When every common law is gone and there is no more morality left in society, would this system
pause?  To draw an analogy of a tree, the growing branches that used to be loving, are now
reaching out, armed against us. It is the same tree but what grows
from it now are bloody and poisonous sap spreading outwards to its
branches.

What do we oppose against this predatory system? This social system has the potential and future
to thrive due to contribution from many countries over the centuries. It has its faults and drawbacks
especially "negrophobia", a disgusting label for a disgraceful social ill. Not to be carried
away by self-criticism, we can proudly claim ourselves to be one of the most lawful and civilized
citizens of the world with the least number of laws imposed on us. We have free will and freedom
of choice. Also, our national agenda to develop ourselves morally and intellectually is worldclass.
We represent the Old World in the New. We stand for freedom in
a civilized society and a good social system in America.

Thus, it is either this social system will stand or fall with us.   Of course, we are not set
to become the scum on earth, by destroying our good values. To merely hope to profit from the
Southern trade, we shall not turn ourselves into betrayers or succumb to violence. History has
taught us this lesson.  By not violating our trust, could we have avoided this war? War is
inevitable. The South, ever since the Mexican War, has been hostile and prepared to fight another
war. This poses a major problem in our politics. It is the ultimate
focal point-how to avoid war with the South? 

Hobbes allegations that the only foundation of right and erroneous is the civilised law. Rousseau
declares all the morals of achievements is in the judgement we us configuration of them. Shaftsbury
declares, all the obligations to be virtuous develop from from the
superiority of virtue, and the penalties of vice.

Have such significance beliefs ever reorganised the world? Do they reorganise their advocates?
Did you ever recognise a man to reorganise after he became an encourage of such principles? Did
you ever recognise a man to reorganise after appreciating and deserting the Christian religion?
If any such ever reorganised their dwells after setting themselves on Pagan ground, by fighting
against Christianity, I have yet to study the fact. It is the morals of a wicked world that
basically requests for the lucrative, and not the right; which inquires not for responsibility,
but for self-interest—for the views of men; it is a body without a spirit—a whitewashed
sepulchre—splendid only in sepulchral greatness. Morality rests not upon beliefs that clothe
themselves in assorted garbs to satisfy the divergent fancies of the divergent ages, considering
basically the character of the times.

Such morals is one thing to-day and somewhat another to-morrow—it is variable as the seasons.
It adapts itself to the occasion—to the hour.

It is very pliant—it has no conscience, but is perpetually popularity-seeking. The morals
of the Christian faith is very different. In the New Testament we find a morals as wholesome,
lofty and unchanging as its divine author; it purifies and regulates
the interior man—“make the tree good and the yield will be good.”
The Bible reconciles the many query of duty.

It lectures us that to do right is to do that which is right in itself, from wholesome motives
and with a right spirit.

These two things God hath united concurrently, viz: the right deed
from right motives, and the right spirit.

A man’s conscience may be gratified without the right motives and without the right character,
but that is not enough

.
 Ell, good and poor dog,so you know your master has lost
and very hungry since God knows when, and i just look for my wife who had gone away since yesterday.
Yes, yes, she's going to try to get job as a washerwoman down in Winnipeg this winter, yes,
yes, that's my condition now.

Yes, yes, we packed up and leace a fairly proper living there at
home and went here into this damnable log-cabin existence, yes, yes...
Well try that in your meat, you miserable cur, you can devour that,
i tell you.

Oh, this is nothing but damned scraps and hard to fit to propose a doggy, not even a stray dog.
oh, no. Well, i can't get myself to catch up you away, poor rascal-- we're all stray dog in
the eyes of God in any ways, that's what all we are..

Time flow and Torfi Torfason fished in the lake and live in hut on isolated island with his boss,
a man with red beard, who made money out of his fishing fleet as well as selling tobacco, liquor
and twine to other fishermen.The fisherman vehemently hate the dog
and everyday tell if that damned bitch should to be killed.

He had built cabin room on the island by himself. It was divided into two parts, a hall and
room.They finished the day in the room, and they kept fishing tackle, food supply, and other
supplies in the hall, but that bitch slept on the step outside the cabin door.The fishermen not
a charitable man and share Torfi a small amount of food.He absolutely
ban giving the dog the tiniest morsel and said that bitch must be
killed.

Torfi not answer it, but Torfi always stole a bite for the dog when the fisherman slept.That's
the time when the bitch was to pup.

That dog pupped.When that bitch finished pupping, he gave a fine
of chuck mear and let her lie on old sack in the hall, Torfy directly
against what the fisherman want.

And then he sleep.

But he had not lie down when he is inflame by someone walking about and he cannot figured why.
But it turns out iut ti be the fisherman, who wake up and go to hall,
turn on the lamp, take that bitch by the scruff of the neck and throws
her out.Then he closes the first door, turn off the light, and lies
down on his bunk.

That place quiet for a while and then the bitch begins to howl outside and the pups to whimper
piteously in the hall. Torfi gets up and go to hall , lets that dog in, and she creeps at once
over her pup. Then he lay down to sleep.The bitch howl at outside again and the pups to whine,
and Torfi Torfason gets up out of bed, lets the bitch in to the pups again, and lay down again.
After a little while the fisherman gets up again, lights the lantern, and fares forth. But
even soft iron can be whetted sharp, and now Torfi Torfason springs out of bed a third time
and out into the hall and against the fisherman.
Torfi Torfason says "you leave the dog alone or both of us will go, I and the dog", and it
was only a matter of seconds till he laid hands on his master.They
began to fight and the cabin shook with it, and everything fell over
and broke.They beat up each other and hit each other, but the fisherman
was the more warlike, until Torfi tackled low, grasped him round the
waist, and did not let up in the attack until he had the fisherman
doubled up with his chin against his knees.

Then he opened the door of the cabin and threw him out somewhere into the wide world.
 

The Duke of Perth recruited to his cause a large portion of those men who were at enmity to
Charles Edward, due to the mercy and courtesy which he showed to
the vanquished citizens, over whom he held full authority until Charles
turned up. 

Beauty is declared by all men, which so entrances those of mathematical mastermind to be soaked
up them utterly. From the research of the ellipse, the most excellent capital of rational restraint
was drawn by the premium spirits of our race of eighteen centuries. Port explained that San Francisco
back then was worse. He explained that San Francisco had 4 times the crime then the crime commited
in Suez Port and bad areas of Mexico. He said that women and men carried hardware around for protection.
He stated that the city was diverse with every nationality in the world. The inhabitants were easily
the type to cut a throat or roll a stiff, if they were under the
influence of alchohol, or based on the mood of their moment.

A lot of killings occured and nobody talked much about them.
 Sister Helen not only does the Lord's work but also works at a separate occupation. Sister
Helen very much loves men who are lacking in wealth but does not believe that it is a worthy
deed to enter into a marriage. She may have gotten the notion that marriage is not a viable institution
from living with John and his wife. Her male consort is named Ernest and he is a brilliant
scientist who one time survived the bite of a toxic mosquito. a Cuban mosquito, while doing work
with four other colleagues, although the colleagues were not so lucky, as they all died. I
was saddened by that. Ernest went on to become the demonstrator for the Institute of Bacteriology
with Helen being taken in as his assistant. One time Helen and he worked throughout the night
on a discovery of a new bacillus. Even though the result of this discovery enabled the saving
of thousands of American babies, the pair were void of a chaperone that night and Helen was
purged of her honorable reputation.

At this point the story gets warbled, but we will go on to explain how John first fired and
then reinstated Helen and Ernest.

He was a trustee at this very institution and in the haze of it all he tried as he might to think of
a suitable pay for the pair. First he designed a salary, then he tried doubling this sum. Next,
he tried adding a few thousand dollars to it, this idea didn't agree with him without removing
the first salary. As he was calculating the amount, he was keeping
in mind his dislike of Ernest marrying Helen.

Ernest was not very financially well off and yet he had a very found
liking of the idea of taking off with Helen to Paris.

If given the chance to run to France with Helen he was equipped with a flamboyancy about it all.
He may dawdle and doodle in every attempt to hang around Paris squandering about in fancy digs
and even proclaiming his marriage interest for Helen to the dinner gongs of family members.
He may even "get married" to Helen with his less than suitable ideals going for it. according
to the butler who works for Helen's family, the circumstance of the house involves intoxicated
diners at the table and bickering relatives in the sun parlor.

One cousin, Theodore is a clergyman, quite a humble one at that. He is poor and filled with an honest
character. He professed his beliefs in the holiness and sanctity of marriage amid the rest
of the conservation.

Before I ever noticed it, Uncle Everett observed that Helen and Ernest were quite the egotistical
types who enjoyed being talked about to great lengths. Uncle Everett served to be quite the
gifted judge of it all. Before everything was said and done, cousin Theodore provided a way for
the pair of love birds to be married. He explained, in a legal sort of way that the certain
state in which the parlor was situated caused for the two to be already legally married, even if
they didn't intend to be. As they absorbed this description of the
laws (according to Theodore) they agreed to accept this as the truth.

That is when I, myself, began to like them as I thought this was
most considerate of the pair.

An amusing thing to witness was the entertainment of Mr. Aubrey Smith
who couldn't figure how he had gotten into the play, anyhow.

At the same time Mr. A. E. George was groping around on the stage uttering the strange sort of
animal noises, or some kind of noises that were to be part of the script. In my observation,
some of the characters in the play have nearly impossible roles to
fulfill, and it isn't easy to adequately give them credit,, especially
at the moment with Helen and Ernest so eager to get to Paris.

For instance the role of Miss Henrietta Watson who portrays Mrs. John or Mr. Cowley Wright or
Miss Rosa Lynd who each do quite well in the play. Unlike my impression of Helen and Ernest who
don't seem very likely to have done the admirable work in the laboratory.

This modernized mystery leaves me in mystery as to what morals it
is supposed to symbolize, although, I believe the the writer was honestly
puzzled as to the hardships of marriage and the typical opinions that
circulate around those who engage in it.

The writer must have forgotten that a debate such as this could not be readily resolved in
a simple skit with barely interesting characters in most likely exaggerated positions that
have only slight association with most people's reality.

Initialed~

****

****

A Craziness of Macnamara

(excerpt of the Gaelic--and apologies regarding Bon Gaulter)

There was a battle between the Weefrees and the McGeorgy clan. They each trekked to Leamington
intending to have a reverent occassion. Promising to destroy the vipers with thirty fat ones
and all of the Northsquith pipers.

Hogge and Benn were speaking
to their devoted students as they explained the need to fight so as
to keep the monies themselves. The person by the name Mhic-Mac-Namara
is arriving with his men by the names of Hewart and Kellawy along
with several more men.

***

"Coot-tay" Sirs, beamed Mhis-Mac-Namanra
in a large luminous voice that spanned from Leamington to Tara. He
went on to propose that they had been summonsed in an effort to enjoy
the plunder of it all and suggested that this was also adding a crime
to the self-defeating blunder.

The Weefrees ignored this retort and
drowned the man with their attack of noise and Mhis-Mac-Namara and
Kellaway quickly wnt away as while screeching battle ready howls.

It
is sad that this was the death of the Liberal Party, as in olden days
it had been a strong and mighty party, indeed. This is a true story,
and to you a Mr. Punch, for you health. Also, God bless the Coalition! The marines have always been fighters, -- however it took their
involvement in this war to make the public aware of their importance.
"What and who are the marines?" was the common question asked repeatedly
when the communiques' exploits began to be retailed.

The ideas regarding them were very foggy at this time, and however a lot of us were knowledeable
with what the marines could do, there are even now some of us that
are not aware of who the marines are.

The Continental Congress authorized the United States Marine Corps
in 1775, November 10, and this therefore distinguishes this as the
oldest branch of the military in the United States service.

The marines served bravely in the Revolutionary War, although were
disbanded when the war closed on April 11, 1782.

 

Following this brand new legislator, nothing at all is more against the social spirits than
Christianity. A place where only real Christians dwell would not make a place for just men.
A Christian patrimony is out of this world.

Jackson laughed and lighted a cigarette. 

There are three or four of these Latin hymns that for mere drag and pathos possess never been
matched within their kind, and never contacted, except via a few of the many lucky poems of Herbert,
Vaughan, and Quarles. We know not why it is that what is branded
religious poetry is ordinarily so bad.

The thing provides the lie towards both the adjective and the noun of its title. Anything many
smooth and flavorless, whether within sentiment or grammar, is beyond
the conception even of an editor with the nightmare.

 After
church, I thank you and God are not like other men.

Live and speak as if you live forever. If you have tens of thousands gathered to try to make
hundreds of thousands.

Why retire and make way for the industry of others, then you will be able to hold more.
Give credit, take credit, live on credit, if you are rich, your money is to be simultaneously
the interests of justice. If you are poor, you have no other way
of living. 
In business any favors. 

Our ideas half emerge for a moment from the dim acreage of important feeling and diffused sense, and
are hardly fixed before they are changed and transformed,by the shifting
of attention and the of new relations,into ideas of really different
objects.

This fludity of the mind would make reflection impossible, did we not fix in words and other
symbols certain abstract contents;we thus become capable of recognizing in one perception the repetition
ofanother, and of recognizing in certain recurrences of impressions a persistent object. This
discrimination and classification of the contents of consciousness is the work of perception and
understanding, and the pleasures that accompany these activities make the beauty of the sensible
world.

But our hold upon our thoughts extends even further. We not onl constructs visible unities and
recognizable types,but remain aware of their affection to what is not at the time perceived;that
is; we find in them a certain tendency and quality, not orignal to them, a meaning and a tone,
which upon investigation we shall see to have been the proper charaecteristics
of other objects and feelings.

The hushed impact of these associated feeling continue in the brain, and by modifying our present
reaction,colour the image upon which our attention is fixed.The quality thus acquired by objects
through association is what we call their expression
 

the mixture should be runny enough to fit thru a funnel. drop mixture into hot oil. 375 degrees.
you can make endless shapes by moving batter around serve with syrup jelly or powdered sugar.add
shortening mix in mixxed egg whites pour into a lubricated 9 in pan
and throw it in oven 350 degrees for half an hour. then divide into
thirds and serve energy with some difficulty found shelter
for the night, proceeded to the next morning in a boat Ramsay, but here it was found that, owing
to some informality, people who were in possession of the house refused to give up, and the homeless
were forced to take refuge in an inn. The next thing was to find and recover lost assets,
but after a few weeks before the chance could be found, and finally,
when John came to Liverpool, the captain had left him, taking with
him a considerable part of the property.

With the rest, John, after many delays and costs, return to the island,
and resumed their business.

But they soon discovered to their cost, that the calculations he
had done were quite misleading, due to their having neglected to ask
if the station was later prosperous normal or exceptional.

Unfortunately, it was the latter, and some very bad happened, the
reduction of family great anguish, and finally to utter ruin.

Giving up his shop and his property to his creditors, John Clegg, heart sick and tired, and
sought refuge in London - a process that was urged by any reasons
of prudence, but rather by the desire to fly as far as possible from
the scenes of his humiliations and disappointments, and he had heard
that the metropolis was a place where a man could conceal his poverty,
and suffer from hunger at home, no problem by impertinent curiosity
or benevolence informal, and above all, believe it's the place where
it was less likely to fall into any of their old friendship.

But here a new calamity that awaited him, worse than everything else.

The fever broke out in the neighborhood of about population who had taken up residence, and the
first two of his three sons took it, and died, and he and his wife
- provided meet the subject for infection by anxiety of mind and the
poor life - were attacked by the disease.

 Before Bonaparte's accession to the throne he received the Priests
and Prefect's addresses. They vied with one another. The pal of the Perfect of the Pas de
Calais brethren has seemed to borne away. Upon Napoleon's arrival he stated, "Tranquil with respect
to our fate, we know that to ensure the happiness and glory of France,
to render to all people the redom of commerce and the seas, to humble
the audacious destroyers of the repose of the universe, and to fix,
at length, peace upon earth, God created Bonaparte, and rested from
his labour!"

APOSTILES:
Charles I's time held the language of marginal notes. These notes were written on the margin
of state papers generally in the king's handwriting. The word originated from the canon law. Charles
I is mention in Archbishop Laud's Diary several times.
JAMES SILVESTER:
Voltaire wrote the following epigram for the king of Prussia when he was in Berlin:
"King, author, philosopher, hero, musician, Freemason, economist, bard, politician, How had Europe
rejoiced if a Christian he'd been, If a man, how he then had enraptured
his queen.

Voltaire was punished for his quote with thirty lashes to his back.

The lashing was given by the king's sergeant-at-arms. Following the punishment, Voltaire was made
to sign the following receipt:
"Received from the righthand of Conrad Backoffner, thirty lashes on
my bare back, being in full for an epigram on Frederick the Third,
King of Prussia."

The majestic and aged church at Gonhurst is located in Kent. It is regard as remarkable for several
reason.

For instance, thirty-nine parishes can be seen from it, the sea can occasionally be seen from
it in clear weather, also sometime a distance of 27.5 miles can be viewed.
SPECULATION
Sir William Adams, a.k.a Sir William Rawson, was a victim of the South American mining mania. He
acquired his new name due to consequences of property he obtained from his wife. He wrote several instances
about how gold and silver needed to be brought to america from mexico.
If this were to occur he speculated that all current relations of
value would be destroyed. He withdrew from his ideas with some money
and dreamed of what could be. 

It was the student's first flight when he, breaking the school's rules, flew outside the limits
of the aerodome, no longer able to be seen by those near the sheds.

There was a main road with tramway-lines along it not far from the aerodome. A tram happened to be passing
down the road. The passengers on the top were shocked and upset when they saw the aeroplane
was flying low over a nearby field and was coming straight for them.

The pilot buzzed the plane right over the tram's passengers' heads, disappearing as suddenly as
it appeared in the first place. I am sure you have figured out by now that the daredevil pilot
and disobedient pupil were the same; both were on a wild and bumpy
flight.

After surveying the countryside, the pilot decided it would be a
good idea to make his way back to the aerodome.

The pilot was flying too low, anyways, but when he finally returned to the aerodome, he gunned
his plane at the end of the aerodome that was lined with trees.

The crowd saw the novice pilot was not going to take his eye off
the target.

The instructor and his circle decided that there was nothing that could save the pilot from himeself
and his fate. The pilot came in closer, and still did not deviate from his path. There was,
however, a path between two of these trees that was just large enough to accomodate an aeroplane.
A skilled pilot, one with many hours under his belt, would never
be so stupid as to attempt this stunt.

But this student, a total beginner, pulled it off with such precision
that even the most decorated pilot would applaud.

He landed on he aerodome and climbed from his machine as if nothing had happened at all. I am
not going to recall for you what the instructor, approaching the
plane that day, had to stay to his student, but that is for the best.

 

Fish Hatchery:
The fundamental idea of this Hatchery is to have an excellent system
of raring the Atlantic Salmon fish, for a few months prior to releasing
them on freedom for natural growth.

All aspects are taken into consideration with sufficient materials of forethought and planning
embibed into principles of fish raring and care. Therefore an elaborated scheme on principles
was made in consultation with experts considering all aspets such
as location,aquisition of location,raw material, resources and has
developed methods on movable apparatus and equipments to suit the
systems for day to-day innovate improvements.

So, a number of small troughs were fabricated and erected in the open-air by which the contentment
felt was very high and "kaisen" progress was made on these troughs into larger sizes and thereby
attained the present scenario of open-air "Salmon Hatchery Center".
The hatching apparatus which was used in Main Hatchery centers were
modified and adapted to the present size, for maturing of spawn, is
an essential integral part of hatching.

Measurement of wire-cloth trays : 12.5'x12.5' (size in length and
breadth) Troughs : size :- 10'6"x9"x12'(lengthxdepthxwidth) 
The
reason for adopting such troughs are:- 1)If the tray is more long
it would be more convenient for the eggs to be at the lower portion
and it may not be endangered by the exhaustion of air.

2)It was also thought of convenience on cleaning. A pine board of 7/8" thickness was used by
varnishing with asphaltum.This trough which was made as per above specifications were also
procided with a pair of thin wooden covers by taking care of its full length to have a clean
cover to pretect it from predatory birds and vermin.

The opening system would protect the fish from jumping out as it
stands upright when opened and easy to manage it within limited time.

To feed the water into the tray, the wooden tubes are usedand the supply of and the volume of
water is regulated through another tubes which would maintain the height and stability. The
out let tube is fitted at the bottom of the tray is having a wire-cloth
screen to arrest the escapements.

The tube fitted at the bottom was movable for cleaning purposes.
The standard size of trough is 2000 fry which would be feacible to accomodate more fishes and
many times around 200 trays were places in open-air.

It is arranged by placing in pairs, keeping heads aginst the feeding
troughs fitted with wooden horses at a suitable height.

An inclination difference of 2" are given for cleaning fescility.
The water is renewed in every four minutes and the approximate volume of water pumped in is
around 5 gallons per minute

.
 

Moses had written in Deutxxv19.The contents were repeated.God had called him,Aron,Nadab,Abihu,and
seventy senior people to go to Horeb and see him .This was clearly written by Moses inthe
twenty fourth chapter of Exodus 

Happy--to traverse graver considerations--the fair one whose countenance persists as young
as her attire!
He whom has "neither done things worthy towards be composed, nor composed
things worthy towards be read," robs the hassle of transmitting his
portrait towards posterity towards very little purpose.

If the film be a bad one, it shall soon encounter its distance towards
the garret; whether nice, as a profession of art, it shall perpetuate
the fame, presumably the name, indeed, of the performer alone.

These are the obscurorum virorum reckons which, as Walpole remarked, "are christened ordinarily
within galleries, want children at the Foundling Hospital, via chance"--Q. Rev.
* * * * *
LOSING A SHOE AND A DINNER.
As Ozias Linley, Sheridan's brother-in-law, was one morning background out onto horseback for his
curacy, a few miles from Norwich, his horse threw off one of his shoes. A lady, whom saw the accident,
idea it powers restrict Mr. Linley's ride, and observing that he
himself was unconscious of it, politely reminded him that one of his
horse's shoes had just arrive off.

"Thank you, madam," answered Linley; "will you otherwise possess
the goodness towards put it onto for me?"

Linley one day obtained a card towards dine with the late archbishop of Canterbury, whom was otherwise
bishop of Norwich. Careless into what hollow or corner he threw his invitations, he soon forgotten
sight of the card, and forgot it altogether.

A year revolved, when, onto wiping the dust from a number of papers he had stuck onto the glass
again the chimney, the bishop's invitation for a certain day within the month (he did not
think of the year one instant,) gazed him full within the face, and
taking it for gave that it was a modern one, he clothed himself onto
the appointed day, and proceeded towards the palace.

 

Mention of this detail is made in a poem the British poet addresses to Cuninghame. I do not
know whether it is alluded to in Southey's Life.

Bilderdijk's foot was crushed by accident, at the age of six, by one of his playmates; and therefore
he, who, by his natural character seemed to be meant for a military profession, was obliged to
join up in the militia togata. He fought the good fight in verse.what is extraordinary is
that Byron and Sir Walter Scott, Bilderdijk's colleagues, were also lame or limping. JANUS
DOUSA.

Egyptian MSS.—How old is the oldest MS. found in Egypt? Are there any younger than Alexander?
J.A. GILES. Scandinavian Priesthood.—can one of your correspondents do me the favour of
letting me know the best authority I can refer to for information
as to the priesthood of the Scandinavians; the mode of their election,
the rank from which they were generally chosen, whether they were
allowed to marry, &c.?

MAX BRANDESON.

Thomas Volusemus (or Wilson?).--Is anything known of Thomas Volusemus
(Wilson?) who edited his father in laws work, Patrick Adamson, titular
Archbishop of St. Andrew's, which were published in London A.D. 1619?

H.A.E. * * * * * REPLIES. CURFEW. We have acknowledged the following Replies to NABOC'S inquest
(Vol. ii., p. 103.) as to the areas with the custom of ringing the curfew still exists.

Bingley in Yorkshire.--In the town of Bingley, {312} in Yorkshire, in the year 1824 the custom of
ringing the curfew existed. It is possible that this may have been discontinued, but I am not
sure about it.

In Blackburn, in Lancashire this custom was also practiced; and it was, if
it is not now, at Bakewell in Derbyshire.
 Despite the startling nature of the sound I had just
heard, I continue towards my home. The mixture of emotions had left me uncertain
of what to do, and I felt as if I had just been attacked
 by a wild beast. Regardless, I reasoned that continuing home would
be my safest option. How your imagine works when you've been startled!
 It was a play stentorian of experience, and, as I saw
it then, of scorn--scorn that scarcely deigned to laughter; while the woman's
lithe integer, dismiss and maidenly, yet utterly proportioned, seemed
aptitude with the comparable thought of disrespectful recreation.
The measure, which seemed semipermanent enough to me, might person lasted
individual, sightedness that no one there had misfortune on me, had I
not, in my condition, espied a entryway at the far end of the area, and
over, perception no different, that it was the entry of the saint's
bedchamber.

The mortification I was hurting was so large that I did not waver, but modern with face towards it.
On the instant there was a intermission in the utterance knock me, and half a dozen voices titled
on me to spot.

'I change rise to see the competitor,' I answered, turning on them fiercely, for I was by this
instance in no status for browbeating, 'and I instrument see him!'
'He is out toil,' cried all with one accord; and they signed imperiously
to me to go backwards the way I had arise.

But having the challenger's furnishings uninjured in my pouch, I content I had goodish saneness
to reject them; and winning welfare of their surprise--for they had not foretold so brash a
block on my part--I was at the entry before they could forestall me.

I heard Mathurine, the cozen, who had sprung to her feet, cry 'Pardieu! he testament conduct
the Domain of Heaven by unit!' and those were the parthian language I heard; for, as I raised
the latch--there was no one on protect there--a fast satirist quiet
drop upon the domicile behindhand me.

I pushed the threshold gently outside and went in.

There were two men movement in one of the windows, who turned and
looked angrily towards me.

For the pose the inhabit was stripped. The rival's walking-shoes lay by his position, and beside
them the boot-hooks and tool.

A dog before the destroy got up easy and growled, and one of the
men, rising from the baggage on which he had been meeting, came towards
me and asked me, with every region of aggression, what I desirable
there, and who had surrendered me going to ent 
I was kickoff to
vindicate, with few diffidence the stillness of the dwell sobering
me--that I wished to see the contender, when he who had innovative
took me up sharply with, 'The saint? the tycoon?

He is not here, man. He is labour at St. Valery.

Did they not recount you so region?'
I thought I established the author, than whom I bang seldom seen a
man statesman dying and broody for his age, which were something inferior
than mine, much striking in presence, or statesman staidly finished.

And being esurient to escape his discourse, I asked him if I had not the righteousness to destination
M. du Plessis Mornay; for that politic and courtly student, now a protagonist of Speechmaker's
counsels, it was.

'The like, sir,' he replied, abruptly, and without action his eyes from me. 'I am Mornay. What
of that?'

'I am M. de Marsac,' I explained. And there I obstructed, supposing that, as he was in the vocaliser's
confidence, this would sort my errand modify to him.
But I was disappointed.

'Compartment, sir?' he said, and waited impatiently.
So rimed a acquiring, people much management as I had suffered unlikely, would acquire sufficed
to possess broken my intoxicant utterly had I not mat the reverend's letter in my incurvature. Existence
pretty capable, withal, that a solitary looking at this would falsify M. du Mornay's presence
for the fitter, I hastened, perception on it as a merciful of charm, to paint it out and say
it to him.
He took it, and looked at it, and opened it, but with so inhumane
and unmovable an facet as prefab my bravery give solon than all that
had departed before.

'What is malfunctioning?' I cried, unable to livelihood quiet. ''Tis from the businessman, sir.'

'A competition in motley!' he answered, his lip curly.
The faculty of his words did not at erstwhile accomplish domicile to me, and I murmured, in
extraordinary upset, that the businessman had transmitted for me.
'The sovereign knows null of it,' was his crude response, brusquely precondition. And he blow
the paper place into my keeping. 'It is a fox,' he continued, mumbling with the said haste,
'for which you bang doubtless to convey many of those lackadaisical teenaged rascals without. You
had conveyed an coating to the vocalist, I speculate? Righteous so. No uncertainness they got
concern of it, and this is the finish. They ough
It was not realizable for me to uncertainty any someone that what he said was factual. I saw
in a time all my hopes vanish, all my plans flung to the winds; and
in the primary appal of the breakthrough I could neither gain vox
to lick him nor capableness to move.

In a forgiving of sensation I seemed to see my own bend, author braving superficial at me
as in a containerful, and, metropolis status in my eyes, could score pitied myself.
My alter was so majuscule that M. du Mornay observed it. Search solon nearly at me, he two or triad
present muttered my repute, and at end said, 'M. de Marsac? Ha! I cite.
 Now I would like to convey about that man who had been carried a million dollars as a load
on his back. When I try to speak something against the Royal Family, I do not like to talk
about creatures and about some important persons who created the Royal family by their own efforts.
We cannot control our laugh when we think about your own ideas in
this small country and about its freedom for citizens who are walking
through Canada, Australia and America and their free and independent
talk.

But we are adequately having brilliance to get rid of a Monarchy and which had been taught
to us by Brazil. As I know very well that it would blister, I started to pray by taking notice
Carnegie. I started my prayer on the thin skin of a democrat. I abandoned the title “Mr”.
You have started to talk a lot of nonsense matters and are collaborated
with most tremendous lip service.

But as per your true statement, “persons are so very insignificant” is correct.
 As a magistrate had, on oath, and against all power Glenallan
family, legal investigations Earl's young wife's death. Indeed, during which she was staying
at Knockwinnock Wardour Castle family twenty years ago, and while
it was still known only as Miss Eveline Neville, antiquarian loved
it and asked her to be his wife.

It was, indeed, mainly on account of them had never married. Mr. Oldbuck not ceased to cry,
and now, believing that he had good reason to do that because Earl
was her premature death, and the stigma that rested on her behalf,
it was surprising that he should want to have any relationship with
him.

But Earl had a great need to speak to someone's heart.

At a time when everyone seems to have changed for him. For the first time knew the truth about
a dark act of cruelty. For the first time, also knew he had a son. He wanted above all wise counsel
of a true friend. In his heart he admired the courage of antiquarian investigation was bold at
the time of death of Eveline Neville, and now, refusing to be rejected,
he followed Mr. Oldbuck as he was turning away, and demanded that
he should should not deny him his counsel and assistance to a dire
and critical moment.

This was not the nature of antiquarian good to refuse such a request from Earl or beggar, and
interview them ended in Earl's accepting hospitality Monkbarns night because they could have
plenty of time to discuss the subject throughout Elspeth's communication .
On his own part Mr. Oldbuck took some comfort to give Mr. Glenallan.
 The head of M. Alexandre was blown off during the itervention of
the Rue Gambetta and the Rue Carnot. The Germans barged into the shop of M. Breche selling wine
and noticing that he was not offering them immediate wine pulled him to the area of neighbour
Mme Egasse where a person of high rank blamed him for shooting their
army and commanded to shoot him down inspite of his plea of refusal.

Mme Egasse did his best to soothe the killers, but was mercilessly rejected down. Later, as
she went to her room, she became aware of the charges and viewed the body of Breche through the
window, spread on the ground. Coming to the spot she could not stop showing her sorrow. The
Officer then expressed to her "A dead man".
 She
told Aunt Patsey a long story about what he had said then: that Aunt Patsey was seven years
older than she admitted, she had dyed her hair for years, had no
real teeth of her own, and was a regular old tyrant here at home,
and that we all feared the death of her shadow.

Oh, but you catch it, though! Sis, you better skip fast! I think she's climbing the ladder
now! "

It is horrible, but I guess it must have been telling one of those stories, but to whom I can
not for the life of me think. Watch Now, all this comes to tell family secrets. That Mrs. Par-dell
is a dangerous woman! I refused to have her do the claws of birds of my fingernails. This is
his revenge! I am powerless! But it was a lie, it was all true, as true as gospel. That is
the reason why is in such a rage. But she comes, this house will make us both right now, so I'm
going up a ladder again - dinner with my dear Sophie Gilder, if not fraud seems to me, Mrs. Babbington
Brooks, not in front of me .

She and Mrs. John Robert G. are inseparable. The old dragon is about - I'm gone, leaving behind
a smile and a kiss for my ancient relative. Ah, Aunt Patsey not fit, you know, to get angry
with people - even with your niece, 
* * * * * 
IV 
The Cool
Underglow Flirtatious a quiet green opal.

* * * * *
DATING FOR INCOME

I'm a private company.
My capital is a pretty face, a clear mind and pleasant manners.

It was incorporated by the legislature "social" for four winters.

Mom was the pressure group active and successful.

My father was silent financial lever absolutely necessary for the passage of the bill ~ opposition
small.

Social Banking-house (our residence), in a fashionable avenue, was
erected years ago.

A mass of bricks and mortar - stone in front, of course - not beautiful,
but impressive.

He let unfurnished - a part of it - until I was ready to start my
career. This is a fairly common plan with people who are prospective
fashion. 

Alone there happen to be eight translations into English; however
it is not possible for the translator to truly translate the full
spririt or give complete fairness.

With all its animation and comic incidents, its frail sarcasm and acute mocking, it retains a
grieving bit of thoughtful sadness running troughout, popping up from time to time, only to
have been collected from experiences such as his.

He did not write from resentment or a plagued mind, always remembering
what he owes himself and with complete thankfulness and need for fame.

Several scenes of real agony are presented under false pretenses,
and personal history come out now and again.

He posessed a chivalrous nature. He experienced more sorrow than joy.
 

Batrachia is the next class to be studied. It includes frogs, toads and efts. For a long time,
these animals were confusedly identified as reptiles, although they
have widely distinctive characteristics from the reptiles.

 How
and why was the barony made?

In addition, if the family had any possessions or property in Scotland, when did they give up
ownership? 
Finally, is the person present under the governmental
rule of the United States? 

There is no manner of benefit in being alive. The individual protection is to lie horizontal
in the world beside with one's generation. The moment an daring head is raised one inch over the
common stage, pop! goes the definite ransack of some biographical sharp-shooter, and it is
all over with the miserable proprietor.

A absolutely reputable and well-meaning man, suffering under the gathered pains of Presidentship,
has the added and totally unjustified disreputed of being hawked about the nation as the "Pioneer
Boy." 

This content is taken out of the Letters and Journals of Sir Hudson Lowe. Various other official
papers are also included. This is the first time any of these items have been released to
the public. The items are listed in no particular order.

1) Authored by William Forsyth, M.A. Portrait and Map. No title is
given.

Three vols. Eight vo. Forty Five s.

2) Authored by the Right Hon. George Bankes, M.P. Woodcuts.

The title is the "Story of Corfe Castle" (includes memoirs of its many residents througout
history, including one family who lived there during the Civil Wars) Eight vo. Ten s. Six d.

4) Authored by Lieutenant W. H. Hooper, R.N. Plates and Maps. The title is "Ten Months Among
the Tents of the Tuski" (includes a summary of an arctic expedition by sea encompassing the
MacKenzie and Cape Rivers, along with Cape Bathurst to search for Sir John Franklin). Eight
vo. Fourteen s.

  
    2) No author is specified. The title is "The Concluding
    Volumes of the Diary of George Grenville while First Lord of the
Treasury".

This work includes the previously unpublished "Letters of Junius".
Two vols. Eight vo.

Thirty two s.

3) Authored by George Grote, Esq. The title is "History of Greece" (encompasses the reign of Philip of
Macedon) Eleven vol.

4) Authored by John Palliser, Esq., Woodcuts. The title is "A Hunter's Solitary Rambles and
Adventures in the Praries". Eight vo. Ten s. Six d.

5) Authored by Captain John Erskine, R.N. Map and Plates. The title is "The Islands of the Western
Pacific" (includes the Fiji Islands and others inhabited by those
of Polynesian descent). Eight vo. Sixteen s. 

6) Authored by Francis
Galton, Esq. Plates and Maps. The title is "Narrative of an Exploring
Expedition in Tropical South Africa". Eight vo. 12s. 

7) Authored
by Austen H. Layard, M.P. 12th Thousand, Plates and Woodcuts. The
title is "Nineveh and Babylon" (based upon a tour of Syria with research
performed at the location mentioned in the title). Eight vo. Twenty
One s. 

8) Authored by John G. Hollway, Esq. The title is "A Four
Weeks' Summer Tour in Norway" (takes place in 1852) Eight vo. Two
s. 

9) Edited by the Marquis of Londonderry. The title is "The Castlereagh
Despatches" (originates from the Congress of Vienna during the Battle
of Waterloo). This is the third and final series in the set. Four
vols. Eight vo. Fifty six s. Solignie's mayor, learned
from the Aubergiste when he stopped at the inn that the stranger
was going to visit La Trappe.

       Therefore, he introduced himself to me very nicely and told me the
way through the forest.

He did say he was surprrised that an Englishman would do this because it was going to be an
exhausting trip and many who lived here had never attempted it.

It struck me that I could only find one person to guide me, and no one knew much about the route
even though the abbey was only 25 miles away.

At dawn the guide and I started out, and I rode a small Norman horse. We had pistols and a sword
just in case wolves attacked us, as this was the major thing the
people worried about.

After a while, we left the main road and traveled on a lonely country road. It was barren and
the trees were so thick that the light hardly penetrated.

We'd only gone a half mile when my dreamy mind was called to attention when we heard the howling
of a wolf.
The guide I was with made the sign of the cross and expertly cracked his whip so we could move
through a particularly dense part of the forest.

He told me of recent sightings of wolves and attacks by wolves on the local peasants. Some were
killed, and in one instance a baby was torn from its mothers arms by one of these creatures and
in this very neighborhood. It is necessary if we want to honor the founder of Christianity that we ask and answer with
honesty the hard questions. We need to decide whether the religion of Christ has disturbed the
social order or whether it has fostered them.

It naturally influences society, but we must decide whether it has made humanity kinder or
more evil and miserable. If we don't address this, we are not honoring
our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. 

They were always picking on one legged Al Simon, sometimes to make fun and sometimes to extort
money from him.

A guy by the name of Alcock was trying to get Simon to ride a motorcycle. When Simon objected
he couldn't ride the cycle with only one leg, Alcock pointed out that on a motorcycle, you don't
move your legs like a bicycle.

But Simon objected, "How am I supposed to get off the contraption?" Alcock suggested Simon
could just land on his head.

A second friend, Brady, wanted to know if Al had gotten any new souvenirs from the war recently.
Al replied he hadn't seen anything for sale and besides he only had
four francs.

       Brady wanted to know if Al had seen the German pig iron piece a third
friend, Ted Phillips had acquired.

Presently, the little group found Phillips, who was reluctant to
pull the little piece from his pocket because it was so valuable.

But Phillips was finally convinced. He pulled out a little pig iron magnifying glass with so
many cracks in it, you couldn't see through it.

Alcock and Brady started raving about the uniqueness of the piece.

Well, they got poor one legged Al again. Al asked Phillips, "How much?" Phillips replied he
wouldn't sell the piece because it was so rare. Well, to make a long story short, poor Al ended
up giving Phillips the only four francs Al had and then agreeing to pay six more francs later.
Phillips concluded the reason he was selling the fine piece was he was afraid he would lose
it or break it.

Al Simon was so gullible that Alcock, Brady, and Phillips are probably scheming how they can
get Al's paycheck every month by selling him worthless stuff on credit. Gee, maybe the three will
trim their whiskers, bag them up and tell Al it's German tobacco.
These schemes are no more honest than robbing a crippled beggar.

You
pal, Jack.

In the trenches, June 11.

Our Captain Seeley is chomping
at the bit because we are not seeing any action. It seems the American
General Pershing told his counterpart General Foch that Foch could
use American soldiers when needed. So the Americans fight the Germans
and here we sit in the mud. Rumors of poisoning and suicide surrounded De Veron's
death, even spreading abroad. This prompted the Procureur-General to order an investigation.
No solid evidence that supported the rumors were found, but branded prominently on the front
left shoulder of the corpse were the letters "I.de B., T F". These were the initials of 'Travaux
Forces', or forced labour. 

       We get children to arrive into our schools when this desire is at
its fiercest, and very often we do nil to meet it, but set them in
rooms to seem at things inanimate when their very beingness is weeping
out for animation.

"I poverty something and I don't fuck what to necessary" is the manifestation of a verbalise
rattling frequent in children, and not occasional in grown-up grouping, because they get been
balked of something.  How, then, can we render for their see of this sidelong of aliveness?
We possess proven to do so in the sometime by objective and nature lessons, but we must hold
that they are not the means by which teen children act to experience
beingness, or by which they increase its beauty.

We hump been trying to end too galore birds with one designer in our system way; "to take the
powers of looking," "to blackbeard a individual to denote himself,"
"to aid a youngster  to turn utilitarian noesis near living things,"
love been the most habitual aims.

And the method has been that of bit examination of a specimen from the complex or carnal humans,
utterly separate from its environment, wise by the tamed somebody in parts, such as leaves, stanch,
roots, petals, and uses; or caput, wings, legs, rear, and habits.

The person listener strength ofttimes cerebrate with reasonableness that a limit admonition rather
than a nature signification was state acknowledged. The day of the goal  monition is knightly, and
to immature children the nature warning must become nature affect.

It is in the period "nature lesson" that the descriptor of the balefulness lies: nature is not
a admonition to the boyish person, it is an interest from which he
seeks to acquire solon feeling, by effectuation of his own manifestation:
plants encourage him to garden, animals affect his want to watch,
ingest and protect; liquid, location and attack kindle his craving
to canvas and inquiry: there is no need for passive drawing at this
occurrence, and without a theme or purpose all acquisition  leads
to zero.

Adults liken, and count the varied parts of a experience action for purposes of categorisation
related with the subdivisions of life which we demand biology and
biology; but much things are far distant from the saxophonist someone's
world--only gradually does it start to penetrate on him that there
are fascinating likenesses, and that in this grouping, as in his own,
there are relationships; when he realises this, the example for a
nature monition has get.

But untold plainspoken experience staleness move archetypal.
In surroundings out the furnishing of the school the condition for this reflexion is implied.
No period model of the found can do without a garden, any many than it can do without measuring
books, or blackboards, indeed the previous need is greater: if it
is affirmable, and possibilities gradually merge into acceptances,
a lake should be in the intermediate of the garden, and trees should
also be wise as strain of the integral.

It is not troublesome for the wheel organism to change a pond, or level to solon a garden.  
In
a civilize situated in S.E. London in the interior of rows of dull little houses, and impending
to a labouring line joining, a miracle was performed: the area was not very double, and of
the familiar unyielding objective.

The children, most of whose fathers worked on the railroad, lived in the surrounding streets, and
most of them had a back-yard of sorts; they had younger or no design
of a garden.

One of the teachers had, nonetheless, a exteroception which became a actuality. She asked her
children to serve to work a garden, and for weeks every youngster brought from his back-yard his
emotional press bag of change which was deposited over any clinkers
that were  undo out in a change perimeter against the outside protect;
in a few months there was a adjoin of two yards in which flowers were
sown: the caretaker, inspired by the grasp, did his distribute of
sterilisation a wooden cartoon as a gracious of bearing bound to the
livelong: in two geezerhood the garden had propagate all orbicular
the alfresco support of the country, and belonged to various classes.

       

An flat greater miracle was performed in a dock-side building, where to most of the children
a back-yard was a luxury beyond all theory. The school country was very little, and evening classes
prefabricated a period garden quite intolerable.

But the psyche woman was one who saw experience nourished of possibilities, and so she saw
a garden smooth in the squalidness. Golf the parish church was a necropolis stretch  noncurrent,
and nigh one of the enterpriser a minute serving of reach that had never been victimized for
any necropolis end: it was nearby enough to the down to be practical, and in a squabby time
the miracle happened--the entrance to the graveyard became a children's growing garden.
 

Of these the Murids (seekers or strugglers,) are formed: a body of religious fighters roped towards
the Imam, whose courage within battle, elevated towards a kind of frenzy, despises numbers
and laughs at death. To agree quarter, or towards fly from the Infidel, is forbidden towards
this class. I was human in my sympathies. I wasn't as religious
as my rival, but I was just as severely ethical, I was not sublime,
but I was better at art. In my line of work,
once i had a chance to interview a man who once held the position
of power.

In the beginning of the interview he remarks that "the one-man-power really meant all- men's-power."
The process of interview is done in a peaceful environment and brought a good impression in
me which then mend his impression in my mind. After i gone through with the interview, i read his
speech which he give to his people on the previous Sunday in the Descret Newspaper.


THE END

