And yet in the gardens that leaned to the lake the tranquillity he had anticipated eluded and
declined to be detained. Rumors that Herodias collected came to him with the stamp of Rome.
One of his brothers was plotting against him; another, though in exile, was plotting too. It
was the Herod blood, his wife said; and, with the intemperance of a woman whose ambition has
been deceived, she taunted him with his plebeian descent. “Your grandfather was a sweep at
Ascalon, a eunuch at that,” she had remarked; and the tetrarch, by way of reply, had been obliged
to content himself by asking how, in that case, he could have been grandfather at all.

But latterly a new source of inquietude had come. At Magdala, Capharnahum, Bethsaïda, there,
within the throw of a stone, was a Nazarene going about inciting the peasants to revolt. It
was very vexatious, and he told himself that when an annoyance fades another appears. Life,
it occurred to him, was a brier with renascent thorns. And now, as he gargled the wine that
left a pink foam on his lips, even that irritation lapsed in the perplexing absence of Pahul.

Pahul was a butler of his, a Greek whom he had picked up one adventurous night in Rome, who
had made himself useful, whom he had attached to his household, whom he consulted, and on whom
he relied. Early that day he had sent him off with instructions to run the demagogue to earth,
to listen, to question if need were, and to hurry back and report. But as yet he had not returned.
The day was fading, and on the amphitheatre which the hills made the sun seemed to balance
itself, the disk blood-red. The lemurs had tired, perhaps; their yellow eyes and circled tails
had gone; the bear had been led away; only the multicolored ape remained, gnawing now with
little plaintive moans at a bit of fruit which he held suspiciously in his wrinkled hand.

Presently a star appeared and quivered, then another came, and though overhead were streaks
of pink, and, where the sun had been, a violence of red and orange, the east retained its cobalt,
night still was remote—an echo of crotals from the neighboring faubourg, the cry of elephants
impatient for their fodder, alone indicating that a day was dead.

In the charm of the encroaching twilight the irritation of the tetrarch waned and decreased.
He lost himself in memories of the princess who had been his bride, and he wondered were it
possible that, despite the irrevocable, he was never to see, to speak, to hold her to him again.
Truly her grievance was unmeasurable, the more so even that she had not deigned to utter so
much as a reproach. At the rumor of his treachery she had betaken herself to the solitudes,
where Aretas her father was king, and had there remained girt in that unmurmuring silence which
nobility raises as a barrier between outrage and itself, and which the desert is alone competent
to suggest.

“It is he!”

The tetrarch started so abruptly that he narrowly missed the jar at his side. On noiseless
sandals Pahul had approached, and stood before him nodding his head with an air of assured
conviction. The ape had fled and a stork stepped gingerly away.

“It is he,” the Greek repeated—“John the Baptist.”

Antipas plucked at his beard. “But he is dead,” he gasped; “I beheaded him. What nonsense you
talk!”

“It is he, I tell you, only grown younger. I found him in the synagogue.”

“Where? what synagogue?”

Pahul made a gesture. “At Capharnahum,” he answered, and gazed in the tetrarch’s face. He was
slight of form and regular of feature. As a lad he had crossed bare-handed from Cumæ to Rhegium,
and from there drifted to Rome, where he started a commerce in Bœtican girls which had so far
prospered that he bought two vessels to carry the freight. Unfortunately the vessels met in
a storm and sank. Then he became a hanger-on of the circus; in idle moments a tout. It was
in the latter capacity that Antipas met him, and, pleased with his shrewdness and perfect corruption,
had attached him to his house. This had occurred in years previous, and as yet Antipas had
found no cause to regret the trust imposed. He was a useful braggart, idle, familiar, and discreet;
and he had acquired the dialect of the country with surprising ease.

“There were any number of people,” Pahul continued. “Some said he was the son of Joseph, the
son of——”

“But he, what did he say? How tiresome you are!”

“Ah!” And Pahul swung his arms. “Who is Mammon?”

“Mammon? Mammon? How do I know? Plutus, I suppose. What about him?”

“And who is Satan?”

“Satan? Satan is a—He’s a Jew god. Why? But what do you mean by asking me questions?”

Pahul nodded absently. “I heard him say,” he continued, “that no man could serve God and Mammon.
At first I thought he meant you. It was this way. I got into conversation with a friend of
his, a man named Judas. He told me any number of things about him, that he cured the sick——”

“Bah! Some Greek physician.”

“That he walks on the sea——”

“Nonsense!”

“That he turns water into wine, feeds the multitude, raises the dead——”

“Raises the dead!” And the tetrarch added in the sotto voce of thought, “So did Elijah.”

“That he had been in the desert——”

“With Aretas?”

“No; I questioned him on that point. He had never heard of Aretas, but he said that in the
desert this Satan had come and offered him—what do you suppose? The empire of the earth!”

Antipas shook with fright. “It must have been Aretas.”

“But that he had refused.”

“Then it is John.”

“There, you see.” And Pahul dandled himself with the air of one who is master of logic. “That’s
what I said myself. I said this: ‘If he can raise the dead, he can raise himself.’ ”

“It is John,” the tetrarch repeated.

“I am sure of it,” the butler continued. “But he did not say so. Judas didn’t either. On the
contrary, he declared he was not. He said John was not good enough to carry his shoes. I saw
through that, though,” and Pahul leered; “he knew whom I was, and he lied to protect his friend.
I of course pretended to believe him.”

“Quite right,” said the tetrarch.

“Yes, I played the fool. H’m, where was I? Oh, I asked Judas who then his friend was, but he
went over to where a woman stood; he spoke to her; she moved away. Some of the others seemed
to reprove him. I would have followed, but at that moment his friend stood up; a khazzan offered
him a scroll, but he waved it aside; then some one asked him a question which I did not catch;
another spoke to him; a third interrupted; he seemed to be arguing with them. I was too far
away to hear well, and I got nearer; then I heard him say, ‘I am the bread of life.’ Now, what
did he mean by that?”

Antipas had no explanation to offer.

“Then,” Pahul continued, “he said he had come down from heaven. A man near me exclaimed, ‘He
is the Messiah;’ but others——”

“The Messiah!” echoed the tetrarch. For a moment his thoughts stammered, then at once he was
back in the citadel. On one side was the procurator, on the other the emir of Tadmor. In front
of him was a drunken rabble, wrangling Pharisees, and one man dominating the din with an announcement
of the Messiah’s approach. The murmur of lutes threaded through it all; and now, as his thoughts
deviated, he wondered could that announcement have been the truth.

