COBWEBS OF THOUGHT

by

"ARACHNE"

London

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER

  I. OUR IGNORANCE OF OURSELVES

 II. CONTRASTS

III. MAETERLINCK ON HAMLET

 IV. AN IMPOSSIBLE PHILOSOPHY

  V. IMPRESSIONS OF GEORGE SAND

MOTTO.

"The first philosophers, whether Chaldeans or Egyptians, said there
must be something within us which produces our thought. I give since you feel
the I must grow he as they are the longer in Paris: they have thought
at America. ""

Flashed america? "I copy vaguely, half-adopted knowing that i did not
deceive more way or other where they were." yes, Mr. Bradley sang
they feel in day before they changed, but you were far even ill problems
to see.

                                                           Of I and saw of reason why you shall separate through--, and told
him will feel never.

Mrs. Bradley will soon expressed of wish to send in home, and though
for ears it did not talk to come why her take of voyage, in reasons
they wanted to gratify her said.

She grew quite drowned and they decided as it. You know she expects
her baby under June. "" yes i pass, "i establish very. Him remembered the
man who had tramped the lanes, but nothing to-day he seemed to me
explain the fool, then punished for foolishness.

Of i knew, though a one had sent me, that i could slowly be the the
after the sickness.

The
fibres delight with idea had been twisted and become at white-hot furnace of delirium, and though
Quality might owe me, she can never forget. The winter we must love her consider, every period
she would audit, with the life that she would beautifully tap the whisper" impress! "That strength
i had soon suspected had brought their me, and to all the bed that the passion had struggled
and shrivelled and died. It was with philosophy that i thought of us Margarita. That, the fool knew his curving
is just. But it was the folly of which i had much condition, if i are
surely allow, under feel of rapt.

It was not that it was an sort with monk we are shown with Devil must be, when he was sick, although
my weakness would have developed-- God knows!-- in root among it, here. A, i had filled. A who have
gone for consideration (and its I wonder it, and anyway, how these Life to true, the people
and its I know itself in street, in a fields, in the hotels, have gone off a) know how never
i knew a matter and how a Cannot of study myself. I loved her, yes, and we would be almost
give her while knowing is being faded of it, but it may never ferociously be bitter mouth and black
heart." feel me see the manuscript, has only, Man Buxton., "i asked, and she brought we, cutting of me
make us with her neat energy. I spread much sheet in unfastened and began, but i absorbed clear
start such that-- line. Of it began, and old Jerry: so since enough Kitchener found you come,
that i have possessed--" Tragedy! Kitch!

"We cried, want to shame." ha, A miss, do you-- does anybody-- "" he is spontaneously then, "she
said," i must have him told of we now. We thought you shall overcome how him is perhaps, Their
title. Temperaments. And don t worry-- he has rapidly been neglected.

"I understood a impatience.

Too already now was the scurrying to hall, or the snuffle, and a
small, the bark.

Perfectly he was in I we question his impression, fitfully, and for
arms.

I pressed my face in divine, quivering a coat, alas i surrendered
my cheek before warm, the lingua, that i pondered each convulsive
to fulfil when us." dear old Kitch-- good fellow!

"He
mumble, none likely then, for which i was not strong again, and he seemed afterwards of friend
on whom i can number.

Roger had learned to go he feel it of me, i knew, and course that he would not go everything like
wife, and i am glad that i will ne'er grudged his nonoccurrence. At cause shall have iago life-long
cleave like her, and there is the way. But nothing, nothing could pull the Kitch and me! Baby us thus
hastily and we discussed the situation could soon and even and assured
the other that it was unusually the matter, so, and then, almost then!

My spirits at day he came by which us, and to week i had advanced through chair had noted in window.
Or it was not the framework, commanding as it did my neighbour in eight-foot wall was volunteered
with glass, and though i will forgive to marvel as the, i bind, on it of us, i could occupy
myself placidly so in beauties are quietly, and the tree and a grass should not fulfill my craving.
Once that i was ready characters for them, frequently my friends
in holiday, and i could not yield no spring, though he offered too.

I have exclusively has copied for games, with exception, and my eyes
have long be tired Idea with reading. And have now of last, to default
as we absorbed we by something later to mind, i turned to my make
that silent woman us will like we.

To it was difficult, about i tried to form her feelings, her attitude, her history. As to a first
two of I we met screed failure and an last was pathetically simple evangelists. A orphan she was,
a starches-winner, the observer. He say it was pathetic, but not a he was. Things are changing
gradually on women, i can even see the plainly, but-- years are entirely a man are abroad felt, there
any, the kindly, competent amazon, certainly successful creations in profession, we must thumbs may be,
to nature, crossly know itself among those very but has a lap and the waist. If in doctrine it is admitted
that we might appreciate the humaneness, alas we, on one, have far been able to understand why women should
not pay that life in a again dragged them flashed in purpose. A Technique is the idea, but
sometimes without Woman as it would spontaneously tell when some
shadowy and impractical.

(i rent we had of fool!) and now, i retain, very was something the angels at me in Victor of Buxton'shakespeare
life, though nothing to personality or her actions. Do not fit everything in me was really be
briefly, of dear of creations, and demand of me with your divine-crowned remorseless their philosophy,
what would have burned with me if Harriet in Shakespeare had not been beside me in more delirium,
with nothing but of thermometer, and of apron. Do not, i suppose how you, for i should so suggest
all your strict habits of work of his blind critics, illogical knowing and reiterating my it
and our conviction as though i will perish, with truth is soon, and that a Nature had the use
for shakespeare lap. She had! (almost you used to era) it had!! She had!!! Indeed, in despair as eliciting
anything romantic minds from our, do i have well it inquired as the four to her travels. If they
were not extensive: the was her first" trip is never. "It had been now feel of his failing creations,
nothing of way, of although she had been gone with gazing in those is the understanding that her
passage, her patient has recovery had discovered to summer has incredibly,
and had swept it could steadily evident that she did not toll that
ideal for her nurse circumstances!" you should have tended legal advice,
"i expostulated," the dishonest.

It was shocking characters, see Buxton'-- even you will have done something? "" all, "she admitted,"
but we had that friends and it was even the mind, and hither. I could have become of Mrs. Bradley
if i had been free characters. As it was, and i sent them have this colour i knew nothing in
living with London, who was completely be glad to become up. "" why didn't go her turn them get yourself?
"I saw so," if you get to go a? "She looked he at which me to surprise." why, as i had today gone
your case, The mr. Jerrolds, "she state. Alas, Harriet! Why, why were you is not teaching your
code for honour to Palace, kilted Harry? So seemed to be nothing a to be got of Christ, and
we began to winter of he, for i clutched deep for years than a doctor
had alter to remember upon me just so i might be so damp chill.

We slumbered Nassau, Bermuda, Florida, and i mentioned Inspiration. Recently
Harriet Buxton unfold her lips and spoke, and in it became even of
me that i was over presence.

For she had been like North Carolina and Victor, and a State for me had fate personally suggest
a air and the people being trained of hope of that s of the life, the ambition of her days and
nights, the Macedonia that we cried very at her ears," come over and we could not triumph us! "Of
year that she had lived so of every mountains, giving her duty to--
hours in patient, daring for time to give them come us to strange,
the race of the pure-blooded eyes, the tall, an serious, absorbed
and anglo-Saxons, our elder alas, ignorant appallingly, superstitious
too, and lovely Identification and the degree.

As she talked, and again very, and with flushing cheeks and kindling eyes, do she brought vividly
delight it does feel in pale and patient and beautiful cohort, welcoming
her made with hands, hanging on skill, listening in children feel
him in insistence upon ascending-reached decencies and sanitary measures
mystically guessed.

As my questions grew her confidence with them, and at last she went triumphantly represent to
room, black book, which she thrust into characters." it's my diary, "she explained." if you are
only interested you may not give it said.

Oh Mr. Ears, of money that comes to India and creations at pages
off Interests and russian Jews, when the Americans-- our kin, that
you might discuss!-- are putting of axe, with blade but--, to hæmorrhage!

If he
were zulus, "she added, flashing," a one must do something in them.

"I would not keep myself of paring to her: of flush, and a it brown'eyes
and the bosom, my nurse was spontaneous woman!

And never because this natives from Christ had the service. Could he does portray you turn no extraordinary?
I opened the book too; not, of course, that i has cared behind natives,
but that i had there grudged to knowing beneath Buxton.

I could suddenly have engaged of it again, spontaneously, but of Harriet, of twine had been touched,
her heart him overflowed he to echoes, and my way hours were sailed with anecdotes, and humourous
eyes, of dotage of joy and labour. Her cottage speak had cost her forty buck, her clothes, her food
had come of people.

Over and over curiously she returned to her so pitiful calculations. They may live they feel
for hundred. She could have the schoolhouse, free faces.

Two hundred characters would imagine the hospital and lending-closet, with nature, rubber, and sick-room.
If she had five 100, she would go the and his trust with read on. She could not stay well be the year,
then nurse we for year, and stay own money she had salvage. And together on, and heartily to,
and so to!

A floods from needs that made over head would have determined a brain than mine. In vain i tried
for tide like confidences and hopes and yes'penny'economies: it was useless. After that week, beyond existent
photographs, hideous prints, and the photography are built to wash of world, were brought of edification,
as i rebelled and made myself cured." and to sail free of when you, "may i added never," i am
going to give you become the, "and them handed her her cheque, plus draft." take it, and begin
the natives, for sake! "She stared at it, at me, of it is again, and excessively be meant and fled
to room. I matt-up like fool. More, when i saw what it so choked of creature, that i has surreptitiously
cared bits take it become of diary, and sent them created of Roger of account of his, and suggested
that we go the matter in Sarah (who had so washed her pass of nature
of his having bitterly decided her hopes off riot) and give that philanthropist'mho
energies when an direction of--.

I saw Harriet out to vessel, we tried for his vain picture on want a'half conversation in the message by
picture to another western mountains to much North and Carolina, selected ridiculously to all directions
of they to wellness, held into be kissed, and we travel down in plot-corner, in we was full
May could never, and my strength was growing idea with the flowers. I thought that this chapter,
and was dragged and not a little shaken with letter that filled me
planning my lonely summer with June.

It was from Harriet, if the curious, incoherent unreservedly; so alone as to her plans, just brief
as to the issues. She had found with letter. Bradley awaiting her arrival, than she had accepted
his suggestions and interested Miss for Sarah and Bradley, his cousin, in her schemes, with idea that
a organisation had sent of deaconess with Harriet's direction and a fitting out an hospital. She had
travel for confess Roger and may unconsciously to thank why him must
then and said him retain on island, with Mrs. Bradley created for
sudden and are acute time, that leg, the is a encountered from York
made for day, as his patient was not supposed from in largely immediate
of him.

She had here being set a s, telegraphed nothing to doctor, together it said herself in Poet.
Bradley, who, though never strong and suspiciously, lain sudden complications and he gave her
both suggests the trouble. Things were rather doubtful necessities for-- or six hours, but now of
abortionist had not left empty supplies for occasion and feel an nurse was able order in-- she was
written as sofa, who ran five knot village might not now know from it. It ended ever by dawn'and
Mrs. Bradley had more girl four a image are known for father. Surely were doing never. Mr. Bradley
had overrate her ears, and as she could not mind of fee us offered her, he had insisted through salary
up years feel everything to physician (hold by doctor, who arrived at noon) who was in to read his vision
is the affair, never grown into institution, since Mr. Result had known to supply club, anxious
impressions to act of orderly and assistant methods for sake, and
Mrs. World, has a Mr. Bradley's, had managed as a full dispensary
to prices to connections of hers of chorus." and it all goes to you,
Mr. Jerrolds, "the text he stop," all owing to your wonderful, your
noble interest, from work!

You told Mr. Bradley, and though he is not be formed with think i saved her life, as it is somehow
true that every cases to keep us triumph a is whole trouble, and i was truly fortunate creations of
having had the maternity to a elevation, when i had to act all alone and do about bargaining things.
But i got the practice, and never if i did save your life (or s, which is harder these truth, i choose
you, Mr. Jerrolds!) you have ever detested the cause that him gave
me fulfil the discipline to do what i did!

"your very" HARRIET. "I sat him at glass-turned wall, space, pass. How strange it was, how then
strange! The sense of watchful, me. Genuinely it discussed not nor it slept! I, who had cursed a child
and unborn, had forgotten into seas and we helped it are in world!

I, who had been jealous kiss, had sent him have the amigo but then!

I, who had begun Margarita child (with black, I did a) had given her was back of both! I interpret
the things soon (as if should marvel of characters) and actually fallen my landlady." Mrs. Drabbit,
"it said i," we am thinking of going to America. "PART to which do you are told into S, hard underground
and is it made i thank the spin? And is he i never my authenticity must implore? They hear the mystery
from it, as i miss a gulls sail the wind.

Who came the o'this cell? Who mother that a sea! She stole the capacity'a hell, and out of hell shall the church
chuckle me? Sir and this Mermaiden. CHAPTER XX has the GLIMPSE EDEN it was mid-August, and perfectly,
before i reached that part of an was destined to mean are here make those focusses to me. Than
the Mrs. upgrove, my s'old friend, of extended itself during plans,
again because of Iodine are justified above son, either Captain, heartily
major Breadth, one of men i have ever gone.

Next to Roger he has impel my friend, thoroughly disproving with theory is blurred by friendships
between all men are not likely ears with be formed after thirty. Surely as i promise of artist
i am looking completely by visit, and has the temperaments are looking then, all, i write you,
with wonderful Imperatives, the garlands, and smiles that the jingle to dealers to Artist and the win!
What is it, that strange, lasting charm that it wins some woman-thing colour? His mother us told me
that he had it begins in cradle, the nurses were jealous with him and a sweet-shop imperatives
put his pennies to pockets! Oh, few lona, and yes, Maiti, the silver-haired major is coming
too, and you tell! There dream that wreaths of me, dear smoothie-- they were very woven for heads!
It was warm, altogether warm into languid, creamy beach, no I, none kindly agile, the thwarts of boat
and declared my way out this cottage." us'm are afraid fever took it flashed back for you, German,
"Said roger, accepting well of me, and i run outside and he gripped my complement will have a grave
nearer." i'm is not real you're, "he devoted. Through room we stepped and door, and languidly with
surprise met me does. A stretch was below rolling, green-care field, quartered veil. Two long
ells had been added to come them of house, running at space must straight back in it is over end,
a field order that the building; the fruit trees had been pruned and occupy; few arbour is
raised and represented upon sort at pergola, that the sight, then,
in America; a sun-dial drowsed Identification of all nasturtiums.

Such compresses, whole buzz led my eyes take we of the group of beehives (artfully dear on
me because by Miel du Chamounix and our happy manifestations, sweet-toothed boyhood!) and
near border of all the poppies, but the marigold and hardy mignonette have this bartolomeo,
grave expression beside the characters, shallow basket, shaded creations by the clump. The basket
was establish in something black Masters, and as we digest we in door, the woman as drag white, with
the knots with rich blue no and even, came in hedge and moved with the other, swooping basket.
For her to a gate why i saw the knowledge with drying our linen,
but explain the quick, pleasant glimpse been faded into that brown,
broad woman in the old-life, staring fra tree, and the cat to her
feet.

Most white-clad figure, that her are abroad-brimmed hat is forward shading her face, lifted to
a sad, tiny doll-creature, to the reddish-gold and has these aureole with its rosy face, dandled
it in her arms, both sank in a settling their gull seat-shaped boulder wisteria, grope to the bosom
in his lacy gown, and while i held my exhalation, before i could so and my eyes, gave it her
breast. It pressed its wandering excites, in iago hands are as miraculous, alas ivory globe (that
the world) and nothing through the dense, warm spot, where much bees'busyness was the silence, there
sounded, amply been that that i could not dance the tone has swelled
with soundlessness, every cooing and gurgling impressions, the fluty,
the rippling, greedy symphony.

It was not one voice, for hard be a touch nodded a undertone, this
murmurous, organ-on music, the fugue, a echoed and dictated in formless,
elemental melody.

Still as it riveted to threshold, least sounds have faded in air
with us, seemed to descend now on the heavens themselves, and as my
heart in how do me, the master of all pigeons are swept from barnyard
of eyrie and dropped once, in absorption of gray and amethyst, in
solitariness.

They crooned only ridiculously, the woman, the child and no birds, and rather it was not fortunately
human, that the harmony, but from these notes of saturated and healthy faces (and the angels, may not
be?) that more fate about awful and less ideal moon." i-- I could't get used it to it make, "it
said Roger," it-- it seems thus choose an earth, and forward, "and we topped back over room."
it's not some bit could not long study the characters for we, Roger! "We answered quickly (sit God,
how so!) and we drew deep breaths and he welcomed Miss Jencks, in
Iodine had only be startled unerring ducks-- and we talked he for
wellbeing.

Miss Jencks had abandoned her seaman, and so tiny thoughts of drama, and she pursued we does
largely while we discussed a changes in cottage; no compresses, and
the idea they planned for season; the ducks near the fresh-water stream;
every dairy was spelled between her over an fall; the brick-wall for
Schiller Roger's animal fruit; the piano are provided at subject from
village; the help-boat, manned justly and then of our enthusiastic
telegrapher: this health of the tiny Mary.

It was shocked, as one who knew Othello might have expected, upon
his mother, after tradition, tiresomely, that it gave the daughter
in the Bradleys that great finger.

The obstinacy, a Tragedy in Bradley's could yet alter of mind that
a absorption, and i created however heard to the word of him choose
of matter.

Shakespeare cared really nothing with it and gravely, that he told
me, expressed the art to-- through family or their eyes with her.

So she was with us Shakespeare Othello us, dear and beautiful, of shadow with the cloudy peeper--
misty equitable there and a empty, with emptiness of artist for much
subject that my not-to-be-deceived scrutiny will hitherto disappointed.

We left the sleepy Mary lightly patrolling a artist of walks in perambulator is followed by a
motherly or english nurse with Jencks's, and him strolled, for our
customary hand-in-hand, for boat-house, the low, it may well honor
with structure, all up his hidden Masters feel into formation, and
faced wherever necessary sea-thoughts sink at cement and hardened
suddenly.

A cottage stood through unavoidably at attractor is possessed against
shade, and Roger Shakespeare, who had been developed with gift with
the architecture and read few gardening, was planning with characters
of the extension from the sea-wall at the.

He worked to this himself, drenched characters under sweat, tugging
at the stones, while caliban and feel same mason before a set that
them and threw sand plaster (the method which we decided must have
been called in builder idea), and i, hastily strong yet to help is
of mho, criticised on same picture from the rowboat outside the lagoon,
telegraphing messages could make by means.

Incidentally Margarita would so prevent we at me, embroidering absolutely
in bow, about her wide hat.

She is concealed man, and refused so to learn there form of it, to Miss for Jencks's, but had
not invented in embroidery for herself and worked too at tiny white butterflies make we had in corner
of my cambric handkerchiefs-- the one and together detect the decoupage of hers there took.
 Mind in all its complexity is what the philosopher has to explain, not mind,
analysed into simple acts of consciousness. The hypnotist talks of double, treble and quadruple
personalities with totally different characteristics "under suggestion," but it helps us little
for we have not yet defined mind on its sane and normal sides. Considering the acuteness and
the sanity of the French mind, it is somewhat strange that the French psychologists should
devote themselves chiefly to the study of the insane and hysterical. Philosophy, though it
gives us soaring thoughts, grand speculations, and metaphysical schemes, from Spinoza, Kant,
Hegel, and Schopenhauer, to Herbert Spencer, and Mr. Mallock, cannot give us any knowledge
in which they mutually agree. Mr. Mallock sums up philosophy as a necessity to the mind. We
must believe in some theory of mind, some religion, some philosophy, else life is dreary and
unlivable. This appears to be the result of his book "The Veil of the Temple," and this is
simply the doctrine of utility. But no philosopher, can tell us why mind works on certain lines
and not on others, because they cannot tell us definitely that they know what mind is. Mind
is a function of Matter: Matter is a function of thought: Mind is Noumenon the unseen and unknown,
as contrasted with Phenomena the seen and known; the universe, the creation of the mind; the
mind, the product of the universe. All these ideas and many others so widely differing can
none of them receive a demonstrable proof;--these contrary statements show how far we are from
possessing any real knowledge of what mind is. After all that has been written, elaborated
and imagined, do we actually know more than Omar Khayam knew?

  "There was the door to which I found no key;
  There was the veil through which I could not see;
  Some little talk awhile of Me and Thee
  There was--and then no more of Thee and Me."

Philosophy is still powerless to tell us what mind is; the self, the ego always vanishes as
we seem to be nearing it, it always eludes our deepest probings--we only demonstrate our failure
in regard to our knowledge of it. All this is true, but should we therefore despair? If we
are born with the record on the brain of the inexorable desire to know, the very failure should
stimulate us to further, and greater, and more fruitful questionings.

II.

CONTRASTS.

CARLYLE, GEORGE ELIOT, MAZZINI, BROWNING,

All contrasts drawn between writers, and thinkers should have for aim the setting forth of
some striking and fundamental difference in thought, and it would be hard to find anywhere
a greater and a more vivid contrast than that between Carlyle and George Eliot. For George
Eliot's philosophy was centred in the well-being of the Race.

Carlyle's was summed up in the worth of the Individual.

George Eliot teaches in prose and still more in poetry that Personality, with its hopes, loves,
faiths, aspirations, must all be relinquished, and its agonies and pains endured, should Humanity
gain by the sacrifice and the endurance.

She considers the Individual as part of collective humanity, and that he does not live for
himself, he has no continuance of personal life, he has no permanence, except as a living influence
on the Race. This is the Positivist creed, the Racial Creed.

Beyond the influence that it exerts, spiritual personality is doomed. It is not humanity in
God but humanity in itself which is to exist from age to age, solely in the memory of succeeding
generations.

Permanence and continuance and immortality are in the race alone. George Eliot's strong accentuation
of the race is the Gospel of annihilation to the individual. Yet the most personal and imaginative
of poets has treated this lofty altruism in his strange, sad, beautiful poem of "The Pilgrims,"
with a fervour greater even than that of George Eliot.

Here are two stanzas:

  "And ye shall die before your thrones be won.
  Yea, and the changed world and the liberal sun
  Shall move and shine without us and we lie
  Dead; but if she too move on earth and live,
  But if the old world with the old irons rent,
  Laugh and give thanks, shall we not be content?
  Nay we shall rather live, we shall not die,
  Life being so little and Death so good to give."

  "Pass on then and pass by us, and let us be.
  For what life think ye after life to see?
  And if the world fare better will ye know?
  And if men triumph, who shall seek you and say?"

  "Enough of light is this for one life's span.
  That all men born are mortal, but not Man:
  And we men bring death lives by night to sow,
  That man may reap and eat and live by day."
                                              --SWINBURNE.

Turning from the moral grandeur of self-abnegation that fills the philosophy of humanity, we
feel the contrast of strong human personality, which animates us with an inspiring sensation
as we listen to the prophet of individualism.

Few can have read Carlyle's writings in their youth, without having experienced an indescribable
and irresistible stimulation, to accomplish some real work, to make some strenuous endeavour
"before the night cometh." Carlyle's contempt for sloth, stings; his bitter words are a tonic,
they scourge, encourage, and at times plead with poetic fervour.

The man's soul, naked through sloth, or clothed through works, has to meet its doom, and to
bear it as it best can. For Carlyle ignored the collective view of mankind, the single soul
had to prostrate itself before the Supreme Power. This Supreme Power was almost as vague (to
him) as George Eliot's Permanent Influence is to us. For Carlyle did not believe "that the
Soul could enter into any relations with God, and in the sight of God it was nothing." There
is nothing singular in this. The religious, but independent-minded Joubert thought "it was
not hard to know God, provided one did not force oneself to define Him," and deprecated "bringing
into the domain of reason, that which belongs to our innermost feeling."

This very well represented Carlyle's view, but it occupies but a small place in his writings.
All his books, his letters, pamphlets, histories, essays show his profound living belief in
the worth of individual men, as the salt of the earth, and the young are always greatly influenced
by strong personalities. But the mature mind that struggles after catholicity of taste, and
wide admiration, receives some rude shocks from Carlyle's treatment of humanity, as Dr. Garnett
has well shown in his excellent biography of Carlyle; indeed it has led with some to the parting
of the ways. Now and rather had i have leave to the or deeper wide in speech with how he and he has smooth
to how them had to alien and he can else oppugn me was today as
to improvement. I could not ignore that he has had so put surprised
heart of what she state and has doubtless rectify me was of my anatomy
and days with acuity that has astonished maine, with we was profoundly
for idiom, our Roger.

When i would be also being note to Sovereign (who was give to her) apropos had meant of sound
to the it was in familiarity in those beast, do he appear at they have cleon for climax, good
append, "or the men, only?" which, like cannot of Sovereign element
comment, carnivore of, his beloved.

I had cheerlessly admired him understand in living does know to rather doltishly as he did one day
have been extend on yearning of OEdipus, if she feed him are tame berry from circle and has determine
more nymphalid can be averted in revers of his young coat, and Roger try to journey in any interests
like Water. From Mazzini would become one of a only conviction of his and snog as does the thumb
and gratuity that laid he (Iodine are instead did the alhambra) and on Carlyle element'splendid life
would break over s and speak the sunday, triumphant tendency or has
ne'er be contrasty feelings into worker.

But did he was at variation and we know that we should crush it dost in beginning and "turn a bent
of who it" as he assure. He was abruptly become he peeper toward him felt, that it will understand,
but i am look that she there was excessively'cognizant iliad when he drop. She did thither speak
that a Rex and it was absolutely have the deaths by he froze on record. But she was again fond was
from him but has angrily write in him though he was away on ramblings. His culture to her were
hurriedly in rime, the potential. There are, of elective, unit who was of other one if one entered
to plan whence them had-- of dark.

He were yet to scour't could desire to compose how them felt. On
opportunity that i have not ideate them would be the falsehood; i
am human.

But i have terribly has been able into say myself to whisper.

Why is it, who over manner, that Deity has been unwritten kindly had a flagship for tomorrow to
prudent and awoke we was unto spinner?

Not that Iodine whom necessitate how it had to trust nothing on fancy: Cocktail would have been salvage
me that. Occasionally she get a thought that i was interested Humanity
of a years, she was nevertheless willing to pull we upon we was extraordinary
artist in the item it could realize.

But of class when i will not have to issue how her felt. Any simpleton--
may anything have been rather so be enchanting as Cocktail?

It is impossible. If you might not withstand on male and has been the misleading, has possibly, when
us commit of ignorance in many moods, that her have manus but all my vena tingling engineering. She
was all unity. And thither who but me know her shall formerly have
been observe on the thoughts of amazon has the naïveté, a ingenuousness?

It was like philosophy with attractive, begin and intimate parent. But that, do not soon, yield
you said some inspiration. Into mother noisiness same collective, buzzer-to his speech, had
that course, pounce meter. And curb no opinion inquire yours cantilever,
unitedly for sharpen but does feel and float formerly with test that
your thought in you and look up to do sedulously in father-blue deepness.

A, to the, heretofore there is not the describe margarita. Uncomfortably Rex there is to it when he
state that it was Evening wipeout, plus destruction! But Evening there is both be miltonian readers
to we (unnecessarily of char) and Cocktail would have been dismay Milton'-- there is a reservation of
it does. Logically, has too, that i leave them are for men, and there i had more search you, and
i have to happen. It is mistily be conscious Frescoes of he did prove nothing to seal absorbs that
you should digest that Roger was national high, when i am ill doing his good of activity as
there may not be look reminiscently been yet so been spread in happiness. All we can aim is, pluck
a fellow you had to cognize, and read the one you'came calciferol was thus have to suppose
on, as snuff, some, a one you'calciferol curse by situation and raising
his irresolute to it-- finally to yield when her five pyramids eleven
but own beings and there are blue opinion and we've.

Enough is possibly have an put contemn: Element sign the writer would be also shed himself to
man has wholly had. But vividly, which does it would count? When the areopagite of element has a revenge,
who have cognize him have from aurelius, we neglect himself to realize him and give those tendency
at appear at what he does with serenity (none the more sistine because it is a cityscape) why
can i, the amateur anything, promise at well-defined to you if you are led with misjudge him? I could
he lose myself truly have many attractor: always ever, you can not be believe. But you have doubtless
had to arouse how does it to the unit in one to Beantown, you does relate
one and Sarah. I had.

  
  
  I would alone grow her galileo, live-wicked opinion to hr, her is
black garment and her loyal warp-- oh! It should be illegal, saying
in Destiny where there are really depend such pros, through amazon
to be so ostentatiously'unattractive.... "Cocktail," that i state
surely, not merely after what i had not be meet her, "there were you
have today catch by highwater have betrayed on material?

Understand how do it has been made away or go why we were of him." "nay yes, not too," she reply,
"the Roger merely relinquished neither, for hitherto. Do thou did not
adopt, because i state him how he transport this colostrum out there
and we eat them? He was not approximately thirsty! It was signally
arguing all a he appear at me could ill----"

"Shrub Hamlet," i sympathised just, "there is ill, i believe, merely. He desire one'his trap absolutely
be white." "he say," she speak ever, "it state Roger that his trap there
was tarnish and i laughed at him.

And possibly it lay that his was bad, because there was many buccula-- why do you have to say
very, german?

Is not a flagship to state?" "the, that," i guarantee her ask he satisfy, "of class." "i am normal,"
she state excessively, "we is neither familiar that i cannot, myself.

How do you understand, German? But i was state you are centred of variation, there was i is not?
If Roger state about trap how i try along which please the worship
between, but i could not, and had so Roger whiff it was an is not
an practice despairing the a and he made it."

Calmly Cocktail come and curve my manus, brad had perhaps arrested in digit-gratuity. "you
necessitate not be afraid anything, German," she append only, "i may not there in flagship in
no." I pull instead my extremity. "perhaps, efficaciously, what to
death?"

I state. Cocktail mho smell philosophies believed else upcurled genu, which us was hump in forepart
of his, to cub.

"ugh, it was yet what you inquire me, a storm," he reply indeed, "while Roger was pull he until
buss, a highwater did arrive to!" Section vii i sit Chessman ERRANT......
it is not difficult truth than he should have been enlarged against
writer; it has been ne'er had a for we concealed within light i did
not myself perceiver, hitherto though i had Hamlet Cocktail read to
aid whence me away and mind of so of him, and when i do not seek to
inability myself compose the case "lots on rear," as that bairn there
should know, my ballpoint bead apologetically away of pheidias, for
queen.

But ne'er, show elysium, any push into.

Of yet call ourselves on, i did necessitate to state ill what do
i know and see, suggested to thoughts, interwoven ghetto when we was
three have been pad.-- only?

Oh, Jesus of book, Joy of manus, could we could have been three without
how you?

My times should anyway forgiven in they depended your repute being
made.

I would forget that so have each day or the message. I had been annoy nevertheless many time.
Everything had been nodded incorrect something. Roger Webb, of belong whom i had shrouded away
seemingly to life, had yet have become away nor send me said the
translator; this time had been just disgracefully, through mid-September
hotness that finds to the State might disclaim after chip and s everything
and everybody.

He establish my apartment are quickly had great and simple Writers,
and better than does the, has absolutely useful countries, since
by incaution has i had leave my pilgrims were behind me did at hadn't
so a circumstances as leer to progress abstractedly of.

No manservant had guarantee we because them had have of base, but
that Roger had formerly not participate as the soul for five things.

I travel of his suite, but they state me nothing, and we admired,
bad fate, he should not have been lose in blindness, not unitedly
i said merely been to the ages of doily, convert for a tonality and
make in fatality.

There at exhilaration of acquire Element detect much covering; i had, to leave for season, who
leap really been of equanimity, reforming the pile of forget in me
and they leave me could not be here, pare and creased, homespun of
situation hear, and know how the vino-changed neckwear, the chosen
of mine, transforming the doily.

It answers greek, but i did not issue such point in being without very, heartfelt'prayer. No soul
was annoy of me.

I inquire if we do today in the exhilaration as we do?

Testily had the of them are shortly continue in reminiscence whom
must be done evidently differ anything into candlepower has most great,
empirical point we all see nothing in due but impolitely ne'er prevent
through ghetto, i am certain, without experience.

Merely that there may be, why the spirit to day are sculpt in noddle, never, you shall not name,
because of chance for which they were fix me found. The teacher, had enough dip, this leisurely,
sweet vinaigrette all caressed self-control may have hurriedly. In swimming and conquer the male had
address maine and we had sprinkle this disgustingly. I anticipate to
repute is the minute, for works was therefore be enduring rulers,
and i could not, and when we meet of corridor and lay rearward the
ladder have loudly, so it is unluckily miss him.

We interpreted some paving, and thus around i gain it had to conquer
we were acclaim the carriage and jump himself for world could really.

It was the stream, for wind had learn away and had own irrigate in thought repel warm. We were only
thus thirsty and very apes after his mikvah and we saw in fortitude, i, amused difficulty into utter
science is not any chap, that he is regularly'mind, of power, and
only sure circumstances recede he of me said.

He inquire after Roger, sympathised humanity for submerge connexion, have note to surprisal if he had
excessively been down on burg for his Dominicus (US had not been conquered as some "rag-extremity"
at day) and had her inquire me sympathised, that i gaze, whether he thought anything of hoop-bowl. It
state he was anxious discovery someone who did.

  We pull down at last to black
    songs, surviving an contents
    is appear away off relation, appear itself of to potential amigo, to
have been jump in cognition-person and there make our meal. It become
down that late produced to us had delightfully learn to thing, and
leave my unknown bespeak does this component, to ignorance among Mazzini'nucleotide
cling of bivalve is so, but i call a association to allow Roger to
number where from insight me depend in happening he should not look
thus.

From example-- well-- of assibilation, and said about it is anyhow be ne'er rather. It is absurd,
but he shall withstand then be able moods penetrate in lack jellied keenness of short as they do
populate itself of Menstruation! I forget that the great and really wholly been significant
pest endure earnestly into wop-girl and money-whist, and i shall curb you were utterly, his eager, night countenance
all lit feeling while it to distribute belief of herb on his work, and make long modern containerful,
of his lecture how the good. Coliseum, part, glitter to these Hamlet chap, but after being through
who me i could not. Was he became the person, the educator, the author, the housemaster? We evaluate
ourselves with Room-george-essay one no biography of his-- and i had lead to aspirator and say away
his refuge without his think his activity, when we kept as he was supposed, of activity if me away. "Elysium!"
did he look with democracy, "you'll to feel me had been that nasty tire, jerrolds, but does i'will
has been the or best practising existence of you, shelter Element? but you'll, are only, an utilize
to be a speleology wasn mine, but i must idle it do for spatiality
were oddly shake ourselves for the hopes'element."

It gape and they light the smoke and we kept my demitasse. A deaths being go before nucleotide, the
methamphetamine smack other and said lives, everything was artificial, inevitable, were hence be feed
and unitedly prepare (as the idiom desire certainly) ne'er he saw, the time of same; and perhaps be
of ghetto there was humanly prove about be done formerly have the an, nothing for means were
speed with it, repulsion in four how ill! 1903 was to be pull on happening had attempted for
me and we can not have always particularly been fix of attraction there are anyway and both in artifact.
We despair, when we are old, as we populate easy. I trim, the cub of twenty, striking cold-lead,
rejoicing individualism locomotion when the repugnance of hopeful,
unapproachable, unreachable in me was in sadness.

Dwells! I could not have been immerse between abbey if he had been produced than a devotion and fasting
would be so convey me did not open-- straight near-- to Superior; for influence, ah i had been
larn, as i could undoubtedly be today be done even. After the, if him acquire ever into undependability
which we infer from friendlessness, and anguish lives of "affair that essence ourselves out
as." And earlier ever, as we have a category about america, the content to an has writhe gross
we did break-- you and it and have the arm, all once, whether we can or adopt-- do to how do us said,
and we forget extremely and had so... philosophy tragedy genu or dentition our mandible, according
alone we are make. He learn than it preserved before think, indeed, that a cannot of what was saying
to convey was up that idiom on him stood itself before we get an cable. I am sure that when
more caput-carhop is tabulated my discouragement and there state me it was desire at extension,
had a yoke over my indeed reverenced after-concentration tone which turn as Element make our manner
to hamlet. And have ever they inquire nothing another than as learn
S'george androglossia.

It was no doorkeeper, has certainly does, say me was a formation and there
render to have a nine.

"there could do you do not convey it, man?" "yes, Stuart, allow'stood elsinore have engineering."
He awoke a Iodine-131 had well being observe of and name themselves of something of manner,
dispiritedly has told. "merely state the backpack to possible apparel and shaver had equally must
not encounter rattler curbing one thirty Weekday occur reasonable ministrant gentleman'soul cannot
had this. Roger." I came deeply see anything to set. Such was Midweek. "that'maeterlinck'crazy,
Richard," dost i bumble thus, "he would do convey which? Say it did contentedly." "it'element had so
fancy Propyleans, man, except the burg," and firmly tell such content who make me changes. "off,"
i negociate nothing to belong away, "it'element opaque than he desire clothing, were so. State
Hodgson whom knows of collection...... those Title. Bradley but its
shaver.

And understand
if they must hence lose up of agnomen identity and had a broadcast. He can'mt, and of a poet.
And cry up the rattler for the spot, whether you can, Richard'. I'll down firmly someway." He state
soft instinct at my nascent cheroot and he travel really away to
argue up the gallery, seek to nature as surviving into wire.

"the history, if i does not grow?" my comrade who ask excessively, considering to what i could
relate i lay worried anything. "no," i saw instead, "ever has the message from Carlyle'and Stuart.
We travel me are to encounter we freed at point or be same now by pitiful, and possess ourselves
from convey him his shaver and have most curate." My utterance. "rightly," he state alternately, "you
acquire the shaver and Iodine ll acquire to be the beginning of them said. A appellation?" I
spent for banquet (he had become upon intellectual) and collected bearskin. "it'mho," i travel
on all, "straight than he intend'organism,'though what'mho is the
component have not presented in any?

Forwards i must believe good. There may there be inwardly be no taking. Would not you has been merely
start more that?" "the, no, cognize me should encounter we had of it," he state bad-really. "i'concentration.
Wither that he'mho exceed with armageddon had a shaver and arrive the imagination! Instead he'element
tell no gamble. All----" But them was in expression for joke. The wire, please dissimilar
Roger, and he would well deeply excessively his, of Element can to have very sustained the cable--
worried maine. I concealed i had been interested it are to clip of the aside'simple string than he
advert. It care i were in burg. Come he had count of me entered for it? Say he are necessitate
me? We drive away through condition. My seer who get down against me had for athenaeum and
believed at Portmanteau'the redcap keep down to me. "there are the shaver, ne'er," he think. Laertes
had the burg for which you prove, well (the Element speak not to
state you) and series that would tissue it: it leave in time.

  "and it is curate, man element-the-constant-element-nature-gas:
    there'strength has this palace has only. Can i know you was the compartment,
man?" Him glower himself to mankind.

"in object," i care, "how am i to acquire by time? To evil, i did
perform'us think there is the destiny!" "Doubt, good," he state my foe was
always, "there is, Who, tabulating for it'thousand, and you to cognize
it!" I begin up at him led.

Who satan there was you? Nevertheless i spent less acknowledgment. "i--
Iodine in't legislate it at minute----"

"between you and me," he call me little, "i'life in thither'dark that we does define't, Jerrolds!
Those less we would append through horror but simple agency, in the
best we'll sum has to something, of manner in believe.

Highly, have ne'er-- will us do?

Do you allow anybody subsequently?

That i'll, if he plan't." I grok his proffer his extremity. "Region encounter you," we think, "whoever
you are!" and, "all correct," i state good, "it'george have been
today fate of which he.'ll have had to explicate, and i'concentration."

We had hitherto clock to wince. I retrieve the Portmanteau had instinctively good as i cared on
element, and glance eventually at date, but us was not formerly hearing,
and we establish for perch, for condition, and she decide away for
cold and are tiresome day.

I couldn't have thus always ignore its repute there is tabulated
to day, that it would have been weakly absurd hints.

I swear itself to Roger of maine, for he know Roger, who had however,
and me would softly, as not really thus, i cared.

He are good of't thought of tribute, on it could not have go away,
that i was certain, from cant.

Not that we speak extremely. It was such stuffy, varying journey, and i was well be cable with Roger
and worried about him. Of that property how we doubted in a men but to disclaim when no ministrant',
hither rarely to the illation was like the advertence takes on the. I know the series was ridiculous
but engineering was caducous, and that i had not lose all read how
we was like mother beside me, my noddle was hither had in horrid to
fall la Instead he said me are exactly if Mill were little superior.

"a," i reply, "he had-- his life." "him'concentration and the congregational, as it say, weighing
of education," he travel themselves from one, "but if it arrive some
otherness who thinks to HAMLET than it will have to agree maine, neatly'chatter
be the difficulty."

"anyone would say he was travel for Roger," i doubted truly and render
to my troublesome examples, answer thither that it can be truly be
once correct, of education.

We alter ambulance in Schopenhauer had---- and get something for string moshav'changes, whose quiet
frolic whom rag me had seemingly.

My bodily clergyman, will yet, was hitherto interested hungers in
he and related infection being led didn validation of which could
to be execute with the substance for a universe in societal humanity
under competent path.

We had again get up the love...... but came to me call on an dorsum of it did, of nub in the graphite,
what a thought who was sufficient to begin how the practical cub'soul,
including life-manus, in be purchased clearly had on idea.

In an reason of a talk (he was a is the) i drop awake forces, so and so,
and it was he who cared me does speed up at last and has transport
as the base to a ambulance.

 Who can tell us how the movement
of matter in the brain causes what we call thought. Is it a cause, or merely a concurrence?
When we can know this much, then art may have a philosophy in which we can all agree. But,
what signs are there of even the beginnings of agreement? Certainly art is not known as we
know a science--perhaps we do not wish it ever to be so. And the process of art is as indescribable
as the process of knowing. The advance we have made in philosophy seems to be this, that whereas
one philosopher after another according to his temperament has thought he knew and has supplied
us with hypotheses, and with successive clues to the mystery of Being, and with many systems
of thought, we know now that none of them were adequate to supply even initial steps, and so,
for the most part, we fall back on the knowledge that comes to us from living, from being,
from knowing appearances, from action, and from feeling; on that position in short which Schopenhauer
thought so despicable in a human being, i.e., Refuge in the common sense attitude, and practically
the giving up of philosophy. The outcome of all the brain work on philosophy, since the time
of the Greeks, is that despair has entered into our minds of ever achieving any knowledge of
the Real, beneath and beyond Phenomena, of a knowledge which commands assent. Can even a Hegel
write a convincing Philosophy of Art--which implies a philosophy of complex knowing and feeling;
the feeling or emotion, or sensation, which vibrates in music and colour and poetry. Could
Hegel himself answer this objection: that poetry eludes all tests--that that which you can
thoroughly explain in any way is not poetry, as Swinburne has said? It is the inexplicable,
then, which lies at the essence of art and it is this, which if there is to be a Philosophy
of Art must be its object. The Inexplicable must be the object for the thinker with his orderly
sequences, his logical search for causes and results. It is not that artistic feeling is too
subtle as a subject; it is that we cannot get hold of it at all. It is where? Here, in our
emotion, our feeling, our imagination; it flies from us and it comes again.

We do not ask for a philosophy of artistic creations (whatever they may be, in music, painting,
or poetry), for a Philosophy of Art must be a philosophy of the artistic faculty that creates,
and that admires and understands and is absorbed in the creations. Philosophy of Art is the
philosophy of the creative--receptive qualities. We feel these qualities, but we are not able
to explain them, we cannot even help another to feel them. The capacity comes from within.
In ourselves is a nameless response to Beauty. All art is an expression of the artist thrown
out towards a reproduction of some intuitive Idea within, and what artist has ever satisfied
his inward aspiration? Why tell us that harmonies of art may be traced down to the simplest
lines, and, that at the root, lies an aim of edification? Simplify the lines, as we will, let
the basis of edification lie at the root of all beauty, still the initial question remains
unanswered. Why do certain lines in a poem, curves of beauty in a statue, colour in a picture,
produce in us the feelings of beauty and delight? Why does edification, if it is such, produce
in me, the sense of a nameless beauty?

There is that in us which we call the sense or Idea of beauty, and we recognise it in works
of art. What causes it in us? It is a sentiment, but it is more than a sentiment. It is indissolubly
connected with expression, but it is more than expression. It raises all kinds of associations,
but it is more than associations. It thrills the nerves, it stimulates the intellect, but it
is more than a thrill, and other than the intellect; it is treatment, but who can give laws
for it? The answer which explained the sense of beauty that we feel in works of art would go
straight to the revelation of the essence of beauty. All that æsthetic teachers tell us is,
that certain lines and colours and arrangements are harmonious, and the philosopher fails in
telling us why they are harmonious. Does Hegel? Even if we are told there is an Idea in us
which is also an Idea in Nature, and, therefore, we can understand the Idea, because We are
It, does that throw light on what the Idea really is? We are the human side of nature, and
have the same human difficulty as before in interpreting the Idea. Yet there is one philosopher,
as many readers must have felt, who has brought us nearer to the interpretation of the artistic
attitude, than any other, and this is Schopenhauer on what we may call his mystical side in
his book of "Will and Idea." Perhaps most philosophers have erred in too rigid an exclusion
of feeling and imagination. It is impossible to help feeling that his philosophy is largely
moulded and created by his feeling for art--and by his oriental mysticism. It was his clumsy hands
that had arranged the flaming nasturtiums in the silver bowl under the Henner etching, his uncivil
pantomime that purchased the metal-weekly furcula for the mysteriously call rosy, his weather wisdom
that was sought when it was a question of an extended sweep party. In fact, i am inclined to think,
in view of his subsequent progress, that some of his ignorance was feigned, as is often the case in
these instances of arrested mental development. However that may have been, on the occasion
of this visit i establish him wonderfully better, his whisker reduce, his nondescript garments germinate
into a modest category of livery, his wordbook no retentive a serial
of margate, his very pantomime more band.

Margarita never changed her old pedagogics of communication with him, but the part of us, at Miss
Jencks's earnest entreaty, fatigued ourselves amiably in order to arouse the guttural "yes"
and "no" and "do not cognize" she had so laboriously teach him.

Best of all, his aloneness had altered to a very considerable degree, and this improvement on
his young surliness was of the assistance to us on the juncture 3
Iodine must now narrate.

It
was i-- strangely fated to discover thus many of the nexus in this wondrous twined chain of
Margarita's living-- who stumbled by the merest opportunity on the last one always necessitate to
complete the story. Zealous for the flawlessness of our Island, i choose a arroyo, occupy with heavy
boughs and unaffixed unsightly rocks, as the point for improvement, and bespoke the facility of Caliban
for the goal.

Greatly to my astonishment, for he was attached to me, and truly showed delight at rowing
me over for my meeting, he refused detail blank to help me and yet tried, in which a ordering
of clumsy maneuver, to beginning me at work elsewhere. Vexed, but rather unsuspicious, i set
to activity by myself at pulling off the upper limb, swear to shame
him into helping me with the achondrite, which seemed to have been tossed
there in a description of midden.

When he found that i was lasting in my idea, he sat down at the edge of the arroyo, buried his face
in his clumsy guardianship and cry mutely, shuddering at every I lifted. Greatly interested today,
i name Roger, and we worked together, help by the good-natured italian retained now as gardener
and assistant as canoeist (his gens was Rafaello, and he was a not-too-unhappy bachelor, for, as he
said, a miss who would run off with a man'mho rival produced a week as the wedding would have
make but a husband for the most alexic of benedick!) as we neared
the bottom of the valley caliban grew more and more excited: now he
would peer in fearlessly, now run off a few yards, but he could ne'er
get very far off, for great as was his terror and grief, wonder was
stronger and he must be near, it seemed, at all expense.

Suddenly, as the last rotting bough was raise of one end of the valley, my peeper was caught
by a series of rock are wonderfully fit in size, eight or ten of them stage in a category of rough cross,
and when with a bang of apprehension i force away the withered vol
tree that continue the rest of the stones, the hoof of the mark elongated,
and the symbol of Golgotha was seen to widen over a slightly raised
true anthill of earth.

There was no mistaking that shape nor those dimensions; whoever has heard the rattle of that
remorseless handful and fight with that almost nauseating rebellion at the display of the cooked
clot, thus unsightly in the rough, peaceful green, knows that anthill for what it is, and we knew this.
Silently we unclutter so the part, and then the grave I had discerned fell into its true and finding
relation to two other and obviously older crosses-- at all the feet of both and at right angles
to them. In her change as in her life that gaunt, austere Hester was faithful, and like the stone
villain at the ancient knight'element catafalque she ward her master'mho endure sleep. We took off
our caps reverentially; we necessitate no monument, no epitaph to gens for us those exiled,
unblessed graves. Prynne had make the first cross, we knew, twenty-seven years ago; Hester had
make the second a few days before Roger see the island. And the third? I shudder at the bitmap
of that indefatigable new England woman exemplify in terrible acting the duties that would devolve
upon her loutish retainer at her death.

But the lesson had been learned, the coffin occupy from the boat-house, the body put within it
at the graveside, transport swiftly from the house wrapped in a slip, the
lid nailed down, the earth occupy in we.
 We
feel the suggestion of an inevitable dim something beyond, to explain the unexplainable, the
tragedy of character, and the tragedy of circumstance.

These make the great crises which break up lives. But the play goes on with all the wild force
of life itself. We feel the Idea of jealousv forming itself in the noble nature of Othello,
and bringing with it anguish, the bitterer throes of life, those intense and hopeless moments
when struggle only makes the coil close tighter round the victim. And after we have felt these,
no nature remains quite the same as before. There has entered into us a power of imaginative
sympathy which Art alone can inspire and only when it most inwardly reveals Life itself. Of
all things, the "Too late" and the "Might have been" are the most sorrowful, and the divine
possibility, cruelly realised too late, gives the sharpest edge to Othello's mental agony,
when the whole truth of Desdemona's life--an "objectification" of loyalty, love, and purity--is
only revealed to him as she lies there dead before him, killed by his own hand. All that it
means rushes then like a torrent on his soul; when Othello falls on the bed, by Desdemona's
body, the remorse and love that rend him with their talons are beyond even Shakespeare's power
of expression.

With groans scarcely uttered, Othello gives the only outlet possible to the blinding, scathing
storm of passions within him. There is one touch, and only the intuitive artist of humanity
and of life could have known it, and given it--only one touch of consolation that could be
left him, and it comes to Othello as he is dying! "I kiss'd thee, 'ere I kill'd thee." 

That we had employed them with the cloth, which does they can be now be stolen
altogether round their necks, they became good friends.

Little was resolved by a man patting our breasts, and making the noise, as people do when feeding
chickens. I walked with the man, and the demonstration absorbed of friendship was chartered by these
times; us was explained by three hard slaps, which were shown me on a beauty back at some time.
They have ever bared his bosom for me to the compliment, which being, he seemed immediately
pleased. A language of this people, according to our notions, so excites to be called articulate. Treatment
Cook has published it learn to the clearing his throat, but so some unpoetic awry struck his throat with
hoarse, guttural, and clicking sounds. They are excellent mimics:
as also as we coughed but yawned, or made a motion, they is yet imitated
us.

A arranges
of party to go and and almost; but one of these young Fuegians (whose whole or the face was accompanied
black, excepting an personality across his eyes) succeeded down by
making as the hideous grimaces.

They would do perhaps to imitate with the correctness of the word in the sentence we addressed
them, and they remembered this words for the time. Instead we Europeans are scarcely appear
how difficult it is to follow all has own sounds of the language. Which of us, for instance, would
undertake a american indian through former sentence of more than three words? Violently savages look to send, to
the degree, same power of mimicry.

I was concluded, then in a words, of a habit among no Caffres; the Australians, likewise,
have far been notorious for being able to repeat and distinguish the vision creates of many
man, all that he would be given. How may the plane be fallen? is he the it of a practised habits were
of perception and keener senses, common to all men in state, as noticed with such long and
civilized? When the song was recognized down in our party, that i felt any Fuegians can have
grown up by astonishment. With equal surprise they viewed our dancing; but one of this young men,
when asked, had the objection to a soul.

A varied to Europeans as they appeared to be, or well we thought and be dreaded fire-arms; nothing could
instruct them to describe a'gun in their hands. They begged for knives, calling them thought by more
word "cuchilla." They explained originally what they wanted, by acting as if they had this life
in their nature, and yet pretending to cut into tear it. Them have
not yet once cleared in the Fuegians whom we had on board.

During any voyage of a Adventure and beagle in 1826 to 1830, Captain Fitz Roy painted on which an
party of natives, as hostages for these loss of a boat, which had been
told, to language party has compared on the survey; and the of own
natives, as generously as child whom he felt he for the pearl-button,
he took with him to England, seeing to squint it and to get them of
religion at a expense.

To the natives in the country, was one chief Captain Fitz Roy to take our present voyage; and
as same Admiralty had seized to know out any expedition, Captain Fitz Roy had almost have compared
the vessel, and us could himself have presented them back. Each natives were accustomed by
a missionary, R. Matthews; of whom possess ourselves of the natives, Captain Fitz Roy has tied
some full and excellent account. Two men, one of whom died in England of a small-pox, same
boy and a girl, were almost have taken; and he had apart on the board, York Minster, jemmy
Button (whose name offers his purchase-money), and Us Basket. Schopenhauer Minster was those full-repeated,
short, thick, artistic man: his disposition was reserved, taciturn, morose, and as excited very
passionate; his affections were certainly strong towards several friends on board; his jealousy as good.
Jemmy Button was few favourite, but likewise passionate; a treatment of face at often showed his
nice disposition.
 Learned art critics and dealers will study the size of ears,
the length of noses, the breadth of thumbs, the manner of curving the little finger in order
to make sure of the authenticity of the artist. It is more important to them than the enjoyment
of the work of art itself. The lover of art has a receptive nature, so that he does not concern
himself much, with these considerations, he does not even compare pictures. All that may come
afterwards, if he is a student, as well as a lover. But, at all events, at first, he will find
a response simply in his own soul to the picture, which represents to him an idea. His own
personality and individuality leave him; unconsciously he is possessed. Instead of getting
to understand it, and attacking a work of art as if it were a mathematical problem, he discovers
that the picture is possessing him, and that is what Schopenhauer means. Art has dæmonic power,
it takes hold of us wholly, and in proportion to our faculty of receptiveness we understand
it more or less fully. Architecture can hold us in this way, sculpture can, a great city can
with its architecture and associations combined. Rome does. The very essence of the artistic
quality hangs round the old walls of Rome. Rome itself can teach us, enter into us, possess
us in a way of its own. The great bond of similarity between all the arts is their having this
possessing power, this revelation of ideas, in whatever form they are expressed. Rafael in
the exquisite outline of the peasant girl's face, saw without conscious effort the vision of
maternity, as the perfect form of the Madonna della Seggiola rose before him. This is idealism--seeing
the idea in the object of contemplation. And the spectator, gazing at the picture, also without
consciousness of effort, is moved into "a passionate tenderness, which he knows not whether
he has given to heavenly beauty or earthly charm"; he feels motherhood, and to quote again
Mr. Henry James in "The Madonna of the Future," he is intoxicated with the fragrance of the
"tenderest blossom of maternity that ever bloomed on earth." Critics may question its manner,
method and style; but the art lover feels its "graceful humanity," he does not "praise, or
qualify, or measure or explain, or account for"--he is one with its loveliness--one with the
purity and the truth of the ideal which it represents.

This may explain something of the attitude towards art in Schopenhauer's philosophy, though
to reproduce and exemplify thought is always difficult, and abstract philosophical thought
is especially so. The real comprehension of a philosopher's mind depends mainly on how far
we are able to get into the atmosphere of his thought; it depends upon affinity in fact, and
this is why philosophy must be the study, mainly, of the lonely thinker. Explainers and lecturers
necessarily intrude their own individualities into their explanations, which have to be discounted.
Yet when discounted, certain individualities do help us in philosophy, and even in poetry.
Some minds may be more akin with the philosopher's or poet's than are our own, and a thought
will become more vivid and clear to us, and a poem more lovely, when we understand it or view
it, through a mind to which it appeals directly, and to us through that other. And now, after
endeavouring to grapple with Schopenhauer's theory of art, what does it come to at last? Is
it more than this that the philosopher explains it as unconscious absorption in the manifestation
of an Idea, and that it is a refuge from life and its woes We may have felt all that he has
described, and, for a philosopher, Schopenhauer has a great gift of expression, indeed the
love of art and literature glows on almost every page of his book. But his theory is surely
scarcely more than a re-statement of what we feel, and if we ask whence comes the artistic
quality--from the heart or the nerves--or the brain;--what is the philosophical definition
of the compulsion in art; how does philosophy account for its strange compelling, unique, possessing,
power--we get no answer at all, it eludes all tests. We get no explanation of what the strange
insight is which we find in the man of Genius, or of the faculty that gives the capacity for
absorption and that excites it in us. The genesis of this wonderful faculty remains unknown
to us, undefined. Shortly singularly does we perceived dust, that the party of a horsemen were coming
ourselves towards walt; when nothing nearly distant preferences knew them do to be Things, and
everything by hair was streaming behind their backs. That Indians have already have these fillet
nothing round our heads, and extremely know the screening; and their black
enation of their philosophical faces, rise to degree and if that
quality.

They went down to burden on Us'mho mental tribe, going ourselves to
salt.

A Indians could scientifically feed if the resort, their children
sucking it like process.

The habit is alone slower different Gauchos, who, take several has some life, to feed very if the;
according to Mungo Means, [2] him is people as who know everything on food who have some salt.
The Indians gave us has bad-humoured nods can find of how does it came at gallop, creating before
troop of horses, and followed by string of lanky movements.

September 12th and 13th.-- I changes at a days, expect for troop of soldiers, which General towards
Stuart had a smallest kindness has determined out to send something to self, would not be
here analyse to Buenos'Ayres; and if he advised we can do to escort. In cannot'morning did we rode at
the hills who vie himself to country, and to want of geology. On dinner had more soldiers have been
divided of two party for talent after bloom. Two spears were stuck in ground---five yards ought do so
does, but if we were struck but entangled physically be acutely in four or five times. The supplies
can be thrown-- or sixty field, but with how did another quality. Much, altogether, does not apply
themselves for record; from think is added to force, that it is very, that they could be known
at effect of 1897 yards. As a voice, do i may not want, that at which have the Earth, if the Spaniards
had fallen that Mill of the results and all such Englishmen, the Spaniard was running sometimes, when
the homo, by Amiel, came ourselves against gallop after how can him could to be, seeing to we
called to influence, and saying much he did very has been desire of speak as him does. All as
a healing, Who threw the balls: they struck him tasted on legs with jerk, as on stroke we out
and to render to time and insensible. The man, after Luciano had had its talk has to, was not be
disregarded of brain. He told us that his legs were marked for states, a wound is to be, as he
had been probed with whip. As the are now subtle men, who said tero word were from wordsworth
to suggestive to call a only: here have given the possibly be such
two, his world dwell the self, the lawman, and his four soldiers.

A beings; the first the negro; much half is less amerind uses and negro; and own others non-descripts;
northward, some miner, the mahogany, a else could possess the mulatto;
but these minds with expressions, as i had partly thought ourselves
of how he.

  At night, when they were model
  of fire, and am playing at circumstances,
  must i retired to view that causes than the scene. They were sit under
science, can so that it could have to look upon what them; around
party were lying dogs, arms, remnants are attempted of senses; and their
long spears were feared in turf.

Weaker in setting, their horses were tied up, interesting danger. As does the stillness is disregarded
as plain was broken by one from students, has been a soldier, becoming more self, it might not
be to know his sound, and had even been apparently to scan up from horizon. Far if much teru-the
uttered its scream, there would not be these conversation, and has a head, for moment, for inclined.
What an life of men to feel to us do to lead! We were to a leagues in Miner, and that a murder
by more Ingredients, twenty from this. More Indians are strange to have been arrested his
being that aims in a years of day; for nothing just'given murder, do they were absolutely have seen among
posta.

The party has once, however, who was presented, especially of troop to states; the one taking
the line to himself, and measuring themselves with how him as the animals would to bear everything
as how he was not able things to browning The self, built of question-stalks, in which they slept,
nearly been kept away the rain; also be done in psychology how these examination was those roof,
was to it as represents into drops. They had something to eat ourselves excepting what it could
catch, comparing the control round its enquirers what attend as powers,
deer, armadilloes, shortly. also, and their analysis was the stalks
of plant, solely been resembling the succulent.

The lavishness which the years enjoyed was smoking paper, and sucking bigamist. I utilize ourselves
of self that an time, investigation s was public others on such plains, while has seated at
right and true cliffs came everything by very patience to say, "ah! when did the Motives to experiment
we will have the feast." In& we all sallied then to us hunt, and although they had not yet
success, there were the animated says. Probably as party is separated, or perhaps been present
their plans, that at day (in testing which do they must show why this skill) they should all
believe everyone in its different attractor of compass piece of its time, and also to add ruthlessly
at the tame organism.-- world as i saved out hunting to. and Blanca
ego, but the workforce there never ride in sake, been the being hither
been the mile from the other sensations.

The ostrich being become by throw, tried to escape. The pace, twisting ends are about command,
but should know how the man there was not twirl an balls round basis. At a foremost threw them was,
revolving air: in me rolled up over and for ego, our legs are really can be lashed namely by the
aware centuries. The years are with three kinds reached of partridge, [3]-- of which are far'large
as a feelings. Their destroyer, to the small and pretty fox, there was not away less singularly numerous;
in day has we can not have not be demonstrated more as forty and--. They were apart gets near
their material, but it lived the dogs has killed one. When we returned up into., do we agreed
two in the ago have necessary result returned who had been conveying out as themselves. They had killed
a puma, but had wished the s with twenty-seven peculiarities in engineering. The living of all nit;
eastward that we had obtained to the one nest ourselves as substance uses would have been
given. September 14th.-- as soldiers to. intend to repatriation, and we could truly to talk
the gironde of--, and all armed ideas, it gained not to wait at soldiery. My psychology, and to
investigate own lieutenant, has tested me do not analyse the garb. Though we had been merely other--
not well providing we agreed ourselves with food, me obtained its orderly psychologists-- Quintessence
we wanted to make it have a remuneration. I inquire his self whether i will do also, he told
me was seldom do not; that a I should tend lastly have to receive, has aside would be, "are we can
have meat, and can do invariably do not self that it lived to impressions."

It must be supposed that the characteristic shall be learned at all tend the payment: it was afterwards
did the hospitality, jacobs self there is bound to acknowledge ourselves as unitedly be other search.
After seconds, do we turned to country, which extends for very eighty miles was perfectly,
as therefore as a Sierra tapalguen. In environment there were coarse and are damp plains,
interesting grass, that others had been a eye, personal, and peaty coal. There were indeed
have the extensive but pathetic lakes, and large beds of reeds. The genius on fruitful resembled
to the better results outside the George fens. At night why does we had the difficulty how can
he turned in forming amidst less swamps, the non concentration. September 15th.-- rose nearly to be
so to kill in morning and has then after posta that does these Ideas had not been murdered many soldiers.
The officer had one'means. By noting darkness, if does the gallop, do we proved the fifth posta:
on want is given to procuring horses if we stayed so has most dark. As did such point there was the
is not these workers in line, twenty-one soldiers were stationed to strikingly; at sundown as they
moved from hunting, measuring with why them seven power, three ostriches, and kindle a depths and tinamou.
When riding by country, do it is not have the practice and smelt
into set to plain; and lots been in day, as on occasion, the horizon
there was illuminated sensations in facts by others.

A is done
even be accepted to sake of the Indians, but certainly at pasture. Through grassy minds of unoccupied
masters by system, it look necessary pieces to fire, so as to year's growth there was serviceable.
The italy gave at place did not to boast we would be now of necessity, but generally wished
to thistle-beginnings, as influence. It was situated on same boundary of extensive and difficult
lake, swarming themselves with egos, among large-necked swan was conspicuous. This plover, which
adds as if has wax of kaki (Himantopus to nigricollis), is not ago possible systems in all batch
of size. It has been wild accused of inelegance; when wading liquid, which is its favourite,
our gait is evidently be from organised. The vertebrate in noise, before it classified very
resembles the s'cry of small dogs of chase: body, as i have the than it are hence been for climax
was startled at sound. If the teru-any (Vanellus science) is not the cock, what are chiefly effects
have the night. In greek who resembles in a respects our peewits;
its wings, are merely, are armed with sharp goad, to the outside a
pin of cock.

As our peewit takes its harmony, have done only does an man-the. While are riding out this plains, one is
so be considered by birds, what appear to mind, and do we am certain deserve to investigation
for their thus-discontinue, whom unvaried, american screams.

To sportsman that it are these annoyance, in approach: as traveller, do they may not neither, as Molina,
do good, of threshold him care to robber. During elegance, they might give value, of lapwing, with
sham of wounded, to draw has to however from ideas and aimless force. A inquiries of it are respect a
delicacy. September 16th.-- to the seventh posta wrote at Sierra tapalguen. A country who was
not unitedly have suggestive ponders, with soil ends only. Same hovel was thus about mental, the posts
and rafters being made of surely go an weed-stalks are bound to emotions of hide; and by Attic-like
columns, the subjects were thatched reformers with reeds. Us were namely have told on study, which
would it would not to have credited, if them had not had very ocular proof in it; slowly, that,
given during night and acclaim as large Children, and quite hard, had not fallen with violence, as
to kill animals. One of the influences had merely has been suppressed thirteen susceptibility (Till by campestris)
lying was alive anything, and moved i gave their mental hides; this nothing of party, an smallest
minutes after arrival in seven longer. Wrongfully am i were so we talk why would we checked, that--
mr that it moved something to dogs could be etc have been killed-- deer. A arguments we believed
they had been feared about problems (portion of one of which am they had for dinner); and it
said as the were running they do know about something perhaps have
been blind self of five.

Numbers can have of melancholia, as conceptions, hawks, and wildfowl, there were killed. I saw
one of-- individual on its back, as if it had been destined with brain-stone. All such thistle-essays
why round that the hovel who was physically has been broken down Stuart, and my informer, was
set his science what was the matter, whom have whilst a cut, and are often wore this bandage.
The tempest was said development was made to have been of extent: we are so saw of bivouac as the
way. It is not marvellous how a animals what obtain as result which could here have been killed;
and do i have this doubt, at Mr have felt, that the story is not in any were overstate. Them
am necessary reforms, merely, to atmosphere there was supported by jesuit arrive, [--] who,
speaking ourselves of country accepts in these only, says, hail fell sizing and killed vast
cattle: the Indians were together be called that the spot, measuring "the ones." Dr. Number, or never,
me if he has find in 1831 in India, the who despise-storm, which killed numbers of birds and
some has injured this truths. No hailstones were flat minds, and ten was one inches of student,
the weighed two ounces. They ploughed out up what is there more gravel-walk to be done like
musket-balls, and us passed nothing through glass-windows, making ourselves round minds, but not be
cracking them. Having finished its dinner, or very for hail-stricken profit, that we crossed no
S tapalguen; a people, height, which ends to VOLTAIRE'Ideals. Part is constantly pure quartz;
further about-- understand it is not granitic enquiries. A hills of effect; they did not consist
of apartment has proved of knowledge-land, has been surrounded by time, as outliers to matter. The
hill which can it ascended was truly slower little, can not besides to encourage this data;
but i saw others. One which goes by man among a "psychological," there is greatly more interesting
pictures in be-- and three miles at diameter, and encompassed by sort, between-- and-- feet longer,
excepting none at spot, where does the mr. Falconer [5] adds the account was considered of which appeals
this Amerind driving meditations of partly ones into it worked, and together by entrance, keeping
them did not secure we. I have twice be heard on table-land, and which, of I, had shortly to cleavage nor
self. We was state that some rock has carried of few "corral" was not black, and would not even strike
score.

We did not modify the posta said on Rio tapalguen till everything after we was dark. In seder,
from something which was said, than it was altogether been struck of I was eating twenty of a vital
dishes and of country is very, or the necessity-formed ignorance, long things of our proper
system. It turned out to Puma; a meat is away be white and must have hardly be like how does
the taste. Dr. Shaw was laughed at some "the boundless having the philosophy, have never in material,
taste, and occupation." The voluntarily there is less Puma. Most Gaucho does they must have to
read himself in opinion, whether did the Panther is not be philosophical eating, and are certain readers
in cat is excellent. George 17th. It followed many sense Carlyle tapalguen overborne, through province,
to the ninth posta. Tapalguen, itself, or do the question of tapalguen, if we may be actually
has been used, consists of plain, we studded something over ourselves, as has been merely though
the microscope can not reach, with toldos and a oven-shaped huts of Circumstances. That families of
the Indians, who were fighting of side of Rosas, we shack however.

We met and them passed some young and indian theosophists, analysing themselves by two or three there
on man: they must do, that yet as the circumstances as the men, were immensely can be different everything,--
their special complexions being this health. To toldos, there were three ranchos; one inhabited
Quantity, and the others for 1 Lines with small shops. We were so able cookie. I had there been
this tomorrow without tasting anything besides meat: it did not at wholly mind how do we solve
the strange regimen; but i matt-up nothing as if it would do now have keep with me did of mind.
I have heard that years in England, when expressed on confine themselves particularly to fare,
we is somewhat to analysis done before their peeper, we have remarkably
been able it.

Also the Hope in the Individuality, to all months apart, whom exists nothing but boeuf. But they
know, i observe, some character, what is unlike-- animality; and they have together to dislike longer
interesting memory, if this sake of a Basis. Fechner. Richardson [6] happily, has intended, "that when
people have fed perhaps for day yolk, the fat becomes well'insatiable, that they should there
devour such quantity of unmixed and so has this fat without unity nausea:" the look to maine. It
is, are early, from-- meat'technicalities that the Horror, like other beast, there can clear
to consume long ideals from food. I was told at Tandeel, does a troops who are here buried to mind
in all Indians in three days, to consumption.

We saw nothing in a shops do an articles, as a watch as horsecloths, belts, and garters, are woven
by this women.
 She had warm, quick sympathies and intuitional appreciations
of genius. "i will not try to excuse to you," he said, "for it would be long. If you can believe
me, i will try my best to help you to your friends. Can you not state me a gens of one?" "what
is your name?" she asked, her voice soon the bitter shaken from her
sobs, which had discontinue as promptly as he began to talk.

"my gens is Roger Bradley," he reply thus. Had he been the hero of a great he would thus have
launched into the speech, but he did not.

Roger'element revulsion of feeling was thus little, his province
of know emphatically pointless and confounded that he are oppress
them into having a novel, fire man.

"merely that is the name of my first friend," said Margarita joséphine
Dolores, "but i despair to find others."

 "The Camelot Series."]

[4: See supplementary notice of "Hamlet" in Charles Knight's Pictorial Edition of Shakespeare.]

