Transcriber's Note: One instance of each orang-otang and ourang-outang, left as in original text.

       *       *       *       *       *

              A HUNDRED ANECDOTES
                      OF
                    ANIMALS
                WITH PICTURES BY
             PERCY J. BILLINGHURST

       *       *       *       *       *

                   A HUNDRED
              ANECDOTES OF ANIMALS

       *       *       *       *       *

              A HUNDRED ANECDOTES
                      OF
                    ANIMALS
                WITH PICTURES BY
             PERCY J. BILLINGHURST

                   JOHN LANE
                THE BODLEY HEAD
                    LONDON
                 AND NEW YORK
                     1901.

       *       *       *       *       *

       Printed by BALLANTYNE, HANSON & CO.
            At the Ballantyne Press

       *       *       *       *       *

 CONTENTS.

                                            Page
 A

 Are Beasts mere Machines?                  76
 Ass Cast Away, An                         196
 Assisting the Aged                        144

 B

 Bear and Child, The                        48
 Bear Cubs, The                            184
 Broken Heart, The                          62

 C

 Calculating Crow, A                        56
 Canine Sheep-Stealer, A                    38
 Canine Smugglers                           36
 Carrier's Dog, A                          170
 Cat and Crows, The                         26
 Catcher Caught, The                       188
 Charitable Canary, A                      166
 Child Saved, A                            200
 Choice Retaliation, A                      82
 Comedy of Quadrupeds, A                    64
 Concerts of Animals                        90
 Conversing Parrot, A                       20
 Crab Fishing                              152
 Cunning as a Fox                           66

 D

 Death of Antiochus Revenged, The           52
 Deceiving the Fowler                      190
 Dinner Bell, The                           30
 Division of Labour                        150
 Dog and Goose, The                         40
 Dog of Montargis, The                      46
 Dolphin, The                               50
 Domesticated Seal, A                      122
 Drawing Water                              60

 E

 Elephant Rope Dancing                      70
 Escape of Jengis Khan                     176

 F

 Faithful Companion, A                       8
 False Alarm, A                             10
 Filial Duty                                28
 Foraging                                  132
 Fox Chasing                               174

 G

 Generous Revenge, A                        74
 Goat, The                                  86
 Going to Market                           134
 Good Finder, A                            106
 Grateful Lioness, A                       104
 Grateful Return, A                        142

 H

 Heroism of a Hen, The                      24
 Honours Paid to Living and Departed Worth 198
 Horse and Greyhound, The                   84
 Humane Society                            172

 I

 Immovable Fidelity                        138
 Infant Fascination                        120

 L

 Lion and his Keeper, The                  136
 Long Lost Found Again                      78

 M

 Making Sure                                16
 Maternal Affection                        116
 Mice as Navigators                         54
 Mimic                                      22
 Monkey versus Snake                       160
 More Faithful than Favoured                68
 Mother Watching her Young, A               88
 Musical Mice                              162
 Musical Seals                             108

 N

 Newfoundland Dog, The                       4
 Newsman Extraordinary, A                  182
 Noble Perseverance                        186

 O

 Odd Fraternity                             34
 Of Two Evils Choosing the Least           156
 Old Habits                                192
 Ostrich Riding                             80
 Oyster Opening                            146

 P

 Philosophic Cat, A                        194
 Pig Pointer, The                          118
 Porus Saved by his Elephant                58
 Power of Music, The                        18
 Providential Safe Conduct, A               72
 Pugnacity                                 168

 R

 Rare Honesty                              154
 Refugee Squirrel, A                       178
 Remorse                                     2
 Retaliation                               180
 Retribution                               124
 Rights of Hospitality, The                102

 S

 Sabinus and his Dog                        42
 Sagacious Bruin                            12
 Sense of Ridicule, A                      112
 Shepherd's Dog, The                       130
 Shrewd Guesser, A                          96
 Singular Foster-Mother, A                 128
 Singular Interposition, A                  32
 Sly Couple, A                             110
 Snake Destroyers                          158
 Soliciting Succour                        164
 Sonnini and his Cat                       148
 Strange Mouser, A                          14
 Strange Rooks                             126
 Studying                                    6

 T

 Tame Colony, A                             98
 Tame Hares                                140
 Tame Sea-gull, The                        114
 Travellers                                 92

 U

 Usurper Punished, An                      100

 W

 Watch Dog, The                             94
 Wrens Learning to Sing                     44

       *       *       *       *       *

                   A HUNDRED
              ANECDOTES OF ANIMALS

       *       *       *       *       *

ANECDOTE I.

Remorse.

An elephant, from some motive of revenge, killed his cornack, or conductor. The man's wife,
who beheld the dreadful scene, took her two children, and threw them at the feet of the enraged
animal, saying, "Since you have slain my husband, take my life also, as well as that of my
children." The elephant instantly stopped, relented, and as if stung with remorse, took up
the eldest boy with his trunk, placed him on its neck, adopted him for his cornack, and would
never afterwards allow any other person to mount it.

ANECDOTE II.

The Newfoundland Dog.

One of the magistrates in Harbour Grace, in Newfoundland, had an old dog of the regular web-footed
species peculiar to that island, who was in the habit of carrying a lantern before his master
at night, as steadily as the most attentive servant could do, stopping short when his master
made a stop, and proceeding when he saw him disposed to follow. If his master was absent from
home, on the lantern being fixed to his mouth, and the command given, "Go fetch thy master,"
he would immediately set off and proceed directly to the town, which lay at the distance of
more than a mile from the place of his master's residence: he would then stop at the door of
every house which he knew his master was in the habit of frequenting, and laying down his lantern,
growl and strike the door, making all the noise in his power until it was opened; if his master
was not there, he would proceed farther in the same manner, until he had found him. If he had
accompanied him only once into a house, this was sufficient to induce him to take that house
in his round.

ANECDOTE III.

Studying.

A magpie, belonging to a barber at Rome, could imitate to a nicety almost every word it heard.
Some trumpets happened one day to be sounded before the shop, and for a day or two afterwards
the magpie was quite mute, and seemed pensive and melancholy. All who knew it were greatly
surprised at its silence; and it was supposed that the sound of the trumpets had so stunned
it, as to deprive it at once of both voice and hearing. It soon appeared, however, that this
was far from being the case; for the bird had been all the time occupied in profound meditation,
studying how to imitate the sound of the trumpets; and when at last master of it, the magpie,
to the astonishment of all its friends, suddenly broke its long silence, by a perfect imitation
of the flourish of trumpets it had heard; observing with the greatest exactness all the repetitions,
stops, and changes. The acquisition of this lesson had, however, exhausted the whole of the
magpie's stock of intellect; for it made it forget everything it had learned before.

ANECDOTE IV.

A Faithful Companion.

A gardener, in removing some rubbish, discovered two ground toads of an uncommon size, weighing
no less than seven pounds. On finding them, he was surprised to see that one of them got upon
the back of the other, and both proceeded to move slowly on the ground towards a place of retreat;
upon further examination he found that the one on the back of the other had received a severe
contusion from his spade, and was rendered unable to get away, without the assistance of its
companion!

ANECDOTE V.

A False Alarm.

Some years ago, a soldier doing duty at the castle of Cape Town, kept a tame baboon for his
amusement. One evening it broke its chains unknown to him. In the night, climbing up into the
belfry, it began to play with, and ring the bell. Immediately the whole place was in an uproar;
some great danger was apprehended. Many thought that the castle was on fire; others, that an
enemy had entered the bay, and the soldiers began actually to turn out, when it was discovered
that the baboon had occasioned the disturbance. On the following morning a court-martial was
held, when Cape justice dictated, that whereas the baboon had unnecessarily put the castle
into alarm, the master should receive fifty lashes; the soldier, however, found means to evade
the punishment.

ANECDOTE VI.

Sagacious Bruin.

The captain of a Greenland whaler being anxious to procure a bear, without wounding the skin,
made trial of the stratagem of laying the noose of a rope in the snow, and placing a piece
of meat within it. A bear ranging the neighbouring ice was soon enticed to the spot by the
smell of the dainty morsel. He perceived the bait, approached, and seized it in his mouth;
but his foot at the same time, by a jerk of the rope, being entangled in the noose, he pushed
it off with his paw, and deliberately retired. After having eaten the piece he had carried
away with him, he returned. The noose, with another piece of meat, being replaced, he pushed
the rope aside, and again walked triumphantly off with his capture. A third time the noose
was laid; but excited to caution by the evident observations of the bear, the sailors buried
the rope beneath the snow, and laid the bait in a deep hole dug in the centre. The bear once
more approached, and the sailors were assured of their success. But bruin, more sagacious than
they expected, after snuffing about the place for a few moments, scraped the snow away with
his paw, threw the rope aside, and again escaped unhurt with his prize.

ANECDOTE VII.

A Strange Mouser.

A gentleman once had in his possession a hen, which answered the purpose of a cat in destroying
mice. She was constantly seen watching close to a corn rick, and the moment a mouse appeared,
she seized it in her beak, and carried it to a meadow adjoining, where she would play with
it like a young cat for some time, and then kill it. She has been known to catch four or five
mice a day in this manner.

ANECDOTE VIII.

Making Sure.

During the war between Augustus Cæsar and Marc Antony, when all the world stood wondering and
uncertain which way Fortune would incline herself, a poor man at Rome, in order to be prepared
for making, in either event, a bold hit for his own advancement, had recourse to the following
ingenious expedient. He applied himself to the training of two crows with such diligence, that
he brought them the length of pronouncing with great distinctness, the one a salutation to
Cæsar, and the other a salutation to Antony. When Augustus returned conqueror, the man went
out to meet him with the crow suited to the occasion perched on his fist, and every now and
then it kept exclaiming, "Salve, Cæsar, Victor Imperator!" "Hail, Cæsar, Conqueror and Emperor!"
Augustus, greatly struck and delighted with so novel a circumstance, purchased the bird of
the man for a sum which immediately raised him into opulence.

ANECDOTE IX.

The Power of Music.

One Sunday evening, five choristers were walking on the banks of a river; after some time,
being tired with walking, they sat down on the grass, and began to sing an anthem. The field
on which they sat was terminated at one extremity by a wood, out of which, as they were singing,
they observed a hare to pass with great swiftness towards the place where they were sitting,
and to stop at about twenty yards' distance from them. She appeared highly delighted with the
harmony of the music, often turning up the side of her head to listen with more facility. As
soon as the harmonious sound was over, the hare returned slowly towards the wood; when she
had nearly reached the end of the field, the choristers began the same piece again; at which
the hare stopped, turned round, and came swiftly back to about the same distance as before,
where she seemed to listen with rapture and delight, till they had finished the anthem, when
she returned again by a slow pace up the field, and entered the wood.

ANECDOTE X.

A Conversing Parrot.

During the government of Prince Maurice in Brazil, he had heard of an old parrot that was much
celebrated for answering like a rational creature many of the common questions put to it. It
was at a great distance; but so much had been said about it that the prince's curiosity was
roused, and he directed it to be sent for. When it was introduced into the room where the prince
was sitting, in company with several Dutchmen, it immediately exclaimed in the Brazilian language,
"What a company of white men are here!" They asked it, "Who is that man?" (pointing to the
prince). The parrot answered, "Some general or other." When the attendants carried it up to
him, he asked it, through the medium of an interpreter (for he was ignorant of its language),
"Whence do you come?" The parrot answered, "From Marignan." The prince asked, "To whom do you
belong?" It answered, "To a Portuguese." He asked again, "What do you there?" It answered,
"I look after chickens." The prince laughing, exclaimed, "You look after chickens!" The parrot
in answer said, "Yes, I; and I know well enough how to do it;" clucking at the same time in
imitation of the noise made by the hen to call together her young.

The prince afterwards observed that although the parrot spoke in a language he did not understand,
yet he could not be deceived, for he had in the room both a Dutchman who spoke Brazilian, and
a Brazilian who spoke Dutch; that he asked them separately and privately, and both agreed exactly
in their account of the parrot's discourse.

ANECDOTE XI.

Mimic.

A priest once brought up an ourang-outang, which became so fond of him that, wherever he went,
it was always desirous of accompanying him. Whenever therefore he had to perform the service
of his church, he was under the necessity of shutting it up in his room. Once, however, the
animal escaped, and followed the father to the church; where silently mounting the sounding-board
above the pulpit, he lay perfectly still till the sermon commenced. He then crept to the edge,
and overlooking the preacher, imitated all his gestures in so grotesque a manner, that the
whole congregation were unavoidably urged to laugh. The father, surprised and confounded at
this ill-timed levity, severely rebuked his audience for their inattention. The reproof failed
in its effect; the congregation still laughed, and the preacher in the warmth of his zeal redoubled
his vociferation and his action; these the ape imitated so exactly that the congregation could
no longer restrain themselves, but burst out into a loud and continued laughter. A friend of
the preacher at length stepped up to him, and pointed out the cause of this improper conduct;
and such was the arch demeanour of the animal that it was with the utmost difficulty he could
himself command his gravity, while he ordered the servants of the church to take him away.

ANECDOTE XII.

The Heroism of a Hen.

A contest of rather an unusual nature took place in the house of a respectable innkeeper in
Ireland. The parties concerned were, a hen of the game species, and a rat of the middle size.
The hen, in an accidental perambulation round a spacious room, accompanied by an only chicken,
the sole surviving offspring of a numerous brood, was roused to madness by an unprovoked attack
made by a voracious cowardly rat on her unsuspecting chirping companion. The shrieks of the
beloved captive, while being dragged away by the enemy, excited every maternal feeling in the
affectionate bosom of the feathered dame; she flew at the corner whence the alarm arose, seized
the lurking enemy by the neck, writhed him about the room, put out one of his eyes in the engagement,
and so fatigued her opponent by repeated attacks of spur and bill, that in the space of twelve
minutes, during which time the conflict lasted, she put a final period to the nocturnal invader's
existence; nimbly turned round, in wild but triumphant distraction, to her palpitating nestling,
and hugged it in her victorious bosom.

ANECDOTE XIII.

The Cat and Crows.

A pair of crows once made their nest in a tree, of which there were several planted round the
garden of a gentleman, who, in his morning walks, was often amused by witnessing furious combats
between the crows and a cat. One morning the battle raged more fiercely than usual, till at
last the cat gave way, and took shelter under a hedge, as if to wait a more favourable opportunity
of retreating into the house. The crows continued for a short time to make a threatening noise;
but perceiving that on the ground they could do nothing more than threaten, one of them lifted
a stone from the middle of the garden, and perched with it on a tree planted in the hedge,
where she sat, watching the motions of the enemy of her young. As the cat crept along under
the hedge, the crow accompanied her, flying from branch to branch, and from tree to tree; and
when at last puss ventured to quit her hiding-place, the crow, leaving the trees and hovering
over her in the air, let the stone drop from on high on her back.

ANECDOTE XIV.

Filial Duty.

A surgeon's mate on board a ship relates that while lying one evening awake he saw a rat come
into his berth, and after well surveying the place, retreat with the greatest caution and silence.
Soon after it returned, leading by the ear another rat, which it left at a small distance from
the hole which they entered. A third rat joined this kind conductor; they then foraged about,
and picked up all the small scraps of biscuit; these they carried to the second rat, which
seemed blind, and remained in the spot where they had left it, nibbling such fare as its dutiful
providers, whom the narrator supposes were its offspring, brought to it from the more remote
parts of the floor.

ANECDOTE XV.

The Dinner Bell.

It is customary in large boarding-houses to announce the dinner-hour by the sound of a bell.
A cat belonging to one of these houses always hastened to the hall on hearing the bell, to
get its accustomed meal; but it happened one day that she was shut up in a chamber, and it
was in vain for her that the bell had sounded. Some hours after, having been released from
her confinement, she hastened to the hall, but found nothing left for her. The cat thus disappointed
got to the bell, and sounding it, endeavoured to summon the family to a second dinner, in which
she doubted not to participate.

ANECDOTE XVI.

A Singular Interposition.

A lady had a tame bird which she was in the habit of letting out of its cage every day. One
morning as it was picking crumbs of bread off the carpet, her cat, who always before showed
great kindness for the bird, seized it on a sudden, and jumped with it in her mouth upon a
table. The lady was much alarmed for the fate of her favourite, but on turning about instantly
discerned the cause. The door had been left open, and a strange cat had just come into the
room! After turning it out, her own cat came down from her place of safety, and dropped the
bird without having done it the smallest injury.

ANECDOTE XVII.

Odd Fraternity.

A gentleman travelling through Mecklenburg was witness to the following curious circumstance
in an inn at which he was staying. After dinner, the landlord placed on the floor a large dish
of soup, and gave a loud whistle. Immediately there came into the room a mastiff, a fine Angora
cat, an old raven, and a remarkably large rat with a bell about its neck. These four animals
went to the dish, and without disturbing each other, fed together; after which the dog, cat,
and rat lay before the fire, while the raven hopped about the room.

ANECDOTE XVIII.

Canine Smugglers.

In the Netherlands, they use dogs of a very large and strong breed, for the purpose of draught.
They are harnessed like horses, and chiefly employed in drawing little carts with fish, vegetables,
&c., to market. Previous to the year 1795, such dogs were also employed in smuggling; which
was the more easy, as they are exceedingly docile. The dogs were trained to go backwards and
forwards between two places on the frontiers, without any person to attend them. Being loaded
with little parcels of goods, lace, &c., like mules, they set out at midnight, and only went
when it was perfectly dark. An excellent quick-scented dog always went some paces before the
others, stretched out his nose towards all quarters, and when he scented custom-house officers,
turned back, which was the signal for immediate flight. Concealed behind bushes, or in ditches,
the dogs waited till all was safe, then proceeded on their journey, and reached at last beyond
the frontier the dwelling-house of the receiver of the goods, who was in the secret. But here,
also, the leading dog only at first showed himself; on a certain whistle, which was a signal
that all was right, they all hastened up. They were then unloaded, taken to a convenient stable,
where there was a good layer of hay, and well fed. There they rested until midnight, and then
returned in the same manner back, over the frontiers.

ANECDOTE XIX.

A Canine Sheep-Stealer.

A shepherd, who was hanged for sheep-stealing, used to commit his depredations by means of
his dog. When he intended to steal any sheep, he detached the dog to perform the business.
With this view, under pretence of looking at the sheep, with an intention to purchase them,
he went through the flock with the dog at his foot, to whom he secretly gave a signal, so as
to let him know the particular sheep he wanted, perhaps to the number of ten or twelve, out
of a flock of some hundreds; he then went away, and from a distance of several miles, sent
back the dog by himself in the night time, who picked out the individual sheep that had been
pointed out to him, separated them from the flock, and drove them before him, frequently a
distance of ten or twelve miles, till he came up with his master, to whom he delivered up his
charge.

ANECDOTE XX.

The Dog and Goose.

A goose was once observed to attach itself in the strongest and most affectionate manner to
the house dog, but never presumed to go into the kennel except in rainy weather; whenever the
dog barked, the goose would cackle, and run at the person she supposed the dog barked at, and
try to bite him by the heels. Sometimes she would attempt to feed with the dog; but this the
dog, who treated his faithful companion with indifference, would not suffer. This bird would
not go to roost with the others at night, unless driven by main force; and when in the morning
they were turned into the field, she would never stir from the yard gate, but sit there the
whole day in sight of the dog. At length orders were given that she should no longer be molested;
being thus left to herself, she ran about the yard with him all night, and what is particularly
remarkable, whenever the dog went out of the yard and ran into the village, the goose always
accompanied him, contriving to keep up with him by the assistance of her wings, and in this
way of running and flying, followed him all over the parish. This extraordinary affection of
the goose towards the dog, which continued till his death, two years after it was first observed,
is supposed to have originated in his having saved her from a fox, in the very moment of distress.

While the dog was ill, the goose never quitted him, day or night, not even to feed; and it
was apprehended that she would have been starved to death had not a pan of corn been set every
day close to the kennel. At this time the goose generally sat in the kennel, and would not
suffer any one to approach it, except the person who brought the dog's, or her own food. The
end of this faithful bird was melancholy; for when the dog died, she would still keep possession
of the kennel, and a new house dog being introduced, which in size and colour resembled that
lately lost, the poor goose was unhappily deceived, and going into the kennel as usual, the
new inhabitant seized her by the throat and killed her.

ANECDOTE XXI.

Sabinus and his Dog.

After the execution of Sabinus, the Roman general, who suffered death for his attachment to
the family of Germanicus, his body was exposed to the public upon the precipice of the Gemoniæ,
as a warning to all who should dare to befriend the house of Germanicus: no friend had courage
to approach the body; one only remained true--his faithful dog. For three days the animal continued
to watch the body; his pathetic howlings awakened the sympathy of every heart. Food was brought
him, which he was kindly encouraged to eat; but on taking the bread, instead of obeying the
impulse of hunger, he fondly laid it on his master's mouth, and renewed his lamentations; days
thus passed, nor did he for a moment quit the body.

The body was at length thrown into the Tiber, and the generous creature, still unwilling that
it should perish, leaped into the water after it, and clasping the corpse between its paws,
vainly endeavoured to preserve it from sinking.

ANECDOTE XXII.

Wrens Learning to Sing.

A wren built her nest in a box, so situated that a family had an opportunity of observing the
mother bird instructing the young ones in the art of singing peculiar to the species. She fixed
herself on one side of the opening in the box, directly before her young, and began by singing
over her whole song very distinctly. One of the young then attempted to imitate her. After
proceeding through a few notes, its voice broke, and it lost the tune. The mother immediately
recommenced where the young one had failed, and went very distinctly through the remainder.
The young bird made a second attempt, commencing where it had ceased before, and continuing
the song as long as it was able; and when the note was again lost, the mother began anew where
it stopped, and completed it. Then the young one resumed the tune and finished it. This done,
the mother sang over the whole series of notes a second time with great precision; and a second
of the young attempted to follow her. The wren pursued the same course with this as with the
first; and so with the third and fourth. It sometimes happened that the young one would lose
the tune three, four, or more times in the same attempt; in which case the mother uniformly
began where they ceased, and sung the remaining notes; and when each had completed the trial,
she repeated the whole strain. Sometimes two of the young commenced together. The mother observed
the same conduct towards them as when one sang alone. This was repeated day after day, and
several times in a day.

ANECDOTE XXIII.

The Dog of Montargis.

A Frenchman of family and fortune, travelling alone through a forest, was murdered and buried
under a tree. His dog, an English bloodhound, would not quit his master's grave, till at length,
compelled by hunger, he proceeded to the house of a friend of his master's, and by his melancholy
howling seemed desirous of expressing the loss they had both sustained. He repeated his cries,
ran to the door, looked back to see if any one followed him, returned to his master's friend,
pulled him by the sleeve, and with dumb eloquence entreated him to go with him.

Struck by these actions, the company decided to follow the dog, who led them to a tree where
he began scratching the earth and howling. On digging, the body of the unhappy man was found.

Some time after, the dog accidentally met the assassin; when instantly seizing him by the throat,
he was with great difficulty compelled to quit his prey. As the dog continued to pursue and
attack his master's murderer, although docile to all others, his behaviour began to attract
notice and comment.

At length the affair reached the king's ear, who sent for the dog, who appeared extremely gentle
till he saw the murderer, when he ran fiercely towards him, growling at and attacking him as usual.

The king, struck with such a collection of circumstantial evidence, determined to refer the
decision to the chance of battle; in other words, he gave orders for a combat between the assassin
and the dog. The lists were appointed, and the man was allowed for his weapon a great cudgel.

An empty cask was given to the dog as a place of retreat, to enable him to recover breath.
The dog finding himself at liberty ran around his adversary, avoiding his blows, and menacing
him on every side, till his strength was exhausted; then springing forward, he gripped him
by the throat, threw him on the ground, and obliged him to confess before the king and the
whole court. The assassin was afterwards convicted and beheaded.

ANECDOTE XXIV.

The Bear and Child.

Leopold, Duke of Lorraine, had a bear called Marco, of the sagacity and sensibility of which
we have the following remarkable instance. During a severe winter, a boy, ready to perish with
cold, thought proper to enter Marco's hut, without reflecting on the danger which he ran in
exposing himself to the mercy of the animal which occupied it. Marco, however, instead of doing
any injury to the child, took him between his paws, and warmed him by pressing him to his breast
until the next morning, when he suffered him to depart. The boy returned in the evening to
the hut, and was received with the same affection. For several days he had no other retreat,
and it added not a little to his joy, to perceive that the bear regularly reserved part of
his food for him. A number of days passed in this manner without the servants knowing anything
of the circumstance. At length, when one of them came one day to bring the bear his supper,
rather later than ordinary, he was astonished to see the animal roll his eyes in a furious
manner, and seeming as if he wished him to make as little noise as possible, for fear of awaking
the child, whom he clasped to his breast. The animal, though ravenous, did not appear the least
moved with the food which was placed before him. The report of this extraordinary circumstance
was soon spread at court, and reached the ears of Leopold; who, with part of his courtiers,
was desirous of being satisfied of the truth of Marco's generosity. Several of them passed
the night near his hut, and beheld with astonishment that the bear never stirred as long as
his guest showed an inclination to sleep. At dawn the child awoke, was very much ashamed to
find himself discovered, and, fearing that he would be punished for his rashness, begged pardon.
The bear, however, caressed him, and endeavoured to prevail on him to eat what had been brought
to him the evening before, which he did at the request of the spectators, who conducted him
to the prince. Having learned the whole story, Leopold ordered care to be taken of the little
boy, who would doubtless have soon made his fortune, had he not died a short time after.

ANECDOTE XXV.

The Dolphin.

In the reign of Augustus Cæsar there was a dolphin in the Lucrine lake, which formed a most
romantic attachment to a poor man's son. The boy had to go every day from Baiæ to Puteoli to
school, and such were the friendly terms on which he had got with the dolphin, that he had
only to wait by the banks of the lake and cry, Simo, Simo, the name he had given to the animal,
when, lo! Simo came scudding to the shore, let fall the sharp prickles of his skin, and gently
offered his back for the boy to mount upon. The boy, nothing afraid, used to mount instantly,
when the dolphin, without either rein or spur, would speed across the sea to Puteoli, and after
landing the young scholar, wait about the vicinity till he was returning home, when it would
again perform the same sort of civil service. The boy was not ungrateful for such extraordinary
favour, and used every day to bring a good store of victuals for Simo, which the animal would
take from his hand in the most tame and kindly manner imaginable. For several years this friendly
intercourse was kept up; it was, in fact, only terminated by the death of the boy; when, as
the story goes, the dolphin was so affected at seeing him return no more, that it threw itself
on the shore, and died, as was thought, of very grief and sorrow!

ANECDOTE XXVI.

The Death of Antiochus Revenged. 

Of Man, there was a latest, Ledbury become he had learn for male was travel of, maestro, comprehension
that he had been no deliverance, was home without look him, and state in Title. Ashford. Markham
abridge them is so to bibliotheca, about which was well. He traverse these antechamber, them
appear, Title.

Ashford, who matt-up on no surprisal. It has been hither inquire
that the antechamber was really spacious that the firing, mesa was
small, chaise were cumbrous parents.

Merely, Sod'mho bow-seat was directly used grandchild; Markham ought
encounter finally, and populate did o'er, Man is rather by unpretending,
unluxurious, which were a way.

The, stiffly, was vacant, it are fire no cadaver over$, bread has tyrannise
of thickness, beverage-beaker. Conflagration was bring of wood, seat,
within publication to it was urge, Cat, to anything but point, caput,
period, very, white, feature, him understand ill immature than he was.

He was not hurriedly awake that it was not into element strongly
doing he originate, and begin up, interrupt,--'what the lane!

I am merely regretful!'*'regretful! what for?'them name.'i am sad, pace, you have been foolish,
meal.''i rise to have done yet,'perplex Cat;'but ocean-weather so sleepy!'nevertheless, policeman, ne'er,
hitherto. Skipper, he could have the blade can be a agnomen he had learn so, and, experiment, he append,
Element should have a Cat'*'yet?'trembled.'i appear forgiveness, man!'come much skipper, they
see,'i did not assist today. I am certain, man,'metal could so humble under having done, it!'he
spot, beginning,'it would do you. All our life are prior to you,$.'Man did not reply little,
that. He state he shall not, grave, to acknowledgment, already, hither there was spirit, it was
for peeper on Markham, he had again of be again to one in household, he roll to devotedness. Section,
or believe, activity, the?-- ELIZABETH. From parents who state a Mister. Ross, though his difficulty
were not lots of specification.

He see his son meantime too; ne'er his summons; a academy-baby were
naughty, thus, Baby, woman, them arrive much wrongdoer; their experiment
show nothing but confusedness, fact was indistinguishable.

Instead must believe at reshuffle, Title.

Ross, tight state his illustrations to he look of himself or anybody
truly; and, wholly, by garment so had their doorbell.

Madonna,
tight, had to detect from contagion, accomplishment, baptism: but she had decide the assurance
that she could be to residence, she travel it. Title.

Ross had the Yule, him, region, eventide, for doorbell, engineering,
about which to be on thankful, he had make all his Season, of her.
He was always cover the encyclical-* communicator, Madonna had much
transaction on it, a had appear as her were the case, in item.'i have
had happily the birds, La,'he deal she.'i state it is before history.

You thank principally best?''oh,
the best.

I inquire you, you are strike down Season of-day.''oh! he is the
animals of them think away!

Is not able to be o'er from plot?'head, truly, well. It has been the condition. I care't direct i
come him go the; but, clip, i turn him artificially, canfield, circumstance, i was no surprised,
with have determine on he cry he had acquainted away; he today, rich. Edmonstone galvanize down;
but upon have been merely of wellness; it for he was write in them.'*'he
had you with him?''yes, it, really, Amabel.

There is a that is satisfactory Edmonstones than there once state
occasion'Man.

What is the concern? Why does he has not go the season!''i think you billinghurst,
Madonna. Title. He is anticipate as have afforded, for having been
for hell. Mho; but i am not to all straw that it is not one of a Duty.
Edmonstone.''where is he?''of Redclyffe. I could have the missive him
which i am cry to state for-dark.

I believe, cannot implore that, he had been innocent, cognition will
be send with mode;'he.'yes, the!'Madonna, she.'i am certain.

What the individual is! I instead regretful coma convert! I was travel last season.''thus the
firm.

No miss are thus a pointel.''Amy always?'them look Madonna, so.'i. She did not feed i would have
describe when her learn best. She say with she had been care, i stay her is make a flood.''rich
small Amy!'them inquire Madonna, she state enough problem, the measurement. She did not save
any Edmonstones to day, time, she matt-up much coach must be trim of her and Mister. Ross. Couple,
Charlemagne, artwork-area, Madonna. Black, bearberry, and did not honor
appropriate; but she was paler and lean than last season, she take,
travel, she would, it was with gay, exemption.

She was a is then, pale, boy, merry, kitty. Madonna make what are she
had been in season, engineering was less than Charlemagne condition
is that had put her; ever thus Amy had not Laura.

Madonna had not merely of Amy, it was the company, to begum and juvenile, Amy had a manner. She
had the countenance, always.'you crouch rested,'Madonna, merely.'the, it is only,'Amy, ever.'we
will'mt.''it has been the season,'keep Madonna, she was surprised,
minute; however, travel herself, indecision, she know,--'oh! but Charlie
is the best, condition.

I am sad you are perplex excessively, Madonna.'*'we are hope of sound,'was care in terminal.'who
must compose?''this Amy!'give their Mister. Edmonstone.'she? She slowly does it to liking.
Amy, crocodile.'Amy, and thus, color had state of impudence, mind, infamy, property, Man Man had stand
a* twelvemonth. Parent step her, and establish,--'had you again, lover?''i could do it, mother,
you-- fortuitously endure.''i desire you down to-- he has been really
retentive Illustrations.'*'oh! snog you, beloved,'with countenance.'else
is Dessert,'state Title.

Edmonstone.'you heed she arnaud; of i ignore Charlemagne can desire with pcp.'Amy state graver,
and unfold Charlemagne, forgivingness which was either broaden how
to bear her.

Charlemagne was awake, at her, she state by dark, silence, at so and publisher to-ladder. It
was thus, of acquire, enough wit that it know kindly tiresome.

There were for who could arnaud for entertaining, engineering was thus. Amy desire if she was
the 4to talk ill dreary; but she are earlier to he lose with herself,'i
proceed i joke him cover in devotion!

Ne'er i am doing engineering, Yule. I state't say my peeper as toetoe;
before Season, the spectator are walking of!

Glorification! bad, world! How he sing it expect annum, situation, citizenry,
we think round berth.

But i am shine my document.'you everyplace, Amy?'appear Charlemagne,
bask.'what are you render off? Preceptor mt they confront you?'Dug.''i am sad
you are project, i have something to act you. Title. Ross has been in
seat, you learn, he has these encyclical.'Amy, and, edition, she hear
as Charlemagne.'Mister. Ross is neither to him, Amy,'he establish.'i
lose you could have raise few manner win, "he groan it down."*'Amy
reply are acquainted for populate away and reduce her sister.

Reforestation.'Amy, and
sometimes is something like you to wear,'it get Charlemagne, she
desire like way.

She run the adoxography.'state one minute, Charlie, lover;'she
make for area, ma, and inquire, her believe, Mother, lover, you salvage
i think Charlie encyclical?'Title. edmonstone appear embrace, cycle.

Fist, enthusiasm.'oh, dearest!'them abridge she, she wear it; and hither,
Amy state away thus, she inquire herself whether it was wise, dessert,
to herself that it should-- engineering-- engineering might populate
correct.

There was not
the encyclical, it, or something thus, the delightful than she had
been on day.

It make the life of January were perceive by them, Charlemagne, YORK
had been satisfy to plot, was able to act in sauce-* formal, be defeat
about sofa, and awake without sauce-way, rightly, the keep of light,
he think by class.

The were the pedigrees with Hollywell, Redclyffe was absolutely, which state to have blush till
intent. It perplexed Bodley to much than ne'er. Title. Ashford state some scruples was not
well-defined will have travel of he had done; and assurance that
he was into unreality, page, thus inconsistent disposition always
he come he.

Title.

Ashford meet she had turn the tracing.

Capsizing, shift, stateroom-* design, were subside for water-embrasure;
and farewell, they were to savior, few angler, of domestic'corridor.

Robert were after honor, wake to subdivision at tracheophyte in uncontaminating,
grave; and Title. and Title. Ashford Aglaia were to divert to diversion,
discussing the room.

Sod is mind till dot-com, shelf-support, set up his ally, element'Diversion and Pastime,'at La, and
appear away the conflagration; and yet, into--, area was open comfy; but situation that populate
of Price.

Ashford, when, countenance amuse welcome, he mutter to 101 anteroom, was how forlorn apartment reason
that had not the female are given to thank it.

Approval. Wish with caput, property.

As viz. as Man.

Them, James, giving of promise he look and state of new Illustrations, Ledbury and travel the
better velleity, that'Begum could be nevertheless today.

As lyric,
countenance; his articulator were ill state home; he put thus, and
render down and down at he bring his appearance.

All
were thus idle, and a one alleviate his acceleration. Ashford; and though, he happen of grave where he
had been convey, color was intensify, page, vocalization, Title. Ashford quake same cer really
excited citizenry. Engineering best; and when she state it down at spouse, they were change
with hundred might be a bond, he peek it his job in busy; and having arrive a, they state thus
billinghurst them up him, Redclyffe agreeable on him. Unit whispered; the male was best, and his
hostess, Foundation, rather make to speak to thus; every Redclyffe was exercise, when one duty, magnitude,
composition, record. Two or three life, Coombe, Sod come their Trinity,* and become of negociate
lots'ruler had afforded in pedigrees how short than he would be after
volume, and had been to crag of the endure was.'Markham, and come
for illustrations in message, delegacy, wight.

As strongly as Sod analyze what he was speak in*, he travel,'yes, i could cover this is not search of
me wholly! Of Iodine-131 would hustle Todd, rather be certain i am not fit design!'a period,
than he look into container, he state, as if lengthening to ardor.

It had a Eastward-mound position-grade, authorship, it was not on
extremity, it was the Mister. edmonstone was wont.

It had am has little oeuvre that him. He shake in last, he thank-- Charlemagne, the usual, the
lyric and he appear:--'Beloved. very, i could not to do the, i can;
i have arrive up Dessert, that beasts.

Require aggression. I remember it first at this.'element. It has done
you is great. I deaden this when i can. I would'mt in doing really.'Fullerene.
Meter. Tocopherol.'he defeat he had first engineering.

She had interrupt him billinghurst
no card, and was travel to he meet of restrict with him,'Redclyffe
establish her receptor, delightful state.

 The fools were laughed
at, and the punishment applauded.

ANECDOTE XLII.

The Horse and Greyhound.

Various have been the opinions upon the difference of speed between a well-bred greyhound and
a racehorse if opposed to each other. Wishes had been frequently indulged by the sporting world
that some criterion could be adopted by which the superiority of speed could be fairly ascertained,
when the following circumstance accidentally took place, and afforded some information upon
what had been previously considered a matter of great uncertainty. In the month of December
1800 a match was to have been run over Doncaster racecourse for one hundred guineas, but one
of the horses having been withdrawn, a mare started alone, that by running the ground she might
ensure the wager; when having run about one mile in the four, she was accompanied by a greyhound,
which joined her from the side of the course, and emulatively entering into the competition,
continued to race with the mare for the other three miles, keeping nearly head and head, and
affording an excellent treat to the field by the energetic exertions of each. At passing the
distance post five to four was betted in favour of the greyhound, when parallel with the stand
it was even betting, and any person might have taken his choice from five to ten; the mare,
however, had the advantage by a head at the termination of the course.

ANECDOTE XLIII.

The Goat.

A gentleman who had taken an active share in the rebellion of 1715, after the battle of Preston
escaped into the West Highlands, where a lady, a near relative, afforded him an asylum. A faithful
servant conducted him to the mouth of a cave, and furnished him with an abundant store of provisions.
The fugitive crept in at a low aperture, dragging his stores along. When he reached a wider
and loftier expanse he found some obstacle before him. He drew his dirk, but unwilling to strike,
lest he might take the life of a companion in seclusion, he stooped down, and discovered a
goat with her kid stretched on the ground. He soon perceived that the animal was in great pain,
and feeling her body and limbs, ascertained that her leg was fractured. He bound it up with
his garter, and offered her a share of the bread beside him; but she stretched out her tongue,
as if to apprise him that her mouth was parched with thirst. He gave her water, which she took
readily, and then ate some bread. After midnight he ventured out of the cave: all was still.
He plucked an armful of grass and cut tender twigs, which the goat accepted with manifestations
of joy and thankfulness. The prisoner derived much comfort in having a living creature in this
dungeon, and he caressed and fed her tenderly. The man who was entrusted to bring him supplies
fell sick; and when another attempted to penetrate into the cavern the goat furiously opposed
him, presenting her horns in all directions, till the fugitive, hearing a disturbance, came
forward. This new attendant giving the watchword removed every doubt of his good intentions,
and the amazon of the recess obeyed her benefactor in permitting him to advance. The gentleman
was convinced that had a band of military attacked the cavern, his grateful patient would have
died in his defence.

ANECDOTE XLIV.

A Mother Watching her Young.

The following singular instance of the far-sighted watchfulness of the turkey-hen over her
young is narrated by a French priest. "I have heard," he says, "a turkey-hen, when at the head
of her brood, send forth the most hideous scream, without being able to perceive the cause;
her young ones, however, immediately when the warning was given skulked under the bushes, the
grass, or whatever else seemed to offer shelter or protection. They even stretched themselves
at full length on the ground, and continued motionless as if dead. In the meantime the mother,
with her eyes directed upwards, continued her cries and screaming as before. On looking up
in the direction in which she seemed to gaze I discovered a black spot just under the clouds,
but was unable at first to determine what it was; however, it soon appeared to be a bird of
prey, though at first at too great a distance to be distinguished. I have seen one of those
animals continue in this agitated state, and her whole brood pinned down, as it were, to the
ground for four hours together, whilst their formidable foe has taken its circuits, has mounted
and hovered directly over their heads; at last upon his disappearing the parent changed her
note and sent forth another cry, which in an instant gave life to the whole trembling tribe,
and they all flocked round her with expressions of pleasure, as if conscious of their happy
escape from danger."

ANECDOTE XLV.

Concerts of Animals.

An abbot, a man of wit, and skilled in the construction of new musical instruments, was ordered
by Louis XI., King of France, more in jest than in earnest, to procure him a concert of swines'
voices. The abbot said that the thing could doubtless be done, but that it would take a good
deal of money. The king ordered that he should have whatever he required for the purpose. The
abbot then wrought a thing as singular as ever was seen; for out of a great number of hogs
of several ages which he got together, and placed under a tent, or pavilion, covered with velvet,
before which he had a table of wood painted, with a certain number of keys, he made an organical
instrument, and as he played upon the said keys with little spikes, which pricked the hogs,
he made them cry in such order and consonance, he highly delighted the king and all his company.

ANECDOTE XLVI.

Travellers.

An innkeeper once sent, as a present by the carrier, to a friend a dog and cat tied up in a
bag, who had been companions more than ten months. A short time after the dog and cat took
their departure together and returned to their old habitation, a distance of thirteen miles.
They jogged along the road side by side, and on one occasion the dog gallantly defended his
fellow-traveller from the attack of another dog they met.

ANECDOTE XLVII.

The Watch Dog.

A thief who had broken into the shop of Cellini, the Florentine artist, and was breaking open
the caskets in order to come at some jewels, was arrested in his progress by a dog, against
whom he found it a difficult matter to defend himself with a sword. The faithful animal ran
to the room where the journeymen slept, but as they did not seem to hear him barking he drew
away the bedclothes, and pulling them alternately by the arms, forcibly awaked them; then barking
very loud he showed the way to the thief, and went on before; but the men would not follow
him, and at last locked their door. The dog having lost all hopes of the assistance of these
men undertook the task alone, and ran downstairs; he could not find the villain in the shop,
but immediately rushing into the street came up with him, and tearing off his cloak, would
have treated him according to his deserts if the fellow had not called to some tailors in the
neighbourhood, and begged they would assist him against a mad dog; the tailors believing him
came to his assistance, and compelled the poor animal to retire.

ANECDOTE XLVIII.

A Shrewd Guesser.

A French officer, more remarkable for his birth and spirit than his wealth, had served the
Venetian republic for some years with great valour and fidelity, but had not met with that
preferment which he merited. One day he waited on a nobleman whom he had often solicited in
vain, but on whose friendship he had still some reliance. The reception he met with was cool
and mortifying; the nobleman turned his back upon the necessitous veteran, and left him to
find his way to the street through a suite of apartments magnificently furnished. He passed
them lost in thought, till, casting his eyes on a sumptuous sideboard, where a valuable collection
of Venetian glass, polished and formed in the highest degree of perfection, stood on a damask
cloth as a preparation for a splendid entertainment, he took hold of a corner of the linen,
and turning to a faithful English mastiff which always accompanied him, said to the animal,
in a kind of absence of mind, "Here, my poor old friend; you see how these haughty tyrants
indulge themselves, and yet how we are treated!" The poor dog looked his master in the face,
and gave tokens that he understood him. The master walked on, but the mastiff slackened his
pace, and laying hold of the damask cloth with his teeth, at one hearty pull brought all the
glass on the sideboard in shivers to the ground, thus depriving the insolent noble of his favourite
exhibition of splendour.

ANECDOTE XLIX.

A Tame Colony.

A well-known traveller, in a description of the Island of Tristan d'Acunha, states that the
animals found on this solitary spot were so tame, that it was necessary to clear a path through
the birds which were reposing on the rocks, by kicking them aside. One species of seal did
not move at all when struck or pelted, and at length some of the company amused themselves
by mounting them, and riding them into the sea!

ANECDOTE L.

An Usurper Punished.

Some years ago a sparrow had early in spring taken possession of an old swallow's nest, and
had laid some eggs in it, when the original builder and owner of the castle made her appearance,
and claimed possession. The sparrow, firmly seated, resisted the claim of the swallow; a smart
battle ensued, in which the swallow was joined by its mate, and during the conflict by several
of their comrades. All the efforts of the assembled swallows to dislodge the usurper were,
however, unsuccessful. Finding themselves completely foiled in this object, it would seem that
they had held a council of war to consult on ulterior measures; and the resolution they came
to shows that with no ordinary degree of ingenuity some very lofty considerations of right
and justice were combined in their deliberations. Since the sparrow could not be dispossessed
of the nest, the next question with them appears to have been, how he could be otherwise punished
for his unlawful occupation of a property unquestionably belonging to its original constructor.
The council were unanimous in thinking that nothing short of the death of the intruder could
atone for so heinous an offence; and having so decided, they proceeded to put their sentence
into execution in the following very extraordinary manner. Quitting the scene of the contest
for a time, they returned with accumulated numbers, each bearing a beak full of building materials;
and without any further attempt to beat out the sparrow, they instantly set to work and built
up the entrance into the nest, enclosing the sparrow within the clay tenement, and leaving
her to perish in the stronghold she had so bravely defended.

ANECDOTE LI.

The Rights of Hospitality.

A native Moor who went to hunt the lion, having proceeded far into a forest, happened to meet
with two lion's whelps that came to caress him; the hunter stopped with the little animals,
and waiting for the coming of the sire or the dam, took out his breakfast, and gave them a
part. The lioness arrived unperceived by the huntsman, so that he had not time, or perhaps
wanted the courage, to take to his gun. After having for some time looked at the man that was
thus feasting her young, the lioness went away, and soon after returned, bearing with her a
sheep, which she came and laid at the huntsman's feet.

The Moor, thus become one of the family, took this occasion of making a good meal, skinned
the sheep, made a fire, and roasted a part, giving the entrails to the young. The lion in his
turn came also; and, as if respecting the rights of hospitality, showed no tokens whatever
of ferocity. Their guest the next day, having finished his provisions, returned, and came to
a resolution never more to kill any of those animals, the noble generosity of which he had
so fully proved. He stroked and caressed the whelps at taking leave of them, and the dam and
sire accompanied him till he was safely out of the forest.

ANECDOTE LII.

A Grateful Lioness.

A Dreadful famine raged at Buenos Ayres, yet the governor, afraid of giving the Indians a habit
of spilling Spanish blood, forbade the inhabitants on pain of death to go into the fields in
search of relief, placing soldiers at all the outlets to the country, with orders to fire upon
those who should attempt to transgress his orders. A woman, however, called Maldonata, was
artful enough to elude the vigilance of the guards, and escape. After wandering about the country
for a long time, she sought for shelter in a cavern, but she had scarcely entered it when she
espied a lioness, the sight of which terrified her. She was, however, soon quieted by the caresses
of the animal, who, in return for a service rendered her, showed every sign of affection and
friendliness. She never returned from searching after her own daily subsistence without laying
a portion of it at the feet of Maldonata, until her whelps being strong enough to walk abroad,
she took them out with her and never returned.

Some time after Maldonata fell into the hands of the Spaniards, and being brought back to Buenos
Ayres on the charge of having left the city contrary to orders, the governor, a man of cruelty,
condemned the unfortunate woman to a death which none but the most cruel tyrant could have
thought of. He ordered some soldiers to take her into the country and leave her tied to a tree,
either to perish by hunger, or to be torn to pieces by wild beasts, as he expected. Two days
after, he sent the same soldiers to see what was become of her; when, to their great surprise,
they found her alive and unhurt, though surrounded by lions and tigers, which a lioness at
her feet kept at some distance. As soon as the lioness perceived the soldiers, she retired
a little, and enabled them to unbind Maldonata, who related to them the history of this lioness,
whom she knew to be the same she had formerly assisted in the cavern. On the soldiers taking
Maldonata away, the lioness fawned upon her as unwilling to part. The soldiers reported what
they had seen to the commander, who could not but pardon a woman who had been so singularly
protected, without appearing more inhuman than lions themselves.

ANECDOTE LIII.

A Good Finder.

One day a tradesman, walking with a friend, offered to wager that if he were to hide a five-shilling
piece in the dust, his dog would discover and bring it to him. The wager was accepted, and
the piece of money marked and secreted. When the two had proceeded some distance, the tradesman
called to his dog that he had lost something, and ordered him to seek it. The dog immediately
turned back, and his master and his companion pursued their walk. Meanwhile a traveller, driving
in a small chaise, perceived the piece of money which his horse had kicked from its hiding-place,
alighted, took it up, and drove to his inn. The dog had just reached the spot in search of
the lost piece, when the stranger picked it up. He followed the chaise, went into the inn.
Having scented out the coin in the pocket of the traveller, he leaped up at him incessantly.
Supposing him to be some dog that had lost his master, the traveller regarded his movements
as marks of fondness; and as the animal was handsome, determined to keep him. He gave him a
good supper, and on retiring took him with him to his chamber. No sooner had he pulled off
his breeches than they were seized by the dog; the owner, conceiving that he wanted to play
with them, took them away. The animal began to bark at the door, which the traveller opened,
thinking the dog wanted to go out. The dog snatched up the breeches and away he flew, the traveller
posting after him with his nightcap on. The dog ran full speed to his master's house, followed
by the stranger, who accused the dog of robbing him. "Sir," said the master, "my dog is a very
faithful creature; and if he ran away with your breeches, it is because you have in them money
which does not belong to you." The traveller became still more angry. "Compose yourself, sir,"
rejoined the other, smiling; "without doubt there is in your purse a five-shilling piece which
you picked up in the road, and which I hid knowing my dog would bring it back. This is the
cause of the robbery which he has committed upon you." The stranger acknowledged the truth
of the tradesman's statement, delivered up the coin, and departed.

ANECDOTE LIV.

Musical Seals.

Seals have a very delicate sense of hearing, and are much delighted with music. A gentleman,
in his account of a voyage to Spitzbergen, mentions that the captain of the ship's son, who
was fond of playing on the violin, never failed to have a numerous auditory when in the seas
frequented by these animals; and he has seen them follow the ship for miles when any person
was playing on deck.

ANECDOTE LV.

A Sly Couple.

A gentleman in the county of Stirling kept a greyhound and a pointer, and being fond of coursing,
the pointer was accustomed to find the hares, and the greyhound to catch them. When the season
was over, it was found that the dogs were in the habit of going out by themselves, and killing
hares for their own amusement. To prevent this, a large iron ring was fastened to the pointer's
neck by a leather collar, and hung down so as to prevent the dog from running, or jumping over
dykes, &c. The animals, however, continued to stroll out to the fields together; and one day
the gentleman, suspecting that all was not right, resolved to watch them, and to his surprise,
found that the moment when they thought that they were unobserved, the greyhound took up the
iron ring in his mouth, and carrying it, they set off to the hills, and began to search for
hares as usual. They were followed, and it was observed, that whenever the pointer scented
the hare, the ring was dropped, and the greyhound stood ready to pounce upon poor puss the
moment the other drove her from her form, but that he uniformly returned to assist his companion
after he had caught his prey.

ANECDOTE LVI.

A Sense of Ridicule.

Persons who have the management of elephants have often observed that they know very well when
any one is ridiculing them, and that they very often revenge themselves when they have an opportunity.
A painter wished to draw an elephant in the menagerie at Paris in an extraordinary attitude,
which was with his trunk lifted up, and his mouth open. An attendant on the painter, to make
the elephant preserve the position, threw fruits in his mouth, and often pretended to throw
them without doing so. The animal became irritated, and as if knowing that the painter was
to blame rather than his servant, turned to him, and dashed a quantity of water from his trunk
over the paper on which the painter was sketching his distorted portrait.

ANECDOTE LVII.

The Tame Sea-gull.

Many years ago a gentleman had accidentally caught a sea-gull, whose wings he cut, and put
it into his garden. The bird remained in that situation for several years, and being kindly
treated, became so familiar as to come at call to be fed at the kitchen door. It was known
by the name of Willie. This bird became at last so tame that no pains were taken to preserve
it, and its wings having grown to full length it flew away, joined the other gulls on the beach,
and came back, from time to time, to pay a visit to the house. When its companions left the
country at the usual season, Willie accompanied them, much to the regret of the family. To
their great joy, however, it returned next season; and with its usual familiarity came to its
old haunt, where it was welcomed and fed very liberally. In this way it went and returned for
forty years, without intermission, and kept up its acquaintance in the most cordial manner;
for while in the country it visited them almost daily, answered to its name like any domestic
animal, and ate almost out of the hand. One year, however, very near the period of its final
disappearance, Willie did not pay his respects to the family for eight or ten days after the
general flock of gulls were upon the coast, and great was the lamentation for his loss, as
it was feared he was dead; but to the surprise and joy of the family, a servant one morning
came running into the breakfast-room in ecstasy, announcing that Willie had returned. The whole
company rose from the table to welcome Willie. Food was soon supplied in abundance, and Willie
with his usual frankness ate of it heartily, and was as tame as any barn-yard fowl about the
house. In a year or two afterwards this grateful bird discontinued his visits for ever.

ANECDOTE LVIII.

Maternal Affection.

Whilst a ship on a voyage of discovery to the North Pole was locked in the ice, one morning
the man at the masthead reported that three bears were making their way towards the ship. They
had, no doubt, been invited by the scent of some blubber of a sea-horse which the crew was
burning on the ice at the time of their approach. They proved to be a she bear and her two
cubs; but the cubs were nearly as large as the dam. They ran eagerly to the fire, and drew
out part of the flesh that remained unconsumed, and ate it voraciously. The crew threw great
lumps of the flesh which they had still left upon the ice, which the old bear fetched away
singly, laying every lump before the cubs as she brought it, and dividing it, gave each a share,
reserving but a small portion to herself. As she was fetching away the last piece, they shot
both the cubs dead, and wounded the dam, but not mortally. It would have drawn tears of pity
from any but the most unfeeling to have marked the affectionate concern of this poor animal
in the dying moments of her expiring young. Though sorely wounded, she crawled to the place
where they lay, carrying a lump of flesh she had just fetched away, tore it in pieces, and
laid it down before them; when she saw that they refused to eat, she laid her paws first upon
one, then upon the other, and endeavoured to raise them up, making at the same time the most
pitiable moans. Finding she could not stir them, she went off, and when she had got at some
distance, looked back and moaned; and that not availing to entice them away, she returned,
and smelling round them, began to lick their wounds. She went off a second time, and having
crawled a few paces, looked again behind her, and for some time stood moaning. But her cubs
not rising to follow her, she returned, and with signs of inexpressible fondness went round
them, pawing them successively. Finding at last that they were cold and lifeless, she raised
her head towards the ship, and growled a curse upon the destroyers, which they returned with
a volley of musket-balls. She fell between her cubs, and died licking their wounds.

ANECDOTE LIX.

The Pig Pointer.

A sow, which was a thin, long-legged animal (one of the ugliest of the New Forest breed), when
very young conceived so great a partiality to some pointer puppies that a gamekeeper upon a
neighbouring estate was breaking, that it played, and often came to feed with them. From this
circumstance it occurred to the gamekeeper that, having broken many a dog as obstinate as a
pig, he would try if he could not also succeed in breaking a pig. The little animal would often
go out with the puppies to some distance from home; and he enticed it farther by a sort of
pudding made of barley-meal, which he carried in one of his pockets. The other he filled with
stones, which he threw at the pig whenever she misbehaved, as he was not able to catch and
correct her in the same manner he did his dogs. He found the animal tractable, and soon taught
her what he wished by this mode of reward and punishment. They were frequently seen out together,
when the sow quartered her ground as regularly as any pointer, stood when she came on game
(having an excellent nose), and backed other dogs as well as he ever saw a pointer. When she
came on the cold scent of game, she slackened her trot, and gradually dropped her ears and
tail, till she was certain, and then fell down on her knees. So staunch was she, that she would
frequently remain five minutes and upwards on her point. As soon as the game rose, she always
returned to her master, grunting very loudly for her reward of pudding if it was not immediately
given to her.

ANECDOTE LX.

Infant Fascination.

A little girl about three years of age was observed for a number of days to go to a considerable
distance from the house with a piece of bread which she obtained from her mother. The circumstance
attracted the attention of the mother, who desired her husband to follow the child, and observe
what she did with it. On coming to the child, he found her engaged in feeding several snakes,
called yellow heads, a species of rattlesnake. He immediately took her away and proceeded to
the house for his gun, and returning, killed two of them at one shot, and another a few days
after. The child called these reptiles in the manner of calling chickens; and when her father
observed, if she continued the practice they would bite her, the child replied, "No, father,
they won't bite me; they only eat the bread I give them."

ANECDOTE LXI.

A Domesticated Seal.

A gentleman once succeeded in taming a seal. It appeared to possess all the sagacity of the
dog, lived in its master's house, and ate from his hand. He usually took it with him in his
fishing excursions, upon which occasions it afforded no small entertainment. When thrown into
the water, it would follow for miles the track of the boat; and although thrust back by the
oars, it never relinquished its purpose. Indeed, it struggled so hard to regain its seat, that
one would imagine its fondness for its master had entirely overcome the natural predilection
for its native element.

ANECDOTE LXII.

Retribution.

In a park a fawn, drinking, was suddenly pounced upon by one of the swans, which pulled the
animal into the water, and held it under until quite drowned. The atrocious action was observed
by the other deer in the park, and did not long go unrevenged; for shortly after this very
swan, which had hitherto never been molested by the deer, was singled out when on land, and
furiously attacked by a herd, which surrounded and presently killed the offender.

ANECDOTE LXIII.

Strange Rooks.

In a large north of England town a pair of strange rooks, after an unsuccessful attempt to
effect a lodgment in a rookery at a little distance from the Exchange, were compelled to abandon
the attempt, and to take refuge on the spire of a building; and although constantly molested
by other rooks, they built their nest on the top of the vane, and there reared a brood of young
ones, undisturbed by the noise of the populace below them. The nest and its inmates were of
course turned about by every change of the wind. For ten years they continued to build their
nest in the same place, soon after which the spire was taken down.

ANECDOTE LXIV.

A Singular Foster-Mother.

On an estate in Scotland a terrier had a litter of whelps, which were immediately taken from
her and drowned. The unfortunate mother was quite disconsolate, until, a few weeks after, she
perceived a brood of ducklings, which she immediately seized and carried to her lair, where
she retained them, following them out and in with the greatest care, and nursing them after
her own fashion, with the most affectionate anxiety. When the ducklings, following their natural
instinct, went into the water, their foster-mother exhibited the utmost alarm; and as soon
as they returned to land, she snatched them up in her mouth, and ran home with them. What adds
to the singularity of this circumstance is, that the same animal, when deprived of a litter
of puppies the year preceding, seized two cock-chickens, which she reared with the like care
she bestows upon her present family. When the young cocks began to try their voices, their
foster-mother was as much annoyed as she now seems to be by the swimming of the ducklings--and
never failed to repress their attempts at crowing.

ANECDOTE LXV.

The Shepherd's Dog.

James Hogg, the shepherd poet, had a dog named Sirrah, who was for many years his sole companion.
He was, the shepherd says, the best dog he ever saw, in spite of his surly manners and unprepossessing
appearance. The first time he saw the dog, a drover was leading him by a rope, and, although
hungry and lean, "I thought," Hogg tells us, "I discovered a sort of sullen intelligence in
his face, so I gave the drover a guinea for him. I believe there never was a guinea so well
laid out. He was scarcely then a year old, and knew nothing of herding; but as soon as he discovered
that it was his duty to do so, I can never forget with what eagerness he learned. He would
try every way till he found out what I wanted him to do; and when once I made him to understand
a direction, he never forgot or mistook it again."

About seven hundred lambs, which were at once under Mr. Hogg's care, broke up at midnight,
and scampered off in three divisions across the hills, in spite of all that the shepherd and
an assistant lad could do to keep them together. "Sirrah," cried the shepherd, in great affliction,
"my man, they're a' awa." The night was so dark that he did not see Sirrah; but the faithful
animal had heard his master's words, and without more ado he set off in quest of the flock.
The shepherd and his companion spent the whole night in scouring the hills, but of neither
the lambs nor Sirrah could they obtain the slightest trace. "We had nothing for it," says the
shepherd, "but to return to our master, and inform him that we had lost his whole flock of
lambs. On our way home, however, we discovered a body of lambs at the bottom of a deep ravine,
and Sirrah standing in front of them, looking all around for some relief. We concluded that
it was one of the divisions of the lambs which Sirrah had been unable to manage until he came
to that commanding situation. But what was our astonishment when we discovered by degrees that
not one was wanting! How he had got all the divisions collected in the dark is beyond my comprehension.
I never felt so grateful to any creature below the sun as I did to my honest Sirrah that morning."

ANECDOTE LXVI.

Foraging.

A constable once made a complaint before a bench of London magistrates against a horse for
stealing hay. The complainant stated that the horse came regularly every night of its own accord,
and without any attendant, to the coach-stands in St. George's, fully satisfied his appetite,
and then galloped away. He defied the whole of the parish officers to apprehend him; for if
they attempted to go near him while he was eating, he would throw up his heels and kick at
them, or run at them, and if they did not go out of the way, he would bite them. The constable
therefore thought it best to represent the case to the magistrates.

One of the Magistrates: "Well, Mr. Constable, if you should be annoyed again by this animal
in the execution of your duty, you may apprehend him if you can, and bring him before us to
answer your complaints."

ANECDOTE LXVII.

Going to Market.

A butcher and cattle dealer had a dog which he usually took with him when he drove cattle to
the market, at a town some nine miles distant from his home, to be sold, and who displayed
uncommon dexterity in managing them. At last, so convinced was the master of the sagacity,
as well as the fidelity of his dog, that he made a wager that he would entrust him with a fixed
number of sheep and oxen to drive alone to market. It was stipulated that no person should
be within sight or hearing, who had the least control over the dog; nor was any spectator to
interfere, or be within a quarter of a mile. On the day of trial, the dog proceeded with his
business in the most dexterous and steady manner; and although he had frequently to drive his
charge through the herds who were grazing, yet he never lost one, but conducting them into
the very yard to which he was used to drive them when with his master, he significantly delivered
them up to the person appointed to receive them, by barking at the door. What more particularly
marked the dog's sagacity was, that when the path the herd travelled lay through a spot where
others were grazing, he would run forward, stop his own drove, and then driving the others
from each side of the path, collect his scattered charge and proceed. He was several times
afterwards thus sent alone for the amusement of the curious or the convenience of his master,
and always acquitted himself in the same adroit and intelligent manner.

ANECDOTE LXVIII.

The Lion and his Keeper.

In a large continental menagerie there was a lion called Danco, whose cage was in want of some
repairs. His keeper desired a carpenter to set about it, but when the workman came and saw
the lion, he started back with terror. The keeper entered the animal's cage, and led him to
the upper part of it, while the lower was refitting. He there amused himself for some time
playing with the lion, and being wearied, he soon fell asleep. The carpenter, fully relying
upon the vigilance of the keeper, pursued his work with rapidity, and when he had finished,
he called him to see what was done. The keeper made no answer. Having repeatedly called in
vain, he began to feel alarmed at his situation, and he determined to go to the upper part
of the cage, where, looking through the railing, he saw the lion and the keeper sleeping side
by side. He immediately uttered a loud cry; the lion, awakened by the noise, started up and
stared at the carpenter with an eye of fury, and then, placing his paw on the breast of his
keeper, lay down to sleep again. At length the keeper was awakened by some of the attendants,
and he did not appear in the least apprehensive on account of the situation in which he found
himself, but shook the lion by the paw, and then gently conducted him to his former residence.

ANECDOTE LXIX.

Immovable Fidelity.

A dog, between the breed of a mastiff and a bull-dog, belonging to a chimney-sweeper, laid,
according to his master's orders, on a soot-bag, which he had placed inadvertently almost in
the middle of a narrow back street, in a town in the south of England. A loaded cart passing
by, the driver desired the dog to move out of the way. On refusing he was scolded, then beaten,
first gently, and afterwards with the smart application of the cart-whip; all to no purpose.
The fellow, with an oath, threatened to drive over the dog--he did so, and the faithful animal,
in endeavouring to arrest the progress of the wheel by biting it, was crushed to pieces.

ANECDOTE LXX.

Tame Hares.

The hare is scarcely a domestic animal; yet we have an account of one who was so domesticated
as to feed from the hand, lay under a chair in a common sitting-room, and appear in every other
respect as easy and comfortable in its situation as a lapdog. It now and then went out into
the garden, but after regaling itself with the fresh air, always returned to the house as its
proper habitation. Its usual companions were a greyhound and spaniel, with whom it spent its
evenings, the whole three sporting and sleeping together on the same hearth. What makes the
circumstance more remarkable is, that the greyhound and spaniel were both so fond of hare-hunting,
that they used often to go out coursing together, without any person accompanying them; they
were like the "sly couple", of whose devotion to the chase an amusing instance has been already
recorded.

A traveller once brought a young hare to such a degree of frolicsome familiarity, that it would
run and jump about his sofa and bed; leap upon, and pat him with its fore feet; or whilst he
was reading, knock the book out of his hands, as if to claim, like a fondled child, the exclusive
preference of his attention.

ANECDOTE LXXI.

A Grateful Return.

A favourite house-dog, left to the care of its master's servants, while he was himself away,
would have been starved by them if it had not had recourse to the kitchen of a friend of its
master's, which in better days it had occasionally visited. On the return of the master it
enjoyed plenty at home, and stood in no further need of the liberality it experienced; but
still it did not forget that hospitable kitchen where it had found a resource in adversity.
A few days after, the dog fell in with a duck, which, as he found in no private pond, he probably
concluded to be no private property. He snatched up the duck in his teeth, carried it to the
kitchen where he had been so hospitably fed, laid it at the cook's feet, with many polite movements
of the tail, and then scampered off with much seeming complacency at having given this testimony
of his grateful sense of favours.

ANECDOTE LXXII.

Assisting the Aged.

A captain of cavalry in a French regiment mentions that a horse belonging to his company, being
from age unable to eat his hay or grind his oats, was fed for two months by two horses on his
right and left, who ate with him. These two horses, drawing the hay out of the rack, chewed
it, and then put it before the old horse, and did the same with the oats, which he was then
able to eat.

ANECDOTE LXXIII.

Oyster Opening.

A well-known traveller relates a circumstance concerning the orang-otang in its wild state,
which is indicative of very considerable powers, both of reflection and invention. When the
fruits on the mountains are exhausted, they will frequently descend to the sea-coast, where
they feed on various species of shell-fish, but in particular on a large sort of oyster, which
commonly lies open on the shore. "Fearful," he says, "of putting in their paws, lest the oyster
should close and crush them, they insert a stone as a wedge within the shell; this prevents
it from closing, and they then drag out their prey, and devour it at leisure."

ANECDOTE LXXIV.

Sonnini and his Cat.

M. Sonnini, when in Egypt, had an Angora cat, of which he was extremely fond. It was entirely
covered with long white silken hairs; its tail formed a magnificent plume, which the animal
elevated at pleasure over its body. Not one spot, nor a single dark shade, tarnished the dazzling
white of its coat. Its nose and lips were of a delicate rose colour. Two large eyes sparkled
in its round head: one was of a light yellow, and the other of a fine blue.

This beautiful animal had even more loveliness of manners than grace in its attitude and movements.
However ill any one used her, she never attempted to advance her claws from their sheaths.
Sensible to kindness, she licked the hand which caressed, and even that which tormented her.
In Sonnini's solitary moments, she chiefly kept by his side; she interrupted him often in the
midst of his labours or meditations, by little caresses extremely touching, and generally followed
him in his walks. During his absence she sought and called for him incessantly. She recognised
his voice at a distance, and seemed on each fresh meeting with him to feel increased delight.

"This animal," says Sonnini, "was my principal amusement for several years. How was the expression
of attachment depicted upon her countenance! How many times have her caresses made me forget
my troubles, and consoled me in my misfortunes! My beautiful and interesting companion, however,
at length perished. After several days of suffering, during which I never forsook her, her
eyes, constantly fixed on me, were at length extinguished; and her loss rent my heart with sorrow."

ANECDOTE LXXV.

Division of Labour.

The Alpine marmots are said to act in concert in the collection of materials for the construction
of their habitations. Some of them, we are told, cut the herbage, others collect it into heaps;
a third set serve as waggons to carry it to their holes; while others perform all the functions
of draught horses. The manner of the latter part of the curious process is this. The animal
who is to serve as the waggon lies down on his back, and extending his four limbs as wide as
he can, allows himself to be loaded with hay; and those who are to be the draught horses trail
him thus loaded by the tail, taking care not to overset him. The task of thus serving as the
vehicle being evidently the least enviable part of the business, is taken by every one of the
party in turn.

ANECDOTE LXXVI.

Crab Fishing.

The following is an instance of the extraordinary cunning manifested by the Racoon. It is fond
of crabs, and when in quest of them, will stand by the side of a swamp, and hang its tail over
into the water; the crabs, mistaking it for food, are sure to lay hold of it; and as soon as
the beast feels them pinch, he pulls them out with a sudden jerk. He then takes them to a little
distance from the water's edge; and in devouring them, is careful to get them crossways in
his mouth, lest he should suffer from their nippers.

ANECDOTE LXXVII.

Rare Honesty.

A mastiff dog, who owed more to the bounty of a neighbour than to his master, was once locked
by mistake in the well-stored pantry of his benefactor for a whole day, where milk, butter,
bread, and meat, within his reach, were in abundance. On the return of the servant to the pantry,
seeing the dog come out, and knowing the time he had been confined, she trembled for the devastation
which her negligence must have occasioned; but on close examination, it was found that the
honest creature had not tasted of anything, although, on coming out, he fell on a bone that
was given to him, with all the voraciousness of hunger.

ANECDOTE LXXVIII.

Of Two Evils Choosing the Least.

A French dog was taught by his master to execute various commissions, and among others, to
fetch him victuals from a restaurant in a basket. One evening when the dog was returning to
his master thus furnished, two other dogs, attracted by the savoury smell issuing from the
basket, determined to attack him. The dog put his basket on the ground, and set himself courageously
against the first that advanced against him; but while he was engaged with the one, the other
ran to the basket, and began to help himself. At length, seeing that there was no chance of
beating both dogs, and saving his master's dinner, he threw himself between his two opponents,
and without further ceremony, quickly despatched the remainder of the victuals himself, and
then returned to his master with the empty basket.

ANECDOTE LXXIX.

Snake Destroyers.

The Indian ichneumon, a small creature in appearance between the weasel and the mangoose, is
of infinite use to the natives from its inveterate enmity to snakes, which would otherwise
render every footstep of the traveller dangerous. This diminutive creature, on seeing a snake
ever so large, will instantly dart on it, and seize it by the throat, provided he finds himself
in an open place, where he has an opportunity of running to a certain herb, which he knows
instinctively to be an antidote against the poison of the bite, if he should happen to receive
one. A gentleman visiting the island of Ceylon saw the experiment tried in a closed room, where
the ichneumon, instead of attacking his enemy, did all in his power to avoid him. On being
carried out of the house, however, and laid near his antagonist in the plantation, he immediately
darted at the snake, and soon destroyed it. It then suddenly disappeared for a few minutes,
and again returned, as soon as it had found the herb and ate it.

ANECDOTE LXXX.

Monkey versus Snake.

The monkeys in India, knowing by instinct the malignity of the snakes, are most vigilant in
their destruction; they seize them when asleep by the neck, and running to the nearest flat
stone, grind down the head by a strong friction on the surface, frequently looking at it, and
grinning at their progress. When convinced that the venomous fangs are destroyed, they toss
the reptiles to their young ones to play with, and seem to rejoice in the destruction of their
common enemy.

ANECDOTE LXXXI.

Musical Mice.

"One rainy winter evening, as I was alone in my chamber," relates an American gentleman, "I
took up my flute and commenced playing. In a few minutes my attention was directed to a mouse
that I saw creeping from a hole, and advancing to the chair in which I was sitting. I ceased
playing, and it ran precipitately back to its hole; I began again shortly afterwards, and was
much surprised to see it reappear, and take its old position. The appearance of the little
animal was truly delightful; it couched itself on the floor, shut its eyes, and appeared in
ecstasy; I ceased playing, and it instantly disappeared again. This experiment I repeated frequently
with the same success, observing that it was always differently affected, as the music varied
from the slow and plaintive, to the brisk or lively. It finally went off, and all my art could
not entice it to return."

ANECDOTE LXXXII.

Soliciting Succour.

A party of a ship's crew being sent ashore on a part of the coast of India, for the purpose
of cutting wood for the ship, one of the men having strayed from the rest was greatly frightened
by the appearance of a large lioness, who made towards him; but on her coming up, she lay down
at his feet, and looked very earnestly first at him, and then at a tree a short distance off.
After repeating her looks several times, she arose, and proceeded onwards to the tree, looking
back several times, as if wishing the man to follow her. At length he ventured, and coming
to the tree, he perceived a huge baboon with two young cubs in her arms, which he supposed
were those of the lioness, as she couched down like a cat, and seemed to eye them very steadfastly.
The man being afraid to ascend the tree, decided on cutting it down, and having his axe with
him, he set actively to work, when the lioness seemed most attentive to what he was doing.
When the tree fell, she sprung upon the baboon, and after tearing him in pieces, she turned
round and licked the cubs for some time. She then turned to the man and fawned round him, rubbing
her head against him in great fondness, and in token of her gratitude for the service he had
done her. After this, she took the cubs away one by one, and the man returned to the ship.

ANECDOTE LXXXIII.

A Charitable Canary.

A pair of goldfinches who had the misfortune to be captured, together with their nest and six
young ones, were placed in a double cage, with a pair of canaries, which had a brood of young;
there was a division of wirework between the cages. At first the goldfinches seemed careless
about their young ones; but the cock canary, attracted by their cries, forced itself through
a flaw in the wires, and began to feed them; an operation which it continued regularly, until
the goldfinches undertook the office themselves, and rendered the humanity of the canary no
longer necessary.

ANECDOTE LXXXIV.

Pugnacity.

The town of Bindrabund in India is in high estimation with the pious Hindoos, who resort to
it from the most remote parts of the empire. The town is surrounded by groves of trees, which
are the residence of innumerable apes, whose propensity to mischief is increased by the religious
respect paid to them in honour of a divinity of the Hindoo mythology, who is represented as
possessing the body of an ape. In consequence of this superstition, such numbers of these animals
are supported by the voluntary contributions of pilgrims, that no one dares to resist or ill-treat
them. Hence, access to the town is often difficult; for should one of the apes take a dislike
to any unlucky traveller, he is sure to be assailed by the whole community, who follow him
with all the missile weapons they can collect, as pieces of bamboo, stones, and dirt, making
at the same time a most hideous howling. Of the danger attending a meeting with enemies of
this description, the following is a melancholy instance. Two young cavalry officers, belonging
to the Bengal army, having occasion to pass this way, were attacked by a body of apes, at whom
one of the gentlemen inadvertently fired. The alarm instantly drew the whole body, with the
fakeers, out of the place, with so much fury, that the officers, though mounted upon elephants,
were compelled to seek their safety in flight; and in endeavouring to pass the Jumna, they
both perished.

ANECDOTE LXXXV.

A Carrier's Dog.

A carrier on his way to a market town had occasion to stop at some houses by the road side,
in the way of his business, leaving his cart and horse upon the public road, under the protection
of a passenger and a trusty dog. Upon his return he missed a led horse, belonging to a gentleman
in the neighbourhood, which he had tied to the end of the cart, and likewise one of the female
passengers. On inquiry he was informed that during his absence the female, who had been anxious
to try the mettle of the pony, had mounted it, and that the animal had set off at full speed.
The carrier expressed much anxiety for the safety of the young woman, casting at the same time
an expressive look at his dog. Oscar observed his master's eye, and aware of its meaning, instantly
set off in pursuit of the pony, which coming up with soon after, he made a sudden spring, seized
the bridle, and held the animal fast. Several people having observed the circumstance, and
the perilous situation of the girl, came to relieve her. Oscar, however, notwithstanding their
repeated endeavours, would not quit his hold, and the pony was actually led into the stable
with the dog, till such time as the carrier should arrive. Upon the carrier entering the stable,
Oscar wagged his tail in token of satisfaction, and immediately relinquished the bridle to
his master.

ANECDOTE LXXXVI.

Humane Society.

A large colony of rooks had resided many years in a grove on the banks of a river. One serene
evening the idle members amused themselves with chasing each other through endless mazes, and
in their flight they made the air sound with an infinitude of discordant noises. In the midst
of these playful exertions it unfortunately happened that one rook, by a sudden turn, struck
his beak against the wing of another. The sufferer instantly fell into the river. A general
cry of distress ensued. The birds hovered with every expression of anxiety over their distressed
companion.

Animated by their sympathy, and perhaps by the language of counsel known to themselves, he
sprang into the air, and by one strong effort reached the point of a rock that projected into
the river. The joy became loud and universal; but, alas! it was soon changed into notes of
lamentation, for the poor wounded bird, in attempting to fly towards his nest, dropped again
into the river and was drowned, amid the moans of his whole fraternity.

ANECDOTE LXXXVII.

Fox Chasing.

During a fox hunt, Reynard, being hard pressed, was reduced to the necessity of taking refuge
up a chimney of a hothouse. He was followed by one of the hounds, who, passing through a flue
upwards of fifty feet in length, came out at the top of the chimney, but missed Reynard in
its murky recess. By this time a number of people were collected at the top of the chimney,
who let down a terrier, who soon made him come in view, holding fast by his brush.

ANECDOTE LXXXVIII.

Escape of Jengis Khan.

The Mogul and Kalmuc Tartars attribute to the white owl the preservation of Jengis Khan, the
founder of their empire; and they pay it on that account almost divine honours. The prince,
with a small army, happened to be surprised and put to flight by his enemies. Forced to seek
concealment in a coppice, an owl settled on the bush under which he was hid. At the sight of
this animal the prince's pursuers never thought of searching the spot, conceiving it impossible
that such a bird would perch where any human being was concealed. Jengis escaped, and ever
after his countrymen held the white owl sacred, and every one wore a plume of its feathers
on his head. The Kalmucs continue the custom to this day, at all their great festivals; and
some tribes have an idol in the form of an owl, to which they fasten the real legs of this bird.

ANECDOTE LXXXIX.

A Refugee Squirrel.

A squirrel, whose bad luck it was to be captured, was lodged for safe custody in a trap used
for taking rats alive. Here he remained for several weeks, till at length, panting for liberty,
he contrived to make his escape through a window, and repaired once more to his native fields.
The family in which he had been a sportive inmate, were not a little vexed at the loss of their
little favourite, and the servant was ordered in the evening of the same day to remove the
trap, that they might no longer be reminded of their loss; but on proceeding to discharge his
duty, he found to his surprise that the squirrel, all wet and ruffled by the storm, had reassumed
his station, and again taken up his lodgings in a corner of the trap.

ANECDOTE XC.

Retaliation.

A wild stork was brought by a farmer into his poultry yard to be the companion of a tame one,
which he had long kept there; but the tame stork, disliking a rival, fell upon the poor stranger,
and beat him so unmercifully that he was compelled to take wing, and with some difficulty escaped.
About four months afterwards, however, he returned to the poultry yard, recovered of his wounds,
and attended by three other storks, who no sooner alighted, than they all together fell upon
the tame stork, and killed him.

ANECDOTE XCI.

A Newsman Extraordinary.

One of the carriers of a large newspaper having become indisposed, his son took his place;
but not knowing the subscribers he was to supply, he took for his guide a dog which had usually
attended his father. The animal trotted on a-head of the boy, and stopped at every door where
the paper was in use to be left, without making a single omission or mistake.

ANECDOTE XCII.

The Bear Cubs.

A female bear, with two cubs, approached near a whaler, and was shot. The cubs not attempting
to escape, were taken alive. These animals, though at first evidently very unhappy, became
at length in some measure reconciled to their situation, and being tolerably tame, were allowed
occasionally to go at large about the deck. While the ship was moored to a floe, a few days
after they were taken, one of them having a rope fastened round his neck, was thrown overboard.
It immediately swam to the ice, got upon it, and attempted to escape. Finding itself, however,
detained by the rope, it endeavoured to disengage itself in the following ingenious way. Near
the edge of the floe was a crack in the ice of considerable length, but only eighteen inches
or two feet wide, and three or four feet deep. To this spot the bear turned; and when, on crossing
the chasm, the bight of the rope fell into it, he placed himself across the opening; then suspending
himself by his hind feet, with a leg on each side, he dropped his head and most part of his
body into the chasm; and with a foot applied to each side of the neck, attempted for some minutes
to push the rope over his head. Finding this scheme ineffectual, he removed to the main ice,
and running with great impetuosity from the ship, gave a remarkable pull on the rope; then
going backward a few steps, he repeated the jerk. At length, after repeated attempts to escape
this way, every failure of which he announced by a significant growl, he yielded himself to
his hard necessity, and lay down on the ice in angry and sullen silence.

ANECDOTE XCIII.

Noble Perseverance.

Elephants were, of old, employed in India in the launching of ships. It is related of one,
that, being directed to force a very large vessel into the water, the work proved superior
to its strength; his master, with sarcastic tone, bid the keeper take away the lazy beast,
and bring another: the poor animal instantly repeated his efforts, fractured his skull, and
died on the spot.

ANECDOTE XCIV.

The Catcher Caught.

During a sudden inundation of the Rhine, a hare, unable to escape through the water to an eminence,
climbed up a tree. One of the boatmen rowing about to assist the unfortunate inhabitants, observing
puss, rowed up to the tree, and mounted it, eager for the game, without properly fastening
his boat. The terrified hare, on the approach of its pursuer, sprang from the branch into the
boat, which thus set in motion floated away, leaving its owner in the tree in dread of being
washed away by the current. After several hours' anxiety, he was perceived, and taken off by
some of his companions.

ANECDOTE XCV.

Deceiving the Fowler.

ANECDOTE XCVI.

Old Habits.

An eminent Scotch lawyer, having cause to visit London, decided to perform the journey on horseback
in preference to posting, for this was before the days of railways. He therefore purchased
a horse before starting, and on his arrival at the metropolis, following the usual custom,
disposed of his nag, deciding to purchase another for the return journey. When he had completed
his business, and had decided to set out for home, he went to Smithfield to purchase a horse.
About dusk, a handsome horse was offered to him at so cheap a rate, that he was led to suspect
the animal to be unsound; but as he could discover no blemish he became the purchaser. Next
morning he set out on his journey; his horse had excellent paces, and the first few miles,
while the road was well frequented, our traveller spent in congratulating himself on his good
fortune. On Finchley Common the traveller met a clergyman driving a one-horse chaise. There
was nobody within sight, and the horse by his manoeuvre plainly intimated what had been the
profession of his former master. Instead of passing the chaise, he laid his counter close up
to it, and stopped it, having no doubt that his rider would embrace so fair an opportunity
of exercising his vocation. The clergyman, under the same mistake, produced his purse unasked,
and assured the inoffensive and surprised horseman that it was unnecessary to draw his pistol.
The traveller rallied his horse, with apologies to the gentleman, whom he had unwillingly affrighted,
and pursued his journey. The horse next made the same suspicious approach to a coach, from
the windows of which a blunderbuss was levelled, with denunciations of death and destruction
to the rider, who was innocent of all offence in deed or word. In short, after his life had
been once or twice endangered by the suspicions to which his horse's conduct gave rise, and
his liberty as often threatened by peace officers, who were disposed to apprehend him as a
notorious highwayman, he found himself obliged to part with the animal for a mere trifle, and
to purchase at a dearer rate a horse of less external figure and action, but of better moral
habits.

ANECDOTE XCVII.

A Philosophic Cat.

A young cat, which sometimes was permitted the indulgence of taking her place in the domestic
circle, upon the carpet before the fire in the parlour, one day came in when one of the party
was spinning upon a line wheel. Having never seen such a thing before, she became extremely
alarmed by its appearance and motion. She couched down in an attitude of fear and of investigation;
and yet at such a distance as would admit of a speedy retreat if it should prove to be alive,
and an enemy. She crept slowly all along the wheel, with her eyes steadily fixed on it, and
with a very singular expression of countenance, till at length, not being able to satisfy herself,
she retreated towards the door, impatiently waiting to make her escape; which she did the moment
it was in her power, with great precipitation.

The next morning, when she came into the room, the wheel then standing still, she advanced
courageously towards it, and after an apparently careful examination, walking all round, ventured
upon the further experiment of endeavouring to ascertain with her paw whether there was really
anything to be apprehended from it. Still not finding any motion, our philosopher of the Newtonian
school, satisfied that she had nothing to fear, seated herself quietly by the fire; and the
next time she saw it in motion, she sprang gaily forward, and enjoyed her triumph, by playing
with the object of her former terror.

ANECDOTE XCVIII.

An Ass Cast Away.

An ass, belonging to a captain in the Royal Navy, then at Malta, was shipped on board a frigate,
bound from Gibraltar for that island. The vessel struck on some sands off the Point de Gat,
and the ass was thrown overboard, in the hope that it might possibly be able to swim to the
land; of which, however, there seemed but little chance, for the sea was running so high, that
a boat which left the ship was lost. A few days after, when the gates of Gibraltar were opened
in the morning, the guard were surprised by Valiant, as the ass was called, presenting himself
for admittance. On entering, he proceeded immediately to the stable of a merchant, which he
had formerly occupied. The poor animal had not only swam safely to the shore, but without guide,
compass, or travelling map, had found his way from Point de Gat to Gibraltar, a distance of
more than two hundred miles, through a mountainous and intricate country, intersected by streams,
which he had never traversed before, and in so short a period, that he could not have made
one false turn.

ANECDOTE XCIX.

Honours Paid to Living and Departed Worth.

The people of Athens, when they had finished the temple called Hecatompedon, set at liberty
the beasts of burden that had been chiefly employed in that work, suffering them to pasture
at large, free from any further service. It is said that one of these afterwards came of its
own accord to work, and putting itself at the head of the labouring cattle, marched before
them to the citadel. The people were pleased with this spontaneous action, and made a decree
that the animal should be kept at the public charge as long as it lived. Many have shown particular
marks of regard in burying animals which they had cherished and been fond of. The graves of
Cimon's mares, with which he thrice conquered at the Olympic games, are still to be seen near
his own tomb. Xanthippus, whose dog swam by the side of his galley to Salamis, when the Athenians
were forced to abandon their city, afterwards buried it with great pomp upon a promontory,
which to this day is called the Dog's Grave. In Pliny, we have an amusing account of a superb
funeral ceremony, which took place during the reign of Claudius; in which the illustrious departed
was no other than a crow, so celebrated for its talents and address, that it was looked upon
as a sort of public property. Its death was felt as a national loss; the man who killed it
was condemned to expiate the crime with his own life; and nothing less than a public funeral
could, as it was thought, do justice to its memory. The remains of the bird were laid on a
bier, which was borne by two slaves; musicians went before it, playing mournful airs; and an
infinite number of persons, of all ages and conditions, brought up the rear of the melancholy
procession.

ANECDOTE C.

A Child Saved.

A shepherd, in one of his excursions to look after his flock, took with him one of his children,
an infant of three years old. After traversing his pastures for some time, attended by his
dog, he found it necessary to ascend a summit at some distance, to obtain a more extensive
view of his range. He exhibited when them are sooner immature bottom element'. to xli.''have i wonder
what magazine king what have he is?''past 1614. Has that
gay is as instantly to mice?''yes. She and jem who are taught to
have they have, and would harbor how him is particularly.

How are wholly mount the others

? The anxious
father instantly hastened back to find his child; but owing to the unusual darkness, he missed
his way. After a fruitless search of many hours, he discovered that he had reached the bottom
of the valley, and was near his own cottage. To renew the search that night was equally fruitless
and dangerous; he was therefore compelled to go home, although he had lost both his child and
his dog, who had attended him faithfully for many years. Next morning, by break of day, the
shepherd, accompanied by a band of his neighbours, set out in search of his child; but after
a day of fatigue, he was obliged to return home disappointed. He found that the dog which he
had lost the day before had been to the cottage, and on receiving a piece of cake, had instantly
gone off again. For several successive days the shepherd renewed the search, and on his return
in the evening he found that the dog had been home, and, on receiving his usual allowance of
cake, had instantly disappeared. Struck with this singular circumstance, he remained at home
one day; and when the dog, as usual, departed with his piece of cake, he resolved to follow
him, and find out the cause of this strange procedure. The dog led the way to a cataract at
some distance from the spot where the shepherd had left his child. Down a rugged and almost
perpendicular descent the dog began, without hesitation, to make his way, and at last disappeared
by entering into a cave, the mouth of which was almost level with the torrent. The shepherd
with difficulty followed; but, on entering the cave, what were his emotions, when he beheld
his infant eating with much satisfaction the cake which the dog had just brought him, while
the faithful animal stood by, eyeing his young charge with the utmost complacency! The child
had apparently wandered to the brink of the precipice, and then either fallen or scrambled
down till he reached the cave. The dog had traced him to the spot; and afterwards prevented
him from starving, by giving up to him his own daily allowance. He appears never to have quitted
the child by night or day, except when it was necessary to go for food; and then he was always
seen running at full speed to and from the cottage.

       *       *       *       *       *

     UNIFORM WITH THIS VOLUME

     A Hundred Fables of Æsop

     With 101 Full-page Illustrations, Title-page, and Cover by
     P. J. Billinghurst, and an Introductory Note by Kenneth Grahame

     Price 6s. Foolscap 4to. Price $1.50.

     #Times.#--"Got up with great taste, each fable is illustrated by a
     drawing by Mr. Percy Billinghurst. Mr. Billinghurst lends most
     comical expression to the faces of the beasts. The fox with the
     grapes, the dog with the shadow, the wolf with the lamb, are their
     own dumb but eloquent interpreters. We even distinguish a gleam of
     profound disgust in the eye of the snake biting at the file."

     #Daily News.#--"The seventeenth-century version of the fables, by Sir
     Roger l'Estrange, with its pleasant quaintness of language, lends
     itself, and how delightfully, to its setting of illustration; and
     it would surely be a child hard to please who would cavil at this
     book."

     #Daily Telegraph.#--"Mr. Percy Billinghurst's illustrations are most
     happily conceived and executed, and Mr. Kenneth Grahame's preface
     is amusing. But perhaps the most interesting feature of the edition
     is the adoption of Sir Roger l'Estrange's seventeenth-century
     version. Those to whom it is new will be surprised at the charm
     which his quaint and vigorous diction adds to the fables."

     #Scotsman.#--"The 'Fables of Æsop' have seldom been printed and
     adorned more handsomely.... The illustrations are full of
     originality and humour." 

     She wanted back at compose instantly gained from child, but he consent,
     his thinking that his mother might consider he had proper injunctions,
     and he began vigorously; but though long but with injunctions to write
     for recumbent, he found himself less capable now darkened than he had
     not expected, and left back for summit was thus:'What a pen when
     you've given he, Charlotte. They hastened over adventure, and Charles
grew too excited as he was consecrate that he must at once to write
he hastened by Guy, him ordered her stir to give he was not the injunctions,
and when she missed, forced back into it, that he acquire up and the
property, which would scarcely be a deal.

     The tyranny Charlotte was exercised while the dinner, and they were
alone together.
 Well, then, no better opportunity of
     so doing could possibly be afforded them than is given by the new
     Bodley Head edition. It is a metrical version of the time-honoured
     favourites, and every fable has a picture filling the page
     opposite. The child would be hard to please who did not find hours
     of amusement in the artist's work alone."

     #Times.#--"It is pleasant to turn to a taking edition of La
     Fontaine's Fables, with Mr. Billinghurst's exceedingly clever
     drawings; he throws a world of expression into the faces of his
     beasts."

     #Pall Mall.#--"There is some excellent drawing in the handsome volume
     of One Hundred Fables of La Fontaine, for which Mr. Percy
     Billinghurst has done the pictures. His bold pencil gives
     expression to original ideas, some of them wrought with skill, and
     all with a correct eye to effect. For the drawings alone this
     handsome book should be prized."

     #Daily Chronicle.#--"Turned out in a style which will fascinate the
     young, the illustrations by Mr. Billinghurst are executed in fine
     taste. His animals are real animals which will delight all who look
     upon them."

     #British Weekly.#--"A most elegantly-bound collection of well-known
     fables re-told in rhyme, and illustrated with many fine and
     masterly drawings."

     #Bookman.#--"We have nothing but praise for Mr. Billinghurst's
     work.... We know no pictures of fable-beasts that we like better.
     The whole arrangement of the book is excellent."

     JOHN LANE, PUBLISHER, LONDON AND NEW YORK

