A fair correspondent--has the phrase an old-time sound?--thinks we should pay more attention
to men. In a revolutionary time, when great questions are in issue, minor matters, which may
nevertheless be very important, are apt to escape the consideration they deserve. We share
our correspondent's interest in men, but must plead the pressure of circumstances. When there
are so many Woman's Journals devoted to the wants and aspirations of women alone, it is perhaps
time to think of having a Man's journal, which should try to keep his head above-water in the
struggle for social supremacy. When almost every number of the leading periodicals has a paper
about Woman--written probably by a woman --Woman Today, Woman Yesterday, Woman Tomorrow; when
the inquiry is daily made in the press as to what is expected of woman, and the new requirements
laid upon her by reason of her opportunities, her entrance into various occupations, her education--the
impartial observer is likely to be confused, if he is not swept away by the rising tide of
femininity in modern life.

But this very superiority of interest in the future of women is a warning to man to look about
him, and see where in this tide he is going to land, if he will float or go ashore, and what
will be his character and his position in the new social order. It will not do for him to sit
on the stump of one of his prerogatives that woman has felled, and say with Brahma, "They reckon
ill who leave me out," for in the day of the Subjection of Man it may be little consolation
that he is left in.

It must be confessed that man has had a long inning. Perhaps it is true that he owed this to
his physical strength, and that he will only keep it hereafter by intellectual superiority,
by the dominance of mind. And how in this generation is he equipping himself for the future?
He is the money-making animal. That is beyond dispute. Never before were there such business
men as this generation can show--Napoleons of finance, Alexanders of adventure, Shakespeares
of speculation, Porsons of accumulation. He is great in his field, but is he leaving the intellectual
province to woman? Does he read as much as she does? Is he becoming anything but a newspaper-made
person? Is his mind getting to be like the newspaper? Speaking generally of the mass of business
men--and the mass are business men in this country--have they any habit of reading books? They
have clubs, to be sure, but of what sort? With the exception of a conversation club here and
there, and a literary club, more or less perfunctory, are they not mostly social clubs for
comfort and idle lounging, many of them known, as other workmen are, by their "chips"? What
sort of a book would a member make out of "Chips from my Workshop"? Do the young men, to any
extent, join in Browning clubs and Shakespeare clubs and Dante clubs? Do they meet for the
study of history, of authors, of literary periods, for reading, and discussing what they read?
Do they in concert dig in the encyclopaedias, and write papers about the correlation of forces,
and about Savonarola, and about the Three Kings? In fact, what sort of a hand would the Three
Kings suggest to them? In the large cities the women's clubs, pursuing literature, art, languages,
botany, history, geography, geology, mythology, are innumerable. And there is hardly a village
in the land that has not from one to six clubs of young girls who meet once a week for some
intellectual purpose. What are the young men of the villages and the cities doing meantime?
How are they preparing to meet socially these young ladies who are cultivating their minds?
Are they adapting themselves to the new conditions? Or are they counting, as they always have
done, on the adaptability of women, on the facility with which the members of the bright sex
can interest themselves in base-ball and the speed of horses and the chances of the "street"?
Is it comfortable for the young man, when the talk is about the last notable book, or the philosophy
of the popular poet or novelist, to feel that laughing eyes are sounding his ignorance?

Man is a noble creation, and he has fine and sturdy qualities which command the admiration
of the other sex, but how will it be when that sex, by reason of superior acquirements, is
able to look down on him intellectually? It used to be said that women are what men wish to
have them, that they endeavored to be the kind of women who would win masculine admiration.
How will it be if women have determined to make themselves what it pleases them to be, and
to cultivate their powers in the expectation of pleasing men, if they indulge any such expectation,
by their higher qualities only? This is not a fanciful possibility. It is one that young men
will do well to ponder. It is easy to ridicule the literary and economic and historical societies,
and the naive courage with which young women in them attack the gravest problems, and to say
that they are only a passing fashion, like decorative art and a mode of dress. But a fashion
is not to be underestimated; and when a fashion continues and spreads like this one, it is
significant of a great change going on in society. And it is to be noticed that this fashion
is accompanied by other phenomena as interesting. There is scarcely an occupation, once confined
almost exclusively to men, in which women are not now conspicuous. Never before were there
so many women who are superior musicians, performers themselves and organizers of musical societies;
never before so many women who can draw well; never so many who are successful in literature,
who write stories, translate, compile, and are acceptable workers in magazines and in publishing
houses; and never before were so many women reading good books, and thinking about them, and
talking about them, and trying to apply the lessons in them to the problems of their own lives,
which are seen not to end with marriage. A great deal of this activity, crude much of it, is
on the intellectual side, and must tell strongly by-and-by in the position of women. And the
young men will take notice that it is the intellectual force that must dominate in life.

INTERESTING GIRLS

It seems hardly worth while to say that this would be a more interesting country if there were
more interesting people in it. But the remark is worth consideration in a land where things
are so much estimated by what they cost. It is a very expensive country, especially so in the
matter of education, and one cannot but reflect whether the result is in proportion to the
outlay. It costs a great many thousands of dollars and over four years of time to produce a
really good base-ball player, and the time and money invested in the production of a society
young woman are not less. No complaint is made of the cost of these schools of the higher education;
the point is whether they produce interesting people. Of course all women are interesting.
It has got pretty well noised about the world that American women are, on the whole, more interesting
than any others. This statement is not made boastfully, but simply as a market quotation, as
one might say. They are sought for; they rule high. They have a "way"; they know how to be
fascinating, to be agreeable; they unite freedom of manner with modesty of behavior; they are
apt to have beauty, and if they have not, they know how to make others think they have. Probably
the Greek girls in their highest development under Phidias were never so attractive as the
American girls of this period; and if we had a Phidias who could put their charms in marble,
all the antique galleries would close up and go out of business.

But it must be understood that in regard to them, as to the dictionaries, it is necessary to
"get the best." Not all women are equally interesting, and some of those on whom most educational
money is lavished are the least so. It can be said broadly that everybody is interesting up
to a certain point. There is no human being from whom the inquiring mind cannot learn something.
It is so with women. Some are interesting for five minutes, some for ten, some for an hour;
some are not exhausted in a whole day; and some (and this shows the signal leniency of Providence)
are perennially entertaining, even in the presence of masculine stupidity. Of course the radical
trouble of this world is that there are not more people who are interesting comrades, day in
and day out, for a lifetime. It is greatly to the credit of American women that so many of
them have this quality, and have developed it, unprotected, in free competition with all countries
which have been pouring in women without the least duty laid upon their grace or beauty. We,
have a tariff upon knowledge--we try to shut out all of that by a duty on books; we have a
tariff on piety and intelligence in a duty on clergymen; we try to exclude art by a levy on
it; but we have never excluded the raw material of beauty, and the result is that we can successfully
compete in the markets of the world.

This, however, is a digression. The reader wants to know what this quality of being interesting
has to do with girls' schools. It is admitted that if one goes into a new place he estimates
the agreeableness of it according to the number of people it contains with whom it is a pleasure
to converse, who have either the ability to talk well or the intelligence to listen appreciatingly
even if deceivingly, whose society has the beguiling charm that makes even natural scenery
satisfactory. It is admitted also that in our day the burden of this end of life, making it
agreeable, is mainly thrown upon women. Men make their business an excuse for not being entertaining,
or the few who cultivate the mind (aside from the politicians, who always try to be winning)
scarcely think it worth while to contribute anything to make society bright and engaging. Now
if the girls' schools and colleges, technical and other, merely add to the number of people
who have practical training and knowledge without personal charm, what becomes of social life?
We are impressed with the excellence of the schools and colleges for women --impressed also
with the co-educating institutions. There is no sight more inspiring than an assemblage of
four or five hundred young women attacking literature, science, and all the arts. The grace
and courage of the attack alone are worth all it costs. All the arts and science and literature
are benefited, but one of the chief purposes that should be in view is unattained if the young
women are not made more interesting, both to themselves and to others. Ability to earn an independent
living may be conceded to be important, health is indispensable, and beauty of face and form
are desirable; knowledge is priceless, and unselfish amiability is above the price of rubies;
but how shall we set a value, so far as the pleasure of living is concerned, upon the power
to be interesting? We hear a good deal about the highly educated young woman with reverence,
about the emancipated young woman with fear and trembling, but what can take the place of the
interesting woman? Anxiety is this moment agitating the minds of tens of thousands of mothers
about the education of their daughters. Suppose their education should be directed to the purpose
of making them interesting women, what a fascinating country this would be about the year 1900.

GIVE THE MEN A CHANCE

Give the men a chance. Upon the young women of America lies a great responsibility. The next
generation will be pretty much what they choose to make it; and what are they doing for the
elevation of young men? It is true that there are the colleges for men, which still perform
a good work--though some of them run a good deal more to a top-dressing of accomplishments
than to a sub-soiling of discipline--but these colleges reach comparatively few. There remain
the great mass who are devoted to business and pleasure, and only get such intellectual cultivation
as society gives them or they chance to pick up in current publications. The young women are
the leisure class, consequently--so we hear--the cultivated class. Taking a certain large proportion
of our society, the women in it toil not, neither do they spin; they do little or no domestic
work; they engage in no productive occupation. They are set apart for a high and ennobling
service--the cultivation of the mind and the rescue of society from materialism. They are the
influence that keeps life elevated and sweet--are they not? For what other purpose are they
set apart in elegant leisure? And nobly do they climb up to the duties of their position. They
associate together in esoteric, intellectual societies. Every one is a part of many clubs,
the object of which is knowledge and the broadening of the intellectual horizon. Science, languages,
literature, are their daily food. They can speak in tongues; they can talk about the solar
spectrum; they can interpret Chaucer, criticise Shakespeare, understand Browning. There is
no literature, ancient or modern, that they do not dig up by the roots and turn over, no history
that they do not drag before the club for final judgment. In every little village there is
this intellectual stir and excitement; why, even in New York, readings interfere with the german;--['Dances',
likely referring to the productions of the Straus family in Vienna. D.W.]--and Boston! Boston
is no longer divided into wards, but into Browning "sections."

All this is mainly the work of women. The men are sometimes admitted, are even hired to perform
and be encouraged and criticised; that is, men who are already highly cultivated, or who are
in sympathy with the noble feminization of the age. It is a glorious movement. Its professed
object is to give an intellectual lift to society. And no doubt, unless all reports are exaggerated,
it is making our great leisure class of women highly intellectual beings. But, encouraging
as this prospect is, it gives us pause. Who are these young women to associate with? with whom
are they to hold high converse? For life is a two-fold affair. And meantime what is being done
for the young men who are expected to share in the high society of the future? Will not the
young women by-and-by find themselves in a lonesome place, cultivated away beyond their natural
comrades? Where will they spend their evenings? This sobering thought suggests a duty that
the young women are neglecting. We refer to the education of the young men. It is all very
well for them to form clubs for their own advancement, and they ought not to incur the charge
of selfishness in so doing; but how much better would they fulfill their mission if they would
form special societies for the cultivation of young men!--sort of intellectual mission bands.
Bring them into the literary circle. Make it attractive for them. Women with their attractions,
not to speak of their wiles, can do anything they set out to do. They can elevate the entire
present generation of young men, if they give their minds to it, to care for the intellectual
pursuits they care for. Give the men a chance, and----

Musing along in this way we are suddenly pulled up by the reflection that it is impossible
to make an unqualified statement that is wholly true about anything. What chance have I, anyway?
inquires the young man who thinks sometimes and occasionally wants to read. What sort of leading-strings
are these that I am getting into? Look at the drift of things. Is the feminization of the world
a desirable thing for a vigorous future? Are the women, or are they not, taking all the virility
out of literature? Answer me that. All the novels are written by, for, or about women--brought
to their standard. Even Henry James, who studies the sex untiringly, speaks about the "feminization
of literature." They write most of the newspaper correspondence--and write it for women. They
are even trying to feminize the colleges. Granted that woman is the superior being; all the
more, what chance is there for man if this sort of thing goes on? Are you going to make a race
of men on feminine fodder? And here is the still more perplexing part of it. Unless all analysis
of the female heart is a delusion, and all history false, what women like most of all things
in this world is a Man, virile, forceful, compelling, a solid rock of dependence, a substantial
unfeminine being, whom it is some satisfaction and glory and interest to govern and rule in
the right way, and twist round the feminine finger. If women should succeed in reducing or
raising--of course raising--men to the feminine standard, by feminizing society, literature,
the colleges, and all that, would they not turn on their creations--for even the Bible intimates
that women are uncertain and go in search of a Man? It is this sort of blind instinct of the
young man for preserving himself in the world that makes him so inaccessible to the good he
might get from the prevailing culture of the leisure class.

THE ADVENT OF CANDOR

Those who are anxious about the fate of Christmas, whether it is not becoming too worldly and
too expensive a holiday to be indulged in except by the very poor, mark with pleasure any indications
that the true spirit of the day--brotherhood and self-abnegation and charity--is infusing itself
into modern society. The sentimental Christmas of thirty years ago could not last; in time
the manufactured jollity got to be more tedious and a greater strain on the feelings than any
misfortune happening to one's neighbor. Even for a day it was very difficult to buzz about
in the cheery manner prescribed, and the reaction put human nature in a bad light. Nor was
it much better when gradually the day became one of Great Expectations, and the sweet spirit
of it was quenched in worry or soured in disappointment. It began to take on the aspect of
a great lottery, in which one class expected to draw in reverse proportion to what it put in,
and another class knew that it would only reap as it had sowed. The day, blessed in its origin,
and meaningless if there is a grain of selfishness in it, was thus likely to become a sort
of Clearing-house of all obligations and assume a commercial aspect that took the heart out
of it--like the enormous receptions for paying social debts which take the place of the old-fashioned
hospitality. Everybody knew, meantime, that the spirit of good-will, the grace of universal
sympathy, was really growing in the world, and that it was only our awkwardness that, by striving
to cram it all for a year into twenty-four hours, made it seem a little farcical. And everybody
knows that when goodness becomes fashionable, goodness is likely to suffer a little. A virtue
overdone falls on t'other side. And a holiday that takes on such proportions that the Express
companies and the Post-office cannot handle it is in danger of a collapse. In consideration
of these things, and because, as has been pointed out year after year, Christmas is becoming
a burden, the load of which is looked forward to with apprehension--and back on with nervous
prostration--fear has been expressed that the dearest of all holidays in Christian lands would
have to go again under a sort of Puritan protest, or into a retreat for rest and purification.
We are enabled to announce for the encouragement of the single-minded in this best of all days,
at the close of a year which it is best not to characterize, that those who stand upon the
social watch-towers in Europe and America begin to see a light--or, it would be better to say,
to perceive a spirit--in society which is likely to change many things, and; among others,
to work a return of Christian simplicity. As might be expected in these days, the spirit is
exhibited in the sex which is first at the wedding and last in the hospital ward. And as might
have been expected, also, this spirit is shown by the young woman of the period, in whose hands
are the issues of the future. If she preserve her present mind long enough, Christmas will
become a day that will satisfy every human being, for the purpose of the young woman will pervade
it. The tendency of the young woman generally to simplicity, of the American young woman to
a certain restraint (at least when abroad), to a deference to her elders, and to tradition,
has been noted. The present phenomenon is quite beyond this, and more radical. It is, one may
venture to say, an attempt to conform the inner being to the outward simplicity. If one could
suspect the young woman of taking up any line not original, it might be guessed that the present
fashion (which is bewildering the most worldly men with a new and irresistible fascination)
was set by the self-revelations of Marie Bashkirtseff. Very likely, however, it was a new spirit
in the world, of which Marie was the first publishing example. Its note is self-analysis, searching,
unsparing, leaving no room for the deception of self or of the world. Its leading feature is
extreme candor. It is not enough to tell the truth (that has been told before); but one must
act and tell the whole truth. One does not put on the shirt front and the standing collar and
the knotted cravat of the other sex as a mere form; it is an act of consecration, of rigid,
simple come-out-ness into the light of truth. This noble candor will suffer no concealments.
She would not have her lover even, still more the general world of men, think she is better,
or rather other, than she is. Not that she would like to appear a man among men, far from that;
but she wishes to talk with candor and be talked to candidly, without taking advantage of that
false shelter of sex behind which women have been accused of dodging. If she is nothing else,
she is sincere, one might say wantonly sincere. And this lucid, candid inner life is reflected
in her dress. This is not only simple in its form, in its lines; it is severe. To go into the
shop of a European modiste is almost to put one's self into a truthful and candid frame of
mind. Those leave frivolous ideas behind who enter here. The 'modiste' will tell the philosopher
that it is now the fashion to be severe; in a word, it is 'fesch'. Nothing can go beyond that.
And it symbolizes the whole life, its self-examination, earnestness, utmost candor in speech
and conduct.

The statesman who is busy about his tariff and his reciprocity, and his endeavor to raise money
like potatoes, may little heed and much undervalue this advent of candor into the world as
a social force. But the philosopher will make no such mistake. He knows that they who build
without woman build in vain, and that she is the great regenerator, as she is the great destroyer.
He knows too much to disregard the gravity of any fashionable movement. He knows that there
is no power on earth that can prevent the return of the long skirt. And that if the young woman
has decided to be severe and candid and frank with herself and in her intercourse with others,
we must submit and thank God.

And what a gift to the world is this for the Christmas season! The clear-eyed young woman of
the future, always dear and often an anxiety, will this year be an object of enthusiasm.

THE AMERICAN MAN

The American man only develops himself and spreads himself and grows "for all he is worth"
in the Great West. He is more free and limber there, and unfolds those generous peculiarities
and largenesses of humanity which never blossomed before. The "environment" has much to do
with it. The great spaces over which he roams contribute to the enlargement of his mental horizon.
There have been races before who roamed the illimitable desert, but they traveled on foot or
on camelback, and were limited in their range. There was nothing continental about them, as
there is about our railway desert travelers, who swing along through thousands of miles of
sand and sage-bush with a growing contempt for time and space. But expansive and great as these
people have become under the new conditions, we have a fancy that the development of the race
has only just begun, and that the future will show us in perfection a kind of man new to the
world. Out somewhere on the Santa Fe route, where the desert of one day was like the desert
of the day before, and the Pullman car rolls and swings over the wide waste beneath the blue
sky day after day, under its black flag of smoke, in the early gray of morning, when the men
were waiting their turns at the ablution bowls, a slip of a boy, perhaps aged seven, stood
balancing himself on his little legs, clad in knicker-bockers, biding his time, with all the
nonchalance of an old campaigner. "How did you sleep, cap?" asked a well-meaning elderly gentleman.
"Well, thank you," was the dignified response; "as I always do on a sleeping-car." Always does?
Great horrors! Hardly out of his swaddling-clothes, and yet he always sleeps well in a sleeper!
Was he born on the wheels? was he cradled in a Pullman? He has always been in motion, probably;
he was started at thirty miles an hour, no doubt, this marvelous boy of our new era. He was
not born in a house at rest, but the locomotive snatched him along with a shriek and a roar
before his eyes were fairly open, and he was rocked in a "section," and his first sensation
of life was that of moving rapidly over vast arid spaces, through cattle ranges and along canons.
The effect of quick and easy locomotion on character may have been noted before, but it seems
that here is the production of a new sort of man, the direct product of our railway era. It
is not simply that this boy is mature, but he must be a different and a nobler sort of boy
than one born, say, at home or on a canal-boat; for, whether he was born on the rail or not,
he belongs to the railway system of civilization. Before he gets into trousers he is old in
experience, and he has discounted many of the novelties that usually break gradually on the
pilgrim in this world. He belongs to the new expansive race that must live in motion, whose
proper home is the Pullman (which will probably be improved in time into a dustless, sweet-smelling,
well-aired bedroom), and whose domestic life will be on the wing, so to speak. The Inter-State
Commerce Bill will pass him along without friction from end to end of the Union, and perhaps
a uniform divorce law will enable him to change his marital relations at any place where he
happens to dine. This promising lad is only a faint intimation of what we are all coming to
when we fully acquire the freedom of the continent, and come into that expansiveness of feeling
and of language which characterizes the Great West. It is a burst of joyous exuberance that
comes from the sense of an illimitable horizon. It shows itself in the tender words of a local
newspaper at Bowie, Arizona, on the death of a beloved citizen: "'Death loves a shining mark,'
and she hit a dandy when she turned loose on Jim." And also in the closing words of a New Mexico
obituary, which the Kansas Magazine quotes: "Her tired spirit was released from the pain-racking
body and soared aloft to eternal glory at 4.30 Denver time." We die, as it were, in motion,
as we sleep, and there is nowhere any boundary to our expansion. Perhaps we shall never again
know any rest as we now understand the term--rest being only change of motion--and we shall
not be able to sleep except on the cars, and whether we die by Denver time or by the 90th meridian,
we shall only change our time. Blessed be this slip of a boy who is a man before he is an infant,
and teaches us what rapid transit can do for our race! The only thing that can possibly hinder
us in our progress will be second childhood; we have abolished first.

THE ELECTRIC WAY

We are quite in the electric way. We boast that we have made electricity our slave, but the
slave whom we do not understand is our master. And before we know him we shall be transformed.
Mr. Edison proposes to send us over the country at the rate of one hundred miles an hour. This
pleases us, because we fancy we shall save time, and because we are taught that the chief object
in life is to "get there" quickly. We really have an idea that it is a gain to annihilate distance,
forgetting that as a matter of personal experience we are already too near most people. But
this speed by rail will enable us to live in Philadelphia and do business in New York. It will
make the city of Chicago two hundred miles square. And the bigger Chicago is, the more important
this world becomes. This pleasing anticipation--that of traveling by lightning, and all being
huddled together--is nothing to the promised universal illumination by a diffused light that
shall make midnight as bright as noonday. We shall then save all the time there is, and at
the age of thirty-five have lived the allotted seventy years, and long, if not for 'Gotterdammerung',
at least for some world where, by touching a button, we can discharge our limbs of electricity
and take a little repose. The most restless and ambitious of us can hardly conceive of Chicago
as a desirable future state of existence.

This, however, is only the external or superficial view of the subject; at the best it is only
symbolical. Mr. Edison is wasting his time in objective experiments, while we are in the deepest
ignorance as to our electric personality or our personal electricity. We begin to apprehend
that we are electric beings, that these outward manifestations of a subtile form are only hints
of our internal state. Mr. Edison should turn his attention from physics to humanity electrically
considered in its social condition. We have heard a great deal about affinities. We are told
that one person is positive and another negative, and that representing socially opposite poles
they should come together and make an electric harmony, that two positives or two negatives
repel each other, and if conventionally united end in divorce, and so on. We read that such
a man is magnetic, meaning that he can poll a great many votes; or that such a woman thrilled
her audience, meaning probably that they were in an electric condition to be shocked by her.
Now this is what we want to find out--to know if persons are really magnetic or sympathetic,
and how to tell whether a person is positive or negative. In politics we are quite at sea.
What is the good of sending a man to Washington at the rate of a hundred miles an hour if we
are uncertain of his electric state? The ideal House of Representatives ought to be pretty
nearly balanced--half positive, half negative. Some Congresses seem to be made up pretty much
of negatives. The time for the electrician to test the candidate is before he is put in nomination,
not dump him into Congress as we do now, utterly ignorant of whether his currents run from
his heels to his head or from his head to his heels, uncertain, indeed, as to whether he has
magnetism to run in at all. Nothing could be more unscientific than the process and the result.

In social life it is infinitely worse. You, an electric unmarried man, enter a room full of
attractive women. How are you to know who is positive and who is negative, or who is a maiden
lady in equilibrium, if it be true, as scientists affirm, that the genus old maid is one in
whom the positive currents neutralize the negative currents? Your affinity is perhaps the plainest
woman in the room. But beauty is a juggling sprite, entirely uncontrolled by electricity, and
you are quite likely to make a mistake. It is absurd the way we blunder on in a scientific
age. We touch a button, and are married. The judge touches another button, and we are divorced.
If when we touched the first button it revealed us both negatives, we should start back in
horror, for it is only before engagement that two negatives make an affirmative. That is the
reason that some clergymen refuse to marry a divorced woman; they see that she has made one
electric mistake, and fear she will make another. It is all very well for the officiating clergyman
to ask the two intending to commit matrimony if they have a license from the town clerk, if
they are of age or have the consent of parents, and have a million; but the vital point is
omitted. Are they electric affinities? It should be the duty of the town-clerk, by a battery,
or by some means to be discovered by electricians, to find out the galvanic habit of the parties,
their prevailing electric condition. Temporarily they may seem to be in harmony, and may deceive
themselves into the belief that they are at opposite poles equidistant from the equator, and
certain to meet on that imaginary line in matrimonial bliss. Dreadful will be the awakening
to an insipid life, if they find they both have the same sort of currents. It is said that
women change their minds and their dispositions, that men are fickle, and that both give way
after marriage to natural inclinations that were suppressed while they were on the good behavior
that the supposed necessity of getting married imposes. This is so notoriously true that it
ought to create a public panic. But there is hope in the new light. If we understand it, persons
are born in a certain electrical condition, and substantially continue in it, however much
they may apparently wobble about under the influence of infirm minds and acquired wickedness.
There are, of course, variations of the compass to be reckoned with, and the magnet may occasionally
be bewitched by near and powerful attracting objects. But, on the whole, the magnet remains
the same, and it is probable that a person's normal electric condition is the thing in him
least liable to dangerous variation. If this be true, the best basis for matrimony is the electric,
and our social life would have fewer disappointments if men and women went about labeled with
their scientifically ascertained electric qualities.

CAN A HUSBAND OPEN HIS WIFE'S LETTERS?

Can a husband open his wife's letters? That would depend, many would say, upon what kind of
a husband he is. But it cannot be put aside in that flippant manner, for it is a legal right
that is in question, and it has recently been decided in a Paris tribunal that the husband
has the right to open the letters addressed to his wife. Of course in America an appeal would
instantly be taken from this decision, and perhaps by husbands themselves; for in this world
rights are becoming so impartially distributed that this privilege granted to the husband might
at once be extended to the wife, and she would read all his business correspondence, and his
business is sometimes various and complicated. The Paris decision must be based upon the familiar
formula that man and wife are one, and that that one is the husband. If a man has the right
to read all the letters written to his wife, being his property by reason of his ownership
of her, why may he not have a legal right to know all that is said to her? The question is
not whether a wife ought to receive letters that her husband may not read, or listen to talk
that he may not hear, but whether he has a sort of lordship that gives him privileges which
she does not enjoy. In our modern notion of marriage, which is getting itself expressed in
statute law, marriage is supposed to rest on mutual trust and mutual rights. In theory the
husband and wife are still one, and there can nothing come into the life of one that is not
shared by the other; in fact, if the marriage is perfect and the trust absolute, the personality
of each is respected by the other, and each is freely the judge of what shall be contributed
to the common confidence; and if there are any concealments, it is well believed that they
are for the mutual good. If every one were as perfect in the marriage relation as those who
are reading these lines, the question of the wife's letters would never arise. The man, trusting
his wife, would not care to pry into any little secrets his wife might have, or bother himself
about her correspondence; he would know, indeed, that if he had lost her real affection, a
surveillance of her letters could not restore it.

