I found it not difficult to revive with a certain vividness the memory of those cold and rainy
November weeks that I had happened to spend alone, some years ago, in Venice, and of the churches
which I had so frequently haunted. Especially I remembered the great dreary church in the piazza
near my lodgings, into which I would often go on my way to my rooms in the twilight. It was
the season when all the Venice churches are draped in black, and services for the dead are
held in them at dawn and twilight; and when I entered this Baroque interior, with its twisted
columns and volutes and high-piled, hideous tombs, adorned with skeletons and allegorical figures
and angels blowing trumpets--all so agitated, and yet all so dead and empty and frigid--I would
find the fantastic darkness filled with glimmering candles, and kneeling figures, and the discordant
noise of chanting. There I would sit, while outside night fell with the rain on Venice; the
palaces and green canals faded into darkness, and the great bells, swinging against the low
sky, sent the melancholy sound of their voices far over the lagoons.

It was here, in this church, that I used to see Sir Eustace Carr; would generally find him
in the same corner when I entered, and would sometimes watch his face, until the ceremonious
extinguishing of the candles, one by one, left us in shadowy night. It was a handsome and thoughtful
face, and I remember more than once wondering what had brought him to Venice in that unseasonable
month, and why he came so regularly to this monotonous service. It was as if some spell had
drawn him; and now, with my curiosity newly wakened, I asked myself what had been that spell?
I also must have been affected by it, for I had been there also in his uncommunicating company.
Here, I felt, was perhaps the answer to my question, the secret of the enigma that puzzled
me; and as I went over my memories of that time, and revived its sombre and almost sinister
fascination, I seemed to see an answer looming before my imagination. But it was an answer,
an hypothesis or supposition, so fantastic, that my common sense could hardly accept it.

For I now saw that the spell which had been on us both at that time in Venice had been nothing
but the spell and tremendous incantation of the Thought of Death. The dreary city with its
decaying palaces and great tomb-encumbered churches had really seemed, in those dark and desolate
weeks, to be the home and metropolis of the great King of Terrors; and the services at dawn
and twilight, with their prayers for the Dead, and funereal candles, had been the chanted ritual
of his worship. Now suppose (such was the notion that held my imagination) suppose this spell,
which I had felt but for a time and dimly, should become to someone a real obsession, casting
its shadow more and more completely over a life otherwise prosperous and happy, might not this
be the clue to a history like that of Sir Eustace Carr's--not only his interest in the buried
East, his presence at that time in Venice, but also his unexplained and mysterious end?

Musing on this half-believed notion, I thought of the great personages and great nations we
read of in ancient history, who have seemed to live with a kind of morbid pleasure in the shadow
of this great Thought; who have surrounded themselves with mementoes of Death, and hideous
symbols of its power, and who, like the Egyptians, have found their main interest, not in the
present, but in imaginary explorations of the unknown future; not on the sunlit surface of
this earth, but in the vaults and dwelling-places of the Dead beneath it.

