But if it is righteousness thus to fuse together our divisive impulses and march with one mind
through life, there is plainly one thing more unrighteous than all others, and one declension
which is irretrievable and draws on the rest. And this is to lose consciousness of oneself.
In the best of times, it is but by flashes, when our whole nature is clear, strong, and conscious,
and events conspire to leave us free, that we enjoy communion with our soul. At the worst we
are so fallen and passive that we may say shortly we have none. An arctic torpor seizes upon
men. Although built of nerves, and set adrift in a stimulating world, they develop a tendency
to go bodily to sleep; consciousness becomes engrossed among the reflex and mechanical parts
of life; and soon loses both the will and power to look higher considerations in the face.
This is ruin; this is the last failure in life; this is temporal damnation, damnation on the
spot and without the form of judgment: 'What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world
and LOSE HIMSELF?'

*****

To ask to see some fruit of our endeavour is but a transcendental way of serving for reward;
and what we take to be contempt of self is only greed of hire.

*****

We are are all such as He was--the inheritors of sin; we must all bear and expiate a past which
was not ours; there is in all of us--ay, even in me--a sparkle of the divine. Like Him, we
must endure for a little while, until morning returns, bringing peace.

*****

Truth of intercourse is something more difficult than to refrain from open lies. It is possible
to avoid falsehood and yet not tell the truth. It is not enough to answer formal questions.
To reach the truth by yea and nay communications implies a questioner with a share of inspiration,
such as is often found in mutual love. YEA and NAY mean nothing; the meaning must have been
related in the question. Many Words are often necessary to convey a very simple statement;
for in this sort of exercise we never hit the gold; the most that we can hope is by many arrows,
more or less far off on different sides, to indicate, in the course of time, for what target
we are aiming, and after an hour's talk, back and forward, to convey the purport of a single
principle or a single thought.

*****

The cruellist lies are often told in silence. A man may have sat in a room for hours and not
opened his teeth, and yet come out of that room a disloyal friend or a vile calumniator. And
how many loves have perished because, from pride, or spite, or diffidence, or that unmanly
shame which withholds a man from daring to betray emotion, a lover, at the critical point of
the relation, has but hung his head and held his tongue? And, again, a lie may be told by a
truth, or a truth conveyed through a lie. Truth to facts is not always truth to sentiment;
and part of the truth, as often happens in answer to a question, may be the foulest calumny.
A fact may be an exception; but the feeling is the law, and it is that which you must neither
garble nor belie. The whole tenor of a conversation is a part of the meaning of each separate
statement; the beginning and the end define and travesty the intermediate conversation. You
never speak to God; you address a fellow-man, full of his own tempers: and to tell truth, rightly
understood, is not to state the true facts, but to convey a true impression; truth in spirit,
not truth to letter, is the true veracity.

*****

In one word, it must always be foul to tell what is false; and it can never be safe to suppress
what is true. Talk has none of the freezing immunities of the pulpit.

*****

And it happens that literature is, in some ways, but an indifferent means to such an end. Language
is but a poor bull's-eye lantern wherewith to show off the vast cathedral of the world; and
yet a particular thing once said in words is so definite and memorable, that it makes us forget
the absence of the many which remain unexpressed; like a bright window in a distant view, which
dazzles and confuses our sight of its surroundings. There are not words enough in all Shakespeare
to express the merest fraction of a man's experience in an hour. The speed of the eyesight
and the hearing, and the continual industry of the mind, produce; in ten minutes, what it would
require a laborious volume to shadow forth by comparisons and roundabout approaches. If verbal
logic were sufficient, life would be as plain sailing as a piece of Euclid. But, as a matter
of fact, we make a travesty of the simplest process of thought when we put it into words; for
the words are all coloured and forsworn, apply inaccurately, and bring with them, from former
uses, ideas of praise and blame that have nothing to do with the question in hand. So we must
always see to it nearly, that we judge by the realities of life and not by the partial terms
that represent them in man's speech; and at times of choice, we must leave words upon one side,
and act upon those brute convictions, unexpressed and perhaps inexpressible, which cannot be
flourished in an argument, but which are truly the sum and fruit of our experience. Words are
for communication, not for judgment. This is what every thoughtful man knows for himself, for
only fools and silly schoolmasters push definitions over far into the domain of conduct; and
the majority of women, not learned in these scholastic refinements, live all-of-a-piece and
unconsciously, as a tree grows, without caring to put a name upon their acts or motives.

*****

No man was ever so poor that he could express all he has in him by words, looks, or actions;
his true knowledge is eternally incommunicable, for it is a knowledge of himself; and his best
wisdom comes to him by no process of the mind, but in a supreme self-dictation, which keeps
varying from hour to hour in its dictates with the variation of events and circumstances.

*****

Overmastering pain--the most deadly and tragical element in life--alas! pain has its own way
with all of us; it breaks in, a rude visitant, upon the fairy garden where the child wanders
in a dream, no less surely than it rules upon the field of battle, or sends the immortal war-god
whimpering to his father; and innocence, no more than philosophy, can protect us from this sting.

*****

Where did you hear that it was easy to be honest? Do you find that in your Bible? Easy? It
is easy to be an ass and follow the multitude like a blind, besotted bull in a stampede; and
that, I am well aware, is what you and Mrs. Grundy mean by being honest. But it will not bear
the stress of time nor the scrutiny of conscience.

*****

Though I have all my life been eager for legitimate distinction, I can lay my hand upon my
heart, at the end of my career, and declare there is not one--no, nor yet life itself--which
is worth acquiring or preserving at the slightest cost of dignity.

*****

For surely, at this time of the day in the nineteenth century, there is nothing that an honest
man should fear more timorously than getting and spending more than he deserves.

*****

It remains to be seen, by each man who would live a true life to himself and not a merely specious
life to society, how many luxuries he truly wants and to how many he merely submits as to a
social propriety; and all these last he will immediately forswear. Let him do this, and he
will be surprised to find how little money it requires to keep him in complete contentment
and activity of mind and senses. Life at any level among the easy classes is conceived upon
a principle of rivalry, where each man and each household must ape the tastes and emulate the
display of others. One is delicate in eating, another in wine, a third in furniture or works
of art or dress; and I, who care nothing for any of these refinements, who am perhaps a plain
athletic creature and love exercise, beef, beer, flannel-shirts, and a camp bed, am yet called
upon to assimilate all these other tastes and make these foreign occasions of expenditure my
own. It may be cynical; I am sure I will be told it is selfish; but I will spend my money as
I please and for my own intimate personal gratification, and should count myself a nincompoop
indeed to lay out the colour of a halfpenny on any fancied social decency or duty. I shall
not wear gloves unless my hands are cold, or unless I am born with a delight in them. Dress
is my own affair, and that of one other in the world; that, in fact, and for an obvious reason,
of any woman who shall chance to be in love with me. I shall lodge where I have a mind. If
I do not ask society to live with me, they must be silent; and even if I do, they have no further
right but to refuse the invitation.

*****

To a gentleman is to be one all the world over, and in every relation and grade of society.
It is a high calling, to which a man must first be born, and then devote himself for life.
And, unhappily, the manners of a certain so-called upper grade have a kind of currency, and
meet with a certain external acceptation throughout all the others, and this tends to keep
us well satisfied with slight acquirements and the amateurish accomplishments of a clique.
But manners, like art, should be human and central.

*****

Respectability is a very thing in its way, but it does not rise superior to all considerations.
I would not for a moment venture to hint that it was a matter of taste; but I think I will
go as far as this: that if a position is admittedly unkind, uncomfortable, unnecessary, and
superfluously useless, although it were as respectable as the Church of England, the sooner
a man is out of it, the better for himself and all concerned.

*****

After all, I thought, our satirist has just gone far enough into his neighbours to find that
the outside is false, without caring to go farther and discover what is really true. He is
content to find that things are not what they seem, and broadly generalises from it that they
do not exist at all. He sees our virtues are not what they pretend they are; and, on the strength
of that, he denies us the possession of virtue altogether. He has learned the first lesson,
that no man is wholly good; but he has not even suspected that there is another equally true,
to wit, that no man is wholly bad.

*****

Or take the case of men of letters. Every piece of work which is not as good as you can make
it, which you have palmed off imperfect, meagrely thought, niggardly in execution, upon mankind,
who is your paymaster on parole, and in a sense your pupil, every hasty or slovenly or untrue
performance, should rise up against you in the court of your own heart and condemn you for a thief.

*****

Sympathy is a thing to be encouraged, apart from humane considerations, because it supplies
us with the materials for wisdom. It is probably more instructive to entertain a sneaking kindness
for any unpopular person.... than to give way to perfect raptures of moral indignation against
his abstract vices.

*****

In the best fabric of duplicity there is some weak point, if you can strike it, which will
loosen all.

*****

It is at best but a pettifogging, pickthank business to decompose actions into little personal
motives, and explain heroism away. The Abstract Bagman will grow like an Admiral at heart,
not by ungrateful carping, but in a heat of admiration.

*****

After an hospital, what uglier piece is there in civilisation than a court of law? Hither come
envy, malice, and all uncharitableness to wrestle it out in public tourney; crimes, broken
fortunes, severed households, the knave and his victim, gravitate to this low building with
the arcade. To how many has not St. Giles's bell told the first hour after ruin? I think I
see them pause to count the strokes and wander on again into the moving High Street, stunned
and sick at heart.

*****

There are two things that men should never weary of--goodness and humility.

*****

It is not enough to have earned our livelihood. Either the earning itself should have been
serviceable to mankind, or something else must follow. To live is sometimes very difficult,
but it is never meritorious in itself; and we must have a reason to allege to our own conscience
why we should continue to exist upon this crowded earth. If Thoreau had simply dwelt in his
house at Walden, a lover of trees, birds, and fishes, and the open air and virtue, a reader
of wise books, an idle, selfish self-improver, he would have managed to cheat Admetus, but,
to cling to metaphor, the devil would have had him in the end. Those who can avoid toil altogether
and dwell in the Arcadia of private means, and even those who can, by abstinence, reduce the
necessary amount of it to some six weeks a year, having the more liberty, have only the higher
moral obligation to be up and doing in the interest of man.

*****

A man may have done well for years, and then he may fail; he will hear of his failure. Or he
may have done well for years, and still do well, but the critic may have tired of praising
him, or there may have sprung up some new idol of the instant, some 'dust a little gilt,' to
whom they now prefer to offer sacrifice. Here is the obverse and the reverse of that empty
and ugly thing called popularity. Will any man suppose it worth gaining?

*****

Among sayings that have a currency in spite of being wholly false upon the face of them for
the sake of a half-truth upon another subject which is accidentally combined with the error,
one of the grossest and broadest conveys the monstrous proposition that it is easy to tell
the truth and hard to tell a lie. I wish heartily it were. But the truth is one; it has first
to be discovered, then justly and exactly uttered.

*****

For such things as honour and love and faith are not only nobler than food and drink, but indeed
I think that we desire them more, and suffer more sharply for their absence.

*****

There is a strong feeling in favour of cowardly and prudential proverbs. The sentiments of
a man while he is full of ardour and hope are to be received, it is supposed, with some qualification.
But when the same person has ignominiously failed and begins to eat up his words, he should
be listened to like an oracle. Most of our pocket wisdom is conceived for the use of mediocre
people, to discourage them from ambitious attempts, and generally console them in their mediocrity.
And since mediocre people constitute the bulk of humanity, this is no doubt very properly so.
But it does not follow that the one sort of proposition is any less true than the other, or
that Icarus is not to be more praised, and perhaps more envied, than Mr. Samuel Budgett the
successful merchant.

*****

It is all very fine to talk about tramps and morality. Six hours of police surveillance (such
as I have had) or one brutal rejection from an inn-door change your views upon the subject
like a course of lectures. As long as you keep in the upper regions, with all the world bowing
to you as you go, social arrangements have a very handsome air; but once get under the wheels
and you wish society were at the devil. I will give most respectable men a fortnight of such
a life, and then I will offer them twopence for what remains of their morality.

*****

I hate cynicism a great deal worse than I do the devil; unless, perhaps, the two were the same
thing? And yet 'tis a good tonic; the cold tub and bath-towel of the sentiments; and positively
necessary to life in cases of advanced sensibility.

*****

