The action of James in expelling the Jesuits and Seminary priests had in the meantime so incensed
the Catholics that a plot was set on foot for blowing up the king, the lords and commons, with
gunpowder, as soon as parliament should re-assemble. In May (1604) a house had been hired by
a Catholic named Robert Catesby, through which access might be gained to the basement of the
parliament-house. The party-wall, however, proved exceptionally thick, and more than a year
elapsed before the necessary mining operations were complete. Catesby was assisted in his work
by a Spaniard named Guy Fawkes, who assumed the name of John Johnson. In the spring of 1605
the exasperation of the Catholics was increased by James again imposing the recusancy fines,
and the little band of plotters increased in numbers, although never allowed to become large.
The design of the conspirators was rendered more easy of execution by the discovery that a
cellar reaching under the parliament-house was to be let. This was hired by one of the plotters,
and a large quantity of gunpowder was safely deposited there and carefully concealed. After
several adjournments parliament was summoned to assemble on the 5th November. On the eve of
its meeting Fawkes entered the cellar with a lantern, ready to fire the train in the morning.
One of the conspirators, however, Tresham by name, had given his friends some hint of the impending
danger. Fawkes was seized and committed to the Tower, where he was subjected to the most horrible
torture by the king’s orders.(39) The rest of the conspirators, with the exception of Winter,
took immediate flight. Hue and cry was raised,(40) and a personal description of the leaders
for their better identification was scattered throughout the country. Winter was described
as "a man of meane stature, rather lowe than otherwise, square made, somewhat stouping, neere
fortie yeares of age, his haire and beard browne, his beard not much and his haire short";
Stephen Littleton, another conspirator, as "a verye tall man, swarthy of complexion, of browne
coloured haire, no beard or litle, about thirty yeares of age"; and Thomas Percy, another,
as "a tall man, with a great broad beard, a good face, the colour of his beard and head mingled
with white heares, but stoupeth somewhat in the shoulders, well coloured in the face, long-footed,
small legged."(41)

On the 8th November the mayor issued his precept for bonfires to be lighted that evening in
the principal streets of the city in token of joy and thanksgiving for the deliverance of the
king and parliament from this "most horrible treason."(42) A week later (16 Nov.) another precept
was addressed to the alderman of each ward to furnish an extra watch, as those who had been
engaged in safe-guarding the city had found the work too much for them "since the troubles
begonne."(43) A diligent search was subsequently ordered to be made in every cellar and vault
for any illegal store of gunpowder.(44) Fawkes and such of his fellow-conspirators as were
taken alive were brought to trial at Westminster, in January (1606), and executed, some in
St. Paul’s Churchyard and others before the parliament-house, their quarters being afterwards
placed on the city’s gates, whilst their heads were stuck up on London bridge.(45) Pending
their trial a double watch was kept in the city and fresh halberds issued.(46)

Three Jesuits were implicated in the plot, their names being John Gerrard, Oswald Greenway,
and Henry Garnet. Gerrard and Greenway effected their escape, but Garnet was captured after
having suffered much deprivation whilst in hiding, and was brought to trial at the Guildhall.
Gerrard is described as tall and well set up, but his complexion "swart or blackish, his face
large, his cheeks sticking out and somewhat hollow underneath," his hair long unless recently
cut, his beard cut close, "saving littell mustachoes and a littell tuft under his lower lippe,"
his age about forty. Equally precise descriptions are given of Greenway and Garnet; the former
being represented as of "meane stature, somewhat grosse," his hair black, his beard bushy and
brown, his forehead broad, and his age about the same as that of Gerrard; whilst Garnet is
described as an older man, between fifty and sixty years of age, of fair complexion, full face
and grisly hair, with a high forehead, and corpulent.(47) At his trial, which took place on
the 28th March, Garnet denied all knowledge of the plot save what he had heard under the seal
of confession. He was nevertheless convicted and executed (3 May) in St. Paul’s Churchyard.(48)

(M16)

Notwithstanding the capture and execution of the chief actors in the late conspiracy, some
time elapsed before the nation recovered from the shock, and every idle rumour of mishap to
the king soon became exaggerated as it flew from one end of the kingdom to the other. Thus
it was that the citizens of London awoke on the morning of Saturday, the 22nd March, to learn
that the king was reported to have been killed with a poisoned dagger whilst engaged in his
favourite pursuit of hunting. The alarm thus raised was with difficulty laid to rest by the
following precept(49):—

    By ye Mayor.

    "Where rumor hath this morninge bine dispersed abroad within
    this cittie and ells where neere about the same that his maties
    person was in very greate dainger for asmuch I have even now
    receaved intelligence from the lords of his maties most
    honorable pryvye counsell that his matie god be thancked is in
    saftie, and that I should presently make knowne the same to all
    his lovinge subiects which by theis presents I doe.

    God save ye kinge."

On the 10th June James signed a proclamation ordering all Priests, Jesuits, Seminaries and
such like to depart the kingdom before the first day of August. Any priest presenting himself
to the officer of a sea-port, and acknowledging his profession, would be forwarded on his way
across the sea, with the exception of Gerrard and Greenway, or Greenwell.(50)

(M17)

In July of this year (1606) the king of Denmark arrived in England on a visit to his brother-in-law,
king James. The mayor, being informed by the lords of the council that the Danish fleet was
already in the Thames, summoned a Common Council (17 July) to consider what steps should be
taken to give the royal visitor a befitting reception in the city. A committee was thereupon
appointed to make the necessary preparations.(51) They had but a fortnight before them for
contriving a pageant, cleansing the streets, setting up rails and executing the thousand little
things which always require to be done on such occasions. The sum of £1,000 was raised by the
livery companies,(52) and each alderman was directed to see that the inhabitants of his ward
hung out suitable tapestry from houses on the line of procession. The distinguished visitor
was presented with a gold cup taken from the king’s jewel-house in the Tower. It weighed 62-3/4
ozs., and the City paid for it at the rate of £3 10s. per ounce.(53) There was but one thing
to mar the general rejoicing in the city, and that was the presence of the plague. This necessitated
special precautions being taken to prevent the spread of infection, and an additional number
of wardens were appointed to take their stand, halberd in hand, at the doors of infected houses
on the day of the king’s visit to prevent anyone going in or coming out.(54)

(M18)

That the chief cause of the city being so often visited by epidemics in former days was the
lack of a plentiful supply of wholesome water will scarcely be denied. When we consider with
what rapidity the population of the city increased, more especially under the Tudors, the short-sighted
policy of a government which forbade the erection of new buildings within three miles of the
city’s gates,(55) and drove so many families to find shelter under one roof within the limited
area of the city proper, in spite of proclamations to the contrary,(56) the want of any organised
system of drainage, and the scanty supply of water—we can only marvel that the city was ever
free from epidemics.

In 1543 the municipal authorities obtained statutory powers to amend decayed conduits and erect
new ones, as well as to bring water to the city from Hampstead,(57) and from that time they
appear to have taken a more active interest in the water supply. They made periodical visits
to the various conduits, and more especially the conduit-head at Marylebone, where a banqueting-house
was erected for their convenience. Nevertheless they preferred encouraging private individuals
(and these not infrequently foreigners) in attempts to improve the city’s water supply, as
necessity arose, to undertaking the work themselves in their corporate capacity. In 1570 the
City acquired parliamentary powers to break soil for the purpose of conveying water from the
river Lea, "otherwise called Ware River," at any time within the next ten years,(58) but these
powers were allowed to lapse by default. In 1581 Peter Morice, a Dutchman, obtained permission
to set up a water-mill in the Thames at London Bridge, and by some mechanical contrivance—a
"most artificial forcier"—succeeded in conveying water as far as Leadenhall and Gracechurch.
The civic authorities were so pleased with the result of his first efforts that they assisted
him with a loan of £1,000 to perfect his work.(59) Ten years later (1591) the famous Italian
engineer—of "fire-ship" fame—Frederico Gianibelli obtained the consent of the Court of Aldermen
to erect new water-works at Tyburn for the purpose of providing the city with a better supply.(60)
In 1593 Beavis Bulmer, another foreigner (to judge from his name), obtained a lease for 500
years permitting him to set up an engine at Broken Wharf for the purpose of supplying water
to the inhabitants of the city. The Court of Aldermen granted him the use of the green-yard
at Leadenhall for putting together his engine, whilst the court of Common Council advanced
him the sum of £1,000 on easy terms.(61) Soon after the granting of Bulmer’s lease the Common
Council conceded to Henry Shaw a right to convey water from Fogwell pond, Smithfield, and to
supply it to anyone willing to pay him for it, for a similar term of 500 years.(62)

(M19)

At length a scheme was started at the opening of the seventeenth century which not only proved
itself equal to the task of supplying the ever-increasing population of London with an adequate
supply of water, but was destined in after years to render its undertakers rich "beyond the
dreams of avarice." The New River Company, the original shares of which are of almost fabulous
value at the present day, had its commencement in an Act of Parliament (3 James I, c. 18) which
empowered the mayor, commonalty and citizens of London and their successors at any time to
make an open trench(63) for the purpose of bringing a fresh stream of running water to the
north parts of the city from springs at Chadwell and Amwell, co. Herts. Whilst showing themselves
ready and anxious to render the city more healthy and less subject to epidemics by cleansing
the city’s ditches of all filth and draining Finsbury and the Moorfields,(64) the civic authorities
were appalled at the enormity of their own proposals, and hesitated to carry out what at that
time appeared to be an engineering task of stupendous difficulty. Three years elapsed and nothing
was done. Offers were made by various individuals to execute the work for them, but these were
declined.(65) At length, on the 28th March, 1609, Hugh Middleton, a goldsmith of London, but
of Welsh extraction, declared himself ready to undertake the work and to complete it within
four years. His offer was accepted, and an agreement was drawn up and executed on the 21st
April.(66)

(M20)

Notwithstanding the lords of the council having been desired by the lord mayor to instruct
the Justices of the Peace of Hertfordshire and Middlesex to assist Middleton and his men in
carrying out their work,(67) the undertaking met with great opposition. Among the various objections
raised to the New River scheme was one to the effect that the municipal authorities had done
nothing in the business themselves, but had by Act of Common Council irrevocably conveyed their
whole interest in fee simple to Middleton, who was carrying out the work "for his own private
benefit." To this objection answer was made that if the mayor and citizens would not adventure
upon so uncertain a work Middleton deserved the greater commendation in adventuring his money
and labour for the good of the city, and if the city was benefited and the country not prejudiced
Middleton deserved all that he gained.(68) A bill was introduced into parliament to repeal
the Acts authorising the construction of the New River, and a committee appointed (20 June,
1610) to survey the damages caused or likely to be caused by the work,(69) and report thereon
to the House. "Much ado there is also in the House," wrote a contemporary to his friend,(70)
"about the work undertaken and far advanced already by Middleton, of the cutting of a river
and bringing it to London from ten or twelve miles off, through the grounds of many men who,
for their particular interest, do strongly oppose themselves to it, and are like (as ’tis said)
to overthrow it all." The bill was opposed by the City. A deputation consisting of two aldermen,
the Town Clerk and the City Remembrancer was appointed (25 May, 1610) to wait upon Sir John
Herbert, one of the principal Secretaries of State, Sir Julius Cæsar, Chancellor of the Exchequer,
and other influential members of parliament, for the purpose of entreating them to use their
efforts to prevent the repeal of the statutes on the ground that the stream of fresh water
which would thereby be brought to the north parts of the city would tend to the preservation
of health; that the work had already been carried ten miles, and that Middleton had already
expended more than £3,000 in carrying it out.(71)

(M21)

Middleton was eventually allowed to proceed with his work, but the delay that had taken place
made it necessary for him to apply to the Common Council for an extension of time within which
to complete it. The City readily consented to grant him an extension of five years (27 Feb.,
1611).(72) No application for pecuniary assistance however appears to have been made to the
City at this or any other time whilst the work was in progress by Middleton, although he lacked
funds and was compelled in the following year to seek the assistance of James himself. The
king was familiar with Middleton and his undertaking, for the New River was carried past his
own hunting-lodge of Theobalds. In May (1612) he agreed to pay half the cost of the whole work
on condition that Middleton would convey to him one-half of the property. Middleton could not
do otherwise than accept the king’s offer, and in the following August executed a deed conveying
thirty-six shares to James.(73)

(M22)

With royalty at his back Middleton was enabled to complete his undertaking, and the New River
was opened with befitting ceremony on the very day (29 Sept., 1613) that Thomas,(74) his elder
brother, was elected to the mayoralty chair for the ensuing year.

(M23)

Even then the whole enterprise might have failed had not pressure been brought to bear to make
the inhabitants of the city use the New River water to the exclusion of other supplies. In
1616, three years after the New River had been opened, the lords of the council wrote (23 Dec.)
to the mayor and aldermen informing them that it was the king’s wish that, inasmuch as few
persons used the new supply, the city authorities should see that all such houses as could
conveniently use it should be made to use it, for it was not to be supposed, said they, that
two Acts of Parliament and an Act of Common Council affecting the health and safety of the
city should be passed to no other purpose than to injure those who undertook so useful a work
on the part of the city.(75) So again, in the following year (1617), when the brewers of London
wished to erect waterworks on their own account at Dowgate, they were stopped by order of the
Privy Council, and told to take their water from the New River, which had been made at great
expense, "was of great consequence to his majesty’s service, and deserved all due encouragement."(76)
Even the civic authorities themselves were forbidden (11 April, 1634) to improve the supply
from Tyburn, on which they had already expended much money, for fear of injuring the interests
of the shareholders of the New River Company,(77) who had but recently received their first
dividend.(78)

(M24)

Soon after the completion of the New River, Middleton applied to the City for a loan. The whole
of his own capital had been sunk in his vast undertaking, and he required an advance of £3,000.
The loan was granted (8 Sept., 1614) for three years at six per cent., security being given
by his brother Thomas, the lord mayor, Robert, another brother, and Robert Bateman.(79)

(M25)

In 1622 (19 Oct.) James conferred on Middleton a baronetcy—a new hereditary title recently
established for supplying the king with money to put down the Irish rebellion.(80) Middleton,
however, appears to have been too poor to pay the sum of £1,000 or so for which the new title
was purchasable; at any rate the money was not exacted.(81) A baronet in the city of London
(by the way) enjoyed the special privilege of exemption from serving as sheriff. "It was unfit,"
wrote James to the lord mayor (11 Nov., 1613), "that a gentleman called to the quality of a
baronet should be afterwards called to be sheriff," and he declared that he would have "no
such precedent."(82)

(M26)

A year after Middleton had been created a baronet the Court of Aldermen voted him (13 Nov.,
1623) a gold chain of the value of 200 marks in recognition of his services in supplying the
city with water, and thereby preventing the spread of disastrous fires.  Only the night before
(12 Nov.) "a very terrible and fearful fire" had broken out, destroying many houses, and among
them that of Sir William Cockaine, in Broad Street, and causing damage to the extent of £40,000
and more;(83) and the Court of Aldermen, in recording their vote, testified to the great danger
which would have threatened the city had not a plentiful supply of water, thanks to Middleton,
been at hand.(84) The chain was set with diamonds and had the City’s arms by way of pendant.
Middleton himself being a goldsmith of repute was allowed to supervise the making of it.(85)

(M27)

All this time the City’s loan to Middleton remained outstanding, and indeed it remained unrepaid
at the time of his death in December, 1631, a circumstance which shows that the greatest engineer
of the age died worse off than many believe. After considerable hesitation the Court of Aldermen
instructed the City Solicitor to recover the money by suing on Middleton’s bond.(86)

(M28)

If other evidence were wanting to show that Middleton died in reduced circumstances there is
the fact that his widow was compelled, soon after her husband’s death, to seek satisfaction
from the City for losses sustained by his estate by means of "many breaches made in the pipes
of water and otherwise upon occasion of divers great fires." After considering the matter for
close upon two years the Common Council at length agreed (2 Oct., 1634) to raise a sum of £1,000
for her by assessment on the wards, but hesitated whether to pay the money to Lady Middleton
for her own use or as executrix only of the will of her late husband, "to be distributed according
to the custome of this Citty whereof he dyed a Freeman." The court added this condition to
the gift, viz.: that the City should be allowed to set up cocks in connection with the New
River pipes in each ward, to be used in cases of fire, in place of cutting the pipes, as had
been the custom on such occasions.(87) In 1635 Middleton’s loan remained still owing to the
City, and the £1,000 promised to his widow was not yet collected. On the 12th May Lady Middleton
petitioned the Court of Aldermen to allow the £1,000 to be accepted in part payment of her
late husband’s debt and she would endeavour forthwith to discharge the remainder. To this the
court acceded.(88)

(M29)

In 1726 the New River Company petitioned the Common Council for a direct conveyance to be made
to the company of all the statutory rights and privileges the City had originally made over
to Middleton. The reason given for this request was that the company found themselves obliged
at the time to prosecute a number of trespassers, and that it had been advised by counsel that
in order to get a verdict in the company’s favour it would have to prove its title, "through
all times and through all the mean conveyances," from the passing of the original Act of Parliament
to the present time. The company represented that such a proceeding would involve enormous
difficulty, but this difficulty could be got over if the City would consent to give an immediate
grant to the company of all that they had formerly conveyed to Middleton, and upon the same
terms. The matter, urged the company, was one that affected the interests of the City, for
unless the offenders were punished the water of the New River would continue to be intercepted
before it reached the city. The petition was referred to the City Lands Committee for consideration.(89)

(M30)

