Christine Chaine, wakeful and nervous, listening to the night sounds, found them far more distracting
than any the day could produce.  Above the breathing of the three children sleeping near her
in the big room, the buzz of a moth-beetle against the ceiling, and the far-off howling of
jackals, she could hear something out in the garden sighing with faint, whistling sighs.  More
disquieting still was a gentle, intermittent tapping on the closed and heavily barred shutters,
inside which the windows stood open, inviting coolness.  She had heard that tapping every one
of the three nights since she came to the farm.

The window stood to the right of her bed, and, by stretching an arm, she could have unbolted
the shutters and looked out, but she would have died rather than do it.  Not that she was a
coward.  But there was some sinister quality in the night noises of this old Karoo farm that
weighed on her courage and paralyzed her senses.  So, instead of stirring, she lay very still
in the darkness, the loud, uncertain beats of her heart adding themselves to all the other
disconcerting sounds.

Mrs. van Cannan had laughed her lazy, liquid laugh when Christine spoke, the first morning
after her arrival, of the tapping.

"It was probably a stray ostrich pecking on your shutters," said the mistress of Blue Aloes.
"You are strange to the Karoo, my dear.  When you have been here a month, you'll take no notice
of night noises."

There was possibly truth in the prophecy, but Christine doubted it. There were also moments
when she doubted being able to last a week out at the farm, to say nothing of a month.  That
was only in the night watches, however; by day, she found it hard to imagine any circumstances
so unpleasant as to induce her to leave the three little van Cannan children, who, even in
so short a time, had managed to twine their fingers and their mops of bronze hair round her
affections.

The tapping began again, soft and insistent.  Christine knew it was not a branch, for she had
taken the trouble to ascertain; and that a stray ostrich should choose her window to peck at
for three nights running seemed fantastic.  Irrelatively, one of the children murmured drowsily
in sleep, and the little human sound braced the girl's nerves.  The sense of loneliness left
her, giving place to courageous resolution. She forgot everything save that she was responsible
for the protection of the children, and determined that the tapping must be investigated, once
and for all.  Just as she was stirring, the soft sighing recommenced close to the shutters,
followed by three clear taps. Christine changed her mind about getting out of bed, but she
leaned toward the window on her elbow, and said, in a low voice that trembled a little:

"Is any one there?"

A whistling whisper answered her:

"Take care of the children."

With the words, a strangely revolting odour came stealing through the shutters.  The girl shrank
back, all her fears returning.  Yet she forced herself to speak again.

"Who is it?  What do you want?"

"Mind the boy--take care of the boy," sobbed the whistling voice, and again the foul odour
stole into the room.  It seemed to Christine the smell of something dead and rotten and old.
She could not bear it. Hatred of it was greater than fear, and, springing from her bed, she
wrestled with the bolts of the shutters.  But when she threw them open there was--nothing!
Darkness stood without like a presence, and seemed to push against the shutters, trying to
enter as she hastily rebarred them.

Something was stirring in the room, too.  With hands that shook, she lit the candle and, by
its gleam, discovered Roderick, the eldest child, sitting up in bed, his red-gold mop all tumbled,
his eyes, full of dreams, fixed on her with a wide stare.  She crossed the room, and knelt
beside him.

"What is it, darling?"

"I thought my nannie was there," he murmured.

"Your nannie?" she echoed, in surprise, knowing that "nannie" was the common name for any black
nurse who tended and waited on them.  "But she is in bed and asleep long ago."

"I don't mean that one.  I mean my nannie what's dead--Sophy."

The girl's backbone grew chill.  She remembered hearing that the children had been always minded
by an educated old Basuto woman called Sophy, who had been a devoted slave to each from birth
up, and because of whose death, a few months back, a series of English governesses had come
and gone at the farm.

She remembered, too, those fluty whispers that resembled no human voice.

"Lie down, darling, and sleep," she said gently.  "I will stay by you."

The boy did not instantly obey.  He had a whim to sit up, watching. There was no fear in his
wide grey eyes, but it was uncanny to see them searching the shadows of the room and returning
always, with a fixed, somnambulistic stare, to the window.  Christine had a fancy that children,
with the memories of another world clinging to them, have a vision of unseen things denied
to older people; and she wondered painfully what was going on in the mind behind this handsome
little face.  At last, she prevailed upon him to lie down, but it was long before he slept.
Even then, she sat on, holding his hand, keeping vigil over him and the two other small sleepers.

They were lovely children.  Each head glowed red-gold upon its pillow, and each little profile
was of a regularity almost classical, with the pure colouring peculiar to red-haired people.
The boy's face was well sprinkled with freckles, but five-year-old Marguerite and little Coral,
of four, who were perfect little imps of mischief, had the dainty snow-pink look of daisies
growing in a meadow with their faces turned up to God.

It was difficult to connect such fragrant, well-tended flowers with the whistling horror out
in the darkness.  More, it was absurd, impossible. The girl decided that the whole thing was
a bad nightmare which she must shake off.  The explanation of it could only be that, half asleep,
she had dreamed she heard the tapping and the whispers, and smelled the evil odour.  Why should
a Thing come and tell her to mind the children?  "Mind the boy."  He was already minded--they
were all happy and well cared for in their own home.  The boy Roderick must have been dreaming,
too, and talking in his sleep.  Thus, Christine's clear English mind rejected the whole thing
as an illusion, resulting from weariness and the new, strange conditions of her life.  Yet
there was an Irish side to her that could not so easily dispose of the matter. She remembered
with what uneasiness her nights had been haunted from the first.  How always, when the dark
fell, she had sensed something uncanny, something unseen and menacing, that she could never
track to its source.  But tonight the sense of hovering evil had taken definite form and direction.
It was at the children that harm was directed; the whistling, sighing words had concerned the
children only.  The girl shivered again at the horrid recollection.

"Yet anything that cares about children cannot be altogether evil," she thought.  That comforted
her a little, but the spell of horror the night had laid upon her was not lifted until dawn
came.  Then she slipped on some clothes and let herself out into the morning air.

The garden that straggled about the farm was composed of a dozen century-old oaks, a sprinkling
of feathery pepper-trees, and many clumps of brilliant-blossomed cacti.  The veranda and outbuildings
were heavily hung with creepers, and great barrels of begonias and geraniums stood about. 
Within a few hundred yards of the house, the green and glowing cultivation stopped as abruptly
as the edges of an oasis in the desert, and the Karoo began--that sweeping, high table-land,
empty of all but brown stones, long white thorns, fantastically shaped clumps of prickly-pear,
bare brown hills, and dried-up rivulets, and that yet is one of the healthiest and, from the
farmer's point of view, wealthiest plateaux in the world.

Between the farm and the far hills arose a curious line of shroudy blue, seeming to hover round
the estate, mystically encircling it, and cutting it off from the rest of the desert.  This
was the century-old hedge of blue aloes which gave the farm its name.  Planted in a huge ring
of many miles' circumference, the great spiked cacti, with leaves thick and flat as hide shields,
and pointed as steel spears, made a barrier against cattle, ostriches, and human beings that
was impassable except by the appointed gaps.  No doubt it had a beauty all its own, but beneath
its fantastic, isolated blooms and leaves of Madonna blue, the gnarled roots sheltered a hundred
varieties of poisonous reptiles and insects.  That is why, in Africa, no one likes blue aloes--they
always harbour death.

Dawn on the Karoo more than compensates for its fearsome nights and torrid noontides.  The
dew, jewelling a thousand spider-webs, the sparkling brightness of the air, the exquisite purity
of the atmosphere, and grandeur of space and loneliness rimmed about by rose-tipped skies and
far forget-me-not hills make a magic to catch the heart in a net from which it never quite escapes.

Christine felt this enchantment as she wandered across the veld, her eyes fixed on the hills
from behind which the sun would presently emerge to fill the land with a clear, pitiless heat
that turned everything curiously grey.  A dam of water reflecting pink cloud-tips lay bright
and still as a sheet of steel.  The fields of lucerne, under the morning light, were softly
turning from black to emerald, and beyond the aloe hedge a native kraal that was scattered
on the side of a hill slowly woke to life.  A dog barked; a wisp of smoke curled between the
thatched huts, and one or two blanketed figures crept from the low doors.  The simple yet secret
lives of these people intrigued Christine deeply.  She knew little of Kafirs, for she had been
in Africa only a few months; but the impassive silence of them behind their watching, alert
eyes always fascinated her.  They said so little before their masters, the whites.  Here, for
instance, was a little colony of fifty or more people living in a kraal close to their employers.
Some of them were grey-haired and had worked for a quarter of a century on the farm--the men
on the land, the women at the house--yet, once their daily tasks were over, none knew what
their lives were when they returned to the straggling village of palisades and low-doored huts.

Musing on these things, Christine turned at last and sauntered slowly homeward.  Everything
was still very quiet, but smoke was rising from the solid farm chimneys, and, rounding the
corners of some large outbuildings, she came suddenly upon more life--feathery, fantastic life
of spindlelegs and fluttering wings.  Scores of baby ostriches, just released from their night
shelter, were racing into the morning light, pirouetting round each other like crazy, gleesome
sprites. Christine stood laughing at their fandangos and the antics of the Kafirs engaged in
herding them.  A man standing near, pipe in mouth, and hands in pockets, observing the same
scene, was astonished that her sad yet passionate face could so change under the spell of laughter.
He had wondered, when he first saw her, why a girl with such ardent eyes should wear such weariness
upon her lips and look so disdainfully at life.  Now he saw that it was a mask she wore and
forgot when she was alone, and he wondered still more what had brought such a girl to be a
governess on a Karoo farm.

But in a moment Christine's face changed, resuming, like a veil over its youth and bloom, the
look of world-weariness.  She bowed slightly to him, with a somewhat cool response to his pleasant
morning greeting, and made haste to resume her walk homeward.

She knew him to be Richard Saltire, the government forest and land expert, who was engaged
in certain experiments on the farm.  He shared a bungalow somewhere on the land with two young
Hollanders who were learning ostrich-farming, and came with them to lunch every day at the
house.  Already, his bold, careless face, with its sunbitten beauty, had separated itself in
her memory from the faces of the other men, for it was a face and personality that could not
leave a woman undisturbed. Incidentally, it had disturbed her in connection with an impression
not altogether agreeable.

One of the first hints Mrs. van Cannan had given the new governess was that the master of Blue
Aloes did not care for any kind of intimacy to exist between the womenfolk of the farm and
the men occupied about it. Christine had been long enough in South Africa to recognize that
this was an odd departure from the general rule of friendliness and equality; but a hint to
the proud has the same efficacy as a word to the wise.  Besides, she had no longing for the
society of men, but rather a wish to forget that she had ever known any.  Life had made a hole
in her heart which she meant to fill if she could, but only with inanimate things and the love
of children.  So that Mr. van Cannan's unsociable restriction, far from being irksome, suited
her perfectly.

Mrs. van Cannan apparently did not apply to herself her husband's injunction, for she was charming
to everybody, and especially to Mr. Saltire.  It was impossible not to notice this, and also
that the fact was not lost upon the gloomy, fanatic glance of the master of the house.

If Mr. Saltire showed bad taste in so openly returning Mrs. van Cannan's interest, it had to
be admitted that it was the form of bad taste that is a law unto itself and takes no thought
of the opinion of others.  Although Africa had spoiled Saltire's complexion, it was evident
that she had never bowed his neck or put humility into his eye or made him desist from looking
over his boldly cut nose as though he had bought the world and did not want it.

But to Christine Chaine it seemed that to cause pain to a man racked with neuritis and jealousy
for the sake of a mild flirtation with a pretty woman was a cruel as well as a dangerous game.
That was one of the reasons why the friendliness of his morning greeting had been met with
such coldness.  She had known heartlessness before in her life, and wished no further acquaintance
with it.  That was the resolution with which she hurried back through the straggling garden,
the whitewashed porch, and massive front door to the nursery.

The children, full of high spirits and wilfulness, were engaged in their morning romp of trying
to evade Meekie, the colored "nannie," whose business it was to bathe them.

They were extraordinarily lovable children, in spite of a certain elf-like disobedience which
possessed them like a disease.  It was quite enough to tell them not to do a thing for them
to be eaten up with a desire to do it forthwith.  Christine had discovered this, and had learned
to manage them in other ways than by direct command.

"Take Roddy--no; take Coral, she is the dirtiest--no, no--Rita!  Rita is the pig!" they shrieked,
as they pranced from bed to bed.  "Bathe yourself, old Meekie--you are the blackest of all."

Christine had her work cut out with them for the next half-hour, but at last they were marshalled,
sweet and shining, to breakfast, where she presided, for their father always took an early
breakfast, and Mrs. van Cannan never rose until eleven.  Afterward, according to custom, they
paid a visit to the latter's room, to wish her good-morning.

Isabel van Cannan was a big, lazy, laughing woman, with sleepy, golden eyes.  She spent hours
in bed, lying, as she did now, amid quantities of pillows, doing absolutely nothing.  She had
told Christine that she was of Spanish extraction, yet she was blond as a Swede.  Her hair,
which had a sort of lamb's-wool fluffiness, lay upon her pillows in two great ropes, yellow
as the pollen of a lily.  She took the children one by one into a sleepy embrace, kissed and
patted their cheeks, admonishing them to be good and obey Miss Chaine in everything.

"Be sure not to go in the sun without your hats," she adjured the two small girls.  "Roddy
doesn't matter so much, but little girls' complexions are very important."

Rita and Coral stuck out their rose-pink chins and exchanged a sparkling glance.  Christine
knew that she would have trouble with them and their hats all day.

"Good-bye," said Mrs. van Cannan, and sank back among her pillows.  As the children scampered
out of the room, she called sharply, "Don't go near the dam, Roddy!"

Christine had heard her say that before, and always with that sharp inflection.

"I never let them go near the dam without me," she said reassuringly. Mrs. van Cannan did not
answer, but a quiver, as if of pain, passed over her closed eyelids.

Outside in the passage, Roderick pressed close to Christine and murmured, with a sort of elfin
sadness:

"Carol was drowned in the dam."

The girl was startled.

"Carol?" she echoed.  "Who was Carol?"

"My big brother--a year older than me," he whispered.  "He is buried out in the graveyard.
I'll take you to see the place if you like.  Let us go now."

Christine collected herself.

"We must go to lessons now, dear.  Later on, you shall show me anything you like."

But from time to time during the morning, sitting in the creeper-trimmed summer-house they
used for a school-room, with her charges busy round her, Christine's thoughts returned to the
strange little revelation.  Roddy, with his red-gold brush of hair, bent over his slate, was
not the first-born, then!  He had been drowned in the dam--that peaceful sheet of walled-in
water that reflected the pink tips of dawn and wherein, at eventide, the cattle waded happily
to drink.  This old Karoo farmhouse had known tragedy, even as she had sensed.  Small wonder
Bernard van Cannan's eyes wore a haunted look! Yet his wife, with her full happy laugh and
golden locks, lying among her pillows, seemed curiously untouched by sorrow.  Except for that
quiver of the eyelids, Christine had never seen her show anything but a contented face to life.

Well--the history of Blue Aloes was a sealed book when the girl came to it, knowing nothing
of its inmates beyond their excellent references as an old Huguenot family.  Now the book,
slowly opening page by page, was revealing strange things.

The luncheon-hour always provided fresh material for a reflective mind. The dining-room was
large and lofty, and the table must have dated back to the early days at the Cape, when every
great family had its scores of retainers and slaves.  It was composed of time-stained teak,
and could have seated dozens, being curiously shaped like a capital E with the middle branch
of the letter missing.  Only one of the branches was now in use, and at this Christine presided
over her small charges, fortunately somewhat aloof from the rest, for they had many odd habits
which it was her business to correct without drawing attention.  Coral did not like pumpkin,
and would keep dropping it on the floor.  Rita loved to kill flies with a spoon.  Roddy's specialty
was sliding bits of meat into the open jaws of a pointer--there were always several under the
table--then briskly passing his plate for more.  Once or twice, looking up from correcting
these idiosyncrasies, the girl found the blue eyes of Richard Saltire fixed upon her as if
in ironic inquiry, and though she felt the slow colour creep into her face, she returned the
glance coldly.  How dare he be curious about her, she thought rather angrily.  Let him confine
himself to making the lids of his hostess droop and her cheeks dimple.  Not that Christine
believed there to be any harm in their open flirtation--Mrs. van Cannan was plainly devoted
to her husband; perhaps it was natural that she should enjoy admiration.  She possessed the
kind of beauty only to be achieved by the woman who makes the care of her appearance an art,
and spends hours in absolute repose of mind and body.  Her face had not a line in it of strain
or sorrow.  Faint pink tinted her cheeks.  Her pink-linen gown, open in a low V, showed the
perfect contour and creaminess of her breast.  The restless, adoring eyes of her husband came
back to her always with that glance, vigilant and sombre, that was peculiar to them.

With some assumption of state, he always sat in the centre of the body of the table, with his
wife beside him.  Saltire sat at her right, and Saxby, the overseer, was placed beside his
host.  Opposite them, on the other side of the table, were the two young Hollanders and a cheerful
Scotch colonial called McNeil.

These six men were expected to take both luncheon and dinner at the farm, but only the Hollanders
turned up in the evening, perhaps because the excellence of the fare was outbalanced by the
long prayers and hymns with which the meal was prefaced and ended.  Even at lunch-time, there
was a Bible at the host's elbow, from which he read a number of texts before pronouncing a
long grace, while the visitors listened with expressions that varied from embarrassment to
impatience.  Richard Saltire always looked frankly bored, but sometimes he and Mrs. van Cannan
exchanged a smile of sympathy at having to listen to the maledictions of Job while the roast
was getting cold.  Hymns for lunch were mercifully omitted.  Bernard van Cannan, though plainly
a religious fanatic, was also the owner of one of the wealthiest farms in the colony, and no
doubt he realized that the working-hours of his employees might be more profitably engaged
than by chanting hymns.

Saxby, the overseer, a dark, burly man of unusual height, was marked by the thick lips and
general fulness of countenance that suggests to those who have lived long enough in Africa
"a touch of colour."  He had the soft voice, too, and full, deep laugh of those who have a
dash of native blood in their veins.  His manner was melancholy, though charming, and he imposed
his society upon no man, but attended strictly to his business.  He was the best manager the
farm had ever known. After being there for less than a year, he had so improved the stock and
the land that Bernard van Cannan looked upon him as a little god, and his word was law on the
farm.  His private history, a rather sad one, Christine had already heard from Mrs. van Cannan.
It appeared that his wife had been terribly disfigured in a fire and was not only a semi-invalid
but a victim of melancholia.  She lived with him in an isolated bungalow some way off, and
he did everything for her with his own hands as she shrank from being seen by any one, and
particularly detested natives.  While her husband was away at his duties, she remained locked
in the bungalow, inaccessible to any one save Mrs. van Cannan, who sometimes went to sit with her.

"But I can't bear to go often," Isabel van Cannan told Miss Chaine. "She depresses me so terribly,
and what good can I do her, poor soul?"

Unnecessary for her to add that she hated being depressed.  It was bad for the complexion,
she laughed.  Laughter was never far from her lips. But, at the moment, there really seemed
some trace of the morning's pain on her as she looked at her husband.

"Bernard's shoulder is giving him so much trouble," she said appealingly to Saltire.  "He wants
to go to East London to see his old specialist, but I don't believe in that man.  I think rest
in bed is the cure for all ills.  Don't you agree with me, Mr. Saltire?"

"Bed has its uses no doubt," laughed Saltire, with the cheerful carelessness of the thoroughly
healthy man, "but a change of scene is better sometimes, for some people."

Van Cannan, his shoulder and left eye twitching perpetually, turned a searching gaze upon the
deeply tanned face of the forestry expert, as though suspecting some double meaning in the
words.  Saltire bore the scrutiny undisturbed.  Immaculate in white linens, his handsome fairish
head wearing a perpetually well-groomed look, perhaps by reason of a bullet which, during the
Boer War, had skimmed straight through his hair, leaving a perfect parting in the centre, he
was a striking contrast to the haggard master of the house, who muttered morosely:

"There is some Latin saying--isn't there?--about people 'changing their skies but not their
dispositions.'"

"Indisposition is a different matter," remarked Saxby sagely, "and with neuritis it is a mistake
to let the pain get too near the heart. I think you ought to see a doctor, Mr. van Cannan,
but East London is a long way off.  Why not call in the district man?"

"He would prescribe a bottle of pink water and charge me a couple of pounds for it.  I need
better treatment than that.  I could not even ride this morning--had to leave my horse and
walk home.  The pain was vile."

Saxby looked at him sympathetically.

"Well, try a couple of weeks' rest in bed, as Mrs. van Cannan suggests. You know that I can
keep things going all right."

"And Mr. Saltire will continue to turn the prickly-pears into ogres and hags," said his wife,
with her childlike smile.  "When you get up again, he will have a whole army of shrivelled
monsters ready for you."

It is true that this was Richard Saltire's business on the farm--to rid the land of that bane
and pest of the Karoo, the prickly-pear cactus. The new governmental experiment was the only
one, so far, that had shown any good results in getting rid of the pest.  It consisted in inoculating
each bush with certain poisons, which, when they entered the sap of the plant, shrivelled and
withered it to the core, making its large, pale, flapping hands drop off as though smitten
by leprosy, and causing the whole bush to assume a staggering, menacing attitude that was immensely
startling and grotesque.  Many of the natives were now afraid to go about on the farm after
dusk.  They said the prickly-pears threatened them, even ran after them, intent on revenge.

Christine had heard Mr. van Cannan say that his father knew the man whose grandfather was the
first Dutchman to introduce the prickly-pear into the Karoo.  It was a great treasure then,
being looked upon as good fodder for beast and ostrich in time of drought, and the boy used
to be beaten if he did not properly water the leaves which were being laboriously preserved
on the great trek into the desert. Unfortunately, the preservation had been so complete that
it was now the ruin of many a fine Karoo estate, springing up everywhere, smothering other
growths and destroying, with its tiny multitudinous thorns, the stomachs of the cattle, who
love too much its watery leaves.  Mr. van Cannan was one of the farmers rich enough to take
drastic steps to save his farm.  Saltire was doing it for him very thoroughly and efficiently.

"How much longer do you expect to be?" asked van Cannan.

"Oh, another three weeks ought to finish the job," said Saltire.  "But, as you know, they are
most persistent things.  When you think they are done for, you find them sprouting green again
below the wound, and have to give them another dose."

"Three weeks!" muttered van Cannan, with moody eyes.  He looked to Christine like a man suffering
with sickness of the soul.  Everyone supposed the rest-cure definitely settled on, but, with
the contrariness of an ailing child, he suddenly announced determinedly, "I shall leave for
East London this afternoon."

The children were called to kiss him good-bye, and they clustered round him.

"Take care of them for me," he said, with a piercing wistfulness, to Christine.  "Take care
of my boy."

Then he turned brusquely to Saxby, making arrangements for a mule-cart to be ready at two o'clock
to drive him into Cradock, the nearest large town, where he would have to spend the night before
proceeding farther by rail.

Christine could not but be struck by the words he had used, and mused over them wonderingly
while she tucked Rita and Coral under their mosquito-curtains.  It was her habit to spend this
hour with Roddy and a story-book.  But today he hovered restlessly, showing no inclination
to settle down, and seeming full of some suppressed excitement.  At last, he whispered in her ear:

"Don't forget where you said you would come with me--to see Carol and the others."  Christine
wondered if old Sophy was one of the others, and, even in the noontide heat, she felt a chill.

"All right, Roddy," she agreed slowly.  "Wait till I get a sunshade, though.  It is dreadfully
hot."

She shaded him as much as herself while they threaded their way through the shrubs that seemed
to simmer in the grey-brown heat.

Almost every South African farm has its private cemetery.  It is the custom to bury the dead
where they have lived, and often the graveyard is in the shadiest corner of the garden, where
the women sit to sew, the men bring their pipes, and children spread their playthings upon
the flat, roughly hewn tombstones.

At Blue Aloes, the place of the dead was hidden far from the haunts of the living, but the
narrow, uncertain path led to it at last--a bare, sun-bleached spot, secluded but unshaded
by a gaudy-blossomed hedge of cactus.  A straight, single line of graves, less than a dozen
in number, lay blistering in the sunshine.  Some were marked with slabs of lime-worn  stone,
upon whose faded lettering little green rock-lizards were disporting themselves.  The last
two in the line had white marble crosses at their heads, each bearing a name in black letters,
and a date.  The preceding one, too, was fairly new, with the earth heaped in still unbroken
lumps upon it, but it bore no distinguishing mark of any kind.  Death appeared to have been
fairly busy in recent times at Blue Aloes.  The date on the end grave was no older than six months.

Little Bernard Quentin van Cannan lay there, sleeping too soon at the age of three and a half.
Roddy pronounced his brief but sufficiently eloquent epitaph.

"He was Coral's twin.  A tarantula bit him--one of the awful big poisonous ones out of the
aloe hedge."

The next cross registered the resting-place of Carol Quentin van Cannan--drowned a year back,
at the age of nine.  Christine's sad gaze travelled to the third and unmarked mound.

"Is that Sophy's grave?" she asked softly, for shrivelling on the lumps of earth lay a bunch
of poppies that she had seen Roddy gathering the day before, and now remembered wondering where
he had disappeared to afterward.  Roddy did not answer.  He was staring before him with manful
eyes that winked rapidly but shed no tears.  His lips were pursed up as if to whistle, yet
made no sound.  At the sight of him and the withered poppies in the place where never a flower
of memory blossomed, hot tears surged to the girl's eyes.  It was wistful to think of a child
remembering when all others forgot.

"No one ever comes here but me," he said, at last.

Christine got rid of her tears by turning her back on him and pressing them away with her fingers,
for she knew that emotion embarrasses and pains children, and she wanted to help this small,
brave man, not hurt him.

"You and I will come here often, Roddy.  We will turn it into a garden, and make it blossom
like the rose--shall we?"

"Yes, yes!" he cried eagerly.  "'Blossom like the rose'--that comes out of the Bible!  I have
heard daddy read it.  But we must not talk about it to mamma.  It makes her too sad to come
here, or even talk about it. Mamma doesn't like sad things."

Suddenly, the strange quietude of the place was invaded by the sound of voices.  They were
far-off voices, but both the girl and the child started as though caught in some forbidden
act, and instinctively took hands.  A moment later they were hurrying away from the lonely
spot, back by the way they had come.  Half-way home they came upon Richard Saltire and the
squad of Kafirs who carried his implements and liquids. Theirs were the voices that had been
heard.  Work had begun on the territory so thickly sewn with prickly-pears that lay between
farm and cemetery.

Saltire, with sleeves rolled up, was operating with a syringe upon the trunk of a giant bush,
but he turned round to throw a smile to Roddy.

"Hello, Rod!"

"Hello, Dick!" was the blithe response.  "Gr-r-r!  You giving it to that old bush?"

"Rather!  He's getting it where the chicken got the ax.  Like to have a go at him?"

"Oh--oh--yes!"

Roddy delightedly grasped the syringe, and was instructed how to fill and plunge it into the
green, dropsical flesh of the plant.  The Kafirs stood looking on with grave, imperturbable
faces.  Christine sat down on a rock and, from the rosy shadow of her parasol, observed the
pair. She was astonished at this revelation of intimacy.  Saltire's satirical blue eyes were
full of warm affection as he looked at the boy, and Roddy's manner toward him contained a loving
familiarity and trust she had never seen him exhibit to any one.  It was interesting, too,
to watch the man's fine, capable hands manipulating his instruments and his quick eye searching
each bush to select a vulnerable spot for the virus of death.  His movements had the grace
and energy of one whose every muscle is trained by service and in perfect condition.  Only
men who hail from cold climates retain this characteristic in Africa. Those born in its disintegrating
heats are usually overtaken in the early thirties by physical weariness or, as some choose
to call it, "slackness" that only fine moral training can overcome.

He was good to look at, too, this man in spotless white clothes, the blueness of his eyes throwing
up the clear tan of his face, his burnished hair lying close to his head.  Christine thought
rather sadly that the presence on the farm of any one so sane and fearless-looking would have
been a great comfort to her, if only he had not been one of the people whose ways troubled
her most.

It was with difficulty that she at last got Roddy away, he was so evidently under the forestry
man's spell.  Almost she felt that spell herself when he began talking to her, looking deep
into her eyes while he explained his work; but suddenly it seemed to her that those blue eyes
were explaining something quite different, and, flushing furiously, she made haste to take
Roddy's hand and end the interview by walking away.

There was considerable trouble during the afternoon with Rita and Coral.  If Christine turned
her back for a moment, they flew out into the sunshine, hatless, disporting themselves like
baby ostriches. Reproaches were received with trills of laughter, warnings of punishment with
trusting, happy eyes.

When, at last, Christine had them safely absorbed in a table-game, it was to realize that Roddy
had suddenly disappeared.  Calling Meekie to take charge of the little girls, she hastened,
with beating heart, in search of the boy.  Instinct took her in the direction of the dam, and
she caught him up just as he had reached its brink.  He looked at her brightly, no sign of
shamefacedness or sulkiness on him, but would give no further explanation than that he "only
wanted to peep in."

"But, Roddy, how could you be so disobedient, dear?  And you remember what your mother said
this morning?"

"Yes, I remember; but I did not promise.  If I had promised, I would not have gone."

"Well, will you promise me, darling?"

But at that he broke away from her and ran toward the house, singing, "Just a little peep-in--just
a little peep-in."

She felt more than slightly dispirited.  There were three bad nights behind her, and the day
had been particularly tiring.  Though young and energetic, and with an extraordinary sense
of love and responsibility toward these naughty, attractive children, she wondered, for a weary
moment, whether she could stand the racket.  The work of governessing was new to her.  Any
work was new to her, and governessing in Africa is as different to governessing in England
(which is bad enough) as plowing cultivated land is to opening up virgin soil.  But life had
unexpectedly laid the burden of work upon Christine Chaine, and having put her hand to the
plow, she did not mean to turn back.  Only, for once, she was glad when nightfall brought the
hour when she could leave her charges for a while in someone else's care.

Once the children were safely in bed, it was Meekie's task to sit beside them until Christine
had dined and rested, and chose to come to bed.  Meekie belonged to the kraal people, but she
had white blood in her, like so many natives, and spoke very good English.

That all the men on the farm should turn up to dinner that evening did not seem to Christine
so much a cause for surprise as for contempt.  In her short but not too happy experience of
life, she had, like a certain great American philosopher, discovered that the game of life
is not always "played square" when there is a woman in it.  Of course, it was comprehensible
that all men liked a good dinner, especially when it was not marred by hymns and long prayers,
fervent to the point of fanaticism.  Equally, of course, the pretty hostess, with a charming
word of welcome for everyone, was an attraction in herself.  But, somehow, it sickened the
clear heart of Christine Chaine to see this jubilant gathering round a dinner table that was
usually deserted, and from which the host had just departed, a sick and broken man.  She thought
the proceedings more worthy of a lot of heartless schoolboys delighting in a master's absence
than of decent, honest men.

And whatever she thought of the Hollanders and colonials, whose traditions were unknown to
her, it was certain that her scorn was redoubled for the one man she knew to be of her own
class and land.

Yet there he sat at the elbow of his hostess, calm and smiling, no whit removed from his usual
self-contained and arrogant self.  Christine gave him one long look that seemed to turn her
violet eyes black; then she looked no more his way.  She could not have told why she hated
this action in him so bitterly.  Perhaps she felt that he was worthy of higher things, but,
if questioned, she would probably have laid it at the door of caste and country.  All that
she knew, for a poignant moment, was an intense longing to strike the smile from his lips with
anything to hand--a wine-glass, a bowl, a knife.

Mercifully, the moment passed, and all that most of them saw was a young girl who had come
late to dinner--a girl with a rather radiant skin, purply black hair that branched away from
her face as though with a life of its own, and violet eyes that, after one swordlike glance
all round, were hidden under a line of heavy lashes.  The black-velvet dinner gown she wore,
simple to austerity, had just a faint rim of tulle at the edges against her skin.  Only an
artist or connoisseur would have observed the milkiness of that skin and the perfect lines
under the sombre velvet.  Small wonder that most eyes turned to the lady who tonight took the
place of ceremony at the table, and who, as always, was arrayed in the delicate laces and pinkish
tints that seemed to call to notice the gold of the hair, the rose of her cheek, and the golden-brown
shadows of her eyes.

The little cloud of sadness and loss that hovered over her, yet never descended, was like the
rain-cloud that sometimes threatens a June day. It seemed everyone's business to drive that
cloud away, and everyone but Christine applied themselves nobly to the task.  At the end of
the long dinner, all were so properly employed in this manner that apparently no one noticed
the departure of the silent, scornful-lipped governess, and she was able to make her exit without
notice or remonstrance.

For a little while she walked up and down in the garden under the rays of a new and early-retiring
slip of moon.  Then, with a pain at her heart that she had hoped it was for ever out of the
power of life to deal her, she retired to the nursery, relieved the coloured nurse from her
watch, and went quietly to bed.

For fully an hour afterward she heard the echo of laughter and voices in the front veranda--sometimes
the chink of glasses.  Later, Mrs. van Cannan sang and played waltz-music to them in the drawing-room.
At last the men departed, one by one.  Mrs. van Cannan was heard calling sharply for her night
lemonade and someone to unlace her frock.  Next, the servants shuffled softly homeward through
the dusk.  The old Cape cook, who had quarters somewhere near the kitchen, went the rounds,
locking up.  The clang of the iron bar falling into its bracket across the great front door
echoed through the house.  Then all was still.

In the sinister, brooding peace of the desert that ensued, the night noises presently began
to make themselves heard.

A cricket somewhere in the house set up a sprightly cheeping.  Far, far away, an animal wailed,
and a jackal distressfully called to its mate. Then something laughed terribly--rocking, hollow
laughter--it might have been a hyena.

Christine Chaine was a Catholic.  She crossed herself in the darkness and softly repeated some
of the prayers whose cadences and noble phrases seem to hold power to hush the soul into peace.
She hoped at this time they would hush her mind into sleep, but for a long while many impressions
of the day haunted her.  Sometimes she saw the twitching shoulders and tormented gaze of a
sick man, then the smiling blond-and-pink beauty of a woman.  Sometimes a pair of blue eyes,
with riddles in them that she would not read, held her; then graves--graves in a long arid
line.  At last she slept, the sleep of weariness that mercifully falls upon the strong and
healthy like a weight, blotting out consciousness.

Then--taps on the shutter, and words:

"Mind the boy--take care of the boy!"

They were soft taps and whispered words, but, like the torment of dropping water, they had
their effect at last.  The girl sat up in bed again, her fingers pressed to her temples, her
eyes staring, listening, listening.  Yes--they were the same eternal taps and words.  With
the dull desperation of fatigue, she got out of bed and approached the window.

"Who are you?  What are you?  Tell me what to do," she said quietly.

In the long silence that followed, there was only one answer--the subtle odour of rottenness
stole into the room.

She never knew afterward what possessed her to take the course she did. Probably if she had
not gone to sleep in the strength and peace of prayers, and awakened with the protection of
them woven about her, she would have taken no course at all.  As it was, she knew she had got
to do something to solve the mystery of this warning.  It did not occur to her to get out of
the window.  The right thing seemed to be to make her way very quietly through the house, let
herself out by the front door, and come round to the window where the warning thing waited.
It would not hurt her, she knew.  It was a hateful Thing, but that its intentions were benevolent
was a conclusion that had forced itself upon her soul.

Groping for her dressing-gown, she found it and put it on without striking a light.  And though
she carried a box of matches in her hand, she believed she would not need them, for the way
was perfectly simple and well known to her--a long passage that led to the dining-room, at
one end of which was the great, iron-barred front door.

Her feet and hands found the way quietly, and she reached the front door without incident,
but when she felt for the great bar whose strident clanging in its bracket had been a last
signal of night within the house, her hand encountered nothing.  Wonderingly she slid her fingers
up and down the polished oak.  At last she realized that the bar hung loose; the door was merely
on the latch.  Someone beside herself who dwelt within the house had business without its portals
that night and was still abroad!

For the first time, the girl's purpose faltered.  A slow fear pierced her, and her feet refused
to take her farther.  The thought flashed into her mind that, if she passed the door, she might
find herself locked out, with the night--and she knew not what beside.

Even as she stood there hesitating, trying to collect her courage, a sound--the soft tread
of a foot on gravel--told her that some other being was close by.  There came the same stealthy
tread in the porch. Swiftly she shrank back into the embrasure of one of the long windows,
thankful for the green blinds against which her dark dressing-gown would give no sign.  With
one full sleeve, she shrouded her face.  She had suddenly become terribly aware of being nothing
but a slight girl in a nightgown and wrap, with bare feet thrust into straw slippers. She remembered
stories she had heard of struggles in the darkness with powerful natives, and her heart turned
to water.

It seemed to her the most horrible moment of her life while she stood shrinking there in the
shadow, listening to the door open and close, the bar being replaced, the quiet, regular breathing
of that other person.  Whoever it was, his movements were calm and undisturbed, but Christine
could see nothing, only a large, dim outline that moved sure-footedly across the room, opened
another door on the far side, closed it, and was gone.

There were so many other doors, so many other passages.  All Christine could be certain of
and thankful for was that it was not her door and her passage that had swallowed up the mysterious
night-walker.  It was some little time before she collected sufficient fortitude to creep back
whence she had come, her plan unfulfilled, her courage melted. She was bitterly ashamed, yet
felt as if she had escaped from some great evil.  Once in the nursery, she locked the door,
lighted a candle, and, after she had looked to ascertain that the children were sleeping soundly,
she opened her dressing-case and took out a little box of cachets that had been prescribed
for her a year before when bitter trouble had stolen sleep for many a night.  She felt, and
with some reason, that this was an occasion when it would not be too cowardly to resort to
artificial means of restoring her nerves by sleep.  For though fright and surprise had bereft
her, for the time being, of her nerve, her firm spirit was neither beaten nor cowed.  She meant
to see this thing through, and her last waking thought was a murmured prayer for help to steel
her heart against terrors that walked by night, and to resist to the utmost any menace of evil
that should approach the little children in her charge.

PART II

There followed some tranquil days of which nothing broke the peaceful monotony.  The children
were extraordinarily tractable, perhaps because Mrs. van Cannan seemed too preoccupied to lay
any injunctions upon them.  True, Roddy made one of his mysterious disappearances, but it was
not long before Christine, hard on his heels, discovered him emerging from an outhouse, where
she later assured herself that he could have come to no great harm, for it was merely a big
barn stacked with grain and forage, and a number of old packing cases.  Nothing there to account
for the expression he wore--that same suggestion of tears fiercely restrained which she had
noticed when they were looking at the unmarked grave in the cemetery.  It wrung her heart to
see his young mouth pursed up to whistle a tune that would not come, the look of longing in
eyes where only happiness and the divine contentment of childhood should dwell; but the boy
volunteered no information, and she did not press him.  She wanted his confidence, not to have
him regard her as a sort of jailer.

Every day, in the cool of the early morning, while the others were still sleeping, he and she
visited the graveyard, starting the good work of making it blossom like the rose, as Christine
had promised. They planted lilies and geraniums over the little brothers, and edged the lonely,
unmarked grave with a species of curly-leaved box common to that part of the country and which
grew rapidly.  It was Roddy's fancy, too, to cover this grave with portulaca--a little plant
bearing starry flowers of vivid hues that live for a day only.  He chose plants that bore only
scarlet and golden blossoms.

"She liked those two colours," he told Christine, smiling.  "She said that when we were babies
we were all like that--very red, with yellowy golden hair."

Christine, looking at the bright head and the fresh cheeks so rare in a South African child,
readily understood.  But she could not help wondering, as before, at the loyal little heart
that remembered so well the words and fancies of a dead woman--when all others forgot!

Nearly always on returning from these morning excursions they met Saltire, rapidly wreaking
destruction upon the district.  Already, scores of the prickly-pears through which they must
wend their way were assuming the staggering attitude characteristic of them as the sap dried
and they died of their wounds.  Sometimes, one side of a bush would shrivel first, causing
it to double up like a creature agonizing. Some crouched like strange beasts watching to spring.
Others thrust themselves ominously forward with projected arms, as if ready to grapple.  Some
brandished their flat leaves as the painter Wiertz, in his famous picture of Napoleon in Hell,
made wives and mothers brandish their menacing fists at the man who had robbed them of their
loved ones.  All wore a look that suggested both agony and revenge. Christine understood, at
last, why the Kafirs hated to go about the land after dark, averring that the afflicted bushes
threatened and chased them.  She began herself to experience an inexplicable feeling of relief,
as though at the overcoming of an enemy, when a great spire of smoke betokened the final uprooting
and burning of a clump of bush. For fire was the ultimate element used to transform the pest
from a malignant into a beneficent factor, and, as aromatic ash, it became of service to the
land it had ruined so long.  Almost, the process seemed an exposition of Job's words: "When
thou hast tried me with fire, I shall come forth as gold."

It was a curious thing how the "personality" of the bushes appeared to affect them all.  Saltire
at his work gave the impression of a fighter concentrating on the defeat of an enemy.  Roddy
would dance for joy before each staggering bush.  The impassivity of the natives departed from
them when they stood about the funeral pyres, and clapping of hands and warlike chanting went
heavenward with the smoke.  Christine and Roddy often lingered to watch these rejoicings; indeed,
it was impossible at any time to get the boy past Saltire and his gang without a halt.  The
English girl, while standing somewhat aloof, would nevertheless not conceal from herself the
interest she felt in the forestry man's remarks, not only on the common enemy, but his work
in general.

"They have a great will to live, Roddy--much stronger than you and I, because we dissipate
our will in so many directions.  I've met this determination before in growing things, though.
There are plants in the African jungle that you have to track and trail like wild beasts and
do murder upon before they will die.  And this old prickly-pear is of the same family.  If
a bit of leaf can break off and fly past you, it hides itself behind a stone, hastily puts
roots into the ground, and grows into a bush before you can say 'Jack Robinson.'  Your farm
will be a splendid place when we've got rid of all these and replaced them with the spineless
plant.  Prickly-pear without spines is a perfect food for cattle and ostriches in this climate."

Thus he talked to Roddy, as if the latter were already a man and in possession of his heritage--the
wide lands of Blue Aloes; but always while he talked, he looked at and considered the girl
who stood aloof, wearing her air of world-weariness like a veil over the youth and bloom of her.

And she, on her side, was considering and reading him, too.  She liked him better, because,
since that first night of Mr. van Cannan's departure, he had absented himself from the dinner-table.
That showed some glimmer of grace in him.  Still, there was far too much arrogance in his manner,
she thought, and decided that he had probably been spoiled by too facile women.  Nothing blunts
the fine spiritual side of a man's character so rapidly as association with women of low ideals.
The romance of her own life had been split upon that rock.  She had known what it was to stand
by and see the man she loved with all the pure idealism of youth wrecked by the cheap wiles
of a high-born woman with a second-rate soul.  Perhaps her misfortune had sharpened her vision
for this defect in men.  Certainly, it had tainted her outlook with disdain.  She sometimes
felt, as Pater wrote of Mona Lisa, that "she had looked upon all the world, and her eyelids
were a little weary."  At any rate, when she found Dick Saltire's blue eyes looking into hers
so straightly and significantly that it almost seemed as if an arrow came glancing from him
to her, she merely told herself, with an inward-smiling bitterness, that no doubt the same
phenomenon occurred when he spoke to Mrs. van Cannan.

Some days after the departure of the master of the farm for the coast, the post-bag arrived
from Cradock, and, as Mrs. van Cannan was still sleeping, it fell to Christine, as it had sometimes
done before, to distribute the mail.  Among her own large batch of home letters it was so unusual
to find a South African one that she opened it immediately, and was astonished to discover
it to be from Bernard van Cannan.  It had been written from Cradock on the evening of the day
he left the farm.

"DEAR MISS CHAINE:

"I want once more to commend to you the very special care of my children while I am away. 
My wife, not being very strong, is unable to see as much of them as she would wish, and I do
not like her to be worried.  But there are many dangers on a farm, and I have already, by most
unhappy chance, lost two young sons.  Both deaths occurred during absences of mine and were
the result of accident, though, at the time, they were surrounded by every loving care and
security.  Perhaps, therefore, you will understand the kind of superstitious apprehension I
feel about Roderick, who is the last and only one left to come after me in the old place. 
He has always needed special looking-after, being extremely curious and impulsive while, at
the same time, nervous and reticent.

"Perhaps it is only my illness that makes me full of fears, but I can assure you that had it
not been for the great confidence you have inspired in me from the first, I should not have
left the farm, so anxious do I continually feel about the welfare of my third and last son.
However, I trust in God I shall be back soon, better in health, to find that all is well.

"Do not worry my dear wife with this matter.  She is of a disposition that cannot cope with
sorrow and trouble, and I would not for the world cloud her happy outlook with my morbid fancies.
Keep my confidence, and remember that I rely on you with all my heart to guard my little ones.

"Sincerely yours,

"BERNARD VAN CANNAN.

"P. S.--I append my last London address, and if I am detained for any time, I shall be glad
to hear from you."

A vision of the gloomy-eyed man, twitching with pain and nerves, rose up before her eyes as
she folded the letter, and she resolved to write to him at once, allaying his fears as much
as possible by an assurance of her devotion.  She was sitting in the summer-house at the time,
the children beside her, bent over their morning lessons.  Through the creeper-framed doorway,
she could see the walls and veranda of the old farm, glaring white in the fierce sunlight,
but with every line expressing such harmony as only the old Dutch architects seem to have had
the secret of putting into the building of South African homesteads.  Before the front door
stood three gnarled oaks, which yet bore the marks of chains used by the early van Cannans
to fasten up the cattle at night, for fear of the hostile Kafirs who at set of sun came creeping
over the kopjes.  Scores of fierce, man-eating dogs were kept to deal with the marauders, and
there were still loopholes in the white walls from which those within had watched and defended.

But those days were long past.  Nothing now in the gracious building, with its shady stoeps
and high, red roof, toned melodiously by age, to betoken battle, murder, and sudden death.
It seemed strange that sinister forebodings should attach themselves in any mind to such harmony
of form and colour.  Yet Christine held in her hand the very proof of such thoughts, and, what
was more, knew herself to be obsessed by them when darkness took the land.  For a moment even
now, looking out at the brilliant sunshine, she was conscious of a falter in her soul, a moment
of horrible loneliness, a groping-out for some human being stronger than herself of whom to
take counsel.  A thought of Saltire flashed across her.  He looked strong and sane, kind and
chivalrous.  But could he be trusted?  Had she not already learned in the bitter school of
life that "Ye have no friend but resolution!"

A shadow fell across the doorway.  It was Saxby, the manager.  He gave her his pleasant, melancholy
smile.

"I wonder if Mrs. van Cannan is up yet," he said, in his full, rich voice.  "There are one
or two farm matters I want to consult her about."

Christine looked at the watch on her wrist and saw that it was past eleven.

"Oh, I should think so, Mr. Saxby.  The closing of all the shutters is usually a sign that
she is up and about."

It is, in fact, a practice in all Karoo houses to close every window and shutter at about ten
o'clock each morning, not throwing them open again until sunset.  This keeps the interiors
extraordinarily cool, and, as the walls are usually whitewashed, there is plenty of light.

"I expect I shall find her in the drawing-room," Saxby remarked, and passed on.  Christine
saw him leave again about half an hour later. Then the sound of waltz-music within the closed
house told that Mrs. van Cannan was beguiling away the rest of the long, hot morning in a favourite
fashion.  At noon, the heat, as usual, made the summer-house untenable, and its occupants were
driven indoors.

Lunch introduced the only excitement the quiet monotony of the day ever offered, when the men
came filing into the soft gloom of the dining-room, bringing with them a suggestion of a world
of work that still went on its way, come rain, come shine.  All of them took advantage of the
custom of the climate to appear coatless.  Indeed, the fashion of shirts was sometimes so décolletée
as to be slightly embarrassing to English eyes.  Only Saltire paid the company the compliment
of unrolling his sleeves, buttoning the top button of his shirt, and assuming a tie for the
occasion.

Everyone seemed of opinion that the summer rains were brewing and that was the reason of the
insufferable heat.

"We'll have a couple of days of this," prophesied Andrew McNeil, "then down it will come with
a vengeance."

"The land wants it, of course, but it will be a confounded nuisance to me," remarked the forestry
expert.

"Oh, Mr. Saltire, you are insatiable in your work of murder," smiled his hostess.  "Are you
as merciless in all your dealings?"  She looked at him with provoking eyes.  Christine hardened
herself to hear an answer in the same vein, but was as agreeably relieved as surprised.

"I want to get the work done," said Saltire briefly.

"I never knew any one so anxious to leave us before," grumbled Mrs. van Cannan prettily.  "You
must be terribly bored with us all."

"Never less in my life."

The answer was so impersonal as to be almost a sign of boredom in itself, and Mrs. van Cannan,
little accustomed to have her charming advances met in such fashion, turned away with a pucker
on her brow to a more grateful audience.  At the same moment, an irresistible impulse drew
Christine's glance to Saltire in time to receive one of those straight, significant looks that
indescribably disturbed her.  Nothing there of the impersonality his words had betrayed!  It
was a clear message from a man to a woman--one of those messages that only very strong-willed
people who know what they want have the frankness, perhaps the boldness, to send.  Even an
indifferent woman would have been stirred to a knowledge of dangerous sweetness, and she knew
that she had never been quite indifferent to the personal magnetism of Dick Saltire.  As it
was, she was shaken to the very soul of her.  For a moment, she had the curious illusion that
she had never lived before, never had been happy or unhappy, was safe at last in some sure,
lovely harbour from all the hurts of the world.  It was strange in the midst of everyday happenings,
with the talk and clatter of a meal going on, to be swept overwhelmingly away like that to
a far place where only two people dwelt--she and the man who looked at her.  And before the
illusion was past, she had returned a message to him.  She did not know what was in her look,
but she knew what was in her heart.

Almost immediately it was time to take the children and go.  Mrs. van Cannan delayed them for
a moment, giving some directions for the afternoon.  If Christine could have seen herself with
the children clinging to her, she would have been surprised that she could appear so beautiful.
Her grace of carriage and well-bred face had always been remarkable, but gone were disdain
and weariness from her.  She passed out of the room without looking again at Dick Saltire,
though he rose, as always, to open the door for her.

An afternoon of such brazen heat followed that it was well to be within the shelter of the
shuttered house.  But outside, in the turmoil of dust and glare, the work of the farm went
on as usual.  Christine pictured Saltire at his implacable task, serene in spite of dust and
blaze, with the quality of resolution in his every movement that characterized him, the quality
he had power to put into his eyes and throw across a room to her.  The remembrance of his glance
sent her pale, even now in the quiet house.  Only a strong man, sure of himself and with the
courage of his wishes, would dare put such a message into his eyes, would dare call boldly
and silently to a woman that she was his raison d'être, that, because of her, the dulness and
monotony of life had never bored him less, that he had found her, that she must take of and
give to him.  She knew now that he had been telling her these things ever since they had met,
but that she had turned from the knowledge, until, at last, in an unguarded moment, it had
reached and overwhelmed her, flooding her soul with passionate joy, yet filling her with a
peace and security she had never known, either in the old farmhouse or since the long-ago day
when all her brave castles of youth and love had crashed down into the dust.  Gone now was
unbelief, and disdain, and fear of terror that stalked by night; a rock was at her back, there
was a hand to hold in the blackest darkness.  Never any more need she feel fear and spiritual
loneliness.  Withal, there was the passionate joy of adventure, of exploration in sweet, unknown
lands of the heart, the launching of a boat upon a sea of dreams.  Life sang to Christine Chaine
like a nightingale under the stars.

How tenderly and patiently she beguiled the heat-weary children throughout that long afternoon!
There was no feeling of haste upon her.  She knew that sweetness was travelling her way, that
"what is for thee, gravitates toward thee," and is vain to seek before the appointed hour.
It might come as even-song to a seemingly endless day, or dawn following a fearsome night.
But it was coming.  That was all that mattered!

The directions Mrs. van Cannan had given, as they left the luncheon, were to the effect that,
when the siesta hour was over, the children were to have possession of the drawing-room until
it was cool enough for them to go for their accustomed walk.  This plan was to continue as
long as the hot weather lasted.

"I think it is not very healthy for any of you," she said amiably, "to stick all day in a room
you have to sleep in at night."

Christine could not help being surprised at her giving up the coolest and quietest room in
the house, and one that had hitherto been forbidden ground to the children.  However, here
they were, installed among gaily cretonned furniture, the little girls dashing about like squirrels
in a strange cage, Roddy, apparently more at home, prowling softly around, examining things
with a reverent yet familiar air.

"I remember when we used to come here every day," said Rita suddenly, and stood stock-still
with concentrated eyes, like one trying to catch the memory of a dream.  "When was it, Roddy?"

He looked at her steadily.

"When our old nannie was here."

Rita fixed her blue eyes on his.

"There was someone else here, too," she insisted.

"Sophy always brought us here," he repeated mechanically.

"I remember old Sophy," murmured Rita thoughtfully.  "She cried dreadfully when she went away.
She was not allowed to kiss us because she had turned all silver colour."  She trilled into
gay laughter. "Mamma told me that it might have turned us all silver, too."

"I kissed her before she went, anyway!" burst from Roddy fiercely. "And I would not have cared
if it had turned me to silver."

Christine glanced wonderingly at him, astonished at this new theme of silver.

"But if she went away, how is it that she is buried here, Roddy?"

"She isn't."

"But the grave we covered with portulaca--"  She stopped abruptly, for the boy's face had assumed
the look she could not bear--the look of enduring that only those hardened to life should know.
"Come and listen to this story of a magic carpet on which two children were carried over strange
lands and cities," she said gently, and drew them all round her, with an arm through Roddy's.

The windows and shutters were thrown open at sunset, and the children had their tea in the
dining-room.  Afterward, they went for a long walk across the sands toward the kopjes, which
had receded into distance again and in the west were turning purple with mauve tops.  But the
rest of the sky was coloured a threatening greenish bronze, with monstrous-shaped clouds sprawled
across it; and the air, though sunless, was still sand-laden and suffocating, with the promise
of storm.

It would have been easy for Christine to take the children toward the vicinity in which Saltire
was occupied and where he would now be putting up his instruments and dismissing his workers
for the night, but some instinct half modest, half self-sacrificing made her postpone the happiness
of seeing him again, and guided her feet in an opposite direction.  She was certain that, though
he had refrained from dining at the farm except for the one night of Mr. van Cannan's departure,
she would see him there that evening, and she dressed with special care and joy in the beauty
of her hair, her tinted, curving face, and the subtle glamour that she knew she wore as the
gift of happiness.

"How sweet it is to be young and desirable--and desired by the one man in the world!" was the
half-formed thought in her mind as she combed her soft, cloudy black hair high above her face
and fixed it with a tall amber comb.  But she would not converse too clearly with her heart.
Enough that she had heard it singing in her breast as she had never thought to hear it sing
again.  She was glad of the excuse of the heavy heat to discard her usual black gown and be
seen in a colour that she knew belonged to her by right of her black hair and violet eyes--a
deep primrose-yellow of soft, transparent muslin.

Saltire was late for dinner, but he came, as she had known he would, taking his usual place
next to Mrs. van Cannan and almost opposite Christine, who, for the evening meal, was always
expected to sit at the main body of the table.  She was busy at the moment hearing from Mr.
McNeil all about the process of ostrich-feather plucking which was to begin next day, but she
did not miss a word of the late comer's apologies or the merry raillery with which they were
met by his hostess.  The latter, as usual, gathered unto herself every remark uttered at the
table, and the attentions of every man, though she never bothered much about old Andrew McNeil.
But if she had the lip-service, Christine was very well aware to whom was accorded, that night,
the service of the eyes.

Every man there had become aware of the youth and beauty which, till that day, she had worn
as if veiled, and they were paying the tribute that men will proffer until the end of time
to those two gifts of the gods.  She knew it without vanity, but also without embarrassment,
for she had tasted triumph before in a world more difficult to please than this, surrounded
by opponents worthier of her steel than Isabel van Cannan.  The little triumph only pleased
her in that she could offer it as a gift to the man she loved.  For here is another eternal
truth, that all men are one in pride of possession of that which excites envy and admiration
in other men.  All women know this with a gladness that is salted by sorrow.

Saltire's eyes were the only ones she could not meet with serenity. She felt his glance on
her often, but always when she tried to lift hers to meet it, her lids seemed weighted by little
heavy pebbles.

She meant to overcome this weakness, though, and look at him even as she had answered at noon;
but, in the middle of dinner, while she yet strove against the physical inability, her resolution
was disturbed by a strange occurrence.  A wild scream of fear and horror came ringing from
the nursery.  Without a thought for anything but that it was Roddy's voice, Christine sprang
from the table.  Down the long passage and into the nursery she ran, and, almost bursting into
the room, caught the boy in her arms.  He was not screaming now, but white as death and staring
with fearful eyes at the bed, on which the bedclothes were pulled back, with Meekie peering
over it.  The two little girls, round-eyed and frightened, were sitting up in their cots. 
For a moment, Roddy stayed rigid in her arms; then he hid his face against her arm and broke
into convulsive sobs.

"It's a big spider--all red and black--like the one that bit Bernard!"

And, in fact, from where she stood, Christine could see the monstrous thing, with its black,
furry claws, protruding eyes, and red-blotched body, still crouching there in a little hollow
at the end of the bed. Only, the person leaning over examining it now was not Meekie but Saltire,
who had reached the nursery almost on her heels.

"I put my foot against it and touched its beastly fur!" cried Roddy, and suddenly began to
scream again.

"Roddy!  How dare you make that abominable noise?"

Mrs. van Cannan's voice fell like a jet of ice-cold water into the room.  Behind her in the
doorway loomed the tall figure of Saxby, the manager, with McNeil and the others.  Christine's
warm heart would never have suggested such a method of quieting the boy, but it had its points.
Roddy, though still shaking and ashen, stood up straight and looked at his mother.

"All about a silly spider!" continued the latter, with cutting scorn. "I am ashamed of you!
I thought you were brave, like your father."

That flushed Roddy to his brows.

"It has fur--red fur," he stammered.

"You deserve a whipping for your cowardice," said Mrs. van Cannan curtly, and walked over to
the bed.  "The thing is half dead, and quite harmless," she said.

"Half dead or half drunk," McNeil jocosely suggested.  "I never saw a tarantula so quiet as
that before."

"The question is how long would it have stayed in that condition?" said Saltire significantly.
"For you are mistaken about its harmlessness, Mrs. van Cannan.  It is one of the most poisonous
and ferocious of its tribe."

They had got the strangely sluggish beast off the bed by knocking it with a stick into an old
shoe, and were removing it.  Christine only vaguely heard the remarks, for Roddy hid his eyes
while it was being carried out, and was trembling violently against her.  It seemed amazing
to her that Mrs. van Cannan did not realize that there was more than mere cowardice in his
behaviour.  The trouble was so plainly psychological--the memory of the loss of a loved little
brother subtly interwoven with horror of that particular species of venomous insect. Christine
herself had a greater hatred of spiders than of any creeping things, and well understood the
child's panic of disgust and fear.  It filled her with indignation to hear Mrs. van Cannan
turn once more and lash the boy with a phrase before she swept from the room.

"Miserable little coward!"

In a moment, the girl was kneeling on the floor beside the unhappy child, holding him tight,
whispering words of love and comfort.

"No, no, darling; it is only that she does not understand!  We will explain to her--I will
tell her later why you hated it so.  Wait till your daddy comes back.  I am sure he will understand."

So she strove to comfort him, while Meekie coaxed the little girls back to the horizontal attitude
under their sheets.

"Don't make me go back into that bed," whispered Roddy fearfully.

"No; of course not.  Don't worry; just trust me, darling!"  She turned to Meekie.  "I will
stay with them now, Meekie.  You may go."

"But has the missy had her dinner?" asked the Cape woman politely.

"I have had all I want, thank you, Meekie."

The thought of going back to the dinner-table--to eat and join in the talk and laughter while
this small boy whom she loved stayed alone with his wretchedness revolted her.  Perhaps later,
when he slept, she might slip out into the garden for a while.  In the meantime, she beguiled
him over to her own bed, and having taken off the coverlet to show him that it held no lurking
horrors, she made him get in and curl up, and she knelt beside him, whispering softly so as
not to disturb the others, reassuring him of her belief in his courage whilst understanding
his horror, confessing her own hatred of spiders, but urging him to try and fight against his
fear of them.  She told him stories of her own childhood, crooned little poems to him, and
sang old songs softly, hoping and praying that he would presently fall asleep. But time slipped
by, and he remained wide-eyed, gripping her hand tightly, and only by the slightest degrees
relaxing the nervous rigour of his body under the coverlet.  Suddenly, he startled her by a
strange remark:

"If I could only get into the pink palace with Carol, I'd be all right."

The girl looked down into the distended pupils gazing so wistfully at her, and wondering what
new psychological problem she had to deal with. She knew she must go very warily, or defeat
her own longing to help him.  At last, she said very tenderly,

"The world is full of pink palaces, Roddy, but we do not always find them until we are grown up."

He looked at her intently.

"Carol found one at the bottom of the dam," he whispered slowly.  "He is there now; it's only
his body that is buried in the graveyard."

She smoothed his hair gently with her hand.

"Carol is in a more beautiful palace than any we find here on earth, darling."

The secret, elfin expression crossed his face, but he said nothing.

"And you must not believe that about the dam," she warned him gravely. "There is nothing at
the bottom of it but black mud, and deep water that would drown you, too, if you went in."

"I know the palace is there," he repeated doggedly.  "I have seen it. The best time to see
it is in the early morning or in the evening.  All the towers of it are pink then, and you
can see the golden wings of the angels shining through the windows."

"That is the reflection of the pink-and-gold clouds in the sky at dawn and sunset that you
see, dear silly one.  Will you not believe me?"

He squeezed her hand lovingly.

"Mamma has seen it, too," he whispered.  "You know she was with Carol when he fell in, and
she saw him go into the door of the palace and be met by all the golden angels.  She tried
to get him back, but she cannot swim, and then she came running home for help.  Afterward,
they took Carol's body out and buried him, but, you know, he is really there still.  Mamma
has seen him looking through the windows--she told me--but you must not tell any one.  It is
very secret, and once I thought I saw him, too, beckoning to me."

Christine was staggered.  That so dangerous an illusion had been fostered by a mother was too
bewildering, and she hardly knew how to meet and loyally fight it.  It did not take her long
to decide.  With all the strength at her command, she set to work to clear away from his mind
the whole fantastical construction.  He clung to it firmly at first, and, in the end, almost
pleaded to be left with the belief that he had but to step down the dam wall and join his brother
in the fair pink palace.  She realized now what tragedy had been lurking at her elbow all these
days.  Remembering the day when she had caught him up at the brink of the dam, she turned cold
as ice in the heat-heavy room. A moment later, she returned to her theme, her explanations,
her prayers for a promise from him that never, never would he go looking again for a vision
that did not exist.  At last he promised, and almost immediately fell asleep.

As for Christine Chaine, she stayed where she was on the floor, her head resting on the bed
in sheer exhaustion, her limbs limp.  All thought of going into the garden had left her.  Sitting
there, stiff-kneed and weary, she thought of Saltire's eyes, and realized that there had come
and gone an evening which she must count for ever among the lost treasures of her life.  Yet
she did not regret it as she rose at last and looked down by the dim light on the pale, beautiful,
but composed little face on the pillow.

She lay long awake.  Roddy's bed was too short for her, and there was no ease in it, even had
her mind and heart been at rest.  All the fantasies she had beguiled from the boy's brain had
come to roost in her own, with a hundred other vivid and painful impressions.  The night, too,
was fuller than usual of disquietude.  The wind, which had been rising steadily, now tore at
the shutters and rushed shrieking through the trees.  There was a savage rumble of thunder
among the hills, and, intermittently, lightning came through the shutter-slats.

When, above it all, she heard a gentle tapping, and sensed the whispering presence without,
her cup of dreadful unease was full.  But she was not afraid.  She rose, as she had done one
night before, and put on her dressing-gown.  For a while, standing close to the shutters, she
strained her ears to catch the message whose import she knew so well.  The idea of speaking
to someone or something as anxious as herself over Roddy had banished all horror.  She longed
for an interview with the strange being without.  There was nothing to do but attempt, as before,
to leave the house by the front door.

Down the long passage and through the dining-room she felt her way, moving noiselessly.  When
she came to the door, she found it once again with the bar hanging loose.  More, it was ajar,
and stirring (sluggishly, by reason of its great weight) to the wind.  But her hand fell back
when she would have opened it wide, for there were two people in the blackness of the porch,
bidding each other good-night with kisses and wild words.  Clear on a gust of wind came Isabel
van Cannan's voice, fiercely passionate.

"I hate the place.  Oh, to be gone from it, Dick!  To be gone with you, my darling!  When--when?"

He crushed the question on her lips with kisses and whisperings.

Christine Chaine stole back from whence she came, with the strange and terrible sensation that
her heart was being crushed between iron fingers and was bleeding slowly, drop by drop, to
death.  Once more, life had played her false.  Love had mocked her and passed by on the other side.

Some of the men wondered, next day, how they could have had the illusion that Miss Chaine was
a beautiful girl.  The two Hollanders, who were great friends, discussed the matter after lunch
while they were clipping feathers from the ostriches.  One thing was quite clear to them both:
she was just one of those cold Englishwomen without a drop in her veins of the warmth and sparkle
that a man likes in a woman.  Mrs. van Cannan now--she was the one!  Still, it was a funny
thing how they should have been taken in over Miss Chaine.  Someone else had been taken in,
too, however, and with a vengeance--that fellow Saltire, with his "sidey" manners.  He had
got a cold douche, if you like, at the hands of the proud one.  They had all witnessed it.
Thus and thus went the Dutchmen's remarks and speculations, and they chuckled with the malice
of schoolboys over the discomfiture of Saltire.  For it was well known to them and to the other
men that the Englishman had ridden off, in the cool hours of the dawn, to Farnie Marais' place
about ten miles away, to get her some flowers.  He wanted to borrow an instrument, he said,
but it was funny he should choose to go to Marais', who was more famous for the lovely roses
he grew for the market than for any knowledge of scientific instruments.  Funny, too, that
all he had been seen to bring back was a bunch of yellow roses that must have cost him a stiff
penny, for old Farnie did not grow roses for fun.

No one had seen Saltire present the roses (that must have happened in the dining-room before
the others came in); but all had marked the careless indifference with which they were scattered
on the table and spilled on the floor beside the governess's chair.  She looked on calmly,
too, while the little girls, treating them like daisies, pulled several to pieces, petal by
petal.  Only the boy Roderick had appeared to attach any worth to them.  He rescued some from
under the table, and was overheard to ask ardently if he might have three for his own.  The
answer that he might have them all if he liked was not missed by any one in the room, though
spoken in Miss Chaine's usual quiet tones.  It might have been an accident that she walked
over some of the spilled roses as she left the room, but certainly she could not have shown
her mind more plainly than by leaving every single one behind her.  Roddy only, with a pleased
and secret look upon his face, carried three of them away in a treasured manner.

Whatever Saltire's feelings were at the affront put upon him, he gave no sign.  He was not
one who wore his emotions where they could be read by all who ran, or even by those who sat
and openly studied him with malice and amusement.  His face was as serene as usual, and his
envied gift of turning events of the monotonous everyday veld life into interesting topics
of conversation remained unimpaired.  He had even risen, as always, with his air of careless
courtesy, to open the door for the woman who walked over his flowers.

The fact remained, as the manager said to the foreman after lunch, that he had certainly "caught
it in the neck," and must have felt it somewhere.  Perhaps he did.  Perhaps he merely congratulated
himself that the little scene when he had given the roses to Miss Chaine had been lost by everyone
except the children, who were too young and self-engrossed to value its subtlety.

Either by accident or design, he had come to lunch a little earlier than usual, and as Miss
Chaine and the children were always in their seats a good ten minutes before the rest of the
party, it was quite simple for him, entering quietly and before she even knew of his presence,
to lay the bunch of fragrant roses across her hands.  A sweep of heavy delicious perfume rose
to her face, and she gave a little rapturous "Oh!"

"I thought you might like them," said Saltire, with a sort of boyish diffidence that was odd
in him.  "They are just the colour of the dress you wore last night."

In an instant, her face froze.  She looked at him, with eyes from which every vestige of friendliness
or liking had completely disappeared, and said politely, but with the utmost disdain:

"Thank you, I do not care for them.  Pray give them where they will be appreciated."

She pulled her hands from under the lovely blooms and pushed them away as if there were something
contaminating in their touch.  Some fell on the table, some on the floor.  For a moment, Saltire
seemed utterly taken aback, then he said carelessly:

"Throw them away if you like.  They were meant for you and no one else."

She gave him a curiously cutting glance, but spoke nothing.  As the sound of voices told of
the approach of the other men, he walked to his place without further remark, and had already
taken his seat when Mrs. van Cannan, followed by Saxby, entered.  They were talking about Saxby's
wife, and Mrs. van Cannan looked infinitely distressed.

"I am so sorry.  I will go and sit with her this afternoon and see if I can cheer her up,"
she said.

"It will be very kind of you," said Saxby gratefully.  "I have never known her so low."

"It must be the weather.  We are all feeling the heat terribly.  If only the rains would break."

"They are not far off," said Andrew McNeil cheerfully.  "I prophesy that tonight every kloof
will be roaring full, and tomorrow will see the river in flood."

"In that case, the mail had better go off this evening at six," said Mrs. van Cannan.  "It
may be held up for days otherwise.  I hope everyone has their letters ready?  Have you, Miss
Chaine?"

"I have one or two still to write, but I can get through them quickly this afternoon."

Christine avoided looking directly at her.  She felt that the woman must see the contempt in
her eyes.  It was hard to say which she detested more of the two sitting there so serenely
cheerful--the faithless wife and mother, or the man who ate another man's salt and betrayed
him in his absence.  It made her feel sick and soiled to be in such company, to come into contact
with such creeping, soft-footed, whispering treachery.  She ached to get away from it all and
wipe the whole episode from her mind.  Yet how could she leave the children, leave Roddy, desert
the father's trust?  She knew she could not.  But very urgently she wrote after lunch to Mr.
van Cannan, begging him to return to the farm as soon as his health permitted and release her
from her engagement.  She expressed it as diplomatically as she was able, making private affairs
her reason for the change; but she could not and would not conceal the fervency of her request.

There was a brooding silence in the room where she sat writing and thinking.  Roddy, for once,
tired out from the night before, slept under his mosquito-net, side by side with the little
girls, and Christine, looking at his beautiful, classical face and sensitive mouth, wondered
how she would ever be able to carry out her plan to leave the farm.  Who would understand him
as she did, and protect him? Even the father who loved him had not known of the secret, fantastic
danger of the dam.  And the woman who should have destroyed the fantasy had encouraged it!
But God knew what was in the heart of that strange woman; Christine Chaine did not--nor wished
to.  All she wished was that she might never see her again.  As for Saltire, her proud resolve
was to blot him from her memory, to forget that he had ever occupied her heart for a moment.
But--O God, how it hurt, that empty, desecrated heart!  How it haunted her, the face she had
thought so beautiful, with its air of strength and chivalry, that now she knew to be a mockery
and a lie!

She sat in the shuttered gloom, with her hands pressed to her temples, and bitter tears that
could no longer be held back sped down her cheeks.  In all the dark hours since she had stolen
back to the nursery, overwhelmed by the discovery of a hateful secret, she had not wept.  Her
spirit had lain like a stricken thing in the ashes of humiliation, and her heart had stayed
crushed and dead.  "Cold as a stone in a valley lone."  Now it was wakened to pain once more
by the scent of three yellow roses carefully placed by Roddy in a jug on the table.  The scent
of those flowers told her that she must go wounded all her life.  She could "never again be
friends with roses."  He had even spoiled those for her.  How dared he?  Oh, how dared he come
to her with gifts of flowers in his hands straight from a guilty intrigue with another man's wife?

The children stirred and began to chirrup drowsily, and she hastily collected herself, forcing
back her tears and assuming the expressionless mask which life so often makes women wear. 
She was only just in time.  A moment later, Isabel van Cannan came into the room with a packet
of letters in her hands.

"Oh, Miss Chaine," she said, with her pretty, child-like air, "would it be too much to ask
you to take down these letters to the store presently?  The mail is to leave about four o'clock.
I have to go out myself by and by, but the Saxbys' house is in the opposite direction, as you
know, and I am really not able to knock about too much in this heat."

"Certainly I will take them," said Christine.  "But the children?"

"They must not go, of course.  Indeed, I would not ask you to go out in this blaze, but I don't
like to trust letters with servants.  There is no hurry, however.  Finish your own letters
first, then bring the children to my room.  They will amuse themselves there all right."

By the time Christine had donned a shady hat and gloves, Mrs. van Cannan had made out a long
list of articles she required at the store. The household things were to be sent in the ordinary
way, but she begged Christine to choose some coloured cottons that she required for new pinafores
for the little girls and bring them along, also to look through the stock of note-paper for
anything decently suitable, as her own stock had given out.  It was the type of errand Christine
was unaccustomed to perform and plainly foreign to her recognized duties; but it was difficult
to be unobliging and refuse, so she took the letters and the list and departed.

The store was a good half-mile off and the going (in hot weather) not very fast.  Then, when
she got there, the storekeeper was busy with his own mail, and she was kept waiting until various
goods had been packed into the cart before the door and driven away with the mail behind four
prancing mules.  Looking out cottons and writing-paper occupied some further time.  Stores
on farms are poky places, and the things always hidden away in inaccessible spots.  At any
rate, the best part of an hour had passed before Christine was again on her way home, and she
had an uneasy feeling that she had been too long away from the children, especially from Roddy.
Suddenly, her haste was arrested by an unexpected sight.  A tiny spot of colour lay right in
her pathway on the ground.  It was only a yellow rose-leaf, but it brought a catch in Christine's
breath and her feet to an abrupt halt.  How had it come there?  If it had fallen from one of
Roddy's roses, it meant that he had been out of doors since she left!  That set her hurrying
on again, but, as she walked, she reflected that of the many roses left in the dining-room,
some might easily have been carried off by the servants and leaves dropped from them.  Still,
she was breathless and rather pale when she reached the house, wasting not a moment in finding
her way to Mrs. van Cannan's room.

Rita and Coral were amusing themselves happily, winding up a tangle of bright-coloured silks.
But Roddy was gone!  Neither was Mrs. van Cannan there.

Christine sat down rather suddenly, but her voice gave no sign of the alarm she felt.

"Where is Roddy?"

"He went out," answered Rita, perching herself upon Christine.  "Mamma is going to give us
each a new dolly if we get this silk untangled for her."

"How long ago did Roddy go?"

"Just after you went.  But you mustn't be cross with him; Mamma gave him permission."

"Mamma is gone, too, to see poor Mrs. Saxby," prattled Coral.

Christine put them gently away from her.

"Well, hurry up and earn your new dollies," she counselled, smiling; "I'll be back very soon
to help you."

In the dining-room, she looked for the discarded roses and found them gathered in a dying heap
on a small side-table.  In the nursery, she found two of Roddy's roses in the jug.  The third
was missing!

Of one thing she felt as certain as she could feel of anything in the shifting quicksands of
that house, and that was that Roddy had not gone to the dam, for he had promised her earnestly,
the night before, that never again would he go there without her.  Could he, then, have gone
to the cemetery?  Even that seemed unlikely, for he loved her to go with him on his excursions
thither.  Where else, then?  The rose-leaf she had passed on the road stuck obstinately in
her memory, and now she suddenly remembered that the place she had seen it was near the barn
from whence she had once found Roddy emerging.  Perhaps he had gone there to amuse himself
in his own mysterious fashion.  He might even have been there when she passed.  Oh, why had
she not looked in?  But the omission was easily rectified.  In two minutes she was out of doors
again, walking rapidly the way she had come.

Roddy was not in the barn, however, and it seemed at a glance as harmless a place as she had
thought it before.  An end of it was full of forage, and one side piled high with old farm-implements
and empty cases.  Rather to the fore of the pile stood one large packing case, sacking and
straw sticking from under its loose lid.  Christine had just decided there was nothing here
to warrant her scrutiny when, lying in front of this case, she saw something that drew her
gaze like a magnet.  It was another yellow rose-leaf.

"Roddy!" she cried, and was astonished at the sharp relief in her voice, for she had suddenly
made up her mind that the boy was there hiding from her.  There was no answer to her call.
Very slowly then she went over and lifted the lid of the case.  It was quite loose, and edged
with a fringe of strong nails that had once fastened it to the box, but which now were red
with rust.  A quantity of sacking, of the kind used for winding about fragile goods, lay heaped
at the top and came away easily to her hand, exposing that which lay firmly wedged at the bottom.
What she had expected to find she did not know.  What she did find astonished her beyond all
things.  It was a beautifully chiselled white marble tombstone in the shape of a cross.  The
whole of the inscription was clear of dust or any covering save one fading yellow rose.  Awed,
deeply touched, and feeling herself upon the verge of a mysterious revelation, Christine lifted
Roddy's yellow rose and read the simple gold-lettered inscription:

  TO THE MEMORY OF MY BELOVED WIFE,
  CLARICE VAN CANNAN
  (BORN QUENTIN),
  WHO DIED AT EAST LONDON, JUNE 7, 19--, AND WAS
  BROUGHT BACK TO REST NEAR HER SORROWING
  HUSBAND AND CHILDREN.
  (AGED 27)

The date of death was two years old.

Much that had been dark became clear to Christine.  She understood at last.  The woman whose
sad fate was here recorded, cut off at twenty-seven--that fairest period in a happy woman's
life--was Roddy's mother, the mother of all the little van Cannan children, living and dead.
The woman who had ousted her memory from all hearts save loving, loyal Roddy's was the second
wife and stepmother.

Much in the attitude of the big, blond, laughing woman who reigned now at Blue Aloes, false
to her husband, careless of the fate of his children, was accounted for, too.  The sorrows
of the van Cannans had never touched her.  How should they?  Had not Christine heard from her
own lips, the night before, the confession of her love for another, and her hatred of Bernard
van Cannan's home.  How, then, should she love Bernard van Cannan's children?

The cruel taunt of cowardice she had flung at Roddy was explained.  The boy's sensitive, loyal
nature was a book too deep for her reading, the memory of his loved ones too sweet and tenacious
for her to tamper with.  Nevertheless, she had understood him well enough to set a bond on
his honour never to speak of the dead woman who slept in the unmarked grave while her tombstone
lay in the rubble of an outhouse. The spell by which she had won the man to forgetfulness and
neglect was not the same as that by which she had induced silence in the boy.  A promise had
been wrung from him--perhaps even under duress!  Suddenly, terror swept over Christine Chaine.
It was revealed to her, as in a vision, that the pink-and-white woman who laughed with such
childlike innocence by day and whispered so passionately to her lover by night could be capable
of many things not good for those who stood in the way of her wishes.

Why had two of the van Cannan sons died sudden deaths?  Why was the lure of a pink palace at
the bottom of the dam fostered in the third? How had the tarantula come into his bed, and why
had someone said that it acted like a thing drugged or intoxicated, and that, when it woke
up, it would have been a bad lookout for Roddy?

"God forgive me!" cried the distracted girl to herself.  "Perhaps I am more wicked than she,
to harbour such thoughts!"

Then, as if at a call that her heart heard rather than her ears, she found herself running
out of the barn and across the veld in the hot, stormy sunshine, in the direction of the Saxbys'
bungalow.

She had never been there before, though often, in their walks, she and the children had passed
within a stone's throw of the little wood-and-iron building.  The door was always shut, and
the windows hidden by the heavy creeper that covered in the stoep.  She had often thought what
a drab and dreary life it must be for a woman to live hidden away there, and even the children
never passed without a compassionate allusion to "poor Mrs. Saxby, always shut up there alone."

A dread of seeing the sad, disfigured creature seized her now, as she reached the darkened
stoep, and held her back for a moment.  She stood wondering why she had come and how she could
expect to find Roddy there where the children had never been allowed to penetrate.  But, in
the very act of hesitation, she heard the boy's voice ring out.

"No, mamma; please don't make me do it!"

In a couple of swift steps she was in the stoep and her hand on the knob of the door.  But
the door would not open.  There were two narrow windows that gave onto the stoep, and, without
pause, she flew to the one that she judged to be in the direction of the child's voice and
laid hands upon it.  It was closed and curtained with thick blue muslin, but there were no
shutters, and to her forceful push the lower part jerked up, and the curtains divided.  She
found herself standing there, the silent spectator of a scene in which all the actors were
silent, too amazed or paralyzed by her unexpected appearance.

PART III

The room was a common little sitting-room with a table in the centre, at either end of which
sat Mrs. van Cannan and Mr. Saxby.  Roddy was between the table and the wall, and Christine's
first glance showed him white-faced and staring with fascinated, fearful eyes at a large cardboard
box, with a flat-iron on its lid, which stood on the table. The two elder people were each
holding small knobkerries, that is, stout sticks with wired handles and heavy heads made by
the natives.  A revolver lay at Saxby's elbow.

The little tableau remained stationary just long enough for Christine to observe all details;
then everyone acted at once.  Roddy flew round the table and reached her at the window, sobbing:

"Oh, Miss Chaine!  Miss Chaine!"

Saxby laid his knobkerrie on the table and lit a cigarette, and Mrs. van Cannan, rising from
her seat with an air of dignity outraged beyond all bounds, addressed Christine.

"What is the meaning of this intrusion, Miss Chaine?  How dare you come bursting into Mr. Saxby's
house like this?"

"I heard Roddy call out," was the firm answer, "and I consider it my duty to protect him."
She had the boy well within her reach now, and could easily have lifted him out of the low
window, but it seemed an undignified thing to do unless it became absolutely necessary.

"Protect him!  From what, may I ask?"  The woman's voice was like a knife.

"I don't know from what.  I only know that he was in grave fear of something you were about to do."

Saxby interposed with a soft laugh.

"You surely cannot suppose Roddy was in any danger from his mother, Miss Chaine--or that I
would harm him?"

He certainly did not look very harmful with his full, handsome features and melancholy smile.

"Your action is both ridiculous and impertinent," continued Mrs. van Cannan furiously.  "And
I can tell you that I will not stand that sort of thing from any one in my house," she added,
with the air of one dismissing a servant: "You may go.  Roddy, come here!"

Roddy gave a wild cry.

"Don't leave me, Miss Chaine.  They've got a snake in that box, and they want me to let it out."

There was blank silence for a moment; then Christine spoke with deliberation.

"If this is true, it is the most infamous thing I have ever heard."

Even Isabel van Cannan was silenced, and Saxby's deprecating smile passed.  He said gravely:

"Mrs. van Cannan has a right to use what methods she thinks best to cure her boy of cowardice."

"Cowardice!" Christine answered him scornfully.  "The word would be better applied to those
who deliberately terrify a child.  I am astonished at a man taking part in such a vile business."

She was pale with indignation and pity for the boy who trembled in her arms, and in no mood
to choose her words.

Saxby shrugged his shoulders with a sort of helpless gesture toward his companion as if to
say he had only done as he was told.  Mrs. van Cannan gave him a furious glance before returning
to Christine.

"Can't you see," she said violently, "that we have sticks here ready to kill the thing, and
a revolver if necessary?  Not that it is poisonous--if it had bitten that miserable little
worm!"  She cast a withering glance at Roddy.  He shrank closer to Christine, who judged it
time to pull him safely from the room to her side on to the veranda.

"There is nothing miserable about Roddy," she said fiercely, "except his misfortune in having
a step-mother who neither loves nor understands him."

That blenched the woman at the table.  She turned a curious yellow colour, and her golden-brown
eyes appeared to perform an evolution in her head that, for a moment, showed nothing of them
but the eyeball.

"That will do," she hissed, advancing menacingly upon Christine.  "I always felt you were a
spy.  But you shall not stay prying here another day.  Pack your things and go at once."

"Come, come, Mrs. van Cannan," interposed Saxby soothingly; "I am sure you are unjust to Miss
Chaine.  Besides, how can she go at once?  There is nothing for her to travel by until the
cart returns from Cradock."

But the woman he addressed had lost all control of herself.

"She goes tomorrow, cart or no cart!" she shouted, and struck one clenched fist on the other.
"We will see who is mistress at Blue Aloes!"

Christine cast at her the look of a well-bred woman insulted by a brawling fishwife, and with
Roddy's hand tightly in hers, walked out of the veranda without deigning to answer.

But though her mien was haughty as she walked away from Saxby's bungalow holding Roddy's hand,
her spirits were at zero.  She had burned her boats with a vengeance, and come out into the
open to face an enemy who would stick at nothing, and who, apparently, had everyone at the
farm at her side, including the big, good-natured-seeming Saxby.

It would be difficult to stay on at Blue Aloes and protect Roddy if his stepmother insisted
on her departure, and she did not see how she was going to do it.  She only knew that nothing
and no one should budge her from the place.  Something dogged in her upheld her from dismay
and determined her to take a stand against the whole array of them.  She was in the right,
and it was her plain duty to do as Bernard van Cannan had besought, and not go until she could
place Roddy in his father's hands with the full story of his persecutions.

"Tell me about it, Roddy," she said quietly, as they walked away. "Don't hide anything.  You
know that I love you and that your father has trusted you to my care."

"Yes," he assented eagerly; "but how did you know about my real mammie being dead?"  His natural
resilience had already helped him to surmount the terror just past, and he was almost himself
again.  "I wanted to tell you, but I had promised mamma not to tell any one."

It was as Christine had supposed.  She explained her finding of the tombstone and the yellow
rose, but not the rest of her terrible conclusions.

"I put it there," he said shyly.  "She always loved yellow and red flowers.  I was keeping
the other two for her and Carol in the graveyard."

Christine squeezed the warm little hand, but continued her questions steadily.

"What happened after you had been to the outhouse?"

"Mamma was waiting for me on the stoep.  She said she wanted me to come with her to see Mrs.
Saxby."  He added, with the sudden memory of surprise: "But we didn't see Mrs. Saxby.  I wonder
where she was."

The same wonder seized Christine.  Where could the unhappy, distraught creature have been hiding
while the trial of Roddy was in process?

"What happened then?"

"We just went into the sitting-room, and Mr. Saxby got the box and the knobkerries and his
revolver, and mamma said, 'Now, Roddy, there is a snake in that box, and I want you to prove
you are not a coward like last night by taking off the lid.'"  He shuddered violently.  "But
I couldn't.  Oh, Miss Chaine, am I a coward?" he pleaded.

"No, darling; you are not," she said emphatically.  "Nobody in their senses would touch a box
with a snake in it.  It was very wrong to ask you to."

He looked at her gratefully.

"Then you opened the window.  Oh, how glad I felt!  It was just like as if God had sent you,
for my heart felt as if it was calling out to you all the time.  Perhaps you heard it and that
made you come?"

"I did, Roddy," she said earnestly, "I ran all the way from the outhouse, because I felt you
were in need of me."

They were nearly home when they saw Saltire and his boys close beside their path.  Roddy was
urgent to stop and talk, but Christine made the fact that heavy rain-drops were beginning to
fall an excuse for hurrying on, and indeed in Saltire's face there was no invitation to linger,
for, though he smiled at Roddy, Christine had never seen him so cold and forbidding-looking.

"He knows that I know," she thought, "and, base as he is, that disturbs him."  The bitter thought
brought her no consolation.  She felt desolate and alone, like one lost in a desert, with a
great task to accomplish and no friend in sight or sign in the skies.  In the house, she collected
the little girls, and they spent the rest of the afternoon together.  The storm had broke suddenly,
and the long-threatened rain came at last, lashing up the earth and battering on the window-panes
amid deafening claps of thunder and a furious gale of wind.

When bath-time came for the children, Christine stayed with them until the last moment, superintending
Meekie.  She would have given worlds to avoid going in to dinner that night.  No one could
have desired food less, or the society of those with whom she must partake of it.  Yet she
felt that it would be a sign of weakness and a concession to the enemy if she stayed away,
so she dressed as usual and went in to face the dreary performance of sitting an hour or so
with people whom she held in fear as well as contempt, for she knew not from moment to moment
what new offence she might have to meet.  Only great firmness of spirit and her natural good
breeding sustained her through that trying meal.

Saltire did not put in an appearance, for which small mercy she was fain to thank God.  Deeply
as he had wounded and offended her, she hated to see his face as she had seen it that afternoon.
Mrs. van Cannan, oddly pallid but with burning eyes, absolutely ignored the presence of the
governess, and her lead was followed by all save Andrew McNeil, who was no man's man but his
own, and always treated the girl with genial friendliness.  As a matter of fact, there was
but little conversation, for the sound of the rain, swishing down on the roof and windows and
tearing through the trees without, deadened the sound of voices, and everyone seemed distrait.

Christine was not the only one who finished her meal hurriedly.  As she rose, asking to be
excused, Mrs. van Cannan, rising too, detained her.

"I wish to make arrangements with you about your departure tomorrow, Miss Chaine," she said,
loudly enough for everyone's hearing.  "Kindly come to my room."

There was nothing to be gained by not complying.  Christine did not mean to leave the next
day, and this seemed a good opportunity for stating her reasons and intentions; she buckled
on her moral armour as she followed the trailing pink-and-white draperies down the long passage,
preparing for an encounter of steel on steel.

"Close the door," said Isabel van Cannan, and went straight to a table drawer, taking out a
small bag full of money.

"I shall give you a month's salary instead of notice," she announced, counting out sovereigns,
"though, as a matter of fact, I believe you are not entitled to it, considering the scandalous
way you have behaved, plotting and spying and setting the children against me."

Christine disdained to answer this lying charge.  She only said quietly:

"It is useless to offer me money, Mrs. van Cannan.  I have no intention of leaving the farm
until Mr. van Cannan returns."

"What do you mean?  How dare you?" began the other, with a return of her loud and insolent manner.

"Don't shout," said Christine coldly.  "You only degrade yourself and do not alarm me.  I mean
what I have said.  Mr. van Cannan engaged me, and entrusted his children to my care, not only
when I came but by letter since his departure.  I do not mean to desert that trust or relegate
it to any hands but his own."

"He never wrote to you.  I don't believe a word of it."

"You are at liberty to believe what you choose.  I have the proof, and shall produce it if
necessary.  In the meantime, please understand plainly that I do not intend to be parted from
Roddy."

A baffled look passed over the other's features, but she laughed contemptuously.

"We shall see," she sneered.  "Wait till tomorrow, and we shall see how much your proofs and
protests avail you."

"As we both know each other's minds and intentions, there is no use in prolonging this very
disagreeable interview," answered Christine calmly, and walked out.

The dining-room was silent and dim.  The men had evidently braved the rain for the sake of
getting early to their own quarters, and no one was about.  In the nursery, the lamp by which
she sometimes read or wrote at her own table had not been lighted.  Only a sheltered candle
on the wash-hand stand cast a dim shadow toward the three little white beds under their mosquito-nets.
Meekie had gone, but the quiet breathing of the children came faintly to the girl as she sat
down by her table, thankful for a little space of silence and solitude in which to collect
her forces.  She saw violent and vulgar scenes ahead.  Mrs. van Cannan, now that her true colours
were unmasked, and it was no longer worth while to play the soft, sleepy rôle behind which
she hid her fierce nature, would stick at nothing to get rid of Christine and set the whole
world against her.  Though the girl's resolution held firm, a dull despair filled her.  How
vile and cruel life could be! Friendship was a mockery; love, disillusion and ashes; nothing
held sweet and true but the hearts of little children.  An arid conclusion for a girl from
whom the gods had not withdrawn those two surpassing and swiftly passing gifts--youth and beauty.

"To be a cynic at twenty-two!" she thought bitterly, and looked at her white, ringless hands.
"I must have loved my kind even better than Chamfort, who said that no one who had loved his
kind well could fail to be a misanthrope at forty.  And I thought I had left it all behind
in civilized England!  Cruelty, falseness, treachery!  But they are everywhere.  Even here,
on a South African farm in the heart of a desert, I find them in full bloom."

She bowed her head in her hands and strove for peace and forgetfulness, if for that night only.
In the end, she found calmness at least, by reciting softly to herself the beautiful Latin
words of her creed. Then she arose and took the candle in her hand for a final look at the
children before she retired.  The day had been terrible and full of surprises, but fate had
reserved a last and staggering one for this hour.  Roddy's bed was empty!

The shock of the discovery dazed her for a moment.  It was too horrible to think that she had
been sitting there all this time, wasting precious moments, while Roddy was--where?  O God,
where, and in what cruel hands on this night of fierce storm and stress?  When was it that
he had gone?  Why had not Meekie been at her post as usual?  She caught up the light and ran
from the nursery into one room after another of the house.

All was silent.  The servants were gone, the rooms empty.  No sound but the pitiless battering
of the rain without.  At last she came to Isabel van Cannan's room and rapped sharply.  There
was no answer, and she made no bones about turning the door-handle, for this was no time for
ceremony.  But the bedroom, though brightly lighted, was empty.  She did not enter, but stood
in the doorway, searching with her eyes every corner and place that could conceivably hide
a small boy.  But there was no likely place.  Even the bed stood high on tall brass legs, and
its short white quilt showed that nothing could be hidden there.  One object, however, that
Christine Chaine had not sought forced itself upon her notice--an object that, even in her
distress of mind, she had time to find extraordinary and unaccountable in this house of extraordinary
and unaccountable things.  On the dressing-table was a wig-stand of the kind to be seen in
the window of a fashionable coiffeur.  It had a stupid, waxen face, and on its head was arranged
a wig of blond curly hair with long golden plaits hanging down on each side, even as the plaits
of Isabel van Cannan hung about her shoulders as she lay among her pillows every morning. 
The thing gave Christine a thrill such as all the horrors of that day had not caused her. 
So innocent, yet so sinister, perched there above the foolish, waxen features, it seemed symbolical
of the woman who hid cruel and terrible things behind her babylike airs and sleepy laughter.

Atop of these thoughts came the woman herself, emerging en déshabillé from her adjoining bathroom.
The moment she saw Christine, she flung a towel across her head, but too late for her purpose.
The girl had seen the short, crisp, almost snowy curls that were hidden by day under the golden
wig, and realized in an instant that she was in the presence of a woman of a breed she had
never known--mulatto, albino, or some strange admixture of native and European blood.  The
golden hair, assisted by artificial aids to the complexion, and her large golden-brown eyes
had lent an extraordinary blondness to the skin.  But the moment the wig was off, the mischief
was out.  The thickness of eyelids and nostril, and a certain cruel, sensuous fulness of the
lips and jaw told the dark tale, and Christine wondered how she could ever have been taken
in, except that the woman before her was as clever as she was cruel and unscrupulous.  A tingling
horror stole through her veins as she stood there, sustaining a malignant glance and listening
dumfounded to an insolent inquiry as to what further spying she had come to do.

"I beg your pardon," she stammered.  "I knocked, and, getting no answer, opened the door, hardly
knowing what I did in my distress. Roddy is missing from his bed, and I don't know where to
look for him."

The other had turned away for a moment, adjusting the covering on her head before a mirror.
She may still have believed that her secret remained unrevealed.

"I haven't the faintest notion of Roddy's whereabouts," she said, "and if he is lost out in
this storm, perhaps drowned in one of the kloofs, yours will be the blame, and I will see you
are brought to book for it."  She spoke with the utmost malice and satisfaction.  "Now, get
out of my room!"

Christine went.  Indeed, she was convinced that for once the woman spoke truth and that Roddy
was not there or anywhere in the house.  It was out-of-doors that she must seek him.  So back
to her room on winged feet to get a waterproof and make her way from the house.  For once,
the front door was barred!  Outside, the rain had ceased as suddenly as it had burst from the
heavens.  Only the wind swished and howled wildly among the trees, tearing up handfuls of gravel
to fling against the doors and windows.  Afar off was a roaring sound new to her, that, later,
she discovered to be the rushing waters in the kloofs that were tearing tumultuously to swell
the river a few miles off.  Clouds had blotted out moon and stars.  All the light there was
came intermittently from whip-like lightning flashes across the sky.  It helped Christine a
little as she stumbled through the darkness, crying out Roddy's name, but she found herself
often colliding with trees, and prickly-pear bushes seemed to be rushing hither and thither,
waving fantastic arms and clutching for her as she passed.  The idea had come to her suddenly
to seek Andrew McNeil and ask for his help.  He was the only friendly soul of all those on
the farm that she could turn to. True, another face presented itself to her mind for one moment,
but she banished it with scorn, despising herself for even thinking of Dick Saltire.

She fancied that McNeil lodged at the storekeeper's place, and set herself to find the route
she had taken that afternoon--no easy task in the darkness that surrounded her.  But at last
she saw a twinkle of light, and, approaching closer, found that, by great good luck, she had
indeed happened on the store.  The door stood open, and she could see the man behind the counter
talking to McNeil, who, seated on an upturned case, was smoking peacefully.  Someone else was
there too--someone whose straight back and gallant air was very familiar to her.  Saltire was
buying tobacco from the storekeeper.  But Christine had no word for him.  She went straight
to McNeil with her story.

"Roddy is lost!" she cried.  "You must please come and help me find him."

The men stared, electrified at her appearance.  White as a bone, her beautiful violet eyes
full of haunting fear; her hair, torn down by the wind and flickering in long black strands
about her face, far below her waist, she looked like a wraith of the storm.

"Roddy lost!"  McNeil and the storekeeper turned mechanically as one man to Saltire.  It was
only the girl who would not turn to him.

"Come quickly!" she urged.  "He may be drowning somewhere, even now, in one of the swollen
streams."  She imagined the tragedy to herself as she spoke, and her voice was full of wistful
despair.

"Get her a hot drink."  Saltire, flinging the command to the storekeeper, spoke for the first
time.  "I'll round up the boys and get lanterns for a search."  In a few moments there was
a flicker of lanterns without, and the murmur of voices.

"Come along, Niekerk!" commanded Saltire, and the storekeeper began to put his lights out.
"McNeil, you take Miss Chaine back to the farm."

"No, no; I must come, too!" she cried.

"Impossible," he said curtly.  "You will only be a hindrance."

"Then I will go home alone," she said quietly, "and free Mr. McNeil to accompany you."

"Very well--if you think you can find your way.  Here is a lantern."

She took it and went her way while they went theirs.  Long before she reached the garden round
the house, the lantern in her unskilful hands had gone out and she was groping by instinct.

All the weariness and strain of the day had suddenly descended upon her in a cloud.  She knew
she was near the end of her tether.  This life at Blue Aloes was too much for her, after all;
she must give it best at last; it was dominating her, driving her like a leaf before the wind.
These were her thoughts as she crept wearily through the garden, but suddenly she heard voices
and was galvanized into hope, tinged with fear.  Perhaps Roddy was found!  Perhaps her terror
and suffering had been unnecessary.  She listened for a moment, then located the speakers close
to her in the stoep.

"Dick," a voice she knew was saying, "I am sick of it.  Bernard may die down in East London,
but we shall never get rid of the boy while that English Jezebel is here.  And she knows too
much now.  We had better go.  Blue Aloes will never be ours to sell and go back to our own
dear island.  Everything has gone wrong."

"Nonsense, Issa.  You are too impatient.  Van Cannan will never come back.  He is too full
of antimony.  As for Roddy, poor kid, he is probably drowned in one of the kloofs and speeding
for the river by now--just the sort of adventure his queer little mind would embark on. No
one can blame us for that, at least.  You are far too easily discouraged, my darling.  Wait
till the morning."  The voice was the soft, sonorous voice of Saxby, and a lightning flash
revealed to the girl cowering among the trees that it was he who held Isabel van Cannan in
his arms.

There were two "Dicks" at Blue Aloes, and Christine, not knowing it, had been guilty of a grave
injustice to Richard Saltire!  Aghast as she was by the revelation, all her love and faith
came tingling back in a sweet, overwhelming flood.  For a moment or two she forgot Roddy, forgot
where she was, forgot all the world but Saltire, and her attention was withdrawn from the pair
in the stoep--indeed, she had no desire to hear their words, now that she was sure they knew
no more of the boy's whereabouts than she herself.  But the muffled clang of the bar across
the front door broke through her thoughts, and she became aware that Saxby had left and Mrs.
van Cannan gone in.  She was alone in the gaunt darkness, barred out, and with no means of
getting into the house; all other doors were locked, as well she knew, and all shutters firmly
bolted, including those of the nursery.  However, the fact did not worry her greatly, for the
thought of being snug and safe while poor Roddy roamed somewhere in the blackness had no appeal
for her.  Out here, she seemed, somehow, nearer to him, and to the man whom she now knew she
had deeply wronged.  Lanterns, twinkling like will-o'-the-wisps in every direction, told of
the search going forward, and she determined to stay in the summer-house and wait for what
news might come.  It was very obscure there, and she knew not what loathly insects might be
crawling on the seats and table, but, at any rate, it was shelter from the rain, which now
again began to fall heavily.

It seemed to her hours that she sat there while the storm swept round her and the rushing of
many waters filled her ears.  As a matter of fact, it was less than half an hour before she
determined that inactivity was something not to be borne another moment and that she must return
and join in the search for Roddy.  So out she stumbled across the veld again, in the direction
of the lanterns, evading as best she could the prickly-pear bushes, stubbing her feet against
rocks and boschies, drenched and driven by the storm.  It was old Andrew McNeil whom she found
first, and he seemed an angel from heaven after the vile and menacing loneliness, although
he was but ill pleased to see her.

"You should be in your bed, lassie," he muttered.  "The poor bairn will never be found this
night.  We've searched everywhere.  There's nothing left but the water."

"Oh, don't say that!" she cried woefully, and peered, fascinated, at the boiling torrent rushing
down a kloof that but yesterday was an innocent gully they had crossed in their walks, in some
places so narrow as to allow a jump from bank to bank.  Now it was a turbulent flood of yellow
water, spreading far beyond its banks and roaring with a rage unappeasable.  While they stood
there, staring, Saltire came up.

"You, Miss Chaine!  I thought I asked you to return to the farm."  His tones, were frigid,
but his eyes compassionate.  No one with any humanity could have failed to be touched by the
forlorn girl, pale and lovely in the dim light.

"I had to come.  I could not stay inert any longer."

"We have searched every inch of the land inside the aloes," he said. "He has either fallen
into one of the streams or got out beyond the hedge into the open veld--which seems impossible,
somehow.  At any rate, we can do no more until it is light."  He dismissed the natives with
a brief: "Get home, boys.  Hamba lalla!" then turned to McNeil. "Take Miss Chaine's other arm,
Mac; we must see for ourselves that she goes indoors."

She made some sound of remonstrance, but he paid no attention, simply taking her arm, half
leading, half supporting her.  There was a long way to go.  They walked awhile in a silence
that had hopelessness in it; then Christine asked:

"Did you search every outhouse and barn?"

"Every one, and the cemetery, too," answered Saltire.  "There's not a place inside or out of
the farm-buildings we haven't been over--except Saxby's bungalow, and he's hardly likely to
be there."

"He was there this afternoon," said Christine slowly.  It seemed to her time to let them into
the truth.

"What!"

Both men halted in amazement.  Such a thing as any one but Mrs. van Cannan going to Saxby's
was unknown.  Briefly she recounted the incidents of the afternoon.  The men's verdict was
the same as hers had been.

"Atrocious!"

"Infamous!  After that, we will certainly visit Saxby's," decided Saltire.  "But, first, Miss
Chaine must go home."

"No, no; let me come," she begged.  "It is not far.  I must know."

So, in the end, she got her way, and they all approached the bungalow together.  It was in
utter darkness, and the men had to rap loud and long before any response came from within.
At last Saxby's voice was heard inquiring who the deuce, and what the deuce, etc., etc., at
that time of the night--followed by his appearance in the doorway with a candle.

"We want to come in and look for Roddy," said Saltire briefly, and, without further ado, pushed
the burly man aside and entered, followed by McNeil.  Christine, too, entered, and sat down
inside the door.  She was very exhausted.  Saxby appeared too flabbergasted to move for a moment.
Then he remonstrated with considerable heat.

"What do you mean by this?  You don't seem to know that you are in my house!"

But the other two had already passed through the empty sitting-room to the one beyond, and
were casting lantern-gleams from side to side, examining everything.

"You must be crazy to think the boy is here," Saxby blustered, as they re-emerged.  They paid
not the slightest attention to him, but continued their search into the kitchen, the only other
room of the house.

"No," said Saltire, very quietly, as he came back into the room and set the light on the table;
"the boy is not here.  But where is Mrs. Saxby?"

Saxby's face had grown rather pallid, but his jaw was set in a dogged fashion.

"That is my business," he said harshly.

It was Saltire whose face and manner had become subtly agreeable.

"Oh, no, Saxby; it is all of our business at present.  What I find so strange is that nowhere
in the house is there any sign or token that a woman lives here, or has ever lived here.  It
seems to me that needs a little explaining."

"You'll get no explanation from me," was the curt answer.

"I think you had better tell us something about it," said Saltire pleasantly.  He held the
lantern high, and it lighted up a shelf upon which stood some curious glass jars with perforated
stoppers.  "I see you have a fine collection of live tarantulas and scorpions.  I remember
now I have often seen you groping among the aloes.  Curious hobby!"

"Get out of my house!" said Saxby, with sudden rage.

"And is the snake still in the box?" asked Saltire, approaching the table where the cardboard
box still occupied its central position, with the heavy iron on top of it.

"Don't touch it, for God's sake!" shouted Saxby, lunging forward to stop him, but the deed
was already done, though Saltire himself was unprepared for what followed on his lifting the
iron.  The lid flew up, and, with a soft hiss, something slim and swift as a black arrow darted
across the air, seemed to kiss Saxby in passing, and was gone through the open door into the night.

The big man made a strange sound and put his hand to his throat.  He swayed a little, and then
sank upon a long cane lounge.  Christine noticed that his eyes rolled with the same curious
evolution as the eyes of Mrs. van Cannan had performed that afternoon.  It was as though they
turned in his head for a moment, showing nothing but the white eyeball.  She wondered why the
other men rushed to the sideboard and opened a brandy-bottle, and while she stayed, wondering,
Saxby spoke softly, looking at her with his beautiful, melancholy brown eyes.

"I shall be dead in half an hour.  Fetch Isabel.  Let me see her face before I die."

She knew him for a bad man, false friend, one who could be cruel to a little child; yet it
seemed he could love well.  That was something. She found herself running through the darkness
as she had never run in her life, to do the last behest of Richard Saxby.

When she and Isabel van Cannan returned, they found him almost gone. Saltire and McNeil had
worked over him until the sweat dripped from their faces, but he who has been kissed by the
black mamba, deadliest of snakes, is lost beyond all human effort.  The light was fast fading
from his face, but, for a moment, a spurt of life leaped in his eyes. He held out his aims
to the woman, and she fell weeping into them. Christine turned away and stared out at the darkness.
Saltire had been writing; a sheet of paper upon which the ink was still wet lay upon the table,
and in his hand he held a packet of letters.

"I have told everything, Issa," muttered the dying man.  "I had to clean my soul of it."

She recoiled fiercely from him.

"'Told everything?'" she repeated, and her face blanched with fury and despair.  It seemed
as if she would have struck him across the lips, but McNeil intervened.

"Have reverence for a passing soul, woman," said he sternly.  "Black as his crimes are, yours
are blacker, I'm thinking.  He was only the tool of the woman he loved--his lawful wife."

"You said that?" she raved.  But Saxby was beyond recriminations.  That dark soul had passed
to its own place.  She turned again to the others, foaming like a creature trapped.

"It is all lies, lies!"--then fell silent, her eyes sealed to the newly written paper on the
table under Saltire's hand.  At last, she said quietly: "I must, however, insist upon knowing
what he has said about me.  What is written on that paper, Mr. Saltire?"

"If you insist, I will read it," he answered.  "Though it is scarcely in my province to do so."

"It is only fair that I should hear," she said, with great calmness. And Saltire read out the
terse phrases that bore upon them the stamp of Death's hurrying hand.

"I am a native of the island Z---- in the West Indies.  Isabel Saxby, known as van Cannan,
is my wife.  While travelling to the Cape Colony on some business of mine, she met van Cannan
and his wife and stayed with them at East London.  When she did not return to Z----, I came
to look for her and found that, Mrs. van Cannan having died, she had bigamously married the
widower and come to live at Blue Aloes.  I loved her, and could not bear to be parted from
her, so, through her instrumentality, I came here as manager.  The eldest boy was drowned before
my arrival.  The youngest died six months later of a bite from one of my specimen tarantulas.
The third boy is, I expect, drowned tonight.  I take the blame of all these deaths and of Bernard
van Cannan's, if he does not return.  It was only when all male van Cannans were dead that
Blue Aloes could be sold for a large sum enabling us to return to Z----.  We would have taken
the little girls with us.

"With my dying breath, I take full blame for all on my shoulders.  No one is guilty but I.

"[Signed.] RICHARD SAXBY."

"Poor fellow!" said the listening woman gently.  "Poor fellow to have died with such terrible
delusions torturing him!"  She passed her hands over her eyes, wiping away her tears and with
them every last trace of violence and anger.  Subtly her face had changed back to the babylike,
laughing, sleepy face they all knew so well--the face that had held the dead man in thrall
and made Bernard van Cannan forget the mother of his children.

"You will please give me that paper, Mr. Saltire," she pleaded, "and you will please all of
you forget the ravings of poor Dick Saxby.  It is true that I knew him in the past, and that
he followed me here, but the rest, as you must realize, are simply hallucinations of a poisoned
brain."

Andrew McNeil's dour face had grown bewildered, but softened. Christine--if she had not seen
a little too much, if she had not known that lovely golden hair hanging in rich plaits about
the woman's shoulders covered the crisped head of a white negress, if she had not overheard
impassioned words at midnight, if she had not loved Roddy so well--might have been beguiled.
But there was one person upon whom the artist's wiles were wasted.

"I'm afraid it can't be done, Mrs. Saxby," said Saltire gravely.  "The testimony of a dying
man is sacred--and Saxby's mind was perfectly clear."

"How could it have been?  And do not call me 'Mrs. Saxby,' please." She still spoke patiently,
but a smouldering fire began to kindle in her eyes.

"You see," he continued, exhibiting the packet of letters to which he now added the testimony,
"I have here the certificate of your marriage to Saxby six years ago in the West Indies--and
also proof of the possession by you of a large amount of antimony.  You may, of course, be
able to explain away these things, as well as Saxby's testimony, but you will understand that
I cannot oblige you by handing them over."  A silence fell, in which only her rapid breathing
could be heard.  "There is one thing, however, you can do, that will perhaps help a little.
Tell us where Roddy is--if you know."

The smouldering fires leaped to flame.  She glared at him like a tigress.

"Oh, you, and your Roddys!" she cried savagely.  "If I knew where he was, I would kill him!
I would kill any one I could who stood in my way--do you understand?  That is how we are made
in my land.  Oh, that I ever left it, to come to this vile and barren desert!"

She gave one swift, terrible look at the dead man and swept from the house.  That was the last
time any one of them ever saw her.

When, a little later, Saltire, McNeil, and Christine came out of the dead man's house and left
him to his long silence, the black wings of night were lifted, the storm was past, and a rose-red
dawn veiled in silver bedecked the sky.  The hills were tender with pearl and azure. The earth
smelled sweet and freshly washed.  A flock of wild duck rose from the dam and went streaking
across the horizon like in a Japanese etching.  All the land was full of dew and dreams.  It
was almost impossible to despair in such an hour.  Christine felt the wings of hope beating
in her breast, and an unaccountable trust in the goodness of God filled her.

"Joy cometh in the morning," she said, half to herself, half to the men who walked, sombre
and silent, beside her, and the shadow of a smile hovered on her lips.  They looked at her
wonderingly.  The night of terror had taken toll of her, and she was pale as the last star
before dawn.  Yet her white beauty framed in hanging hair shone like some rare thing that had
passed through fire and come out unscathed and purified in the passing.  "Il faut souffrir
pour être belle" is a frivolous French saying, but, like many frivolous phrases, has its basic
roots in the truth.  It was true enough of Christine Chaine in that hour.  She had suffered
and was beautiful.  Dour old Andrew McNeil gave a sigh for the years of life that lay behind
him, and a glance at the face of the other man; then, like a wise being, he said,

"Well, I'll be going on down."

So Christine and Dick Saltire walked alone.

"Let us hurry," she said suddenly, quickening her pace.  "I feel as though something may have
happened."

But all was silent at the farm.  It was still too early even for the servants to be astir,
and the big front door stood open as she and the other woman had left it an hour or so agone.

She left Saltire in the stoep and went within.  The little girls slept peacefully, ignorant
of the absence of their brother.

All seemed unchanged, yet Christine's searching eye found one thing that was unusual--a twist
of paper stuck through the slats of the shutter.  In a moment, she had it untwisted and was
reading the words printed in ungainly letters upon it.

"Do not worry.  Roddy quite safe.  Will come back when his father returns."

"I knew," she whispered to herself, "I knew that joy cometh."  She looked in the mirror and
was ashamed of the disarray she saw there, yet thought that, even so, a man who loved her might
perhaps find her fair. As a last thought, she took Roddy's two yellow roses and stuck them
in the bosom of her gown.  Then she went back to the stoep and, showing Saltire the paper,
told him the story of the whispering thing that had sighed so often for Roddy's safety outside
her window.

"I feel sure, somehow, that, after all, he is safe, and with that friend who knew more than
we did, who knew all the tragedy of the mother and the other two little sons, and feared for
Roddy from the first."

Saltire made no answer, for he was looking at the roses and then into her eyes; and when she
tried to return the look, the weight of the little stones was on her lids again, and her lips
a-quiver.  But he held her against his heart close, close--crushing the yellow roses, kissing
the little stones from her lids and the quiver from her lips. Then he left her swiftly; for
it is a sweet and terrible thing to kiss the lips and crush the roses and go, and a better
thing to hasten the hour when one may kiss the lips and crush the roses--and stay.

So she did not see him again for three days.  But from the faithful McNeil she heard that the
flooded river had been forded and a telegram sent recalling Bernard van Cannan, that a search
had been instituted for the mistress of Blue Aloes, who was missing, that a party of farmers
had been collected to "sit" upon the body of Richard Saxby, and had pronounced him most regrettably
dead from the bite of a black mamba.  Whereafter he was buried in a quiet spot near the hedge
of blue aloes, from which he had collected so many rare specimens of poisonous reptiles and
insects.

On the third day, one of the kloofs on the farm gave up a wig of golden hair, all muddy and
weed-entangled.  The natives hung it on a bush to dry, and there was much gossip among them
that day, hastily hushed when any European person came by.

At nine o'clock the same evening, Roddy was found peacefully sleeping in the bed with Meekie
carefully adjusting the mosquito-curtains over him as though he had never been missing.  In
the morning, he told Christine he had had an awfully funny dream.

"I dreamed I was with my old 'nannie' again--you know--Sophy.  She was all covered up, and
I could only see her eyes looking through holes in a white thing.  She was living all by herself
in a hut.  I didn't stay with her, but with another old woman, but she used to come and see
me every day, and sometimes Meekie used to come, too, and Klaas and Jacoop and all the farm-boys
to talk to me.  The old woman kept giving me some tea made of herbs that made me feel very
quiet and happy, and Sophy told me I should come back soon to the farm when daddy was home
again. She was always covered up with white clothes, and I could only see her eyes, and I love
Sophy very much, Miss Chaine, but I can't say she smelled very nice in my dream.  It was a
very funny dream, though, and lasted an awful long time."

It had indeed lasted three days, but Roddy would never know that, during those three days,
he had been incarcerated in the Kafir kraal on the hillside, outside the aloe hedge.  It was
only when the golden wig was washed up from the river that the mysterious kraal people, silent
and impassive, seemingly ignorant of all but their duties, yet knowing every single thing that
passed at the farm, even down to the use of the false hair (though Bernard van Cannan himself
had never suspected this), gave him back to those who awaited.

If Dick Saltire had not so thoroughly understood the native mind and inspired the confidence
of his boys, the truth might never have been known.  As it was, it lay in his power to relate
to those whom it concerned that a certain woman named Sophy Bronjon, formerly nurse to the
van Cannans, and sent away by them to be conveyed to Robin Island because she had developed
leprosy, had never left the precincts of the farm, but stayed there, brooding over the little
ones she loved.  The kraal people to whom (though a mission-educated woman) she belonged had
hidden and sheltered her.  Through Meekie's instrumentality, she undoubtedly knew all that
passed on the farm, and as surely as she had noted the fate of the van Cannan heirs, she recognized
Christine as an ally and friend, and had warned her as best she could of the dangers that beset
Roddy.  It was she who had sighed and whispered through the closed shutters, frightening Christine
at first, but in the end engendering trust, and it was she who, on hearing of the narrow escape
of Roddy from the tarantula, had made up her mind to spirit him, with the aid of Meekie and
the storm, from the farm and its dangers until the return of his father.

With the disappearance of Mrs. van Cannan and the death of Saxby, the menace was removed and
the child brought back as silently as he had been taken away.  Even he knew no more than that
he had dreamed a strange dream.

Saltire went to meet Bernard van Cannan at Cradock, taking with him the papers left in his
care by Richard Saxby.  There was not so much to explain to the owner of Blue Aloes, as might
have been expected.  The doctor who treated him for neuritis and found him dying of slow poisoning
by antimony had lifted the scales from his eyes, and a little clear thought, away from the
spell of the woman known as Isabel van Cannan, had done much to show him that the sequence
of tragedies in his home was due to something more than the callousness of fate.  Thus he was,
in some measure, prepared for Saxby's confession, though not for the fact that the woman he
had adored to fanaticism had never been his wife, or more to him than might have been an adder
gathered from his own aloe hedge, with all the traits and attributes peculiar to adders who
are gathered to the bosom and warmed there.

He came back to a home from which the spell of the golden, laughing woman was lifted.  The
evil menace that had hung for so long over the old farm was lifted for ever.  Part was buried
by the blue-aloe hedge; part of it, plucked from the dregs of an ebbing river, lay in a far
grave with no mark on it but the plain words, "Isabel Saxby."  While the sad watcher in the
kraal had no more need to walk and whisper warnings by night.

It was the children who laughed now at Blue Aloes, merry and free as elves in a wood.  There
was a glow came out of Christine Chaine that communicated itself to all.  She and Saltire were
to be married as soon as a Quentin aunt, who was on her way, had settled down comfortably with
the children.  Afterward, Roddy would live with them at the Cape until his schooldays were
over.  In the meantime, they walked in a garden of Eden, for the rains had made the desert
bloom, and life offered them its fairest blossoms with both hands.

The Leopard

PART I

It was nine o'clock, and time for the first waltz to strike up.  The wide, empty floor of the
Falcon Hotel lounge gleamed with a waxen glaze under the brilliant lights, and the dancers'
feet were tingling to begin.  Michael Walsh, who always played at the Wankelo dances, sat down
at the piano and struck two loud arresting bars, then gently caressed from the keys the crooning
melody of the Wisteria Waltz. Two by two, the dancers drew into the maze of music and movement,
and became part of a weaving rhythmic, kaleidoscopic picture.

There was not an ill-looking person in the room.  The men were of a tanned, hard-bitten, adventurous
brand; the women were nearly all pretty or attractive or both, and mostly young.  These are
the usual attributes of women in a new country like Rhodesia; for men do not take ugly, unattractive
women to share life with them in the wilds, and girls born in such places have a gift all their
own of beauty and charm.

Many of them were badly dressed, however, for that, too, is an attribute of the wilds, where
women mostly make their own clothes, unless they are rich enough to get frequent parcels from
England. There was this to be noted about the gowns: When they were new, they were patchy affairs,
made up at home from materials bought in Rhodesian shops; but when well cut, they were battered
and worn.  Take, for instance, Mrs. Lisle's gown of pale-green satin and sequins.  She had
been an actress before she married Barton Lisle and came out to the ups and downs of a mining
speculator's life, and all her clothes were réchauffées of the toilettes in which she had once
dazzled provincial audiences.  Gay Liscannon's frock of pale rose-leaf silk, with a skirt that
was a flurry of delicious little frills and a bodice of lace, sewn with little paste dew drops
that folded around her fresh young form like the filmy wings of a butterfly, had Bond Street
stamped all over it, as they who ran might read; but it had not been paid for, although it
was already tumbling into little tears and tatters.  For Gay was no Penelope to sit patiently
at home and ply the nimble needle.  She had worn it to six dances already, and would probably
wear it another six before she summoned up the nerve to present her father with the bill.

Berlie Hallett possessed a London godmother in the shape of an aunt who sent her an occasional
frock, and her white-tulle-and-forget-me-nots was all that it should have been except that
it had turned to an ashen creamy hue, possessed a long tear down the back (unskilfully concealed
by a ribbon sash), lacked about six yards of lace (accidentally ripped off the flounces), and
was minus a few dozen posies of forget-me-nots (now in the possession of various amorous young
men).  Berlie no more than her friend Gay was a sit-by-the-fire-and-mend creature.  They were
real, live, out-of-door, golfing, hard-riding girls, full of spirits and gaiety and joie de vivre.

Berlie, at that moment, was dancing with all her soul as well as her feet, melted in the arms
of Johnny Doran, a rich rancher who had proposed to her eight times and whom she intended should
propose another ten before she finally refused him.  But Gay, the best dancer in Rhodesia,
was not dancing.  Her feet were tingling, and the music was in her brain like wine, and her
heart was burning, and her eyes, though not turned that way, were watching, with impatient
wrath, the door across the room.  But with her lips she smiled at the little group of clamouring,
protesting men about her, and gave out one brief statement.

"My shoe hurts me."

"Which one?" they clamoured, like a lot of school-boys.  "And why? It's the same pair you danced
to the dawn in last week--why should it hurt you now?  And why does one hurt you?  Why not
two?  Who will bet that it won't stop hurting after this dance?" they inquired of one another,
"and who is the man it is hurting for?"

Gay surveyed them dispassionately with her misty, violet eyes.

"Don't be silly," said she serenely; "my shoe hurts."

They gave her up as hopeless and faded away, one by one, bent on finding someone to finish
the waltz with.  Men out-numbered girls by about four to one in Wankelo.  Only Tryon stayed,
lounging against the wall, smiling subtly to himself.

"There's Molly Tring just coming in," said Gay to him.  "You'd better go and get a dance from
her, Dick."

"By and by," said Tryon, with his cryptic smile.  "I'm waiting for something."

Even as he spoke, Gay saw across the room the face she had been watching for.  A tall man had
come into the doorway and stood casting a casual but comprehensive eye about him.  He was not
in evening dress, but wore a loose grey lounge suit of rather careless aspect, and his short,
fairish, curly hair was ruffled as though he had been running his fingers through it.  Accompanying
him was a small black dog with a large stone in its mouth, which came into the ballroom and
sat down. Gay gave one look at the pair of them, and the colour went out of her face.  There
was more than a glint of passion in the eyes she turned to Tyron, who was smiling no longer.

"I'll finish this dance with you, if you like, Dick."

"My shoe hurts," said Tryon.

She flung away from him in a rage and a moment later, was lost among the rest of the dancers
in the arms of one Claude Hayes, a man not too proud to take the goods the gods offered, even
if they were short ratio.  Tryon sauntered over to the doorway tenanted by the man in grey,
who appeared to be delightfully impervious to the fact that he was the only person on the scene
not in evening dress.

"Hello, Tryon!" said he.

"Hello, Lundi!  Thought you meant to turn up and dance tonight?"

"Yes, so I did," said Lundi Druro, looking at Tryon with the blithe and friendly smile that
made all men like him.  "But I forgot."

"I won't ask what you were doing, then," was Tryon's dry comment.  To which Druro responded
nothing.  He was one of those who did before the sun and moon that which seemed good unto him
to do, with a sublime indifference to comments.  Everyone knew what he was doing when he "forgot,"
and he didn't care if they did.

"Lundi meant to get married, but he forgot," was a household jest in Rhodesia, founded on a
legend from home that, at a certain supper-party, a beautiful actress had inveigled him into
making her an offer of marriage, and the ceremony had been fixed for the following day.  But,
though bride and wedding-party turned up at the appointed hour, the bridegroom never materialized.
He had gone straight from the supper-party at the Savoy to the Green Room Club and fallen into
a game of poker that lasted throughout the night and all the next day, with the result that
all memory of the proposed wedding had faded from his mind.  The lady, very much injured in
her tenderest feeling (professional and personal vanity), had sued him for a large sum of money,
which he had paid without blinking and returned to South Africa, heart-free, to make some more.

"Did you pull in the pot?" asked Tryon, who was a poker player himself.

"No," said Druro regretfully; "hadn't time.  I left the game and came away as soon as I remembered
this blessed dance."

Just then the waltz came to an end, its last notes trailing off into nothingness and blowing
away like a handful of leaves on a breeze.  The kaleidoscopic patterns sorted themselves and
turned into a circle of perambulating couples, and Gay and her partner passed the two men in
the doorway.

"Hi!  I want to speak to you," said Druro, whose manners were unique, making an imperious sign
at Gay.  She looked at him with eyes like frozen violets and walked on.  Druro, looking after
her, observed that she and her partner passed out of a door leading to the east veranda.

"H'm!" said he, reflective but unperturbed.  Then he turned to Tryon. "Go and get Hayes away
from her, Tryon."

"That's a nice job!" commented Tryon.

"Go on, old man!" said Druro, kindly but firmly.  "Tell him there's a man in the bar wants
to see him on a matter of life and death.  He'll thank you for it afterward."

Tryon went grumbling through the ballroom, and Druro stepped back out of the front hall into
the street and made a circuit of the hotel.  By the time he had reached the east veranda, Tryon
was gently leading away the unresisting Hayes, and a rose-leaf shoe, visible between two pots
of giant croton, guided the stalker to his prey.  He sat down on a seat beside her.

"Did you mean it when you cut me in that brutal manner just now--or was it an accident?" he
asked reproachfully.

Gay did not answer or stir.  His manner changed.

"Gay, I am most awfully sorry and ashamed of myself.  Will you forgive me?"

The girl sat up straight in her chair at that, and looked at him.  She was too generous to
ignore a frank appeal for pardon, but she had that within which demanded propitiation.

"Have you any explanation to offer?" she asked, and he answered:

"I clean forgot all about it."

She stared at him in exasperation and scorn, her eyes sparkling with anger, and he returned
her gaze with his frank and fearless smile. "M'Schlega," the natives called him--"the man who
always laughs whether good or bad comes to him."

Gay at last withdrew her face into the shadows where he could no longer see it clearly.

"I suppose you think that disappointing a girl and making her lose a dance is nothing," she
said quietly.

"You misjudge me.  If I had thought about it at all, it would never have happened.  But the
whole thing went clean out of my mind until it was too late to dress and get down here in time.
Do you think I would purposely miss such a keen pleasure as it is to dance with you--and the
honour of having your first waltz given me?"

She did not answer, but slowly her anger began to fade.

"I came down here as hard as I could belt, as soon as I remembered."

More anger melted away.

"I haven't even had my dinner yet."

Gay sprang up like a whirlwind.

"Oh, how detestable you are," she said, in a low, furious voice, "with your dinner and your
wretched excuses!  Do you think I don't know what you were doing that you forgot?  Everyone
knows what you are doing when you forget your engagements--playing poker and drinking with
a lot of low gambling men, wasting your money and your time and all that is fine in you!"

Druro had stood up, too, and faced her with the first bolt she flung. They were quite alone,
for the trilling notes of a two-step had swiftly emptied the veranda.  He still wore a smile
on his lips, but its singularly heart-warming quality had gone from it.  His red-brown face
had grown a shade less red-brown, and his grey, whimsical, good-natured eyes looked suddenly
hard as rock.  He addressed her as if she were someone he had never met before.

"You are very plain-spoken!"

"You need a little plain-speaking," she said passionately.

"It is a pity to waste wit and wisdom on an object so unworthy. Obviously, I am past reforming"--his
smile had a mocking turn to it now--"even if I wanted to be reformed."

"Of course you don't want to be reformed," said Gay.  "No drunkard and gambler ever does."

Her voice was hard, but there was a pain in her heart like the twist of a knife there.  She
pressed her hand among the laces of her dress, and all the little paste jewels twinkled.  Druro
noticed them.  They engaged his attention, even while he was swallowing down her words like
a bitter dose of poison.  He was deeply offended.  She spoke to him as if he were some kind
of a pariah, and it was unpardonable.  If she had been a man, he would have known what to do,
and have done it quick. But what could be done with a slip of a girl who stood there with a
folded lace butterfly around her and looked like a passionate tea-rose twinkling with dewdrops?
Nothing, except just smile.  But only the self-control gained in many a hard-won and ably bluffed
game of life (and poker) enabled him to do it, and to say, with great gentleness:

"I'm afraid that I am as I am.  You must take me or leave me at that."

"I'll leave you, then," she said burningly, and slipped past him.  At the door of the ballroom
she looked back and flung him a last word, "Until you are a different man from the present
Lundi Druro."

Druro, entirely taken aback by her decisive retort and action, stood staring long after she
had disappeared.

"Well, by the living something or other!" he muttered at last, and walked away from the hotel,
filled with wholesale rage and indignation. "The little shrew!  Who asked her to take me, I
wonder?  Or for her opinions on my ways of living?  Of all the cheeky monkeys!  Pitching into
me like that--just because she missed her blessed waltz! Certainly it was rotten of me--I don't
say it wasn't.  But I forgot.  I told her I forgot.  Didn't I come straight down here and tell
her?  Left those fellows--left a jack-pot!  O my aunt!  And that's all I get for it--a decent
and reasonable fellow like me to be called such names just because I distract myself with the
only one or two things that can delude one into believing that life is worth living in this
rotten country!  Drunkard and gambler--fine words to fling at a man like bomb-shells!"

Thus it was with Druro, whom all men hailed as "well-met," and all women liked, and all Rhodesia
called "Lundi," though his Christian names were really Francis Everard.  No one had ever called
him anything but Lundi since the day he jumped into the Lundi River to save his dog's life.
He was on a shoot with half a dozen other men, and they had heavily dynamited a portion of
the river to bring up some fresh fish for dinner.  Druro's dog, thinking it was a game he knew,
jumped in after one of the sticks of dynamite to bring it out to his master, and Druro, like
a flash, was in after him and out again, just in time to save himself and the dog from being
blown to smithereens.  "The bravest action he had ever seen in his life," one of the witnesses
described it--and he had been through several native wars and knew what he was talking about,
just as Druro, who was a mining expert, knew the risk he was taking when he jumped in among
the dynamite.

This was the man who was filled with rage and desolation of heart at the words of "a little
monkey of eighteen or nineteen--old dissipated Derek Liscannon's daughter, I thank you!  Nice
school to come to for temperance lectures!  Not that she can help being Derry's daughter, and
not that old Derry is a bad sort--far from it--but as hard a drinker as you could find in a
day's march.  And young Derry hits it up a bit, too, though one of the nicest boys in the world.
I've always said that Gay was the sweetest, prettiest little kid in Rhodesia--in Africa, if
it comes to that--and now she turns on me like this--blow her buttons!"

He strode along the soft, dusty roads that still had a feel of the veld in them, neither looking
nor listing whither he went.  It was a soft, plaintive voice that brought him to a standstill,
and the realization that he was close to the Wankelo railway station.

"Oh, can you tell whether the Falcon Hotel is far from here?"

"The Falcon Hotel, madam?"  His hand went instinctively to his head, but there was no hat upon
it.  "There is surely a bus here that will take you to it," he said, looking about him.

She gave a little laugh.

"Yes; but I don't want my poor bones rattled to pieces in a bus if it is not too far to walk."

Dimly he could see a slight figure swathed in velvety darkness of furs and veils that gave
out a faint perfume of violets, and the suggestion of a pale, oval face.  Her voice was low
and sweet.

"It is not very far," said Druro.  "I will gladly show you the way, if you will allow me."

"That is so very kind of you," she answered softly, and fell into step by his side.

As they walked, she told him, with the simple aplomb of a well-bred woman of the world, that
she had just arrived by the train from Buluwayo and was going on to a place called Selukine
for a week or two. It was not necessary for her to tell him that she was recently from home,
for he knew it by her air, her voice, her accent, her rustly garments, the soft perfume of
fur and violets, and a dozen little intangible signs and symbols that all had an appeal for
him.  For Druro was one of those Englishmen who love England from afar a great deal better
than they do when at home.  He had lived in Rhodesia, off and on, for ten years, and the veld
life was in the very blood and bones of him.  Yet he always spoke of it as a rotten country,
and gravely affirmed that it was bad luck to have to live away from England.

"Give me London lamp-posts," he was in the habit of saying, "and you can have all the veld
you want for keeps."  And he went home every year, declaring that he was finished with Africa
and would never come back.  Yet he came back.  Also, he had built himself a lovely little ranch-house
in the midst of five thousand acres of Sombwelo Forest, where there were no lampposts at all,
only trees and a silent, deep river full of crocodiles.  It is true that he had never lived
there. He only went there and mooned by himself sometimes, when he was "out" with the world.
It had occurred to him, since his rencontre with Gay, that he would go there very shortly.
But now this rustling, softly perfumed lady made him remember his beloved lampposts.  It was
a year since he had been home, and she meant home.

She was London; she was Torment; she was Town.

Curiosity to see her face consumed him.  He felt certain that she was beautiful.  No plain
woman could be so self-possessed and sure of herself, could give out such subtle charm and
fascination.  After the brutal and unexpected treatment he had received at the hands of Gay
Liscannon, he felt himself under some sweet, healing spell.

They reached the hotel all too soon.  The bus, with her luggage on it, had passed them by the
way, and host and porters were awaiting her at the front door.  In the light she turned to
thank him with a charming smile, and he saw, as he expected, that her face was subtly beautiful.

"I hope we shall meet again, Mr.----"  She paused smiling.

"Druro," he supplied, smiling too, "and this is Rhodesia.  I'm afraid you can't miss meeting
me again--if you try."

He, too, as she very well observed, was good to behold, standing there with the light on his
handsome head.  She did not miss the potency of his smile.  Nor, being a woman who dealt in
lights and shades herself, was the flattering significance of his words wasted upon her.

"Tant meiux!" she said, and, in case he was no French scholar, repeated it in English, as she
held out her slim gloved hand--"All the better!"

Gay and a man she had been dancing with came out and passed them as they stood there smiling
and touching hands--a handsome, debonair man and a subtly beautiful woman.  Gay took the picture
of them home with her, and stayed long thinking of it when she should have been sleeping. Long
she leaned from her bedroom window, gazing at the great grey spaces of veld that she loved
so much, but seeing them not.  All she could see was Druro's face turned cold, the rocklike
expression of his eyes when he stared at her as though she had been some stranger--she, who
had loved him for years, ever since, as a girl of sixteen, straight from England and from school,
she first saw him and found in his clear, careless face and fearless ways the crystallization
of all her girlish dreams.  Lovely and spirited, decked in the bloom of youth, she had more,
perhaps, than her fair share of admirers and adorers.  Every man who met her fell, to some
extent, in love with her.  "Gay fever" it was called; and they all went through it, and some
recovered and some did not.  But Gay's fever was for Lundi Druro, though she hid it well behind
locked lips and a sweet, serene gaze.  She could not see him riding down the street, or standing
among a group of his fellows (for other men always clustered about Druro), or even catch a
glimpse of his big red Argyle car standing outside a building, without a tingling of all the
life in her veins.

But she was neither blind nor a fool.  Her spirit brooded over Druro with the half-mystical
and half-maternal love that all true women accord to the beloved; but she knew very well that
he had never looked her way and that the chances were he never might.  He was a man's man.
He liked women, and his eyes always lit up when he saw one, but he forgot all about them when
they were not there, forgot them easily in cards and conviviality and the society of other
men.  Once, when someone had attacked him about his indifference to women, he had answered:

"Why, I adore women!  But I prefer the society of men--there are fewer regrets afterward."

There was no doubt that he exercised a tremendous personal magnetism upon other men--attracted
them, amused them, and influenced them, even obsessed them.  The way he could make them do
things just out of sheer liking for him almost amounted to mesmerism.  It must be added that,
though they were often unpractical, crazy, unwise, even dangerous things he influenced others
to do, they were never shameful or in any way shady.  There wasn't a shameful instinct or thought
in the whole of Lundi Druro's composition.  Gay, however, divined in him that his power of
obsessing the minds of other men had become, or was on the way of becoming, a temptation and
obsession to himself.  She was wise enough to realize that hardly any man in the world can
stand too much popularity, also to see the rocks ahead for Druro in a country where men drink
and gamble far too much, and are fast in the clutches of these vices before they realize them
as bad habits.  It was not for nothing that she was Derek Liscannon's daughter and Derry Liscannon's
sister.

She had her worries and anxieties, poor Gay, though she carried them with a stiff lip and never
let the world guess how often her heart was aching behind her smile.  But, of late, the worst
of them had come to be in the fear that Lundi Druro was going the way so many good men go in
Rhodesia--full-tilt for the rocks of moral and physical ruin.

This was the reason for her attack on him.  She had long meditated something of the kind, though
quite certain that he would take it badly.  But she had thought that his friendship with her
family and herself warranted (she knew that her love did) her doing a thing from which her
soul shrank but did not retreat--hurting another human soul so as to help it to its own healing.
And it had all ended in disappointment and despair.  Nothing to show for it but the picture
of him standing happy and gay, his eyes admiringly fixed on another woman! Perhaps the beautiful
stranger would solace him for the wound Gay's hand had dealt?  Who could she be? the girl wondered
miserably.

But, by the next afternoon, everyone in Wankelo knew that Mrs. Hading, beautiful, unattached,
and travelling for her pleasure, was staying at the "Falcon"; and Beryl Hallett, who was also
staying there, had already met her and prepared a complete synopsis of her character, clothes,
and manners (not to mention features, complexion, and hair) for the benefit of her friend,
Gay Liscannon.

"My dear, she has lovely, weary manners and lovely, weary eyes, with an expression as if she
doesn't take any interest in anything; but you bet she does!" said Beryl, whose language always
contained a somewhat sporting flavour.  "You bet she takes an interest in clothes and men and
everything that's going!  Nothing much gets past those weary eyes. And she is as chic as the
deuce.  Never have we seen such clothes up here.  She smells so delicious, too--not scented,
you know, but just little faint puffs of fragrance.  I wish I knew how to do it.  But I don't
think you can do it without sachets in your corsets and a maid to sew them into all your clothes,
and salts and perfumes for your bath, and plenty of tin to keep it all going!  Blow!  How can
poverty-stricken wretches like us contend with that kind of thing, I'd like to know?"

"We don't have to contend with it," said Gay indifferently.

The two girls were sitting in Berlie's mother's private sitting-room upstairs.  Gay was in
riding-kit and had come to beguile Berlie to go for a canter.

"Oh, don't we?" said the latter emphatically.  "You should just see the pile of men that came
in to lunch here today--just to have a look at her.  The story of her glory has gone forth.
She came over to our table and asked if we minded if she sat with us, and then she wound her
lovely manners all around mother so that mum thinks she's a dream and an angel.  But I don't
cotton to her much, Gay--and I can feel she doesn't like me, either, though she was as sweet
as honey.  My dear, she will nobble all our men--I feel it in my bones."

"Let her," said Gay listlessly.

"She even has old Lundi Druro crumpled up--what do you think of that?"  Gay's charming face
turned to a mask.  "That gives you an idea of her power," continued Beryl dolorously, "if she
can keep Lundi Druro amused.  She is sitting in the lounge with him now.  They've been there
ever since lunch, and he was to have gone out to his mine early this morning."

Gay jumped up from her chair.

"Are you coming for that ride or not, Berlie?  I'm sick of scorching indoors."  There were,
indeed, two spots of flame in her cheeks.

"Oh, Gay, I can't; I am too G. I. for anything."  "G. I." is Rhodesian for "gone in," a common
condition for both men and women and things in that sprightly land of nicknames and nick-phrases.

"I'm off, then," said Gay hurriedly.

"Wait a minute--I'll come down with you!" said Beryl, and, rushing to the mirror over the mantel,
began to pat her pretty cendré hair flat to her head, in unconscious imitation of Mrs. Hading's
coiffure.

The two girls went downstairs together.  Beryl's arm thrust through her friend's.  Gay's horse
stood at the side entrance, facing the staircase.  She instinctively quickened her pace as
they reached the lounge door, but, before she could pass, it opened, and Mrs. Hallett came out.

"Oh, I was just coming to look for you girls.  Mrs. Scott is in from Umvuma, Gay, and dying
to see you."

Gay gave an inward groan.  Mrs. Scott was an old friend of her dead mother's, and about the
only woman in the world for whom the girl would have entered the lounge at that moment.  As
it was, she followed Beryl's mother swiftfoot through the swing door, very upright and smart
in her glossy tan riding-boots, knee-breeches, and graceful long coat of soft tan linen.  In
the matter of riding-kit, Gay always went nap. A ball or day gown she might wear until it fell
off her back, but when it came to habits, she considered nothing too good or too recent for her.

For a moment, Marice Hading looked away from the man who sat opposite, amusing her with apt
and cynical reflections on life in Rhodesia, and shot a soft, dark glance at the straight back
of the girl in riding-kit.  Her cleverly appraising eye took in, with the instantaneousness
of photography, every detail of Gay's get-up, and her brain acknowledged that she had seldom
seen a better one either in Central Park or Rotten Row.  But no expression of any such opinion
showed in her weary, disdainful eyes or found its way to her lips, for in the art of using
language to conceal her thoughts, Marice Hading had few rivals.  What she said to Druro, whose
glance had also wandered that way, was:

"One cannot help noticing what a hard-riding, healthy-looking crowd the women of this country are."

The words sounded like a simple, frank statement; but somehow they robbed Gay of some of the
perfection of her young and charming ensemble, and made her one of a crowd in which her distinction
was lost.  Druro felt this vaguely without being able to tell exactly how it happened.  He
knew nothing of the subtleties of a woman's mind.  He had thought that Gay looked rather splendidly
young and sweet, and, because of it, a fresh pang shot through him at the remembrance of her
scornful dismissal of him the night before.  But, with Mrs. Hading's words, the impression
passed, and he got a quick vision of Gay as just an ordinary girl who had been extremely rude
to him.  This helped him to meet with equanimity the calm, clear glance she sent through him.

"Don't you know the little riding girl?" asked Mrs. Hading softly, but something in Druro's
surprised expression made her cover the question with a faintly admiring remark: "She's quite
good-looking, I think. Who is she?"

"The daughter of an old friend of mine--a Colonel Liscannon," said Druro, speaking in a low
voice and rapidly.  He would have preferred not to discuss Gay at all, but his natural generosity
impelled him to accord her such dignity and place as belonged to her and not to leave her where
Mrs. Hading's words seemed to place her--just the other side of some fine, invisible line.

"Ah, one of the early pioneers?  They were all by way of being captains and colonels, weren't
they?" murmured Marice Hading, still weaving fine, invisible threads.

Druro frowned slightly.  "Colonel Liscannon is an old service-man----"

"May I beg for one of those delicious cigarettes you were smoking after lunch?" she said languidly.
"And do tell where to get some like them. I find it so difficult to get anything at all smokable
up here, except from your clubs."

Thus, Colonel Liscannon and his daughter were gracefully consigned to the limbo of subjects
not sufficiently interesting to hold the attention of Mrs. Hading.  If she could not, by reason
of Druro's natural chivalry, put Gay just over the wrong side of some subtle social line she
had drawn, she could, at least, thrust her out of the conversation altogether and out of Druro's
mind.  This was always a pastime she found fascinating--pushing someone out of a man's mind
and taking the empty place herself--and one at which long practice had made her nearly perfect.
So it is not astonishing that she succeeded so well with Druro that, when Gay left her friends
and slipped out to her waiting horse, he did not even notice her going.  He was busy trying
to persuade Mrs. Hading to come for a spin around the Wankelo kopje in his car, and he was
not unsuccessful.  Only, they went further than the kopje.  About six miles out they got a
glimpse of a solitary rider ahead, going like the wind.  A cloud of soft, ashen dust rising
from under the horse's heels floated back and settled like the gentle dew from heaven upon
the car and its occupants.  Druro was on the point of slackening speed, but Mrs. Hading's pencilled
brows met in a line above her eyes, and one of her little white teeth showed in her underlip.

"Get past her, please," she said coldly.  "I object to other people's dust."

Druro was about to object in his turn, though, for a moment, he philandered with the delightful
thought of getting even with Gay by covering her with dust and petrol fumes.  Unfortunately,
his gallant resistance to this pleasant temptation would never be known, for Gay suddenly and
unexpectedly wheeled to the left and put her horse's head to the veld.  The swift wheeling
movement, with its attendant extra scuffling of dust, sent a further graceful contribution
of fine dirt on to the occupants of the car.  It would have been difficult to accuse Gay of
doing it on purpose, however, for she appeared blandly unconscious of the neighbourhood of
fellow beings.  She gave a little flick of her whip, and away she went over a great burnt-out
patch of veld, leaving the long, white, dusty road to those who had no choice but to take it.

Mrs. Hading did not love Gay Liscannon any better for her score, but she would have disliked
her in any case.  Because she was no longer young herself, youth drove at her heart like a
poisoned dagger.  One of the few keen pleasures she had left in life was to bare her foils
to the attack of some inexperienced girl, to match her wit and art and beauty against a fresh
cheek and ingenuous heart, and prove to the world that victory was still to her.  But when
she had done it, victory was dust in her palm and bitter in her mouth as dead-sea apples. 
For she knew that the wolf of middle age was at her door.

Marice Hading was one of those unhappy women who have drained to the dregs every cup of pleasure
they can wrench from life and fled from the healing cup of pain.  Now, with the chilly and
uncompromising hand of forty clutching at her, pain was always with her--not ennobling, chastening
pain, but the pain of those who, having been overfull, must henceforth go empty.

Small wonder that, weary-eyed and dry-souled, she roamed the earth in feverish search of solace
and refreshment.  Her husband, a generous, affectionate man, condemned by her selfishness to
a waste of arid years empty of wife-love or children, had died of overwork, dyspepsia, and
general dissatisfaction some eight years before, leaving his widow with an income of two thousand
pounds a year, a sum she found all too small for her requirements.

In her fashion, she had been in love several times during her widowhood, but never sufficiently
so to surrender her liberty.  Horror of child-bearing and a passion for the care and cultivation
of her own beauty were further reasons for not succumbing to the temptation to take another
man slave in marriage.  She had contented herself with holding the hearts of the men who loved
her in her hands and squeezing them dry of every drop of devotion and self-sacrifice they could
generate.

But the harvest of hearts was giving out, and the wolf was at the door. She had had very bad
luck in the last year or two.  The hearts that had come her way were as selfish as her own,
and knew how to slip elusively from greedy little hands, without yielding too much.  For a
long time it had seemed to her that the world had become bankrupt of big, generous-giving hearts,
and that there were no more little games of life worth playing.  Now, suddenly and unexpectedly,
she happened upon Wankelo, a green spot in the desert.  Here were girls to act as counters
in the game she loved to play, and here, too, unless she were grievously mistaken, was a man
who had the best of sport to offer. With the hunter's sure instinct for the prey, she recognized
unerringly the big, generous qualities of Druro's nature.  Here was a heart that could be made
to suffer and to give.  Besides, he was extremely good-looking.  She felt a kind of hopeful
certainty that he could offer her jaded heart something new in the way of emotions.

In consideration of these things, she decided to pitch her tent for a while in Wankelo.  Selukine
could wait.  Her projected visit there was, in any case, only one of speculation and curiosity.
She had heard of the place as being thick with small gold mines closed down for want of capital,
and it had occurred to her that the possibility of finding a gold mine cheaply, and a capitalist
for nothing at all, was quite on the cards.  Besides, discreet inquiry, or, rather, discreet
listening to the frank discussion of other people's affairs, which is one of the features of
Rhodesian life, had elicited the happy information that Druro was on the way to becoming a
very wealthy man.  The Leopard reef, report said, was making bigger and richer at every blast,
and the expectation was that it would be the richest thing in the way of mines that Rhodesia
had yet known.  Luck, like nature, has her darlings.

The Leopard mine was Druro's own property and the darling of his heart, next to his dog Toby.
He had taken forty thousand pounds sterling from it in one year and spent it in another.  That
was the time he stayed away a whole year among the lamp-posts, "forgot" to get married, and
came back without a bean.  He declared there were plenty more forty thousands to be got out
of the Leopard, and perhaps there were, but, unfortunately, during his absence the reef had
been lost.  As he was the only man who believed it would ever be found again, he had encountered
some difficulty in getting together sufficient capital to restart the mine, for, of course,
it had been shut down on the loss of the reef.  But, on the strength of his personality, he
had succeeded where most men would have failed.  After many months, operations were in full
swing.  It was said that the mine was panning three ounces over a width of four-six, and a
strike of a thousand feet proved, with the reef at the bottom of the shaft, richer and stronger
than ever.  But Druro himself gave away little information on the subject, beyond admitting
sometimes in the bitters-time before dinner at the club, that the mine was looking all right.
Rumour did the rest.

For a few days after Mrs. Hading's arrival, Lundi Druro disappeared from every-day life in
Wankelo.  It was a way he had of doing, and everyone who sought him at such times would find
him at the Leopard in pants embroidered with great holes burned into them by cyanide and acids,
a disreputable shirt without any buttons or collar, and face and hands blackened beyond recognition
with the machine-oil and grime inseparable from a large mining plant.  He always did his own
assaying, taking both time and trouble over it.  It must certainly be admitted that, if he
knew how to play when he played, he also worked some when he worked.

During this time, Mrs. Hading was busy in many ways, but chiefly in winding her lovely manners
about people whom she decided would be useful to her, and prosecuting a further acquaintance
with Beryl Hallett and Gay Liscannon.  It was quite unavoidable that she and Gay should meet,
however averse they might be to one another, and each accepted the fact with an outward calm
that gave no indication of inward fires.  Mrs. Hading was charming to Gay, as was her invariable
practice while searching for chinks in the opponent's armour.  Her hands blessed, even while
her fingers were busy feeling for the soft spots in the victim's skull.  Gay, on her side,
was pleasant, polite, and interested, while guarding her heart behind a barrier as fine as
a shirt of steel mail.  For, though of a frank and generous disposition, she was not a fool,
and life had taught her a few things about the attitude of mind of most pretty unattached women
toward young girls in the same case.

At eleven o'clock one morning, they were all gathered round Mrs. Hallett's tea-table--Gay,
Berlie, Mrs. Hading, and several men, for 11 A.M. is the "off" hour in Rhodesia, when everyone
leaves his business, if he has any, to take tea in the pleasantest society he can find.  At
Wankelo, most people sallied forth to the lounge of the "Falcon," the club-room of the town,
where morning tea was a ceremony, almost a rite.

Someone had just remarked on the prolonged absence of Lundi Druro when his car rolled up to
the door, and, a moment later he strolled in and came over to the circle of tea-drinkers, cool
and peaceful in their white clothes and shady hats.  Unfortunately, his dog, Toby, chose this
as a suitable occasion for saying a few pleasant words to Gay's dog, Weary.  In a moment chairs
were being pushed out of the way; teacups and scones and buttered toast were flying in every
direction; men were tangled up with a revolving, growling mass of black and brown fur, and
half a dozen feminine voices were crying pitifully:

"Oh, save Toby!"  "Don't let Weary kill him!"  "Poor little Toby, he has no teeth!"

Toby was not the dog Druro had fished out of the Lundi River--to that bull-terrier there had
been many successors, and all had come to bad and untimely ends.  Druro, indeed, had sworn
that he would never acquire another dog; but Toby had sprung from none knew whence and acquired
him.  He was a little black, limping fellow of no breed at all, whose eyes had grown filmy
from long gazing at Lundi Druro as if he were a sun-god or something that dazzled the vision.
He usually carried a sacrificial offering in the shape of an enormous stone culled on his travels,
and, with this in his mouth, would sit for hours, gazing at his god playing poker or otherwise
engaged.  The only time he relinquished this stone was when he had a fight on hand, a rather
frequent occurrence, as his perpetual limp and partially chewed-off ears testified.  For, though
his teeth were worn away by the stone-habit, he had a soul of steel and was afraid of nothing
in the dog line.  Gay's dog was one of those from whom he would stand no nonsense, and they
never met without attempting to settle their feud for once and all.  Druro usually settled
it by banging Weary on the nose until he let go, for the latter was a powerful beast, and if
allowed to work his wicked way, Toby would not have had a hope.  But today, for some reason
known to himself, Druro had an objection to hitting Gay's dog and contented himself with wrenching
Weary's jaws apart, a dangerous and not very easy feat to accomplish.  Weary, however, came
in for several sound kicks and cuffs from other directions, and his mistress was in by no means
an angelic frame of mind by the time she had her champion safe back between her knees, held
by his collar.

"Why don't you keep your wretched little mongrel at home?" she inquired bitterly of Druro.

"It's a free country," responded Lundi blandly, wiping his damp brow and Toby's bloody ear
with the same handkerchief.  "You should train your bully to go for dogs of his own size."

"You know Toby always starts it."

"Well, I don't say he doesn't," admitted Druro.  "But he does it on principle.  He's a born
reformer--aren't you, Tobe?  Picks a scrap with any one he considers a disreputable, dissipated
character."  Toby's master smiled mockingly at Weary's mistress.

"Reformation, like charity, should begin at home," she flashed back, and the instant she had
uttered the words could have bitten off her tongue.  For everyone was smiling delightedly.
A few quarrels and scandals give a zest to life in Rhodesia, and are always warmly welcomed.
No one knew the real foundation of Gay's and Druro's misunderstanding, but it had been plain
for some time that there was one.

"We were talking about getting up a picnic," said peace-loving Mrs. Hallett.  "Mrs. Hading
must be shown a real Rhodesian picnic."

"I want it to be a moonlight one!" cried Berlie.  "They are twice as much fun."

"Yes; but there won't be a moon for nearly a month," someone complained.

"Well, we must have a day picnic now, and a moonlight one next month. We shall want your car,
Lundi."

"You can have it any time.  Where do you think of going?"

"Either to Sombwelo Forest or Selukine."

Everyone agreed that Mrs. Hading must see both of these lovely places.

"I have to go to Selukine anyway, on business," said Mrs. Hading, who had no idea of letting
her plan to motor through that district in Druro's company be interfered with by picnics, "so
please let it be Sombwelo."

"You can have my ranch there as a base of operations," proffered Lundi, "and make my boys do
the work."

They all applauded this except Gay, who submitted that a picnic was not a picnic unless conducted
on alfresco lines, with all the cooking and eating done out of doors by the picnickers themselves.
Druro understood that she objected to his ranch and was sorry he had spoken, especially as
some of the others looked at her with understanding eyes also.  However, she was outvoted,
everyone crying that if she liked hard work and out-door cooking, and spiders and ants running
over the table-cloth and mosquitoes biting her ankles, she could have them, but they would
have the ranch.  To Druro's surprise and relief, she laughed and gave in quite pleasantly.
Being a man, he could not know that, at that very moment, she was dismally deciding that, considering
all that had passed, she could not possibly go to Druro's ranch.

"I shall have to be taken ill at the last moment," she reflected, and could have wept, for
she loved picnics, and Druro's ranch had a secret call for her heart.  But she laughed instead,
and helped, with a cheerful air, to draw up the lists of those who were to supply cars, chickens,
cakes, crockery, and all the other incidentals that go to the making of a successful picnic.
The tea-party had by this time become enlarged to the size of a reception, and with everybody
talking and arguing at once, no one (except Gay) noticed that, after a little quiet conversation,
Mrs. Hading and Druro withdrew and disappeared.  It transpired later that they had ordered
an early lunch and started for Selukine in the Argyle.

And that was only the beginning of it.  In the week that followed, it became more usual to
see Mrs. Hading in Lundi Druro's car than out of it.

Gay, staunch to her resolve, absented herself from the festivity at Sombwelo.  It was no great
exaggeration to plead that she was ill, for her spirit was sick if her body was not.  But no
one spared her the details of a successful and delightful day.  It seemed that Druro had been
a perfect host and Mrs. Hading a graceful and gracious guest. And, from that time forward,
never a day passed in which the two did not spend some, at least, of its hours together.  When
Marice was not by Druro's side in the big red car, sometimes learning to drive, sometimes just
tearing through the air, en route to some mine or other which she wanted to see, they might
be found in the "Falcon" lounge, playing bridge with another couple or just sitting alone,
talking of London lamp-posts.  Sometimes they played two-handed poker, for Marice not only
sympathized but shared with Druro his passion for cards.  Perhaps this drew their hearts as
well as their heads together. At any rate, to lookers-on they seemed absorbed in one another.

Mrs. Hading essayed skilfully and very winningly to draw Gay into her intimate circle, and
it vexed her to realize how she evaded her plans. Berlie, she had already subjugated and made
a tool of; but Gay stood aloof and would not be beguiled.  While perfectly courteous to Mrs.
Hading and whole-heartedly admiring her beauty, she had yet distrusted and disliked her from
the first.  Now her dislike deepened, for she saw that the widow was harming Druro.  She kept
him from his work, and sympathized and pandered to the passions that already too greatly obsessed
him.  There were always cocktails and cards on the table before them.  Druro was drawing closer
round him the net of his weaknesses from which Gay had so longed to drag him forth.  Between
the latter and Lundi Druro there now existed a kind of armed peace which appeared to be based,
on his side, in indifference, and, on hers, in pride.  There was often open antagonism in their
eyes as they faced each other.  She despised him for lingering and lagging at the heels of
pleasure, and he knew it.  Sometimes, when he was not actively angry with her, he thought she
had grown older and sadder in a short while, and wondered if she were having trouble about
young Derry, who was up-country, or whether old Derek was going the pace more than usual at
home.  It must be these secret troubles, he thought, that had suddenly changed her from the
laughing girl he knew into a rather beautiful but cold woman.  Cold, yes, cold as the east
wind!  Sometimes her clear eyes chilled him like the air of a certain little cold hour of the
dawn that he very much dreaded; it was a relief to turn away from them to the warm and subtle
scents and frondlike ways of Marice Hading.

For weeks now, he had divided his time so carefully between Mrs. Hading and poker at the club,
that there was nothing at all left for the Leopard mine.  His partner, M. R. Guthrie, commonly
known as "Emma," sometimes came from the mine to look for him, pedalling moodily into Wankeloon
a bicycle, and always pedalling away more moodily than he came.  He was a shrivelled-up American
with a biting tongue, and the only man in the country from whom Druro would take back talk.

"What is this wine-woman-and-song stunt you are on now, Lundi?" he inquired, late one night,
when he had cornered Druro in the club with a small but select poker-party of the hardest citizens
in the country. Druro gave him a dark glance.

"That's my business," he said curtly.

"Have you any other business?" asked Emma bitterly.  "You don't happen to own a mine, I suppose?"

"What are mines compared to jack-pots?" inquired Druro gravely. "Besides, what are you on that
mine for, Emma?  A decoration?  Or do you think you are my wet-nurse?  I don't remember engaging
you in that capacity."

Guthrie rose, offended.

"All right, my boy--go to blazes your own way!"

"I can get there without leading-strings, anyway," Lundi retorted cheerfully.

"But not without apron-strings," muttered his partner, departing on the faithful bicycle. 
"I dunno what's come to the fellow!"

In truth, Druro hardly knew himself.  A kind of fever had taken possession of him, a fever
of unrest and discontent with himself and all things.  He couldn't remember how it began or
when, but it seemed to him that life, in one moment, from being interesting and vivid, had
turned old and cold and tasted like a rotten apple in his mouth.  And he did not care how many
drinks he took to wash the flavour away.  He knew that he was drinking too much and neglecting
his work, and jeopardizing other people's money as well as his own by so doing, but his soul
was filled with a bitter carelessness and indifference to these facts.  He was anxious not
to inquire too deeply within himself on the matter of what ailed him, being dimly aware of
a something at the back of his mind that could inform him only too well.  He wished to avoid
all discussion with that something, sitting like a veiled, watching figure, waiting for some
unoccupied hour.  Up to now, he had been very successful in dodging the appointment, but he
had premonition that he would be caught one of these days soon--in some little cold dawn-hour
perhaps.

There came a day when Mrs. Hading decided to return the hospitality shown her in Wankelo by
giving an entertainment of her own.  She mentioned her intention lightly to Druro.

"I really must try and arrange to give a little jolly of my own in return for all the big jollies
people here have given me."

In reality, she had determined on something in the nature of "a surprise to the natives" that
would put all their little picnics and dinner-parties entirely in the shade, and duly impress
not only Wankelo but Rhodesia and, incidentally, Lundi Druro.  For, after several weeks of
close intercourse with the latter, she had come to the conclusion that she might do very much
worse than marry him.  More, she actually desired to do so.  The stimulus of his insouciant
gaiety and originality, good looks and unfailingly good spirits had come to be a necessary
part of her existence.  She needed him now, like a bracing cocktail she had grown used to taking
so many times a day and could no longer do without.  Besides, the Leopard was panning out well,
at the rate of a thousand pounds sterling per month, and had the prospect of doing far better.

These were good enough reasons for Mrs. Hading's decision that Druro, as well as Wankelo, should
be impressed by the finished splendour and grace of her "little jolly."  She intended to show
him that, when it came to choosing a wife who could spend his thousands graciously and to the
best effect, he could never do better than Marice Hading.  To which end, she concentrated her
whole mind on the purpose of making her entertainment a complete and conspicuous success.

A little group of those people whom she favoured with her intimacy were called into council,
theoretically to help her with advice, though in practice she needed little of them but admiring
applause.  They met every morning in a corner of the lounge which, by introducing her own flowers,
books, and cushions, she had made peculiarly hers.  Here over morning tea the plans for her
"jolly" were projected and perfected, and here were always to be found Berlie Hallett and her
mother, Cora Lisle, Johnny Doran, Major Maturin, and one or two lesser but useful lights.

Druro, though he did little more than decorate the assembly with his good-tempered smile, was
a most necessary feature of it, and Dick Tryon was more often than not to be found there also,
though whether he came to scoff or bless, no one was quite certain.  His position in the circle
of Mrs. Hading's satellites had never been clearly defined.  He was supposed by some people
to be hopelessly in love with Gay Liscannon, and that supposition alone was enough to make
Marice Hading anxious to attach him to her personal staff.  Besides, he was an interesting
man and a clever lawyer--always a useful combination in a friend.  At any rate, he was one
of those who helped to applaud the programme of Mrs. Hading's jolly, which she eventually decided
was to take the form of a bridge tournament followed by supper and a dance.

This sounds a simple enough affair, but, under Mrs. Hading's treatment, it became rarefied.
A chef for the supper had been commanded from Johannesburg, a string orchestra for the dance
from Salisbury, and exquisite bridge prizes were being sent from a jeweller's at the Cape.
The hotel dining-room was to be transformed into a salon for the card tournament, the lounge
decorated as a ballroom, and an enormous marquee erected for the supper.

The day dawned at last when, all these arrangements being completed, there was nothing for
the select council to do but congratulate each other on the prospect of a perfect evening.
Druro, however, who had for some days been showing (to the initiated eyes of his male friends,
at least) signs of restlessness, not to say boredom, marred the harmony of this propitious
occasion by absenting himself, thereby causing the president of the meeting palpable inquietude
and displeasure.  She missed her laughing cavalier, as she had a fancy for calling him, from
her retinue.  Plainly distraite, she sat twisting her jewelled fingers and casting restless
glances toward the door until certain emissaries, who had been sent forth, returned with the
news that no one had seen Druro since eleven o'clock the night before, when he had gone off
in a car with some mining men.  The widow hid her annoyance under a pretty, petulant smile
and the remark:

"He must be given a penance this afternoon."  After which she abruptly dismissed the audience
until tea-time.

When tea-time came, however, with its gathering in Mrs. Hallett's sitting-room (the lounge
being in preparation for the evening's festivities), there was still no Druro.  Further inquiry
had elicited the fact that the men he had gone off with were from the Glendora.  The Glendora
was a mine owned by an Australian syndicate and run entirely by Australians, a hard-living,
hard-drinking crowd, who, by reason of their somewhat notorious ways and also because none
of them had wives, were left rather severely alone by the Wankelo community.  One or two of
the managers, however, belonged to the club, and it was with these that Druro had disappeared.

Mrs. Hading, whose petulance was not quite so pretty as in the morning, rather gathered than
was told these things, and she saw very plainly that she had not gathered all there was to
tell.  Men have a curious way of standing back to back when women want to find out too much.
But she did not need a great deal of enlightening, and when a man said with careless significance,
"I expect he has forgotten all about tonight," and the other men's eyes went blank, she guessed
what was at the bottom of it all.  She had learned by now what were the occasions on which
Druro so poignantly forgot, and she was furious, not because gambling might be bad for his
bank account or his immortal soul, but that he should dare to have a more burning interest
than herself.

"What about sending someone to remind him?" suggested Maturin.  Marice Hading regarded him coldly.

"He is engaged to open the ball with me this evening.  I do not think he is likely to forget."
There was more than a ring of arrogance in her tone, and, looking straight past him into the
eyes of Gay Liscannon, she added acridly, "Whomsoever he may have thus distinguished in the past."

Gay, who, by some mischance, had happened accidentally upon the meeting, was taken off her
guard by this direct attack, as the ready flush in her cheek clearly told.  A moment later,
she was her pale, calm self.  But Mrs. Hading saw that her arrow shot at a venture had drawn
blood.  She really knew nothing of Gay's quarrel with Druro, and her venture was based on a
remark Berlie had let fall.  But she was aware of a shadow between Gay and Druro that her sharp
and curious eyes had never been able to penetrate, and that infuriated her.  Tryon, lazily
examining his shoes, here interposed a casual remark.

"I am willing to prophesy that what has happened once can happen again--in spite of William
De Morgan."

It was Marice Hading's turn to flush.

"If I do not dance with Mr. Druro tonight, it will not be because he is absent," she said,
with cold arrogance.

"Nous verrons," he answered agreeably.  She gave him an insolent look.  He had declared sides
at last, and she knew where she stood.

Gay dressed for the dance with but little enthusiasm.  Pride made her put aside her longing
to stay at home with her own wretchedness--pride and bitter curiosity, but, above all, a haunting
fear of what the evening might bring forth.  She had a strange premonition that something final
and fatal was going to happen to her love for Druro. It was to be given its death-thrust, perhaps,
by the announcement of an engagement between him and the widow.  Surely, Marice Hading's significance
had meant that if it had meant anything!  This fete was to be the scene of her triumph.  She
meant to brandish Druro as a trophy--fastening him publicly to the wheels of her chariot. 
Strangely enough, what Gay dreaded still more was that Druro would not turn up at all.  She
felt a miserable foreboding about the gang at Glendora.  And it was based on good grounds.
They had once lured her brother Derry out to that camp, and what he had told her of his experiences
there had left her with a wholesome dread and detestation of the Australians.

"I wonder I got out with my skin," said Derry.  "They rooked me right and left.  There isn't
a finer set of sharpers outside of Mexico City--and the whole gang ready to eat you up alive
if you show by the twitch of an eyelash that you are 'on' to them.  There's one pirate there--Capperne--who's
worse than all the rest.  Nothing can beat him. You know he's sharping you all the time, but
he's so slick you can never catch him out.  And it wouldn't be wise to, either."

These were the men that Druro had gone out to play poker with--Lundi Druro, with his love of
fair play and easily roused temper and carelessness of consequences.  It was a heavy and apprehensive
heart that the girl hooked up inside her ball gown.

The "Falcon" was a fairy-land of softly shaded lights and flowers of every shade of yellow
and gold.  Few flowers except those of the hardiest kinds could be got in any quantity at Wankelo,
so Mrs. Hading had cleverly decided to use only those of one colour, choosing sunflowers, marigolds,
and all the little yellow children of the Zinnia family.  These, mingled with the tender green
of maidenhair fern, of which quantities had been obtained from Selukine, massed against walls
draped with green, made an exquisite setting for her entertainment and her own beauty.  She
glided here and there among the amber lights, welcoming her guests and setting them at the
little green-clad card tables, a diaphanous vision of gold-and-orange chiffons, her perfect
neck and shoulders ablaze with diamonds, and her little flat-coiffed black head, rather snakelike
on its long throat, banded by a chain of yellow topazes.

Everything blended in the picture she had made for herself, and the picture was perfect to
behold.  But, unfortunately, the person whom it had been created chiefly to impress was missing.
Druro had not come.

The bridge tournament waned to an end, and the dainty and expensive prizes were awarded; the
guests flowed in a gentle, happy tide to the supper marquee and partook of such a collation
of aspics and salads, and soufflés and truffles, and such a divine brew of cup and amazing
brand of cocktails as Wankelo had never before dreamed of in its philosophy; then back they
ebbed, more happily and hilariously than they had flowed, to the ballroom, where, on the stroke
of midnight, the special string orchestra from Salisbury strung out sweet, tremolo opening
bars of the first waltz.  And Druro had not come!

Mrs. Hading gracefully surrendered herself to the arms of a great man who had been obliging
enough to drop in accidentally by the evening train from Buluwayo, and, floating down the room,
opened the ball.  Her partner was a very great man indeed, both in South African and English
politics, and it was a feather of no small jauntiness in Marice Hading's cap that she had been
able to secure him for the vacant seat at her supper-table and afterward beguile him to the
ballroom and into asking her to dance.  His presence lent a final note of distinction to an
extraordinarily successful evening, and she had every reason to be proud and triumphant--except
one!  But it was that one thing that poisoned all.  No triumph could quench her rage and humiliation
at Druro's defection.

"He shall pay!  He shall pay!" were the words that beat time in her brain, all the while she
was floating and gliding among her guests, full of graceful, weary words and charming, tired
smiles, the only colour in her face showing on her bitter lips.

"He shall pay me my price for this," she promised herself softly, "and it shall not be a light
one."

(Hugh Hading had paid his price for her girlhood; Lundi Druro should pay for the rest of her life!)

Only one thing could put her right with her own pride and before the little world which had
witnessed the slight, and that she would exact--the announcement that he was hers, body and
soul, to do with as she pleased.  That the honour would be an empty one, this evening's déroute
would seem to have demonstrated; he had proved once more that he was no man's man, and no woman's
man, either; he belonged to his sins, and his weaknesses, and his failings.  But, for the moment,
it would be enough for Marice Hading that he should propose to her and be accepted.  Her time
would come later--afterward.  There were many modes of recompense of which she was past mistress,
many subtle means of repayment for injuries received.  Such a mind as hers was not lacking
in refined methods of inflicting punishment.  It would be proved to him, in bitter retribution,
that Marice Hading could not be trifled with and neglected--forgotten for a game of cards!

In the meantime, she eased her anger a little by snubbing Tryon, when he came to claim a waltz
she had given him early in the week.  Looking at him with cool and lovely disdain as she leaned
on the arm of the great politician who still lingered with her, she disclaimed all recollection
of any such engagement.

"You should be careful not to make such mistakes, Mr. Tryon," she said haughtily.

"Soit!  The mistake is mine as well as the loss," he murmured gracefully, knowing very well
what was his real crime.  "But prophets must be prepared for losses.  In olden days they have
even been known to lose their heads for prophesying too truly."  And on that he made a bow,
and returned to Gay, whom he had left in their sitting-out place, which was his car.  She had
danced but little all the evening and seemed lost in dark thoughts.

"Tired?" he asked, leaning on the door beside her.

"No; but I'm sick of this dance," she said fiercely.  "Take me for a spin, Dick."

"Right.  But the roads are pretty bad in the dark, you know."

Gay pondered a moment.

"The Selukine road isn't bad"--she paused a moment, then slowly added, "and the road to Glendora."

It was Tryon's turn to ponder.  The road to the Glendora was the worst in the country, but
it didn't take him long to read the riddle.

"Come on, then!" he said abruptly.  "Shall I get your cloak?"

"No; let me wear your things, Dick."  She took up a big motor-coat and deer-stalker from the
driving-seat and slipped into them.  The rose-pink gown disappeared and was lost under the
darkness of tweed, and the cap covered her bright hair.  She sat well back in the shadows of
the tonneau.

Tryon set the car going, climbed moodily into the lonely driving-seat, and steered away into
the darkness just as the music stopped and a crowd of dancers came pouring out of the ballroom.

The Glendora lay west of the town, and the road to it ran past the club.  As luck would have
it, a man coming from the latter place, and pushing a bicycle before him, almost collided with
them, causing Tryon to pull up short.

"Is that you, Emma Guthrie?" he called irritably.

"Yep!" came the gloomy answer.

"Seen anything of Lundi?"

"Nope!" on a deeper tone of gloom.  Gay touched Tryon's shoulder.

"Make him come, too," she whispered.

"I'm just taking a run out to the Glendora," announced Tryon.  "Want to come?"

"I do," said Guthrie, with laconic significance, and climbed in beside the driver.  They flipped
through the night at thirty miles an hour, which was as much as Tryon dared risk on such a
road.  The Glendora was about ten miles off.  Gay, furled in the big coat and kindly darkness,
could hear the two men exchanging an occasional low word, but little was said.  It was doubtful
whether Guthrie knew who Tryon's other passenger was.

In time, the clanking and pounding of a battery smote their ears, and the twinkling myriad
lights of a mining camp were spread across the darkness.  One large wood-and-iron house, standing
alone on rising ground, well back from the road, was conspicuously brilliant.  The doors were
closed, but lights and the sound of men's voices raised in an extraordinary uproar streamed
from its open, unblinded windows and fanlights.  Abruptly Tryon turned the car so that it faced
for home, halted it in the shadow of some trees, and jumping out, strode toward the house,
followed by Guthrie and Gay.

Almost as they reached it, the door was flung open, and a man came out and stood in the light.
He was passing his hand over his eyes and through his hair in an odd gesture that would have
told Gay who he was, even if every instinct in her had not recognized Druro.  The pandemonium
in the house had fallen suddenly to a great stillness, but as Guthrie and Tryon reached the
house, it broke forth again with increased violence, and a number of men rushed out and laid
hands on Druro as if to detain him.  He flung them off in every direction; a couple of them
fell scrambling and swearing over the low rail of the veranda.  Then, several spoken sentences,
terse, and clean-cut as cameos, fell on the night air.

"Come on home, Lundi; we have a car here."

"I tell you he has killed Capperne!  Capperne is dead as a bone!"

"All right!" came Druro's voice, cool and careless.  "If he's dead, he's dead.  I am prepared
to accept the consequences."

The Australians stood off, grouped together, muttering.  Guthrie and Tryon moved to either
side of Druro, and between them he walked calmly away from the house.  When they reached the
car, he took the seat beside Tryon, Guthrie climbed in next to Gay, and they drove away without
a word being spoken.  The whole nightmare happening had passed with the precision and ease
of a clockwork scene played by marionettes. Now the curtain was down, and nothing remained
but the haunting, fateful words still ringing in the ears of them all.  Small wonder they sat
silent as death.  As the car entered the precincts of the town, Druro said to Tryon:

"I must go to the police camp and report this thing, Dick.  But, first drive to the 'Falcon,'
will you?  I've just remembered that I had an appointment there and must go and apologize."

They drew up at a side entrance of the hotel and Druro stepped out and turned almost mechanically
to open the door for those behind.  So far he had shown no knowledge of Gay's presence, but
he now looked straight into her eyes without any sign of surprise.  He held out his hand to
help her to descend, and, in the same instant, swiftly withdrew it.

"I forgot," he said, and, for an instant, stood staring at his palm and then at her in a dazed,
musing sort of way.  "There is blood upon it!"

Gay could not speak.  Her heart felt breaking.  It seemed to her that, in that moment, with
the shadow of crime on him, he had suddenly changed into a bright-haired, innocent, wistful
boy.  She longed, with an infinite, brooding love that was almost maternal, to shelter and
comfort him against all the world.  But she could do nothing.  Even if she could have spoken,
there was nothing to say.  Only, on an impulse, she caught the hand he had drawn back, and,
for a moment, held it close between her warm, generous little palms.  Then she slipped away
into the darkness, and he went into the hotel, walking like a man in a dream.

PART II

Cold-blooded nerve, otherwise intrepid cheek, is a much admired quality in that land of bluffs
and blagues called Rhodesia.  Therefore, when Lundi Druro walked into Mrs. Hading's ballroom
in his old grey lounge suit, with ruffled hair and the distrait eyes of a man dreaming of other
things, and proceeded, in casual but masterly fashion, to detach his hostess from the tentacles
of a new admirer, Wankelo silently awarded him the palm of palms.  But no one who saw Mrs.
Hading's face as she walked out of the ballroom by his side envied him his job of conciliation.

However, they could not know that her cold looks were for their benefit rather than Druro's.
Banal upbraidings would not bring off the coup she had planned, and she did not intend to employ
them.  When she and Druro were out of earshot in a far corner of the veranda, the face she
turned to him wore nothing on it but an expression of lovely and tender pain that he found
much harder to contend with than anything she could possibly have said.

Contritely he proffered his profound apologies and regrets.  But when all was said and done,
it boiled down to the same old lame duck of an excuse that was yet the simple and shameful truth.

"I forgot all about it."

Like Gay under similar circumstances, she was infuriated by the combined flimsiness and sincerity
of the plea.  But, unlike Gay, she was too clever to give herself away and ruin her plans by
an outburst of indignation.  She only fixed her sad and lovely dark eyes on his and said quietly:

"Is that all you have to say to me, Lundi?  With everyone laughing at my humiliation and disappointment--my
foolishness!"

He flushed at the use of his name, the tone of her voice, the inference in her words.

"I am most frightfully sorry," he repeated, deeply embarrassed.  "It was unutterably caddish
of me.  I can never forgive myself, or expect you to forgive me."

"I think you know by now that I can forgive you anything," she answered, in a low voice.

His embarrassment increased.

"I'm not worth a second thought from any woman," he asseverated firmly.

"But if I think you are?"  There was a little break in her voice, and suddenly she put out
her hands toward him.  "If I cannot help----"

"Mrs. Hading," he interposed hastily, "you don't know what you are saying.  I am a blackguard--a
scamp, unfit to touch a woman's hand."

"Let me be judge of that," she said.

"I have not even told you everything about tonight.  When you hear what has happened, you won't
want to speak to me again."  She suddenly took out a little lace handkerchief and began to
cry.  He stared at her with haggard eyes.  "Do you know that I have killed a man tonight?"
he said sombrely.

That gave her pause.  Her nerves went taut and her face rigid behind the scrap of lace.  Even
her cold soul balked at murder, and her plans of mingled revenge and self-advancement rocked
a little.  She looked at him direct now, with eyes full of horrified enquiry.

"I did not mean to distress you with the story," he said.  "But I struck a man over the card-table,
and they say he is dead."

It seemed to her that she caught a sound of relief, even triumph in the statement--almost as
though he was glad to have such a reason for stemming the tide of her words, and not taking
the clinging hands she put out to him.  Her keen mind was on the alert instantly.  What was
at the bottom of it all?  Perhaps the man was not dead.  Perhaps this was just a little trick
of Druro's to slip the toils he felt closing round his liberty--her toils!  Being a trickster
herself, she easily suspected trickery in others.  Rapidly she turned the thing over in her
mind.  She had no intention of involving herself with a man who had got to pay the penalty
for committing a crime--but nothing simpler for her than to repudiate him if anything so unpleasant
should really arise. On the other hand, in case he was juggling with the truth, she must establish
a hold, a bond that, being a man of honour, he would not be able to repudiate.  The situation
called for the exercise of all the finesse of which she was mistress.  She put away her handkerchief
and looked at him gravely.

"There must be some dreadful mistake."

He shrugged his shoulders rather wearily.

"I don't think so."  His manner inferred, "And I don't much care, either."

"But you must care," she said urgently.  "You must fight it, Lundi.  If you won't do it for
your own sake"--she came a step nearer to him--"I ask you to do it for mine."  He was staring
moodily into the gloom of the night and the deeper gloom of his own soul.  "To make up to me
for the humiliation you have put upon me tonight," she said, almost in a whisper, "I think
I have a right to claim so much."

That jerked him from his dreams.  He looked her straight in the eyes.

"If anything I can say or do will make up to you for that, you will have no need to claim it,"
he said firmly, and, bowing over her hand, took his leave.  People who saw him go thought he
looked more haggard than when he came.  But this was accounted for when, within the hour, news
of the happenings at Glendora sped like wildfire through the town.

Before morning, however, there were certain hopeful tidings to mingle with the bad, and Marice
Hading had cause to congratulate herself on her foresight in establishing her bond.  Capperne
was not dead.  And there was hope of saving him.  Half his teeth were knocked down his throat;
in falling he had struck his head and cut it open; his heart, weakened by dissipation, had
all but reached its last beat, and lung complication had set in.  But the chances were that,
being a worthless, useless life, precious to no one but himself, he would pull through and
live to "sharp" another day.  The doctors, at any rate, worked like tigers to insure this end.
For there was no doubt that, if he died, the consequences must be extremely unpleasant for
Druro.  It was highly improbable that the latter would pay the penalty with his life, but a
verdict of manslaughter against him could scarcely be avoided.  He had struck Capperne down
after a violent dispute in which the Australian, accused of sharping, had given him the lie,
and Capperne's friends, the only witnesses of the fracas, were prepared, if Capperne died,
to swear away Druro's life and liberty.  As it was, they moved heaven and earth to have him
put under arrest--"in case of accidents"--but their efforts were crowned with neither appreciation
nor success, and Druro went about much as usual, careless, amusing, and apparently not unduly
depressed.  Still, it was a dark and doubtful period, and that his future hung precariously
in the balance, he was very well aware, and so were his friends.

The only thing noticeably unusual in his habits was a certain avoidance of the Falcon Hotel
and the society of womankind; and this, of course, was very well understood.  It was natural
that a man under a storm-cloud that might burst any moment and blot him out should wish to
keep out of the range of women's emotional sympathy.  Men's sympathy is of a different calibre.
Even when it is a practical, living thing that can be felt and built on, it is often almost
cold-bloodedly inarticulate and undemonstrative, which is the only kind of sympathy acceptable
to a man in trouble, especially a man of Druro's type, who did not want to discuss the thing
at all, but just to take what was coming to him with a stiff lip.

One good result of it all was that now, at last, his mine was getting a little attention. 
Once more he donned blue overalls and a black face and embroidered his pants with cyanide burns.
And Emma Guthrie was content, or as content as Emma Guthrie could be.  Rumour now said that
crushing would be commenced on the mine in two months' time, and that ten stamps were to be
added to the milling-plant already existing. This looked good for Druro's financial prospects,
however gloomy his social ones might be.  But he never talked.  Emma Guthrie was the man who
did all the bucking about the mine and its future.  Rumour did the rest handsomely, and it
was unanimously accorded that fate would be playing a shady trick indeed on Lundi Druro if,
just when his future was painting itself in scarlet and gold with purple splashes, he was to
be put out of the game by the death of a waster like Capperne.

On the day, then, that Capperne was at last pronounced to be out of the wood, there was almost
general rejoicing in Wankelo.  The little township threw its hat up into the air, and everyone
burst into bubbles of relief and gaiety.  In the club and hotels men valiantly "breasted the
bar," vying with each other in the liquid celebration of Druro's triumph and the defeat of
the enemy at Glendora, and all the women rushed to tea at the "Falcon" to discuss the news
and, incidentally, to see how Mrs. Hading took it, and whether any further developments would
now arise with regard to herself and Druro.

As soon as Mrs. Hading realized that Druro meant to absent himself from the felicity of her
society during his period of uncertainty, she had thought out a pose for herself and assumed
it like a glove.  It was the pose of a woman who withdraws a little from the world to face
her sorrows alone--or almost alone.  A few admiring friends were admitted into her semi-devotional
retreat.  Mrs. Hallett was allowed to read to her awhile every day, and Berlie to arrange her
flowers.  Major Maturin brought her the English papers and any news that was going.  A quiet
game of bridge was sometimes indulged in, but Marice spent much of her time reading and writing,
and a straight-backed chair with a cushion before it and a beautifully bound book of devotions
lying on it hinted at deeper things.  A certain drooping trick of the eyelids lent her an air
of subdued sadness and courage that was attractive.  A pose was always dearer to Marice Hading
than bread, and this one gave her special pleasure--first, because it was becoming; secondly,
because it was a restful way of getting through the hot weather, and, thirdly, because it conveyed
to people the idea to which she wished to accustom them--that she and Druro were something
to each other.  She was no longer to be seen in the lounge.  Having successfully impressed
Mrs. Hallett with her sorrowful mien, that lady had placed her sitting-room, the only private
one in the hotel, at Marice's disposal, and it was there, surrounded by flowers and books of
verse, that she received the few friends she allowed to see her and wrote a daily letter of
great charm and veiled tenderness to Druro.  He nearly always responded with about three lines,
making one note answer three letters, sometimes more.  Druro was no fancy letter-writer.  He
could tell a woman he loved her, fervently enough, no doubt, either on or off paper, if the
spirit moved him.  But he never told Marice anything except that he was all right, and chirpy,
and pretty busy at the mine, and hoped to see her one of these days when the horizon looked
a little clearer.  Brief and frank as were these missives, she studied them as closely as if
they had been written in the hieroglyphics of some unknown language, and had often nearly bitten
her underlip through by the time she reached the end of them.

With the growing conviction that Capperne would recover, her letters to Druro grew more intimate
and perhaps a shade insistent on his over-sensitiveness in absenting himself for so long from
the society of his best friends.  It was natural that, when the good news was definitely confirmed,
she should expect him to present himself, and perhaps that was why she came down to the lounge
that day for tea, instead of having it served in the private sitting-room as usual.

She was looking radiant.  The systematic rest-cure, combined with the services of her maid,
a finished masseuse, had done wonders for her, and a gown of chiffon shaded like a bunch of
pansies and so transparent that most of her could be seen through it successfully crowned her
efforts.

Druro felt the old charm of lamp-posts stealing like a delicate, narcotizing perfume over his
senses as he took her hand and listened to her soft murmurs of congratulation.  After all,
it is true that almost any woman can marry any man if she has a few looks, a few brains, and
the quality of persistence.  Besides, Marice had him safely bonded. The shrouded figure at
the back of his mind that was waiting for some quiet hour in which to discuss the mess he was
making of his life would have to be narcotized, too, or denied and driven forth.

Gay Liscannon came in with a riding party of noisy people, who clattered over, clamouring for
tea and clapping Druro on the shoulder with blithe smiles.  She gave him a friendly hand-clasp
and said:

"Glad to see you're all right again, Lundi."

That was the spirit of all their welcomes.  No one said openly: "Hooray!  You're out of the
jaws of the law."  But they welcomed him like a long-lost brother turned up from the dead,
and immediately began to talk about getting up some kind of "jolly" for him.  It must be admitted
that Rhodesians are always on the look-out for an excuse for a jolly, but this really seemed
a reasonable occasion.  They told him he looked gloomy and needed a jolly to cheer him up.

"A picnic is the thing for you," said Berlie Hallett, who loved this form of diversion better,
even, than flirting.  "Let us give him a picnic in his own district, Selukine."

A thoughtful look crossed Marice Hading's face.

"What about his own mine?" she said.  "Can't we come and picnic there, Lundi?  I have never
seen the Leopard."

The idea was ardently welcomed.

"Yes--the Leopard mine!  We'll take our own champagne and baptize the new reef and Lundi's
future fortunes.  It shall be the great Leopard picnic--the greatest ever!"

It was furthermore suggested that, as there was a moon, it should be a moonlight picnic with
a midnight supper at the mine.

Lundi was fain to submit, whether he liked, it or not.  He wondered a little what Emma Guthrie
would say at having the mine invaded, but personally he did not care a toss.  The narcotizing
spell had fallen suddenly from him again, and life and his future fortunes looked uninterestingly
grey.  He became aware of the shrouded figure tapping for attention at the back of his brain.
Gay was the cause of it, somehow.  He abruptly got up to go, saying he must get back to the mine.

"Emma will want some talking over before he will allow any picnicking around there," he said.
"I think I had better go and start on him right away."

"Oh, don't go yet!" they cried, and Marice Hading looked at him chidingly.  But he had no heart
for their gay arrangements, and took himself off after finally hearing that the date was fixed
for two nights later, all cars to be at the "Falcon" at eight o'clock in the evening and the
start to be made from there.

Only a legitimate reason would have kept Gay away from a jolly given in Druro's honour.  But
she expected to have that reason in the indisposition of her father, who had been ailing for
some time.  She was not sorry, for she felt a shrinking from what the picnic might bring forth,
just as she had felt on the night of Mrs. Hading's dance.

However, fate was not inclined to spare her anything that was due to her.  Colonel Liscannon
was so much better that he could easily be left, and, moreover, an old crony had come in from
the country to spend a couple of days with him.  So there was no chance of Gay's evasion without
a seeming rudeness to Druro.  But she was very late in arriving at the "Falcon," where she
was to be a passenger in Tryon's car.

At the last, it was a matter of ordering something at the chemist's for her father and sending
off a telegram that detained her, and she did not reach the hotel until nearly a quarter to
nine.  Long before she got there, she saw that all the cars were gone except one which she
easily recognized as Tryon's.

"Dear old Dick!  He is always to be relied on," she said, and had a half-finished thought that
she would rather be with him that night than any one, except----

Then she went quickly into the lounge, where, no doubt, he would be waiting, and found him
indeed, but sitting around a little table with coffee and liqueurs in the company of Druro
and Mrs. Hading, the latter looking none too pleased.

"Ah," said she, with acerbity, as Gay came in, "at last!  We were beginning to think you were
never coming."

"But why did you wait for me?" inquired Gay, politely bewildered.  "I thought Dick----"

"Some idiot has walked off with my car," explained Druro.  "So Tryon is taking us all."

"And we are waiting for petrol as well as you," smiled Tryon; "so sit down."  He put a chair
for her next to Mrs. Hading, but that lady, after a swift glance into a mirror on the wall,
skilfully manoeuvred her seat until she was opposite instead of next to the girl.  Gay, in
a little white frock of soft mull, with a cascade of lace falling below her long, young throat,
resembled a freshly-gathered rose with all the fragrance and dewiness of the garden of Youth
upon her.  When Marice looked at her, she felt like a Borgia.  She would have liked to press
a cup of poison to the girl's curved red lips and force her to drink.  In that glimpse in the
mirror, she had seen that her own face, above a delicate shroudy scarf with long flying ends,
rose like some tired hothouse orchid, beautiful still, but fading, paling, passing; and she
hated Gay's youth and freshness with a poignant hatred that was like the piercing of a stiletto.
She wondered why she had been such a fool as to wear that gown of purplish amethystine tulle
tonight.  It was a colour that made her face look hard and artificially tinted.  True, her
bare neck and shoulders, which were of a perfection rarely seen outside of an art gallery,
showed at their best through the mazy shroudings, and her throat looked as if it had been modelled
by some cunning Italian hand and sculptured in creamy alabaster.  Her throat, indeed, was Marice
Hading's great beauty, and her pride in it the most sinful of all her prides.  She spent hours
in her locked room massaging it and smoothing it with soft palms, working snowy creams into
it, modelling it with her fine fingers, as though it were of some plastic material other than
flesh and blood.  She watched for the traces of time on it and fought them with the art and
skill of a creature fighting for its life.  Indeed, when a woman makes a god of her beauty,
it is her life for which she is fighting in the unequal battle with time.

Night was naturally the time at which this reverenced beauty of hers shone most effectively
to the dazzlement of women and the undoing of men.  Day was not so kind.  The South African
sun is ruthless to exposed complexions, and has an unhappy way of showing up the presence of
thick pastes and creams which have been worked into contours in danger of becoming salients.
So, although Marice never wore a collar, but always had her gowns cut into a deep V both back
and front, she invariably shrouded herself with filmy laces and chiffons.  She drew these about
her now and rose wearily.  It seemed to her she had noticed Druro looking at Gay with some
strange quality in his glance.

"If we don't make a move, we shall never get there at all," she said sharply.

Everything was going wrong tonight.  Here she was stuck with two people whom she detested,
after specially planning to make the drive alone with Druro!

"Come along; I expect the car is fixed up by now," said Tryon, and they all moved out.  A black
porter was patrolling the stoep.

"Has my boy been here with petrol for the car?" asked Tryon.

"Yas, sar."

"And filled it?"

"Yas, sar."

They approached to get in, and a fresh annoyance for Mrs. Hading arose. Druro said casually:

"How are we going to sit?"

"You are driving, of course," stated Marice, in an authoritative tone.

"No," said Tryon dryly; "I never let any one handle my car but myself."

Now, nothing would make Marice renounce the comfort of the front seat. Even if she would have
done it for the sake of sitting with Druro, she knew that the jarring and jolting so unavoidable
on African roads would put her nerves on edge for the evening.  So there was nothing further
to be said, but she felt, as she flung herself into the seat beside Tryon, that this was verily
the last straw.  For a time she showed her displeasure with and disdain of Tryon by sitting
half turned and conversing with Druro, who was obliged to lean forward uncomfortably to answer
her remarks.  But she soon tired of this, for the strong wind caused by the car cutting through
the air tore her flatly arranged hair from its appointed place and blew it over her eyes in
thin black strings.  This enraged her, as the dishevelment of a carefully arranged coiffure
always enrages a fashionable woman.  She loathed wind at any time; it always aroused seven
devils in her.  She longed to box Tryon's ears.  But the best she could do was to sit in haughty
silence at his side, while the wind took the long ends of her scented tulle scarf and tore
it to rags, fluttering them maliciously in the faces of the two silent ones behind.  Every
now and then Druro mechanically caught hold of these ends, crumpled them into a bunch, and
stuffed them behind Mrs. Hading's shoulders, but a few minutes later they would be loose again,
whipping the wind.  Once, when he was catching the flickering things from Gay's face, his hand
touched her cheek, and once, when they both put out their hands together, they clasped each
other's fingers instead of the fragile stuff.  But they never spoke.  And their silence at
last began to weigh on the two in front.  They found themselves straining their ears to hear
if those two would ever murmur a word to each other. And if they did not, why didn't they?

"Has he got his arm round her?" wondered Tryon savagely.  (He too had counted on tonight and
the long, lonely drive with Gay, and was in none too pleasant a mood with life.)

"Is he holding her hand?" thought Marice Hading, and ground her teeth. "Has there ever been
anything between them?"

But Druro and Gay were doing none of these things--only sitting very still, and thinking long,
long thoughts.  And whatever it was they thought of, it put no gladness into their eyes.  Any
one who could have peered into their faces in the pale moonlight must have been struck by the
similarity in the expression of their eyes, the vague, staring misery of those who search the
horizon vainly for something that will never be theirs, some lost city from which they are
for ever exiled.

The African horizon was wonderfully beautiful that night.  As they came out from the miles
of bush which surround Wankelo into the hill-and-valley lands of Selukine, the moon burst in
pearly splendour from her fleecy wrappings of cloud and showed long lines of silver-tipped
hills and violet valleys, and, here and there, great open stretches of undulating space with
a clear view across leagues and leagues to the very edge, it seemed, of the world.  As one
such great stretch of country rolled into view from a rise in the road, Druro spoke for the
first time, in a low voice, vaguely and half to himself.

"There is the land I love--my country!"

With his hand he made a gesture that was like a salute.  After all, he was a Rhodesian, and
this was his confession of faith.  The story of the lamp-posts was only a bluff put up to disguise
the hook Africa had put in his heart, the hook by which she drags all those who love her back
across the world, denying, reviling, forswearing her even unto seventy times seven, yet panting
to be once more in her adored arms. All Rhodesians have this heart-wound, which opens and bleeds
when they are away from their country, and only heals over in the sweet veld air.

Gay did not answer.  He had hardly seemed to address the remark to her; yet it went home to
her heart because she, too, was a Rhodesian, and this was the land she loved.

Suddenly they swept down once more into a tract of country thick with bush and tall, feathery
trees.  Here the rotting timbers of some old mine-head buildings and great mounds of thrown-up
earth inked against the sky-line showed that man had been in these wilds, torn up the earth
for its treasure, and passed on.  Near the road an old iron house, that had once been a flourishing
mine-hotel, was now almost hidden by a tangle of wild creepers and bush, with branches of trees
thrusting their way through gaping doorways and windows.

"This was the old Guinea-Pig Camp.  It is 'gone in' now, but once it was a great place--this
old wilderness," said Tryon to Mrs. Hading, and misquoted Kipling.

  "They used to call it a township once,
  Gold-drives and main-reefs and rock-drills once,
  Ladies and bridge-drives and band-stands once,
      But now it is G. I."

He stopped, and the car having reached the foot of the hill that led out of the valley stopped,
too, as if paralysed by its owner's efforts at parody.  It had been jerking and bucking like
a playful mustang for some time past, and behaving in an altogether curious manner, but now
it was stiller than the dead.  Tryon waggled the levers to no avail, then flung himself out
of the car and got busy with the crank.  Not a move.  Druro then got out and had a go at the
crank.  No good. Thereafter, the two made a thorough examination of the beast, but poking and
prying into all its secret places booted them nothing.  As far as the eye of man could see,
nothing was wrong with the thing but sheer obstinacy.  It was more from habit than a spirit
of inquiry that Druro finally gave a casual squint into the reservoir.  Then the mischief was
out.  It was empty; the boy had never filled it.  It was doubtful whether he had put in any
petrol at all.  The two men stared at each other aghast.

"Well, of all the rotten niggers in this rotten country!" breathed Tryon, at last, and, with
the words, expressed all the weight of the white man's burden in Africa, mingled with rage
at his present powerlessness to smite the evil-doer.  Druro grinned.  It was not his funeral,
and, to the wise, no further words were necessary.  But Mrs. Hading had not been long enough
in Africa to be wise.  This final calamity seemed all part and parcel of the mismanagement
of the evening, and she did not care to conceal her annoyance.

"I cannot imagine any one but a fool allowing himself to be placed in such a predicament,"
she said, looking at Tryon with the utmost scorn.

He shrugged his shoulders, dumb with mortification.  Druro, smiling with his usual native philosophy,
now got his portion.

"Is there anything to do besides standing there smirking?" she inquired acridly.

"I should think we had better foot it to the Guinea-Pig."  To do him justice, he had been thinking
as well as smirking, but Marice was in no mood to be just.  "A fellow called Burral lives there
and has a telephone.  He may have some petrol.  All may not yet be lost!"  He continued to
smile.  Not that he felt cheerful--but the situation seemed to him to call for derision rather
than despair.

"Foot it?  Do you mean walk through this wild bush?  Good Heavens!  How far is it?"

"Only about a mile or so, and there is quite a good path.  Still, if you think it better to
stay here in the car with Tryon while I go----"

"No; I'll go," said Tryon hastily.

"No you don't," persisted Druro.  "I know the way better than you do." But Mrs. Hading put
an end to the argument as to who should escape her recriminations.

"I refuse to be left in this wild spot with any one," she declared, and flung one last barb
of hatred at Tryon.  "How could you be such a fool?"

But Tryon's withers could be no further wrung.  He merely felt sorry for Druro.  The widow
was showing herself to be no saint under affliction.  Not here the bright companion on a weary
road who is better than silken tents and horse-litters!

They started down the path to Burral's, Druro and Mrs. Hading ahead. Gay and Tryon following
at a distance too short not to hear the widow's voice still engaged in acrid comment.

"What a fuss to make about nothing!" said Gay, a trifle disdainfully. "I'm afraid Africa won't
suit her for long, if that's how she takes incidents of every-day life."

"I don't think she'll suit Africa," rejoined Tryon savagely.  "Still, I'm not denying that
I am a first-class fool to have trusted that infernal nigger.  I could kick myself."

"Kick the nigger instead, tomorrow," laughed Gay, adding in the Rhodesian spirit, "what does
it matter, anyway?"

The path now became narrower and overhung with wandering branches and creepers.  The brambles
seemed to have a special penchant for Mrs. Hading's flying ends of tulle and lace, and she
spent most of her time disengaging herself while Druro went ahead, pushing branches out of
the way.  Poor Marice!  Her feet ached in their high-heeled shoes, and her French toilette
was created for a salon and not out-of-door walking. Truly, she was no veld-woman.  What came
as a matter of course to Gay was a tragedy to her.

"How stupid!  How utterly imbecile!" she muttered bitterly.  "A hateful country--and idiots
of men!"

"Cheer up!" said Druro, with an equability he did not feel.  Nothing bored him more than bad
temper.  "We'll soon be dead--I mean, we'll soon be at Burral's."

"I find your cheerfulness slightly brutal," she remarked cuttingly, "and the thought of Burral's
does not fill me with any delight."

"I'm sorry," he began, but his apology and the stillness of the night were both destroyed by
a sudden loud crack of a rifle.

"By Jove!  Who's that, I wonder?" exclaimed Druro.  "There's nothing much to shoot about here."
Then, to Mrs. Hading, "Stand still a minute--will you?--while I reconnoitre."  He went a few
yards ahead and gave a halloo.  They all stood still, listening, until the call was returned
in a man's voice from somewhere not far off.  At the same time, a soft cracking of bushes was
heard near at hand.

"It must be Burral out after a buck!" called out Tryon.  He and Gay were still some way behind.
Marice half-way between them, and Druro was apparently trying to disentangle her flickering,
fluttering chiffons from a fresh engagement with the bushes when the terrible thing happened.
The lithe, speckled body of a leopard came sailing, with a grace and swiftness indescribable,
through the air and, leaping upon the fluttering figure, bore her to the ground.  A scream
of terror and anguish rent the night, and Gay and Tryon, galvanized by horror, powerless though
they were to contend with the savage brute, rushed forward to the rescue.  But Druro was there
before them.  They saw him stoop down and catch the huge cat by its hind legs, and, with extraordinary
power, swing it high in the air.  Snarling and spitting, it twisted its flexible body to attack
him in turn, and, even as it went hurtling over his head into the bush behind, it reached out
a paw and clawed him across the face.  At the same moment, a man with a gun came crashing through
the undergrowth, followed the flying body of the leopard into the bush, and with two rapid
shots gave the beast its quietus.  Reeking gun in hand, he returned to the party in the pathway.

"Got the brute at last," he panted.  "Only wounded him the first shot; that's why he came for
you people.  My God!  Who's hurt here?"

No one answered.  Mrs. Hading lay moaning terribly on the ground, with Tryon and Gay bending
over her.  Druro was stumbling about like a drunken man.  "Is it you, Lundi Druro?  Did that
devil get you, too? Where are you hurt?"

"It's Burral, isn't it?" said Druro vaguely.  "Yes; I got a flick across the eyes.  Never mind
me.  Get that lady to your place, Burral, and telephone to Selukine.  Tell them to send a car
and a doctor and to drive like mad."

"My throat--oh, my throat!" keened Marice Hading.  Tryon supported her. Gay was tearing her
white skirt into strips and using them for bandages.  Druro came stumbling over to them.

"For God's sake, get her to Burral's place, Dick!" said he.  "Burral's wife is a nurse and
will know what to do.  Can you two fellows carry her?  I would help you--but I can't see very
well.  I'll come on behind."

Gay helped to lift Marice into the two men's arms, and they went ahead with their moaning burden;
then she came back to Druro, who was staggering vaguely along.

"Let me help you, Lundi.  Lean on me."

He put out an arm, and she caught it and placed it around her shoulders.

"I can't see, Gay," he said, in a voice that was quite steady yet had in it some quality of
terrible apprehension.  She peered into his face. The moon had become obscured, but she could
see that his eyes were wide open with torn lids.  There was a great gash down his cheek.

"Come quickly!" she cried, her voice trembling with tears.  "Oh, come quickly, Lundi!  We must
bathe and dress your wounds as soon as possible.  Leopard wounds are terribly poisonous."

"All right," he said.  "Sure you don't mind my leaning on you?  I hope they get a doctor at
once for Mrs. Hading."

They went forward slowly, he taking curiously uneven steps.  She was tall, but he had to stoop
a little to keep his hold on her.

"There hasn't been a leopard in these parts for nearly two years," he mused.  "The last was
shot on my mine the day we struck the reef--that is why we called it the Leopard.  You remember,
Gay?  Do you think Mrs. Hading is badly wounded?"

"Her throat and chest are very much torn, but I don't think the wounds are deep."

"Poor woman!  Good Lord; what bad luck!"

"Try and hurry, Lundi."

"But I can't see.  Perhaps if I could wipe the blood out of my eyes, Gay--where the deuce is
my handkerchief?"

"Here is mine--let me do it for you.  Sit down for a moment on this ant-heap."

She knelt by his side and gently wiped away the blood.  By the sweat that was pouring down
his face, she knew that he must be suffering intense pain, and was almost afraid to touch the
wounded eyes.

"Is that better?  Can you see now?" she asked fearfully.

"No," he said quietly.  There was a moment of anguished silence between them, then he laughed.

"Cheerful if I am going to be blind!"

The words tore her heart in two, appealing to all that was tender and noble in her nature,
and to that brooding maternal love that was almost stronger in her than lover's love.  She
seemed, as once before when trouble was on him, to see him as a bright-haired boy with innocent
eyes, whom life had led astray, but who was ready with a laugh on his lips to face the worst
fate would do.  And she cried out, with a great cry, tenderly, brokenly:

"No, no, Lundi; you shall not be blind!"

She put her arms round him as if to ward off the powers of darkness and evil, and he let his
bloody face rest against the soft sweetness of her breast.  Leaning there, he knew he was home
at last.  Her warm tears, falling like gentle rain upon his wounded eyes, slipped down into
his heart, into his very soul, cleansing it, washing away the shadows that had been between
them.  Now he knew what the shrouded figure at the back of his mind had waited for so long
to say to him--that he loved this girl and should make his life worthy of her.  He had always
loved her, but had been too idle and careless, too fond of the ways and pleasures of men to
change his life for her.  Now that he held her in his arms, and could feel the blaze of her
love burning through the walls of her, meeting the flame in his own heart, it was too late.
Fate, with lightnings in her hand, had stepped between them, and a woman who held his promise
intervened.

"Gay," he said gently, her name felt so sweet on his lips, "by a terrible mistake I have destroyed
your happiness and mine.  Forgive me."

"There is no question of forgiveness, Lundi," she whispered; "I will help you to stand by it."

He held up his blurred eyes and torn, bleeding lips, and she kissed him as one might kiss the
dead, in exquisite renouncement and farewell. Only that the quick are not the dead--and cannot
be treated as such.  A more poignant misery waked in both their hearts with that kiss.  He
could not see her--that was terrible--but the satiny warmth of her mouth was so dear, so exquisitely
dear!  He suddenly remembered her as she was that night in her little rose-leaf gown with all
the dewdrops twinkling on her.  He wondered if he would ever see her again in all her beauty.

"You were so sweet that night of the dance, Gay," he said, "in your little pinky gown, with
the dewdrops winking on you!"

She understood that he was wondering if he should ever see her again.

"You shall--you shall!" she cried.  "Oh, hurry!  Come quickly!  Let us get to the house and
to help."

The serene and careless philosophy characteristic of him came back.

"If I am to be blind, all right," he said quietly.  "I'll accept it without a kick, because
of this hour."

Once more they stumbled deviously and slowly on.  A light showed nearer now, in a house window,
and presently the other two men were on their way to meet them with lanterns and a brandy-flask.
In a short time, Druro was established in Mrs. Burral's sitting-room, having his eyes bathed
and bandaged by her skilful hands.

"What about Mrs. Hading?" had been his first question.  Marice's low moans could be plainly
heard from behind the curtain which divided the one room of the little iron house.

"Her throat and shoulders are very much lacerated," said Mrs. Burral. "I think we have avoided
the danger of blood-poisoning for you both, as I was able to clean the wounds so quickly with
bichloride.  But she will be dreadfully scarred, poor thing!  And you, Mr. Druro, I'm afraid--I'm
afraid your eyes are badly hurt."

It seemed years to them all, though it was scarcely more than half an hour before assistance
came from Selukine.  All tragedies take place in the brain, it has been said, and poignant
things were happening behind several foreheads during that bad half-hour of waiting.  Marice
Hading, lying on Mrs. Burral's bed, hovered over by that kind woman, was suffering more acutely
in the thought of her ravaged beauty than from the pain of her wounds.  Druro's bandaged eyes
saw with greater clearness down the bleak avenues of the future than they had ever seen in
health.  Tryon was afraid to look at Gay.  He was outwardly attentive to Burral's tale of the
leopard's depredations--chickens torn from the roost, a mutilated foal, a half-eaten calf--and
of the final stalking and unlucky wounding of the beast, rendering it mad with the rage to
attack everything it met; but his brain was occupying itself with a thought that ran round
and round in it like a squirrel in a cage--the thought that Gay was lost to him for ever. 
He had seen her looking at Lundi Druro with all her tortured soul in her eyes.  Now she stood
at the window, staring into the night.

When, at last, the whir of motor-wheels was heard on the far-off road, each of them hastened
to recapture their wretched minds and drag them back from the lands of desolation in which
they wandered, to face once more the formalities of life behind life's mask of convention.
There came a sound of many voices--subdued, deploring, anxious, inquiring. The picnickers had
heard of the accident and were returning in force to succour the lost ones.  It was a sorry
ending to the great Leopard picnic.

Mrs. Hading and Druro were driven to the Wankelo Hospital, and doctors and nurses closed in
on them.  Specialists came from Buluwayo and the Cape, and, after a time of waiting, it was
known that the danger of blood-poisoning was past for both of the victims.  But whether Lundi
Druro was to walk in darkness for the rest of his days could not be so quickly told or what
lay behind the significant silence concerning Mrs. Hading's injuries.  It was known that her
condition was not dangerous, but she saw no one, and, in the private ward she had engaged,
she surrounded herself with nurses whose business it was not to talk, and doctors, even in
Rhodesia, do not gratify the inquiries of the merely curious.  So, for a long period of waiting,
no one quite knew how the tragedy was all to end.

In another part of the hospital, Druro sat in his room with bandaged eyes and Toby on his knees,
gossiping with the friends who came to beguile his monotony, giving no outward sign that hope
had been dragged from his heart as effectively as light had been wiped from his eyes. From
the black emptiness in which he sat, he sent Marice Hading a daily message containing all the
elements of a mental cocktail--a jibe at fate, a fleer at leopards in general, and a prophecy
of merrier times to come as soon as they were out of their present annoyances.  In reply, she
wrote guarded little notes (that were read to him by his nurse), making small mention of her
own injuries but seeming feverishly anxious concerning his sight.  All he could tell her was
that he awaited the arrival and verdict of Sir Charles Tryon, the famous eye-specialist, now
somewhere on his way between Madeira and Wankelo. It was Dick Tryon, who, knowing that his
brother was taking a holiday at Madeira, had cabled asking for his services for Druro.

Poor Dick Tryon!  He blamed himself bitterly for the whole catastrophe on the grounds that,
if he had only looked into the petrol-tank instead of taking a Kafir's word, the car would
never have been held up or the encounter with the leopard occurred.  It was no use Lundi Druro's
telling him that such reasoning manifested an arrogant underrating of the powers of destiny.

"You are a very clever fellow, Dick, but even you can't wash out the writing on the wall,"
philosophized the patient, from behind his bandage, "nor scribble anew on the tablet of Fate,
which is hung round the neck of every man.  If the old hag meant me to be blind, she'd fixed
me all right without your assistance."

But Tryon could not be reasoned with in this wise.  Perhaps it was the shipwreck in Gay's eyes
that would not let him rest.  Druro could not see that; but it was part of Dick Tryon's penance
to witness it every day when he fetched Gay and her father in his car to visit the hospital.
She always came laden with flowers and cheery words, and left an odour of happiness and hope
behind her.  But Tryon had seen what was in her eyes that night at Burral's, and behind all
her hopeful smiling he saw it there still.  He realized that she and Druro had found each other
in the hour of tragedy, and that for him there was no rôle left but that of spectator--unless
he could prove himself a friend by helping them to each other's arms, in spite of Marice Hading.
As for Druro and Gay, they had never been alone together since that night--and never meant
to be.  They had had their hour.

Another of Tryon's self-imposed jobs was to motor to Selukine and bring back Emma Guthrie to
see his partner.  For there were moments when Druro could stand no one's society so well as
the bitter-tongued American's.

"Go and bring in Emma to say a few pleasant words all round," he would enjoin, and Emma would
come, looking like a wounded bear ready to eat up everything in sight.  But, strange to say,
after the first two or three visits, his words were sweeter than honey in the honeycomb, and
all his ways were soothing and serene.  He had nothing but good news to dispense.  The novelty
first amused then exasperated Druro, and he ended up by telling Guthrie to clear out of the
hospital and never come back.

Emma did come back, however, and every time he showed his face, it was to bring some fresh
tale of the sparkling fortunes hidden in the bosom of his Golconda.  The mine was a brick,
a peach, a flower.  Zeus dropping nightly showers of gold upon Danaë was nothing to the miracles
going on at the Leopard.

One evening after dinner, while Druro was sitting alone with his own dark thoughts, a message
was brought to him--a message that Mrs. Hading would be glad to see him.  It appeared that
she had been up and about her room for some days, and was as bored as he with her own society.

Leaning on the arm of his nurse, he walked down the long veranda and came to her big, cool
room, delicately shaded with rose lights and full of the scent of violets and faint Parisian
essences.  He could not see her of course, or the rose lights, but he sensed her sitting there
in her long chair, looking languorous and subtle, with colours and flowers and books about
her.  The nurse guided him to a seat near her and left them together.

"Well, here we are, Lundi--turned into a pair of wretched, broken-down crocks!"

The words were light, but the indescribable bitterness of her voice struck at him painfully.

"Only for a little while," he said gently.  "We'll both be back in the game soon, fitter than
ever."

"Never!"  There was the sound of a shudder in the exclamation.  "How can one ever be the same
after that----"

"You've been a brick!  You mustn't give way now, after coming through so bravely."

"How I hate Africa!" she exclaimed fiercely.

Druro could not help smiling.

"Poor old Africa!  We all abuse her like a pickpocket and cling to her like a mother."

"I don't cling.  All I ask is never to see her again."

"I don't wonder.  She has not treated you too well."

The smile faded from his lips, leaving them sombre.  It was like looking into a dark window
to see Lundi Druro's face without the gaiety of his eyes.  At the same time, their absence
threw up a quality of strength about his mouth and jaw that might have gone unobserved.  He
was conscious of her attention acutely fixed upon him, but he could not know with what avid
curiosity she was searching his features, or guess, fortunately for him, at the cold, clear
thought that was passing through her mind.

"How awful to have to drag a blind husband about the world!  Still--the money will mitigate.
I can always pay people to----"  Then a thrill of pleasure shot through that bleak and desert
thing which was her heart. "He will never see me as I am now."

Yes; this reflection actually gave her pleasure and content in Druro's tragedy.  He, of all
the world, would still think of her as she had been before the leopard puckered her throat
and scarred her cheek with terrible scars.  At the thought, her vanity, which was her soul,
suddenly flowered forth again.  Her voice softened; some of the old glamour came back into it.

"Will you take me away from this cruel country, Lundi--as soon as we are both better?"

To leave Africa, and that which Africa held!  All Lundi Druro's blood called out, "No," but
his firm lips answered gently:

"Yes; if you wish it," then closed again as if set in stone.

"And never come back to it again?"

"That is a harder thing to promise, Marice," he said.  "One never knows what life and fate
may demand of one.  My work might call me back here."

"Yes, yes; that is true," she said peevishly.  "The main thing is that you will never expect
me to come back.  But, of course, if you are blind, it will not be much use your coming either."

The blow was unexpected, but he did not flinch.

She was the first person who had taken such a probability for granted; but he had long faced
the contingency himself.

"If I am to be blind, we must reconstruct plans and promises, Marice. They are made, as far
as I am concerned, conditionally."

"No; no conditions!" she cried feverishly.  "I am going to marry you, whether your eyes recover
or not.  Promise me you won't draw back, if the worst comes?"

She could not bear to lose him--this one man in all the world who would still think her beautiful.
All her soul which was her vanity cried out passionately to him.

"Of course I will promise you, dear, if you think it good enough," he said, "if you still want
me and think a blind man can make you happy."

"Yes; I want you blind," she answered strangely.  "You can make me very happy."  Then she reached
for the bell-button and pressed it.  Her nerves were giving out, and she needed to be alone.
But the future was arranged for now, and she could rest.  She made a subtle sign to the entering
nurse, and Druro never guessed that he was being evicted by any one but the latter in her professional
capacity.  To be deceived is doubtless part of the terrible fate of the blind.

She had succeeded in deceiving Druro in more than this.  Confirmed now in the belief that he
was necessary to her happiness and that to fulfil his promises to her was the only way of honour,
he knew that he must thrust the thought of Gay out of his mind for ever.  Even in the grey
misery of that decision, he could still feel a glow of gratitude toward the woman who loved
him enough to face the future with a blind man. Because his mind was a jumble of emotions fermented
by the humility born of sitting in darkness and affliction, for many days he spoke a little
of it to Tryon, who came, as was now his custom, to help pass away the evening.  So Tryon was
the first person in Wankelo to hear of Marice Hading's greatness of heart--and the last person
in the world to believe in it.  But he did not say so to Druro.  He had long ago sized up Marice
Hading's subtle mind and shallow soul, and it was not very difficult for him to read this riddle
of new-born nobility.  Druro and his rich mine were to pay the price of her lost beauty.  What
booted it if he were blind?  So much the better for the vanity of a woman who worshipped her
beauty as Mrs. Hading had done.  It was certain that, blind or whole, she meant to hold Druro
to his bond, and that she would eventually make hay with his life, Tryon had not the faintest
doubt. Destruction for Druro--shipwreck for Gay!  A woman's cruel, skilful little hands had
crumpled up their happiness like so much waste paper, and Tryon, with the best will in the
world, saw no clear way to save it from being pitched to the burning.  The best he could do,
for that evening at least, was to shake Druro's hand warmly at parting and tell him that he
was a deuced lucky fellow.

