SOME TURNS OF THOUGHT IN MODERN PHILOSOPHY

Five Essays

BY

GEORGE SANTAYANA

NEW YORK CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS 1933

Published under the auspices of THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF LITERATURE

PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN

CONTENTS

I. Locke and the Frontiers of Common Sense                      page 1

Paper read before the Royal Society of Literature on the occasion of the Tercentenary of the
birth of John Locke. With some Supplementary Notes

II. Fifty Years of British Idealism                                 48

Reflections on the republication of Bradley's Ethical Studies

III. Revolutions in Science                                         71

Some Comments on the Theory of Relativity and the new Physics

IV. A Long Way Round to Nirvana                                     87

Development of a suggestion found in Freud's Beyond the Pleasure Principle

V. The Prestige of the Infinite                                    102

A review of Julien Benda's Sketch of a consistent theory of the relations between God and the World

The Author's acknowledgments are due to the Editors of The New Adelphi, The Dial, and the Journal
of Philosophy, in which one or more of these Essays originally appeared.

I

LOCKE AND THE FRONTIERS OF COMMON SENSE[1]

A good portrait of Locke would require an elaborate background. His is not a figure to stand
statuesquely in a void: the pose might not seem grand enough for bronze or marble. Rather he
should be painted in the manner of the Dutch masters, in a sunny interior, scrupulously furnished
with all the implements of domestic comfort and philosophic enquiry: the Holy Bible open majestically
before him, and beside it that other revelation--the terrestrial globe. His hand might be pointing
to a microscope set for examining the internal constitution of a beetle: but for the moment
his eye should be seen wandering through the open window, to admire the blessings of thrift
and liberty manifest in the people so worthily busy in the market-place, wrong as many a monkish
notion might be that still troubled their poor heads. From them his enlarged thoughts would
easily pass to the stout carved ships in the river beyond, intrepidly setting sail for the
Indies, or for savage America. Yes, he too had travelled, and not only in thought. He knew
how many strange nations and false religions lodged in this round earth, itself but a speck
in the universe. There were few ingenious authors that he had not perused, or philosophical
instruments that he had not, as far as possible, examined and tested; and no man better than
he could understand and prize the recent discoveries of "the incomparable Mr Newton". Nevertheless,
a certain uneasiness in that spare frame, a certain knitting of the brows in that aquiline
countenance, would suggest that in the midst of their earnest eloquence the philosopher's thoughts
might sometimes come to a stand. Indeed, the visible scene did not exhaust the complexity of
his problem; for there was also what he called "the scene of ideas", immaterial and private,
but often more crowded and pressing than the public scene. Locke was the father of modern psychology,
and the birth of this airy monster, this half-natural changeling, was not altogether easy or
fortunate.[2]

I wish my erudition allowed me to fill in this picture as the subject deserves, and to trace
home the sources of Locke's opinions, and their immense influence. Unfortunately, I can consider
him--what is hardly fair--only as a pure philosopher: for had Locke's mind been more profound,
it might have been less influential. He was in sympathy with the coming age, and was able to
guide it: an age that confided in easy, eloquent reasoning, and proposed to be saved, in this
world and the next, with as little philosophy and as little religion as possible. Locke played
in the eighteenth century very much the part that fell to Kant in the nineteenth. When quarrelled
with, no less than when embraced, his opinions became a point of departure for universal developments.
The more we look into the matter, the more we are impressed by the patriarchal dignity of Locke's
mind. Father of psychology, father of the criticism of knowledge, father of theoretical liberalism,
god-father at least of the American political system, of Voltaire and the Encyclopaedia, at
home he was the ancestor of that whole school of polite moderate opinion which can unite liberal
Christianity with mechanical science and with psychological idealism. He was invincibly rooted
in a prudential morality, in a rationalised Protestantism, in respect for liberty and law:
above all he was deeply convinced, as he puts it, "that the handsome conveniences of life are
better than nasty penury". Locke still speaks, or spoke until lately, through many a modern
mind, when this mind was most sincere; and two hundred years before Queen Victoria he was a
Victorian in essence.

A chief element in this modernness of Locke was something that had hardly appeared before in
pure philosophy, although common in religion: I mean, the tendency to deny one's own presuppositions--not
by accident or inadvertently, but proudly and with an air of triumph. Presuppositions are imposed
on all of us by life itself: for instance the presupposition that life is to continue, and
that it is worth living. Belief is born on the wing and awakes to many tacit commitments. Afterwards,
in reflection, we may wonder at finding these presuppositions on our hands and, being ignorant
of the natural causes which have imposed them on the animal mind, we may be offended at them.
Their arbitrary and dogmatic character will tempt us to condemn them, and to take for granted
that the analysis which undermines them is justified, and will prove fruitful. But this critical
assurance in its turn seems to rely on a dubious presupposition, namely, that human opinion
must always evolve in a single line, dialectically, providentially, and irresistibly. It is
at least conceivable that the opposite should sometimes be the case. Some of the primitive
presuppositions of human reason might have been correct and inevitable, whilst the tendency
to deny them might have sprung from a plausible misunderstanding, or the exaggeration of a
half-truth: so that the critical opinion itself, after destroying the spontaneous assumptions
on which it rested, might be incapable of subsisting.

In Locke the central presuppositions, which he embraced heartily and without question, were
those of common sense. He adopted what he calls a "plain, historical method", fit, in his own
words, "to be brought into well-bred company and polite conversation". Men, "barely by the
use of their natural faculties", might attain to all the knowledge possible or worth having.

Resting on these clear perceptions, the natural philosophy of Locke falls into two parts, one
strictly physical and scientific, the other critical and psychological. In respect to the composition
of matter, Locke accepted the most advanced theory of his day, which happened to be a very
old one: the theory of Democritus that the material universe contains nothing but a multitude
of solid atoms coursing through infinite space: but Locke added a religious note to this materialism
by suggesting that infinite space, in its sublimity, must be an attribute of God. He also believed
what few materialists would venture to assert, that if we could thoroughly examine the cosmic
mechanism we should see the demonstrable necessity of every complication that ensues, even
of the existence and character of mind: for it was no harder for God to endow matter with the
power of thinking than to endow it with the power of moving.

In the atomic theory we have a graphic image asserted to describe accurately, or even exhaustively,
the intrinsic constitution of things, or their primary qualities. Perhaps, in so far as physical
hypotheses must remain graphic at all, it is an inevitable theory. It was first suggested by
the wearing out and dissolution of all material objects, and by the specks of dust floating
in a sunbeam; and it is confirmed, on an enlarged scale, by the stellar universe as conceived
by modern astronomy. When today we talk of nuclei and electrons, if we imagine them at all,
we imagine them as atoms. But it is all a picture, prophesying what we might see through a
sufficiently powerful microscope; the important philosophical question is the one raised by
the other half of Locke's natural philosophy, by optics and the general criticism of perception.
How far, if at all, may we trust the images in our minds to reveal the nature of external things?

On this point the doctrine of Locke, through Descartes,[3] was also derived from Democritus.
It was that all the sensible qualities of things, except position, shape, solidity, number
and motion, were only ideas in us, projected and falsely regarded as lodged in things. In the
things, these imputed or secondary qualities were simply powers, inherent in their atomic constitution,
and calculated to excite sensations of that character in our bodies. This doctrine is readily
established by Locke's plain historical method, when applied to the study of rainbows, mirrors,
effects of perspective, dreams, jaundice, madness, and the will to believe: all of which go
to convince us that the ideas which we impulsively assume to be qualities of objects are always,
in their seat and origin, evolved in our own heads.

These two parts of Locke's natural philosophy, however, are not in perfect equilibrium. All
the feelings and ideas of an animal must be equally conditioned by his organs and passions,[4]
and he cannot be aware of what goes on beyond him, except as it affects his own life.[5] How
then could Locke, or could Democritus, suppose that his ideas of space and atoms were less
human, less graphic, summary, and symbolic, than his sensations of sound or colour? The language
of science, no less than that of sense, should have been recognised to be a human language;
and the nature of anything existent collateral with ourselves, be that collateral existence
material or mental, should have been confessed to be a subject for faith and for hypothesis,
never, by any possibility, for absolute or direct intuition.

There is no occasion to take alarm at this doctrine as if it condemned us to solitary confinement,
and to ignorance of the world in which we live. We see and know the world through our eyes
and our intelligence, in visual and in intellectual terms: how else should a world be seen
or known which is not the figment of a dream, but a collateral power, pressing and alien? In
the cognisance which an animal may take of his surroundings--and surely all animals take such
cognisance--the subjective and moral character of his feelings, on finding himself so surrounded,
does not destroy their cognitive value. These feelings, as Locke says, are signs: to take them
for signs is the essence of intelligence. Animals that are sensitive physically are also sensitive
morally, and feel the friendliness or hostility which surrounds them. Even pain and pleasure
are no idle sensations, satisfied with their own presence: they violently summon attention
to the objects that are their source. Can love or hate be felt without being felt towards something--something
near and potent, yet external, uncontrolled, and mysterious? When I dodge a missile or pick
a berry, is it likely that my mind should stop to dwell on its pure sensations or ideas without
recognising or pursuing something material? Analytic reflection often ignores the essential
energy of mind, which is originally more intelligent than sensuous, more appetitive and dogmatic
than aesthetic. But the feelings and ideas of an active animal cannot help uniting internal
moral intensity with external physical reference; and the natural conditions of sensibility
require that perceptions should owe their existence and quality to the living organism with
its moral bias, and that at the same time they should be addressed to the external objects
which entice that organism or threaten it.

All ambitions must be defeated when they ask for the impossible. The ambition to know is not
an exception; and certainly our perceptions cannot tell us how the world would look if nobody
saw it, or how valuable it would be if nobody cared for it. But our perceptions, as Locke again
said, are sufficient for our welfare and appropriate to our condition. They are not only a
wonderful entertainment in themselves, but apart from their sensuous and grammatical quality,
by their distribution and method of variation, they may inform us most exactly about the order
and mechanism of nature. We see in the science of today how completely the most accurate knowledge--proved
to be accurate by its application in the arts--may shed every pictorial element, and the whole
language of experience, to become a pure method of calculation and control. And by a pleasant
compensation, our aesthetic life may become freer, more self-sufficing, more humbly happy in
itself: and without trespassing in any way beyond the modesty of nature, we may consent to
be like little children, chirping our human note; since the life of reason in us may well become
science in its validity, whilst remaining poetry in its texture.

I think, then, that by a slight re-arrangement of Locke's pronouncements in natural philosophy,
they could be made inwardly consistent, and still faithful to the first presuppositions of
common sense, although certainly far more chastened and sceptical than impulsive opinion is
likely to be in the first instance.

There were other presuppositions in the philosophy of Locke besides his fundamental naturalism;
and in his private mind probably the most important was his Christian faith, which was not
only confident and sincere, but prompted him at times to high speculation. He had friends among
the Cambridge Platonists, and he found in Newton a brilliant example of scientific rigour capped
with mystical insights. Yet if we consider Locke's philosophical position in the abstract,
his Christianity almost disappears. In form his theology and ethics were strictly rationalistic;
yet one who was a Deist in philosophy might remain a Christian in religion. There was no great
harm in a special revelation, provided it were simple and short, and left the broad field of
truth open in almost every direction to free and personal investigation. A free man and a good
man would certainly never admit, as coming from God, any doctrine contrary to his private reason
or political interest; and the moral precepts actually vouchsafed to us in the Gospels were
most acceptable, seeing that they added a sublime eloquence to maxims which sound reason would
have arrived at in any case.

